VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1893.			NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Jewels—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. World's Con-
gress of Women under the Auspicies of the Wo-
man's Branch of the World's Congress Auxiliary
—Rachel Foster Avery. A Birthday Surprise—
H. L. W.	U. W. P. Club—C. C. R. Wells. The
Land of Montezuma—Francesco. About the
World's Fair. Springville W. S. A.—A Subscrib-
er. R. S. Report—Laura Lewis. Savonarola.
A Golden Wedding—Clarissa Wilhelm. Altera-
tions of the Octoroon—Emily B. Spencer. Notes
and News; Items from St. George—Mollie Judd.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff's Birthday.
The Salt Lake Temple. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Josephine Spencer.—S. E. R.
Salt Lake—Lillie T. Freeze. Woman Arise—L.
L. Dalton. A Sister's Tribute—Aretta Young.


TO JOSEPHINE SPENCER.

I have read your "Green Street" o'er and o'er,
And backward turn times page once more;
To follow with you, while you trace,
Each well known spot in that dear place.

The Iron King there rules the day,
Swept trees and flowers from out his way,
For the home song, the engine's shriek,
Thus doth the mighty crush the weak.

I too have trod that same green street,
Often at morn and night to meet,
One dear to you and dear to me
Aurelia, still thy form I see.

On the green grass by the broken wall,
By the deep pond where the moon-beams fall,
Where oft we sat to tell of homes and fears,
Of joys and sorrows, in those bye gone years.

Again I stand by Jeddie's bed of pain,
And see his face and hear his voice again,
As on that ne'er to be forgotten day,
When his Spirit passed from earth away.

I see again the father kind and true,
Now little Johnny comes before my view,
Holding that father’s hand and may it guide his
	still,
And help him to be faithful to Jehovah's will.

I see the mother stricken in her grief,
When the dark Angel gathered in her sheaf,
Bearing them on unto the "Better Land,"
But leaving oh! so lone her household ba nd.

I see a little one dark eyed and shy,
Timid and silent still, where strangers nigh,
Josie we called her, now we read her name,
High among those of sweet poetic fame.

There comes a glad reunion by and bye,
Of hearts and homes and every kindred tie,
Oh! speed the day when we our loved ones meet,
And walk together in our God's Green Street.
							S. E. R.


SALT LAKE

                   	 A REVERIE.
AFAR in the distance I see thy waves,
	Gliding anear with their snowy crest,
Then creeping up to thy sandy shore,
	Silently pillow their heads on thy breast.

How gentle and soothing their musical swell,
	How I love the lull of each measured strain,
Sweeping along with enchanting grace,
	Singing the while a soft refrain.


Nor am I the only lover I ween,
	Admiring these circles one by one,
For the fleecy clouds are hovering near,
	And their shining heads are kissed by the sun.

And the peak of that lofty mountain,
	In the strength of its towering pride,
That mystic sentinel, tried and true,
	Would claim thee his charming bride.

Through the morning mist a rainbow deigned,
	To bend o’er thee in love’s caress,
While white plumed birds confidingly spread,
	Their wings o’er thy heaving breast.

For ages untold have the moon beams danced’
	To thy rippling music soft and light,
And how you are loved by the twinkling stars,
	And wooed by the queen of night!
						LILLIE T. FREEZE.


JEWELS.

			RICH AND RARE-
	THE gems I allude too, are those our
Father in Heaven has bestowed upon us;
they are richer, and rarer, than any the
wealthier mines of earth can produce.
They are many and varied and, to those
who possess, all, or even a few of them,
priceless. The most worthy among them
is Existence.
	Life, is the highest of earth’s good, it is
so lusciously sweet, and the world is so
beautifully, and lovingly, composed. The
great pulse of nature finds a ready response
in the human breast, which often
shouts for joy and is answered by a thous-
and echoes and a thousand songs sweeter
than those of the Nightingale. 
	We see the earth awake from slumber
and she trembles for joy. Her flowers are
hymns, with which in her inspiration she
greets the Sun. Oh, world, hate me, mock
me, but let me live! All vigorous souls
love life. Even old age is beautiful—beau-
tiful as the slow coming, mellow, autumn
after a rich and glorious summer.
	It is beautiful, but not the most beautiful,
there is another life, rough and thorny,
trodden with bleeding feet, the life of
which the cross is the symbol, and which
the grave gapes to finish before the victory
is won, and this is the highest life of man.
Among all the nations of the earth there is
none whose lives have been other than
this, one and all, their fate has been the
same, all have drank of the same bitter cup.
	The next in value is love, pure unselfish
love, the most God like of which is mater-
nal love. It is beyond all philosophy to
solve the wonderful, and beautiful mystery
of maternal love, which is so common and
yet so sublime. A child may come into
the world blemished or deformed, it matters
not to this heavenly passion of motherhood;
it is her child, that is all sufficient.
	The new born human being, meets upon
the threshold of life a love inexhaustible in
its tenderness which makes its cradle like
the couch of a prince. Love is the oldest
instinct of creation, and is descended from
the Maker’s own Word. It has been truly
said by one of the poets.
	“The hand that made us left no trace

[column two]
divine, in him who lives on earth, and
loveth not,” Scott says “Love is Heaven
and Heaven is love.”
	There are two which sparkle and flash in
the diadems of thought, the one is Truth,
the other Poetry. When the soul comes
into living contact with Truth, or Fact,
there springs up in it a thrill of joy, a glow
of emotion, and the expression of that
thrill, that glow is Poetry. The range of
poetic emotion is as wide as the range of
human thought, as of existence, Poetry is
the bloom, and fragrance, of human
thoughts, human knowledge, emotions,
passions, and language. It is the ambrosia
served at the banquet of human life.
	The meeting of the human soul with
truth is so delightful, they are so akin,
that when they recognize each other, the
result is this thrill of joy, this pure and
high emotion, this suggestion of the
nature of the soul, and its origin.
	I have only space, or time, in a paper like
this to emphasize a few of the gems our
Father has given us for our adornment, yet
there are many well worth examining, and
considering, both for their beauty and the
influence they have upon our lives, among
these, and in the joint ranks are, Holiness,
Faith, Hope, Charity, Benevolence,
Literary Taste, and Sorrow. Is sorrow a
gem, you will ask doubtless! I answer ‘yes’!
for it is the substance of our natural life,
and may almost be called the natural ca-
pability of the supernatural.
	No poetry finds its way into a human
mind, unless it has a burden of sorrow in it.
	All that is touching, pathetic, or dramatic
in life has to do with sorrow. The power
of art is in the sorrowful. To glorify
sorrow is one of the functions of song, of
sculpture, and painting.
	Sorrow is the poetry of a creation which
has fallen, of a race which is in exile, in a
vale of tears, closed in at the end by a
sunless defile which we call death. And is
not our redemption the outcome of sorrow?
God gave us both tears and laughter.
Laughter enables mirth to breathe freely,
so tears enable sorrow to vent itself
patiently. Sorrow is a condition of time,
and joy is the condition of eternity. Sor-
row lies in exile from God, joy in union
with Him. In heaven, it is said, joy will
cast out sorrow, and yet there is not a lot
on earth from which sorrow has been able
altogether to banish joy.
				M. A. Y. GREENHALH,


THE Democratic girls of Mt. Holyoke
College seem to have entered into politics
as far as they can. Though in the minority
among the students, they are overflowing
with enthusiasm. They held a grand rally
when Cleveland’s election was declared,
and they held an inaugural banquet and
rally on the evening of March 4th. En-
thusiasm ran high; many toasts were res-
ponded to, and Mrs. Cleveland and Baby
Ruth were not forgotton.
	THE Arizona House of Representatives
has passed a bill giving full suffrage to wo-
men, by a vote of 16 to 7.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORLD’S CONGRESS OF WOMEN
Under the Auspices of tlte Woman's
Bracnh of the Worlds Congress Aux-
liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	One of the interesting subjects on the
Programme of this Congress will be “The
Solidarity of Human Interests," and it
will be treated of by an interesting woman,
Madame Isabel Bogelot, of France.
	At the International Council of Women
held in Washington in 1888, Madame Boge-
lot was the representative of  "The Work
for the Women Liberated from the Prison
of St. Lazare," a philanthropic organization
of which she is the Directress General in
Paris, and to which she gives her life work.
	All those who attended the session of the
international Council remember well the
charming face and naive expression of this
child-like woman of middle age, with gray
hair, fast whitening, dark bright eyes and
a fresh complexion, of middle stature, with
quick impulsive gestures,— thoroughly a
French woman and thoroughly lovable she
was to all who came to know her. She will
be an attraction at the sessions of the Wo-
man’s Congress. Madame Bogelot holds
the office of Treasurer of the permanent
International Council of Women which was
organized at Washington in 1888.
	The Committee of Arrangements having
this Congress in charge has already secured
some fine speakers for the sessions in the
two large auditoriums of the Art Palace.
	These Halls seat each about twenty-five
hundred people, an audience which may
reasonably hope to hear the various women
who will undertake to address them. In-
deed, this question of ability to be easily
heard in a hall of this size, has been a
factor in the decisions of the Sub-Committee
on Programme, and the speakers have been
selected with a view to their ability, not
only to say wise and witty things, but to
say them in tones easily audible to interested
audiences.
	Among the topics and speakers already
secured are the following:
The Civil and Social Evolution of Woman,
		by Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Woman the New Factor in Economics,
		by Augusta Cooper Bristol.
Our Debt to Brussels,
		by Dr. Marie Popelin.
	Dr. Popelin is the Belgium Woman with
whose name many American women be-
came familiar a few years ago through read-
ing of her efforts to open the legal profes-
sion to her country-women. These efforts
were finally crowned with the success which
Dr. Popelin certainly deserved, and she is
at present a recognized legal practitioner in
Brussels.
	Brussels is known the world over as the
city of free speech. No matter how
stringent the laws in regard to men’s
actions, they are there free to express ideas
ranging all the way from ultra conservatism
through the entire gamut of “isms" to the
rankest anarchy. As a result of this pro-
tection of freedom of speech, Brussels has
been the hostess of a wonderful series of
Congresses and Conventions dealing with
every imaginable subject of modern thought.
It is with this phase of Brussels’ history
that Dr. Popelin’s address will deal.
	This great Congress will open the grand
series of World’s Congresses which will
continue until the end of the Exposition.
	The building in which all the Congresses
[column 2]
will convene is not upon the Exposition
grounds, as many persons seem to suppose.
If the Congresses were held there, all those
attending them would have to pay the regu-
lar admission to the Exposition.
	The Art Institute of Chicago is a new
building now approaching completion,
situated upon the Lake front, quite near
the Auditorium Hotel. It will be entirely
given up to the Congress Auxiliary for the
six months of the Exposition. It contains
two auditoriums, each seating twenty-five
hundred people, and about twenty small-
er halls, ranging in seating capacity from
three hundred to eight hundred. Some of
these will be occupied as the offices of the
World’s Congress Auxiliary, but at least
fifteen will be left for the use of the Con-
gresses. This gives opportunity, in those
Congresses which hold three sessions daily,
for thirty-six sessions weekly in large
auditoriums, and two hundred and seventy
sessions weekly in the Department Halls.
	During the week of the Congress of
Representative Women,  the entire building,
exclusive of the offices occupied by the
Congress Auxiliary, will be at the service
of the Woman’s Congress. We believe
this is not the case with any other single
Congress, and the reason is obvious. The
General Congresses will show, each in its
own Department, the intellectual advances
made in all the realms of thought and ef-
fort by men and women, without special
regard paid to the question of which sex
performed the work, and they will have
five months in which to show this. The
Woman’s Congress, on the other hand, will
endeavor in one week to set forth briefly,
but at the same time broadly and compre-
hensively, the relation of woman to the
world’s work. The addresses will be on
topics calculated to show the relation of
woman to the subject in hand. The Reports
all over the world (these Reports are not to be
presented orally at the Congress but to be
published afterward) will endeavor to give
a resume of the relation of woman to Edu-
cation, Industry, Literature and Art, Phil-
anthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Civil Law and Government,
Science and Philosophy, and to Religion in
every country where woman is recognized
as a factor in the national life.
	The management of the Woman’s Con-
gress is in the hands of the Committee of
Arrangements of the Woman’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary of which
Mrs. Potter Palmer is President and Mrs.
Chas. Henrotin, Vice-President. It has
been decided to hold but two sessions daily
in the main auditorium and in the Depart-
ment Congresses, in order to leave the
afternoons free for social intercourse, and a
sub-committee has charge of arranging a
series of informal receptions to take place
during the Congress.
	Over forty organizations in this country
and more than that number from other
countries are co-operating in the Woman’s
Congress, by sending representatives to pre-
sent their work during its sessions. In or-
der to give greater opportunity for the pre-
sentation of the organized work of women,
all national associations of women in the
United States have received the invitation
to use for one day a Department Hall in the
Art Institute.
	These Department Congresses will be
managed entirely by the officers of the
organizations holding them. Already
twenty organizations have decided to ar-
[column 3]
range for Department Congresses and are
at work upon their Programmes, striving
to make them as strong as possible and
each desiring to be considered an addition
to the other attractions of the Congress.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


A BIRTHDAY SURPRISE.

	AT 3-30, the second of March, at the
close of the Relief Society meeting of which
Sister Hannah Raymond is the President,
Soda Springs Idaho, the friends and
acquaintance of Sister Raymond who were
not at meeting, marched into the meeting-
house loaded down with good things etc:
and the surprise to Sister Raymond, who
was eighty years old, that day was complete
as she had not the slightest idea that her
friends had such a treat in store for her.
She seemed to think she was young once
more, and appreciated the honors shown
her by her many friends in a manner becom-
ing a thankful person many years younger.
	Sister Raymond has many friends as was
shown by those present as the company as-
sembled, was composed of both members
and non members of the Mormon Church;
she being a lady much respected by all who
knew her.
	Sister Raymond was one of the Pioneers
who crossed the plains from Missouri River
to Utah in early days in the first hand cart
company that ever undertook that hard trip,
and she has suffered all the hardships and
privations of a pioneer life, she has been the
mother of thirteen children, five of whom
are living. She was married at the age of
twenty and has lived a life that has made
friends of all who ever became acquainted
with her.
	A temporary table was soon prepared
after her many friends filled into the meet-
ing house and was quickly covered with the
many good things prepared by the sisters,
both old and young, as all took active part.
While the sumptuous dinner was being pre-
pared the Sunday School girls rendered
several songs and recitations, to their credit.
	There were over forty of the more elder-
ly people seated at the first table with Sister
Raymond at the head and after Bishop
Lau returned thanks upon the food and his
blessing upon Sister Raymond all without
an exception appeared to enjoy their dinner.
When the first table was through, nearly
as many young ladies, gentlemen and child-
ren were again seated and there were many
baskets left, and with the food left there
were a number of aged people who could
not attend made to know and remember the
occasion.
	After the meal was over Bishop Lau call-
ed the assembly to order and Elder H. S.
Woolley read the patriarchal blessing Sister
Hannah Raymond received under the hands
of John Young Patriarch on Dec. 10th,
1861. Among other blessings pronounced
upon the head of Sister Raymond was that
she should live as long as life was sweet'to
her.
	After the reading of the blessing a recess
was taken and later in the evening those
who desired assembled to enjoy themselves
in a dance and Sister Raymond opened the
dance in as gay a manner as a lady of forty
could do; and the prayer and benediction
of all was that Sister Raymond might see
many more birthday sand enjoy them as'she
had the one on her eightieth birthday.
							H. L.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN. ARISE!

O, Woman, arise! this glow in the skies,  
	Betokens the advent of morning;
Thy spirit may smile, exulting the while,
	In the day which has published its warning.

Its glory shall shine, in splendor divine,
	Thy path, so long dark, to illumine,
And render thee strong to wrestle with wrong
	Which, crushing thee, crushes all human.

Thy desolate cry, through ages gone by,
	To the ear of thy God has ascended:
He bids thee prepare His armor to bear,
	For soon shall thy penance be ended.

In God be thy trust, whose word is so just,
	He hears all thy sorrowful pleading;
Still cling to His hand; He’ll teach you to stand,
	Upholding, encouraging, leading.

Thy heart true and warm, in every form,
	Have pain and pale sorrow attended;
And grim-visaged wrong has trampled thee
		long,
	But soon shall its triumph be ended.

Thy companions, though few, are valiant and 
		true,
	And swiftly their numbers are swelling;
Then never despair, for lo! in the air,
	Pure light is the darkness dispelling.

Undoubtingly hear this anthem of cheer
	The voice of a prophet is singing:
O, Sister rejoice! lift up thy glad voice,
	The bells of thy freedom are ringing!
						        L. L. DALTON.


A SISTER’S TRIBUTE.

Have you seen as you stood on the mountain’s
	brow,
The beauties of heaven, its treasures, and how,
		As if drawn by a magnet below,
They, trembled 'mid air waves and fell to the
	earth
(Allured by her sweetness, and held by her girth)
		Fair life giving beautiful snow?

Have seen how the rainbow, with arch raised on
	high,
Mounting the heavens and spanning the sky,
		Still rests with its portals on earth?
How its beauty, its radiance, by nothing out vied,
Increases in grandeur in splendor and pride,
		While illuming the lowly of birth?

Have seen where the strength of the ocean and
	stream,
Combining their forces, will eddy and gleam,
		The mighty and gentle entwined?
The sage have you seen with his knowledge of
	truth, 
Enshrining his spirit with that of fair youth—
		Aye—wisdom with boyhood combined?

Have seen the white brow with full mental grace
Where God-like endeavor hath left its deep trace,
		Where wisdom hath taken her rest?
Have seen how it throbbed with the ardor of
	youth,
O’er flooded with sea-waves of heaven-born
	truth,
		That surge with their virtuous crest?

	Have noted that throne of expression, the eye,
Where thought and where genius impassioned
	doth lie,

		And mirror the depths of the soul?
Have seen it where justice and mercy unite?
When love but of heaven doth soften its light
		And give it a magnet control?


If these you have seen, 
Oh! then, the fair image me thinks you have seen
Of him, of my brother, the friend that has been,
		E’en while I have bowed ’neath the rod:
The brother who stepped from the fairest of
	heights
To place in my pathway the heavenly lights,
		Reflecting the glories of God.
						ARETTA YOUNG.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE monthly meeting of the U. W. P.
Club was held in the EXPONENT Parlor
Feb. 28th, 1893. Prest. E. B. Wells in the
chair. Prayer by Lula G. Richards,
minutes of last meeting read and approved,
members responded to roll call, with senti-
ments from the writings of “Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.” Program rendered as follows:—
	An excellent selected article was read by
Ella Hyde. Two lovely songs by May
Preston. “What western women are do-
ing in Literature,” original article, by Mary
A. B. Freeze. An article by M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh read by May Preston.
	The Badge was discussed very freely and
a decision arrived at, that the same com-
mittee with May Preston added get other
designs and compare with the one already
presented, before deciding upon what
should be adopted; it was voted unanimously,
that the Prest. select from mottoes offered
by the members,and decide upon the one to
be accepted by the club.
	After reading some mottoes which were
handed in by the ladies present, the meeting
was adjourned until the 22nd, of March at
7, 30 p. m. at the same place, where it was
expected we would meet for the last time as
the Prest. contemplated moving from the
historic old house, to more commodious
quarters.
	Refreshments were served, while the
ladies discussed freely the topics which had
been presented to the Club.
	U. W. P. C. Program for March 22, 1893.
	“Women in Journalism,”—Josephine
Spencer. Song and music—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Sketch of the life of an eminent
woman—May Preston. Poem—Ruth M.
Fox. Ignorance Progress Vs.—Phebe C.
Young. Specimens of different styles of
verse, comments—Nevada V. Davis.
Members to respond to roll call, by senti-
ments from Longfellow. Benediction
Phebe C. Young.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Ass’t, Sec.


THE LAND OF MONTEZUMA.

	LEAVING Salt Lake via. of the Rio
Grande and Colorado Midland, east to
Colorado Springs, thence south on the Santa
Fe, three days travel brings us to the city
of El Paso Texas; this is a town of con-
siderable size and not unlike some of our
western cities with all the adjuncts of so
called civilization, Sectarian Churches,
liquor saloons, gambling halls &c. Tak-
ing the street car from this point ten
minutes ride crossing the Rio Grande river,
lands us, as it were, into a new world,
another people speaking another language
different style of Architecture, different
mode of agriculture, manner, amusements
and religion all have a tendency to impress
one that they are not in the Ustadas Uni-
das del Morte.
	Here again a man becomes a child to
learn to talk is the ever ambition of young
Americans, a new field of study if diligent-
ly followed up will aid in developing the


mind, broadening the ideas until he shall
look upon his fellowman in any land or
clime with a spirit of liberality.
	The ringing of the bells going to Church
and see the people going through their
mode of worship on a Sunday morning al-
though they do not have the true gospel of
Christ, their dress, devotion and manner
makes the impression that they are an
earnest religious people.
	The playing of the bands, the shouting
of the boys promenading on the streets and
public places, the great gatherings to see
man pitted in the Arena, against the brute
beast the afternoon of the same day, has a
tendency to make one change his opinion;
we may ask, what kind of an example do
they see when they look to the north with
our boasted civilization and see man pitted
in the Arena against his fellow man in
deadly combat? Leaving these brutal sports
we pass on south from the American line,
two or three hundred miles, here the climate
has changed, old Sol throws his genial
rays on Mother Earth and the husbandman
clad in the lightest of wearing appearel,
reaps his corn, picks his cotton, sows his
wheat, and garden seeds in succession from
October to April.
	On the 6th, of March of the present
year, your humble servant left this beautiful
land the air scented with blossoms of fruits
and flowers to find that winter’s storm king
still held his grip and apparently reigns
supreme in the mountains and valleys of
the west.				FRANCESCO.


ABOUT THE WORLD’S FAIR.

	THE Queen Regent of Spain will be rep-
resented at the World’s Columbian Expo-
sition by the Infanta Eulalia and her hus-
band, Prince Antoine. The Spanish
Cabinet has sanctioned their visit to the
World’s Fair as representatives of Queen
Regent Christina. The Infanta Eulalia
was born Feb. 12th, 1864, and is therefore,
nearly 29 years of age. She was married
to Prince Antoine son of Prince Antoine
d’Orleans, Duke of Montpensier, Feb. 28,
1886. The Infanta Eulalia is the youngest
sister of King Alfonso.

	The Japanese royal family will be repre-
sented at the World’s Fair. It is announc-
ed positively that the eldest son and probable
successor of the Mikado will visit Chicago
in September.

	THE Bureau of Music of the World’s
Fair has issued the following relative to
concerts by American artists at the Expo-
sition:

	Those among the younger, native born, pro-
fessional musicians of this country who may de-
sire to avail themselves of the opportunity, are
invited to communicate with the Bureau of music
before May 1st,with such testimonials as shall in-
dicate clearly the degree of their ability and
talent. Those applicants whom the Musical Di-
rector can recommend will be asked to appear
before a committee with headquarters in Chicago
to be appointed by the Bureau of Music. A medal
or other token will be conferred upon all who
meet the standard of attainment required by
this committee and possibly an appearance in
concert in Recital Hall of the Exposition may be
arranged.
	There will be no expense connected with the
trial in Chicago except those of travel and enter-
tainment: these the candidate must pay, as the
Bureau has no funds for this purpose. 
	The Chicago Committee will not be convened
until after the opening of the Exposition in May,
and will hear no candidates not recommended
by the Musical Director


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MARCH 1st, 1893.


PRESIDENT WOODRUFF,S
			BIRTHDAY.

	TO-DAY, March 1st, 1893, is the anniver-
sary of the birthday of President Wilford
Woodruff the venerable Apostle and Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. Every true saint through-
out Zion, rejoices that his useful life has
been prolonged to see the day in which so
many wonderful things are transpiring, and
especially to see the near completion of the
Temple erected in this city for which he
has manifested such intense interest, and a
great desire to live and participate in the
glorious blessings and privileges pertaining
thereto.
	The President’s life has been a most
eventful one, and though he is one of the
most unassuming of men, he has risen
meritoriously to the highest and most
responsible position in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints. In all places
and at all times in prosperity as well as ad-
versity he has ever manifested the humility
and childlike spirit of a man of God, and
this individual characteristic has intensified
the love of the people towards him and in-
creased their reverence for his counsel and
their ardent desire that his life be spared
to lead Israel yet many years now that the
dedication is so near the feeling of confi-
dence is strengthened that their prayers in
his behalf are sure to be answered, and that
he will be able to dedicate the House of the
Lord which he has so carefully watched
the progress in building, and which was
finished during his administration.
	President Wilford Woodruff comes of the
good staunch, old Puritan stock, which is
very apparent in his habits, customs and
manner generally to one who knows the
New England people and their characteris-
tics.
	President Woodruff was bom on the first
of March, 1807, at Avon, Hartford County
Connecticut, a most romantic and interesting
part of the country. His boyhood was
spent upon a farm just as that of many of the
greatest men of America has been.


Today he celebrates his eighty sixth anni-
versary and has arranged, by invitation, for
a gathering of his brethren of the Apostles,
and some other brethren and sisters at his
handsome residence in the suburbs of the
City.
	The EXPONENT offers the most sincere
congratulations to the veteran and beloved
leader and President of the Church, and
may his valuable life be prolonged until he
shall see the utmost desire of his heart grat-
ified concerning the work in which he has
borne so important a part.
	The birthday anniversary of the President
was also by a singular coincidence the birth-
day of his wife, Sister Emma Woodruff,
though she is many years younger than her
husband. Truly her lot has fallen in pleas-
ant places, and the writer congratulates her
on having attained such distinction in the
Church in connection with her husband,
and may her blessings continue to multiply
as the years roll on.
	In our next issue we shall be able to give
some particulars concerning the birthday
party which will doubtless be a very happy
affair, as it almost invariably is when old
friends and co-laborers meet together for
social enjoyment.


﻿THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE.

	THERE has never been a time in the
history of this Church when all the Latter-
day Saints were looking forward to one
particular event with greater interest and
perhaps enthusiasm, than they are at present
to the dedication of the Temple which has
been built here in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake. No Temple in this generation
has been so mnch talked of and dwelt upon,
its beauty, its splendor, its magnificence, its
grandeur and the objects for which it has
been erected with such carefulness thought
and diligence, these themes have been dis-
cussed, commented upon and written about
in the Stakes of Zion here and abroad in
other lands wherever the Saints dwell, or
the Gospel has been preached.
	The people have given willingly and
liberally of their means, not only those who
had abundance but those who had little,and
have rejoiced in giving for such a grand and
noble purpose as the erection of the House
of the Lord. The “widow’s mite” and the
children’s nickels have been as welcome
and acceptable as the hundreds and thous-
ands from the coffers of the rich. It has
taken time, patience and ability guided by
the spirit of revelation to accomplish this
stupendous work. The faith of the Saints
has been centered upon this work to a very
great extent for years past; their prayers
have been offered up to their Father in
heaven that He would open up the way,
would bless and increase the means donated,
that there might be a house suitable,
dedicated and consecrated for the great work
of redemption for the dead and the salvation
of the living. The house of the Lord
built in the tops of the mountains, spoken
of by the prophets of ancient times. In
this house and in such holy places con-
secrated to sacred ordinances and holy pur-
poses it is anticipated the spirit and power
of God will be made manifest in a greater
degree than elsewhere. The Lord will

[Column 2]
pour out blessings upon the faithful accord-
ing to their faith and their needs, and the
Saints are in many instances preparing
themselves to receive the promised bless-
ings. It is a day to be looked forward to
with joy and rejoicing. When the cap-stone
was laid the people covenanted to do cer-
tain things and in fulfillment of these
promises, the Lord has helped them, and
means and money has come, often from un-
looked for sources, and everything has
prospered to the accomplishment of what
was desired, tho’ at the time it looked much
more difficult to do, except to those who
had implicit faith.
	The April Conference is so near now, the
time set for the dedication, that the Saints
are beginning to ask themselves whether
they are worthy of entering therein, and to
inquire into their own hearts and lives and
it seems that a general awakening is mani-
fest; and this is certainly commendable and
will be a part of the duty of every Latter-
day Saint to be humble, forgiving and
penitent, putting aside ill-feeling and selfish-
ness, and seeking to subdue every unworthy
motive and purpose and conform to the
golden rule, “Whatsoever ye would that
men should do unto you, do ye even so to
them.” Charity for others and that love
that passeth all else should be and abound
in the hearts and homes of the Saints at all
times, but particularly when about entering
into holy places should the Saints take rare
that their is no hardness in their hearts no
influence to hinder the outpouring of the
spirit of God.
	This dedication of the Salt Lake Temple
seems the greatest event in the history of
the Church, and will undoubtedly make
an epoch such as has not yet been recorded,
for not only are tens of thousands of the
saints awaiting it with anxiety, expectancy
and sublime faith, but those who have pass-
ed to the other side, are also looking for-
ward to the consummation of the work,
and the commencement of another phase of
the Gospel work, for the millions who are to
be blest through the faithfulness and active
exertions of those who have the privilege
of officiating in holy places.
	The work of redemption is constantly
going forward already there are three
Temples in which the Saints have been per-
mitted to labor, and the work multiplies and,
ncreases more and more, and many more
Temples will be needed and the people will
be inspired to build them as they have been
those that are already completed. The
earth is full of material adapted for these
uses, and the Lord in his own due time
brings to pass His purposes, often in ways
of which man has not dreamed.
	The greatest day that Israel has yet seen
will probably be when the dedication of the
Temple takes place. Can any one who was
present at the ceremonies of the laying of
the cap-stone ever forget the spirit and pow-
er of that occasion, the glory that rested
like a halo upon that vast assembly and the
hosannas that ascended from the assembled
throng. That was truly a gathering of
many nations, kindred, tongues and people;
and now the Saints are on the eve of anoth-
er greater and more important event and it
calls for the united faith, devotion, reverence
and thanksgiving to God, that He may ac-
cept the offering not only of the sacred
edifice erected to his name, but manifest his
approval of their humble and united efforts
to serve Him through obedience to his com-
mandments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	NO doubt the readers of our precious lit-
tle paper think some apology necessary for
the delay in the delivery, and we think so
too, although we feel sure that all interested
in the success of the EXPONENT, and the
women of Utah generally would excuse the
remissness if they could be definitely in-
formed of the circumstances that have
caused it. Patience good friends for a short
time with the difficulties and embarrass-
ments, and excuse shortcomings that are
unavoidable as you would wish your friends
to excuse you, were you in a like or similar
dilemma. When you come to Conference
call at the Office and we trust all may be sat-
isfactorily explained.
	WE must again ask pardon for omitting
the chapter of the story "In Rural
England." There are so many home topics
to be discussed just now that the space is
almost entirely given to such matters, and
the World's Fair topics which are of particu-
lar importance at present. We have also on
hand notices of meetings and reports that
we hope to publish soon; several obituaries
that are waiting in the editor's desk; but the
people who have sent them will, we hope,
consider that we can only use a limited
amount of space for certain things as there
are so many subjects; and it is very desirable
to keep a record of woman's work in the
Relief Society and other organizations for
benefit, helpfulness, advancement &c. In-
deed had it not been for the EXPONENT, to
which we can refer on many matters that
concern women, we could scarcely have ac-
complished what has been done for the
World's Fair; and for this and other good
and sufficient reasons, the sisters, who are
laboring in various departments of work
and in the societies and associations, should
not only help to sustain the paper by sub-
scription but should preserve the papers so
as to have them for reference.
	WE are quite sure that our readers will
be interested in knowing that our sisters of
the Relief Society organized upon the Sand-
wich Islands have, under the direction of
their very clever and energetic President
Mrs. Libbie Noall, made a handsome and
rather expensive gift to the Salt Lake Tem-
ple. The contribution consists of one
hundred and sixty hand made bamboo fans
and two white feather Kahili's, the work of
the native sisters exclusively. "The
Kahili's anciently were made from the
feathers of birds held sacred by the Hawaiians
and were forbidden to be used outside the
Royal family, and only very recently have
they consented for other kingdoms to pur-
chase them even at the exorbitant price of
fifteen hundred dollars each. We shall have
 more to say of these articles hereafter. It
is certainly a valuable present and some-
thing quite unique. On account of the
recent troubles in the Hawaiian kingdom
there will be no exhibit of the natives' work
or curiosities at the Columbian Exposition
in Chicago.


SPRINGVILLE W. S. A.

	A MONTHLY meeting of the W. S. A.
convened March 10th, called to order by
the President, S. A. Boyer. After the
usual preliminaries, Don C. Johnson was
the first speaker on the programme, “In the


life and character of Napoleon;” among
many good things he said was this, “Tell
me what kind of a character a man is and I
will tell you what kind of a mother he had
and proved that the greatest men have
risen from the humblest ranks of society.”
	The next speaker was our School Super-
ntendent Morgan “On the life of Henry
Clay.” He said that in looking over the
history of men, he divided them into three
classes, great in morals, great in thought,
and great in action, considered Napolepon
great in action but not a conscientious and
moral man, as compared with Henry Clay
said many things worthy of note. Profes-
sor Lynes spoke, by invitation,of the presi-
dent. In his remarks he said he considered
it a greater privilege to be able to vote for a
president than to be one. Considered his
wife as competent to fill that position as
himself and in many respects better. He
brought up many instances in regard to vot-
ing that are an outrage, compared the ig-
norant foreigner with many of our educated
sons before they are twenty one, and our-
educated women who are not allowed to
vote, nor have a voice in who shall teach
their children, considered it un-American,
urged women to educate themselves for the
time when they can have the franchise
said that the women of Utah should not
allow the constitutional convention to con-
vene when Utah is admitted without having
presented a petition to that body. The
president said she was delighted with the
information imparted to us, and it was sug-
gestive of what can be accomplished by
cultivating the intellectual faculties and
making them subservient to our wishes in
whatever direction we wish to drift, hoped
that when a state convention convened, the
women of Utah would be posted on these
matters sufficiently that they will be will-
ing to engraft this clause in their constitu-
tion and thereby avoid the agitation its com-
mision would entail. Yours in the cause of
truth.
	A SUBSCRIBER


R. S. REPORT.

ONEIDA STAKE
	Minutes of the Second Quarterly con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Oneida
Stake held at Oxford, March 5th, 1893.
	Stake President Elizabeth Fox presiding.
The choir sang, "The Glorious Day of
Promise," prayer by Brother Charles
Crowshaw, singing. Minutes of the first
Conference, which was held in Weston,
Dec. 4th, 1892, were read and approved.
Verbal reports were then given by the ward
presidents, Amanda Lewis—Oxford, Eliza-
beth Clark—Weston, D. E. Dudley—
Clifton; very good reports were given of 
the wards represented. Mary J. Hendricks
counselor to President Fox made a few re-
marks and Brother W. D. Hendricks said
he was with his mother at the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society, remembered and
related some of the instructions given by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Mary A. Boice
bore her testimony to the truth of this
work. Bishop R. Lewis felt that it was
good to convene in Conference, encouraged
the sisters in well doing invoked God's
blessing on all organizations of the Latter-
day Saints. Choir sang "God is Love,"
Benediction by Brother Laron Andrews.
	Afternoon session:—The choir Sang,
"Sweet is Thy Work," prayer by Brother
Lewis Petty, singing, "Go Search in the


Depths,” sacrament administered by the
Elders. The choir sang a sacramental
hymn. President Fox addressed the con-
gregation spoke concerning the missions
all had come upon this earth to perform
thought mothers that had attended the
Relief Society would have the right spirit
by which to teach and control their child-
ren; gave very good instructions to all, felt
we should all be up and doing, that we
might be prepared to meet the Savior when
He comes on earth to reign.  Counselor
Mary J. Hendricks felt to endorse the
counsel and instructions of President Fox,
there was a great reward to be gained
by being diligent. Sister Fox recited a
verse that came to her mind, which was
appropriate for the occasion.
	Bishop Lewis spoke concerning the
Dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, he was
pleased to have the sisters visit us.  Broth-
er Laron Andrews made some very good
and instructive remarks.  Brother Lewis
Petty bore his testimony to the truth of
what had been said in meeting today, he
also spoke of the good instructions that had
been given in the Priesthood meeting, spoke
of the benefit of the Relief Society in each 
ward.  Brother Laron Andrews encouraged
all to treasure up the good counsel and in-
structions that had been given in this con-
ference, said our heavenly Father knew the
secret feelings of every heart; bore a strong
testimony of the truth of this Latter-day work.
Conference was adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Brother Nephi Clements.
LAURA LEWIS Sec.


SAVONAROLA.

THE FLORENTINE REFORMER
(Concluded.)
	ON the 1st of August 1489 when he had
consented to preach where greater num-
bers might find room, the church was so
crowded that people laying hold of the iron
railings hung from them as well as they
could in their desire to hear.  it was then
he preached upon a passage in Revelations.
Three things he suggested that created a
furore.  "That the Church of God required
renewal and that immediately.  Second that
all Italy should be chastised.  Third that
this should soon come to pass."
	The excitement produced was very great.
The Florentines were totally unused to the
natural eloquence of a preacher who rejected
all traditions and poured forth floods of
fiery words inspired by his subject possessed
by what he had to say, too much in earnest
to think of taste, literature or style—or any-
thing except that with which he was bound
to tell his auditors, and which to them and
to him is a matter of life and death, "this is
at all times a wonderful and impressive
spectacle."  No simulation can attain the
same effect, the fervor may be vulgar, it may
be associated with narrow views and a
limited mind, but wherever it exists in great
or small in learned or unlearned, the man
possessed by it has a power over his fellow-
men which nothing else can equal.  Savon-
arola's whole soul was concentrated upon the
real evils around him, and riveted upon
Florence in particular, the sins, strifes,
frauds and violence; she was enslaved and
corrupt and the preacher's soul was burning
with the extravagant love of civic freedom
he loved her and he could not endure the
shame of her impurity.  Burlamacchi says
the grace of God appeared in the lofty words


[Column 1]
and profound thoughts which he gave forth,
his voice was clear, and his tongue rapid,
but every one understood him, he en-
raptured the very soul of every one who
heard him so that wonders and amazing
appearances were seen by many while he
was in the act of preaching. He was to
them an Apostle, some believed they saw
an angel on either side of him as he
preached. Some saw the Madonna in glory,
blessing him with fair, uplifted hands when
he blessed the worshipers around.
	The crowds became so large that he re-
moved to the Duomo where he preached
during eight years, this cathredal was ex-
actly suited to such an impassioned speaker,
and listeners so intent. It is dark, majestic,
mythical a little light coming in through
the windows gorgeous in their deep color,
the vast area bare and naked, fit to be
filled with a silent Italian crowd a mass of
characteristic Tuscan faces vigorous, harsh
but seldom beautiful. One can imagine
the great voice lighting up a glow of
passionate feeling in those responsive gleam-
ing eyes, the sound coming out of the dark
circle under the dome and resounding over
the heads of the crowd which filled the
nave. No scene could suit meet the
superb bareness of the place.
	Savonarola was often greatly exercised at
his own prophecies and attempted to re-
strain the flood which would thus curbed,
break forth fiercer than ever; the very tu-
mults that rose against him excited and
stimulated his followers. Burlamacchi’s des-
cription of the crowds who flocked to hear
him set the picture distinctly before us.
	The people got up in the middle of the
night to get places for the sermon, and
came to the door of the cathedral, waiting
outside till it should be opened, making no
account of any inconvenience, neither of the
cold nor the wind nor of standing in winter
with their feet on the marble; and among
them were young and old, women and
children of every sort, who came with such
jubilee and rejoicing, that it was bewilder-
ing to hear them; going to the sermon as to
a wedding. Then the silence was great in
the church each one going to his place, and
he who could read, with a taper in his hand,
read the service and other prayers. And
though many thousand people were there
collected together, no sound was to be
heard, not even a hush until the arrival of
the children, who sang hymns with so much
sweetness that heaven seemed to have
opened. Thus they waited three or four
hours until the preacher entered the pulpit.
And the attention of so great a mass of
people all with eyes and ears intent upon
the preacher was wonderful; they listened so
that when the sermon reached its end, it
seemed to them it had scarcely begun.”
	There were men in Florence not at all
likely to be carried away with any common
craze after a popular preacher, whose hearts
ached over the evils of the times, were
voiceless by nature, but sick at heart and
sad at the daily sight of the corruption
round them who percieved in the cowled
Dominican an ally and spokesman beyond
their hopes. One of these was Prospero
Petti canon of the cathedral, who for years
had borne his homely testimony against the
evils of the time, and prophesied as many
humble prophets do of the vengeance of
God overtaking the wicked. He was a firm
believer in the old tradition that the true
vicar of Christ was to come to avenge sin
and make the church glorious. When he

[Column 2]
heard the voice of Savonarola intoning with
prophetic force, he bent his head between
his hands and after an interval turning to
his nephew Carlo Petti at his side said,
“This is the holy prophet of whom
have talked to you for years. Many
such wonderful things and sayings
transpired at that period, and though the
truths proclaimed and the converts made
were not so many perhaps or so wide spread
as afterwards under Martin Luther and
others, still it was dissenting from the evils
of the Roman Catholic church, which had
held such supreme sway and was one of the
most remarkable revivals of a purer and
more devout faith. His denunciation of
avarice, usury and rampant worldliness were
as strenuous and impressive as his exhor-
tations to prayer and the study of the Bible
were touching and beautiful. Historians
say many efforts have been made to prove
by his subordination of rites and cere-
monies to spiritual truth and sincerity by
his elevated spiritual appreciations of the love
of Christ, of faith in him and of the supreme
authority of Scripture, that Savonarola was
an early Luther, an undeveloped reformer,
an unconscious Protestant. Certainly he was
a reformer and one who protested against
evil with a vigor and intensity such as few
men are capable of. He announced the
sword of the Lord which was to smite the
earth, to the rising of great prosecution,
among those who resisted his influence. In
the palace they first talked of banishing
him from Florence, and the courtiers said
we shall do to this Fra Giralamo as we did
to Fra Bernardino. When Lorenzo’s
courtiers talked of driving Savonarola from
Florence he took no part in it but kept his
eye upon the Dominican with interest in a
sense that indicated that he recognized in
him, “one of his own kingly kind, though
so unlike himself, a man worth knowing,
worth making a friend of.” In July 1491—
when the pressure against this man was
very great the Dominicans of San Marco
elected Savonarola their Prior, with a view
to protect him and it was the habit of every
newly elected Prior to pay his respects to
Lorenzo, to thank him for his protection
and recommend the convent to his good
graces. The elders prudent and politiceven
waited to see him do his duty in this par-
ticular and when they found he obstinately
refused they hastened to him in fear, and
demanded him to do so, “who elected me, he
asked, God or Lorenzo?" Lorenzo when he
heard of it was not angry, and no doubt
this great prince and able statesman, was
far more noble and considerate than the
sycophants with whom he was surrounded.
What he said was as though half-amused,
“A stranger has come to live in my house,
and does not think it worth his while to come
and see me.” It is evident that this very fact
stimulated the desire of Lorenzo to know
this one man, who never bowed before him.
From this time he began to haunt the
Church, would go to hear mass, then stray
into the garden, lingering there as a lover
for his mistress, then the Monks would
hasten to tell the Prior but he would only
ask, “Has he inquired for me?” The
troubled monks obliged to say “no!”
“Then let him take his walk in peace.”
	Lorenzo was not content, he sent presents
to the convent, he dropped gold pieces in
the box, a very unusual liberality, still
Savonarola resisted. When the box was
opened and the gold seudos seen, the Prior
laid them aside and sent them to San Marti-

[Column 3]
no to be distributed to the poor, to the
great disappointment of the monks. Lor-
enzo, finding all efforts unavailing to gain
an audience, sent five men of note and
weight, directing them to go as of their own
accord, to beg Savonarola to moderate his
sermons and to cease his denunciations of the
general corruption when they had stated
their errand,which they did with much con-
fusion and embarrassment, the Dominican
looked at them with his penetrating eyes,
and read their secret, he said, “Yon tell me
you come here of your own accord for the
good of the city and the love you bear this
convent, but I tell you it is not so. Lorenzo
de Medici has sent you here, therefore tell
him from me, that though he is a Floren-
tine, and the greatest in the city and I am a
stranger, yet it is he who must leave
Florence and I who must remain. He
shall go away, but I shall stay.”
	The shamed and discomfitted ambassadors
went back witn the message receiving it as
a prophecy. The Prior soon after told the
whole story in a sermon from his pulpit in
the presence of some of the envoys.
	Baffled inall his attempts Lorenzo deter-
mined to crush this rebellious friar, and
took such secret measures as became his
dignity and position. Savonarola afterwards
foretold to a Francisian friar the death of
Lorenzo within the year, he was then in the
full vigor of his life and powers.
	When the time came, he sent for
the Prior who had repulsed him, but
Savonarola sent back the mesenger saying,
“I am not the person he wants, we should
not agree,” but he sent again promising to
agree and Savonarola obeyed the summons,
on his way he told the messenger that
Lorenzo would die; when he reached the
chamber of the dying man, he said, “Father
there are three things which drag me back
and throw me into despair, and I know not
if God will ever pardon me for them.”
These were the sack of Valterra, the rob-
bery of the Monte della Franceulla and the
massacre of the Pazzi. The Prior reminded
him of the mercy of God and said he will
be merciful to you if you will have a great
and living faith that he can and will be 
merciful. Lorenzo had been victorious and
successful in everything but the battle was
lost at last, and the prophet at his side in-
timated the downfall of his family and of
Florence.
	After the death of Lorenzo, came the
French invasion to take Naples, Pietro the
son of Lorenzo held a tottering sway when
the French army crossed the Alps.
Savonarola was preaching in the Duomo
when the news of the army nearing the
city came, the excited populace rushed to
hear what the preacher would say about
this terrible event. He had prophesied of
Lorenzo’s death and he was dead, he had
predicted the coming of a new Cyrus from 
over the hills to punish the wicked and
purge Italy of her sins. Pietro in his fright
went out to meet his fate. He acted with
signal folly when the news of his base sur-
render reached Florence the whole city was
in an uproar the confusion of the masses
was like the gathering of a tempest, leader-
less, counselless as they were one impulse
swayed them to go to the preacher. There
was one man at least who could be trusted,
who would speak out boldly, thither the
crowd hastened.
	Stretching out his arms over the crowd
with the emotion of one who shared their-
pangs, he said, ‘‘repent for the kingdom of


[Column 1]
heaven is at hand, and pardon, O! Lord,
pardon these Florentines who desire to be
thine.” This  was  how  Savonarola took
the tide at its flood.  He might have made
himself leaderautocrat, director, but the only
revenge he bade them take, was chastise-
ment for their  sins, and  the remedy was
reformation not  for  the  state only but
individuals. While the officials still had a
remnant of power and could  yet do some-
thing to save the city, Savonarola held the
populace; next Savonarola went with the
ambassadors as one of them to meet Charles
and see what could be done to save the City,
before he went he delivered a great sermon
telling the people to be merciful and Warn-
ing them then he set out upon his mission,
but  nothing was promised. Charles was
anxious to see the man who had called him
the new Cyrus, he told the king  that years
before this visitation had been revealed to
him, and delivered to him a prophetic mes-
sage in  the name  of  the Lord.   The king
and his generals were moved  by  this re-
markable address of Savonarola and he re-
turned with better hopes, tho’ without
promises, his very presence was a strength
to the City; he restrained the people speak-
ing  to  them  of  peace  and  brotherhood.
Through all those troublesome times he
continued to preach and the people listened.
It seems never to have occured  to him that
this prophetical rule was despotic.  To him
it was the reign of God thro’ his  own un-
worthy lips, he employed this power for no
other end than the  good of the people,  his
enemies say he loved power, and made this
a  welcome  explanation  of  his incompre-
hensible character.  He ruled like the ideal
tyrant of a poetic imagination, his heart full
of  God and  the  people without leaving a
corner for himself and this lasted for two
years and is spoken  of as Savonarola as a
politician, a new style was apparent, a new
spirit animating the people, the impress of
the Democratic friar.  The carnival of 1496
found him silent in obedience to Rome, he
was silenced but his  active spirit  was un-
touched and his courage little broken.
    It does not seem  possible  that any  man
who risks all in the hope of regenerating his
country or his class be it ever so great a cause
should  come  to   any but  a  tragical end.
So long as Savonarola’s influence lasted im-
morality and luxury were out of the fashion,
vileness paralyzed. Savonarola in his own
person was the National guard, his words
was their wine, his eloquence their theatre,
but those things were not to continue, after
he had freed  Florence and tamed  her   he
dropped back into the Prior of San Marco,
and the religious leader, against  whom the
world had now once risen up in fierce fight.
He somehow incurred the Pope’s displeasure,
and one of his tremendous sermons was sent
to the Pope, he was Rodorigo Borgia,  fath-
er of Ceaser Borgia and  Lucretia,  and  the
conflict between these lasted for three years,
during  this  time Savonarola suffered   all
sorts of trials and indignities, in June 1497
the long threatened excommunication was
launched against him and formally publish-
ed  in  the  cathedral.   He  questioned  the
Pope’s legality and that he had no authority
over  the  consciences of the people.   He
kept silence, in his cell occupying himself
with writing until Christmas day 1698, six
months after when he addressed a vast mul-
titude of people, after the solemn mass he
went still further than to doubt the pope and
so enraged his enemies that every day raised
some new sedition against him, at  the  end
of one of his sermons he announced that on

[Column 2]
the first day of the carnival he would if any
of his adversaries  would dare  the  experi-
ment along with him, appear in some pub-
lic place holding the Sacrament in his hand
and appeal to God in solemn prayer to send
fire from heaven and demonstrate whether
himself or his antogonist was  in the right
way.   The scene was very affecting,   his
appeal to the people most touching, but no
one came to accept the challenge.   Twice
afterward similar instances took place and
with the same result—the opposition never
appearing.
     After this he had no peace he was con-
tinually threatened  with  punishment  and
when permitted, he passed his time in prayer
and in such  devotion as  would  touch  the
heart of stone. He was guilty of sedition
and heresy,  and  all  the  tortures  of  the
inquisition were brought to bear upon him
to make him submit and retract. Two  of
the devoted followers of this great man who
had accepted his  views  of faith  were sen-
tenced with him.
     The most  severe  tortures lasted eleven
days, thro’ all these memorial days, he was
alone in his place of torture, the other friars
were dealt with separately:—on the 23rd, of
May 1498, the execution  took place, much
of Savonarola’s experience at  this time  is
involved in doubt but it is a well known
fact that these heroic  men  were executed
by strangling, and their bodies were burned
like those of many other martyrs for daring
to have views and convictions not  in  con-
formity  with  popular creeds.   The   scene
was most affecting.   The  effect,  however,
was permanent and  cannot  be erased,  the
biographers account of this wonderful man,
Savonarola, his life and work are conflicting,
but one who feels the spirit of  the man and
comprehends  the mission   he    filled, will
know that he was a  man of  destiny, and if
one can be  permitted  the privilege  called
of God to help in the  reformation of those
licentious  times. He wrote many celebrated
works in Latin and Italian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S' EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	THE elderly people of our little town,
Orderville, gathered at the residence of
Brother Isaiah Bowers to celebrate the Gold-
en Wedding of our beloved brother and
sister Hersiger, on the 17th, of September.
We had a good time, the program consisted
of songs, recitations and speeches appropri-
ate for the occasion, and a biographical
sketch, by the honored couple of their
former lives which was very interesting.
There were a good many useful presents
given to them.  They felt very happy for
the honor bestowed upon them for they are
very lonely with no children to cheer them
in their declining years and no relatives in
this country.
	The company sat down to a well filled
table of the good things of this world; after
supper was over, there was a beautiful
cake presented to the bride.
	The day was spent with joy and gladness
and all went home feeling well.
The following article was composed for
the occasion, by H. E. Hoyt.

Hand in hand a youth and maiden,
	Fifty years ago to day,
Started out upon life’s journey,
	With their hearts so light and gay
For they knew not of the trials,
	Which the tempter brings to bear,
Upon those whom he would conquer,
	How he does their feet ensnare.


Side by side those two have wandered,
	From the darkness into light,
Side by side they've fought and conquered,
	Now their path is clear and bright;
Side by side they have pressed onward,
	Up the rugged hill of life,
Side by side they've cheered each other,
	Passing by all care and strife.
Side by side through years of darkness,
	E'er the glorious light of truth,
Came to bless them with its beauties
	Bringing more than joys of youth.
Side by side they still are walking,
	Fifty years have passed and gone;
Still their hearts with love are beating,
	As they calmly journey on.
Though no children gather round them,
	Many friends are numbered here,
And they love them for their goodness,
	With a love that is sincere.
Side by side may they still travel,
	'Till our Father calls them home,
With that happy joyful greeting
	Enter in "thou hast well done."
	CLARISSA WILHELM.
German Star please copy.


ALTERATIONS OF THE OCTOROON.

For the Exponent.
	Believing that scenes of murder and
suicide upon the stage, should be avoided
even though the end is not tragical, it
would produce a better impression, leave, a
better and more cheerful feeling in the
minds of the beholders, and inculcate les-
sons of good, the liberty is taken to so alter
the original text.  Jacob, in a prison hav-
ing been caught by the Indian and delivered
up.
	Jacob soliliquizing, “A murderer’s doom is
mine. My love of greed, my mad love for
Zoe brings me here.  I have lost all, all
that man should care for, all that makes life
bright.  My hands are dyed red with blood.
My heart is cold, remorse my fate,  demons
my companions.  No hope no joy, all is the
darkness of despair.  Oh innocent ones,
keep innocent.  Never let those foul in-
fluences drag you down to utter perdition,
where there is no hope, where redemption
cannot come, where laugheth evil ones at
your dismay. This is my fate, that I alone
have brought upon myself.”
Then when Zoe is about to take poison
let her speak like this: “Here is the cup of
Lethe.  Here is the cup that bringeth peace 
of this life’s ills, that bringeth deadly sleep
that maketh me free from that detestable
man’s power, no longer his slave.  Shall I
drink it and sleep the last long sleep?
Shall I drink it, and lay my body down in
the cold and silent grave, shall I still these
warm heart beats, and go to the unseen
land of spirits? I am tempted—tempted, to
put my love, my life away.
	Shall I succumb to cowardly temptation,
or resist the syren’s plea?
There is another life than this, my deeds
will overtake me and what then will I be
there?”
	Dashes the cup down. “Go cup of Lethe,
go; I will not bring everlasting remorse
upon my spirit, I will not take my life, the
life that was given me for good.  I will not
stain my hands by so dark a deed, and bring
a murderer’s fate to me, so dark, so drear,
would be the penalty I would pay.  No
happiness, no joy, no love, no companions 
but those in like distress, no ray of light to
cheer my future way.
	Better be a slave than commit this wicked


act, and I will trust that vengeance over-
take that robber of my peace of heart, that
has brought upon us all this woe, that light
may break upon my eyes that I can see my
pathway clearly."
	Then when the news comes that Jacob is
in prison and the estate redeemed, Zoe
says,
	"George I love you too well to wish you
to link your fate with mine.  Be reconciled
with reason, that Dora for your wife, and
forget me in your love for her. If I do 
right upn this earth then shall I reap a re-
ward in the future. My life shall be de-
voted to others good alone."	
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE judiciary committe of the Illinois
Senate has reported favorably on the bill to
extend township and municipal suffrage to
women.
	REV. OLYMPIA BROWN will have the
sympathy of many friends in the loss of her
husband, Mr. Willis.
	WE note with regret the suspension of
the Arkansas Woman's Chronicle, at the
end of its fifth year.  It was bright, witty,
wise and sweet-tempered, and has been an
ever-welcome visitor to our sanctum.  The
health of the over-burdened editor has failed,
and rest and change have become impera-
tive for her.  The Chronicle has “fought a
good fight.” May it be able to return to
the field with renewed vigor!—Ex.
	The Countess of Aberdeen lends the
force of her example and voice to the cause
of woman suffrage.  She thinks women
owe it to themselves and to the public to
take part in politics. 
	CAMILLA COLLETT, the Norwegian writer
who has been called the “Mme. de Sevigne
of Norway,” was 80 years old a few weeks
ago, and a great festival was held in Christi-
ana to celebrate the day.  She has worked
all her life for the enfranchisement of wo-
men.  Henrik Ibsen was present at the
banquet given in her honor, and the town
was illuminated by a long procession of
students bearing torches.
	MRS. LUCY STONE gave a talk before the
Boston, Massachusetts,  Ministers Monday
Club not long since on “Equal Suffrage
for Women.”
	It is announced that the English women
who are preparing for the art exhibit at
Chicago have selected the following pictures
for the Woman’s Building to exemplify the
achievements of their sex with the brash
aud palette “To the Front,” by Lady
Butler, the fine representation of a detach-
ment of cavalry riding out of the gate of
an old town in Brittany; “A Regatta,” by
Miss Montalba “Browning’s Palace at
Venice,” by Miss Clara Montalba; and a
portrait study by Miss Hilda Montalba; the
much-admired portrait of a child, by Miss
Alice Grant; “Eurydice,” by Henrietta
Rae; “Molly’s Bail Dress,” by Mrs.
Perugini, and an exquisite little scene of a
cottage garden by Mrs. Allingham.—Ex.
	An English salt concern has made a salt
statue, modeled after Bartholdi’s Liberty-
Enlightening the World,” in New York
harbor.  The statue is 5 1/2 feet high and
stands on a rock salt base 7 feet high. The
salt was taken from a mine 250 feet deep.
The English firm will send it as an exhibit
to-the World’s Fair.


ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE.

Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	JUST to let you know that we away off
in Dixie are still alive to our duties in the
good works of Relief Society, Mutual Im-
provement and Primary Associations, and
also have the interest of the World's Fair
at heart, I'll write you a short account of 
a trip just taken, by Mrs. Ann C. Wood-
burry, Julia H. Ivins, Clara C. Cannon, of
Salt Lake, and myself, taken in their in-
terest.  We left St. George, Feb. 13th,
visited five of the settlements on the Rio
Vergin River and invited the other teo
small towns to meet with us at the nearest
large setlement, tuse we were enabled to
meet with the aformentioned associations 
and found them all doing a good work;
and all showed an interest in contributing
in every way possible to the World's Fair.
From the river settlements we went via
Bellevue to Harmony back to Bellevue and
Leeds, meeting with the same organizations
in these places found the same interest
manifest in these places as we have dis-
cribed.  We traveled one hundred and sixty
seven miles held fourteen meetings in one
week and returned home safely feeling well
paid for our time and hard riding over,
"Dixie roads," the hospitality and good 
feelings we met on every hand makes us
feel that we have in this part of the land
come to that time referred to in the hymn,
"When every man in every place shall
meet a brother and a friend," we ladies
met as brother, sisters and friends and
seemed to be appreciated by all.
	MOLLIE JUDD.


OBITUARIES.
	Hannah Oleson, or better known as Hannah
Neilson, died at her home in Hooper, Weber Co.
of old age, Feb. 7th, 1893. Deceased was born
in Bosarp, Malmo Sweden, Oct. 16th, 1816. She
was the daughter of Anders Oleson and Ellen
Jipson. She first heard the Gospel in the sum-
mer of 1857 and on the 26th, day of December of
the same year she was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Elder
Neils Johnson her only bed was often vacated
for the weary Elders and she divided her last
crust of bread with them and washed their
wounds when they had been mobbed. She left
her native land in the spring of 1862, bound for
Zion; she crossed the Ocean in a sailing vessel
and crossed the plains with ox-teams, arriving in
Salt Lake in the fall; she left home, relatives and
all she held dear for the Gospel’s, sake, being the
only one of her family that joined the Church.
From Salt Lake she moved to Round Valley,
Morgan Co. She was one of the Pioneers to
Hooper, Weber Co. coming to this place in 1869.
In August, 1871, the Relief Society was organized
and she was one of the first teachers chosen, in
which capacity she labored unlil the day of her
death; she would sometimes walk two aud three
miles, when she was over seventy-five years of
age, to get to her meetings; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint. A loving
mother and a friend to the poor and needy; she
leaves one son and nine grand children to mourn
her loss, she will be missed by all.
	DIANTHA A. MUNSEE, Sec.
Editor Woman's Evponent:—
	IT is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer Han-
nah Maria Russell Marchant who died Feb. 22nd,
1893.
	She came from England to Utah when she was
a young girl, and has lived in Peoa ever since.
	She was born August 6th, 1850. She mar-
ried John A. Marchant November, 1867, was the
mother of eleven children, six of whom are left
to mourn her loss. She was a member of Peoa
Relief Society from its organization and held the
office of Secretary about twelve years; and per-
formed the duties of that office to the best of
her ability. She was faithful and true to every
obligation in life.
	We shall miss her in every gathering, she was


helpful to the poor and willing to do all she could
to aid the sick and suffering. We realize our
loss is her gain, so we say rest in peace. 
	LYDIA E. WALKER Prest. R. S. 
	HARRIET M. MARCHANT, Sec.
	DIED in Kanosh Millard Co. Utah, Dec. 11th,
1892. Elizabeth Turner Barney daughter of Wal-
ter and Lydia Turner, born in Mattison Town-
ship, Green Co. Ohio, July 30th, 1808. She was
married to Lewis Barney in 1833, by whom, she
had six children, three of whom are living, Wal-
ter in Arizona, Henry and Joseph in Kanosh,
her son William Orson fourteen years old was
slain by Indians, in Circle Valley Utah, while
seeking the cows, in the year 1865. Sister Barney
joined the Church with her husband either in the
year 1843 or early in 1844, near Nauvoo and passed
through the mobbings and drivings, and uncom-
plainingly bore the privations and sufferings inci-
dent to those years of persecution. Came on to
Council Bluffs in 1846 and resided at Bullock's
Grove three or four years, moved to Six Mile
Grove, and came on to Utah in 1852 came to Span-
ish Fork and resided there about ten years; came
on south to Circle Valley and resided there until
driven out by hostile Indians. Afterward settled
in Kanosh where she has resided up to the time
of her death. Sister Barney was eminently a wo-
man of peace, of unwavering faith in the Gospel
as restored to earth through the Prophet Joseph
Smith and died with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. COM.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street. 
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping don[-] to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.	
	WEST TEMPLE STREET, 
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER &. STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders [---]
[illegible line] promptly responded to [illegible line]
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

