 VOL. 21.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY I, 1893. No.15.


CONTENTS:
	The Reformation. In Rural England—A Story.
The Closing of the Year 1892—C. C. R. Wells.
Lovely Bear Lake—E. B. Spencer.   The Nation-
al Council—Rachel Foster Avery.   Loan Exhibit.
In a Foreign Land—Sarah McMurrin Hilton.   U.
W. P. Club—Gladys Woodmansee.   R. S. Re-
port.    Phillips Brooks—Julia   Ward  Howe.
Notes and News.  Mrs. Lucy S. Grant. Ellen Wal-
ters Winder.   Obituary.
	EDITORIAL:—The Origin of Woman’s Suffrage.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Freedom’s   Echo—Hyacinth.    The
Voyage of Life—E.  A.  Bennion.


[Column 1]
FREEDOM’S ECHO.

In the Western wilds of country,far from out life’s
	tutored sphere,
At the base of Rocky mountains,high and rugged
	low and bare.
Crystal streams and turbid rivers, there meander
	far and near,
Down the dark, deep, narrow canons, o’er the
	plains and desert’s glare.
Rushing on uninterrupted, mingling .with the
	ocean dear.
Here no fair and fertile valley, bids the weary
	traveler stay,
Verdant fields bedecked with flowers, dewy
	meadows are unknown
Only bleak and barren country, covered o’er,
	with sage-brush gray
Uninhabited and lonely, save the red-man’s war-
	like tone,
Here where solitude reposes, desolation holds
	full sway.
But though unattractive seeming, from the moun-
	tain-tops around,
Comes an echo soft and silv’ry, gliding o’er the
	sloping hills.
Whispered by the faintest breezes, till each tiny
	leaf is found,
Which repeats the glorious message, to the birds
	and-winding rills.
Till all nature shouts in gladness, “All with free-
	dom here are crowned.”
Low and sweet this free-born echo, reach the
	traveler’s listening ear.
Silencing the dread of bondage,that h followed
	in the past,
Making each brave, honest exile, free to cast
	away all fear,
Free to seek his God in rev’rence, with a freedom
	that shall last,
Free to live and love his country, free in all that
	makes life dear.
Far away from home and loved ones, treading
	many miles and long,
Bearing patiently privations, sorrows deep and
	pleasures few,
Wand’ring ever to the westward, guided by no
	instinct wrong,
But a wise and prudent leader, marked their
	course each day anew.
Till the morning beams lay scattered, o’er the
	valley wide and long.
Months of toil and ceaseless labor, thread the
	years now come and gone
Years'that yielded richest treasures, turned the
	red-man’s fiercest cries;

[Column 2]
Made the arid plain a heaven of fertility, ere
	long
Caused the treeless waste to blossom, into earthly
	paradise
Proved the industry, faith, courage, of that band
	footsore and wan.
Long, long years have slowly vanished, since
	that cry of freedom rose
Many soul’s have swelled their number, peace
	and happiness to reap
There remain but few reminders, that bring back
	the early woes,
And their true devoted leader, in the cold tomb
	calmly sleeps,
Where the floating flag of freedom, evermore
	shall find repose.
	HYACINTH.
ALPINE, Dec. 10th, 1892.


THE REFORMATION.

	LATER in his teachings, Luther with his
two edged sword, went out to strip the Pon-
tiff of his spoils, and was quite as earnest
against the Pope’s ecclesiastical authority in
Germany as against his temporal power in
Italy. “As a first step,” says he, “it be-
hooves us to expel from all the German
States,the Pope’s legates, and the pretended
benefits which they sell us at their weight
in gold; and which are mere impostures.
They take our money, and  for what?—for
legalizing ill-gotten gains,  for dissolving
the sacredness of oaths for teaching us to
break faith; for instructing us  in sin  and
leading us directly to hell.  Hear this,  Oh
Pope!   Not most holy, but most sinning!
May God from his throne on high, hurl thy
throne ere long to the bottomless pit.
	The Christian tribunal proceeded:  Hav-
ing summoned the Pope to his bar, he cited
before him all the corruptions which fol-
lowed in the train of the Papacy, and  be-
gan to sweep from the floor of the Church
the rubbish that encumbered it.
	He commenced with the Monks as fol-
lows: “Now then, I come to that slothful
crew  who  promise  much  but do little.
What I have to say to you is a  truth, both
sweet and bitter; it is that no more cloisters
must be built for mendicant friars,  God
knows we have enough already—and would
to heaven they were all leveled with  the
ground; vagabonding through the conntry
never has done, and never can do good.”
	The marriage of Ecclesiastics comes
next.  It was the first time that,  Luther
had spoken on that subject—“To what a
condition has the clergy fallen, and how
many Priests do we find burdened with wo-
men and children, and their bitter remorse,
while no one comes  to their aid.  It may
suit the Pope and the Bishop to  let things
go on as they list, but  for my part I will
deliver my conscience,  I will open my
mouth freely, let Pope, Bishop or whoever
will, take offence at it.
	We might for a moment glance at  the
effect of the New  Learning, as it was cal-
led, upon England.  King Henry’s quar-
rel with Rome, soon  snatched the Pro-
testants from the keener persecution which
troubled them after Wolsey’s fall.  The

[Column 2]
divorce, the renunciation of the Papacy,
the degradation of the Clergy, the suppres-
sion of the Monasteries.  The religious
changes fell like a series of heavy blows
upon the Priesthood of Rome.  From
persecutors they suddenly sank into men
trembling for their very lives.  At the
very onset of Cromwell’s changes, a party
of Suffolk boys, toughs in their very nature,
broke into the Church of Doverscourt tore
down a wonder working crucifix and burned
it in the field.  The suppression of the les-
ser Monasteries was the signal for a  new
outburst of ribald insult to the old religion.
The roughness, insolence, and extortion of
the  Protestant  commissioners  drove  the
whole monastic body to despair.  Some
sold their jewels and relics to provide for
the evil day they saw approaching.   Some
begged of their  own  will for dissolution.
It was worse when fresh ordinances ordered
the removal of objects of superstitious ven-
eration, embittered  by  the  insults with
which it was accompanied.   Revolt and
nnovation was everywhere rampant, when
Mary,  so called, Bloody Mary—appeared
upon the scene.  She now more energetic
than the Protestants in the establishment of
their cause, violently overturned their sys-
tem and avenged her mother against her
father, by restoring the Papal sway, and
making heresy the unpardonable sin.  Re-
volt was everywhere stamped out in blood,
and warning was wasted on the fierce bigot-
ry of the Queen.  We acknowledge all her
recorded actions but let it  be remembered
she was the child  of  a  basely repudiated
mother, Catharine of Aragon,  who as the
daughter  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella of
Spain, was a Catholic of Catholics.
	Mary had been declared illegitimate, she
was laboring under an incurable disease
affecting her mind as well as her body.
She was the wife of Phillip the II of Spain,
a  monster of iniquity.  She inherited her
bigotry from her mother and strengthened
it by her marriage, and she thought in per-
secuting heretics,  she  was  doing God’s
service.
 	After a sad and bloody rule of five years
she died without leaving a child.   There
was  but  one  voice as to her successor.
Delirious shouts of joy were heard through-
out the land, “God save Queen Elizabeth.’’
No more burnings at Smithfield or behead-
ings on Tower Green.  No more of Spanish
Phillip and his pernicious bigots! toleration,
freedom and light.  The people of England
were ready for the golden age and the gold-
en  age  had come.   Wonderful was the
change.  With Elizabeth began a reign the
like  of  which  the world had never seen.
A  great  and   brilliant  crisis in  English
history, in which the old Order passed away
and the new was inaugurated.


HALF a million dollars has been presented
to Hamburg, Germany, by Herrvon Don-
ner, a native of that city, to found a wo-
man’s hospital in honor of a woman physi-
cian, Dr. Michelsen, to whose skill he be-
lieves he is indebted for his wife’s recovery,
from a dangerous illness.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XVIII.
	THE visit of Lady  Anna  Walton  to the
old home and to her cousin was very pleas-
ant, and proved to her old friends how true
and womanly  she  was  in  her  affections,
and that time and  travel  and  new  scenes
could not wean her from the old, nor change
her  friendship  towards   those  beloved  in
earlier days.   It was quite remarkable that
she should  have  so  much  native  dignity
and elegance,and be so constant and sincere,
considering the pernicious teaching  and ex-
ample of French  governesses; but it was
due in a great measure to the influence and
sound judgment of cousin  Jane, and also
to the inheritance of a  noble  ancestry, in
fact  Lady  Anna had good  blood in  her
veins.
	She  thoroughly  appreciated  now  the
sensible  advice  of  her   wiser and more
discreet cousin,and clung to her as though
she were her  mother  or older sister;  she
seemed to care less for Lady Walton senior,
and to be less  infatuated  with society; in
fact she had begun to  comprehend the res-
ponsibilities of married  life and looked to
her cousin as the examplar of all that was
beautiful and lovely as a wife  and mother;
and yet she felt her love for  Maitland  sur-
passed in quality that of Jane  for the  doc-
tor, and it astonished her to see how deliber-
ate and calm Mrs. Bland  was on all  mat-
ters of equal interest to husband and wife
whereas she was impulsive, exacting and
selfish.
	Lady Walton  decided to return  to Lon-
don without her  cousin  and  insisted upon
her promising  a  visit  during  the  coming
winter, which plan  was  presented  to  the
doctor and agreed to before  her  departure,
although the doctor  was  reluctant, yet he
wished he might attend  his  former  ward
instead   of  another   physician,  and  was
aware one would be needed ere long.
	The parting was much more affecting than
when Anna  had  started  on  her  wedding
tour, and many tears were shed  and kisses
interchanged,  for both ladies felt  the near-
ness  of kin and the bonds  of womanhood
that united them  in  common  sympathy.
As for Maitland he had paid little attention
to his wife during her  visit occupying  her
time  in  hunting, fishing  and  racing, and
among his former associates, “a jolly good
fellow;” Anna knew he was less tender and
scrupulously attentive   but  reasoned that
when she had him all to  herself again, he
would be more devoted, in fact made every
excuse possible as women ever do for those
beloved.   She would give up all for him
while he made no sacrifice for her, and was
rather glad to show him how  willingly she
relinquished all her old preferences for his
dear sake.   His mother was very unhappy,
the   father   was a   helpless   invalid and
chronically jealous, and  poor Lady Walton
really had a sad time of it;  far   different to
the  palmy days  of her earlier womanhood
when she had been considered the reigning
belle in the locality  where she  lived, and
one who always created a sensation among
society   women   in   London   during   the
fashionable season.
	Lady Walton was a gifted woman intel-
lectually and now that  she was  left much
to herself and to wait upon  an invalid hus-
band,   her thoughts   turned   more in the
direction of such pursuits and small charities
to those about  her   household and in her
immediate vicinity.   This gave her  some
satisfaction, and she also scribbled consider-

[Column 2]
ably for a lady of her time quite out of the
ordinary  routine  of  titled dames, and  in
fact she began to realize that she was no
longer young, and it had a sort  of depress-
ing effect  that  was in  a measure  salutary,
though it is not strange that she  should re-
pine and grieve when shut  out, as  it were,
from those who had flattered  and worship-
ped at her shrine of beauty and accomplish-
ments.    The fact was she had nothing sub-
stantial  to  fall  back   upon;  soured  with
disappointments and vexed almost beyond
endurance with the repinings of her hus-
band  whom she  could never  please;  not
even when she  made  every  exertion to do
so;  more  often,  however,  they  quarreled
and sometimes Lady  Walton looked  upon
her life, not only as a failure but a burden.
All aimless lives such as hers had been, be-
come monotonous when  by  circumstances
one is compelled  to  leave  the  bustle and
turmoil of the gay world,and retire to home
life and country  pleasures.   The ambition
for show and vanity that had  characterized
the life  of this  beautiful  and  attractive
lady had  received a  severe blow, almost a
chastisement, and  yet she could  not  find
consolation in religion never having devoted
time or attention to the subject,instead hav-
ing lived  in   quite   another   atmosphere
where those higher  and  holier aspirations
of the soul were held in a sort of irreverence.
	Lord Walton  would not even conform to
the usages and obligations of the Church of
England except as his position required him
to,and his wife had never given the slightest
thought to such matters, save  when some
fashionable friend  had interceded with her
for  her influence     in   some    charitable
undertaking.
	Lady Walton was much interested in her
son’s wife and  wanted to spend  the winter
in  London,  made  up  her  mind  to do  so
even against  the  protest  of  her  husband,
who declared it was only a  whim, and he
could not consent to her absence.
	“I shall  go  however, with  or  withont
your approval,”  said   Lady  Walton  one
evening after they  had  argued  the  point,
rather excitedly.    ‘‘I cannot endure this
sort of thing much longer and besides Anna
has  no  mother  to  be  with her  or  sister
either, and it is my duty.”   “Duty, echoed
her  husband,  duty  indeed,  have  you  no
sense of the duties of  a  wife, no doubt you
will rejoice  to see the  families  of Walton
and Hilliard still futher united in another
generation, there  seems to  be a fatality in
the affair, why  should  my son fall in love
with that girl?   Only that you were infatu-
ated with the father,” and this in a  tone of
bitter exasperation.
	“One would think you might be satisfied
when the  lineage is yours, don’t you want
your name perpetuated?”
	“That might have been done as easily if
Maitland had chosen a Chatham or a Mowry
why the deuce should he go after that Hil-
liard girl when there were dozens to choose
from?”
	“Because she was the most lovely and at-
tractive girl  in all the  country  round, and
you yourself my Lord, cannot help confess-
ing that.”
	“The girl  is  well enough, sweet-spoken
and accomplished hasn’t much spirit though,
too  lackadaisical  for  my  liking,  nothing
very fine about her, common place in fact,
her father was common  enough  withal his
high temper and aristocratic notions, mar-
ried a gipsy and brings her son here to rank
with gentleman, disowns  him  in his  life-
time.”

[Column 3]
	“You know  why  he  married  beneath
him,” said Lady Walton now fully roused,
but repenting the moment  she had spoken,
lest he should make a scene, Lord  Walton
screamed, “yes I do know, and you repent,
no doubt,  not having been the companion of
his solitude,  the  mistress  of that  tumble
down castle, you never forget to  taunt me
with this dissolute old Baron, from whom I
saved you, what sort  of  life would  a  wo-
man  fond  of society have had with him?
You ought to be very grateful to me for the
part I played in this matter, tho’ you never
knew it all, nor ever  will now he is  dead.”
	Lady Walton controlled her  temper well,
she knew more  than he  was aware of, but
was too wise to betray   the  knowledge she
had gained  on  that eventful  night  when
the Baron had unlocked the  portals of that
buried past.
	“Then there   is  something  to  disclose
more than  I  know,   well keep  the  secret
buried I have no wish  or  desire to hear it,
for what could it avail now  be it  what it
might,  we  are  neither  of us  young, and
should not repine at our lot, while we have
our children left to maintain the honor and
dignity  of  the  house  and  name   of the
family.”
	“Your moralizing is new Helen methinks
when  did  you   become  so  much of  a
philosopher, then  I  suppose  you will give
up this visit  to London, and  content your-
self playing  checkers  with  me  instead of
renewing  acquaintance   with  my former
companions in the gay metropolis, well  for
you, they are not  all  to  be  trusted  when
husbands are  rheumatic  and must keep at
home, I’m glad Helen  you are so  reason-
able.”
	“I shall certainly go  to London Henry,
but if you cannot remain here  I  will take
you with me, and wait upon  you there, but
go I must and will.   There will  be some
society in the  house, Dr.  Bland  and wife
and that may help me to pass the time more
easily,   Mrs.  Bland  you remember is the
most clever woman and may even  interest
you.   I recollect your  telling me  the high
opinion Burke  and  Hemenway had of this
young woman years ago,  do  you  recall
what they said of her?”
	“Yes I have not forgotten, but  I do not
admire such masculine  women,  know as
much as men, can talk on any  subject,  fit
to sit in Parliament,  none of that for  me,
couldn’t be under  the same roof with her;
rules her  husband, will ruin  his practice
doubtless,  had  no  dower  to  bring  him
either poor fellow.”
	“But he was desperately in love with her
and as for the  dower, her  uncle left her a
legacy, and she has a son that  is somewhat
of a dower for  the old doctor, who  might
have been her father  by his  age.  She will
not interfere with you—no fear of  that, she
would soon observe your antipathy  for wo-
men of opinions;” and so the dispute ended
amicably without either giving in.
	Next morning Lady Walton  gave orders
to the household that everything  was to be
ready for the journey  to  London  within  a
week; she knew  the steward would carry
the news to  his master forthwith and she
was prepared to maintain her position even
if it cost a struggle.
	Lord Walton  fretted   and  fumed  and
swore vigorously but it had  no effect upon
his wife unless to make her more determined
to go, and  in less than  a week, they  were
packed inside the family coach and journey-
ing  towards  the    capital.   Luckily   the
Doctor,  who   attended   the  invalid,  had


entered into the plan, believing the change
would be beneficial to his patient and urging
him to try it.
	The Waltons had got comfortably fixed
before Dr. Bland and his wife arrived, Lady
Wlaton determined not to go to their own
house but stay with Maitland that she
might see something of life and not be
buried alive in the great city as she express-
ed it.  Lady Anna was very glad to have
her there, thinking Maitland would remain
more at home, for he was seldom with her,
and she had grown quite nervous about
him, dreading to know where he spent his
time, for entreat him as she might he per-
sisted in staying away.  Indeed she had
thought that when her cousin Jane came,
he might be more neglectful than ever, but
fancied he would be more attentive to his
mother and that things would shape them-
selves more favorably.  She was over-sen-
sitive and slept little, he could see her eyes
were sad but it failed to keep him at home;
she'll be better by and bye he thought, and
recklessly pursued his recreant course re-
gardless of consequences.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VOYAGE OF LIFE.

WE start across life's sea with shout and song,
Gathering our cargo as we sail along,
Good deeds, kinds words, dear friends, bright
	gems of thought,
These are among the treasures to be caught.
We dive deep down in wisdom's realm so fair,
To cull her dainty jewels rich and rare;
To deck our ship, that o'er life's mystic sea
No clouds may come to dim its brilliancy.
Let not the salt sea spray dash o'er our freight,
To tarnish it, diminish worth or weight,
Ster straight ahead, let no false light betray,
Breakers are hid beneath, each side the way.
Now as we near mid-ocean, storms arise,
And murky clouds and mist, o'er spread the skies
Then, when the troubled waters round us roar,
We cull our richest gems from Sorrow's store.
Sweet Faith and trust now meet us, oft we trace
'Neath Sullen waters, Mercy's smiling face
Then when through shifting clouds the sun ap-
	pears,
We, to our store have added, grateful tears.
Some goodly ships are hastened into port,
Their time for gathering cargo is but short,
The Owner calls in accents low and kind,
They pass us by, and leave no trace behind.
Some laugh their ships with promise fair and
	bright,
A long and happy voyage, greets their sight;
The sea is calm and still,no cloud is seen
Even faintly mirrored on its glistening sheen.
Why should they toil?  The heavens are full of
	days,
'Tis sweet to linger in life's pleasant ways,
Why haste?  The distance hides the far-off shore
They soon can load their ships with richest store.
And thus they drift along in idle pleasure,
In keeping with the waves soft swishing measure
No one to steer, no steady hand to guide,
While treacherous quicksands whirl on every side.
"Oh!  see the storm-cloud gathering thick and
	fast,
Will ye not labor ere the day is past
Can ye not hear the angry waters roar
And o'er ye, see the eager petrel soar?"
Oh!  come to us, We'll help you, fall in line
Our Captain guides us with a power divine,
We'll show you where bright, shining pearls lie,
Come now and gather in a full supply.


With straining eyes we watch the fated ships,
As idly on the wave each heaves and dips,
Alas! they do not heed the warning cry,
Too late, too late, the blinding storm is nigh.
Thrice happy be, who when his voyage o'er
Has life's best gifts and graces in his store,
Who, when the Master Owner calls "Return,"
Presents his ship well laden from stem to stern.
	E. A. BENNION.
SALT LAKE CITY Jan. 26th, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE CLOSING OF THE YEAR 1892.

	I DO not know a more prolific theme,
nor one that would be more interesting,
than the one I have chosen, but I fear that
in the hurry and bustle of the closing year
shall fail to do it justice. 
There are many things before us to con-
template if we had time to devote to their
contemplation, but we are truly living in a 
fast age when all things seem to be hasten-
ing, to their final consummation, there seems
to be a wild rush by many after wealth,
while others are strugling for a bare pit-
tance, some are almost solely devoted to
pleasure, while duty stands in the back-
ground totaly neglected. Strife is rampant
in families in neighborhoods in
municipalities in States, and I have not had
time to read the Congressional news during
the present session, but the closing scenes
of the last one, were about as stormy, as
we would suppose that cultivated gentlemen
and lawmakers of a great supposably civil-
zed nation such as ours, could make it.
	Indeed one might think to look around
them, and read the newspapers, that peace
was taken from the earth, and yet we are
living in the last days, when people are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for I be-
lieve that not only the Latter Day Saints
have faith in his near advent but the whole
Christian world seems to feel more or less
the Spirit of the times, and that great events
are about to transpire. Many shifting
and changing scenes are constantly passing
before us, like a moving panorama but as I
have only to deal with the clos-
ing of the year, I will try to portray our
situation in a measure as it is to day. We
as a people are blest with the sunshine of
peace, and with a good degree of prosperity,
also with a fair proportion of health and
strength for all of which we should be very,
very grateful to our Heavenly Father and
with the close of this year (although as a
rule I am not given to spasmodic New Year’s
resolutions) we should make a great effort,
with His help, to make the Year 1893 a
more fruitful one of good works, and de-
votion to Him and His cause than the out-
going one has been.
	The close of the present year finds many
mportant subjects before us, a few ol which
shall mention the autagonism betwixt
capital and labor, the peculiar amnesty
granted to some of our brethren, and still
greater than all other things are the World’s
Columbian Fair, and the completion and
dedication of our beautiful Temple of the
World’s Fair I shall not have much to say
only that it is expected to be one of the
most important events that has occurred in
the history of the world, and its magnitude
so great, that one’s mind can hardly grasp it
just think we have had ward fairs, county
fairs, city fairs, and Pri-
mary fairs, but this will be the World’s
Fair! All the world is expected to contrib-

[Column 2]
ute to it, all the world is expected to go to
it. Chicago is the favored city where so
much of interest will be gathered together,
Chicago henceforth, no doubt will consider
herself crowned Queen but to the hearts
of the true Latter-day Saints, Chicago apd
the World’s Fair, will fall into insignificance
when compared to the more important
event of the dedication of the Holy Temple
of our God!
	Think of the millions that have died
without the Gospel! Whose spirits await
redemption! Think of the labor of love
that lies before us, in assisting in that Holy
house to bring to pass that redemption!
Are we ready for it? Are our hearts, and
homes set in order? The Lord has said,
“He would suddenly come to his Temple?”
if he should do so at the dedication thereof
should we be ready to meet him? Or would
the parable of the ten virgins be fulfilled
and find us all asleep. “No man knoweth
the hour of his coming,” but let us scan
the situation, as it presents itself to us at
the close of this year, and study the signs
of the times, and square our lives in ac-
cordance with what should be required
providing that great and important event
were to transpire, that though we may be
asleep, we may at least be found among
those who will have oil in their vessels,
and their lamps trimmed and burning.
	C. C. R. WELLS.


For the EXPONENT:
		LOVELY BEAR LAKE,
	Seen from different places, this Lake pre-
sents many phases, and Summer and
Autumn months gave varied and beautiful
pictures now retained in memory.
	The first, a summer day. Glimpses of
the dark blue lake between vivid green trees;
a long cool ride along its banks under over-
hanging trees, brown mountains on the
West, the placid Lake on the East, Garden
City and Fish Haven gemming its borders,
until, passing Fish Haven, the trees vanish-
ed, and in their place broad green meadows
spread to meet the lapping of the waters of
the Lake,that stretched Eastward.
	Second, a picnic party, gathered at Fish
Haven, merry and joyous beneath the trees.
	The hazy blu of morning, and bright sil-
very shimmering sheen had departed and as
afternoon advanced, a deeper blue air spread
the Lake still growing bluer, as the hours
wore on.
	Third—a noon-day Lake scene. Stand-
ing midway on the Northern shore mag-
nificent desolation met the eye. No trees
were apparent to soften the outlines. The
Lake stretched Southward, brown mountains
rose on the East. The Western mountains
yellow and red with Autumn glories, beauti-
ful blue was the Lake, breaking into laugh-
ing ripples of silvery whiteness.
	Fourth—a gorgeous Autumn afternoon
scene. The trees decked in golden tints,and
maples in flaming scarlet, enough green left
by Jack Frost to set off the brilliant colors
of his jacket to the best advantage. Lovely
between the openings of the trees lay the
blue waters of the Lake. Points decked
with gorgeous trees run into the Lake, and
at the Southern part, the blue sky above,
the clear blue Lake beneath, the shadows
of the Eastern mountains reflected on the
water, the blue ribbon of water between .he
shadows and the shore. Lake Loan in the
distance, Autumn trees fringing the Lake,
made a sweet, rich placid, beautiful picture
ever to be remembered.		E. B. SPENCER.


116						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 -	       -          Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 1st, 1893.


THE ORIGIN OF WOMAN’S
				SUFFRAGE.

	A TENDENCY to political freedom and in-
dependence seems to have become more
wide spread and intense ever since the reign
of Elizabeth of England; in fact that century
was a revolutionary period and an awaken-
ing with men and women in the matter of
liberty of conscience and individual rights,
and from that time women became more or
less distinguished in matters civil and
political as well as in literature and science.
	Without going into details we find in
America, Abagail Adams,Mary Warren and
Mrs. Bache, arguing and insisting upon wo-
man’s having representation in the govern-
ment;—Mrs. Warren was the sister of
James Otis author of the memorable saying,
“Taxation without representation is tryan-
ny,’’ Mrs. Bache was the daughter of Dr.
Franklin; however the first instance men-
tioned of a woman actually declaring that
the franchise should in justice be extended
to her sex, was Mrs. Hannah Lee Corbin
sister of Gen. Richard Henry Lee of
Virginia who replied to her on that occasion
that women had the right to vote in
Virginia; and it is a matter of record that
women did vote in that State at an early
day. Also that in 1776 the right to vote
was secured to the women of New Jersey
and that they exercised it for over thirty
years.
	But the famous struggle for woman’s
political emancipation grew out of the grap-
ple with slavery. Wm. Loyd Garrison
opened up the conflict on that question
when he established the Liberator, an Anti-
Slavery paper. His coadjutors were Wen-
dell Phillips, Charles Sumner, Theodore
Parker, Gerritt Smith and others of like
fame, and they were aided and in-
spired in their work by such women as
Lydia Maria Child, Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, Lucretia Mott, Abby Kelly, Helen
Garrison and Ann Greene Phillips, these
women both wrote and spoke with the
greatest force and fervor, and conservatives
in Church and state were alarmed, and war
was declared against these eloquent wom-
en, so that a double battle was forced upon
the abolitionists—for the rights of women
and the freedom of the slave. The doc-
trine of human rights was discussed anew
and exhaustively, and the platform and the
press teemed with arguments for woman’s
rights which are still being repeated in our
own day and time; but these women daunt-
lessly continued their work notwithstand-
ing opposition and persecution.


﻿In 1840, a World’s Anti-Slavery Conven-
tion was called to convene in London and
all the anti-slavery organizations in the
world were invited to send delegates, sever-
al American societies elected delegates six
or eight of them were women among them
were, Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Phillips. The
excitement caused by their appearance in
London was intense, the English
Abolitionists being much more conservative,
and those women who had come “had rent
the American Anti-slavery Societies in twain;
had been denounced from the pulpit and by
the press, and mobbed by the riffraff in the
street;”and the cry was “they who have
turned the world upside down have come
hither also;”—and they were if possible
more alarmed when they saw that the wo-
men delegates, who were not clad in the
Quaker garb—were young, cultivated and
refined.
	A debate followed on the admission of
women, during which many of the men
delegates from America sided with the
English opposition. The battle for wo-
man’s rights was fought over again on the
other side of the water with moral force
and logic, as in America the year before.
Some of the noblest women of England
attended this convention as listeners and
spectators and the lesson was not lost upon
them. When the vote was taken on the
admission of women delegates they were
excluded by a large majority. Wm. Loyd
Garrison had not yet arrived in London,
but when he was informed of the decision
of the convention, he refused to take his
seat with the delegates, and throughout
the entire session which lasted ten days he
remained an absolutely silent spectator in
the gallery; one other delegate followed
his example Nathaniel P. Rogers of Con-
cord, New Hampshire and editor of an
Anti-Slavery paper.
	This London Convention marked a new
era in the cause of equal rights, and at the
close of the exasperating and insulting de-
bates Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, (then a young bride who had ac-
companied her husband who had been
chosen a delegate,) decided to hold a Wo-
man’s Rights Convention on their return to
America; meantime the women who had
taken hold of the subject kept agitating
these questions, and prepared for the com-
ing crisis. This convention was called
for the 19th, and 20th, of July 1848 at
Seneca Falls New York the time seeming ripe.
	Daniel O Connor said to these leaders
in the movement, “Demand the uttermost
and you will get something.”
	These women were outspoken in terms and
demanded, “equal rights in colleges and
universities, trades and professions; the
right to vote, to share in all political offices,
honors and emoluments; to complete
equality in marriage, equal rights in prop-
erty, in wages for equal work, and in mi-
nor children; to make contracts; to sue and
be sued; to personal freedom; and to serve
on juries especially when women were
tried.”
	This first Convention adjourned to meet
in Rochester Aug. 2nd, 1848. Immense
crowds were in attendance and the greatest
interest manifested in debates and discus-
sions. Afterwards conventions were held
in Salem Ohio 1850, Akron 1851, in Mas-
silon 1852, in Ravenna 1853. Advocates
of the cause increased; the historic women
connected with this movement are those
whose deeds have been handed down to us
well known at the present day, Frances D.

[Column 2]
Gage, Jane G. Swisshelm, Celia Burr,
Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Ernestine Rose, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline M. Severance and
others.
	The first National Woman’s Suffrage
Convention was held in Worcester Mass.
October 23, and 24, 1850—nine states were
represented—the audiences were it is said
“at the white heat of enthusiasm.” Among
the noted people who espoused the cause
were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore
Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, Wendell
Phillips, Thomas W. Higginson, Wm. J.
Bowditch, Abby May Allcott, Ednah D.
Cheney and many more grand men and wo-
men, who gave their talents and their wealth
to the furtherance of the cause.
	A dozen years of pioneer work, petitions
to legislatures for the modification of unjust
laws, and the increased circulation of papers
in the interest of women created an in-
fluence that was felt for good all the country
through. Then came the Civil War when
all reform work was suspended temporarily
and women began a collossal work of
relief and philanthropy. Clara Barton in
hospitals and bringing order out of chaos,
hope out of despair, Clara Barton at Ander-
sonville where 12000 soldiers had suc-
cumbed to the horrors of the military
prison awoke the gratitude of the nation.
	Since the war women have organized on
a scale of great magnitude. It is not pos-
sible to tell of the progress of this great
upheaval, in woman’s advancement, only
the briefest mention can be made; but our
readers are perhaps aware that after the
activity awakened upon many questions
of great importance, in 1869 the result
culminated in the forming of the great
national organizations styled the National
Woman Suffrage Association, and the
American. The National established its
headquarters in New York,and published a
weekly paper the Revolution edited by Mrs.
Stanton and Miss Anthony. The American
had its headquarters in Boston and the
Woman's Journal was founded which is
still in existence.
	Though the Revolution afterwards,
through some unwise contributors, became
so decidedly radical and erroneously pro-
nounced that it was denounced by those
who had before been its firm supporters.
	The State Woman Suffrage Associations
organized in different parts of the country
became auxiliary to one or the other of
these parent Associations, and in some few
instances to both. The National invariably
held its annual Conventions in Washing-
ton while Congress was in session—the
American itinerated from state to state
where ever the greatest amount of mission-
ary work seemed possible.
	After twenty years of separate work a
union of the two national organizations
wras affected in 1890 under the composite
title of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association. These bare statements
of facts do not give a hint of what has
been accomplished during these last forty
years but in thirty states and territories wo-
men have been admitted to certain
privileges in the way of representation;
and that the outlook at the present time is
more hopeful than ever before we, who are
working in these great organizations of wo-
men can plainly understand.


THE Wells Memorial Institute of Bos-
ton amended its by-laws last week so as to
make women eligible to membership.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893. This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected. There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STEVENSON gave a
party to a few old time friends, December
29,and an elaborate dinner,and the ladies en-
joyed themselves as usual when she enter-
tains. She is one of the genial hostesses
who knows just how to entertain her
guests, and never fails. She has been
noted for her hospitality for some years past,
and her popularity in this respect is not
waning but on the increase. The company
all testify to the good time participated in,
as well as the excellence of the viands and
the genuine welcome always extended to
the honored guests.
	MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR gave a pleasant
party, Friday evening Jan. 13th, to a few
of her intimate friends. The rooms were
very handsomely fitted up and the decor-
ations of smilax and flowers daintily ar-
ranged, made a picture charming to remem-
ber; the refreshments were very delicious
and elegantly served, and the whole affair
was a perfect success. Mrs. Taylor is one
who shines brightly at home as well as in
public, and knows how to entertain her
guests in the truly hospitable style. Each
lady had a small bouquet of flowers and
smilax tied with ribbon,and card with name,
date, and motto daintily tied with ribbon.
After the repast when all had gathered 
again in the parlor, Mrs. Taylor requested
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young to preside, and a
sort of “love feast” began by singing and
prayer, each one present speaking as she
felt prompted to do, by the good spirit that
prevailed. It was a very happy gathering
of a few congenial souls, whose desires and
aims in life are similar, and who thoroughly
enjoy these brief respites from worldly
care.
	ON Tuesday January 31st, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the venerable and respected
President of the Relief Society celebrated
the anniversary of her 72nd, birthday.
The party was given by her daughters at
the residence of Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie
and was quite as enjoyable, as it was pos-
sible to make the happy event. President
Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
and several members of the family of the
late President Brigham Young. Bishop
Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward and Bishop
Whituey and wife of the Eighteenth Ward
were among the assembled guests. Miss
Maude May Babcock gave some of her
characteristic recitals and quite astonished
as well as delighted the company by her
artistic character representations, and won-
derful changes of voice and manner. Her
originality in rendering the most difficult
compositions is a continual surprise and de-
light to those who listen. She has what
the poets would call a “witching voice”
and the perfect cultivation of tones and
modulation is surpassingly sweet and musi-
cal. Of the refreshments on this auspicious

[column 2]
occasion we need only say that everything
was excellent, and all enjoyed the feast of
good things as well as “the feast of reason
and the flow of soul,” also the enchanting
music, and for our dear “Aunt Zina,” as
she is lovingly designated may she live un-
til her soul is satisfied, and always be as
greatly honored and beloved in Israel as she
is at the present time.
	ON Tuesday January 24th, an anniver-
sary party was given by Mrs. Amelia F.
Young widow of the late President Brig-
ham Young, at her residence on S. Temple,
1st West Sts. About forty of her friends
gentlemen and ladies assembled by invitation
to honor the day, being the anniversary of
her marriage thirty years before, it seemed
a fitting time to commemorate, and as Mrs.
Young had been some time abroad and had
recently opened her house, it was quite
pleasant to call together a few of those who
were formerly in the habit of visiting her
in the more “palmy days.” Mrs. Young
had been accustomed to entertain on a
large scale in the late President’s lifetime,
and knows exactly how to manage such
affairs. It is needless to say she is a fine
hostess the fact is well established. On
this particular occasion, there were present
of the Apostles John Henry Smith, Heber
J. Grant, Abraham H. Cannon and Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, with other honor-
able gentlemen and quite a number of
distinguished ladies, too many to mention
separately. The evening passed off delight-
fully, with greetings of old friends, brilliant
conversation and exquisite instrumental
music by Mrs. Young’s niece Miss Folsom.
The refreshments were delicious and
daintily served and the guests were so
charmed that time for parting came all to
soon, ere they were aware of the lateness of
the hour. The one drawback to the en-
joyment was the indisposition of Mrs.
Young’s father, Bro. Folsom, who was not
well enough to attend the party, that evening.
Mrs. Young has, since her return home,
devoted much tmie to the interests of the
World’s Fair exhibit for Utah and is a
very efficient worker in the Salt Lake
County Board.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL. 

	THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF
THE UNITED STATES,by its approval of the
address of its first President, Miss Frances
E. Willard, delivered at a public session of
the Council in Washington in 1891, stands
committed to carry out, as far as they are
practicable, the suggestions of work and
organization set forth in that address.
	Among other things it is hoped to estab-
lish in the most important cities of the
country, and finally in all the places where
women have developed interest in the pub-
lic welfare, Local Councils of Women, the
organization of which being in harmony
with the general plan of the National Coun-
cil will, in the end, entitle them to send
representatives to the sessions of the Nation-
al Council and form a sort of a Lower House
while the direct representatives of ideas
nationally organized will form an Upper
House in the National Council.
	The advantages to be gained by local
organizations joining hands to form Local
Councils are the same as the advantages to
be gained by the national organizations
joining to form a National Council; namely
the multiplication of the moral forces of the
place for the advancement of causes of


such a general interest, as to command the
favorable consideration of women engaged
in different lines of work.
	Already Minneapolis, Minn., Providence,
R. I., and Indianapolis, Ind., have Local
Councils of Women which include the most
important local organizations of women in
those cities. In Portland, Maine, this
month will see the completion of the organi-
zation of a Local Council, and initiatory
steps toward forming these Councils have
already been taken in Memphis, Tenn., and
Detroit, Mich.
	In pursuance of this plan, the National
Council has printed a typical constitution
for Local Councils which, with a brief his-
tory of the formation of the Local Council
of women of Indianapolis, may be had up-
on application to the undersigned.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
Cor. Sec. National Council of Women.


LOAN EXHIBIT.

[WOMAN'S DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR.]
	IT is very desirable that all persons pos-
sessing rare and beautiful articles, of what-
ever description, should allow them to be
displayed in the Utah building at the com-
ing World’s Fair. In order that these may
be collected, properly classified and safely
transported, Territorial and county commit-
tees have been organized for the collection
of a private loan exhibit. This is to con-
sist of all kinds of useful, ornamental,
antique, curious, artistic and historical ob-
jects, whether made in this Territory or
elsewhere—such as rare vases, bric-a-brac,
embroideries and laces (ancient and modern),
objects of personal adornment, furniture,
carvings, curtains, rugs, and in fact, any-
thing which will add to the beauty or inter-
est of our own building.
	These committees are now ready for
work and respectfully ask the co-operation
of the public in their labors. There is
much to be done, and the work will be
greatly hastened if all persons possessing
articles which they are willing should be
displayed will send them in to the commit-
tees at once.
	All exhibits must be handed in before the
1st, of March, and will be subject to in-
spection by committees appointed for that
purpose and approved or selected by them.
All accepted exhibits will be taken to
Chicago and returned, free of charge, to
the exhibitor.
	All exhibits for Salt Lake City and
county should be sent to Mrs. George D.
Pyper, 123 Third Street, chairman of the
county committee. Exhibits of outlying,
counties should be sent to Mrs. Wm. Groes-
beck, chairman of the Territorial committee,
27 E. Fourth South street.


IN A FOREIGN LAND.

		FAGOLII, UPOLU, SAMOA.
[To the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
	of the Eighth Ward Salt Lake City.]
MY DEAR YOUNG SISTERS:—
	YOU have no doubt heard ere this, some-
thing of this far away land and would be
pleased to hear even more.
	I often think of you, and of the good
times we have had in our mutual improve-
ment meetings, and I can realize now, a
great deal more than I could then, the bene-
fits derived from attending to onr little
meetings, and endeavoring to perform our


[Column 1]
﻿part of the “work” in connection with the
rest of the daughters of Zion. When I
lived in your ward, and mingled with you
in all kinds of meetings and amusements, I
little thought that I would ever live among
this dark skinned people in this distant land,
but, the fact that such is the case, is another
evidence to us that God reigns, that his
Priesthood is upon the earth, and that we
as his children do not know what is in store
for us.
	I wish you could just “dropin” on us
some beautiful morning and take a peep at
our little island home and its surroundings,
as it would, no doubt, interest you very,
very much.
	Our little house is situated only a few
rods from the beach, and when the “tide is
in” our sea bathing is simply grand, and, as
you can readily imagine, we enjoy it im-
mensely.
	As I am writing this morning, (for it is
only 9 a. m.) it is raining heavily and has
been all night, and, it is so dark, we are
compelled to have our lamp lighted; it does
not know how to rain in the land of Zion,
compared to the way it rains here. It hard-
ly seems possible that in dear Utah’s vales
everything is cold and freezing, and that you
are all clad in warm winter clothing and are
fain to spend your evenings indoors by the
warm fire-side, while we who are here can
go out on the plantation for a moonlight
stroll, and that too, without even the sem-
blance of a wrap, and we even carry our
fan in our hand, at times, and fan ourselves
as we walk slowly on; our evening walks
are taken oftener I believe for the purpose
of speaking to each other of home and loved
ones, than for any other reason. Our
thermometer registers from 80 to 90 de-
grees on an average, but very, very often
goes over 100.
	The natives here are a strong healthy,
race of people, and are very kind and
hospitable. Those of them who have al-
ready accepted the Gospel, as well as a
few who are favorably impressed, seem to
take pure delight in providing for the wants
of the Elders. Their food, some of which
is not at all inviting to say the least, proves
very nutritious to the brethren, who are
compelled to live entirely on native food
while out with the natives; they live with
the natives all the time, save when they
come to the Mission House, here at Fagolii,
for their mail, which arrives once a month.
	On the morning of Saturday Dec. 24th,
1892 we were looking anxiously out, over
the “deep blue sea” in the hope of seeing
the Mail Steamer you see, we were
anxious to receive our mail that day, as it
was Christmas Eve, and the good ship
“Monowai” was to be our “Santa Claus.”
We waited and watched until 10 a. m.,
without any sign of the steamer, and then,
(as provisions had to be purchased from
Apia, some three miles distant) the brethren
prepared the boat, and started out; when
they had been gone but a little while, Sis-
ter Stevens and I caught sight of the smoke
of the Steamer, and called to Bro. Mc.
Cune, (who had been left here to keep us
company,) to come and see, and he too
decided that it was indeed the steamer; of
course that meant that our letters from
home were nearly here, and that our breth-
ren would bring them home with them
when they came from Apia. We at once
proceeded to decorate the house, or parlor,
for “Xmas,” The leaves and grasses here,
suitable for such a purpose, are numerous
and varied, and some, of them are very

[Column 2]
beautiful. We had small branches with the
ripe fruit hanging from them, also some
with the green fruit peeping from among
the leaves, not only these, but we had some
with the lovely white and pink blossoms
in full bloom, and, strange as it may seem,
the ripe and green fruit, as did the blossoms
also, come from one tree. We hung them
all around the room, in every conceivable
shape and place and put “Merry Xmas.”
over the door; we then hung some extra
large leaves from the centre of the roof over
the hanging lamp, (I won’t describe it)
forming an umbrella, or I believe it was
more of a bell in shape, and when we had
thrown some bright ribbons, (which had
been brought from home) carelessly over
the top, our center piece was complete.
	Some of the natives came and looked in
at the door, and when they saw that we
were trying to beautify our home for Christ-
mas they went off, but soon returned with
large bouquets of lovely flowers, numbering
nine in all, which we placed on our centre
table and then, when it was set in place,
under the hanging lamp and “bell” our
little parlor presented a sight that was in-
deed pleasing to the eye.
	When the brethren returned from Apia,
they expressed their appreciation of our
labors, by uttering words of praise and ad-
miration for the appearance of our home.
We hastened to read our mail and as we all
received good news from our loved ones at
home, we were as “happy as could be” for
a Christmas Eve so far from parents, broth-
ers and sisters, and the associations of
relatives and friends. Some Elders who
were on their way to New Zealand brought
us a large valise filled with some of the
bounties of life, in the shape of—plum-pud-
ding, Christmas cake, honey, tomato pre-
serves, pickled onions and candy; this of
course added to the humble “bill of fare”
which had been decided upon for Xmas.
day. Mr. Hellesoe, the baker from whom
we purchase all our bread, (when we have
any,) also sent us two lovely cakes, so we
began to feel that we were going to have a
“feast of fat things.”
	On Sunday morning (Christmas Day) we
sang and prayed in native; we held our two
native meetings, and then in the evening
we held a meeting in English. At this
meeting we sang:
	Tho’ deep’ning trials throng your way
	Press on, press on! Ye Saints of God,
and after prayer by Prest. Browning, ye
sang:
	“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
We each bore our testimony, and closed by
singing:
	“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	We had a good time, and the Spirit
of God was in our midst.
	Monday Dec. 26th, 1892. This, of course
is the day we celebrate. We sang: “I
know that my Redeemer lives,” and after
prayers and breakfast were over, we at once
began to prepare for dinner. Prest. Brown-
ing had invited a few of the natives over to
eat “Christmas dinner” with us, and we
were expecting a good time. There is no
use of giving the preliminaries here, but
when dinner was announced, our tables
were laden with the following “goodies.”
Boiled chicken with soup (cooked in
American style.) Chicken cooked in true
Samoan style viz:—minus the feathers only,
and they were not taken off any too well.
We also had plenty of native food in the
shape of “Kalo” and “Palusami.” We

[Column 3]
had Christmas cake, rice pudding, pickled
onions, Utah honey, tomato preserves,
bread, butter, and rain water. Our soup
and pudding were in new tin wash basins
(that being the only kind of pan obtainable
here.)
	Our dusky guests were dressed up nicely
in light wrappers, that is, the female por-
tion of them, while the men present had
on their clean “lava-lava’s” (a piece of cloth
wrapped around the lower part of the
body.)
	It was amusing to see them eat their
chicken and pudding together, and then
their own cooked chicken with cake, and
so on. 
	I forgot to mention that we had green
corn and candy also, and water-melon too;
without saying anything of the lovely
bananas and pine apples we always have.
I know you’ll wish you were here, now
don’t you?
	The natives thought the tables were
lovely, with their white covers and the
shining dishes, and beautiful flowers on
them.
	We are never bothered here, with heating
water for dishes, as all of our dishes, as
well as our clothes, are washed in cold
water, (on account of the scarcity of
wood.)
	After dinner was over, “Tualele,” one of
the young ladies present, made the “Ava”
(native drink) and “Tetoai,” an old lady
who makes me think of our own “Aunt
Jane” passed it around. Our native sisters
insisted upon doing up the dishes, and they
hurridly washed them over and piled them
up in the wash-basin—not the pudding-pan,
but when they had dispersed to their homes
Sister S., and I were glad to embrace the
opportunity we had of washing the dishes
in our own style before putting them in the
cupboard.
	In the evening, after the natives had re-
turned and we had prayers and sang:
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion, tho’ now in
distant land,” the following programme
was rendered.
	Music by the band (Elders Mc Cune and
Hilton with harmonicas.) Recitation—
“Whistling in Heaven” by Sister Hilton,
Song— “Someday I’ll wander back again”
Prest. Browning. Song—“Samau,” and
the natives present. Music—by the band.
Song—“Last Night”—Elder H. L. Bassett.
Reading—"The Bob-o-link—Sister Stevens.
Song—“That is Love”—Elder C. E. Sum-
merhays. Song—by the natives. Reading
by Elder G. E. Abel. Song “Ella Rea”—
Elder L. A. Bailey. Music by the band.
Comic song—R. M. Stevens.
	After passing candy to the natives, Prest.
B—told them that it would be good for
them to go and after bidding “tofa” to
each other we were once more able to say
all we had to say in English. We had
lemonade and cake, and after “chatting”
and eating candy for a while, we retired
feeling that the pleasures of a Christmas on
Samoa far exceeded our expectations and
that we were in very deed blessed of the
Lord.
	I will have to close for this time as baby
is crying and, I have written part of this
with him on my lap already. I will per-
haps write again and tell you about the rats,
lizards, bugs etc, we see over here, and of
a great many more things that might be
interesting and amusing to you.
	The work of the Lord is progressing
nicely in this part of the world, and we are
living in hopes of having a great many


more embrace the Gospel, before the judg-
ments of God are poured out upon the
nations of the earth.
	Girls, appreciate your Mountain home.
Appreciate your dear, good parents, and
your peaceful surroundings, and last, but
not least, appreciate and take advantage of
the privilege you have of learning of the
ways of God.
	With kind love, and a “Happy New
Year” to all, in which Bro. Hllton joins, I
remain your sister in the Gospel of peace—
			SARAH MCMURRIN HILTON.
Dec. 29th, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly session of the club convened
at the WOMAN'S EXPONENT parlors Jan.
31st, 1893 at the usual hour.  Vice Prest.
Phebe C. Young presiding.  The usual
preliminary business having been disposed
of the following programme was rendered.
First an interesting and instructive prose
article on “the important events of the close
of 1892,” written and read by C. C. R.
Wells.  Second, a descriptive poem, “The
Old Family Bible,” L. S. Dickinson. Mary
A. Freeze then read “A Reverie” from the
pen of Lillie T. Freeze.  Gladys Wood-
mansee favored the company with instru-
mental music, followed by the reading of a
letter from Ellis R. Shipp M. D. descrip-
tive of her college life and pleasures, etc.
written in her usually easy and pleasing
manner.
	Lula G. Richards contributed a poem en-
titled “Wheat” which she read to the
club.
	The meeting was then thrown open for
discussion on various topics.
	The following committee was then voted
for, to asertain whether the suggestion of
N.V. Davis would be practicable, a native
stone in a setting of gold, so as to allow
space for the raised letters U. W. P. C.,
and to obtain particulars regarding the cost
etc. of the same.  Committee Ruth M. Fox,
L. S. Dickinson, N. V. Davis and L. G.
Richards, moved that each member con-
sider an appropriate motto for the club, and
come prepared to report on the same at the
February meeting.
	Moved that each member who does not
consider the motto, and come prepared to
report on the same at the next meeting,
shall be subject to a fine of twenty five
cents.  Both motions were seconded, put
to the house and unanimously carried.
	L. S. Dickinson extended an invitation
to the club to accept of her hospitalities on
St. Valentine’s Eve, Feb. 13th, which invi-
tation was duly acknowledged and accepted.
The following programme for Feb. 28th,
was then read.
	Roll call to be responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.  An article from Augusta J.
Crocheron.  Ella Hyde, selected article.
May Preston, song.  M. A. B. Freeze,
“Women in Journalism.” Josephine
Spencer, Character of short stories in cur-
rent Magazines.  M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
original article.  Benediction was pro-
nounced.
	Refreshments were then served and the
usual pleasant chat and social enjoyment
followed until the warning finger of time
bade the club disperse.
	Critic, Miss N. V. Davis.  Mrs. Ella
Hyde and Miss May Preston were voted
members of the club.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORT.

		SNOWFLAKE.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Snowflake Stake was held at Snowflake
Nov. 26th, 1892 President Emma S. Smith
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Prest.
Emma S. Smith addressed the conference,
felt thankful that conference time had rolled
around again. Spoke at some length on the
principle of faith and said “as it is a gift
from Heaven it should be carefully culti-
vated.” Urged the mothers to be more dil-
igent in attending to their duties, especially
in regard to their children, and hoped we
would always be found strengthening the
right side.
	Coun. Sarah Driggs made remarks.
Spoke of our duties in looking after the
poor, but felt as Bro. Kimball used to say,
that the better way is to provide labor and
pay them for it. Encouraged parents to
properly care for their children and see that
they behave well in company.
	Sister Jemina W. Smith bore testimony
to the truth of this work and said “if we are
humble and prayerful our trials will be
over-ruled for our good.”
	Sister Ellen Sainsbury reported the society
of Tuba City. They are striving to live as
the Gospel requires. Had never investi-
gated any other religion for she had felt
perfectly satisfied with our own.
	Sister Lilywhite reported the society of
Woodruff, meetings were well attended, the
testimony meetings in particular, and all
were trying to do right. Exhorted the
parents to attend the Sabbath Schools and
Primaries and keep a watchful care over
their little ones.
	Sister Ann Brewer gave a brief report of
the Pinedale society and said if we never
shrink a duty after a while we will become
like Nephi of old, believing we can do all
tilings we are required to do, and our child-
ren cannot fail to imbibe the same faith.
	The societies of Showlow and Snowflake
were reported by Sisters Mc’Niel and Mary
J. West.
	Sister Celia Hunt felt thankful to meet
with us after an absence of something over
eight years. While she had been away the
Lord had blessed her abundantly and she
could testify that He will always be a father
to the fatherless.
	Prest. Lorenzo H. Hatch then addressed
the conference. Was gratified with the re-
marks of the sisters. They certainly are
improving. It is impossible to please the
Lord and stand still. We expect tribulation
and are not disappointed in that respect.
Spoke upon the subject of faith and said
the sisters should be encouraged in their
labors.
	In the evening there was a meeting held
in the Society Hall, a neat brick building
recently erected by the sisters of Snowflake.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith said we now have
a room in the upper part of this house set
apart for the sisters to pray in. Our prayers
have been answered when we have met to
pray for the sick and we should be thankful
that we have this privilege.
	Spoke of the manner in which our young
people are led astray and gave some excel-
lent advice in regard to keeping them in the
right path.
	Sister Mary J. West compared our con-
dition to day with the time when our moth-
ers sat at the spinning wheel and cooked

[column two]
over the fire. Was glad to see the improve-
ment, for instead of doing so much un-
necessary work we can study and improve
our minds. The Lord wants his daughters
educated. Expressed her gratitude that
the Relief Society Hall was completed; it
has been built by the sisters of Snowflake
with five cent donations. Great praise is
due to Sister Driggs who has so faithfully
executed her duties, as business manager.
Also to Sister Flake and treasurer Sister
Fanny J. Willis.
	Remarks were also made by Coun. Sarah
Driggs, Ida H. Udall, Phebe Kartchner,
May H. Larson, Dena Willis, Ellen Sains-
bury and Annie Kartchner.
	The Holy Spirit was abundantly poured
out upon the speakers and the various sub-
jects touched upon were well calculated to
strengthen the faith and good desires of all
present.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec. R. S.


PHILLIPS BROOKS.

	So many sorrowful and affectionate tri-
butes will be paid to the memory of this
beloved pastor and prelate that it may al-
most seem superfluous for us to add to their
number.  But the roses and violets which
we bring to the funeral rites of our dear
ones are for ourselves, not for them, walk-
ing in the asphodel of heaven. It is our
debt which we recognize in these fond, sad
offerings.  Something we must bring to
express the love and sorrow which we feel.
	At the ceremonies of his interment on
Thursday, every beautiful device that
florist or friend could achieve combined to
make visible the glory of the perishable,
imaging with brief splendor the preciousness
of forms that are only lent to us for a time,
to be lost from sense and seen no more.
The flowers, too, image for us the love
which has its root deep in Nature, as they
have theirs in earth.  In the general ovation,
if we may use the word, which is offered
to the memory of the dead saint, the Jour-
nal has its own especial word to say.
	Phillips Brooks, like almost every eminent
philanthropist of the last forty years, was a
woman suffragist.  When the social un-
popularity of our own reform was at its
height, he did not hesitate to affix his name,
and the weight that went with it, to the
petition (one of many) which we were then
about to present to the Massachusetts
Legislature, asking for the political enfran-
chisement of women.  So may his petitions
be heard before the throne to which our
thoughts aspire in recalling him!  A little
later, when the voice of weeping is hushed,
it will be pleasant and profitable to recall
his good deeds in detail, and to dwell upon
his individual merits.  To-day, the wound
is too painful.  We can only bow to the
sudden bereavement, blessing the Providence
which gave, even for a short time, to the
world this true shepherd and Bishop of souls,
this apostle who could reconcile even the
differences of Christendom, as hard to
reconcile, perhaps, as any, through the
largeness of his Christ-like spirit, his faith
in all things divine, his charity for all things
human.			JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman's Journal.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. EMILY KEMPIN is the editor of a
new paper for women, just started in Zurich,
Switzerland,


MRS. MARY F. BARTLETT, of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, received in the Legislature seven
votes for U. S. Senator.
	A SUFFRAGE bill is pending in the Cali-
fornia Legislature, supported by petitions
with 15,000 signatures.
	THE National American Woman Suf-
frage Association will issue a printed re-
port of the proceedings of the convention
of 1893. This pamphlet will contain re-
port of National officers, reports of com-
mittees, plan of work for the year, im-
portant discussions,reports of state societies,
the amended constitutions &c.  Send 25
cents to National Headquarters 1324, I. St.
N. W. Wash. D. C. , and it will be sent to
you—Chairman Press. Com.  for 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. LUCY S. GRANT.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Lucy S. Grant who departed this life Jan.
3rd, 1893, adopted at a meeting of the Board of
Directors of the W. C. M. and M. Inst.
	Whereas, in the Providence of God our es-
teemed co-worker and beloved sister Lucy S.
Grant, has been released from her long suffering
and has gone to her much needed rest,—
	Whereas we have thereby lost an efficient
co-laborer and a generous patron,therefore be it—
	Resolved that we, the Board of Directors of the
W. C. M. and M. Inst. do hereby tender our
sympathy to the afflicted husband and the child-
ren, who are bereft of the presence and counsel
of a beloved wife and mother.
	Resolved that we deem it a just tribute to her
memory to say that she was beloved by each
member of the said Board and was up to the
time of her affliction a wise and able Counselor.
					GLADYS WOODMANSEE.
In behalf of the Pres. and Board.


ELLEN WALTERS WINDER.

	MRS. WINDER wife of Bishop John R. Winder
who died suddenly of heart failure at her home
in this City November 7th, at 4:30 p.m. 1892, was
born in Siverton, Devonshire, England, April 8th,
1822—and was married to John R. Winder in
London, Nov. 24th, 1845. Having embraced the
Everlasting Gospel they emigrated to America in
1853; at that time Mrs. Winder had twin baby
girls not three months old,and those were not the
days of swift transit either by sea, or by land.
This one fact demonstrates the faith and courage
Sister Winder possessed, and as she advanced in
years that same sublime faith grew stronger and
more steadfast still, as year after year witnessed
the fulfillment of those things for which she had
been looking forward.  She identified herself with
the Relief Society of the 14th ward in this City
where she resided, when it was organized, and
was an active worker in all the benevolent labors,
never weary in well-doing.  After her removal to
the 12th, Ward a few years since, she was chosen
secretary of that Relief Society and continued in
office to the time of her decease; and when death
came, she was engaged in cheerful conversation
upon matters pertaining to the duties of her of-
fice with Mrs. Julia Druce the President of the
Society.
	Sister Winder had been in delicate health for
some time, but was somewhat better and the
blow fell heavily indeed upon the family; she was
a model wife, mother and househeeper; her home
the place where she displayed those charming
attributes of character, that made it a paradise on
earth to those with whom she was thus associated;
her love of flowers constituted one of her chief
pleasures, and her plants were the admiration of
all who passed the house and the display in her
windows were a great attraction.
	Sister Winder was the mother of ten children,
five of whom are now living; she leaves also
twenty grand-children, who all loved her as
tenderly as her own. She was tender-hearted,
gentle, conscientious and forgiving, a woman of
many virtues and much goodness of heart, wo-


manly in every respect, yet brave and strong when
occasion called for action.
	“No single virtue we could most commend,
	Whether the wife, the mother, or the friend;
	For she was each in that supreme degree,
	That, as no one prevailed, so all was she.”
			MEMORI AL.
	ACCORDING to agreement at the last meeting o
the Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Dec. 1st, 1892,
the following resolutions of respect were made,
and at the succeeding meeting were unaninously
adopted.
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained
by the decease of our beloved Sister and Secre-
tary Ellen Walters Winder, and of the still heavier
loss sustained by those who were nearest and
dearest to her; therefore, be it—
	Resolved that it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed that in sorrowing over
her removal from our midst we mourn for one
who was always faithful and prompt in discharg-
ing her duties, even when laboring under heavy
physical disabilities; and, was in every way
worthy of our respect and love.
	Resolved, that we tenderly condole with the
family of our beloved sister in their hour of trial
and affliction, and share with them the hope of a
reunion in that better world to which we are all
hastening, and trust that God, “Who doeth all
things well,” will bless and comfort them.
	Resolved that a copy of this heartfelt testi-
monial of our sympathy and sorrow, be forwarded
to the family of our departed sister, and also be
placed upon our record.
			JULIA DRUCE, President.
			L. R. MIDGLEY, Ist Counselor.
			ELIZA D. HOOPER, 2nd Counselor.
			E. G. LYON, Treasurer.
			HANNAH BROOKS, Secretary.


OBITUARY.

	BY the death of Sister Mary A. J. Thomas,
which occured on the morning of the 10th, of
January, 1893, at her home in the First Ward, Salt
Lake City, many hearts are pained with the feel
ings of loneliness which come to mortals when
dear ones are taken away from them.
	Without doubt, Sister Mary’s friends were as
numerous as her acquaintances.  She possessed
the large, warm heart which is capable of find-
ing something to love, or pity in every one, and
the frank, generous, cordial disposition which
draws all hearts to offer love in return.
	To her husband, Brother Charles J. Thomas,
and family, she was most affectionately and con-
scientiously devoted.
	Three children, the eldest not yet nine years old,
are left with their father and other relatives and
friends, to mourn the loss of one of the kindest
and most faithful of all the daughters of Eve; and
one baby girl was awaiting her mother in heaven.
	Sister Mary was born on the 27th, of February,
1853 in South Wales, where her honored parents
still reside, although having been members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
from an early day.  In emigrating to Utah,
therefore Sister Mary left her home and parents
with many others who were near and dear to her,
for the Gospel’s sake.  During her life, she also
suffered many other trials and hardships, while
proving her fidelity to the cause of truth, all of
which were borne bravely and cheerfully, showing
the true heroism of a noble soul.
	The funeral took place at the First Ward Meet-
ing House, on the 12th, of January; and was in
all respects worthy of the respected woman in
whose honor it was held.
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women.  Sister Mary
Nagely Brandley, the beloved wife of Elder Theo-
dore Brandley.  She suffered intensely for three
weeks prior to her death, when death released
her on Dec. 29th, 1892.
	Sister Brandley was born March 11th, 1834 at
Altnau, Canton, Thurgau, Switzerland.  Em-
braced the gospel in her native land, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1872.  During that same year
was married to Elder Theodore Brandley, at Salt
Lake City.  She was a faithful Saint in the full
sense of the term; no sacrifice was too great for
her to make for the Gospel’s sake.
	During the twenty years of her married life,
her husband spent nine years of that time in the
missionary field, and she, with her characteristic
faith, assumed the burden of caring for their
children alone, never murmuring at his absence


nor the many trials and hardships incidental to
missionary’s wives.
	Through her last illness, she manifested un-
bounded faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Surrounded by her husband and children, by her
only brother, and hosts of friends, her every wis-
was anticipated, everything that love and sym-
pathy could do was lavished upon her but
prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong her
earthly career.  God, in his infinite wisdom had
called her home, and the tenderness and devotion
that had characterized the union of Brother and
Sister Brandley, ma de the parting ordeal all the
more severe for the heart-broken husband, who
scarcely left her bedside during her entire illness.
	Sister Brandley’s nature was purely domestic;
home was the place she adorned and no truer
wife and mother ever lived.  Her charity was
without stint, or ostentation, and the poor prayed
blessings upon her head.
	She was the mother of eight children, six of
whom are left to mourn their loss.
	The funeral services were held in the Meeting
House on New Year’s day; the large concourse
of sympathizing friends evidencing the respect
and esteem in which the family were held.
	May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved ones,
to comfort them in their hour of trial, and prepare
them for the joyful reunion awaiting them.
	IDA NAGELY.
RICHFIELD UTAH.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
