Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NaTIONS" VOTE WISELY: 'The political conditions of this country at the present time are anything but satisfactory. It is impossible to tell what a day may bring forth, or what new scheme may be developed by those who manipulate the machinery of politics. Disturbing elements are at work.... Every man is asking his neighbor what the issues are likely to produce.... It is a solemn time as well as a time of extraordinary privilege, for one cannot contemplate the condition of this nation under the present outlook without feelings of sadness, and only to those who trust in God can there come the hope that is uplifting. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BINGHAM STAKE (IDAHO): President Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Jane S. Richards, also Sister R. E. Monch attended the Relief Society Conference held at Iona, Idaho on the 13th of June. Apostle F. D. Richards was present and spoke very interestingly upon the Relief Society. These sisters had intended to visit Bannock and Bear Lake Stakes, but were hindered from making the trip on account of the high water. —FEditorial Notes THE OTHER WORLD It lies around us like a cloud, The world we do not see; Yet the sweet closing of an eye May bring us there to be Sweet souls around us watch us still, Press nearer to our side, Into our thoughts, into our prayers, With gentle helping glide —Selected THE AUTHOR OF "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN": Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe died at her home in Forest Street, Hartford (Connecticut) Wednesday, July ist. Mrs. Stowe, the daughter of Lyman Beecher, was born at Litchfield, Conn., June 15, 1811. At an early age she manifested a great eagerness for books.... On January 5, 1836, she married Rev. Calvin Stowe, D. D., professor of Biblical History in Lane Seminary, over which her father presided. During Mrs. Stowe's intervals of leisure amidst family cares, she contributed to the periodicals, sketches and short stories In 1852 she contributed to the National Era, an anti-slavery paper published at Washington, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a serial.... It met with unequaled success, 313,000 copies (in book form) were sold in the United States within three years and a half, and in all, over a million copies, including a German edition prepared there. In Great Britain its sale was enormous. It was translated into twenty different languages... And it was dramatized in various forms —Boston Transcript Page 440 OUR "