Woman's Sphere" editor is sightseeing and visiting with members of her family in Europe and was privileged to attend the unusually inspirational Latter-day Saints Servicemen's Conference at the Army's Religious Retreat in Berchtesgaden. Minerva Young Bennion, wife of Elder Adam S. Bennion, touched the hearts of the servicemen with her appeal from mothers to these youths. The wives of the West German, French, and Netherlands Mi§ission _ presidents: Bernice O. Dyer, Rachael L. Lee, and Ada S. VanDam gave beautiful talks. 'The same is true of Sister Bringhurst, whose husband is president of the Bern Temple. FE, learned how proud _ the Dutch people are of their Queen Juliana. They love her thrift, her democracy, her schedule of hard work, her excellent and wise motherhood. Besides this, she is "a clever woman." She went all through the University of Leyden with no special privileges or help from anyone. Since the high schools in Holland have eight-year courses, the University work is on a more advanced level, and one is twenty-five (if smart like Juliana) or, ordinarily, twenty-six at graduation time. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, was awarded an honorary degree, Doctor of Humanities, at the commencement exercises at Brigham Young University, June 1, 1956. In addition to her devoted and _ distinguished service to Relief Society, President Spafford has participated in many other social welfare and humanitarian activities. She became vice-chairman of the Crusade for Freedom in 1952; she has been a vice-president of the National Council of Women since 1948, and attended the meetings of the International Council of Women in Helsinki, Finland, in 1954, as head of the American delegation of the National Council of Women of the United States. She is a director of the American Mothers' Committee. President Spafford has already received a citation from Brigham Young University as a distinguished alumnus. IR'THDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Jane Anderton Perkins, Bountiful, Utah; ninety-two; Mrs. Matilda C. Robbins, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Minnie Peterson Brown, Coalville, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Eleanor Kelly Nicholes, American Fork, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Sarah Burbank Williams, Brigham City, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Lovisa Allan, Wellsville, Utah, ninety. Page 441 CQ)