[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Page 17] Sixty Years Ago Lixcerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NatTIONS" PASSING THOUGHTS: It has been a very long, tedious winter and one grows tired even of the cheery fire and the long evenings when the storm blows outside and we gather round the hearth, and eat pop-corn and molasses candy and tell stories and sing songs, for winter has trespassed so far onto the would be spring time that, in truth, the pop-com is gone, the molasses jug is empty and the stocks of stories and songs are well nigh exhausted and we long for the spring and the return of the birds, that new songs may be sung, new stories learned, new crops raised to replenish the stores for another winter. —Camelia PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S PARTY: The evening of the first of March was a red letter day in the family of President Woodruff on account of the celebration of his eighty-sixth anniversary. The party was made up of a few of his old-time comions and fellow laborers in the Gospel, some with whom he had traveled many thousands of miles on land and sea... For this and many other reasons he is very greatly reverenced by this people, as well as for the position he holds as President of the Church.... The day was also the anniversary of the birth of Sister Emma Woodruff, who shared with her husband the honors of this happy celebration. —Editorial
BLESSED ARE THEY WHO SOW
Blessed are they who dig and hew Foundation stone and beam, And build fair homes for spouses true, Where hearth-fires warmly gleam; Who blessings ask on plow and seed, On ox and furrowed plain, And call on One to give the mead Of sunshine and of rain. ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE: I'll write you a short account of a trip just taken by Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury, Julia H. Ivins, Clara C. Cannon, of Salt Lake, and myself. We...
Visited five of the settlements on the Rio Vergin River and invited the other two small towns to meet with us...
Thus we were able to meet with the associations (Relief Society, Mutual Improvement and Primary Associations)... And found them all doing a good work; and all showed an interest in contributing in every way possible to the World's Fair.
From the river settlements we went via Bellevue to Harmony back to Bellevue and Leeds, meeting with same organizations in these places... We traveled one hundred and sixty-seven miles, held fourteen meetings in one week and returned home safely feeling well paid for our time and hard riding over "Dixie Roads." —Mollie Judd FAMILY RELATIONS: Now let the daughters of Zion who are the daughters of God, give heed to their ways that they be not found allied to any one only by virtue of an everlasting covenant, confirmed and sealed by an everlasting priesthood —S. W. Richards Page 172 | ALEXAN DRINE, Queen Mother of Denmark, died in January 1953, at the age of seventy-three.
Mother of the present monarch, Frederick, Alexandrine was queen from 1912 to 1947. N Egypt the movement for women's suffrage has taken a big step forward with the recognition, by the Ministry of Interior, of the Daughters of the Nile as a political party with its own political and social program. In Sweden the number of women in the Swedish Riksdag (Parliament), after the recent general elections, is thirty-three, or nearly one-tenth of the total membership. WO young American women won the top awards for sculpture and etching at a recent show for foreign artists in Rome, Italy. The prize winners were Cornelia B.
Foss of Bloomington, Indiana, for her bronze sculptures, and Ynez Johnston of Berkeley, California, for her etchings. HE world's champion woman skater is Jeanette Altwegg, a British citizen, who is at present a children's nurse in Switzerland.