[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Poem | Title: Fantasy]
A  MAN  CALLED  PETER 
By  Catherine  Marshall 
Who  Was  This  Man  So  Close  To  God 
Yet  So  Near  To  The  Hearts  Of  Men? 
Sometimes  this  world  is  given  the  divine  gift  of  a  man  who  can 
lead  his  fellow  men  to  our  Savior  Jesus  and  show  us  the  face 
of  Heaven.  Peter  Marshall  was  one  of  these  inspired  tnen — a 
preacher,  a  man  who  spent  his  days  and  hours  building  the 
Kinj  dom  of  God  on  earth.  To  the  thousands  who  kn-  w  him 
and  loved  him.  he  was  a  constant  beacon  of  hope,  courage  and 
power.  Reading  this  biography  will  inspire  your  life,  show  you 
the  way  to  a  happiness  in  Christ  greater  perhaps  than  you  have 
ever  known.  The  young  wife  whom  Peter  left  wrote  it  as  a 
record  of  her  love  and  faith.  You  will  find  yourself  calling  it 
"my  book."  Publisher's  edition,  J^.75 
THE  SILVER  CHALICE 
By  Thomas  B.  Coslain 
The  Dramatic  Story  Of  The  Cup 
Jesus  Used  At  The  Last  Supper 
Once  m  a  generation,  an  inspired  author  of  supreme  talent  has 
:.  the  courage  to  dramatize  anew  the  greatest  theme  in  all  liter- 
ature !  Here  is  the  story  of  the  mystery  of  the  Holy  Grail  and 
the  young  pagan  sculptor  who  saved  it  from  destruction.  It  is 
a  novel  bursting  with  adventure,  love,  faith,  passion  and  in- 
trigue— a  monumental  drama  with  a  cast  of  immortals  includ- 
ing Luke,  Paul,  Peter,  Mark,  James  and  John!  A  towering 
novel  that  sweeps  v.'u  back  to  the  turbulent  years  of  Chris- 
tianity's birth  the  masterwork  of  Thomas  B.  Costain, 
America  s  best-loved  storyteller.  Published  at  $}.85.  your  copy 
is  iree  if  vou  ioin  the  Family  Reading  Club  now. 
WHY  THE  FAMILY  READING   CLUB  MAKES  THIS   UNUSUAL  OFFER 
The  Family  Reading  Club  makes  this  unusual  offer 
to  demonstrate  how  membership  in  the  Club  brings 
you  the  best  and  most  enjoyable  new  books  at  m.uch 
less  than  the  publishers'  regular  editions!  Founded 
to  select  and  distribute  books  which  are  worthwhile, 
interesting  and  entertaining  without  being  objection- 
able in  any  way,  the  Family  Reading  Club  is  just 
what  you  have  been  looking  for.  Each  month  our 
Editors  select  the  one  book  they  can  recommend 
most  enthusiastically — a  book  which  every  member 
of  your  family  can  read,  which  you  can  safely  leave 
where  older  children  can  read  it  if  they  wish,  and 
which   can   be   kept    in    your   home    library   with   pride. 
How  Members  Save  Up  To  60% 
You  pay  only  $1.89  each  (plus  postage  and  handling) 
for  the  books  you  purchase  after  reading  the  book 
review  magazine  which  will  come  to  your  home  each 
month.  You  may  accept  as  few  as  four  books  each 
year  to  retain  your  membership — and  you  will  re- 
ceive a  handsome  new  "Bonus  "  Book  free  for  each 
four  Club  selections  you  take.  The  purchase  of  books 
from  the  Club  for  only  $1.89  each— instead  of  $3.00 
to  $4,00  in  the  publishers'  original  editions — saves 
you  from  35%  to  50%  on  each  book  you  accept.  And 
when  the  value  of  the  Bonus  Books  is  figured  in, 
you  can   save  as  much   as  60%  of  your  book  dollars! 
Join  Now  —  Send  No  Money 
If  you  believe  in  a  book  club  which  will  appeal  to 
your  finest  instincts,  let  us  introduce  you  to  the 
Family  Reading   Club  NOW  while  you  can  get  both 
of  the  wonderful  books  described  here  as  your  free 
Mem'oership  Gift.  Send  no  money  now,  just  mail  the 
coupon  at  once,  before  you  forget! 
FAMILY  READING  CLUB  -  MINEOLA,  N.Y. 
MA/l  COUPON  NOW/ 
cs 
BOTH  FREE WITH  MEMBERSHIP 
"A  MAN  CALLED  PETER" 
and  "THE  SILVER  CHALICE" 
FAMILY   READING  CLUB,  Dept.  2-RSM, 
Mineola,  New  York 
Please  a>end  me  at  once  the  two  bool:s  listed  aoove  as  my  iree 
MemDershlp  Gift  books.  Also  enroll  me  as  a  member  of  the 
Family  Reading  Club  and  send  me,  each  month,  a  review  of 
the  Club's  forthcoming  selection.  I  have  the  privilege  of  noti- 
fying you  In  advance  If  I  do  not  wish  to  accept  any  selection. 
or  alternate  book— at  the  special  members'  price  of  only  $1.89 
each  (plus  postage  and  handling).  There  are  no  membership 
dues  or  fees,  and  I  may  accept  as  few  as  four  selections  or 
alternates  during  the  coming  twelve  months.  You  may  begin 
my  membership  by  sending  the  current  Club  selection  with  my 
two  free  gift  books,  and  bill  me  only  $1.89  (plus  shipping)  for 
an  three.  As  a  member,  I  will  receive  a  free  Bonus  Book  with 
each  four  Club  selections  or  alternates  I  accept. 
SPECIAL  NO-RISK  GUARANTEE:  It  not  delighted  1  will  re- 
turn all  books  in  7  days  and  this  membership  will  be  canceled. 
Mr. 
Mrs 
 
Miss 
(Please  Print) 
Street  and  No.. 
City 
 Zone   State   
[Same  offer  In  Canada.  1 
Address  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2.  Ont.  I 
«.._v.  -    Offer  good  only  in  U.S.A.  and  CanadaJ

SS.  A  m  A  f&  I  Sf 
VOL  40    NO.  3 
MARCH  1953

•'"* 
'i>*r 
"WT^ 
A  Safer  World  Ahead! 
Your  baby  today  has  twice  as  much  chance  to  grow  into  a  healthy 
childhood  as  an  infant  twenty  years  ago. 
One  reason  for  this  better  birthright  is  improved  infant  feeding  care. 
Good,  safe  Sego  Milk,  developed  through  years  of  scientific  testing, 
is  always  easy  for  babies  to  digest  —  always  uniformly  rich  in  whole 
milk's  food  substances. 
Sego  Milk  supplies  your  baby  with  something 
else,  too  —  pure  crystalline  vitamin  Ds,  the 
sunshine  vitamin  that  helps  develop  strong, 
straight  bones  and  sound  teeth,  and  to  make 
the  best  of  growth. 
Ask  your  doctor  about  Sego  Milk 
FREE  TO  YOU! 
Your  Baby,  a  handy,  64-page  book  that  makes  it 
easier  to  care  for  and  train  your  babv.  Approved  by 
a  well-known  doctor.  Send  for  your  free  copy  today. 
Address:  Sego  Milk  Co.,  Dept.  R-1,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.