[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
Of  holding  you  nearest. 
How  shall  I  say  your  name. 
My  dearest? 
Page  171

Sixty    Ljears  Jrigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  March   i,  and  March  15,   1893 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
PASSING  THOUGHTS:  It  has  been  a  very  long,  tedious  winter  and  one  grows 
tired  even  of  the  cheery  fire  and  the  long  evenings  when  the  storm  blows  outside  and 
we  gather  round  the  hearth,  and  eat  pop-corn  and  molasses  candy  and  tell  stories  and 
sing  songs,  for  winter  has  trespassed  so  far  onto  the  would  be  spring  time  that,  in 
truth,  the  pop-corn  is  gone,  the  molasses  jug  is  empty  and  the  stocks  of  stories  and 
songs  are  well  nigh  exhausted  and  we  long  for  the  spring  and  the  return  of  the  birds, 
that  new  songs  may  be  sung,  new  stories  learned,  new  crops  raised  to  replenish  the 
stores  for  another  winter.  — Camelia 
PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF'S  PARTY:  The  evening  of  the  first  of  March 
was  a  red  letter  day  in  the  family  of  President  WoodruflF  on  account  of  the  celebration 
of  his  eighty-sixth  anniversar}'.  The  party  was  made  up  of  a  few  of  his  old-time  com- 
panions and  fellow  laborers  in  the  Gospel,  some  with  whom  he  had  traveled  many 
thousands  of  miles  on  land  and  sea  .  .  .  for  this  and  many  other  reasons  he  is  very 
greatly  reverenced  by  this  people,  as  well  as  for  the  position  he  holds  as  President  of 
the  Church.  .  .  .  The  day  was  also  the  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Sister  Emma  Wood- 
ruff, who  shared  with  her  husband  the  honors  of  this  happy  celebration.  — Editorial 
BLESSED  ARE  THEY  WHO  SOW 
Blessed  are  they  who  dig  and  hew 
Foundation  stone  and  beam, 
And  build  fair  homes  for  spouses  true, 
W^ere  hearth-fires  warmly  gleam; 
Who  blessings  ask  on  plow  and  seed, 
On  ox  and  funowed  plain, 
And  call  on  One  to  give  the  mead 
Of  sunshine  and  of  rain. 
ITEMS  FROM  ST.  GEORGE:  I'll  write  you  a  short  account  of  a  trip  just 
taken  by  Mrs.  Ann  C.  Woodbury,  Julia  H.  Ivins,  Clara  C.  Cannon,  of  Salt  Lake,  and 
myself.  We  .  .  .  visited  five  of  the  settlements  on  the  Rio  Vergin  River  and  invited 
the  other  two  small  towns  to  meet  with  us  .  .  .  thus  we  were  able  to  meet  with  the  .  .  . 
associations  (ReHef  Society,  Mutual  Improvement  and  Primary  Associations)  .  .  .  and 
found  them  all  doing  a  good  work;  and  all  showed  an  interest  in  contributing  in  even- 
way  possible  to  the  World's  Fair.  From  the  river  settlements  we  went  via  Belle\'ue 
to  Harmony  back  to  Bellevue  and  Leeds,  meeting  with  same  organizations  in  these 
places  .  .  .  We  traveled  one  hundred  and  sixty-seven  miles,  held  fourteen  meetings 
in  one  week  and  returned  home  safely  feeling  well  paid  for  our  time  and  hard  riding 
over  "Dixie  Roads."  — Mollie  Judd 
FAMILY  RELATIONS:  Now  let  the  daughters  of  Zion  who  are  the  daughters 
of  God,  give  heed  to  their  ways  that  they  be  not  found  allied  to  any  one  only  by 
virtue  of  an  everlasting  covenant,  confirmed  and  sealed  by  an  everlasting  priest- 
hood ....  — S.  W.  Richards 
Page  172  '-  -

Woman's   Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
^LEXANDRINE,  Queen  Mother 
of  Denmark,  died  in  January 
1953,  at  the  age  of  seventy- three. 
Mother  of  the  present  monarch, 
Frederick,  Alexandrine  was  queen 
from  1912  to  1947. 
I 
N  Egypt  the  movement  for  wom- 
en's suffrage  has  taken  a  big  step 
forward  with  the  recognition,  by  the 
Ministry  of  Interior,  of  the  Daugh- 
ters of  the  Nile  as  a  political  party 
with  its  own  political  and  social  pro- 
gram. In  Sweden  the  number  of 
women  in  the  Swedish  Riksdag 
(Parliament),  after  the  recent  gen- 
eral elections,  is  thirty-three,  or 
nearly  one-tenth  of  the  total  mem- 
bership. 
'TpWO  young  American  women 
won  the  top  awards  for  sculp- 
ture and  etching  at  a  recent  show 
for  foreign  artists  in  Rome,  Italy. 
The  prize  winners  were  Cornelia  B. 
Foss  of  Bloomington,  Indiana,  for 
her  bronze  sculptures,  and  Ynez 
Johnston  of  Berkeley,  California, 
for  her  etchings. 
npHE    world's    champion    woman 
skater   is    Jeanette   Altwegg,    a 
British  citizen,  who  is  at  present  a 
children's  nurse  in  Switzerland. 
OIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to  Mrs.  Melissa  Ann 
Wells  Dial  ninety-seven,  Mrs.  Caro- 
line Wayman  Newman,  ninety-six, 
Mrs.  Annie  Peterson  Brown,  ninety- 
four,  Mrs.  Nans  S.  Richardson, 
ninety-one,  and  Ann  Barnes  Layton 
and  Karen  Peterson  Andersen, 
ninety. 
QUEEN  ELIZABETH  II  won 
^  the  award  of  Woman  of  the 
Year  for  1952.  The  choosing  is 
done  by  the  editors  and  the  man- 
aging editors  of  the  Associated 
Press.  The  women  chose  Mrs. 
Eisenhower,  but  the  men  were  for 
the  Queen.  Their  vote  was  pre- 
ponderant. 
ALL  women  of  Lebanon  with  a 
primary  education  have  recently 
been  given  the  right  to  vote.     In 
fact,  non-voters  can  be  fined. 
jyrRS.    JOHN    B.    SULLIVAN, 
newly  elected  Democratic  Con- 
gresswoman  from  Missouri,  is  the 
State's  first  woman  member  of  Con- 
gress. 
TN  Japan,  South  Africa,  the  British 
West  Indies,  and  the  Philip- 
pines, teen-age  girls  are  doing  a 
splendid  work  collecting  funds  for 
community  welfare  drives,  helping 
in  hospitals,  and  performing  various 
other  tasks. 
Page  173

EDITORIAL 
VOL.  40 
MARCH  1953 
NO.  3 
\Ju\^ignt   ^Ju.  Koisenhower 
of  the    Lin 
r\N  Tuesday,  January  20,  1953, 
D wight  D.  Eisenhower  became 
the  thirty-fourth  President  of  the 
United  States.  For  the  first  time  in 
history  milhons  of  people  through- 
out tire  United  States  of  America 
were  enabled,  through  television,  to 
see  the  inaugural  ceremonies  as  they 
took  place  in  Washington,  D.  C. 
It  is  a  significant  development,  of 
far-reaching  importance,  that  school 
children  in  distant  cities,  and  even 
in  remote  villages  throughout  the 
country,  were  permitted  to  see  the 
President  take  the  oath  of  office, 
and  to  view  at  close  range  the  cere- 
monies which  gave  our  nation  a 
new  Chief  Executive,  elected  by 
democratic  processes  and  installed 
in  his  high  office  by  ceremonies  one 
hundred  and  sixty-four  years  old. 
Other  millions  in  our  own  country 
and  abroad,  and  even  our  soldiers 
in  the  Korean  hills,  heard  the  reso- 
lute and  confident  voice  of  Presi- 
dent Eisenhower  repeating  the  oath 
of  office  and  the  stirring  call  to 
duty  expressed  in  his  inaugural 
message.