[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Crocus]

But glowing for my sight this morn The crocus garden, newly born; Tonic touch of air and sand, Together with the fine moist land, Have wrought this miracle of life, To lift my soul from toilsome strife— This vivid orange in a spring bouquet Spread at my feet this cold March day.
PIONEER LOG HOUSE
By &arly Candlelight 2. Bur~pinc A HOME IN THE VALLEY Bonnie A. Kesler Illustrations by the Author HE journey by wagon from Nauvoo left Hyrum and Annie weary, but upon entering the valley, their spirits and hopes were high.
Many of their friends lived temporarily in dugouts on the north bank of streams, and others lived in and by their covered wagons during the summer months; but by October, the nights were cold and uncomfortable to be sleeping in the open in this climate, so with axes, logchains, and ox teams, Hytum and some of his neighbors made daily trips into the canyons, working from early morning until late at night felling trees and trimming off branches. 'Then came the Slow journey back to the valley, with the oxen dragging green pine logs.
After a few days of logging, the men had sufficient material for a home.
Then everyone turned to notching, lifting, and fitting the logs into their respective places. Hyrum's home was one _ large room with an inside measurement of sixteen by eighteen feet. 'There were one door and one window, a large fireplace, and a chimney. Rushes, found growing along the streams, were placed on the log rafters, on top of which was a layer of clay about a foot thick, spread Page 185 186 from the ridgepole to the eaves.
This roof, though heavy, was quite adequate, except during a heavy rain storm, when leaks developed.
Then every available bucket antl pan was used by Annie and the gitls to catch the dripping water. The logs were chinked inside and out, and plastered inside with a mixture of mud. The walls were whitewashed whenever Annie housecleaned. 'The door swung.
From strong wooden hinges.
Glass for the window was not available, so greased factory cloth was _ substituted. The cloth prevented the entrance of cold air and allowed the passage of light. Hyrum's log house cost about forty dollars. An adobe house would fee cost only half that amount. However, some of Hyrum's friends chose to build homes of adobe brick.
Hyrum helped make at Ae VE  adobes in exchange for the work on his own house.
Each adobe, of sun-dried clay brick, was about twelve inches long, four inches high, and six inches wide, the color of the clay from which it was made. The clay and water mixture was poured into wooden frames or molds, then the wet bricks were unmolded and set in the sun to dry.
When dry, the bricks were put together with clay mortar, to which a little sand was added because straight clay and water would be too dense and would crack easily.
When it was available, straw was mixed into the adobe mixture to reinforce it.
After making the adobes, Hyrum's friend used the pit from which the clay was taken for the cellar of his house, which had an outside entrance and a slanting cover built over the stairway. A Gh 0B Gofp3 ad az BUND a CMa Gis MM 4 fete c HPs "i Ui: = a GUM Ml 'G ~iae a.