[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Dwight D. States]
Page 173 » EDITORIAL 9 
VOL. 40 MARCH 1953
Dwight 1) Gisenhower Gnaugurated President of the United States N Tuesday, January 20, 1953, Dwight D.
Eisenhower became the thirty-fourth President of the United States. For the first time in history millions of people throughout the United States of America were enabled, through television, to see the inaugural ceremonies as they took place in Washington, D. C. It is a significant development, of far-reaching importance, that school children in distant cities, and even in remote villages throughout the country, were permitted to see the President take the oath of office, and to view at close range the ceremonies which gave our nation a new Chief Executive, elected by democratic processes and installed in his high office by ceremonies one hundred and sixty-four years old.
Other millions in our own country and abroad, and even our soldiers in the Korean hills, heard the resolute and confident voice of President Eisenhower repeating the oath of office and the stirring call to duty expressed in his inaugural message.
Early in the morning, before the momentous proceedings were televised, the future President and Vice-President, with their -wives, cabinet members, and close associates, attended religious services in Washington's historic National Presbyterian Church, where many other Presidents have worshipped. There, solemn words from the Bible Page 174 were read, expressing the Savior''s answer to a question on authority asked by the mother of James and John: | Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be.
Your servant. (Matthew 20:25-27).
After this reveverential service, the man who would that day assume the Presidency of the nation, accompanied by his wife, arrived at the White House. There, before an estimated 150, 000 persons massed on the approaches to the Capitol, the majestic ceremonies began. 'The day was beautifully clear, and a festive, yet reverent spirit pervaded the beloved city on the Potomac. Eager, upturned faces awaited the words of the man who had been called to the highest office in the nation. The forty-year-old Vice-President, Richard M.
Nixon of California, was sworn into office by Senator Knowland. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, Fred M. Vinson, in the black robes of his high office, administered the Presidential oath to President Eisenhower.
Standing on the outdoor platform bearing the seal of the United States, with the dome of the EDITORIAL Capitol rising back of him, im reverence and devotion, Dwight David Eisenhower raised his right hand, and, placing his left hand upon a Bible, repeated the oath. Two Bibles lay upon the pulpit before the new President—one the revered Bible which President Washington used—and the other the Eisenhower family Bible.
Immediately following this ritual, sacred to generations of Americans, the new President stepped over and kissed his wife—Mamie Dowd Eisenhower, mother of their son, Major John Eisenhower, who had been granted leave from his post in Korea by President 'Truman to witness his father's inauguration.
Before beginning his formal address, the President asked all those assembled to bow their heads while he petitioned the Heavenly Father to grant him a full and complete dedication to the service of the American people and "their fellow citizens everywhere." 'Thus Dwight D.
Eisenhower prayed for guidance in his hour of destiny: Give us, we pray, the power to discern right from wrong and allow all our words and actions to be governed age and by the laws of this land..
That all may work for the good of our beloved country and thy glory.
