[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Deflated Dollar]
Deflated Dollar Frances C. Yost COLD, January wind was A clawing around the corners of the Bruce Camden home. Inside, Flora Camden sat before the fireplace with her mending basket on her lap, but she was not in the mood for mending.
Usually the flames lent the Camden living room a cheerful glow. Tonight, Flora saw only grotesque pictures leaping from the hearth, their weird shapes adding to her fears. If only I had not let Marty go on that strange baby-tending job, Flora thought. Surely, I could have used the excuse that Bruce was out - of town on business for the week end, and pleaded loneliness.
Marty is too young to have such responsibility, and, anyway, we don't need the money, Flora chided herself. "What on earth was I thinking of to let Marty go?"
Flora spoke aloud, her eyes haunting the clock as it ticked into the night. 'Then, with emphasis, she added, "Marty is my only child! 'The most wonderful child that ever lived! Oh, why did I let her go off like this?"
Flora pulled back the drapes and peered into the night. "If only | knew the people.
What did Marty say their name was? I don't even know where they live." we wk ke ek HEN, as though it were flashed on television, Flora saw Marty again as she came through the front door from her music lesson.
Marty who always had so many words to say they bubbled over one another.. "Mother! Mother!
Something extra wonderful has happened!"
Marty rushed in the house and slammed the big oak door to keep out the elements. "Mother! Oh, Mother, where are you?" "Here in the kitchen, dear," Flora Camden answered. "I'm putting on a lunch for the two of us. Daddy's out of town, you know.
What wonderful thing has happened, Marty dear?"
Flora paused in her salad making, with the paring knife in her hand. She came to the living room door to see Marty. "Oh, Mother!"
Marty bubbled, flinging her coat on the green platform rocker, and laying her portfolio on the piano bench. "Mother, Mrs.
Larsen stopped me on the street and wants a baby sitter. Isn't it wonderful?" "But you're only a child yourself, Marty, just eleven,' Flora expostulated. "Mrs.
Larsen thinks I'm _ big enough, and she said she knew I was capable. She said she watches me going to and from school, and she says she hopes her little baby grows up to be just like me." Marty's large, soft, childish mouth curved up at the corners, and her dimples winked becomingly. Her light brown eyes had flecks of black in them, and her soft brown hair bobbed gaily in ringlets on her shoulders.
Marty was like a breath of springtime in winter. "T must say this Mrs.
Larsen has high ideals, if she wants her little daughter to be as nice as mine."
Flora winked at Marty, and they Page 165 166 both giggled. '""We'll stop by her house sometime and get acquainted," Flora added. "But, Mother, Mrs.
Larsen wants me tonight. She wants me to stay with her baby. Baby Roene, her name is.' Marty's eyes became pools of pleading. "All right, dear, if you and Mrs.
Larsen think you are old enough, why, I'm sure you are. I'll drive you over, after supper."
Flora turned back to her salad making. "But they just live a little ways, I can easily skip over myself, save you getting the car out. 'The roads are slick as mirrors, and, Mother, I won't have time to eat, they are almost ready to leave now. Mrs.
Larsen said I could eat there, and, anyway, Mother, I just came home to tell you." Marty's voice seemed to rise like a crescendo and gained speed with every syllable. "I just have time for a big kiss, and then I must run."
Marty kissed her mother on the cheek, and before Flora could untangle the flow of words, she had slipped into her coat and was gone. OK kK ok LORA picked up the mending and industriously started sewing on buttons. I'm just an old worrier, she thought. I'll make myself sew on buttons and darn socks 'and act like a grown woman. Why, when I was Marty's age, I walked blocks and blocks, night after night, tending children and doing all sorts of work.
Believe me, they didn't call them sitters in those days. A girl never got a chance to know what a chair was. The past rose up like a storm at sea and engulfed Flora. She felt  herself returning to a scene that time itself had laid aside and graciously forgotten. FoLORA Hoppe was fourteen, fourteen with a teen-age need for money in a world deflated with depression.
Flora lifted her eyes from her eighth-grade reader and glanced nervously at the schoolroom clock. The hands were moving swiftly to 3:30.
That was the time Mrs.
Miser had wanted her to come to work, yet Flora hadn't found the courage all day to speak to Miss Thompson about leaving early.
Flora fidgeted in her seat. "Flora Hoppe, will you come to my desk?" Miss Thompson didn't seem angry, but one could never tell about teachers.
Flora slid out of her seat, and the eyes of the entire class left their books and followed her the length of the aisle.
Flora stood by Miss Thompson's desk until the teacher finished correcting a paper and looked up. "Flora, you've been watching the clock all afternoon. Is something wrong?" Miss 'Thompson inquired.
Flora found it hard to ask for favors. "Miss 'Thompson, may I be excused at 3:30? I mean now. I, I promised I would tend children."
Flora felt a lump in her throat. "You may be excused, Flora, but be sure and take your arithmetic and do all thirty problems." Miss Thompson turned back to the papers she was correcting.
Flora mumbled her thanks and went to the cloakroom for her coat. It was a long way to the Misers.
Flora picked a loping gait. If she went faster, she might fall on the icy sidewalk. A slower walk was uncomfortably cold in January, and, DEFLATED DOLLAR anyway, she was late. A_ brisk wind stung Flora's fingers. She made a muff of her sleeves to pro- — tect the gloveless hands from the biting cold. As Flora stepped upon the Miser porch, the door opened. Emma Miser held it ajar. She was a buxom woman, with red hair and freckles, which she tried to camouflage with an overabundance of makeup. "I thought you would never get here, Flora. We're ready to leave." "It's quite a ways from school," Flora murmured. "That's quite all right," Emma Miser replied, her mind on the events of the afternoon ahead. "Mr.
Miser is backing the car out now. We're running into Salt Lake City to do some shopping and maybe. See a show. We won't be late, I'm sure. 'Things are pretty well done up. I washed this morning.
Just watch the little ones and feed them supper. You can find something to fix.
Bake the bread, too. It's ready to put in the pans. And you know how Beth Ann likes your stories.
Spend a lot of time with Beth Ann. She's your age, Flora, but the poor dear."
Emma wiped a tear from her eyes.
Thinking of poor, crippled Beth Ann was reason enough to make anyone cry. "Well, we best go." Emma Miser carefully let her weight down the icy steps. Ron Miser swung the car door open for her, and she eased herself into the front seat.
Flora watched them drive off. She was glad for Emma Miser to have an afternoon free.
Life at the Misers was an endless chore of dishes, cooking, caring for little chil- 167 dren, and lifting crippled Beth Ann. And always there were eggs to wash and case. FLORA worked her way through the noon dishes piled high in the sink. As she polished the glasses to a gleam, she glanced at fouryear-old Tommy piling blocks up for baby Susan to knock over. If they will only entertain themselves until I get these dishes and the washroom cleaned up, Flora thought. "Sing a song," Tommy begged, as if he had read Flora's thoughts. His red hair and freckles blended, as if the sunshine had sprinkled both with the same brush. "What song do you want, 'Tommy?"
Flora liked Tommy, though he was as mischievous as a fox. "I Play Horsey." 'Tommy's eyes sparkled. "Well, here goes," Flora chanted merrily. "I play horsey down the street with my broom, down the street.
When somebody moves - the street, I fall down and go boom."
Flora sang the song with all the flourish and all the actions. "Ha! Ha!" 'Tommy clapped with glee, and baby Susan cooed and giggled. "Do it again," 'Tommy shouted. "Not now, Tommy.
Flora has to clean up the washroom and mix out the bread and bring in clothes from the line, and if there's time before I fix' supper, I want to read to Beth Ann."
Flora bent over the tasks, one after another, her body useful and graceful at the same time.
When the blocks were put away and the floor nice and clean, and while the bread finished baking, 168
Flora said, "Let's go in with Beth Ann and listen to a story." She smiled at Tommy, and he took baby Susan's hand to follow lovingly behind her. Inwardly Flora dreaded being in the same room with the invalid. Beth Ann had grown in body to Flora's height, but never had she known the use of her dangling legs or seen the inside of a school or church.
