[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. ot]
the  second  is  our  work  meeting  (for 
homemaking  activities),  the  third, 
a  study  of  great  literature,  and  the 
fourth,  social  science.  You  say  you 
never  heard  of  any  organization  giv- 
ing its  members  such  a  broad  edu- 
cation? Well,  thank  you.  We  think 
it  is  wonderful,  too,  and  appreciate 
it  greatly. 
Health  and  nursing  have  always 
been  of  great  concern  to  the  Relief 
Society.  As  early  as  1873,  classes 
were  conducted  in  nursing.  Some  of 
the  early  Relief  Society  women  be- 
came doctors  and  taught  nursing, 
obstetrics,  and  hygiene.  The  Relief 
Society  even  established  a  hospital 
in  1882,  called  the  Deseret  Hospital, 
which  served  the  community  for 
some  years. 
TF  you  will  just  sit  here  a  minute, 
I  would  like  to  tell  you  of  two 
or  three  of  the  distinctive  projects 
the  Relief  Society  women  have  car- 
ried on. 
One  was  the  promotion  of  seri- 
culture, or  the  raising  of  silkworms. 
Yes,  raising  silkworms— isn't  that 
unusual?  President  Brigham  Young 
felt  very  strongly  that  the  people 
should  make  the  things  they  wore 
and  used,  so,  in  1875,  he  called 
Zina  Young  to  this  mission.  (This 
is  Sister  Young's  portrait.)  A  large 
cocoonery  was  built  south  of  the 
city  in  which  to  raise  the  silkworms, 
and  Sister  Young  herself  was  the 
first  one  to  take  charge  of  it.  She 
was  successful  in  this  venture,  even 
though  the  worms  were  very  re- 
pugnant to  her,  as  we  can  well 
imagine.  The  Legislature  provided 
for  a  bounty  on  cocoons,  which  en- 
couraged the  project.  Acres  of  mul- 
berry trees  were  planted  in  various 
communities,  and  for  several  years 
the  industry  flourished.  Then  the 
bounty  was  discontinued,  interest 
waned,  and  finally  the  venture 
terminated.  But  many  of  those 
early  articles  made  of  the  silk  are 
still  preserved.  The  Woman's  Ex- 
ponent says  that  Susan  B.  Anthony 
proudly  wore  a  dress  made  of  Utah 
silk,  presented  to  her  by  Relief  So- 
ciety women. 
Oh,  you  have  read  about  Susan 
B.  Anthony?  Yes,  she  was  the 
great  suffrage  leader.  She  and  Dr. 
Anna  Howard  Shaw  came  to  Salt 
Lake  City  during  the  time  the  suf- 
frage movement  was  on.  You  see, 
Utah  women  were  the  first  in  the 
United  States  to  vote,  and  Relief 
Society  women  were  very  active  in 
the   cause   of   suffrage.    Several   of

A  VISIT  TO  RELIEF  SOCIETY  HEADQUARTERS 
1S3 
them  were  ''excellent  speakers  and 
good  reasoners/'  and  because  of 
their  political  experience  and  privi- 
leges, became  prominent  in  the  Na- 
tional Woman  Suffrage  movement. 
Today,  the  Relief  Society  is  af- 
filiated with  the  National  Council 
of  Women,  of  which  you  know. 
In  fact,  the  Relief  Society  became 
a  charter  member  of  the  National 
and  International  Councils  in  1891, 
and  has  retained  membership  ever 
since.  Several  of  our  Relief  Society 
women  have  held  executive  offices 
in  the  National  Council,  the  most 
recent  being  President  Spafford's  ap- 
pointment to  the  office  of  second 
vice-president  in  October  1952.  Yes, 
it  is  a  great  honor  and  distinction. 
Another  unique  assignment  giv- 
en to  Relief  Society  was  that  of 
saving  grain.  President  Brigham 
Young,  in  1876,  called  Emmeline  B. 
Wells  (this  is  her  portrait)  to  carry 
out  this  mission.  Sister  Wells  looks 
like  a  fragile  little  piece  of  Dresden, 
doesn't  she?  But  she  was  a  veri- 
table dynamo  of  energy— courageous 
and  brilliant.  She  was  to  begin. 
President  Young  said,  by  writing 
the  strongest  editorial  she  could  in 
The  Woman's  Exponent.  As  usual, 
the  Relief  Society  women  took  up 
the  assignment  with  a  will.  They 
raised  wheat,  bought  wheat  with 
their  funds,  and  went  into  the  fields 
and  gleaned,  filling  their  aprons 
with  the  overlooked  stalks  of  grain. 
This  storing  of  grain  went  on  for 
a  period  of  almost  forty-five  years, 
and  much  grain  was  stored.  Some 
was  used  to  relieve  distress  in  times 
of  disaster.  Then  came  a  time  dur- 
ing World  War  I  when  the  United 
States  Government  needed  wheat, 
and  at  the  Government's  request, 
the  Relief  Society  sold  it  over  two 
hundred  thousand  bushels.  When 
President  Woodrow  Wilson  was  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  1919,  he  visited 
Emmeline  B.  Wells  to  thank  her 
personally  on  behalf  of  the  Govern- 
ment, for  the  Rehef  Society  wheat. 
You  say  they  told  you  down  at 
Welfare  Square  something  about 
Relief  Society  wheat  in  speaking  of 
the  grain  elevator,  but  you  did  not 
understand  the  connection?  There 
certainly  is  a  connection.  When 
the  Relief  Society  wheat  was  sold 
to  the  Government  the  money  was 
put  in  a  trust  fund  for  the  Relief 
Society,  and,  in  1940,  when  the 
Church  erected  the  huge  elevator, 
wheat  was  again  bought  with  Relief 
Society  money  and  is  being  stored 
against  another  time  of  need. 
Before  the  time  of  your  appoint- 
ment with  Sister  Spafford,  let's  walk 
down  the  hall  and  look  in  this  door- 
way. Here  is  the  mailing  room  of 
The  Rehei  Society  Magazine— the 
official  monthly  publication  of  our 
society.  It  has  over  113,000  sub- 
scribers, all  over  the  world,  and  con- 
tains the  lesson  courses  of  the  so- 
ciety, editorials,  articles  by  Church 
Authorities,  fiction  and  poetry  by 
Latter-day  Saint  women,  homemak- 
ing  helps,  and  instructions  to  Refief 
Societies  all  over  the  world.  Let  me 
present  you  with  this  month's  copy. 
It  will  help  you  to  become  better
