BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days and seasons in every life that
draw the soul nearer to God, that throw a-
round it a sweet influence of peace and satis-
faction, something that seems to draw all things
around to a focus, that seem to hold up, as it
were, a mirror to the mind, in which sweet and
glorious visions are presented to the imagina-
tion, and 'tis felt to be indeed a Sabbath—a
time of rest, of retrospection, of meditation, of
entering into a close communion with spiritual
things,and approximating nearer and nearer to
our Father, God. Such a day and season is
most especially Easter Sunday. It occurs in
the lovely season of spring—when earth
has again her annual resurrection, when
the early flowers—the snowdrop and the cro-
cus, raise their pure and beautiful heads above
the dark brown earth, and have a voice that
speaks to our spirit of life renewed. The air
is soft and balmy, the beams of the glorious sun
seem to embrace us with the very warmth of
love, invigorating our frame and rejoicing our
hearts, making our brain bright and vivid, as
though bathed in a chalice of ambrosia; our
step is light and elastic, we feel that earth can
scarcely hold us, our spirit seems to desire to
soar into a still higher region—a more natural
element, the very breath of heaven seems to
fan our cheek, and we feel as though ready for
the “transfiguration!" We walk in the gar-
den alone; yes, we want to be alone so far as
earthly things are concerned; we have thrown
off the "mortal coil" of every day life, we have
entered the sanctuary of our own heart, and
the temple of our brain, and we desire to walk
through the length and the breadth of the same,
feeling we are not alone, but that another is
with us "like unto the Son of God"—could
natural eyes behold Him!
	We are away in the fields of thought, of
meditation; we desire to realize the peculiar
feelings experienced on this glorious Sabbath
morning! What circumstance gives to this
day feelings of a peculiar kind, such as we re-
alize on no other? Every Sabbath brings sweet

[Column 2]

and peaceful feelings, but none that has the
beauty and the solemn peace, aud the entire
satisfaction of this Easter Sunday! Why is it
so? What is the cause? It is the day on which
the Savior arose bodily from the repose of the
sepulchre. "On the third day He rose again"
and walked in the beantiful garden and met
Mary, who was mourning and searching for
the Lord. She, thinking He was the gardener,
said inploringly, "Sir, if thou hast borne Him
hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I
will take Him away." Jesus said unto her,
"Mary?" She turned and saith unto Him,
"Rabboni!" Let us try to realize for a mo--
ment this sublime, this thrilling scene. My
soul seems to expand to leap at the bare recit-
al of it. He had veiled Himself from her nat-
ural eyes, but that marvelous voice pronounc-
ing only her name, laid bare the wondrous vol-
ume, and she knew Him. She rushed forward
to kneel and clasp His knees, but again the
voice says, "Touch me not, for I have not yet
ascended to my Father." Let us ponder on
this wondrous scene; how glorious, how consol-
ing, how exalting those few but mighty words,
what do they not import? They have a mean-
ing which our obscure and limited understand-
ing cannot fully comprehend, and yet enough
is conveyed to the spirit ear of the devout
Christian that is better than our present insuf-
ficient language could possibly portray.
	Easter is the first great festival of the year,
as Christmas is the last, the one commemor-
ates the birth, the other the death and resur-
rection of the Divine Savior of the world.
What a field for reflection is involved in these
two grand epochs! When we realize the mar-
velous love of God to man, and how it was dis-
played for the redemption of the human fami-
ly, how deep should be our gratitude, how a-
bundant our praise, how entire our adoration!
	It is remarkable that in the English version
of the Bible, the word Easter occurs for the
passover. It will be found in the twelfth chap.
of the Acts of the Apostles, fourth verse. In
I Corinthians, fifth chapter and seventh verse.
Paul says, "Christ our passover is sacrificed for
us." Jesus was typified by the Paschal lamb,
and the early Christians joined in the celebra-
tion of the great Jewish festival, which wa
held on the first new moon of the spring.
	Eester is the most joyful festival of the Greek
and Roman churches; it is also observed with
great solemnity by the Church of England,
the Lutheran, and the European Calvinists—
under the new style. The earliest possible day
whereon Easter can happen is the 22nd of
March, on which day it fell in the year 1818,
and cannot do so again till the year 2285. The
latest possible day whereon it can fall is the
25th of April.
	Regarding Easter offerings,these are thought
by some to be derived from the gifts of the
wise men of the East, who came to worship the
infant Savior at Bethlehem, but others declare
this custom had even an older origin it being
the practice of the Jews to make offerings of
the firstlings of their flocks, and first fruits in
the temple at the passover.
	Another Easter custom, which is still kept
up in some parts, is that of presenting children
with eggs stained with various colors in boil-
ing, termed paste, or more properly, Pasche
eggs, doubtless from the word paschal. This
custom appears to have been derived from the
Roman Catholic superstition that eggs were an
emblem of the resurrection.

[Column 3]

	Easter-tide, as the week succeeding Easter
Sunday was called in former times,was distingu-
ished as a season of great rejoicing. It was the be-
lief of the vulgar, says Dr. Blake in his "Life
and Times of Shakespeare," that the sun him-
self partook of the exhilaration and danced
on Sunday, metaphorically considered; indeed,
the idea may be termed both just and beauti-
ful, as the earth and her valleys standing thick
with grain, are said to laugh and sing. So, on
account of the resurrection, the heavens and
the sun may be said to dance for joy, or, as the
Psalmist words it, "the heaven may rejoice and
the earth be glad."
	Three days only contain the winding up-
scene of the Savior's mission on the earth. The
Church of England names the first "Good Fri-
day"—on which the crucifixion took place. A
rich man—Joseph of Arimathea—went to Pi-
late and begged the body of Jesus, and he took
it down and wrapped it in fine linen, and laid
it in a sepulchre wherein never man was laid.
Convoys of angels were the holy sentinels
watching the sacred repose of that body that
was not "to see corruption." The God spirit
had passed into Hades, the region of the con-
demned, and there "preached to the spirits in
prison," opening the prison doors and bidding
the captives go free. Early on the morning of
the third day, being Sunday, he resumed that
reposing body and walked forth in the garden
of Mausoleum, where Mary is seeking her
Lord; there He meets her and gives her the
first gospel mission to a woman—"Go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to my
Father and to your Father, to my God and to
your God." Mary, Mary! blesed art thou
among woman!


