CAROLINE B. CROSBY.

	Obituary notice of the death of Mother Crosby, who
died on the 17th of February, 1884, aged seventy-seven
years, one month and twelve days.
	Caroline Barnes Crosby was the daughter of Willard

[Column 2]
and Dolly Stevens Barnes, born in the town of War-
wick, Franklin County, Massachusetts, on the 5th of
January, 1807.	
	Her parents removed to Dunham, Canada East, when
she was three years and a half old, where she was reared
and lived until she was married, which took place on
the 26th of October, 1824. She, with her husband, then
removed to Wendell, Franklin Co., Mass, where she was
baptized the following January, 1835, by Elder Samuel
Bent, into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints: Up to the time of her baptism she had been a
member of the Church of England. On the 2nd day of
November she, with her husband, started for Kirtland,
Ohio, where they arrived in the fore part of January
1846, after a cold and tedious journey. There her hus-
band worked on the temple to pay for their board until
the temple was dedicated. And on the 14th of Decem-
ber following their son Alma was born, and living in a
cold, unfinished room, she suffered from much sickness
during the winter; during the season following there
was much apostatizing from the Church, and also very
hard times for living. In the month of June, 1838, with
her husband, she made a visit of five month's duration
with her sister, the wife of Brother Addison Pratt, in
the town of Chautauqua, State of New York, and in the
month of November of the same year, in company with
Brother and Sister Pratt and family, started west; came
on to Putman County, Indiana, and hearing of the ex-
pulsion of the Saints from Missouri, and not knowing
where they would locate, stayed there until the month
of June, 1842, then moved on to Nauvoo, where her
husband worked on the Temple till it was finished suffic-
iently to receive endowments, and with her husband she
went through all the ordinances performed in the Tem-
ple there; she also became a member of the Relief Socie-
ty in Nauvoo, and suffered much sickness and destitu-
tion, witnessing, also, many of the scenes of mobocracy
and violence inflicted upon the Saints there, and late in
the fall of 1846 her husband, by his own labor, having
succeeded in getting a new wagon prepared, and not
having a team of his own, by the kindness of brethren
in the Church, were hauled along by their teams up to
the town of Benton's post, State of Iowa; there they
lived till the spring of 1848, then having obtained a team
by very hard labor among the Gentiles at low wages,
they moved on to Winter Quarters on the Missouri riv-
er.
	There they joined Amasa Lyman's company and
moved on to Salt Lake Valley, arriving there on the 12th
of October of the same year. They resided in Salt Lake
Valley till the spring of 1850, then, being appointed at
the April Conference with others, in connection with
Brother A. Pratt and his family, went on a mission to
the South Pacific Islands. They set sail from San Fran-
cisco in the month of August, arriving on the Islands
in September following. The sailing on the ocean did
not agree with her, she being sea-sick during both pas-
sages, coming and going. She resided on the island of
Tubual during the mission with her sister (Pratt) and
family, her time being occupied, in connection with her
sister, in teaching schools of the native children. But
being so much advanced in years she and her sister did
not learn the native language so as to speak it as fluent-
ly as the younger members of the families. She took
several of the native children to live with her and
taught them English. The natives of the Islands were
very kind to all the missionaries, furbishing them with
all necessary food and provisions while they remained
on the islands.
	In the month of May, 1852, they sailed from the Is-
land of Tubual to the largest of the Islands, that of Ta-
hiti, where the French had possessions and exercised ju-
risdiction over all the islands. There her husband
worked at his trade and earned sufficient to pay their
passage back to San Francisco, Cal., Sister Pratt and
family having preceded them on the return homeward,
landing again in San Franscisco in September, 1852, hav-
ing been gone two years from that city. Her husband then
carried on a farm for one season in San Jose Valley, Cal.
after which they went back to San Francisco, where
they lived about two years, her husband working at his
trade. In November, 1855, they sailed from San Fran-
cisco along the coast of California to the landing of
San Pedro, thence to San Bernadino in Southern Cali-
fornia. There they resided two years, in the mean-
time making a nice place and a comfortable home, but
in consequence of the call of the Presidency of the
Church to the Saints in San Bernadino to come away
from there and gather to Utah, they, with the rest, left
their pleasant home there, which they were compelled
to sell at a cheap rate, and gathered up to the Valleys
of the Mountains.


S﻿tarting on New Year’s Day, 1858. from San Bernardi-
no, and arrived on the first day of April at Johnson’s
Fort in Iron Co., where they rented land for one sea-
son and farmed. Then in November of ’58 came to Bea-
ver, Beaver Co., where Brother and Sister Crosby have
lived continuously up to the time of her death.
	Sister Crosby was a faithful and devoted member of
the Relief Society in Beaver, acting as a teacher in that
organization for a considerable length of time. Many
a day has she travelled the streets of Beaver for the pur-
pose of exhorting her slsters to faithfulness in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel of Chrlst. She also made four
journeys to the St. George Temple with her husband to
do work for her dead, and was baptized for about one
hundred of her deceased relatives, and received endow-
ments for fifteen. She was respected for her liberality
and charity to the poor, and has passed away in.the
hope of rising in the first resurrection to eternal glory
and a crown.

