PRIDE AND DRESS. 

	In looking around and  witnessing the ex-
travagance in dress that is obtaining among
many of our young people, and listening to
young ladies talk about dress, I am often re-
minded of the Nephites of old, how they be-
came proud in their hearts and lifted up be-
cause of their fine apparel one above another;
how the rich felt themselves better than their
poor brothers and sisters; also how the judg-
ments of God were poured out upon them be-
cause of these things. There seems to be a
great similarity between their condition then
and ours at the present day, for it is clearly
apparent to all thinking persons that we are
fast drifting into that same state of pride and
folly for which they were chastened. Some
are lifted up in their own estimation because of
their riches, and "class distinction" is fast gain-
ing ground.
	I sometimes fear that we will have to be chas-
tened in order to humble us and compel us to
feel after the Lord. He has said, "Thou shalt 
have no other God before me," and He will not
always bear with those who make a god of the
things of this world. Many of our sisters, the
young ladies especially, seem to think of very
little else than how to adorn their bodies to
present a beautiful appearance, yet they would
be shocked were you to tell them that dress
was their god. But it is verily true that that
which occupies most of our thoughts, that
which we love and delight to reflect upon, is
indeed our god, although we may not realize
the fact. Whenever our mind or time is so ta-
ken up with the adornment of our bodies that
we have not full time to attend to all our meet-
ings and perform every duty pertaining to our
religion, then we are wasting our time and en-
ergies on that wherein there is no profit, and
neglecting that which is of special importance
to us, thereby committing sin in not living up 
to the great privileges our Father has given to 
His daughters in this our day. He has given
us all the talents, reason, judgment, strength 
of body and mind, which we possess, and re-
quires us to use them in His service, and not
in the gratification of our own selfish, proud
natures. What fashionable young lady has
any time to devote to religious purposss? All
can plainly see they have none whatever. Now, 
God's Kingdom must be built up by mortals
here on the earth, and it is equally binding up-
on all the human family to take part in this 
great labor; and as it must be done by some of 
His children, we can see that they who shirk 
their duties must merit the displeasure of their
Father in heaven, as well as being cut off from 
the reward which will eventually be given to 
the diligent and faithful laborers. 
	This life is very short to all, and especially
so to some; then how foolish it does appear for
mortal beings to use their energies for the grat-
ification and pleasure of these earthly taberna-
cles, which will soon be laid in the grave and
crumble to dust, instead of striving for that
which will adorn, make lovely, pure and god-
like our spirits, which are destined to live for-
ever. 
	All should have pride enough to dress in a 
neat and becoming manner, and to do this
would occupy but a small portion of our time, 
but the pride that would make us vain of our
looks and dress, or lift us up in our own esti-
mation above our poorly dressed sisters is sin-

[Column 2]
ful in the extreme, and the Lord will, sooner
or later, humble those who indulge in such
pride. Subduing our wills and the pride of 
our hearts is the deepest and hardest lesson
that mortals have to learn, says Helen Mar
Whitney, and we cannot begin too early to 
learn this important lesson, for we "came not
to do our own will, but the will of our Father
in heaven;" and He has told us that He loves
the meek and the humble, and we certainly, 
even the youngest, desire the love of our Hea-
venly Parent. We should pray constantly that
we may love God and His Gospel more than 
anything else in this world, then if we have 
the love of God in our hearts there will be no
room for the love of dress and fashion; our 
thoughts will dwell on nobler themes, and our 
conversation will be profitable, for "Out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
						MARY F. 
	Written for the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 11th 
Ward.


