MY DEAR MOTHER: 
	For several days we have been saying, on the
20th we must write to mother, sure, and we
have lost no opportunity to inform everyone
that this month our mother will have a birth-
day, which is indeed quite an event in our fam-
ily. How I wish I could be with you to day,
and enjoy the sweet pleasure of your company.
I have been wondering, this morning, how you
would celebrate the day. I hope, however, It
may be a happy, cloudless day for you, and
that it is only the beginning of many happy
years that are to follow. 
	John Q and myself are both in excellent
health, and enjoying ourselves splendidly. John
Q. returned from his trip through the Central
Swiss Conference last Tuesday. He had a very
pleasant time	*	*	To-morrow he
starts off again into the East Swiss Conference
to make some changes there and visit those
branches. I am very glad that he can now get
time to be out among the people more, and a-
way from the office work, though it is very
lonely for me when he is away. He is going
among all the Swiss branches, and perhaps into
the German, we cannot tell until some definite
work is begun concerning emigration.
	Concerning masque balls, I quite agree with
you; not that I know anything wrong about
them myself, for I never attended one, but sim-
ply because I think a prejudice against them was
born in me, and I always rather encouraged that
prejudice.
	We read the papers with much interest, es-
pecially the parts pertaining to the Utah legis-
lation. Even here, in this remote region, there
is much persecution among the Saints, and it


[Column 1]
all seems to originate from ignorance and mal-
ice.
	Three cases lately have come to our notice
where the persecution was put upon a poor, de-
fenceless woman, actuated by nothing more nor
less than spite. One sister here has been very
sick, so low that her recovery was thought to be
doubtful. She was taken to the hospital, where
she received [---] nursing and food, her ailment
being such that she did not require a doctor,
only good nursing was necessary. Here she im-
proved in health quite rapidly, when, through
some of her friends calling to see her, it became
known that she was a Mormon, in one way and
another, they slighted and persecuted her after
that, and finally brought her a paper to sign,
which paper said she was to declare herself for-
ever more against the Mormons, and promise
never to have anything more to do with them; if
she signed this she might stay, if not she had to
go, and though she was not able to leave her
bed, and had no comfortable place to go to, she
left them. When she came here to tell us, and
I saw how her poor knees trembled, and how
weak and emaciated she looked, it made my
heart ache; how could they be so heartless to a
fellow creature? I would'nt test anyone, were
he my bitterest enemy, so cruelly as that, and
she is a good, honest woman, with nothing in
the world against her but her faith.
	Another case occurred in Neuchatel. We have
in that city only three members; a woman and
her little family of two children. Here the
priest, a pretended minister of the gospel, one
who chooses for a text words from that Holy
Book, where charity is so beautifully taught, has
persecuted this poor woman most unmercifully.
He used his influence against her with the peo-
ple, who gave her work, so that he cut off her
only means of sustaining herself and family,
and then persuaded the people, from whom she
rented her room, to drive her cut; this they
could not do just yet as she had paid in advance,
but she is to go as soon as her time is up. In
the mean time she can get no work and no one
will hellp her, so bitterly has the priest worked
against her He went to her and tried to per-
suade her from her belief, and failing in this be-
came so enraged that he actually struck her, and
said she would be driven from the town, for
they wanted no Mormons there. What she will
do I cannot tell. I hope her oldest girl can be
emigrated, then she might be some assistance to
her mother.
	There are many cases of poverty and want a-
mong our people here, but not so much persecu-
tion as I had really expected, though when
cases do come they are usually very heartless
and cruel, such as the ones I have cited.
	I was quite astonished to see in the JUVENILE
a sketch from Sister Atwood's pen. When did
she start out in the literary field? I should think
she might facor the EXPONENT with some of
her articles.
	To-night we have a Relief Society meeting,
and to-morrow night some of the young folks
are going to have a concert here, so you see we
have our little pastimes among ourselves, and
enjoy ourselves very much together. Some of
the girls are very good singers, and I like very
much to hear their Alpine melodies; they are so
pretty, and would delight you I know. If Louie
could hear them she would quickly catch the
tune, and "yodel" like a native, but I am so dull
about picking up tunes that I don't suppose I
ever shall learn them. We have been having
a spell of wet weather lately, and very little
sunshine the last week, but according to the pa-
pers we have been remarkably blessed here in
comparison to what other towns have suffered.
Give my love to father and all the family.
	Remember me to all your lady friends, who's
kindly mention me, and give my love to my
dear sisters, their families and to Louie and my
darling boy.
	For yourself dear mother, accept the fend love
of your daughter, who thinks of ou ever, and
prays continually for your happiness and wel-
fare.					Lovingly,
								Annie


