REFUTED.

	A lecture was delivered by F. C. Brand, in
the Saints Chapel, Sunday evening, Feb. 3rd,
1884, on "celestial marriage frauds," as he
terms it. I will say nothing about the first
part of his lecture, nor the flimsy arguments he
makes use of to sustain himself in his position
as opponent to celestial marriage. His fourth
question is, What shall we do with these wo-
men that have made affidavit that they were
Joseph Smith's wives? Why, we shall cross ex-
amine them. He read to the audience my affi-
davit, and says, "J. Adams denied performing
the ceremony, in 1873, while in London, and in
presence of Emma Smith, who also denies any
knowledge of such a marriage, on her death
bed." Further on he says, "One of the elite la-
dies of Ogden told me that she could swear that
Hyrum Smith married or sealed four women to
his brother Joseph, giving their names, etc."
	Now, I have often wondered, if they really
wanted to learn the truth, why they did not
come and put their questions to me, instead of
going to an "elite lady of Ogden," who made
no pretence of knowing only by hearsay, and if
she did vary a little from the truth, it is not so
very strange, neither is it any proof that plural
marriage is not of God, or that my affidavit is
not true. I have made a statement of facts that
I know; not of what I have heard or believe,
but what is actual knowledge. I am not afraid
of being cross questioned, but even if it were
possible to make me contradict myself, it would
not alter the facts. "Facts are stubborn things,"
and refuse to be obliterated. Facts cannot be
destroyed, no matter how strong the proof or ar-
guments may be, seemingly, that are brought
to bear against them. Truth will stand bold and


[Column 1]
defiant through everything. Truth is the rock
on which I stand, and I know whereof I speak,
and that is why I have no fears. I am willing
to answer any reasonable question that anybody
may desire to ask. The time has been when
my conscience forebade me to speak of these
things, and no cross questions would have made
me reveal the facts. The time had not come to
publish to the world this "holy order of matri-
mony." It would have brought great trouble
upon the Prophet and the people; but now I feel
it my duty to bear my testimony to the truth of
Joseph Smith teaching and practicing plural
marriage some years before his death. And the
revelation given through him was no less true
because it was not written as soon as revealed.
Emma was a witness to Joseph taking plural
wives, on one occasion at least, and if she has
denied it on her death bed (which is very hard
to believe) even forty times over, it does not des-
troy the facts; and as to J. Adams denying that
he performed the marriage ceremony, I think it
is a mistake. It might have been George J.
Adams that denied it, but the one I mentioned
in my affidavit was James Adams, generally
known as Judge Adams, of Springfield, Ill. He
did not reside in Nauvoo, but was there on a
visit. I do not think he would deny it, unless
he had apostatised, and I know an apostate will
say and do almost anything to injure the truth.
But if he and Emma, and every other witness
should deny it, the fact still remains. Emma
seemed to feel well until the ceremony was over,
when, almost before she could draw a second
breath, she turned, and was more bitter in her
feelings than ever before, if possible. She had,
as it were, bound us to the ship and carried us
to mid ocean, then threw us over board to sink
or swim, as the case might be.
	She often made things very unpleasant, but I
have nothing in my heart towards her but pity.
I know it was hard for Emma, and any women
to enter plural marriage in those days, and I do
not know as anybody would have done any better
than Emma did under the circumstances. I think
Emma always regretted having any hand in
getting us into such trying circumstances. But
she need not have blamed herself for that, in
the least, for it would have been the same with
or without her consent, and I have never repen-
ted the act that made me a plural wife. It has
been to me like an anchor cast within the veil.
It gave me a hope that was like a rod of iron to
cling to while wading through heavy mists of
hatred and persecution. And I could say truly:

"I've a hope that will not fall,
It reaches far within the veil,
Which hope is like an anchor,
Oh, that's the hope for me!"

	Yes, that is the hope for me. It will never
perish, and when thorns have been strewn in
my pathway beneath my feet, and dark clouds
have gathered over my head, this hope has
cheered me on my way. I have often locked
back with joy and thanksgiving that I listened
to the "still, small voice that whispered to my
soul." The door is open—enter! It may look
dark, dreary and desolate, but peace, joy and
exaltation lie beyond. The longer I live, and
the more knowledge and understanding I get
pertaining to the principles of the eternal
worlds, the more I rejoice in the one act of my
life that made me the wife of Joseph Smith,
and bound me to him for time and all eternity.
I feel perfectly secure under his guardianship. I
know he was a prophet of God, and I know that
he received the revelation on celestial marriage
years before it was written, and it was through
him that the revelation was given making
known the baptising for the dead, and through
him many other points of doctrine were reveal-

[Column 2]
ed. He organized the Relief Societies, also the
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Societies, and
these revelations of Joseph Smith's are the rock
on which this Church is built, and it cannot be
shaken. It is as firm and immovable as the
mighty rocks that form the mountains with
which we are surrounded. The principles of
the Gospel are perfect and cannot be confounded.
Mankind is weak and imperfect, they may be
shaken, and perchance some may fall, but God's
work will never fail.
	Then let those who love a lie better than the
truth have the desires of their hearts. Let
them cherish falsehood and hide themselves in
its subtle threads. Let them build for them-
selves a foundation of quicksand, and a platform
of cobwebs. They will see, sooner or later, that
it will melt from under their feet as the dew
wastes before the morning sun. Let them heap
reproach upon my head, and scoff at the order
of celestial marriage, what do I care? it does not
hurt me in the least. I rejoice in my religion,
and I appreciate the blessings that I enjoy as a
Latter-day Saint.
	I have borne the contempt and sneers of the
world for years, and I can still bear them. My
hope is buoyant, and I fear nothing that the
enemy of righteousness can do. Let them fight
the truth, trample it in the dust, besmear it
with their filth, yet truth, eternal truth, will
rise bold and unblushing, in spite of all opposi-
tion. This is my testimony to all the world,
and it is true, whether they receive it or not.
There may be a few who will receive it, and re-
joice in the privileges and blessings that God
has bestowed upon His people in the last days.
For my part I am not ashamed of my religion;
I love every part and portion of it. Neither am
I ashamed of my name, nor would I be even if
it was,

