MRS. LOCKWOOD'S SPEECHES.

	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood has been up in the
State of New York recently, and was there in-
terviewed on the Mormon question by newspa-
per reporters. Mrs. Lockwood said:
	"I spoke upon the Mormon question at last
year's convention and also went before the Com-
mittee on Territories. For that the Mormon
people passed me a resolution of thanks and al-
so took up a collection and sent me $100; but I
cannot say that I am retained in their behalf
thereby. I was Vice-President for the District
of Columbia of the Woman's National Suffrage
Association, and was this year asked to make a
speech of thirty minutes before the convention
on any subject that I should choose. I selected
woman and her relation to trades and profes-
sions, and prepared myself to speak on it, with
the knowledge of Miss Anthony and Mrs. Se-
well, Chairmen of the Executive Committee.
The day before the Convention met, Miss An-
thony saw me and said that my subject en-
trenched upon the subjects of some of the other
ladies, and that as I could more readily change
than any of them, she desired me to take up the
subject of disfranchisement of the women of
Utah and Wyoming, remarking, "If you do not
treat that subject, no one else will, as they have
neither the knowledge nor the courage.' In my
speech I made a legal argument against the pas-
sage of the Hoar amendment to the Edmunds'
bill, and the Cassidy bill. I showed that the
Hoar amendment, which contains a clause to
disfranchise the women of Utah, is unconstitu-
tional and inquisitorial; and that the Cassidy
bill to wipe out the Legislature of the Territory,
is an unwarranted usurpation of power by the
general government. The portion of my speech
which specially caused the commotion was when
I compared the religions of the world, showing
how they had their origin. Joseph Smith had
but six followers.	*	*	*	*
	In six years the Mormons increased
to 15,000, and to-day they number over 100,000.
The Methodist Church of America started with
a membership of six persons, in St John Street,
New York. Now its membership is 4,000,000.
I showed the origin of Mohammsdanism, pre-
cisely as that of the Mormon religion, and quo-
ted that Mohammed said, 'If you do not be-
lieve that this book is from God, see if you can
write a better one.' The Mohammedans now
number 180,000,000. All these religions were
persecuted, in the beginning, and my object
was to show that to persecute a church was only
to increase its membership. On this line of
thought I said it was religious persecution that
settled the shores of the rock bound New Eng-
land and drove the Baptists out of Connecticut.
The Government, I claimed, had no more right

[Column 2]
to attack and despoil the Mormon Church than
the Catholic or any other church. That policy
in Utah where every man supports his wives
and children is not so much worse than the pol-
icy in the District of Columbia where men re-
tain their numerous wives, but refuse to recog-
nize them or support them or their children. I
don't believe in the Mormon religion any more
than in the Mohammedan. I was educated a
Methodist and have largely attended the Bap-
tist Church. I don't know that I would swear
by any of them. I am willing to accord to
every person perfect freedom in political and re-
ligious matters."
	Mrs. Lockwood, speaking of her alleged re-
tainer by the Mormons, said: "I am the attorney
and my credentials are filed, for the State of
Panama. I was appointed by the Commission-
er to look after the interests of that State.
Whenever the liberties of the Mormon women
of Utah are threatened, they telegraph or write
to me, but it is not because I am a Mormon, but
because I am a woman suffragist and a humani-
tarian.
	"In regard to my speech at the convention, I
may add that Miss Anthony arose and said to
the audience that the Woman's Suffrage Na-
tional Association had nothing to do with any
legislation in Congress that treated men and wo-
men alike, upon which I begged pardon of the
andience for not having discernment enough to
distinguish the difference between the rights of
men and the rights of women." Mrs. Lockwood
prefers her position upon the question to that of
Miss Anthony."
	Joaquin Miller, when before the Committee
on Territories at the National Capitol, where he
had been summoned to speak on the subject of
Mormonism, met with a lady lawyer, who had
come purposely to speak on the same subject,
Mrs. Lockwood, and he gives his idea of the wo-
man and her speech, and as he is a very pleas-
ant writer, although he does not know all about
Mormonism, we will give his description in his
own words, as his style is very humorous, and
certainly original.
	"She came with a whirr, a snap, conscious-
ness and self-assertion that at once was a sort of
challenge to battle. O, woman, woman! Don't
you know that the day you succeed in making a
soldier of yourself, you will have to fight for
every inch of ground you get instead of having
the whole earth given you, as it is now.
	"She ran around among the chairs and tables
and men, like a little speckled hen that had lost
her last chicken.
	"Then she fluttered down beside the clerk,
slammed down some books and saying, "I am
here to make a speech this morning," proceed-
ed to unroll papers and write furiously.
	"The Committee was not yet in session, and
I in conversation with a Member incidentally re-
marked that we had in early days coined gold in
Oregon. She shot up, and not even deigning to
look at me, she shouted: "And that in the face
of the Constitution, which says, No state shall
coin money issue bills of credit." Then the
head dropped, the deft hand flew, and the pen
rattled over the paper.
	"The Chairman called to order, the lady law-
yer was at once on her feet; and shouted out her
purpose to be heard on the momentous Mormon
question: on motion of someone, fifteen minutes
was allotted for her speech. Catching up her
books, bag, and manuscript, hastening to the
far end of the room, she took position just under
the fox and rattlesnake, and laying down the
papers she crossed her pretty hands and looked
at us tranquilly, triumphantly, a long time un-
der her geld rimmed glasses. This woman fam-
ous in the annals of this city, standing there
with folded hands, under the ferocious fox of
Oregon, had it all her own way at once. She

[Column 3]
was pretty to begin with. No bangs; no frizzels;
no foolishness at all in dress or address. Her
heavy, grey hair was combed back in the old
chaste style, and showed a splendid brow and
fine, earnest face. All leaned forward and lis-
tened eagarly as she began, and as she went on
for the first few minutes. Her English, her ar-
ticulation, her elocution, all seemed perfect. I
doubt if any man in Congress could use better
language, or use it with more grace and precis-
ion. For the first fifteen minutes no man
moved or spoke, but at twenty minutes she be-
gan to fail, to flounder about, to blunder. She
had forgotten her piece. And then, poor dear,
she had undertaken to settle the whole stu-
pendous Mormon question, the morality and
immorality of it; to expound the Constitution,
compare Congress to King George, all in fifteen
minutes! No wonder she got beyond her depth.
Men got impatient; they began to talk; some
giggled as she soared and soared to her final ap-
peal and got so high that she melted the wax of
her wings and fell to the ground there under the
gentle rattlesnake and the ferocious fox of the
far off Oregon. Evidently the old member, who
had muttered something not complimentary as
she first entered, was like myself, thinking of
old Rome. For as she gathered up her papers
after forty minutes of able defence of the Mor-
mons; and fluttered to her seat, he settled back
and said to himself, "Great Caesar!"
	"As a faithful chronicler of unique things
here at our country's Capital, I am free to admit
that there are many men, myself among the
number, who could not have made, to save their
lives, such a speech! The only real trouble a-
bout it all was in not knowing when to stop. At
the end of twenty-five minutes the Chairman
had to call her to order She, womanlike, want-
ed to have the last word. She was allowed five
minutes more, and took fifteen to end."


