DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel inspired to communicate, through your
valuable paper, the EXPONENT, a few of my
thoughts, although I cannot convey in writing
my true feelings. In reading the anniversary
of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's 80th birthday,
suffice it to say, that I heartily endorse all that
my sisters have said through Sister Pratt, and
although debarred of her personal counsel and
society, I fully appreciate her sterling worth as
an organizer and leading spirit in this last dis-
pensation. The dauntless heroism she has dis-
played proves that woman is capable of rul-
ing. She has shown her adaptability as a lead-
er in the woman's organizations of this Church,
over which she presides. It is a standing mon-
umen[-] to her genius worthy of being handed
down to the latest generation. We pray for the
choicest blessings of heaven to attend her in
her declining years, that her life may be pro-
longed on the earth until she is satisfied with
life. What joy and satisfaction I have taken
in reading her soul-inspiring poetry when
weighed down with care and bereavement, and
passing through the dark valley of trouble it
has raised me to faith, hope and life. I feel
that the greatest tribute we can pay her is to
follow her wise counsel and emulate her exam-
ple, teach our children the principles of truth
that she has spent her life in promulgating.
	In reading yonr editorial on Woman's Suf-
frage, I feel to acknowledge the power of our
Heavenly Father in working upon the hearts
of our sisters in the east in causing them to
take the interest they do in the momentous
question of woman's rights, as it is a question
involving a great deal to us, and one upon
which depends, in a great measure, the future
prosperity of this nation; the nation has be-
come so corrupt in the hands of men that it
will take the modifying influence of woman to
help them out of the mire.
	We believe that man is not complete with-
out the woman, and that they should work
conjointly that the best good may accrue, it is
folly to fight against equal rights; it is an un-
deniable fact that women are conscientious in
their views of right and wrong; that they are
more inclined to religion than men, that they

[Column 2]
have a finer spiritual nature, and I think that
men of thought and understanding cannot help
but see that it will be to their interest to have
woman take her proper place and work as hav-
ing the same object in view, the elevation of
the human family.
	I have been re-reading Judge Black's argu-
ment on the right of Iocal self-government; (it
should be written in letters of gold and treas-
ured in the home of every lover of the princi-
ples of freedom and equal rights) he says: "A
violation of constitutional law is not an offense
which is ever made venial by the occasion, you
cannot do evil that good may come, the evil is
there, but the good never comes." Just the
stand we take. You cannot go around the
constitutional law, giving us local self-govern-
ment, and thrust upon us our avowed enemies
to rule over us. That theory carried out would
make us a community of slaves, subject to the
will of Congress; and we, having no represent-
ative in that body, would be subjected to any
legislation they might see fit to [-]ake, howev-
er detrimental to the people's interest, We
have a local government here made by men of
the people's choice, and we claim the right to
sustain that government according to the right
given us by the Constitution; and we, the wo-
men of Utah, being made equal with men,
think it possible, by application and study, to
ultimately attain to the qualifications necessary
to the filling of any position woman may be
fitted for or called upon to fill. Then why
should men seek to deprive us of our rights?
Would it not be more god-like to help in the
advancement of women in their political aspir-
ations? As much so as in their charitable en-
deavors to elevate the human family. Why
uot give their faculties full scope when they
seek to do good? Do they think that what
woman does will dim the lustre of their glory?
Will it not rather add to it? Do not women
feel the same aspirations to be great and noble
as men? Do they not feel the same patriotic
fire, the same love of liberty? Yes. And we
do not feel too refined to meddle with politics;
we feel a lively interest in it, and the more we
study and comprehend the more we want to
know. Some say that it unfits a woman for
her household duties to take an active part in
law and politics; but it is not so; it makes her
feel the importance and necessity of greater
care being thrown around her family, and pro-
tecting them from the corruptions of the world,
for she cannot study and obtain a close insight
into the doings of men, holding the destiny of
nations in their hands, without seeing the cor-
ruption that is sapping away the foundations of
honor, truth and chastity from the nations of
the earth, and it makes her heart bleed for the
future generations; unless God shall help,
strengthen and support the government there
would be no hope. There certainly is a great
necessity for some powerful agency to promote
the good of the human family.
	We, as mothers in Israel, feel to humble our-
selves before God and crave His help to sus-
tain us in our endeavors to live uprightly and
honest and meekly with ourselves, and true to
God and our religion. Always keep the exam-
ple of Jesus, our Elder Brother before our
eyes continually, that we may not imbibe the
spirit of the world and become bitter towards
those that persecute us for our religion, but let
us say, "Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do." But while we forgive we do
not want to lose sight of our honor, our rights
and our dignity.
	The Almighty will deal out judgment and
justice to the wicked. The Lord says through
the mouth of His prophet, "The anger of the
Lord is kindled against the wicked and His
sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall
upon the inhabitants of the earth; and the arm
of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day com-
eth that they who will not hear the voice of the

[Column 3]
Lord, neither that of His servants; neither gives
heed to the words of the Prophets and Apos-
tles, shall be cut off from among the people."
He also says: "Behold I, the Lord, utter my
voice, and it shall be obeyed; verily, I say, let
the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious
fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold
their lips, for the day of wrath shall come up-
on them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall
know that I am God."
	We feel to warn and exhort all to let truth
and reason guide them, and let judgment rest
with God.
	We are living in a momentous age, and it is
all important that we make our religion our
first object; that we seek the interest of the
Kingdom of God; the time is coming, and is
close at hand, that will try us to the core, and
unless we have on the whole armor we may
find that we lack the strength that is requisite
to enable us to stand firm and weather the
storm. We feel the need of strengtn out here in
this region, shut in, as it were, by mountains
on every side, and deprived of the counsel and
help of our sisters that stand at the head of
our organizations, and we will rejoice when
travelling facilities are such that we can have
our sisters visit us occasionally. We are pro-
gressing as well as can be expected with our
limited facilities, under the wise supervision of
our respected president, Sister Larsen; we held
our conference on the 2nd of last month, and
had a splendid time, the Spirit of the Lord
was richly poured out upon the sisters, and we
felt to rejoice in the Lord.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
				Your sister,
