BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)
	Sunday, the 31st. A general conference had
been appointed, but as the meeting was about
to commence a heavy storm arose which
caused the people to disperse. They met again
in the afternoon, but the rain prevented them
from effecting much, and it continued through
the day and night.
	This day, Horace wrote, "Bro. Noah Rogers
expired to-day after an illness of ten days. He,
Bro. Grouard, Bro. Addison Pratt and Bro.
Hanks, were the first to introduce the Gospel
to the inhabitants of Toobouia and Tahiti Is-
lands, belonging to the Society Group in the
Pacific Ocean. Bro. Rogers was gone about
three years, during which time he, with his
brethren, accomplished a great work and were
the means of bringing many to a knowledge of
the truth. He has left a large family to mourn
his loss, but one great consolation to them will
be the fact that he died in full faith of the
Gospel, and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection, having the conscious satisfaction that
many a dark and benighted heathen had,
through his instrumentality, been led into the
"straight and narrow path that leads to eternal
life."
	Monday, the 1st of June. It continued rain-
ing till about noon, when it cleared off. This
is my mother's and President Young's birth-
day. Horace wrote that he had watched part
of the night with Jacob Frazier, who was get-
ting better; was very cold weather iudeed for


[Column 1]
the time of year. He says, "Horace Rockwell
arrived here to-day from Nauvoo, bringing the
mail; he left the city last Wednesday—brought
me a paper, (Hancock Eayle), from Waterman
Phelps, by reading which I found that Porter
had taken a change of venue to Joe, Davies
County, and is to be tried at Galena on Mon-
day, the 8th inst. The rumors we have heard
of his being shot in his unsuccessful attempt to
escape from Quincy Jail are entirely ground-
less—on the contrary, he has made no attempt
to escape, and has declared that were ever so
good an opportunity to present itself he would
not avail himself of a chance to escape, but
would await his trial. Rockwell says there did-
not seem to be much hostility manifested to-
wards him, Porter, where he had been, but
rather a feeling of curiosity to behold such a
noted individual, and that he had a great num-
ber of visitors, who daily flocked to see him.
He is treated kindly, uniformly, both by the
officers of the law and the people."
	"Tuesday, the 2nd.	*	*	Struck our
tents—sun about an hour high—crossed the
river, went two miles and encamped on the
prairie. Brigham is three miles ahead, he hav-
ing started yesterday.	*	*	*	The
roads somewhat muddy, but improving."
	It rained a little during that night—-just as
we were about starting next morning a young
Indian, belonging to the Pottawatomie tribe,
rode up on a pony—he had a young spotted
fawn in his arms, which father bought of him,
giving him a dollar in silver, but it died in a
couple of days after. We overtook President
Young before his tents were struck, stopped
there about three hours, where Bishop Whit-
ney overtook us, having come that morning
from Mt. Pisgah. "The whole camp proceed-
ed six miles," wrote Horace, "and encamped
on the prairie near some timber, making in all
nine miles to-day. This morning, before start-
ing, wrote two letters for Bro. Kimball, one to
the Trustees in Trust, the other to Sister Mary
Smith, Hyrum's widow; he intends sending
them by Bro. Markham. Bro. Kimball gave
him an order on the Trustees for four yoke of
oxen, he having given up his team to him."
	The next day was cold and cloudy, accom-
panied by quite a sharp wind. We started
quite early that morning, leaving Bishop Whit-
ney behind—he had lost his cattle during that
night. We went about eight miles and baited
al out noon, where we saw some fine looking
Indians on horseback. We went ten miles fur-
ther and encamped on the prairie near the tim-
ber and a stream of water. Our road that day
was altogether ou the prairie, which we were
told was eighteen miles long, being the dis-
tance we had accomplished that day; the long-
est day's journey since we left Nauvoo. We
had just encamped when Bro. A Fielding over-
took us and remained with us all night. He
was to start next day for Nauvoo. A day or
two previous to this my husband's sister, Sarah
Ann, commenced tenting with us and we con-
tinued together till houses were built at Winter
Quarters.
	"Friday, the 5th" Horace wrote, "somewhat
obscured by clouds this morning, and a little
rain, but it soon cleared off cloudless and beau-
tiful. Wrote a letter this morning for Bro.
Kimball to Bro's Huntington, Benson and
Rich, at Mt. Pisgah, requesting four yoke of
cattle. Started about eight, and about ten
o'clock struck the Indian trail leading from
Racoon Fork to Council Bluffs, passed through
some very romantic spots and quite a diversity
of scenery to what we have hitherto seen on
our passing, route o'er hill and through brake
and bush." We saw the remains of a good
many Indian wigwams, which had the appear-
ance of being constructed some time since.
They were composed of boughs of trees curi-
ously interwoven. Just before reaching our
place of encampment for the night we saw a

[Column 2]
large number of them which had fallen down
and were dried, and as we intended going on a
little further before stopping, and there being
nothing but prairie before us as far as the eye
could extend, everyone gathered a bundle for
firewood. Wm. found a small breastplate that
had evidently been lost by an Indian. We
traveled about fourteen miles to-day—father.
has not yet come up with us. We encamped
on a small creek, and Brigham also within a
short distance from us.
	Saturday, the 6th. Rained a little during
the day, traveled about fourteen miles and en-
camped on the bottom in the vicinity of quite
a large creek. The wagons were all arranged
successively in a circle of about a quarter of a
mile in circumference, thus making; an inclos-
ure for our horses; just as we were encamping
father, with his teams, came up.	*	*
Would have overtaken us before had they
not stopped to repair a wagon.
	Next day being Sabbath a meeting was cal-
led at ten o'clock. Brother Brigham and fa-
ther spoke at some length, exhorting the peo-
ple to the observance of the ordinances and
commandments of God. A number of Indians
and squaws, Pottawatomies, who were camped
some four or five miles from us, came to see us
mounted on their ponies and horses, and decor-
ated and painted in their gay and peculiar
style. We started in the afternoon and went
about seven miles, and encamped just about
sunset on a small creek near the timber, Presi-
dent Young arranging his wagons on one side
of the road, and father his on the other. This
was a beautiful day for traveling, the roads be-
ing very good. Here one of Brother Dike's
oxen had its neck broken—being turned loose
in the yoke. Bishop Miller built a bridge here
and we saw on a tree, before crossing, an in-
scription done with a knife, "Lost Fork
Bridge."
	On the 8th, Horace says, "Started about eight
this morning, traveled about four miles and
came to a river.	*	*	which we cros-
sed on a bridge and passed through the viliage
where the Chief of the Pottawatomies resided.
Immediately after crossed the same stream
again, which bears the name of Manottawa, or
the "Sleeping Rock." probably originating
from some wild legend or tradition of the In-
dians. Here we stopped about an hour and
baited our cattle; during which time we were
visited by a great number of the tribe, both In-
dians and squaws. The chief went to Brigham
and wanted him to pay them for the grass
which the cattle eat; this request they were
probably "put up to" by some of the whites,
enemies to our people. While we stopped here
we had the amusement of seeing two or three
horse races. They have very fine horses and
ponies among them, as we found out to our sat-
isfaction by running with them—traveled four-
teen miles and encamped on another small
creek near the timber. Father and Brigham
had already arrived here, and encamped. At
this place, just before descending the hill to the
river, we saw an Indian burial ground, which
we distinguished by a white flag that we saw
fastened to a tree. The Indians appeared to
be in quite a destitute condition, offering us va-
rious ornaments, such as beads, wampum and
other trinkets in exchange for food. Father
called his portion of the camp together and ad-
monished them to get their firelocks ready in
case of emergency. The names of the ones
who never had been organized were called over;
these were fourteen, it seems, of whom Brother
Alva Tibbitts was appointed captain. Hor-
ace continues:
	"Thursday, the 9th. Beautiful day! started
about eight this morning.	*	*	To-
wards evening arrived at a spot something like
an inclined plain, situated on a small creek and
environed by trees on each side. On account
of the uncommon beauty of the place Brother

[Column 3]
Kimball named it "Paradise." We then cros-
sed the creek, ascended the hill and proceeded
about a mile and encamped on another creek in
the vicinity of timber; here found a beautiful
spring of water, which rivaled in sweetness any
I ever saw."
	Here, wa found Bro. Lorenzo Young, who, as
a rule, camped a little distance from the rest
to favor Sister Harriet Young, who was a con-
stant sufferer from asthma, and desired to be
quiet, which was out of the question in a large
camp, and as young as I was she had my sym-
pathies. We learned from Uncle Lorenzo that
President Young had encamped three miles a-
head, where Bishop Miller and company were
engaged in bnilding a bridge, so we stopped
here, having traveled about thirteen miles.
	Next morning a number of our camp went
to assist in building the bridge. Father and
Bishop Whitney drove over to see the President,
and in the afternoon be came back in his car-
riage with Sister Mary Ann Young. He, with
father and Bishop Whitney, mounted their
horses, while sister Young, my mother and
Mother Whitney got into the carriage and went
after strawberries. They returned towards
evening bringing three or four quarts.
	Horace wrote: "To night we boys returned,
having finished the bridge. Had quite a pleas-
ant time this evening, which we spent in danc-
ing on the green grass till bed time; the bright
orb of night shining in all its glory over our
heads."


