DEAR SISTERS:
	In reviewing our work of the past year, we
find improvement has been made by many of
the Associations, and we hope to make very
great improvement in the future if we profit
by the experience gained. Then let us, in the
new year just opening before us, renew our ex-
ertions, and strive more diligently to accom-
plish the tasks appointed, that at its close we
may feel better satisfied and better qualified to 
fulfil our duties.
	Your faith and works are earnestly desired
in the cause of Mutual Improvement. The
Presidency of the Church, in its wisdom, has
organized these Associations that the young
people in Zion may have an opportunity of  ac-
quiring knowledge and learning how to use it,
that they may become acquainted with the
writings of inspired men, with the science of
theology, and the truths found in science, his-
tory, literature and art.
	The first step in this work of improving our-
selves, is to learn the will of our Father in
Heaven.  We may do this by reading careful-
ly the Bible, Church works and other good
 books; by listening to the instructions of His
authorized servants; by being humble, prayer-
ful, and obedient to those in authority; by
seeking good society, and finding pleasure in
the faithful performance of all duties which de-
volve upon us as daughters of Zion.
	Search the Scriptures and Church Works,
inform ourselves that we may be able to de-
fend the principles of our faith, and teach the
glorious truth to younger brothers and sis-
ters. It is not our mission to go abroad and
labor among the nations of the earth, but we
have a great and noble work to do at home.
Let us not waste time in wishing and waiting
to do some great thing afar off, but secure fa-
vor in the sight of God by observing and doing
the little duties that lie near us.
	Each officer and member of the Associa-
tions in this Stake is particularly requested to 
observe and execute the following sugges-
tions:
	Be industrious; idleness promotes iniquity.
It is written, "An idle brain is the devil's work-
shop."
	No girl should consider herself properly ed-
ucated until she has mastered some employ-


[Column 1]
﻿ment or accomplishment by which she can gain
a living, should she have occasion to support
herself; hence, every girl should have a knowl-
edge of housework, and do such work cheerful-
ly, for much of the happiness depends upon it;
she should learn the art of housekeeping in all
its departments; she should have a knowledge
of arithmetic that her accounts may be kept
accurately, of spelling and writing, that her
communications may be neatly and correctly
represented.
	Encourage the study of vocal and instrumen-
tal music. It makes home more pleasant, and
meetings more attractive. It has a refining,
softening influence with the wayward, and
reaches them when words fail. Learn to read
well; this is an accomplishment within the
reach of all.
	Order is a necessary virtue; there can be no
comfort without it. To have a place for things
and not keep them in it, is like having wise
laws and paying no regard to them. Cultivate
order and method.
	The deportment of the older children of a
family is of great importance to the younger
members. Especially is the position of eldest
daughter one of responsibility. Let her then
take double pains to be amiable, wise and in-
dustrious, loving and obedient to parents, cour-
teous and polite to all; but particularly to the
aged.
	Read books which treat of women. Every
woman should have a knowledge of herself, for
in such knowledge is her safety. Guard sacred-
ly your virtue by purity of thought and act-
ion. There will be no brighter jewel in your
crown.
	Inasmuch as the Presidency of the Church
have, at different times, expressed their disap-
proval of round dancing, the officers and mem-
bers of these Associations are recommended to
abstain from it.
	Observe the counsel of your presiding offi-
cers in regard to conducting parties and enter-
tainments. Avoid being drawn into fashions
and habits of dancing which are unbecoming.
Write for your manuscript paper.
	Never speak lightly of things we hold sa-
cred. Attend Sabbath School and Meeting.
When the Sacrament is administered, partake
of it humbly in remembrance of our Savior.
	Never be rude and boisterous. Always a-
void talking, laughing and whispering in meet-
ing or where it will disturb others.
	Avoid backbiting and criticising authorities.
Avoid slang expressions.
	Cultivate faith, charity and mercy. Tell
one another in a kind, sisterly manner of
faults.
	Commit to memory sentences, stanzas, and
paragraphs from any good work.
	Be truthful in thought, word and deed.
	Urge young men to abstain from the use of
tobacco and intoxicating liquors. Beware of
those who have no faith in God, or who speak
lightly of sacred ordinances.
	Pay your donations to the Deseret Hospital
promptly every month. It is conducted by
women for the benefit of the afflicted, and
should be sustained by the sisters.
	Temple donations should be made in the
name of the giver, and not in the name of the
society.
Learn and teach proper methods of ventila-
tion, bathing, etc., for good health is necessary
to enable one to study, work and life.
	(Officers.) Hold your meetings regularly
and promptly at the appointed hour. If you
are unable to attend, send an excuse. Some of
the officers should always be present.
	In conjoint sessions the Priesthood should al-
ways preside. Devote a part of each meeting
to bearing testimonies. Have, if possible, one
or more representatives present at our confer-
ences, and at the. officers’ meetings, in Logan
Tabernacle, at the same day and hour as
(Column two)
Priesthood meeting.
	The Secretary should keep a roll and a cor-
rect record of meetings; should give one or
more sentences in the speakers’ exact words,
and be careful to give the purport of what is
said and done.
Keep the minutes copied in a suitable book.
If the Secretary is unable to do this, she
should resign that another may be appointed
who can attend to the work. Keep a correct
account of the money received and paid out,
so that the financial report will be correct.
The money you have paid out, added to the
money you have on hand, must equal the
whole amount received, then your account is
said to balance; if it does not balance there is
some mistake.
	Look at the reports for semi-annual reports,
and see that a correct record of all items men-
tioned thereon is kept. Fill the reports
promptly and return at specified time.
	If the Secretary does not know how to keep
the books, let her seek information from some
one in the ward, or bring the book to the offi-
cers’ meeting, and the Secretary will teach
her.
	Members, carry out the instructions of your
officers.	
	The Programme Committee will find profit-
able lessons to bring before the members in the
following works:
	Bible.—Daniel, first and second chapters;
Proverbs third and fourth chapters; Matthew,
third, fifth, sixth, seventh, thirteenth aud
twenty- fifth chapters.
Book of Mormon.—Books of Ether, Mosiah,
Alma; Third Book of Nephi; Book of Moroni,
and Second Book of Nephi, second chapter.
	Voice of warning. Key to Theology, Spen-
cer’s Letters, Preceptor, and in the Faith Pro-
moting Series.
	Use a portion or all of the money made at
entertainments and parties to purchase books
for your Library. Send the money with a list
of the books you already have, and those you
want, to Ida I. Cook, Logan, and a committee
will complete the list and order the books for
you. By ordering a number they can be had
cheaper.
	Trusting that you may have profitable and
interesting meetings, and much pleasure in the
great Work of Mutual Improvement, and
wishing you a Happy New Year, wo are your
co-laborers and Sisters in the Gospel,
					Harriet A. Preston,
					Ida I. Cook,
					Kennie B. Caine,
Presidency Y.L.M.I.A. Cache Valley Stake.
	Logan, Utah, January 1st, 1884.


