R. S. REPORTS.
		REORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of the 12th 13th Ward Relief
Society held May 5th, 1910, President
Amelia W. Wardrop presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer was offered by Bishop P. B. Platt.
Singing again, “Redeemer of Israel.” Roll
call showed an attendance of 5 officers, 30
members and 3 visitors. Reports of the
different blocks were given.
	President Wardrop made a few opening
remarks. She felt very grateful to the sis-
ters for the interest shown in the Relief So-
ciety work. Sister Carrie C. Platt then re-
ported the condition of the sick at the hos-
pital which was very encouraging. Sister
Matilda King volunteered to make the next
visit.
	Bishop Platt spoke for a short time,
stated that President Wardrop wished to be
released from her position on account of
having moved out of the ward, and that it
was with a feeling of deep regret that he
consented as she had been a most faithful
worker in the Relief Society. An oppor-
tunity was then given to the sisters to ex-
press their feelings towards Sister Wardrop.
Nearly all the sisters present expressed their
great love and respect for her, and told of
the grand and noble work she had done and
that her absence would make them feel that
they had lost a very dear friend.
	Sister James of the General Board and
Counselor in the Stake was present and
spoke in behalf of Sisters Romney and Annie
K. Hardy that they felt sorry indeed to
know that Sister Wardrop was to leave the
society, and that they all have the greatest
love and respect for her, urged the members
to uphold and sustain the new officers.
	Sister Wardrop said she had enjoyed her
labors very much, and that she felt very
sorry to leave wishing the new officers
much success and pleasure in their new
position.
	Sister Mary Winder Carrington was then
sustained as President, Sister Jane E.
Beatie First Counselor and Sister Henrietta
E. Hammer Second Counselor, they were set
apart for the positions by Bishop F. B. Platt.
A vote of thanks was given to Sister Emily
Y. Clawson for the good and faithful work
as Counselor while in office.
	President Carrington and her Counselors
each spoke a few words, saying they felt to
accept their position and that they would
do the best they could to fill it properly.
	Sister Emily Y. Clawson expressed her-
self briefly, that although she had been re-
leased from the position as Counselor she
would still attend the meetings as often as
she could and be one with the sisters.
	Meeting adjourned. Congregation sung
the Doxology and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Emma Derrick.
