AFTERNOON SOCIAL. 
	On Thursday afternoon, June 30th, a party
of old acquaintances met at the Bee Hive
House by invitation of Mrs. Julina L. Smith
and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. It was a
beautiful day, and the warm welcome given
by the hospitable hostesses was very sugges-
tive of the enjoyment to follow. The Smith
girls were very attractive and gracious in
waiting upon the guests.
	The meeting of those who had not had
such an opportunity recently of conversing
together was delightful, and one could not
help recalling the old Scotch song, “Should
auld acquaintance be forgot and never
brought to mind.” However the guests
were entertained with fine music, Marion
Whitney Dinwoodey, a gifted contralto
celebrity, sang several times accompanied
by Miss Sybella Clayton, whose fame as a
pianist is widespread also a number of old-
time songs were delightfully sung by Miss
Glen Thomas. The music added greatly to
the entertainment of the ladies.
	An old-fashioned hot and sumptuous din-
ner was one of the delightful features of the
afternoon, and was thoroughly enjoyed by
all present, who did ample justice to the
well-cooked viands.
	Remembrances of Nauvoo and pioneer
days in the valley were talked over during
the afternoon, and the hours flew swiftly.
Such occasions are rare, but it is good to
meet together socially, and recall the hal-
cyon days of youth, even more than the
hard times.
	Of the number of ladies present at this
unique gathering twelve had lived in Nau-
voo, Sisters Agnes Taylor Swartz, Mary Ann
Oakley Taylor Lucy Walker Kimball, Delia
Ann Bishop Pratt, Emmeline B. Wells,
Hannah Free Wells, Susan Alley Wells,
Margaret Judd Clawson, Susan West Smith,
Jane Pratt Kesler, Emma Smith Woodruff,
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	The other ladies present were Julia Cruse
Howe, Elizabeth Murphy, Margaret Y. Tay-
lor, Priscilla P. Jennings, Rachel B. Patrick,
Katherine Howard Brockbank, Mahala Jen-
kins, Sarah E. Richards Smith. The after-
noon will be long remembered and the kind-
ly feeling that prompted it in the hearts of
mother and daughter will be cherished while
life lasts by all who participated in the
pleasurable enjoyment,


