[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened June 23rd,
1910, in the Ninth Ward meetinghouse,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Elder Hugh J. Cannon, President of
Liberty Stake, Elders C. W. Symons and
Milando Pratt of the High Council. Sisters
E. S. Wilcox and A. K. Hardy, of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were present.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox gave us some
timely instructions. President Cannon and
Elder Symons each spoke briefly giving us
some good advice and words of encourage-
ment and comfort.
	The afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock
Judge Alex. McMaster of the Juvenile Court
delivered a very interesting and instructive
lecture on existing conditions and how to
overcome the evils which exist today. The
Judge was listened to with much interest.
	Sisters Annie K. Hardy and E. S. Wilcox
addressed us for a short time endorsing all
that had been done and said.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After singing and
benediction conference adjourned for six
months.
					Lizzie Robbins, Sec.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifty-first regular quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Uintah
Stake, held at Glines Ward, June 2nd, 1910,
beginning at 10 a. m., President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After opening exercises minutes, roll call,
etc. President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters, was pleased to see
so many of the Relief Society workers pres-
ent, especially the President of Roosevelt
(from the reservation); spoke of Mothers

[Column 2]
Work and what a great good it was doing,
especially among the young mothers.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill of Maeser Ward, which was very ably
handled.
	Song, “When there’s love at home.”
	Mrs. May Y. Lambert felt well in meeting
with the sisters, it being the first time she
had had the privilege of being to a Relief
Society conference, she also reported the
Roosevelt society in good condition.
	Mrs Annie K. Bartlett spoke of the lecture
we had listened to. The revelation that we
had just listened to; encouraged us to press
onward and do all the good we can, encour-
aged the sisters to be diligent in getting the
lectures given us, spoke of what a great
blessing the Church school was to the com-
munity.
	Singing, and benediction by Mrs. Fannie
E. Stewart.
	Afternoon session: continued, singing and
prayer and song from Vernal First Ward by
Mrs. Minnie Davis accompanied by Mrs.
Myrtle Belcher.
	Essay from Jensen Ward by Mrs. Mary A.
Chatwin entitled “Temperance.”
	In the absence of Mrs. Emma Woods who
was to give the lecture on Mothers Work,
Mrs. Anna Smart volunteered to give it.
Lecture entitled “The home as a factor in
education.”
	Questions on the lecture were asked by
Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart and answered by the
brethren and sisters.
	Song from Maeser Ward by a group of
Relief Society workers. Recitation by Mrs.
Grace Colton, title “Once More.”
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks, urged the sister to try and put what
they had heard into practice. Thanked the
