	AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Conference convened in the Assembly
Hall at 2 p. m., President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. Congregation sung "Glori-
ous things of Thee are spoken." Prayer by
Sister Susan Grant. Prof. Horace S. Ensign
rendered a solo.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
made the opening address: the subject,
“The Relief Society,” which is so broad and
comprehensive that there is never time for
the half to be told, the 17th of March, 1910,
was the 68th anniversary of its organization,
there were just eighteen persons present on
that occasion, but they were selected for
this purpose, choice women fitted to under-
take this wonderful philanthropic, benevo-
lent work. From this select coterie of ladies
has sprung and spread abroad this magnifi-
cent society, numbering nearly 40,000 wo-
men in our own and foreign lands, and upon
the islands of the sea. The development
of women in many directions of thought and
work and the advancement that has charac-
terized the movement in uplifting the mind
and soul is incalculable. What the world
owes to the idea of womans’ organizations
is immeasurably greater than we have ever
attempted to claim. But we do know we
were the first to be organized in this way,
and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the
founder of this Relief Society, and that we
owe much to Brigham Young who set the
example of unifying the work in branches
and stakes, and to Sister Eliza R. Snow and
her co-workers in carrying out the plan of
correlating so perfectly all the district or-
ganizations of the same kind into one solid
whole with divisions and subdivisions.
The speaker explained why the Relief
Society did not have a general outline of
Mother’s work for the entire society, and
stated that it was to help educate and de-
velop the sisters in their own locality by
doing the thinking and studying of the sub-
jects required, which is all helpful to the
mind and heart. The address closed with
a tribute to the early workers, the great wo-
men of the past, who have enriched our

[Column 3]

lives by their genuine public efforts and per-
sonal self-sacrifice for others, and by the as-
sociation among the people of their own
localities, these few words and much more.
Recitation by Ardella Tibby, "The Soul
of the Violin."
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth gave an in-
teresting paper on Hospitality, which we
publish in full on another page.
	Soprano solo by Lizzie Thomas Edward,
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke on "Ex-
tremes." The speaker felt she had a diffi-
cult subject to deal with and alluded to the
fact which seems apparent that our leaders
were desirous, that the Latter-day Saints
should be as nearly perfect as mortals can
be. The Prophet began the reform by giv-
ing the Saints the “Word of Wisdom.”
Now scientists are taking up the subject
and claim that life would be longer if we
were not such extremists. Nature is mod-
erate in all its actions; the seasons prepare
the earth for the work it has to do. Re-
member Brigham Young, realizing the wo-
men had given too much attention to dress
and to food, organized Retrenchment Asso-
ciations; if there is a place where women
are extremists it is in the work they do; we
should maintain as much simplicity in our
households as it is possible to do. I have
never seen women manage their work like
our women who are called to so much pub-
lic work, but the Lord helps us to do our
duties in the home as well as our Church
duties. In the city conditions are very dif-
ferent to what they are in the country. The
moving picture shows, the resorts running
all night or nearly so, draw our children,
and it is hard to curtail children’s amuse-
ments. Nearly every night there are diver-
sions for the young people; and I believe
that the Latter-day Saint women are not in-
clined to over-dress, they want things beau-
tiful and neat, but not extravagant, and I
do not think it necessary to speak of this
subject, we are moderate, we try to observe
the Word of Wisdom and to obey counsel
of those wiser than we are; but the problem
is before us and we must adjust conditions
as best we can. The speaker closed with a
prayer for our welfare and faithful perform-
ance of our duties required of us from time
to time.
	Emma Woodruff, President of Granite
Stake Relief Society, was to discuss the topic
“Extremes,” she announced that she was
not a preacher but a worker, she believed
in the Relief Society work, and to do all
that is required of us; thought we were try-
ing to do right and live our religion.
	Sister Harriet B. Harker referred to Sister
E. B. Wells’ remarks about the younger
women preferring to remain in the Young
Ladies’ M. I. A., she wondered if we made
our meetings as interesting and as profitable
as we might, for there could be no reason
why they should not join the Relief Society
at the proper age. Sister Harker quoted
from Paul, "We should be temperate in all
things," and remarked those words are just
as true today as when they were uttered.
Extremes in any thing are not profitable.
Let us not have "fads" nor extremes of any
sort; we often hear of people who are ex-
tremists in this and that direction, but let
us remember to be temperate and moderate
and as wise as possible.
	Sister Amy Brown Lyman felt very much
interested in the Relief Society work, though
she was quite new in it, she appreciated
the fact that we needed this relief work,
this work to develop us. Sister Lyman
mentioned the subject of purity, and that


this Church had always taught equal purity
in men and women a fact to which the world
was but just awakening.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne presented a reso-
lution on Home Products, to the effect that
we use our efforts and influence to sustain
all home products in preference to others.
Resolution was passed unanimously by the
entire assembly. Congregation sung, "We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julina L. Smith.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Secretary.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
Secretary pro tem.


