[Column 1]
		CURRENT EVENTS.
	The month of June, 1910, has been a
record month in many respects, here in Salt
Lake City at least; the weather has been de-
lightful except for lack of rain, and many
pleasant and notable events have transpired.
	First day of June the anniversay of the
birth of the great pioneer and founder of
Utah, Brigham Young, was appropriately
celebrated by his numerous family, with the
usual rejoicing and due ceremony.
	Later on, the 14th of June, the anniversary
of the birth of Heber C. Kimball, the Coun-
selor and co-laborer of Brigham Young, two
men whose names will stand together in the
history of the Church and of Utah through-

[Column 2]
out all time; on Heber C. Kimball’s anni-
versary a reunion of the Kimball family was
held in Whitney Hall, and Kimballs, older
and younger came from far and near; and
many old friends and acquaintances at-
ended the reunion by invitation, to honor
the memory of one whose name will always
necessarily be handed down to posterity in
closest connection with that of the great
chieftain, Brigham Young.
	The exercises at the hall were of a digni-
fied character, music excellent, and speeches
somewhat historical; perhaps the most nota-
ble was that of the Governor of the State,
His Excellency William Spry, who eulo-
gized the memory of this great pioneer, and
earnestly exhorted his sons to follow his
noble example.
	The June conferences of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Mutual Improvement As-
sociations were also of more than usual in-
terest this year; they were numerously at-
tended and seemingly great advancement is
being made in the work in which these young
people are so earnestly engaged; which is
very hopeful for Zion’s future interests and 
welfare.
	These two organizations united in a re-
ception held in their new and commodious
apartments or headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, but the exercises and dancing were
in the banqueting hall on the upper floor of
this substantial and handsome structure;
the hall was decorated and fitted up suita-
ble to such a momentous occasion. The
reception was given more particularly in
honor of the officers and members from out-
side the city in the several stakes and
branches of Zion, and that they might soci-
ally partake of the festivities which would
bring them nearer together than it is possi-
ble to get in a meeting, or conference where
there is more or less formality and really no
time for becoming acquainted.
	The music was excellent and the decor-
ations were in good taste, and a spirit of
friendliness and good fellowship was the
prevailing feeling throughout. Invitations
were extended to the officers of other organi-
zations and the presiding authorities of the
Church to participate in the enjoyment of
the evening and meet with the young peo-
ple from a distance who have not so many
opportunities of this kind, as those who re-
side here.
	It has been currently reported that there
have been more marriages this June than
any previous record, whether that is correct
we are not prepared to say, but we know
 that there have been a great many, and that
is a hopeful sign of the times; and certainly
the city is growing rapidly and fast becom-
ing a great center in this mountain region.
	Thousands of tourists call at the Bureau
of Information and purchase our home liter-
ature, of which samples are daily given away
also, and one can see on every hand that
prejudice is being gradually removed, not-
withstanding the slanderous reports that are
still being circulated.
	The Primary Associations must not be
forgotten in connection with June festivities.
It is a very noticeable fact that the children
of the Latter-day Saints at the present day
are being entertained and instructed in all
that pertains to their best welfare. The
sisters who are engaged in this department
have every facility and advantage possible
to assist them along all the lines and meth-
ods that help to develop the best within the
child in mind and body. The annual con-
ference of the Primary Associations was held
early in June and the officers came, many

[Column 3]
of them, from long distances, and the Gen-
eral officers spared no pains in entertaining
as well as counseling them. A reception
was held in the headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, and the upper room or banqueting
hall was decorated with flags, banners
and flowers, and made beautiful in every de-
tail. The General President, Mrs. Louie B.
Felt, who has served now thirty years, was
shown every mark of respect possible. Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, himself in his re-
marks on the evening of the reception made
special mention of her long service and mag-
nificent work. President Felt is very ably
assisted by Miss May Anderson, who re-
lieves her of much of the responsibily and
detail work, and Mrs. Clara Woodruff Beebe
and the secretary, Mrs Olive D. Christensen,
are specially qualified also, and the mem-
bers of the Board who travel in the interest
of the associations are very earnest and de-
voted women. In speaking of this Primary
work mention should be made of its found-
ers and especially of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers,
who was instrumental in evolving the
thought of an organization for the little peo-
ple besides the Sunday School, feeling that
was not quite adequate to all the needs of
helpful teaching of the youngest of the chil-
dren of Zion. The development of the 
thought is in a large degree due to others.
	The evening devoted to the Primary was
unique in its exercises and very pleasing;
new games, new dances, new ways of treat-
ing subjects, were given by some of the
young women who excel along these par-
ticular lines of training the infant mind.
Altogether there was much variety and
great improvement in the status of the work,
and much interest we believe has been
aroused by means of the display made of 
the efforts to teach by doing.


