[Column 1]
		PHILOMELA SMITH LAKE.
	Among the many noble women who em-
braced the gospel in the early days of the
Church was Philomela Smith, daughter of
Parker Smith and Sally Loomis, she being
their sixth child, and born in Brookfield.
Prince Co., Vermont, April 13. 1794. At 
the age of twelve she was bereaved of her
mother and left to the care of her grand-
mother, Sarah Huntington Loomis, who,
although crippled with age, sat in her arm
chair and gave her daughter’s children the
benefit of her wise counsel in domestic
training, as also her deep religious convic-
tion, which was a natural result to all those
who were favored by a rich flow of Puritan
blood in their veins. Many of those splen-
did principles are embodied in the follow-
ing verses which have been handed down
to posterity by the poor lame grandmother
as she addressed herself to Philomela, who
was bereaved of a little brother.

	Your litlle brother is dead and gone:
	We all must die before ’tis long.
	And when you think he young did die
	Say, in the grave I soon may lie.

	And may you early learn to know
	Good children’s souls to God do go;
	At last their bodies sure will rise
	To dwell with Him above the skies.

	She also wrote the following acrostic for
Philomla.

	Pretty girls should always mind
	How they talk and spend their time.
	If they strive with all their might,
	Learn to spin, sew, read and write;
	Obey their parents and they’ll see
	Most glad they surely then will be.
	Every brother must be kind,
	Love sisters, too, and always mind
	And never quarrel or repine.

[Column 2]
	Some little girls are so pretty,
	Many would call them very witty.
	If they are proud they soon will know
	That shame is lurking there below,
	Hence friends will turn, they’ll find it so.

	Philomela, your poor, lame grandmother
has made and written this for you, and you
must have it rolled on a round stick and
keep it a long time to remember me by.
	Thus trained to love God and home, Phil-
omela was capable of taking upon herself
the duties of wife and mother. At the age
of eighteen years she married Ira Smith,
and with him became the mother of five
children viz.: Lyman, James Harvey, Eliz-
abeth Boardman, Josiah William and Es-
ther.
	Ira Smith died in the 36th year of his
age, Philomela then became the wife of
James Lake and with him again the mother
of ten children. She was a wise and loving
mother and was noted for the neatness and
order of her home. She was an adept in
all home manufacture. She knew the art
of spinning, and of dyeing the most beautiful
colors, and in the weaving of many kinds of
cloth she also excelled.
	Her fame as a maker of the best flavored
butter and cheese was known wherever her
name was heard.
	Her children partook of her meek and
docile yet lofty and noble nature and when
the gospel came to them in Upper Canada,
she with her husband and family were the
first ones to embrace it.
	Brigham Young took the gospel to them
and they were baptized by Eleazar Miller.
Their house was always a welcome place
for the elders traveling in Canada, Brigham
Young making their house his home for a
year or more. They gathered with the 
Saints and shared all the hardships of the
early days. James Lake with an ox team
and assisted by his sons, hauled the first
corner stone to the Kirtland Temple and
helped to lay it in its place as the begin-
ning of temple building in this dispensa-
tion.
	Philomela S. Lake received a Patriarchal
blessing under the hands of Joseph Smith,
the father of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, in
which he called her “Beloved of the Lord.”
which name was most appropriate, for she
was not only beloved of the Lord but by all
who knew her. She was tall and graceful,
with broad forehead and full dark brown
eyes. Her black hair was silken and luxur-
iant and the noble name of mother was ap-
propriate to her in its most dignified mean-
ing. Her husband was appointed Captain
of fifty and was successful in arriving in the
valley in the fall of 1850. They settled four
miles north of Ogden city on a farm. James
Lake was ordained a patriarch and many of
the saints of Weber county were comforted
through the blessing they received at his
hands. He was a member of the High
Council and with his wife enjoyed the honor
and esteem of all who knew them while al-
most worshiped by a numerous posterity,
members of which can be found in nearly
every settlement of the saints from Canada
to Mexico.
	I have often thought of the life and career
of my grandmother and have been led to
exclaim: 
	If every soul were of such worth,
	Nearer would heaven be to earth.
