GRNERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
		SECOND DAY.
The Relief Society Conference convened
Saturday morning, April 2, 1910, in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Come, come, ye
Saints,” prayer by Sister R. A. Lyman, sing-
ing "Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire."
	Dr. George W. Middleton delivered an in-
teresting and instructive address, on Tuber-
culosis, its prevention, etc. The learned
Dr. prefaced his remarks by saying he ap-
preciated the privilege of speaking to the
Relief Society, and was always proud of this
organization of women who are working in
the best interests of humanity. Dr. Mid-
dleton gave many excellent facts and figures,

[Column 2]

and the most earnest warning to all to use
methods of sanitation and prevention; he
informed his audience that in times of war
more soldiers die of the infection of the
camps than are killed in the battle, he men-
tioned by way of illustration that the Japan-
ese had put this knowledge to a test in the
war with Russia—for ten years the Japanese
had young men studying in the colleges, all
things pertaining to sanitation and bacteri-
ology, and stated that if an army invaded
our country and one-half the number should
be killed that die annually from tubercu-
losis infection, we would be aghast. The
lecturer occupied an hour’s time and was
listened to with the greatest interest, many
of the ladies taking notes. The Dr. closed
his address by mentioning a book that is
now adopted by the State Board of Educa-
tion,and he hoped would be adopted by our
General board of the Relief Society. The
book is entitled "Primer of Sanitation, by
Ritchie." In recommending the book the
Dr. added, "If we lived up to the knowledge
we possess we could stamp out this terrible
plague. The opportunity that has come to
this Relief Society to stretch out for the suf-
ferings of our fellow men is beyond expres-
sion." After the lecture the conference di-
vided into department meetings, viz: Sec-
retaries and Treasurers, Mother’s work, and
Nurse class work, for an hour’s consultation
on these subjects.

