IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved Sister Ellen. D. 
Clarke. Who passed away at her home in Amer- 
ican Fork, April 13th, 1910. Aged 70 years No-
vember 22nd.
	In being called upon to part with Sister Clarke
we realize that a very dear Friend, has been ta-
ken from our midst; one who was always ready
to help, to comfort, or to contribute of her means
for the benefit of others. Her home was open at
all times, and a warm welcome accorded the call-
er. We feel to bow in humility to the rod. But
Oh how we miss her kind hand, and her gentle
presence, her word of kindness and the sweet
spirit accompaning it. It is hard to be reconciled
to our loss.
	Her seat in our meeting is empty. Her pray-
ers and testimony will be heard no more in our
midst. But the work she has done, and the bless-


ings she has bestowed upon her sisters will be
long remembered, her sayings will be cherished
and her good deeds emulated. She has finished
her work and gone to her rest, leaving a family
of faithful, dutiful, sons and daughters, who
will continue her labors, and help keep her mem-
ory green.
	We who have been associated with her for so many
years know her sterling worth, and we realize that
her loss leaves a vacancy in our hearts that will
not be filled until we meet her in that home,
where there is no sorrow and where parting never
comes. Sister Clarke was a great advocate of seri-
culture having raised the cocoons, reeled the silk
and made silk dresses for herself and daughters.
Truly it may be said of her she sustaind home
manufacture and she was a saint of God in very
deed. “Give her of the fruit of her hands, and
let her own works praise her in the gates.”
A Sister and Loving Friend.
	And in behalf of the Sisters of the Relief Society
of the Alpine Stake we extend to her children
our deepest sympathy, and pray that He who has
said, “That a sparrow falleth not unnoticed”,
will grant unto them His loving tender care, and
be a Father unto the Fatherless
	We desire this Memoriam be kept on record,
and a copy given to the bereaved family, also a
copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT of which
she was a subscriber since thelst of its publication.
	How tender she was at the couch of pain
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs
		Her works were of righteouness,
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom
		Hers teaehings were full of love
	Her example will bear fruition;
		That will follow her above.
					Emma Featherstone
					Orpha Robinson
					Elisabeth J. Durrant.


