[Column 1]
THE FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwel[-], the first woman
to take the degree of M.D., passed away on
May 31, 1910, at her home in Hastings, Eng-
land, aged nearly 90 years.
	Elizabeth Blackwell was born near Bristol,
England, on February 6, 1821. She was the
daughter of Samuel and Hannah (Lane)
Blackwell. Her father was a sugar refiner,
much respected for his high character, a man
of progressive ideas, and in favor of repub-
lican institutions. He sailed with his fam-
ly for America in 1832, and engaged in
sugar-refining in New York. He was warm-
ly interested in the anti-slavery movement,
and in 1838 moved to Cincinnati, Ohio,
partly with the hope of introducing the cul-
tivation of beet sugar, and thereby making
the slave grown cane-sugar unprofitable. But
he died soon after reaching Cincinnati, leav-
ing a widow and nine children dependent on
their own exertions.
	The mother and the older daughters, of
whom Elizabeth was the third, opened a lit-
tle school. Later, Elizabeth taught a dis-
trict school in Henderson, Ky., also taking
private pupils in music and languages. She
was a successful teacher, and received much
social attention, but the frivolous character
of the young men she met did not attract
her. In a letter home, replying to a sug-
gestion that she might marry in Henderson-
she wrote: "I cannot find any other half
here, but only about a sixth, which would
not do."
	Elizabeth was first led to turn her atten-
tion to medicine by the case of a lady friend
who died of a painful illness, of such a na-
ture that it was a severe distress to her mod-
esty to have to receive treatment from a
male physician. She often told Elizabeth
that she would have given anything to be
able to go to a woman doctor.
	Elizabeth wrote to several physicians and
other persons of more or less distinction,
consulting them as to her plan. She said:
“The answers were curiously unanimous.
They all replied to the effect that the idea
was a good one, but that it was impossible
to accomplish it.”
	Dr. Warrington, an old Quaker physician
of Philadelphia, wrote: “I have personally
applied to some of the most intelligent and
liberal-minded ladies of my acquaintance
how far the services of a well-educated fe-
male physician would be appreciated by
them. The response uniformly is, ‘No fe-
male could become acceptable to us, either
as a teacher or practitioner of medicine.”
	But the young girl was, not to be discour-
aged. She went, in 1845, to teach in a
school at Asheville, N. C., kept by a Rev.
John Dickinson, who had previously been a
doctor. Here she studied medicine private-

[Column 2]
ly under him in the intervals of her teaching.
It was before the time of railroads, and two
of her brothers drove her from Cincinnati to
Asheville, eleven days’ journey, crossing
three ranges of mountains and several rivers.
Later, Dr. Samuel H. Dickson, a distin-
guished physician and a professor in the
Medical College of Charleston, S. C., ob-
tained her a position as music teacher in
the fashionable boarding school of Mrs. Du
Pre, in that city, and himself directed the
medical studies that she carried on in her
spare hours.
	In 1847, she went to Philadelphia with
her small savings, studied anatomy under
Dr. Allen, and applied for admission to each
of the four medical col[-]eges of that city; but
in vain. Dr. Pankhurst, professor of sur-
gery in the largest college in Philadelphia,
offered to admit her to his classes, on con-
dition that she would disguise herself as a
man. This she refused to do. Some friends
told her she would have to go to Paris to
study; others said Paris was so immoral that
it would be impossible for a young unmar-
ried woman to take a medical course there.
She said to one of these: “If the path of
duty led me to hell I would go there and
do not think that by being with devils I
should become a devil myself.” She also
wrote to Mrs. Willard of Troy: “I must ac-
complish my end. I consider it the noblest
and most useful path that I can tread, and
if one country rejects me I will go to an-
other.”
	Application to the large medical schools
of New York also proving unsuccessful, she
sent requests for admission to twelve of the
country colleges, including Geneva Univer-
sity (now Hoba[-]t College). Geneva con-
sented. Dr. Stephen Smith, who was a
member of that year’s medical class at Gen-
eva, published in the Church Union some
years ago an account of the matter. He
says that the faculty did not wish to receive
her, and they referred the question to the
class, with a proviso that if a single student
objected, she should not be admitted. The
class consisted of about 150 young men.
He says: "They were rude, boisterous and
riotous beyond comparison. On several oc-
casions the residents of the neighborhood
sent written protests to the faculty, threat-
ening to have the college indicted as a nui-
sance if the disturbance did not cease. Dur-
ing lectures it was often almost impossible
to hear the professors.”
	Of Elizabeth’s application, Dr. Smith
says:
	"The whole affair assumed the most ludi-
crous aspect to the class, and the announce-
ment was received with the most uproarious
demonstrations of favor. A meeting was
called for the evening, which was attended
by every member. The resolution approv-
ing the admission of the lady was sustained
by a number of the most extravagant speech-
es, which were enthusiastically cheered. The
vote was finally taken, with what seemed to
be one unanimous yell. ‘Yea!’ When the
negative vote was called, a single voice was
heard uttering a timid ‘No.’ The scene that
followed passed description. A general rush
was made for the corner of the room which
emitted the voice, and the recalcitrant mem-
ber was only too glad to acknowledge his
error and record his vote in the affirmative.”
	“At a meeting of the entire class of Gen-
eva Medical College, held this day, Oct. 20,
1847, the following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted;
	1. Resolved that one of the radical prin-

[Column 3]
ciples of a Republican Government is the
universal education of both sexes; that to
every branch of scientific education the door
should be open equally for all; that the ap-
plication of Elizabeth Blackwell to become
a member of our class, meets our entire ap-
probation; and in extending our unanimous
invitation we pledge ourselvos that no con-
duct of ours shall cause her to regret her at-
tendance at this institution.”
	“Two weeks or more elapsed, and as the
lady student did not appear, the incident of
her application was quite forgotten, and the
class continued in its riotous career. One
morning, all unexpectedly, a lady entered
the lecture room with the professor. She
was quite small of stature, plainly dressed,
appeared diffident and retiring, but had a
firm and determined expression of face.
Her entrance into the Bedlam of confusion
acted like magic upon every student. Each
hurriedly sought his seat, and the most ab-
solute silence prevailed. For the first time,
a lecture was given without the slightest
interruption. The sudden transformation
of this class from a band of lawless desper-
adoes to gentlemen, by the mere presence
of a lady, proved to be permanent in its ef-
fects. A more orderly class of medical
students was never seen than this, and it
continued to be to the end of the term.”
	She soon won the esteem of students and
professors, but she was ostracised by Geneva
society. A doctor’s wife at her boarding
house refused to speak to her, Women
passing her on the streets held their skirts
aside.
	The press commented humorously on the
phenomenon of a girl studying medicine.
The Baltimore Sun remarked that she should
confine her practice to diseases of the heart.
The Boston M[-]dical Journa[-] said: “She is a
pretty little specimen of the feminine gen-
der, reporting her age as 26. She comes
into the class with great composure, takes
off her bonnet and puts it under the seat,
exposing a fine phrenology- The effect on
the class is good, and great decorum is ob-
served while she is present.”
	During the summer vacation she studied
in the women’s department of the great
Blockley Almshouse in Philadelphia. The
head physlcian, Dr. Benedict, showed her
much good will, but the young resident
physicians were unfriendly, and when she
walked into any ward they walked out,
They even ceased to write the diagnosis and
treatment of the patient on the card at the
head of each bed, as had been the custom,
so she was thrown wholly on her own re-
sources. But she managed to learn a great
deal.
	To her anxious mother she wrote: "Do
not fear for me. I live simply, do my duty,
trust in God, and mock at the devil.”
	At the almshouse the problems connected
with the social evil were for the first time
brought strongly to her attention. She
wrote to her sister: “I do not know if I have
ever told you how deep this matter of licen-
tiousness has gradually sunk into my soul,
and that the determination to wage a war
ef extermination with it strengthens con-
tinually, and the hope of gaining power and
experieuce to do it worthily is one of my
strongest supports in action. So help me
God, I will not be blind, indifferent or stupid
in relation to this matter, as are most women.
The world can never be redeemed till this
central relation of life is placed on a truer
footing.” Elizabeth graduated at the head
of her class.—Boston Woman's Journal,


