[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF SISTER M. ISABELLA
			HORNE.
	Having been requested by the late Apos-
tle Abraham Owen Woodruff, some months
prior to his death, to leave my personal
testimony io my children concerning the
life, character, labors and mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the divin-
ity of the covenant of plural marriage. I
cheerfully comply as follows:

[Column 2]
I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in
the fall of 1837, at my home in the town of
Scarborough, Canada West.
	When I first shook hands with him I was
thrilled through and through, and I knew
that he was a Prophet of God, aud that tes-
timony has never left me, but is still strong
within me, and has been a monitor, to me,
so that I can now bear a fnithful testimony
to the divinity of the mission of that great
man of God.
	During the three days’ series of meetings,
held in a new barn which your father had
built, the Prophet made his home with us.
The use of this barn became a necessity,
because the Methodists, who were bitterly
opposed to us, refused to let their churches
to the Prophet and Saints.
	As an example of Brother Joseph’s hu-
mility as well as his respect for authority, I
mention the following: As soon as he reached
Toronto. Canada, he inquired who the pre-
siding officer was. On learning that it was
the late President John Taylor, the Prophet
said, “Send for him, as I desire to hold a
meeting with the people.” When President
Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, “Broth-
er Taylor, I am the Prophet Joseph. I want
you to call a meeting, as I would like to"
talk to the Saints.”
	While in Canada he visited all the branch-
es of the Church, and gave the Saints in-
structions on the organization and order of
the priesthood, respect for proper authority,
corrected some of the mis-translations of
the Bible, and took pleasure in answering
questions pertaining to the gospel and the
organization of the Church. Brother and
Sister Taylor, your father and I enjoyed the 
privilege of accompanying the Prophet on
these visits.
	On one occasion, while eating dinner at
the residence of Brother John Scott, the
Prophet jocularly said to me, “Sister Horne,
you are literally fulfilling scripture, aren’t
you?” ‘‘How is that, Brother Joseph?’’ I
asked. “You are bearing the Homes of
Joseph to push the people together,” he re-
plied. This created mueh laughter among
the guests,
	During the year following the Prophet’s
visit to Canada, your father and I removed
to the United States, and finally settled in
Quincy, Illinois.
	In compliance with a revelation from the
Lord commanding him to lay our grievances
before the Judges, Governors, and even the
President of the United States, the Prophet
Joseph in company with a number of the
brethren, came to Quincy, and the Prophet
laid the condition of the affairs of the Church
before Governor Carlin.
	On his return from his visit to Governor
Carlin, the Prophet sent the brethren ahead
on their return trip, telling them he would
follow later. When he reached Lima, where
they intended to remain over night, he found
officers of the law awaiting him. They ar-
rested him and brought him back to Quincy.
This was Friday Evening. About noon the
next day, the Prophet came to our house and
said, “Siser Horne, the Spirit always draws
me to your home.”
	“Brother Joseph,” I said,“you are always
welcome. But how is it you are here when I
thought you were almost home?”
	“Haven’t you heard that I have been in
court all morning?” he asked. 
	I replied that I had not.
“Well, I have,” he said, “I told the offi-
cers that I would be forthcoming at any
hour in the morniug they might name, if
they would let me go, so here I am. What


am I to do? They won’t let me have my
trial in Nauvoo, but are going to take me
to Walla Walla. I thought I should be
at home by this time where my wife would
look after my clothing, as it is in need of
attention.
	“I will wash your clothing,” I answered.
	“Indeed, Sister Horne, you do not look
able to do it.”
	I insisted, and he finally consented, as I
told him my Saturday’s work was all done.
I prepared his clothing that afternoon, so
that he was ready for his journey in the
morning.
	Sister Cleveland, who had heard of the
Prophet’s arrest, came to see him, and met
him at the door just as he was leaving. As
she shook hands with him she began speak-
ing in tongues. Brother Joseph listened
until she had finished, then turned to us
and said, “You need have no fears for me;
as Sister Cleveland says I shall have my
trial and be acquitted.”
	He was acquitted, and was received with
great honors on his arrival at his home.
	The last time I shook hands with the
Prophet was at the Mansion Honse, on an
occasion when I had called to see part of
the family.
	I testify that Joseph Smith was the great-
est Prophet that ever lived on this earth,
the Savior only excepted. There was a
personal magnetism about him which drew
all people who became acquainted with
him to him.
	I feel greatly honored when I realize that
I have had the privilege of personally en-
tertaining this great man, of ministering to
his temporal wants, of shaking hands with
him, and listening to his voice. I heard
him relate his first vision, when the Father
and Son appeared to him; also his receiving
the gold plates from the Angel Moroni. This
recital was given in compliance with a
special request of a few particular friends
in the home of Sister Walton, whose house
was ever open to the Saints. While he was
relating the circumstances the Prophet’s
countenance lightened up, and so wonder-
ful a power accompanied his words that
everybody who heard them felt his influence
and power, and none could doubt the truth
of his narration. I know that he was true
to his trust, and that the principles he ad-
vanced and taught are true.
	I solemnly testify that I know that the
principle of plural marriage is true; that it
came direct from God. I have had evidence
of its truthfulness, and have lived in it for
nearly fifty years. I counsel all my poster-
ity to avoid condemning or making light of
this sacred principle.


