[Column 1]
	Sisters, our officers and the General Board
do appreciate your labors, your indefatigable
work, your generous treatment to us in all
the stakes of Zion, yes, throughout the world!
	Our work for others is what develops
character, ennobles life, strengthens man
and womanhood, cultivates friendship,
unites families and makes good citizens.
	There are rights which belong to guests in
the home also host and hostess and hospi-
tality considers and respects these. In a
well ordered home and when ’tis possible,
there are provisions made for a guest cham-
ber, it should be supplied with the necessary
furniture and furnishings but not the private
necessities, these, such as night robes, dress-
ing sacks, combs, brushes, towels, toilet
soap, pins, etc., every lady is supposed to
carry in her suit case as indispensable arti-
cles, however, if through accident or forget-
fulness on our part, these are, or have to be
supplied by the hostess, they should be
used with care and left in good condition.
	When one enters a home ’tis the duty of
the guest to ascertain the time for the ser-
vice of every meal, and she should make it
her duty to be present on time, to keep a
dinner waiting unless for an excellent rea-
son, is almost unpardonable. Every well
bred woman takes good care of her bed and
every article in the room, if the hostess
has her own work to do, the guest should
attend to her private apartment. If we are
going to visit a friend or even a relative ’tis
our duty to write and ask if it will be con-
venient for them to receive us, and we
should also state the time we expect to re-
main, on returning write and thank our
hostess for the pleasant stay enjoyed at her
house. Presents should be recognized, if
accepted in the same way
	Under the head of hospitality we group
respectability, for no family with dignity
and an understanding rightly balanced can
possibly lack this qualification. In our im-
mediate home circle, we should always re-
spect the privacy, the feelings of every
member, as well as those of visitors, bring-
ing congenial persons together when possi-
ble Never allow sacred things or subjects
discussed or spoken lighty of, reverence age,
and teach our young people to respect gray
hairs, set an example of kind courtesy and
keep our promises to our children and live
within our means. Make our personal ap-
pearance and homes attractive, gain the
confidence of each member therein. Allow
our young people every proper privilege,
give hospitality to their friends, invite good,
pure, honorable young men and women to
partake of that, influence and we will soon
have fewer subjects for reform schools, and
many more white souls in the walks of use-
ful ambition and respectable citizenship.
	Sisters, we were organized to be the
saviors of souls as well as to look after the
poor, the needy, the sick and sorrowful, to
minister to the dying and lay out the dead.
	We stand as the mothers of all other sis-
ter associations in our Church, organized
sixty-eight years ago by our greatly beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, he who suffered per-
secution, imprisonment, yes, martyrdom
that the Gospel of our Savior Jesus Christ
might be re-established never more to be
thrown down! Do we fully appreciate this
fact, do we realize the opportunities we to-
day enjoy? Are we loyal to this cause and
to each other? Does our hospitality have
that connected circumference that it should
have? Are we the model wives, mothers
and friends that our light and knowledge
guarantee? Do we treat our husbands with

[Column 2]
the love and respect which is their due? Are
we the guardians in spirit and discipline to
our children what we should be at all times?
Are we just benefactors to the girls we em-
ploy in our homes? Are we in religious,
domestic and social life the representative
women our credentials warrant?
	If we are not, let us eradicate every selfish
thought, study to improve by inculcating
every true and worthy motive, ask for in-
spiration to lead and direct our every act,
our Father is merciful and He will assist us.
	Let us study the needs and best methods
to assist the poor, teach them to be self-
supporting. Visit the aged, the old and
new members in the wards, the late con-
verts from foreign countries, be kind and
considerate of their feelings, let them know
we are their friends, also, the widow and
orphans.
	God is our Father and He will hold us ac-
countable, if one of His children is through
neglect or our folly lost by the way. We
have the Gospel to direct us, as the chil-
dren of ancient Israel had Moses to lead
them.
	Sisters, we are blessed above many wo-
men, we have advantages, unlimited privi-
leges, few of the women in the world today
possess therefore, our hospitality should
encompass the universe, for it will eventu-
ally aid in reaching the eternity, uniting all
factions, creeds, nations, and people for
’twill be everlasting.
	May our Heavenly Parent grant us the
power to understand our whole duty, and
that we may have strength to do it is my
earnest and sincere prayer.
