standard of hospitality.
	Our Americans since Colonial days and
their first President, George Washington was
host down to the most obscure citizen have
been noted for their cordiality to foreigners,
as well as their own subjects. The generals
of the Revolution, were renowned for their
great hospitality from the beginning to the
close of the seven years war.
	One instance that of Francis Marion
the great South Carolinian, while leading
his brave, but half starved and scantily
clothed army through the swamps and
mountain passes of the south was visited by
a young British officer to whom he gave the
best entertainment his larder afforded, al-
though it was only roasted potatoes served
on pine bark plates, and cold water in rusty
tin cups. History tells us this same young
English officer gave up his commission on
reaching the British headquarters and on
meeting Lord General Howe, saying to him,
“We can never conquer an army of soldiers
and men with commanders like General
Francis Marion!
	Our ambassadors of the diplomatic corps,
since the days of Benjamin Franklin, John
Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and
John Adams have been liberal entertainers
abroad, as well as at home. And no coun-
try has given the world more courtly, more
beautiful types of characters as hostesses, of
cultured womanliness than Martha Custis
Washington, and the uncrowned queens of
America. Abigail Adams and Dolly Madi-
son, and in our own day Julia Dent Grant 
and Frances Folsom Cleveland.
	True hospitality is inborn, it comes spon-
taneous, and is prompted by a desire to
please, comfort and give happiness to oth-
ers.
	Our conference visitors should always re-
ceive kind, courteous hospitality from us,
and on the other hand, be considerate in our
homes and endeavor to conform to the rules
therein. For sisters, we have many obliga-

[Column 3]
tions, many domestic conditions to meet
that you in your country homes know not 
of. Our lives are not one sided; we have 
many phases in them. It is not only the
many conferences, but missionaries, going
to and from their various fields of labor,
temple workers, students attending state 
and Church schools, friends, yes, and
strangers going into and coming from the
city hospitals, persons attending conven-
tions of agriculture, stock raising, mining
and manufacturing, with the tourists who
frequent our city. Educational and legis-
lative assemblies in connection with re-
ligious, historical, patriotic, social and po-
litical meetings to attend, all of which
directly or indirectly draw on the time,
brain power and helpfulness of the city
mothers, more or less.
	Our intercourse with our sisters from every
direction, should be harmonious, there
should be a perfect understanding as to
business methods, and religious principles.
Love, respect and right hospitality will
cement and make stronger our influence.
	We as Relief Society workers can fully
testify to the correctness of this. Now
there are different grades of hospitality, but
the one we most admire is that which ema-
nates from genuine goodness of heart. This
we find when traveling from northern Cana-
da to southern Me[-]ico, from western Ore-
gon through Idaho, Utah, Wyoming and
Colorado, in fact in every place where a
branch of our Relief Society is found, and
where we missionaries visit. This often en-
tails much sacrifice and privation on the
part of our hostess, our entertainers; yet
they are gracious and courteous to us, they
have and are the good Samaritans in very
deed! for like the pioneer women in all
countries they are ready to divide or even
give the whole to the “stranger within their
gates.”
	Hospitality goes hand in hand with chari-
ty, ’tis ever thoughtful of the needs and de-
sires of others. ’Tis a proverbial saying
that the Relief Society in each city is the
emporium of hospitable consideration.
	Our homes are the first gardens in which
to cultivate this beautiful flower, for its
branches will run over its walls. ’Tis the
wives, mothers and daughters who give the
air of cultnre, beauty and suitability to the
home, fathers or brothers usually provide
the surroundings, the habitation, but they
can never give the interior what we find it,
without the intuition of woman’s gentler
hand.
	’Tis not in costly dwelling or magnificent
mansion, neither at the table where great
display of variety and luxury abound, where
the most perfect hospitality is to be found;
instead as we missionaries can tell you,
often in remote towns and small villages,
where the sweet-faced Relief sisters have
gathered to meet us, either in their Presi-
dent’s or some one of the modest homes, we
have found a hearty welcome, a generous
hospitality far surpassing any ostentatious
reception given by wealth or magnificence.
We knew we felt their true womanhood, their 
sincerity and that Christ-like spirit that
God’s influence in their homes insures.


