[Column 1]
FAREWELL ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY. 
	The time has arrived when I must leave
the shores of good old England and return
to the land of Zion. My associations with
the sisters have been most pleasant and
never to be forgotten. I thank our heavenly
Father for the success attending the organi-
zation of the sisters into societies after the
pattern set by our beloved prophet Joseph
Smith. His inspired words at several meet-
ings of the first organization, I look upon as
of the greatest value and importance. They
have to be read and re-read to perceive
their deep meaning. There have been forty-
six societies organized and four more are
ready at this time to be organized, in the
British mission. There were but three so-
cieties when I arrived in England. Over
six hundred women have enrolled their
names as workers in this great cause of re-
lief to the poor, sick and afflicted, and in a
bond of mutual improvement.
	Let each sister remember that she has an
unfailing friend and adviser in her Heaven-
ly Father who is ever near and whose ear is
always open to hear the prayers of all who
who ask in faith; also we have the presence
of the Priesthood to advice and consult with
on all matters of doubt, and we should abide
their decisions. We must avoid all schisms
and everything that may lead to division or
dissatisfaction. Union, love, harmony and
goodwill to each other are the watchwords
of our societies. Loyalty to the officers ap-
pointed by the Priesthood is a sacred duty,
and we should give them our faith and pray-
ers and support, The Lord can prepare the
weakest who works by faith and in humility
to fill any position to which she may be call-
ed.
	I advise you not to take pride in hoard-
ing a large sum in the treasury, but rather
to look about and see where good can be
done, and some one helped and comforted.
Each society should arrange its work as best
suited to the needs of the locality, and strive
to always have work or material on hand
for willing hands to fashion into useful gar-
ments or fancy articles for sale at bazaars
or socials.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith said we should
gain wisdom from good books. These should
be selected so as to be interesting as well

[Column 2]
as instructive. Do not fail to have testi-
mony meetings at least once a month, and
gently urge the timid to rise and bear their
testimony.
	Just a word to societies just organized.
Conduct your meetings with singing and
prayer, the president or other sister in charge
giving out the hymns. After roll call, the
minutes are read by the secretary, correc-
tions are called for by the president and
noted by the secretary, after which they are
accepted by vote. They are then recorded
by the secretary, and the society should
purchase a good sized book to contain the
records, as they are often very valuable for
future reference. All money collected must
be cared for by the treasurer, as she is res-
ponsible for it. She should record all re-
ceipts and disbursements so that she can
make her books balance and show how
much money has been received and how
much disbursed, and what is on hand. If
the president and counselors see the necess-
ity of using, at once, money coming into
their hands, they should let the treasurer
have the record of amount received and
disbursed. The president is not to conduct
the affairs of the society without advising
with her counselors, ag a rule, but in
emergencies she can decide herself. A
small sum such as a penny or more should
be given at each meeting by each member
able to do so, but the poorest is just as val-
ued a member as anyone. Make it a matter
of duty, a pleasant one, too, to attend the
meetings, and go with full expectation of
bringing home at least one good helpful
thought.
	We should all act as missionaries to
spread the light of the gospel that we our-
selves have obtained, and will it not be
both interesting and instructive to take up
the principles one by one at a time for
study? The more we investigate and med-
itate on them the more light we gain and
faith in their efficacy and truth. These
principles should be so impressed on our
children that they will almost count the
days when they will be eight years old and
can be baptized. It is now decided that
children after becoming eight years old and
not baptized must at nine years be denied
the Sacrament. It seems cruel and very
remiss in their duty of parents not to see to
it that the children are not deprived of that
blessing. Teach the girls and boys too,
not to be boisterous or forward in manners
nor given to loud laughter when together in
socials or after meetings. The Lord is
pleased with cheerfulness and harmless fun,
but he says that much laughter is sin. We
can be happy and have the best of times
without excess of any kind. Mothers, re-
member this and impress it upon the chil-
dren.
	Let us strive to overcome the small errors
of life, and soon we will gain strength to
grapple with the larger ones. Mothers, be
watchful of your girls and boys, and give
proper instructions according to their years
and development. Every girl should be
taught to sew and to cook and to keep a
clean and even an artistic home, and the
boys to do their share in keeping order and
comfort in the house. Mr. Louis Potter, an
eminent portrait painter, after spending
some time in Salt Lake City, said, “The
young girl who does not know how to make
her owu clothes and how to conduct a house-
hold on right lines, and also see about the
care of children is not truly a Mormon
girl.” Every girl who has the honor of be-
ing a Latter-day Saint should be an exam-

[Column 3]
ple in deportment and neatness of appear-
ance.
	I must now say farewell. I shall take
the names of the officers of the Relief So-
cieties home with me, and will be pleased
to hear occasionally of your success. I
shall watch the “Star” with interest for
your record. My home address is 1175
Ninth East Street, Salt Lake City. Love
to you all, and again farewell!
