Singing Mothers and Musical Daughters will find all wants gratified here
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
Hectrical Gifts Are Gifts That Please!
Electrical Gifts are practical and inexpensive and are daily reminders of Christmas thoughtBusiness Training ful 5
See Your Dealer or L. D. S. Business College
Utah Power & Light Co. 70 North Main Salt Lake City
Ask for 'Bulletin of Information"
HERE'S BREAD YOU'LL LIKE With extra benefits
When you buy Fisher's Vitamin D Bread you're sure to be satisfied. It's baked to perfection, and it contains vitamin D?the vitamin so essential for good teeth and strong bones!
A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine; Enjoy Cheap Electricity
Character Education Personal Development
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12
Contents
Special Features Frontispiece—Portrait of Winter Vesta P. Crawford 804
Are You Living Abundantly? Zina Y. C, Brown 805
Jennie Brimhall Knight President Louise Y. Robison 808
Long Live Your Poinsettia Dorothy Nell Mair 820
ACTUAL 864
Fiction TOWN'S Last Gun Lella Marler Hoggan 811
A Song In The Cabin Mary Hale Woolsey 821
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 2) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 833
General Features ECHOES Annie Wells Cannon 829
The Relief Society And The Welfare Plan Eva W. Darger 827
Editorial: What Does Christmas Mean To You? 830
Items of Interest: Notes From the Field 832
Attention: Literary Class Leaders 832
Pan-American Good Will Tour 832
New BOOKS 832
Mormon Handicraft—Highlights Nellie O. Parker 839
Music Department: Uses of the Left Hand in Conducting Wade N Stephens 840
Emotional Content of Vocal Music 841
Lessons Theology—Paul the Missionary 842
Messages to the Home—Giving 845
Literature—"Les Miserables" 846
Social Service—Psychology of Personal Efficiency 851
Family Relationships—My Parents Do Not Know Me 856
Mission—Organization of the Church 861
Poetry Portrait of Winter Vesta P. Crawford 804
CORSAGE Beatrice Rordame Parsons 810
Christmas Fires Evelyn Wooster Viner 819
A SONG Sylvia Probst 828
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.


Their old, familiar carols play, And wild and sweet The songs of peace on earth good-will to men! Twould be unafraid and see each day An interval of time as new and white As this high hill where once the brown leaves lay And waited for the windy storm and night. The beauty of the earth can never cease, And hills are loveliest in winter peace! —Vesta P. Crawford. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 Are You Living Abundantly? By Zina Y. C. Brown Christ came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. EVERY man's goal is happiness, and the Golden Rule is the best recipe for happiness ever given to man. This recipe has two ingredients—love and service. Christ told of the first when he gave the two great commandments: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind," and "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Love is the motivating power that impels us to unselfish service. Service is the way that leads to fulfillment and joy. And again we hear the Master's voice in answer to the query, "Who is greatest among us?" —'He that is servant of all." In His life we have the exemplification of these truths. His great and perfect love was shown by His glorious and selfless service to us, His children, both in His life and in His death. How can we walk in His steps, we who are mortal? How can we gain that fullness of life and go on to life eternal? Let me tell you a story of one who greatly loved her fellow-- men, and whose whole life was dedicated to serving them. From this story may you be given fresh impetus to serve and more perfect faith to accept His decrees. Come with me into a tiny hamlet beyond the northern borders of the United States. The nearest town and railway are sixty miles distant, the only neighbors a few Northwest Mounted Police and the friendly Redskins. After six months of living in a tent and wagon-box, our pioneer gayly moved into her new three-roomed log cabin. Here, a few months later, her baby was born without attendance of doctor or trained nurse. Though faced with the characteristic hardships of pioneer life, she did all she could to bring comfort and cheer into the lives of the little band of pioneers who had settled here in response to the call of their leader. She was nurse, doctor and the dispenser of medicines as well; few knew she paid for these herself. How many lives she ushered into this world and how many layettes she supplied I know not. Nor do I know how many she helped to prepare for burial after keeping vigil with those bereaved in their time of near despair, supporting them with the buoyancy of her faith. Did not the weary traveler hitch his horses to the gate post without need of formal welcome? Here he freely stayed for one or many nights. Some stayed on indefinitely, and 806 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many ailing and disheartened were nursed back to health and new hope under her roof. I have vivid recollections of her selfless services to the youth of the now growing community. The log house soon assumed the dignity of a five-roomed dwelling, all white without and glowing within. The whole place radiated her cheerful personality, and its quaint beauty was literally the workmanship of her own hands. 'Pictures of long summer evenings come flooding back to me: I can see that little cottage as the magnet that drew everyone to her home. The ornate, hanging lamp sends its mellow rays through the wide-open door, and friends are trooping down the path between the wild-rose hedge that borders the dear old-fashioned flower gardens. All are greeted with a glowing smile and warm handclasp. Soon voices rise in sweet old songs. The sweet tones of the old reed organ are blended with happy voices of youth, the prattle of little children, and the low tones of those older grown. Music, readings and games are interrupted only by the passing of good homemade ice cream and cake. All present contribute to the evening's wholesome fun. The gay laughter and witty repartee give evidence of glad hearts in real accord. These parties were like talent contests of the present. For latent tal-' ent was discovered and encouraged. Out of this talent grew glee clubs, bands, and dramatic groups. Will anything ever equal in thrills and excitement the "home dramatics"! No unlettered youth ever had a better coach than was she. I can still see her plodding through the snow to attend rehearsals. The first performance saw her house practically stripped of all portable furnishings; the old dining table was piled high with costumes which she had designed and helped to make from gay "nothings". Bands of fleecy cotton marked with charcoal made elegant ermine, and the brass top from the hanging lamp crowned many a stage monarch of that long ago. A heavenly peace steals into my heart as I recall the cottage and special meetings held in her hallowed parlor. This room served as bedroom, too. The people were seated on the bed, elegant in its silk and wool "log-cabin" cover, and on all the available chairs; even the kitchen wash-bench, covered for such occasions, was used as a seat. The hymns, the "gifts of-the spirit" and the words of deep conviction of the Gospel's truth stirred young hearts to the depths. On one such occasion the presence of a Heavenly Choir was felt and gave to us a glimpse of the joy that comes to those who are truly in the Master's service. How she found time for the love and devotion that she lavished on her own family is still a mystery to me. Her loyal and constant support of her husband in his responsible position, her tender care of him in the home and the honor shown him as the head of that home were never failing. She heard her children's prayers and tucked them in at night. Bedtime hour was the story hour; when there was company present, she excused herself that she might not miss this ritual with her own. Marvelous these stories were, with knights in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 807 armor riding through them and princesses galore. The tales she spun from her own fertile brain were best loved of all. The latter always left her children armed for doing noble deeds. The long, cold winters were never dreary, for there were always good books—a bookcase filled with volumes chosen by her for her children and their friends. Even the case was made by her from packing boxes and stained, varnished and hung with crimson curtains. Her children and their friends sat with her near the parlor stove while she read from Dickens or Alcott or showed them copies of famous paintings. She loved the beautiful in all its forms. As she sat in the old buggy by her husband's side as the family jogged home from a meeting just attended, she would often touch his arm and say, "Look, Papa, the flowers." 'That was always a signal for him to draw rein and let the children alight. Each would come back soon with arms laden with wild flowers rich in color and perfume. Happy days! Hours and years were made sweet with the gifts unconsciously given by one who lived abundantly. She had a fullness of life. I know that she had. Her humble board was graced by the noble of the earth— the honored and loved leaders of the Church and many of the great of her adopted country who departed with a changed attitude toward the Church and its people. The humblest were as welcome as the socalled great and were as graciously received. As her life's pattern wove itself to completion, it was beautiful to see. 'To the last, her love for all of God's children, both living and dead, filled her days with sweetness and with love returned. I think the angels must have marveled at the throngs who came to meet her at that Opened Door as she passed to Life Eternal. Greatly blessed in her gift of uniting everyone in the spirit of brotherhood, which is such an important phase of the Gospel of Christ, the humble and the great of two great nations mourned her passing—the passing of a friend. She, unconsciously great, had gained her life by losing it in loving service to mankind. Her life gives increased courage and faith and is an added proof that circumstance and station are no bar to living abundantly. Oh, dear mothers, near and far, are we letting escape great opportunities by which we may serve Him? Are our days warped and unlighted by waste of time and lack of vision, or is each day filled with loving service and lofty thoughts? We are living in the "fullness of times", born with an heritage beyond price. We can pay for this only in the coin of love. This increases as it is given and returns a thousand-fold to bless our years. Let us catch and retain this true Christmas spirit — the Christ-like love—that it may fill our hearts now and throughout all our days. We shall then live abundantly. Jennie Brimhall Knight By President Louise Y. Robison COUNTING life in events, rather than in years, it seems that I have always known Jennie Brimhall Knight; yet, I had not met her before I voted to sustain her, April 1, 1921, as First Counselor to Clarissa S. Williams, General President of the Relief Society. That was a memorable experience —meeting two of the most lovable women I have ever known and for the first time in my life going to the office of the First Presidency. President Grant greeted us cordially. He had been acquainted with President Williams since early childhood; he knew Mrs. Knight and had high regard for her father's family as well as for her husband and his family, but for a few moments he could not place me. Those were embarrassing moments until he recalled my parents, my husband and his family; he most graciously traced genealogy far and wide and put me at ease by laughingly saying we were relatives. It was in that moment of embarrassment that Mrs. Knight looked at me with those understanding, expressive eyes, and I felt secure and at peace—she was my friend. This friendship has grown more precious with the years, for she has that rare quality of friendship which is vitalized by doing and growing, and she has the ability to inspire her friends to improve with her. As First Counselor to Mrs. Williams during the seven and a half years of her presidency, Mrs. Knight was loyal, competent and dependable. Regular Executive and Board meetings were held each week, with often an extra session, but the weather was never too cold to keep her from coming all the way from Provo to be in attendance. Her sound judgment, her sympathetic understanding of human needs and her untiring devotion to Relief Society was a great strength to President Williams who loved her dearly. 'The bond of affection between these two great women was beautiful to see. President Williams' voice was a real caress when she spoke the name "Jennie". In describing success, someone has said: "If the passing years have left you in their flight, new stores of wisdom, kindliness, tolerance, patience—that is success." Jennie B. Knight has all these virtues—and more. She has added love and in return is loved by all who have been privileged to know her. She has faith and a sincere testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her faith has strengthened the testimony of others. Few women have had the wide opportunity for service which Mrs. Knight has had, and few have been so well prepared for that service. Jennie Brimhall and Inez Knight were the first lady missionaries, called and sent as such, to a foreign country. In addition to this experience, Mrs. Knight has visited most of the stakes and many wards and missions as General Board officer and member. It is a pleasure to visit a Relief Society after she has held a conference or convention. People invariably speak lovingly of her wis- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 809 JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT dom, her practical advice and her ability to adjust to any situation. Mrs. Knight graduated from the Brigham Young University with high honors. Later, she taught in the Training School of her beloved B. Y. U. And also served as Dean of Women. She is a life member of the National Council of Women. A few of the outstanding activities which have claimed her attention are: Stake 810 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Taylor Stake; Stake President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Utah Stake; Relief Society Board Member, Utah Stake; Governor Bamberger's representative at a peace conference in Philadelphia; Vice President State Council of Defense, Woman's Division, and a representative of the Council in Washington, D. C.; representative of the Relief Society at conventions of the National Council of Women upon several occasions, and as a delegate to the Quinquennial in Washington, D. C. She became acquainted with many noted foreign women. She was also a delegate to National Conferences of Social Workers of the United States. _ With all of these interests—and many more—Jennie B. Knight is a model homemaker, an ideal wife and mother, an hospitable hostess and a trusted friend. On January 18, 1899, Jennie Brimhall was married to Jesse William Knight who has whole-heartedly assisted his wife in all of her activities. Their two sons, Richard and Phillip, are married, and three adorable grandchildren now claim loving attention. One wonders how a person can have so many virtues and abilities, how being gracious and doing right come, apparently, so easy. Back of most people with these great gifts are fine, wise parents. Jennie Brimhall was very fortunate in being born into the home of Dr. George H. Brimhall and Alsina E. Wilkins Brimhall. Many instances of character training in Jennie's young life are delightfully told by Inez Knight Allen in a tribute to "Jennie B." in the November, 1928 issue of the Relief Society Magazine. After eighteen years of loyal, devoted service to Relief Society as First Counselor to President Williams and member of the General Board of Relief Society, Mrs. Knight has asked for her release. President Grant approves of her request, and each member of the General Board reluctantly acquiesce. The name of Jennie Brimhall Knight will be lovingly remembered in thousands of homes of Relief Society women. Their good wishes and their earnest prayers for her happiness will ever follow her. She has proven the Prophet Micah's interpretation of real service: "Only to do justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." RS CORSAGE Fair Orchid, in your lavender and lace, Born of time, and destined for a space To rest upon her shoulder, In all grace, I send you now To her I love, And beg you, with your sweetness trace The pattern of my love across her shining face. —Beatrice Rordame Parsons. The Last Line By Lella Marler Hoggan MARTHA drew a hairpin from the soft graying knot of hair at the nape of her neck and tipped open the thin envelope that the postman had delivered. She inspected its contents carefully. "Merciful heavens!" she gasped, 'It can't be so. There must be some mistake." Her fingers trembled as she removed her glasses, wiped them on the hem of her crisp apron, and again examined the letter. It was her name all right and the proper address. It seemed impossible, but there it was in plain words that artyone could read. The clock on the mantel struck ten. The autumn sunshine was streaming across her kitchen table. The air was heavy with the odor of sweet spices from the kettle of apple butter simmering on the stove. Yes, her senses confirmed the fact that she was awake and in her right mind. She really had won one hundred dollars for the last line of a limerick. She could hardly wait to tell the good news to some one. But Sam had gone to the mountains hunting with some of his friends and would not be back for another week, and their daughter and three sons all lived in distant towns. It would not be exactly kind to be babbling of her prosperity to her neighbors. Widow Johnson never had any money for luxuries. And sour old Lem Flinders, the war veteran, did not want to hear of anyone's good fortune while he was hobbling about in penury waiting for the adjustment on his lapsed life insurance. No, she would wait until Sam got back to break the glad news. So she put the check in her gray silk purse and slipped it under Sam's pillow on their bed. Several times during the day she went in and opened the purse to make sure the check was still there. One hundred dollars was a lot of money to spend just as one pleased. What would she do with it? All through the years she had treasured in her heart unfinished dreams and plans that for lack of a few dollars were still waiting to be completed. What a thrilling experience it would be to bring about a realization of some of these longhoped-for things. DURING the next few days Martha spent hours planning, figuring, measuring. She made a trip to town where she priced materials, matched colors, and wrote down lists of suggestive purchases. Then one morning just as she opened her eyes, it came to her like a flash. Why hadn't she thought of it long ago? Why not use the money for Christmas? One hundred dollars for Christmas! It would be magic. It would be more than magic. Why it would be the dream of a lifetime come true. Her thoughts ran riot. 'There was Sam and the children and grandchildren and friends to be made glad. Oh it would be a glorious adventure, nothing less. Out of all her planning, however, she did not make a single purchase. And when Sam reached home at the end of the week she had not even 812 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cashed the check. Sam was tired, dusty and bewhiskered, and his usual even temper was somewhat ruffled. "Cold as blazes in the mountains," he growled, "and not even so much as a deer track in sight." But oh, it was good to have him home again, thought Martha. He soon had his chores finished and was shaved, bathed and into clean clothes. The hot appetizing meal was ready for the table, and he noticed that his plate was turned down. 'Tired as he was, his curiosity was at once aroused. It had been a family custom throughout the years to save the little happy surprises for meal time. It might be a gift or a joke or some cheerful message that was concealed under one or more of the plates, but no one lifted his plate until after grace was said. And so after they had offered thanks for the food, Sam's twinkling eyes met Martha's animated gaze across the steaming food. With his hand on his plate he waited. "What'll you bet I can't guess the first time?" he bantered. "IT don't gamble," her face was beaming, "but you'll not guess this time, not even in a dozen guesses." "Dried venison," was Sam's hazard. "It must be dried venison considerin' the luck I had on the huntin'" trip." He lifted his plate, and the letter addressed to Martha was revealed. He held it up questioningly. "Read it," she urged. "A hundred dollars! A hundred dollars!" he kept repeating, after he had read the letter. "Why glory be, Marthy, you've saved the farm!" "What do you mean 'saved the farm'?" "Why the taxes, Marthy, the taxes. 'This will make our fall payment and tide us over till we can sell the hay or the grain." All of the joy went out of Martha's face, just as if an eraser had rubbed off every vestige of gladness. "Oh yes, the taxes... To be sure." Always there was the taxes. Why hadn't she remembered? Without a word she went to the small desk in the living room and endorsed the check and passed it to her grateful husband, but her attempt at cheerfulness during the remainder of the meal was a dismal failure. She was relieved when Sam finished eating and went into the living room to glance through the newspapers that had come while he was away. Being alone would give her a chance to think things over and to adjust her mind to her changed financial situation. Sam, tired from his trip, fell asleep in his chair before he had finished the first paper. Martha aroused him patiently, and without ceremony he undressed and tumbled into bed. He looked so tired and deserving, she observed. Soon his regular heavy breathing echoed through the quiet rooms. WHEN Martha retired, she slept fitfully. Once she awakened with a start and reached for the gray silk purse. Her hand touched Sam's cheek, and then she remembered. She had companioned with the precious check for so many days that it brought an empty feeling to her heart to know that it was gone. It was like losing a friend. She recalled gloomily how time and again in the past they had saved money for some special purpose, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 813 then a crop failure from some cause or another had occurred, and their precious savings had gone to pay the taxes. The hailstorm had taken the grain in the field the same fall they were married, making it impossible for them to go on a honeymoon trip. The money they had saved for the trip had to go for taxes. That was more than forty years ago, and they were still waiting for that honeymoon tour. Not that they needed such a trip, far from it; their marriage had been one long honeymoon. But she could not help recalling that the tax payments had _ caused many a heartache. She tried to put the whole sorry thought of it out of her mind, hut over and over like a rhythmic chant of bitterness and disappointment the words repeated themselves, "a hundred dollars for taxes—the Christmas money for taxes", until finally she could stand it no longer. Slipping out of bed, she tiptoed into the kitchen, put on a robe and some house shoes and walked out on the porch. Everything was so silent as she stood there in the white moonlight and gazed across the broad acres. The fields of stubble and the empty trees told of the garnered harvest. The stack of hay back of the barn, grain in the granary, boxes of red and yellow apples, and long shelves of bottled fruit and vegetables in the cellar, attested the summer's labor and the winter's store. They had spent practically all of their married life here. Sam had helped to build the house, and they had moved in just a few weeks before Diana was born. It seemed only yesterday that they had packed up and left his father and mother at the old ranch house up in the valley. And yet Diana's children were growing up now. Why Bonny Lou, Diana's daughter, was married last year. The greatest joys of their lives centered here. The rooms of the old home were hallowed with a wealth of sacred memories. Every foot of the land bore the marks of Sam's toil-worn hands. The quiet beauty, the soft stillness of the night, soothed and comforted Martha. It brought to her an acute realization of the fact that this farm home was something that money could not buy. No price was too great to save it for themselves and for the ones who would come after them. It was more than a farm—it was a sanctuary. Awed and grateful, she went back to her bed. In the darkness of the quiet room a deep content carried her into untroubled slumber. THE next morning she began all over again to make her plans for Christmas. 'This time she would plan a Christmas without money. She was not going to let a paltry hundred dollars spoil the most blessed day of the whole year. One did not need money to commemorate Christmas—at least not much. She would dip deep into her own life. Surely she had garnered treasures enough to share with others for one year. She would make this one of the most beautiful Christmas seasons they had ever known. Weeks went by, and cold autumn skies were clouded with a flurry of snowflakes as winter made its appearance. Soon the fields were covered with a soft mantle, undulating drifts swung out along the foothills, 814 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the streams were locked in ice. Martha did dip deep, even as she had promised herself. In memory she went back into the years, and out of the hallowed drama of the past she materialized many fleeting memories: Recipes of old favorite home dishes, booklets containing the children's pictures and their funny little sayings and doings, maxims and slogans that had been household jokes during the years, choice poems, bits of humor and philosophy, souvenirs they had loved and treasured. Then there were relics and heirlooms of value and beauty. Why not pass some of them on to the children this year? Sam gave his enthusiastic approval and helped Martha to pack the boxes. They included in each box cartons of home-grown popcorn and dried sweet corn, bottles of crystal clear honey, and bright luscious apples. When they began addressing the boxes and parcels, they were puzzled as to where they should send Bonny Lou's remembrance. "We had better send it with Diana's," was Martha's decision. "I think Bonny Lou and Bob plan on getting home for Christmas." "Well, if they're not already there, they'll never make it for Christmas, unless they go around, and that means an extra hundred miles. No one has tackled the pass since the big storm last week." "Well, let us hope that they're already there." "But if they should be too late to get through the pass, Marthy, don't you suppose Bob would bring Bonny Lou here?" "Yes, I'm sure he would. But Sam, suppose they should get caught in the storm out in the mountains. Why if anything should happen to that darling girl—"' Martha's eyes filled with tears, and she choked up unable to say more. "Nothin's goin' to happen to her, Marthy. The road is not open, so they'll not be startin' through the pass. Don't you worry." "Sometimes I wonder if I don't love that girl too much," and she wiped her eyes gently. "Now Id like you to tell me just how a person would go about it to love an only granddaughter too much." "She's sure got a big place in our hearts, Sam." They decided to send Bonny Lou's parcel with Diana's things. When the boxes were ready, Sam took them to the post office. It brought a-feeling of deep satisfaction to both of them to have everything in the mail a week before Christmas. THE very morning before the eventful day, when Martha came into the kitchen to prepare breakfast, she found that Sam had already set the table, and her plate was turned down. "Now Sam Hanford, what are you up to?" she demanded in assumed earnestness. "Not a thing, Marthy," and Sam's expression became painfully solemn. ' As she came near the table, he hurried to warn her, "Now no fair peekin'; you know we always made the children wait." "Of course I'm not peeking, but I'm sure wondering what prank you're playing on me." "Marthy, I'm surprised!" and the twinkle in Sam's eyes belied his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 815 gravity. "Whoever heard of me playin' a prank on you?" Martha prepared the breakfast in record time. She really was curious to know why Sam had turned her plate down. After the regular devotion was over, she quietly lifted — her plate. "Sam, why Sam, where did this come from?" and she stared in wonder at a stack of crisp ten-dollar bills. She was too surprised to remember to count them until he explained that he was just paying back the loan for the taxes. "You know very well that was not a loan, Sam. The taxes are as much my obligation as yours." "T know, but the sheep man paid me for the use of the field yesterday. And I just said to myself, 'It's a dern poor farm that can't pay its own keep.' So there it is. Besides, we couldn't use your money to pay the taxes with. That's professional money. That's money for literachoor." She wanted to answer Sam's merriment with some joke, but her eyes filled with tears; she did not trust her voice to reply. When Sam had finished eating and had left the room, she carefully folded up the ten ten-dollar bills and put them into the gray silk purse.. It was a strange world, she mused. Here she was with one hundred dollars for Christmas and her gifts already wrapped and mailed. She recalled some of the lean Christmas seasons when the children were home. Oh, what a blessing it would have been to have had the money then. Yet, those lean Christmases were the sweetest ones in her memory, for out of full hearts they had brought into their home the real spirit of the season. It was at one of these times that Sam had said to her, "Never mind, Marthy, if we can't buy presents. Its the gifts of the heart that count, and you've been givin' us them in full measure, all through the year." AS Martha went about her morning's work, the puzzled expression on her face plainly showed that she had a problem to solve. She finally decided that her needy neighbors were her first consideration. So when the noon meal was over, she put on her warm wraps and made her way across the fields to their homes. Alice Johnson came running out to meet her, her face alight with good news. "My, you look happy, Alice." Martha's arm went around the slender girl's shoulders, "You look as if Santa Claus might have. Been here already." "Oh, he has, Mrs. Hanford, he surely has. Mother's check for the turkeys came day before yesterday. We should have had it long ago, only it was delayed in the mail because of the Christmas rush. But it's here now, and we're all so happy we're just dancing for joy." Widow Johnson's face was as animated as Alice's. Christmas preparations were nearly completed. The household was vibrant with a spirit of gladness. When Martha left them a half hour later, her heart was singing, too. She stumbled along the half obliterated path that led to Lem Flinders' cabin. Rapping lightly on his door she waited, expecting to hear a glum call for her to enter. To her surprise, the door swung wide, and 816 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lem, with a beaming countenance, welcomed her warmly. "Well," he announced, when she was seated, "the impossible has at last come to pass. They've looked up my record in Washington and everything's O. K. I'm going to get my insurance. In fact, I've already got some of the money that was past due." "Tm certainly glad to hear the ood news, Lem," and Martha's Fright smile confirmed her pleasure. She rejoiced to note that his face shone with contentment and satisfaction. It was good to know that the old man had at last found peace of mind. It was not far from Lem's cabin to Molly Gregory's little home where Martha found Molly singing lustily as she applied her industrious fingers and a wooden hook to the task of hooking a bright colored Tug. "It's glad I am to be seein' you, Marthy," announced Molly, opening the door wide in welcome. "Such a good fortune has befallen me that I am wantin' that my neighbors should hear of it, but with the paths so deep and slippery and me so uncertain on my feet I dare not venture out to be tellin' them." "I’m sure I’ll be as happy to hear the good news as you will be to tell it," was Martha's assurance. "Your little room is fairly singing with good cheer." "Good cheer it is indeed, Marthy, and no one knows better than you of the braided rugs I've been at this live-long winter. Well, I've sold 'em, and for a handsome price at that. Why I'm that happy that I can't stop singin', J honestly sometimes wonder if it's a dream or if it's reality." MOLLY'S happy laughter was good to hear. It was still ringing in Martha's ears when she reached home. Removing her wraps, she stirred the fire to a bright blaze and sat down in the big easy chair before the hearth. She opened her small gray purse and taking out the roll of new bills smoothed them one by one across her knee. "I had so hoped," she mused, "that they would bring Christmas cheer to some one, but they don't seem to be needed at all." She rolled them up and put them back into the purse. Suddenly the bills in the little gray bag seemed to have lost their value. She laid her purse on the table and reached for her knitting, as Sam sauntered into the room. With his back to the fire, he warmed his hands while his kind eyes looked lovingly across at Martha. "Well, Marthy, Christmas is nearly over." "How do you figure that, Sam, when it doesn't even begin until tomorrow?" "Oh, I mean the makin' ready for it." "Oh, to be sure, and I've enjoyed it this year, too." The resignation in her voice brought a twinkle to Sam's eyes, which was lost to Martha as she plied her needles industriously. "Yes," he mused, "it's comforting to have plenty of money for a day like Christmas." She knew what was coming and did not reply, but her needles clicked faster than ever. "Well, Marthy," and his voice was pathetically serious, "it's a dad- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 817 burned shame to be left with a hundred dollars on your hands and Christmas all but over. But I wouldn't feel too bad about it if I was you. You might be able to buy yourself a new spring outfit." "Yes, you can just see me spending a hundred dollars for a new spring outfit, now can't you, Sam?" "Well, you could do a lot worse." "Yes, and I could do a lot better." "Just what, for instance?" "Well, I haven't decided yet." "Now that's just the trouble, Marthy. That's what comes of getting yourself a pocketful of professional money. Plain folks like you and me shouldn't be turnin' professional at our age. It's not practical. We don't know how to use easy money, then we're left with a lot of it on our hands and nothing to spend it for." "Goodness me, Sam, I wish you'd be quiet." "Quiet? Why it's so still around here now you could hear a pin drop. Come on, let's hang up our stockin's." Martha tossed her work on the table. There was no use trying to knit; she was dropping stitches. "Sam Hanford, aren't you ever going to grow up?" "IT hope not," and his smile met hers. "Seriously, Marthy, I've thought of a way we could spend the hundred dollars." "What way?" There was eagerness in her voice. "We've been waitin' a long time for our honeymoon trip," he took her hand tenderly in both of his, "why can't we take it now on your hundred dollars?" "Where could we go on a hundred dollars?" "Well, with a little I could put with it from the sale of the hay we could go down south, down to the sea. It would be great, Marthy— blue skies and sunny beaches, with the waves rollin' in, and the song of the sea comin' to us out of the white spray. There would be warm breezes and palm trees and roses. Think of it, Marthy, roses in December." "Tam thinking of it, Sam. It had never come to me that we could use the money that way." "Why it's what we've been workin' for and waitin' for these many years. That's what the money must have been saved for." "Well, we'll see. We don't want to make ourselves any promises we'll not be able to keep." A PATH of sunshine lay across the floor as Martha entered her kitchen on Christmas morning. From the shining stove the teakettle hummed gleefully. "Merry Christmas, Marthy!"' Sam called cheerily. "The weather man is sure out in his best bib and tuck this mornin', ain't he?" "He certainly is.' Martha's face shone with a quiet joy, and her voice was tender with emotion. "I wish you a merry Christmas, Sam." "Thanks, Marthy." He reached over and kissed her as he went into the living room with coal and kindling for the fire. She followed him, and while he busied himself at the fireplace, she began looking over the Christmas parcels and cards and letters that she had previously arranged on the big table. There 818 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was a bright array of gay wrappings and happy messages. "There's no card or anything here from Bonny Lou." Martha's voice betrayed her anxiety. "May be in with Diana's parcel; open it, and we'll see." Sam adjusted the fuel in the grate and brushed the dust from his hands. The glowing fire soon lent its cheer to the big room. Hearing some one approach, he opened the door. A telegraph messenger greeted him cheerily. "Sign right here," the boy directed. Sam's fingers trembled as he affixed his signature. To Sam and Martha there was always something ominous about a telegram. But this one was different. A flaming poinsettia and cheery Christmas streamers met their gaze as they scanned the sheet anxiously. "Lovely boy born Christmas Eve stop Mother and baby doing fine stop—" "Hooray for Bonny Lou and Bob! Think of it, Marthy, you're a greatgrandmother," and Sam embraced her and kissed her excitedly. "Hold on a minute, Sam, let me see that telegram." "Well, look at it. It says they're goin' to call him Sam—Samuel Robert Hallaway more'n likely. Now ain't that a high-soundin' name?" and he waltzed Martha around the room. "That's not what I'm thinking of. Look here!" Again they bent over the paper. "It says Hanford Ranch. Sam, they didn't make it through the pass. They're at the ranch." "Yes, they must be at the ranch. They must have phoned that message in from Riley's place. But this says everything's all right." "What in the world will they do at that old ranch house?" Martha's brow was wrinkled with misgiving. "Now don't be runnin' down the ranch house, Marthy. I was born there myself, and it's still the best lookin' house in that neck of the woods." "But it's been empty for months. Unless Mrs. Riley has fixed it up, it's just impossible. 'There's no rugs or curtains or bedding or anything— just the bare furniture." "Well," mused Sam, scratching his chin, "a hundred dollars is a hundred dollars in any man's Janguage. I see your money takin' wings mighty fast, Marthy. Also, I see a certain sunny beach slowly fadin' from view, while the song of the sea is growin' fainter and fainter." "Sam, will you stop your mooning around and help me to get things ready? We're going to Bonny Lou. You know just as well as I do that nothing could drag you away to any warm southern beach while Bonny Lou's up at the ranch house with that new baby." "Very well, what can I do?" "Bring me a basket from the basement, please, and I'll pack the lunch while you get the car ready." "In a few minutes Sam was back with the basket. He had remembered to bring up some large red apples and bottles of cranberries, sweet pickles, and pears. Then he hurried out to the garage. Martha was rushing from kitchen to pantry. She adjusted linen napkins between her best china dinner - plates as she fitted them into one end of the basket. She kept counting the various articles on her fingers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 819 to make sure that nothing was forgotten. "The old jitney's in good shape," Sam announced, as he came back to the kitchen. "If the roads are open, we ought to be able to make it in pretty good time." "If we get started right away, we'll be there in time for dinner with Bob and Bonny Lou, even if she does have to eat in bed propped up with pillows. We're taking the turkey and pudding and everything," Martha informed him. "I can just see how their faces will light up when we come tiptoeing in." "Bonny Lou will likely be in Mother's bedroom," Sam was serious, "and maybe the little feller will be in the old wooden cradle that. Father made for me." "Oh, it is going to be a great trip, Sam, across the foothills and up the valley, with that snow shining all over everything like a million diamonds." Sam sat down before the fire, but he made no reply. "You want to go, don't you, Sam?" 'There was solicitude in Martha's voice. "You haven't heard me say any- -thing about not goin' have you?" "No, but you don't seem very enthusiastic about it." "Who would be? After waitin' for forty years to go on a honeymoon to the sunny south, who would be enthusiastic about a trip back to the old ranch through snow crotch-deep toa tall Injun? I'm askin' you, Marthy, do you call that romance?" "I’ll say I call that romance. I know you don't mean a word you're saying, Sam, but just the same I'd like to remind you that the old ranch is the place where we. First met and where we were married and spent our honeymoon. Besides, Bonny Lou is there. And if there wasn't a stick of furniture in the place it would still be romance, if Bonny Lou was there." Sam chuckled softly. Martha looked up from the lunch basket, suddenly realizing that she was getting sentimental. An understanding smile passed between them. "Don't forget little Sammy," and his voice was as gentle as the softly humming kettle on the stove, "it ain't every couple, Marthy, that can have a bran' new great-grandchild to go to on Christmas mornin'." CHRISTMAS FIRES By Evelyn Wooster Viner When the Yule log on the fire bums With wintry winds outside, It seems an easy thing to say, " Tis well whate'er betide." When wintry winds are in our hearts, The hearth fire but a spark, And Yuletide joy seems far away, Then life indeed is dark. Oh! Let us hold the Christmas cheer All the long year 'round That through the world good will and joy May bountifully abound. Long Live Your Poinsettia By Dorothy Nell Mair THE floral shops are filled at Christmas time with thousands of potted poinsettias that will find their way into just as many homes. Because of the beautiful sentiment each plant expresses, we wish to preserve its loveliness as long as possible. There is something very alluring about the flaming red tongues, the leaves surrounding the inconspicuous flower, that makes us reluctant to see them droop and fall. 'They need not perish too soon. A little proper handling will preserve them for weeks after Christmas Day has faded with the old year. Poinsettias are touchy. Like hollyhocks and poppies, they are almost too perishable to be good cut flowers. When the stems are cut, they bleed freely. In the days before potted plants became popular as gifts and poinsettias were used as cut flowers, the stems were charred or dipped into boiling water to seal the ends and to prevent the milky sap from draining too quickly. They were then placed into deep water of room temperature and allowed to soak for several hours before being arranged into bouquets. An important thing to remember for any cut flowers included in your Christmas bouquet is to have the water in which they are to be placed of room temperature rather than ice cold. Water too cold will chill and shock the flowers. Your potted poinsettias are much more easily taken care of than those "that are cut, but even so, they can still be called temperamental. It is well to remember that they are tropical and semi-tropical shrubs, natives: of Mexico, introduced into the United States in 1828. The actual flower is what appears to be the yellow center, and the red tongues or bracts that surround it are leaves, not petals. These leaves are the most attractive part of the plant and the reason we admire it. In the garden, where the roots have room for expansion, plants grow to a height of fifteen feet and more. The potted shrub is considerably dwarfed. Poinsettia roots rebel immediately at extremes of dryness or moisture; soil should be kept damp but not soggy. Temperature is of vital consideration and should be held at sixty-five or seventy degrees. A slight chill will cause the red bracts and green leaves to fall. If you awaken some morning to find your poinsettia looking sick, it has probably been chilled during the night when the temperature of (Continued on page 876) A Song In The Cabin By Maryhale Woolsey THERE was a streak of gold in the western sky, mirrored thinly in the gray lake across the valley. The clouds overhead hung cold and threatening, lower than an hour ago; against them the rims of the mountains were less sharply defined. It would storm before morning, Libbeth told herself. And it would be snow, if she did not mistake this clean nippy tang of the air. Snow! Winter at hand again! Well, it was nearly December; the fall had been beautiful. Libbeth sighed, thinking of another winter in the cabin—the new house so nearly ready, yet they had to wait! Drawing her dark warm shawl closer about her shoulders, she leaned against the side of the cabin and turned her eyes from the west to the north where, a little higher up the hill slope, the new house stood. It had a good stone foundation, walls of adobe, thick and snug, bright shingled roof, a small porch by the front door and a lean-to entrance at the back. Four big rooms there would be, with space for two more "some day" up under the gables—such a comforting thought after the years in a two-tiny-rooms cabin! Libbeth stretched out her arms, as if the very thought of spaciousness impelled her to reach out and ease-cramped muscles. It had been such a long time in the cabin. So many reverses had come, as if placed in their way to try them further—as if they had not borne trial enough for their devotion to the Gospel, even before coming here. One loss after another, disappointment after ment! It didn't do much good to remind herself that many of the brethren and sisters who were her neighbors had suffered even more. Sister Abbie Hemmer, for instance, who had come in the early fifties, had known many hardships which Libbeth and Arden had not known, coming as they had over a now well established route almost free of such dangers as had confronted the earlier pioneers. No, thinking of that didn't do Libbeth—in this mood—much good. It seemed only to intensify that rebellious questioning within her. Was it really worth the while, the sacrifices, the struggles, the giving up of comforts, pleasantries and niceties of living such as she had formerly known? Back home in Ohio there were still the ease and loveliness she had grown up in... Was it possible that less than seven years ago she had been that happy, carefree girl she now remembered so wistfully? Seven years— an incredibly short time to have contained such an eternity of experiences! Oh, she was tired of toil and anxiety and an unending caravan of deprivations, tired of two small rooms in a cabin; tired of odors of food cooking on a broken stove, smell of wash-suds, fresh milk and new cheese, of ripened fruit demanding attention.... Libbeth caught herself up sharply. She wouldn't think of these things as being always so disagreeable as they had been recently. Ardisappoint- 822 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE den would be deeply grieved if he should learn the things that were in her heart. Arden had no regrets for his sacrifices, and he, too, had given up much. It had seemed little enough, at first—a privilege to give up home, friends, position, even family, for the sake of the Gospel. Of all their intimate circle, they two only had been converted to Mormonism. The sentiment of their community had been bitterly antagonistic. Jervis Mead, Libbeth's father, had tempestuously opposed Libbeth's and Arden's interest in the Mormons: "Tf you join them," he had said, "T'll want never to lay eyes on either of you again. Nor shall your mother, if I can help it..." So it had been. Once, Libbeth believed, her mother had made an effort to see her. Coming home one evening, she thought she detected a faint fragrance in the room, a perfume Alice Mead always wore. Her mother had been there; perhaps she would come again... But she had not come again. Soon thereafter, Arden and Libbeth had come West to the city of the Saints. They would have a new home there, in the thriving new community; they would find opportunities among others who shared the same beliefs, the same ideals. Almost from the first, disappointment had been: their lot. One of their four horses died mysteriously; another Arden had lent to a fellowtraveler who had a similar misfortune. It had been necessary to lighten their load, so they had stored part of their furniture at Fort Laramie. Libbeth's cabinet organ had been among these, and there had never been money to spare to bring it on. She missed the organ particularly; she had loved her music. Would she ever be able to play again, she wondered? Her fingers were growing stiff from lack of practice and from the hardening toil. THE streak of gold was fading fast, the shadows deepening. Her ear caught the sound of wagon wheels approaching. Little Ardena heard them, too, and ran down the hill to meet her father and ride home on top of his load of wood. Libbeth's heart lifted somewhat, as it always did at his coming, as if just his nearness shifted some of her burdens onto his stronger shoulders. She felt almost abused when Arden, after supper, went out with a lantern to hitch up the horses again. "T have to go to town," he said. Shortly, she thought, as if he feared she might ask questions. "I'm... Making home unpleasant for him. If I lose him, too, if his love should grow cold... I could not bear it. And I should deserve it, too, for my moods and discontent. What shall I, what can I, do?" She put the babies to bed, silently. Little Joey was sound asleep in his cradle, and Ardena in her little bed was on the border of slumberland when Arden came home. He drove close to the cabin door, and curious, she opened it... To see him and a man she did not know lifting something tall and heavy from the wagon to the ground. She moved aside as they carried it through the doorway. "Arden! It's not—oh, Arden! The organ!" she cried, and stood, dumb with surprise, while they tugged and pushed and lifted until it stood against the farther wall. The stranger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 823 left, with a nod and smile to Libbeth as he passed her. "Oh, Arden!" Libbeth went over and stood stroking the smooth dark wood of the cabinet. "How — when?" "Your Christmas present, Libbie," Arden said. "It's early, but I was afraid the roads might delay it, later." Ardena had roused and climbed out of bed. In her small long gown she stood wonderingly watching. Arden took her up into his arms. "Might we have a song, do you think?" he said to Libbeth, and his voice was wistful. "It's been so long... A mighty long time since I heard you singing, honey." A flood of self-accusation rushed over her. While she had been moping, he had been planning this great surprise for her! "Oh, yes! Yes, of course!" she cried. "Only... I'm so surprised I can hardly talk — let alone sing! Of course I will!" Eagerly, she started to raise the cover and was puzzled to find it resisting. She pushed, pulled, pushed again, her puzzlement changing to alarm. Maybe the wood had warped... Though it looked all tight.... Anxiously, she thrust her hand upward inside the cover, feeling carefully underneath for anything that might be the cause of the trouble. She caught her breath with relief as she found it—the corner of a thick envelope protruding from the back. With a little difficulty she drew it forth. With her first glance at the penciled writing on its face, she gasped and grew faint. Arden put < arm quickly around her to steady er. "I'm all right, dear. I just felt startled. 'This is Mother's writing." "Your mother's?" Arden repeated. "But—why, Libbeth!" The two stood staring, unbelieving. For Libbeth had drawn forth the contents of the envelope, and in her hand was a packet of greenbacks and a brief note, which presently she read wonderingly: "My darling daughter: "T have heard that you are going West. I dare not try to see you; you know how our friends feel about you, and your father and I do not care to risk their disfavor by being friendly to any Mormons. "But I want you to have this money. It is my own, and I think even your father would not mind too much your having it, though he would never admit this; you know he seldom retracts anything he has said. I intend to come to your house when you are away and leave this where it will be safe until you find it. "Please remember, dear child, that though this strange new religion which you have adopted may be the means of separating us forever, I shall never cease to love you and to pray that all may be well with you and yours. God bless you, and dearest love to you both. "Alice Mead." Libbeth was crying softly as she finished reading. "Arden, remember that day I said her perfume was in the room when we came home?. That was the time; I know it. She hid this under the organ cover, and it slipped back out of sight. It's been there all this time. Arden, take it! It frightens me to have so much of it in my hands at once!" He said, smiling, yet with a sober note in his voice, "It does look like a young fortune. I'll keep it till you're ready to use it for whatever purpose you wish." "Our house, Arden! Maybe now we can finish it so we can move int 824 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There's nothing I want so much! Why, maybe we can do all the things at once—get the rest of our things brought on, buy the new stove and heater and the store carpet for the parlor." She was laughing and crying, and the sight frightened little Ardena so she began to whimper. "There, you lamb, Mother's all right. Listen, ll sing you a song!" Haltingly, and with errors which amused while they dismayed her, she played and sang—old love ballads, a hymn or two. There was no longer any gloom in the cabin but only gladness and cheer. Not alone what the money would mean, Libbeth told herself, but the message from her mother. She reread the note several times before putting out the lamp at her bedside. She understood, now, a part of her discontentment which heretofore she had not guessed. It was homesickness, wanting her mother. A wife and mother herself, but still deep within her was a little-girl heart longing to know her own mother's love. Now she had assurance of that love, "dearest love' which would never cease. In bed she cried for awhile, muffling her sobs in the pillow lest she awaken the children; Arden lay awake beside her, puzzled and awkward in his attempts to comfort her. "It was a crazy place to put all that money," he remarked after awhile. "It might have been lost forever!" Libbeth stirred eagerly. '"'Probably she has thought of that, too. Arden, I'm going to write her. I think she should know." "That," he agreed, "would be kind, I think." "I’ll tell her all about us. Arden, Mother doesn't even know she has a grandchild, to say nothing of two of them! I'll write the first thing tomorrow!" THEY moved into the new house just three days before Christmas. The miracle of telegraphy, starting their stored goods out within a few hours after their decision, made possible the arrival of things in time to add to the excitement and pleasure. What a Christmas it was to be! Libbeth had gifts for each of the family, including one great extravagance, a small gold pendant and chain for Ardena. 'That was the child's gift from the grandmother she might never know, and it was of a quality fine enough to treasure through the years. Inside the new house it was warm and cozy. Deep snow came the day after they were established there, and the feathery flakes piled against the windows and the doorsills. Within, Libbeth played, and Arden and Ardena sang with her, and even baby Joe seemed to try valiantly to join them, making queer lovable sounds. The organ stood grandly in the parlor, near the sitting-room door where—thanks to the new heater—Libbeth could always play in comfort. There was a fireplace in the parlor itself; they planned to light the first fire there on Christmas Eve. They had a tree, too. A symmettical young spruce, deep green and fragrant. Festoons of popcorn decked it, and bright-colored tapers awaited the time for lighting. As a Christmas Eve surprise for Arden, Libbeth had secretly taught RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 825 their little girl to sing "Silent Night". Very nicely she sang it, while he stood in the sitting-room doorway and gave flattering attention, "She's going to be a real singer!" he boasted. "Maybe some day we'll have a particular interest in the big choir, eh, Mother?" That was a new dream, exciting and wonderful. Already the fame of the great domed Tabernacle was spreading over the world. Its majestic pipe organ was the marvel of all the valleys. It was being said that with the coming of the railroad people would journey from many lands just to see and hear it. That would not be long now; day by day the shining rails were reaching out farther into the wilderness, bringing neater the time when Utah would be bound to the nation by a strong steel girdle. Voices, hallooing from the street, broke into Libbeth's mental wanderings. She followed as Arden went to answer. There were two people coming up the path from the gate. A small fur-wrapped lady came running across the porch and into Libbeth's eager arms. Behind her came a tall man with square shoulders and an erect bearing. "Mother! Why—my own mother! And Father—how in the world —when—why—?" They were senseless, mixed-up greetings, questions tossed out without need or expectancy of reply. Confusion, joyous, thrilling confusion! Only after a long time, after they had eaten and cleared everything away, and gathered at last around the bright fire, did the conversation become intelligible and consistent. "Oh, we had to come—after your letter,' Alice Mead said. "When we knew about the children—" "We!" Grandfather Mead laughed loudly. "We! Don't you believe it. It was she who's responsible. It was rank insubordination, that's what it was. 'I'm going to spend Christmas with my daughter and my grandchildren,' she said to me, 'and you may come along if you wish.' Yes, sir, just like that! And what else could I do, if she'd risk her neck in a crazy stage-coach journey through your incredible mountains at this season, what could I do but come along to look after her?" "Not a thing else!" Libbeth laughed. She saw through her father's bluff, she told herself joyously. He was as glad as his little spunky wife was, to be here. It was good to have them here, her father and her mother, sitting with her own family in this spirit of joy and companionship! THE gladness of living was strong upon her now. She was proud of her house, its snug warmth, its comfort, its lamps burning clear and bright, its atmosphere of love and contentment; proud of her children, blue-eyed Ardena, quiet and wondering in her grandmother's lap, and baby Joey, toddling from father to grandfather and back again with impartial affection; proud of the conversation which had turned to boasting of the progress and growth and the wonders being wrought here in the valleys of the mountains. "Why, I expected a desert!'' said Jervis Mead. "But you find the desert blossoming as a rose!" Arden's face glowed. "And I tell you, there are riches beyond our dreams waiting to unfold for us in this land—pre- 826 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cious metals in our mountains, fine grazing lands and fertile farm sites in every direction, no end of possibilities for industry of all kinds. We made no mistake in coming nor in making these people our people; did we, Libbeth?" "No mistake!" she agreed. "There's. No place I'd rather have my babies growing up!" The light in her eyes told them what the warmth in her heart was telling her —that this which she had spoken was really true. "No place in all the world!" "No place in all the world!" The words went through her mind over and over again—singing words, a song which had been born long ago, born in the little cabin even while she was too discontented to know. Jervis Mead was speaking again. "T hope you'll forgive me, you two, for the past. No one has a right to dictate to another what he shall believe. I'm sincere in saying that. Even if I don't quite agree with the Mormon teachings, you people out here have my respect and admiration. Id like to feel that we can be friends, and I'd like to feel that we, here in this house, are friends and more—are one family, and will always be; that you and I, Arden, are father and son." "Why, of course." "I mean, my boy, caring deeply, as these women would like to have us. And these babies... " he was taking Joey up into his arms again. "Look at him," said Jervis Mead, looking into little Joey's wide, confident baby eyes. "He really likes me. How about you, my lad?" "You're right, sir. We'll be close to each other, always." "We'll make it a Christmas gift to-the women we love, eh? A gift of peace and good will!" Their clasped hands sealed the compact. Just then, Ardena slipped down from the grandmother's knee and came toward her mother. "The candles, now, Mudther, light the candles!" They put out the lamps, so there would be only the candles and the lowering firelight in the room. One by one the tapers gleamed out, until the room was mellow with the light of them. Each one, though but a tiny glimmer, was a symbol of the Star of long ago whose light was renewed and would continue to be renewed each year where hearts admitted the Christmas spirit of love and harmony. Each candle was an infinitesimal but certain testimony that the Star which hung over Bethlehem, had shone with a Light eternal. The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Eva W. Darger Director of Relief Society Employment Bureau which the Relief Society has been actively interested during its entire history is the finding of employment for women and girls of the Church. At the present time, when so much stress is being placed upon securing work for the unemployed, the efforts of this department have been greatly increased. The Relief Society Employment Department concerns itself almost entirely with domestic service, which includes housekeepers, general house workers, mothers' helpers, cooks, nurse maids, laundresses, day workers and practical nurses. An average of two hundred and fifty domestic workers are placed by this department each month. Although there are no definite legal standards to regulate this group of workers, we are doing all we can to raise the standards and requirements of the homes as well as those of the workers through our placement procedure. The procedure includes investigations for satisfactory and permanent placements, adjustment of difficulties, friction and misunderstandings, coordination of training and placement, informal discussion with employers and employees before placement, and follow-up work. A personal interview with each individual applicant is necessary, during which the history of the person, her education, experience, training Or phase of welfare work in and fitness for the position applied for is thoroughly discussed. References from former employers as to experience, ability and character are checked, and the applicant is classified accordingly. If the applicant is inexperienced, personal references for character and background from reliable sources are required; then, the best opportunity for the applicant to consider is suggested. Many older women, untrained in any particular field, who are forced into the business world are helped to find employment as domestic workers, nurses or day workers. Some follow-up work after placement is carried on in order to see if the arrangement is satisfactory and if the worker is making progress. The workers are encouraged to make personal visits to the office during time off for counsel and advice. Most employees, the younger workers especially, express their appreciation of this service and are grateful to know that we are interested in their progress and anxious for their success. The standard, fundamental requirements of a good housework position are: Reasonable and definite hours, sanitary and comfortable living and working conditions, systematized work, steady employment, opportunities for advancement, freedom from social stigma, and adequate wages. Some standard requirements necessary to the employee, 828 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which will help to bring about better cooperation and greater harmony within the home, are: A good character—honest, reliable and conscientious; a willingness to learn; an alert and active interest in the job; a good physical record; a neat, clean, tidy appearance; a sense of responsibility. The Bureau of Vocational Counsel of Boston has listed several outstanding vocational stumbling blocks to success which workers might avoid. Some of them are: Not realizing that successful working depends upon successful living; inability to cooperate with people; choosing a job entirely for the money involved; underestimation or overestimation of one's abilities; trying to do too much at a time rather than progressing gradually; using dull times as a constant source of pessimistic attitudes; inattention to spiritual qualities. Our biggest task today is restoring employment to workers, not merely finding the man or woman a job but finding the right job for the man or woman. In order to accomplish this, vocational guidance is provided by the Relief Society Employment Service. Counsel and assistance are given girls and women contemplating employment as well as those not happily adjusted in their present work in order that they may obtain greater insight into their own aptitudes, capacities, traits, skills, knowledge, and background. They are encouraged to secure any additional education or training necessary for available employment opportunities and to make the most of educational, recreational and other opportunities provided by the community. With an understanding knowledge of human beings, skill in dealing with other people's problems, and with a desire to strengthen and encourage the individual's faith in herself, this program of providing employment for women is being carried on. FIRE A SONG Across Judean hills arose A song, the angels singing; It touched the stillness of the night Softly as church bells ringing. A song of peace—peace and good will From Holy realms above For all the tired hungry hearts Who felt need of His Love. A song—immortal, heaven born— We'd hear it if we would; Look to Him now, for angels sing, Still sing of brotherhood. —Sylvia Probst. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon DECEMBER—Happiness lies in remembrance of simple things: Children's laughter, opening buds, birds' songs, fragrant flowers, fleecy clouds, autumn tints, scented pines, frosted trees and snow-capped hills. MOTHER GOOSE, Alice in Wonderland, Snow White, The Wizard of Oz, Little Black Sambo, Ferdinand and all the wonderful people of Fairyland are with us once again, and little children wander up and down the gaily decorated avenues and brilliant lanes of stores in wonder and delight. ROBLEY LUSHANYA, an American Indian of the Chickasaws, is singing this winter with the Chicago Opera company in the title role of Aida. Lushanya, meaning bird that sings, was a protege of 'Tetrazzina and made her operatic debut in Trieste, Italy in 1937. MARIE OGILVIE GORDON, 24 years Vice-President and later Hon. President of the International Council of Women, died last October. Mrs. Gordon was a distinguished scholar. She graduated from the University of London as the first woman Doctor of Science and obtained degrees of Doctor of Philosophy from Berlin and Munich Universities. Because of her academic achievements and _ public service, King George V created her Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1935. MME. MARIE POPP, President of the Legal and Political Association for the Emancipation of Women of Rumania, is a member of the Rumanian Senate. HORTENSE ODLUM of New York and native of Utah has written a book, "A Woman's Place," in which she tells her experience in the business world. ROXANNA GUNNELL, Lula Olsen, and Jennie Binkerd of Utah are the first women to serve on a federal grand jury. Mrs. Gunnell was elected foreman. ALICE BRADY, celebrated stage and screen star, died recently in New York. Among her greatest creations were Mrs. O'Leary in "Old Chicago" and Meg in "Little Women." MUINDWELL CHIPMAN HUNTER, faithful Latter-day Saint worker and for sixteen years President of the Eighth Ward Relief Society, died early in the year in Portland, Oregon. HANNAH ALDRICH, Handcart pioneer of Utah, recently celebrated her 99th birthday at her home in Mt. Pleasant. Among the presents was a cake with 99 candles. NAOMI JACOBS has written another fascinating novel, "This Porcelain Clay." Margaret Flint, author of "Old Ashburn Place," prize novel, has a new novel, "Breakneck Brook," with a Maine setting. Marjory Shuler, first woman to circumnavigate the world in commercial planes, has written the story of her great adventure, "A Panegyric to "Adventure." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - = =, % AMY BROWN LYMAN) - - - - < c = - = KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - ~ Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer President First Counselor THE GENERAL BOARD Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spatford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 O? EDIT ORIAL?O What Does Christmas Mean To You? WORDS are strange things? \ an articulate sound or combination of sounds which symbolize an idea. They take on meaning in the light of the life experiences of the hearer; for example, the word "mother" brings a certain picture to One person while to another it may recall something quite different. Words have fine connotations; what may be "honest" to me may not be "honest" to you. Words have great power: They stimulate the intellect; they stir the emotions; they influence behavior. Probably no one word is exerting a greater influence upon our emotions, our thinking, our planning and our doing at the present time than the single word "Christmas". What does "Christmas" connote to you? Does it bring to mind a virgin mother, a tiny babe, a lowly manger? Do you picture shepherds keeping watch over their flocks by night, the glory of the Lord shining round about them, an angel choir praising God and saying, "on earth peace, good will toward men"? Does your heart fill with gratitude for God's greatest gift to man? Are you stirred with a desire to serve Him more devotedly, to love His children more sincerely? Thousands there are the world over to whom the word "Christmas" suggests such thoughts. Christmas_to them is "observance". To others the word conveys a distinctly opposite picture?one of hilarious debauchery, the gratification of extravagant wants, reckless spending, the overindulgence of physical appetites, excessive eating, intemperate drinking?excesses which can only bring distress, remorse and a general lowering of the quality of the individual. Christmas to them is "celebration". Many there are to whom the word suggests excitement, overwork, anxiety, worry, self-denial. The day looms before them as something which must be met, which must be lived through, but which will be a "good thing over with". The majority of individuals, however, find their hearts beating in joyous anticipation in response to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 831 word "Christmas". It means giving, receiving, sharing, sacrificing. It is a happy, joyous time?a time when all are made glad. Like the streets and the shops, hearts are light, made bright by an inward flame of love for mankind. So pronounced is the feeling of love, so generous are hearts, that wisdom does not always dictate our Christmas expressions. Often sacrifices are made out of proportion to the requirements of the day. People deny themselves important things that they may be lavish in their giving. All too often debts are incurred which become a burden as we move into the New Year, and Christmas joys are made dull by the heavy load. This is particularly true in the case of parents providing for their children. Children have so many wants, so many desires in this day. Everything contributes to whetting these wants?the shops, radio, magazine and newspaper advertising, door-to-door salesmen, the plans of - playmates and companions. Parents can scarcely bear the thought of denying the child his Christmas wants; in many cases great sacrifices are made in order to gratify them. Sacrifice is good?it stamps out selfishness, it develops the individual, it brings its compensations. But should parents always be the ones to make the sacrifice? Would it not be a wholesome thing for the child to make sacrifice also, to forego some of his desires? In making too great sacrifices, may we not be indulging the selfishnesses of our children, denying them one of the greatest gifts parents can give?the opportunity for character development? Cooperation is a sound principle of happy living. Why not apply it in our Christmas observance? Let the family plan and work together, each making his contribution in the form of sharing, giving and sacrificing. Then the great gift of self-development, family unity and stability, true happiness, will come to all. A happy Christmas must be dominated by our intelligence as well as our emotions. It will always remain a Challenge to the best that is in us. It should not be a time of indulgence nor of stress and strain because of our imperfect approach to it. It should not debase the fundamental ideals of Christianity. Let us not place too high a value upon the things which money can buy. Let us develop an appreciation of the desirability of the immaterial as a source of happiness and satisfaction. Let us emphasize the type of happiness which no amount of money can ever buy. Then the word "Christmas" will have its proper connotation?peace, good will, love, Qtems. OF INTEREST Notes From the Field "NOTES FROM THE FIELD" have told a wonderful story of the Relief Society as it is reflected in the work of the organizations all over the world. We are very grateful for the beautiful pictures and the interesting items. Those which have not been used will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. This month we are happy to yield our space to the Magazine Honor Roll. This excellent report is in reality "Notes From The Field". Attention: Literary Class Members THE BENT TWIG by Dorothy book will be available at the Deseret Canfield Fisher will be used in Book Company the latter part of Desubstitution for the Four Horsemen cember. The purchase price will not of the Apocalypse by Ibanez. The exceed $1.00. Pan-American Good Will Tour THE General Board of Relief Society helped entertain the five outstanding women of Central and South America who are making a Good Will Tour throughout the United States and who made a brief stop in Salt Lake City, Saturday, November 4. 'This trip is in a measure a return visit for a similar tour through the Latin-American countries led by our Mrs. Burton W. Musser in 1937, with great results of new friendliness and better PanAmerican understanding. More than three hundred people who attended the luncheon in honor of the illustrious visitors came away with a new interest in the nations they represent and realizing that women the world over work for the same ideals?the improving and conserving of human life and above all the preservation of PEACE. New Books BOOK two of the Jimmy Microbe series, under the title of HitchHiking With Jimmy Microbe, written by Virginia and Drew Jacobsen and Lyman L. Daines, M. D., all of Salt Lake City, made its appearance in the book stores of our country during the summer. This book has succeeded in presenting an adventuresome story for children providing at the same time in a very clever and original way scientific counsel on good health habits. A SECOND edition of Heart Throbs of the West, compiled by Mrs. Kate B. Carter and published by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, is now off the press. The book deals with 24 definite phases of Pioneer life. It contains many new human-interest stories as well as valuable historical facts. Pioneer life will always be of interest, and this new volume will add much to our appreciation of the history of the West. Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson RESUME?FIRST INSTALLMENT Carotyn Evans thought she was being a good wife by working hard and saving consistently without complaint. She became so absorbed in petty details of work and saving that she could sec nothing else. She had even forgotten how to neighbor with other ranch wives. Then with cruel bluntness her husband had refused to take her with him to a Stock Growers Convention. Hurt beyond words and sick with disappointment, she rushed away from the house to her CATHEDRAL OF PeEAcE. This was a cottonwood grove in the "'bottoms'' pasture of the Idaho ranch that was her home. In the grove she could always find peace and quiet from the conflicting pressures of a discordant home and overbearing husband. Weeping there and asking herself "why?", she is accosted by Kane Holland, who is a rancher neighbor. He is a bachelor who in the past has been kind and considerate to Carolyn and her boys. Highly indignant over the treatment she receives from her husband, he offers her a way out via the divorce court. Carolyn is confused more than incensed. Realizing this, Kane leaves her to think things out alone. She is soon interrupted by Bob Evans, her first-born son. He is large and strong like his father but with much of his mother's shyness. Secretly, he thinks, he is in love with a newcomer to the valley. He refuses, however, to make any advances to her because of the condition of his home. In sympathizing with his mother over his father's neglect of her, he speaks highly of Kane Holland. That brings a warm glow to Carolyn's heart. She feels if she does leave her husband, she will have Bob's support. She lets him know, in a timid, indirect way, that Kane is in love with her. Bob startles her by exclaiming, ""Good grief, Mother, be your age." CHAPTER TWO THE grim humor of her son's abrupt change in viewpoint struck Carolyn like a dash of ice water. She laughed, lightly at first, then wildly, hysterically. Tears so much a stranger to her, rollea down her cheeks. Bob's discomfort sharpened to alarm. He started to put an arm over her shoulder then drew back. "Mother, please. I didn't ? I don't mean?confound it, I don't know what I mean, but don't cry." Like many reserved people, when Carolyn lost control she lost completely. Great racking sobs shook her. "Mother, listen. If you don't stop crying I am going for Dad. You'll ruin yourself. Please, Mother." Carolyn fought for control, but the long delayed storm was slow in passing. She missed with keen appreciation a loving arm about her, a shoulder to cry on. She was alone, completely alone. When she showed signs of control, Bob grew irritated again. "That sounded as if I were running out on you, but I'm not, Mother. After all, you don't need to take what he's giving you." "What can I do?" "How do I know? That is your problem." His voice softened. "After all, it's your life and you can do what you please with it; but think of the mess. Breaking up a family is no small affair." He looked toward the Elkhorn and voiced a sudden thought. "He would not leave 834 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her home alone while he went to the Convention. No one would make a doormat of her." Carolyn tried to think. In that brief period when she had considered leaving she had counted on Bob to understand. She must have counted on all the children understanding and going with her. Carson, her second born, had always been resentful and sharp. He had never left doubts as to his likes and aversions. She had never felt entirely sure of him, but she had thought she was so certain of Bob. If she couldn't depend on Bob, would she dare mention such a thing to Carson? Bob had inferred she was a doormat. That hurt worse than his father's neglect. One crystal clear thought took possession of her. Divorce or not, Bob would never have occasion to speak of her in such a manner again. "Okay." She borrowed his expression, and although he did not know it, the word, unfamiliar on her lips, was her whistle in the dark. "Do you want to go to the Elkhorn with me?" "When?" "Right now." "For what?" "To tell her I am going to learn not to be a doormat." "You mean you are going to work in the Relief Society?" Then as she nodded, "but you know what Dad said about it last night." "I know, but after all?' Something of her crushed pride, her terrible uncertainty, her groping determination, her need for love was transmitted to him. He caught her in his arms. "Gee, Mom, you are grand. [ll go with you?all the way." Reaching for his discarded shovel, he threw it over his shoulder, and they moved on to cross the narrow footbridge over West Fork, and on to the house. "TIl drive you over," Bob offered, "or saddle a horse." IN the pasture back of the corrals a man was watching their approach. Turner Evans was an older, heavier edition of his son Robert. Time had dealt kindly with him. He was straight and his muscles hard. Black hair, where it showed beneath his hat; was only lightly sprinkled with gray. His eyes had lost none of their alertness. As he watched the two, the muscles of his mouth settled into grim lines, but a great weariness battled irritatingly within him. "She's been to that grove again. I've a mind to burn it down. Why doesn't she face things instead of always running away?" The thought of the cottonwood grove was, to him, the waving of a red flag. Why didn't she develop a little spine instead of withdrawing. When she returned from the grove, she had a reserve an axe couldn't cut?and where did that leave him? The inconsistency of the question added to his irritation. Perhaps he was harsh. Perhaps he was trying with his harshness to force her to? what was he trying to do? What was wrong with him? With her? He hadn't meant to hurt her so. No, he really hadn't. He'set his lips grimly. He was leaving her home to keep her from experiencing a deeper hurt and a more devastating one. A mental picture of Carolyn dressed in what she called her "best" rose to plague him. Once he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 835 tried to explain to her. Once, for a period, he had gone to extremes in his attentions to her, hoping to hold fast something that was rapidly slipping away from him. But that, too, had been ineffective. Carolyn was just where she had been fifteen years ago. No, she was not?she was not that woman at all. The futility of it, the hopelessness of achieving any change, soured his vitals and sharpened his tongue. Imagine her beside the other wives. Imagine her beside?and long ago she had forgotten how to talk. Weariness won the battle temporarily. What was the use of it all? Where was the satisfaction life had once promised so abundantly? Where had they drifted? Carolyn, Carolyn, what has happened to us? "Til stay home myself." Then, immediately he thought, "No. I shan't do it. I won't stagnate." A quick, clear vision of another woman came to him?a warm sympathetic woman, thoroughly feminine, yet who could give him the intellectual companionship for which he was so hungry. If only? but he thrust the thought aside. That thought was too dangerous to play with. Carolyn was his wife; he loved her, or once had, and a man didn't do such things to the mother of his children. He looked at Bob, and his face softened. What a man he could be if only he didn't grow inward. He was so much like Carolyn there was more than a chance of it. He must be stern with him. He must whip him into shape. He left the pasture and met them in the yard. He meant to control himself, but habit was strong. "It is time someone was getting here," he barked. "Where have you been?" He was looking at Carolyn, but the son answered: "TIrrigating, as I was commanded." "Get on a horse and ride to the east-line fence and see what is keeping Carson. I sent him down there six hours ago. He can kill more time when he rides in that direction than any two men I ever saw. Take another hammer and plyers along. He has the other stuff with him, or should have, but you can never tell." Bob hesitated. "I was going to drive Mother over to the Elkhorn." "That can wait." He glanced sharply at his wife. '"Why does. She want to go? You get that fence fixed. I want those yearlings in there before dark." Taking the shovel from the boy, he turned and left. "Go on," Carolyn said, as Bob still hesitated. "Carson is probably at Semples, or Garden is with him. I wish he would stay away from her." "What about telling Mrs. Straughn? You are not going to back down?" Carolyn hesitated. This was a sample of the way she so easily lost control of a situation. Why try to fight? There was comfort, of a sort, in a beaten path. She glanced at her boy, and her resolution stiffened. No, she would not retreat. "You ride by and tell her for me. Find Carson first; then you needn't hurry." Seeing them still standing, the father called, "Did you hear me say I wanted that done in a hurry?" "Go on," Carolyn urged. "Let's 836 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not have any more fussing." She turned toward the house. "Give in. That is always your solution," the boy accused; she went on without answering. "WHERE have you been so long?" her five-year-old Judy greeted her as she entered the house. "Us twins looked and looked." At the window Carolyn watched Bob prepare to ride away. "Where is Bobby going?" Jerry, the more active of the twins demanded. "T want to go with him," Judy announced suddenly and began calling, "Bobby, Bobby, wait for me." They were both out of the house and after him in a flash. He stopped. Ordinarily, he would have put them in the saddle, and he would have ridden behind. This time he sent them back. Carolyn's heart caught as he rode away. Horse and boy were a symphony of movement. All she had endured was as nothing to the joy of being the mother of this childman. Was peace worth his disapproval? But of what did he disapprove? Definitely, he resented any connection between her and Kane. Just as definitely he disapproved of her going on as she was. Did he have the right to prescribe the bounds of her existence? In one, two or three years at the most he would be gone. He could build his own life as he pleased, but what of her? Life would not last forever. In the too few years left hadn't she a right to some degree of happiness? Was it the fact that you had a master that counted, or who the master was? Meanwhile, Bob had gone back the way they had come. Half a mile south through the trees he turned east to the fence. This was the "bottoms" land that during high water was a marsh and sometimes a lake. After the water receded, it made good pasture. The undergrowth and scattered clumps of trees kept the ground moist and cool. The grass grew rank and succulent. Almost opposite Carolyn's Cathedral Bob found the break. A rush of water earlier in the season had loosened the fence. Carson had reset the posts but had not touched the wire. His horse, still saddled, was cropping near by, but the boy was not to be seen. Bob called once or twice but received no answer, so he went to work. This was like Cars to stop in the middle of a job. It was to be hoped he would show up soon. Bob must get through in time to go by the Elkhorn. A hot sweet ecstacy flooded Bob at the thought of the Elkhorn. From an inner secret shrine he brought to remembrance The Girl, and strangely, she was the flesh and bone, the sparkle and wit, the intellect and gracious femininity of June Straughn. That was queer, he thought, for he had known The Girl for several years, and two months ago he hadn't heard of June Straughn. He still hadn't been introduced to her. He knew with the certainty of youth that no other girl would ever enter his shrine. "Girls like her don't marry men like me," he thought, bitterly. If things were different. If Dad treated his family as he did his neighbors. If Mother?he gave the staple he was placing a vicious blow. Confound Kane Holland, falling for a woman like Mother. Didn't any of them know their ages? One would think they were?he dropped his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 837 hammer with the suddenness of thought. Did Kane feel toward Mother as he felt toward June? Absurd! They were old. They had had their day. Irritably, he stooped to recover his hammer. Poised to strike another blow at the staple, he stopped with another thought. Would his day with June end when. They became older? Suppose he should marry her, would he in years to come treat her as Dad treated Mother? This time the blows of the hammer threatened to dislodge the post. Heaven forbid! Better to have an unspoiled dream than a tarnished reality. June's parents were still having their day. Even 'the most casual observer could be sure of that. It was that quality which made them so attractive. Maybe Mom missed that. Now, maybe she did. As for that, maybe Dad did. Once in a while, with Dad, you caught a glimpse of something. Could it be he had once felt as Bob felt now, strong as an ox with protectiveness, yet quivering with humility? Dad was a mighty decent person, too. He was good looking and popular. Some fellows in his shoes would have been chasers. Vaguely, he wondered if that had anything to do with Dad's irritation. When he thought of June?he groaned aloud. Why, why did some people, heads of families, get themselves in such messes? One thing was certain, they were messing up his life as well as their own. "WHAT are you groaning about?" Bob looked around. Carson was standing beside him, and he was in an ill humor. Carson was shorter than Bob and slighter. While resembling his mother in looks, there was none of her quiet reserve about him. Every day he played through the entire emotional scale, and no one could predict what particular note he would strike at any given time. "It's time you were showing up," Bob told him. "Dad is on the war path. Where have you been?" "None of your business," Carson answered shortly, "I am old enough to take care of myself." Bob sniffed. "It doesn't smell like it." "And what are you going to do about it? If I want to smoke, I will. Semples are top people I'll have you know." "Yeah?" "Yeah." Picking up his discarded hammer, Carson banged furiously at an unoffending post. "And I mean yes. At least the atmosphere in their home doesn't pickle you. They are fun." "Catch hold with your _plyers. Now, pull. If they are such fun, why are you always cross after you have been there?" Carson didn't answer, but when they were picking up their tools preparatory to leaving, he said: "IT can't stand an undercurrent nagging at me all the time. Why don't they fight and get it out of their systems. If I am ever crazy enough to marry?" "Better get a strong willed gal," Bob interrupted, "or you will be worse than Dad. At that, you will probably fight." "How about a sweet one who can twist me to her will?" Bob, in the act of swinging into his saddle, stopped in alarm. "Listen, Kid, you stay away from that outfit. They are fun but?" 838 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Horsefeathers," Carson snorted, "and don't kid me. I am only two years younger than you. Let's have a swim." Leaving their horses, they walked to the bank of the river two or three hundred yards away. The river, at the point they chose, was completely curtained with cottonwood and willows. It was shallow except about a bare, overhanging bluff where, in making a turn, the water had swept a hole. The slightly musty odor of the meadows, mingled with the fragrance of wild roses and tangy willows, was a challenge to their youth. Stripping quickly, they plunged in. The water was cold and slapped at their skin with an invigorating sting. Later, as they were dressing, Carson said, "This is certainly a secluded spot. I believe you and I are the only ones that know about it. If I wanted to do any skullduggery, I'd come here for it." "The cattle know about it," Bob indicated. "They probably use this bluff to shade up on. So you can depend on humans knowing it, too." Through the quiet came a clear call. "That is Mrs. Semple," Carson said, in a burst of confidence. "You know, sometimes I think she isn't so keen about being her brother's housekeeper. He is a sort of jolly fellow; yet, I notice they all jump to his tune. This spot is on his land. I hope they haven't discovered it." LATER, as they walked their horses along the line fence, Carson returned to his original subject. "You needn't worry about me and Garden. I'm leaving." "Leaving? Where are you going?" "Anywhere I can get a job. I am going to try the Cross Line outfit. They hire new men, now and again." "Dad would not let you go." "Until I get a job I shan't tell him, and neither will you," he added emphatically. "If I get it, he can whistle." "What about school?" "Yeah, I know; but I've got to get out. I've got to be on my own." Bob did not answer. He knew without putting it in words that Carson was growing up. He was full of contradictory desires and emotions. He had to do something or go some place to test his own powers. What he needed was something strong to tie to. If he had that, going to school would probably satisfy him. "Watch your step," he warned, "you don't want to live with regrets." 'Then as they crossed West Fork above its junction with the river, he added, "I am going to the Elkhorn on an errand for Mother." "For Mother, huh? That's a new one. Watch your step, Little Boy. You are inexperienced." "Go to grass." Bob turned his horse, and as he loped easily along the grass-covered road he found himself keenly anticipating what lay ahead. He had been wanting to do this ever since the Elkhorn had changed hands. The Straughns were the type of people he and his were going to be?if there ever were any "his'"?the kind his own Dad and Mother should be. The river was low where he crossed, but it reached the bay's knees at that. Only then did Bob notice the figure, sitting astride her horse, watching. (To be continued) MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker "God, let me be aware, Let me not stumble blindly down the ways Just getting somehow safely through the days. Let my hand, groping, find other hands, Give me the heart that divines, understands. Please keep me eager just to do my share; God, let me be aware." ?Meriam Teichner. AS the Christmas season approaches, we become imbued with the spirit of giving gifts and spreading happiness and cheer. Most of us would love to do the kindly things within our reach if we were only aware of what these might be. Life pushes us from so many sides that we don't take time to think of those outside our intimate circle and the things we might do to make their way a little brighter. If we would only develop a "seeing eye and an understanding heart," we would never be at a loss for something to do. It is the little thoughtful, considerate things tht are often most deeply appreciated. Every woman knows that by careful planning she can make her Christmas money reach farther and do more in bringing gladness and joy to other hearts. Plan to buy at least one gift from Mormon Handicraft this year. Not only will you be getting something high class, but you will be helping an unknown friend to have more for her Christmas. Bring a friend with you to the Shop and help widen our list of patrons. If you are looking for a useful quilt or a pretty coverlet, you will find many to choose from; also many beautiful pillow cases, luncheon sets, doilies, table covers, etc. See the lovely handmade dolls. If your little daughter is collecting dolls, she will want a real pioneer with her ruffled petticoats, gingham apron and sunbonnet. For friends or loved ones living away from home, a small box containing four glasses of native jelly would be truly a "sweet" gift. Come early, you may want to order a hand-knit sweater or a ski set consisting of cap, mittens, socks and scarf, in time for Christmas. The Shop is filled with so many things; it is a good place to come for suggestions, and you will be doing your share for our cause, as well as helping to make a merry, happy Christmas for others. Please take notice: Many of the quilts being sent to the Shop are too short. A handmade quilt is usually bought to be used as a coverlet and should be long enough to serve this purpose. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Uses of the Left Hand in Conducting By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff ALTHOUGH most of the conductor's desires can be indicated in some measure to the chorus by means of the baton alone, the use of the left hand is necessary to clarify and emphasize the messages conveyed by the right. Since the baton is constantly moving, its movements do not attract instant attention. The effectiveness of the left hand in getting expression lies in the fact that usually it hangs relaxed at the side, invisible to: the chorus; its slightest motion, therefore, demands attention. Sometimes the left hand parallels the right, but more often it does not. Then comes the difficulty, best mastered by persistent practice before a mirror. An uplifted palm or finger will insure the holding of a long note for its full value. The same movement coupled with tension in the left arm (as if it upheld a heavy weight) will indicate loudness. Softness may be indicated by pushing down and toward the chorus with the left hand, palm down. A sudden accent may be obtained by doubling the fist tightly and making a vigorous motion in the direction demanded by the beat on which the accent occurs. The right hand must continue its movements uninterruptedly throughout any of these movements. In the course of a piece, where the rhythm must continue while the chorus holds a long note, it is best to insure that everyone stops, together by holding and cutting off the chorus with the left hand, without stopping the movement of the right. The same supporting motion of the left hand will prevent the chorus from breathing in the wrong place. It can be made to take breath wherever the conductor wishes by drawing back both hands toward the body momentarily and without interrupting the rhythm, at the same time expanding the ribs and elbows as though taking a deep breath. As the music becomes more complicated, the different voices do not enter together. In such pieces, the entrance and sometimes the exit of each voice should be indicated by cue-beat and cut-off with the left -hand. A look toward the part affected intensifies the effect. The chorus can be balanced while singing by indicating softness or loudness to the proper part with the left hand. Care must be taken not to vary the size of the beat, or the entire chorus will respond. It is evident that none of these left-hand motions can be well executed until the right hand beat-patterns have become so automatic that nothing disturbs them. Effective conducting requires that the eyes of the director be free to communicate with the chorus. It is best to conduct from memory, since eyes and left hand are then free to be used to best advantage." *It is now obvious that these articles are as valuable to the organist as to the chorister. The chorister must know how to execute the movements that will force the chorus t@ do as she wishes; the organist must be able to interpret them faster than the chorus, in order to assist the effect. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 841 Emotional Content of Vocal Music MUSIC that is written as a setting for words is usually intended to express the emotion that is contained in those words. This may be accomplished in two very different ways: 1. The first method may be called "classical", since it is the one used by composers of the classical period, notably Mozart. In it the individual words are somewhat disregarded, and the piece is so written that its total emotional effect is the same as that of the words. The music in this kind of composition is effective whether the words can be understood or not. 2. The second method may be called "tomantic"', not because it savors of romance in the vulgar sense, but because song writers of the romantic period, such as Schumann and Grieg, made extensive use of it. In this type of composition the value of each word is emphasized by the music to which it is sung. The music then hangs on the words and is not as effective if the words are not heard or known. Most songs are written both ways. In some places the music controls the way the words are sung, and in others the words control the singing of the music. It is necessary to determine where each occurs. To do this the words must be read and analyzed carefully; the music must be heard and thoroughly learned; then, the two must be compared, important words marked, and outstanding harmonies or melodic fragments noted. The next step is to discover the prevailing emotional tone or mood of the entire piece. The best way to make the mood definite in the conductor's mind is to find a single word or phrase that will express it. This method of procedure is ably set forth by J. Spencer Cornwall in his Church Choristers' Manual, which every one of our conductors should study with the greatest of care. The following list of moodwords is drawn from Brother Cormwall's list: Sadness, depression, sorrow, agony; playfulness, gayety, gladness, happiness; supplication, thankfulness, worship, praise; tenderness, longing, love, adoration; love of country, reverence for great men, martial spirit, glory of victory. The first group contains words expressing various degrees of grief; the second, joy; the third, religious fervor; the fourth, love; the fifth, patriotism. These general emotional reactions are designated by Brother Cornwall as the five universal moods. There are certain passive moods; such as, serenity, contentment, meditation and contemplation, which do not seem to partake of any of these active emotions. In most songs it will be found that the mood does not remain the same throughout. It will then be necessary to find a word: to express the mood of each verse, or each line, or even each phrase. The important point is that the emotion to be expressed must be determined exactly enough to be defined by a word or phrase. Only by so doing can the conductor discover a starting-point from which to begin working out his interpretation of the composition. The listener's reaction to the music is controlled largely by four things: The tempo (speed), the dynamics (softness or loudness), the words he hears, and the conditions under which he has heard the piece before. The first two are affected by emotional content in many ways. Sheology and SJestimony Lesson 6 Paul the Missionary?First Missionary Journey HELPFUL REFERENCES F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. XIX ff. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, chs. VI-VIII. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, chs. V-X. J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, chs. VI ff. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. XIII-XX VIII. PAUL GOES TO THE GENTILES.?When Saul and Barnabas returned from their mission to Jerusalem, they brought with them John Mark. (Acts 12:25) In Antioch there were "prophets and teachers," so Luke informs us. (Acts 13:1) The name of Barnabas heads the list and Saul's comes at the end. This may be accidental, but it is quite probable that Barnabas, who was older than Saul and better known to the Church Authorities than the erstwhile Pharisee, was his senior in the work at Antioch. "As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away." (Acts 13:2, 3) This passage, like so many in the Bible, is tantalizing. Many details we should like to know are missing. Who is meant by "they" in the above passage? Does it mean the "prophets and teachers' named in verse 1 exclusive of Barnabas and Saul, or, as some think, does it include other men in authority who came down from Jerusalem? (Compare Acts 11:27,28) The last possibility seems unlikely, for Luke would probably have given their names. What office in the Priesthood did Barnabas and Saul hold? It is not probable they were apostles, for though they are called such in Acts 14:4, 14 it is only in the etymological sense of "one sent". Furthermore, had they been apostles in the sense of being members of the Twelve the procedure outlined in Acts 13:3 would likely have taken place in Jerusalem under the direction of Peter and his associates. Barnabas and Paul (now given his Roman name by Luke in Acts 13:9, 13) gave a wonderful account of themselves in their missionary journey together. Young John Mark deserted them at Perga in Pamphylia and returned to Jerusalem. Paul did not forgive him for a long period of time. We rather suspect that Mark found the going too hard and difficult for a young, inexperienced man. The First Missionary Journey took the two missionaries to Cyprus, Perga in Pamphylia, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 843 Antioch in Pisidia, Iconium in the same district as Antioch, Lycaonia, Lystra, and Derbe. On their return to Antioch, they had a wonderful story to tell. In truth, they had had more adventures on this first mission than most ordinary men would wish for in a lifetime. They could report in general that the Jews rejected their message, but that God "had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles". (Acts 14:27) PAUL FACES THE JUDAIZERS.?It_ will be remembered that when Peter opened the Gospel doors to the Gentiles he immediately met opposition from the "Circumcision," Jews who had joined the Church but who still believed that certain rites of the Mosaic Law should be adhered to. (Acts 10:45- 47; 11:1-18) At that time, it didn't take much to quiet the opposition, but with the passage of time the Gentiles came into the Church in great numbers and the "Circumcision" or "Judaizers'" began to be alarmed. 'They sent representatives as far north as Antioch "teaching the brethren, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved." (Acts 15:1) Such doctrine raised the righteous wrath of Paul and Barnabas, who immediately objected to the dissemination of it among the people. The problem became such a debated one that it was finally found necessary for the authorities in Antioch to send Paul, Barnabas, and others to Jerusalem "to the apostles and elders" (Acts 15:2) for the purpose of finding a solution to it. The brethren passed through Phoenicia and Samaria "declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren". Paul and Barnabas were welcomed in Jerusalem where they reported their activities. 'The apostles and elders then came together to discuss the merits of the claims made by the Judaizers. (Acts 15:5) Peter recounted how the Gentiles were to receive the Gospel and the Holy Spirit on even terms with the Jews. Then Barnabas and Paul arose and told of their remarkable experiences among the Gentile peoples. James also arose and after quoting the Scriptures said "Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them which from among the Gentiles are turned to God; But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood." (Acts 15:19, 20) The discourse of James seemed to settle the matter, and it was decided to send men back with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas and Silas. The two latter had letters giving the decision of the Jerusalem conference to read to the people of Antioch. This letter was delivered and read in due time to the great joy of the people. Paul and Barnabas were completely victorious over the Judaizers. It should not be supposed that the latter had had no opportunity at the conference in Jerusalem to present their side of the problem. Acts 15: 7 mentions the fact that there had been "much discussion" or perhaps better "much questioning." The whole controversy aroused great interest in the ancient church. In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord makes mention of the fact that "in the days of the apostles the law of 844 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE circumcision was had among all the Jews who believed not the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it came to pass that there arose a great contention among the people concerning the law of circumcision." (D. & C. 74:2, 3.) The complete revelation indicates that unbelieving parents whose mates were members of the Church might cause trouble in a family because they would want their children subjected to the rites of the law of Moses. In that event the children would give way to the old traditions and refuse the gospel, wherein they became unholy. The advice of Paul, so the revelation says, was for believers not to yoke themselves to unbelievers, unless the law of Moses was to be done away among them. This modern revelation indicates what an important problem the Judaizers gave the ancient Church of Christ. Paul's letter to the Galatians (2:11-21) gives other sidelights on the ancient problem that are extremely interesting to us because of the clash of important personalities. PAUL BREAKS WITH BARNABAS.?After the meeting held with the saints at Antioch, in which the decision of the Jerusalem conference had been read, Paul and Barnabas continued to preach among the people. But the restless nature of Paul asserted itself again, and he was anxious to go on another journey to visit the people among whom they had previously labored. 'This was satisfactory to Barnabas, but he purposed to take with them John Mark who had deserted the missionaries in Pamphylia on their other missionary journey. Paul sharply demurred, and the two men separated. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. We never hear of Paul and Barnabas working together again, though at a later date the former pleasantly alludes to the good work of Barnabas. (See I Cor. 9:6) Paul chose Silas to go with him, and the two visit Syria, Cilicia, Derbe and Lystra. At the latter place Paul picked up Timothy as a helper and companion to aid in the work. The missionaries continued their journey leaving copies of the decision of the Jerusalem council in the cities they visited. (Acts 16:4.) They proceeded through Phrygia and Galatia but were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to go into Asia. (Acts 16:6) PAUL GOES TO EUROPE.? Paul and Silas continued their journey to the western coast of Asia Minor bordering on the Aegean Sea. Here they stopped at the city of Troas. It was while at this place that Paul had a vision by night. As Professor A. T. Robertson has said, "Paul had visions at great crises in his ministry." Such is usually the case with great prophets. Luke describes Paul's vision as follows: "And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; there stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, "Come over into Macedonia, and help us." (Acts 16:9.) 'This vision was destined to change the history of Europe and yet the telling of it occupies but one verse in our New Testament. "One can but wonder what might have been the result if Paul had not pushed on to Troas, but had turned back to Cappadocia and Pontus, to Armenia and Babylonia, to India and China. Others might in time have carried the gospel westward, as some did to Rome. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 845 But if the stamp of Paul were removed from Macedonia, Achaia, and Rome, Christian history would not have run the same course." So comments Professor Robertson. It appears that Luke went over into Macedonia with Paul, Silas, and Timothy, for of a sudden the narrative is told in the first person plural. "And when he had seen the vision, straightway we sought to go forth into Macedonia concluding that God had called us to preach the good news to them." (Acts 16:10) We are not told the circumstances under which Luke joined the party. It has been concluded by some scholars that this "beloved physician" (Col. 4:14) may have helped to save Paul's life during his sickness in Galatia. (Gal. 4:13) However, this is purely speculative, and we can not be sure of its correctness. Luke is a very important New Testament character because of his writings, and it is well for us to observe his methods of reporting. Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Tell some of the most interesting things that happened on Paul's First Missionary Journey. (Acts 13, 14) 2. Study Paul's sermon in Acts 13:16-47 from the point of view of time, audience, place, adaptation to a difficult situation, etc. 3. Make a little study of a number of Joseph Smith's visions and revelations and see if, like Paul's, they came at crises in his ministry. 4. Procure, if possible, a map showing the course of Paul's four missionary journeys and have some one point out the provinces and countries visited. Estimate the distance covered, the hazards he encountered, etc. Compare missionary work today with that of Paul's day. 5. Read Acts 15 and compare with D. And C. 74. Pronouncing Vocabulary Perga (P?r-ga) Pamphylia (Pam-phyl'-i-a) Pisidia (Pi-sid'-i-a) Iconium (1-c6n'-i-tim) Lycaonia (Ly-ca-6'-ni-a) Lystra (Lys'-tra) Derbe (D?r'-b?) Troas (Tr6'-as) Cappadocia (Cap-pa-d6'-ci-a ) Achaia (A-ka'-ya) > Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 6 Giving "Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver."?II Cor. 9:7. ONE of the most essential conditions for moral and spiritual growth is for a person to lose himself in the service of a great cause, a cause that far transcends the individual. This principle is emphasized 846 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in that notable saying of Jesus, "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." (Mark 8:35) The truth of this statement is verified in the experience of those who forsake all to become messengers of salvation to those who have not heard the gospel of Christ. It has been the history of missionary work in both ancient and modern times that the missionary loses thought of himself, his own personal comfort, and in some cases even his own life, that he may bring salvation to others. It is under these circumstances that he realizes his own highest and best self. On the other hand, the man who hoards his possessions and to whom _ the thought of giving to one in need or to help advance a great public cause is distasteful is one who makes himself most miserable. 'Those who do give but only with the expectation of receiving at least an equivalent in return are courting disappointment -? and can in no wise realize the joy of giving. "Give without recompense" and in return you will realize the spiritual uplift that always follows such giving. The Apostle Paul has preserved for us one of the most notable sayings of Jesus, one not recorded in the gospels. In one of the Apostle's sermons recorded in Acts 20:35, he says, "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." Certainly it is more blessed to be able to give than to be in need of receiving. 'This is true whether our gifts are material or spiritual. Discussion 1. What should be uppermost in one's mind in responding to calls for Church service? 2. What may we give other than material gifts to enrich the lives of others? 3. In what spirit should tithing and other offerings to the Church be given? Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 6 Les Miserables FOLLOWING Jean Valjean's escape from the galleys, he keeps his promise to the departed, and rescues Fantine's child, little Cosette, from the cruel Thenardiers, the dishonest, sordid innkeepers to whom her mother had entrusted her. The story of the pathetic plight of the little waif and the brutality with which she is treated presents a picture of dramatic intensity. From the chance meeting of the child with Jean Valjean on the road, the story of Christmas and the doll, to the final departure from the inn, one knows that little Cosette will never RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 847 be without a protector again, "But as he was fifty-five and Cosette was but eight years old, all that he might have felt of love in his entire life melted into a sort of ineffable radiance. This was the second white vision he had seen. The Bishop had caused the dawn of virtue on his horizon; Cosette evoked the dawn of love.... Who knows that Jean Valjean was not on the point of becoming discouraged and falling back to evil ways? Love came and he again grew strong. Alas! He was no less feeble than Cosette. He protected her and she gave strength to him. Thanks to him she could walk upright in life, thanks to her he could persist in virtuous deeds. He was the support of this child and-this child was his prop and staff. Oh, divine and unfathomable mystery of the compensations of Destiny!" Cosette grows into a beautiful and loving girl, thoroughly devoted to her benefactor whom she 'knows as Father Fauchelevent who practices __ the art of a gardener, which was his original trade, and though he lives a hunted life, he continues his acts of mercy and generosity to everyone he meets. He comes to be known "the beggar who gives alms". Many touching scenes from the streets of Paris, hospital wards, the halls, gardens and classrooms of the convent are related, and Valjean meets many strange acquaintances. Javert continues to be his evil shadow. There is a great mass of material included in this remarkable novel which may seem to have but slight connection with the narrative, but it is immensely valuable as a social record of the time; Victor Hugo was the spokesman of public opinion ?the interpreter of public feeling. In these dissertations he presents the characters animated by the spirit of the struggle out of which emerged modern France. While the plot of the novel is quite involved, it is very consistently and harmoniously developed to its conclusion. The great romance of the story centers in the love of Cosette and Baron Marius Pontmercy. In the character of Marius, who is in every sense a worthy young man, a fine opportunity is offered for the author to express his own patriotic fervor and devotion to ideals. Marius is just what one imagines Victor Hugo to have been as a young man. The life of Cosette and Jean Valjean together is a beautiful picture, but in addition to the evil shadow of Javert there is the infamous innkeeper who has seen Valjean and Cosette and continues to devise some vicious scheme for blackmail. There is a very distinct suggestion of retributive justice, or punishment, perhaps, in the fate of the innkeepers' daughters and the love and security which surround Cosette now they are grown. On the love of Marius and Cosette there is one shadow? Marius distrusts and dislikes Jean Valjean who is keenly sensitive to this fact, but he is determined that nothing, which he can prevent, shall mar the happiness of his beloved. The story of the family of Marius, his father and his grandfather, involves many pages of French history, but the part which concerns Marius directly is the account of the Paris barricades erected against the government of Louis Philippe. Marius participates in this protest of young republicanism. In the chapters which 848 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tell of these events and characters and the conflicting forces at work, every art of a master novelist is brought into play to reach the mighty climax. Jean Valjean goes to the scene to protect one he knows to be dear to Cosette, and here he comes face to face with Javert, who in the performance of his duties as a police officer has come to the scene of trouble, where he is taken prisoner. Marius recognizes Valjean but has no idea of why he is there. In the affair of the barricade Jean Valjean is designated as ''a man who saves others'. It is the intention of the insurgents to kill the prisoners they have taken, especially Javert the spy?as he appeared to them. Jean Valjean makes but one request, that is to execute Javert. This is granted. The chapter entitled "Jean Valjean Takes His Revenge" is one of the greatest climaxes in fiction. Javert who has so ruthlessly hunted Jean Valjean through his whole life, is now in his power; instead of killing Javert, whom he takes into a side street, he cuts his bonds and tells him to go, at the same time discharging his pistol to make it appear he has carried out the execution. Marius shudders as he hears it. During the narrative of. The barricade, the author expresses his feelings for France and her people?a beautiful, glowing, patriotic tribute to the grandeur and glory of his native land. The barricade is certain to fail, but Jean Valjean has one fixed purpose in remaining there and that is to save Marius. 'The manner in which he does this by carrying the wounded, unconscious young man through the sewers of Paris is perhaps the best known episode in the book. The horror and minute detail of the description of the sewer is realism equalling anything ever written by the greatest of the school of realism, but it is treated in Hugo's-romantic style. Phelps says, "Victor Hugo writes of the sewers of Paris with superbly picturesque eloquence." The final meeting of Javert and Jean Valjean occurs on the banks of the river in the early morning, as Valjean reaches it with Marius, still unconscious. Valjean tells Javert that he will surrender himself if only Javert will help him to get Marius home. 'This is accomplished. Valjean makes one more request and that is to be permitted to go home for a moment. This Javert grants, but when Jean Valjean returns to meet Javert as agreed, he is gone.. The chapter "Javert Off the Track" is another fine piece of psychological analysis. 'The conflict which rages in the mind of the official who is placed between his professional duty of arresting an offender and the moral and sentimental impulse to save the man who has saved him is so fierce that it tears his whole scheme of life up by the roots until he can see no way out but suicide. Marius recovers, and Valjean arranges for the marriage, concealing Cosette's ignoble birth and setting upon her his fortune of six hundred thousand francs. "'Cosette has Marius, Marius possesses Cosette. 'They have everything, even riches. And it is his work." Then comes the supreme struggle and sacrifice of his life: "Jacob wrestled with the angel but one night. Alas! How many times have we seen Jean Valjean clenched, body to body, in the darkness with his con- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 849 science, and wrestling desperately against it.... And, after having racked, torn and broken him, his conscience, standing above him, formidable, luminous, tranquil, said to him, 'Now, go in peace!' "' Jean Valjean fully senses the distrust and dislike which he knows Marius feels for him, so he decides to leave, though he knows it will break his heart to be separated from Cosette. One of the most tragic and pathetic chapters in the novel is the one relating the interview with Marius, when Valjean reveals that he is not Cosette's father and that he has served a long term in the galleys, in fact, that he is even now an escaped convict. He has decided to withdraw from their lives so that no shadow will fall on the life of Cosette. This recital is exquisitely done. Marius and Cosette are supremely happy in their love for each other, but Marius is seriously disturbed by some facts. He does not care to use the money given them by Valjean, for he fears it has not been honestly obtained. There are two men to whom he feels immeasurably indebted, one is the prowler who has, nevertheless, saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, on the field of Waterloo; the other is the man who carried him through the sewer following the barricade. He persists in trying to find them so that he might acknowledge his debt of gratitude. The conversation in which Marius tells Jean Valjean of what this man really did, as he rescued him and carried him through the sewer to safety, is drama of the type that only Victor Hugo could write; throughout the entire recital Valjean keeps silent. THE last book in this great novel brings it to a most consistent and artistic conclusion, "Supreme Shadow, Supreme Dawn". The analysis of the conduct of Marius and Cosette is a fine bit of human philosophy, so tolerant and true to life. Theirs was the "ingratitude of nature" and sheer happiness in each other. The interview of the innkeeper and Marius is perhaps the major climax of the story. It tells Marius the identity of the two men he most wishes to find. The innkeeper has the fine cunning of the real criminal. He is certain of the identity of Cosette and Jean Valjean. He knows that Valjean has impoverished himself to provide for Cosette. Marius is the logical person to approach in the blackmail scheme. Marius is convinced that he is dealing with a crook of the lowest order, but he discovers also that the innkeeper is the man who saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, after the battle of Waterloo, though bent upon the lowest of all errands, robbing the dead! The innkeeper tells Marius that he has information which proves Valjean to be a robber and murderer. Marius announces that he is aware of this, that Valjean years ago robbed Monsieur Madeleine, and that he killed Javert. The innkeeper produces evidence to disprove both of these charges. He shows that Valjean is without doubt Madeleine himself and that Javert committed suicide, but he tells Marius that Valjean is an assassin. In proof of this, he confesses that he was in the sewer following the barricade and saw Valjean carrying a man whom he had undoubtedly murdered. He produces a piece of cloth torn from the 850 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coat of the murdered man. It fits exactly into that worn by Marius. It is impossible to imagine a more dramatic scene. Quite contrary to what he had intended, the innkeeper wipes from the mind of Marius the last shadow from the character of Jean Valjean. He stands revealed, the noblest work of God?a character glorified by sacrifice and suffering. Valjean is dying when Cosette and Marius reach him. They are not too late to receive his blessing. He tells Cosette the name of her mother: "Her name was Fantine. Remember that name, Fantine; fall on your knees whenever you pronounce it. She suffered much and loved you much." To Cosette he bequeathed the two silver candlesticks which he always kept with him. "They are silver; but to me they are gold, they are diamond; they change the candles which are put in them into consecrated tapers. I do not know whether he who gave them to me is satisfied with me in heaven. I have done what I could." This great novel is not only "a good story well told," it belongs to the beautiful in literature. Living types are reproduced?all human emotions are faithfully depicted, the fine touches in dialogue, the matchless descriptions, the powerful scenes in history, all these could come only from the pen of a genius such as Victor. Hugo. When the book appeared nearly eighty years ago, a preface accompanied it which is quite as appropriate today: "So long as there shall exist, by reason of law and custom, a social condemnation, which, in the face of civilization, 'artificially creates hells on earth, and complicates a destiny _ that is divine, with human fatality; so long as the three problems of the age?the degradation of man by poverty, the ruin of women by starvation, and the dwarfing of childhood by physical and spiritual night?are not solved; so long as, in certain regions, social asphyxia shall be possible; in other words, and from a yet more extended point of view, so long as ignorance and misery remain on earth, books like this cannot be useless." Questions and Suggestions 1. Justify the statement that Les Miserables takes its place in the front ranks of the world's best fiction. 2. Compare the love of Jean Valjean for Cosette, and of Marius and Cosette. 3. What do you consider some of the greatest climaxes in the book? Justify your choice. 4. Why is Les Miserables a_romantic novel? A realistic novel? A psychological novel? 5. Give reasons for classing Les Miserables "a great human document" and a great "social register'. Social Service Lesson 6 Psychology of Personal Efficiency I. WHAT DO WE MEAN BY "WILL POWER"? We probably seldom realize how much waste there is of human ability and energy because of poor management of ourselves. William James once said, "We all have the habit of inferiority of our full self. As a rule, men habitually use only a small part of the powers which they actually possess. Everyone knows the feeling of being more or less alive on different days. Compared with what we ought to be we are only half awake. Our fires are damped, our drafts are checked. We are making use of only a small part of our possible mental and physical resources. 'The human individual thus lives usually far within his limits." Formerly, we were taught that we had a faculty called the "will", which we called upon in order to get ourselves down to work or to do anything against the resistance of our own inertia. We thought of "will" as a free agent which was unfettered by our past experiences and habits, something which would aid us to "pick ourselves up by the boot straps" and to do something distinctly above any previous performance. Recent psychology has taught us that "will" is probably simply our ability to do tasks at any given time, and it grows as we succeed in doing what we try to do against resistance. The ability to attack and to accomplish relatively new and difficult tasks grows by our doing that kind of thing. The person we usually speak of as successful is he who has this ability to take a course of action and to pursue it to a definite goal in spite of obstacles. President Heber J. Grant has stated this view in this widely quoted statement: "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the task changes, but that our ability to do increases." The same truth has been put in another way: "The law of nature is: Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power." (Quoted by Brande, D., Wake Up and Live, p. 85.) We sometimes speak of "will" as the habit of success. From everyday experience, we know that the habit of success makes further accomplishments easier. 'This habit grows out of the confidence we build from past successes and is sometimes spoken of as self-confidence. Reflect for a moment upon what runs through your mind when you are confronted with a task, which you later succeed in accomplishing. You probably think back on some similar task which you accomplished. You take courage or confidence from the previous success, and this attitude itself aids you in the new undertaking. Not only do you bring a favorable attitude from the past experience but also some skill which you acquired from wrestling with the previous situation. The attitude of confidence and the greater power to do, which grow out of past successes, are what we mean by the habit of success, self- 852 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE confidence, or "will power". The joy of past achievement makes us hungry for further successes and adds power and direction to our daily efforts. We have just described the habit of success, but we often find its opposite, the habit of failure. How does the habit of failure grow? It grows simply by a person making the wrong reaction to his mistakes and failures and doing so repeatedly until that becomes his characteristic way of meeting difficulties. The person who is the victim of the habit of failure has an unpleasant recollection of all of his past defeats, his past failure to acquire the power and skill to do, just as the person with the habit of success can recall pleasantly his past achievements. The joy of feeling successful leads one to put forth effort to accomplish new things, but the feeling of being defeated makes one want to quit the struggle. The dangerous side of the habit of failure is that it breeds more failures. As a person becomes progressively less capable of exerting a good effort, he fails more and more often. These multiplied failures continually reduce the chances of success, and the victim is caught in a vicious circle out of which he can climb only by persistent practicing of the opposite habit of success. Sometimes a great shock or crisis in one's life produces a "re-birth" which is the starting point for a new fighting spirit which failures cannot defeat. II. MOTIVES ARE ACTIVITIES ALREADY STARTED. Conduct is much like a rolling snowball: After it once starts in a direction, it is much easier to keep it going and increasing than it is to start it in the first place. Woodworth, one of our most able psychologists, says that a motive is simply an activity already started. Thus, a man who has set out upon a certain career is carried along by his own momentum, or a person who forms the habit of going to Church has a motive to continue simply because that has become his way of life. We all know that any difficult task brings forth effort more easily after once started than when we are making the original start. In fact, so long as we seem to be progressing toward a goal, we often find it difficult to stop, even when another task should be done. Children who have started playing house often hate to stop for dinner even when hungry, simply because the activity itself builds up a motive to continue which is stronger than hunger. Of course, other activities and needs of the individual eventually interrupt, and we may find it necessary to stop. It is helpful to choose a stopping point at which it will be easy to get started when we return to the task. This doctrine of motivation has important practical applications. Many times we lose our motivation because we meet some minor failure or some difficulty which forces a temporary halt to our progress. Unless we habitually put forth greater effort at these points of difficulty in order to keep our progress running along, the motivation dies out with the letting up of activity. The person with good mastery of his powers, when confronted with a difficulty, may "let up" for the moment but only until his mental activity leads him to a more successful attack, which starts progress again. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 853 The person with the habit of failure breaks down at these points?that is, his very habit of failure prevents him from keeping himself motivated at the critical time. When he lets the activity stop and the motivation die out, he has the greatest difficulty getting down to work again. Probably characters are largely shaped by the early habits children build up in their manner of meeting obstructions. A general style of living may be formed early in life of putting forth additional effort or of making repeated attempts at crucial moments when motivation is threatened. Likewise, a habit of defeatism may be acquired early and may be a life-long blight on one's character. One more point should be mentioned in this connection. The person who is active, who continually tries to succeed, naturally increases his knowledge and skill. Even though many of his efforts fail, he is by his persistent efforts learning and growing in ability to do. He who withdraws from the fight learns nothing and therefore does not grow more capable of succeeding next time he tries. III. BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES FOR SUCCESS. 'The habit of failure does strange tricks to its victims. For one thing, we may accept shoddy substitutes for the success we fail to achieve. The wolf who said the grapes he could not reach were sour grapes had probably never heard of a ladder. We make similar excuses for not making intelligent efforts to overcome obstacles. We often delude ourselves into thinking the fruits of work are probably not worth the effort. As middle and later life overtakes us, it is easy to begin to live in the past, to be satisfied with thinking of successes of our younger days rather than making the most of our future. - Dreaming becomes a substitute for constructive imagination. Brande has this to say in speaking of "the bad old habit of dreaming the world into a different shape while life slips away": "It is this idea which must be held firmly in mind: That the test of whether or not one is dreaming or imagining correctly is whether or not action follows mental work. Any mental activity which turns backward for longer than it takes to correct a mistake and to replace an unsatisfactory habit with a good one, is minus and cannot be continued if you hope to lead a fuller life." (Brande, Dorothea, Wake Up and Live, p. 111.) The hobbies and diversions a person has may be either a valuable release from effective work, refreshing and recreating the worker, or they may be a retreat or substitute for success in one's more serious undertakings. For example, sometimes a person finds a substitute success in doing fine handwork which takes the place of being a good home manager. A business man who falls short of what he expects of himself may write poems which gain some recognition and give him a substitute satisfaction for his failure to make a genuine success of his business. Moving picture shows, while generally wholesome diversions, are used by some people as a make-believe world which substitutes for the satisfaction of living life well in reality. All serious-minded people should cultivate hobbies and diversions for the purpose of increasing efficiency, not to substitute for it. 854 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IV. HOW SHALL I PLAN MY WORK? To make work easier to get at and stick to we should provide -certain conditions. First of all, we may easily form the habit of doing certain work at a certain place at a certain time. If this habit has been established, we conserve much of the wasted energy of deciding each time what to do, where to do it, and when to do it. This habit is especially valuable in doing those tasks that must be done but which are not pleasant in themselves. Many housewives go through the unpleasantness of routine duties two or three times before actually doing them, simply because they lack orderly time and place work habits. 'There is joy in the success of not letting little unpleasant duties take up too much of your life, and orderly habits are necessary for this achievement. A further aid to getting at a task we are inclined to shun is to prepare all materials in advance, say the night before, so that when the time comes there are no preparations to make, and the activity can be started immediately. Previous preparation often removes the possibility of "dilly-dallying" while preparing to work until we think of a good excuse for doing something else. Then there is the question of distractions, if our task is an intellectual one such as studying, planning a speech or program, or writing a poem. How distractions affect us is a matter of habit also. If we have done intellectual work in the presence of distractions, such as children or the radio playing, these distractions finally have little effect on us. A person who habitually works under conditions of this kind may even be distracted by the silence if there are no distractions. Under some circumstances we actually concentrate better with some distractions because we exert more effort. At any rate, distractions of a mild character are not a good excuse for fail- _ure to concentrate. This is a matter to be studied for ourselves. So far as possible work conditions that suit us individually should be provided. Fatigue has already been mentioned as an influence which may affect work. We must learn to distinguish true fatigue from the "desire to be tired" in order to get out of work. 'True fatigue is often less unpleasant than the other kind. Efficiency is affected, however, by fatigue, and we should include ample rest in any work program. Short rest periods during working hours are often found to increase output of work. But rest is not the only way to overcome fatigue. Work produces certain toxic substances in the blood which are distributed to all parts of the body and have some effect on the whole, even though coming only from the certain parts being used directly in work. However, fatigue is also specific to some extent; that is, the parts of the body most directly used become the most fatigued. For example, if we have been on our feet at one kind of work, our output of work at a task at which we sit is not greatly affected. The practical suggestion from this is to plan our schedule so that different kinds of work will be alternated in such a way as to reduce extreme fatigue of any particular organs. Rotate the tasks, allow for changes in order to avoid fatigue and boredom. This means planning for leisure time activities, too, for this part of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 855 a work plan is as important as any other. A properly planned work program, by the contrast of work followed by play, makes play take on a new delight. Since play is a release from routine and work, how can anyone who has no plan or who is lazy get the most out of play? A final practical suggestion is that if we have difficulty getting down to work, we should plan tasks which we are certain to accomplish with reasonable effort?neither too hard nor too easy. If we have already acquired the habit of failure, this is the only way back to the road to success. Hosking in Human Nature and Its Remaking has said in this connection: "Education consists of supplying the halted mind with a method of work and some examples of success. 'There are few more beautiful miracles than that which can be wrought by leading a despairing child into a trifling success; and there are few difficulties whose principle cannot be embodied in such simple form that success is at once. Easy and revealing. And by increasing the difficulty by serial stages, the small will, under the cumulative excitement of repeated and mounting success, may find itself far beyond the obstacle that originally checked it." Part of the great task of living is to take accurate measure of our personal equipment and to gauge our tasks to our capacity. Naturally, we all make mistakes in estimating what we can do, but when we see our task is too much for us we should not develop the failure attitude; we should apply more energy and use better judgment in attacking our problems or else build our strength and confidence through tasks more within our reach. Which of the two methods to follow depends upon "what manner of man" we are; that is, what our past successes have been. Problems for Discussion 1. What do we mean by "will power'?. 2. Study your own reactions to defeat or failure. Are they usually inclined to make you exert more effort or less effort in overcoming obstacles? 3. How is the habit of success cultivated, assuming that it is not very well developed in us now that we are adults? 4. What practical aids do you use in making it easier to get your household routine done? 5. Show how "keeping the ball rolling" makes your work easier. References 1. Brande, Dorothea. Wake Up and Live, New York: Simon and Schuster, 1936. P. 198. Popular and stimulating style. 2. James, William. On Vital Reserves, New York: Henry Holt, 1911. See pp. 6-7 particularly, most of the remainder will be found interesting and stimulating. 3. Morgan, J. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, New York: Macmillan, 1934, See pp. 136-168, 362-384. Written for beginning college students. 4. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 193-234. Semitechnical discussion of factors affecting efficiency. Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 6 My Parents Do Not Know Me IS it possible for the members of one generation to understand and be sympathetic with the problems of the members of another generation? To what extent do parents think they know their children? To what extent do children think they know their parents? To what extent do children think their parents know them? If we had satisfactory answers to these questions, we would have at least a starting point in our attempt to cope with one of the most important phases of family relationships; namely, the parent-child relation. We do have sufficient first-hand evidence to convince us that the majority of young men and women of high school and college age think that their parents do not know them and do not understand the problems with which the young people of today are confronted. Whether or not the young folk are correct in their thinking we cannot say, but they do offer a quantity of concrete evidence to justify their opinion. This fact is of vital importance to adults who desire to know the younger generation. Only to the extent that parents are acquainted with the ideas that children have concerning the parentchild relation is it possible for parents to understand the behavior of their children, since it is what we think is true that influences our attitudes and actions. A sixteen-year-old daughter, who was the pride and joy of her parents, overheard her mother discussing with a friend the great difficulties, problems, and responsibilities involved in rearing children today in comparison with those of earlier periods. Unfortunately, the daughter heard only a fragment of the discussion from which she drew the conclusion that she was a great burden to her parents, that her parents did not love her as she had thought they did, and that her mother had never wanted her. Such an idea was in absolute contradiction to the real situation. However, from the time of the incident the daughter's attitude toward her parents, particularly toward her mother, changed almost completely. She became less sociable, less talkative, took on an attitude of indifference, spent as little time as possible in the home and in the presence of her mother; however, she showed deliberate consideration and an undue amount of impersonal respect toward both parents. The mental conflict for the daughter became so intense that she finally decided to confide in one of her teachers. During the course of the conversation, the girl confessed that she knew she would never recover from the shock she had experienced when she learned that her parents did not love her and that her mother had never wanted her; therefore, she had decided to leave home as soon as possible and try to forget her parents. After a number of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 857 conferences, the girl reluctantly gave consent for the teacher to talk over the situation with the mother. It was with no little difficulty that the father and mother, with the assistance of the teacher, were able to convince the daughter that her concept of the situation was all wrong; that the true situation was as the daughter had always wished it to be, one of love, affection and devotion on the part of her parents. In all of our human relationships it is not enough to acquaint ourselves with the facts of a situation, but we must also be aware of what the other person thinks the facts to be. This is of special importance in successful parent-child relationships. Frequently, the roots of unsatisfactory parent-child relations lie in the attitudes of the parents toward the child and in the lack of mutual understanding of the attitudes of parents and child. Hornell Hart suggests that there are four different fundamental attitudes taken toward children, with corresponding different emotional and behavior results: The first of these is to regard the child as an obstacle, an irritant, or a nuisance; the second is to regard it as something to be exploited, as an economic asset, as an object for the exercise of his craving for power and authority, as a means of vicarious display or vicarious fulfillment of thwarted ambitions, or as a love-object to gratify parental emotions; the third is to consider it as a responsibility; the fourth is to regard it as a bundle of potentialities to be developed. Sound parenthood must take account of whatever is valid in all of the above four attitudes. The first step in promoting successful parent-child relations is for the parent to frankly face his own attitudes and purposes with regard to his child. It is necessary for the parent to realize integration of his own purposes as well as integration of purposes between parents before there can be integration between parents and child. The next essential is for the parent to have an understanding of the purposes and possibilities of the child. During the early years of the child's life the foundation must be laid if mutual understanding between parents and child is to be experienced during later years. Furthermore, confidence and sympathetic understanding can be attained only as the result of conscientious effort, untiring patience, and the constant demonstration of the practical application of the fundamental principles of personal integrity on the part of the parents. Now let us turn our attention to a few of the most common mistakes which parents make that result in the hindrance of the development of confidence and understanding between parents and child. 1. Parents attempt to be one of the young folk instead of being one with them. A forty-year-old parent cannot be as a twenty-year-old child unless the parent has not matured in a normal way. Twenty-year-olds appreciate parents who have a reasonable amount of dignity, superior judgment, who exercise self-control; yet, who have not become so old, socially and psychologically, that they cannot appreciate and under- *Hart, Hornell, Science of Social Relations. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1927, Chapter XVIII. 858 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stand the point of view of the younger generation. 2. Many parents practice deceit and other forms of dishonesty in their relations with their children. Wise parents are aware of the difficulty of successfully bluffing young people of today who are, as a rule, very sensitive and responsive to sincerity. 3. Parents ask too many questions concerning unimportant details in the hope that the child will form the habit of telling his parents everything. Few individuals, young or old, care to tell everything. What parents should strive for is to build up desirable attitudes and habits so that the child will come voluntarily to his parents when he has a problem to solve or a unique situation to meet. 4. Parents set themselves up as examples to their children rather than to select some noble and praiseworthy character whom both parent and child could profitably emulate. The second practice would give the child an opportunity to discover for himself the similarity between his parent and the ideal. When the parent sets himself up as an ideal, the child feels that there is too great a gap between the two, and thus he sees no basis for mutual understanding. 5. Parents worry over too many relatively trivial things. In such cases the child usually takes an attitude of toleration and paternalism toward his parents. He feels that he should protect his parents from unnecessary worry by not telling them anything that can be kept. "What Dad and Mom don't know won't? Worry them," is a common expression of young folk. 6. Parents too often are so steeped in their own problems that they fail to realize that what to them may seem a minor problem is to the young person a major catastrophe. Is there a mother who cannot remember what a tragedy it seemed to her at the age of eighteen not to be asked for a dance by the one man whom she secretly admired most of all? Or is there a father who cannot recall the time when the most important thing. In life to him was to have money with which to purchase a red heart box of candy on Valentine Day for the one and only girl; how he felt when his father only laughed and told him if the girl liked him the candy was not necessary, and if she did not like him he would be silly to spend money on her? Whatever the young person considers to be important at any particular time should be treated with the utmost dignity, respect and confdence by adults. OW to turn our attention to question number four which was presented at the beginning of our lesson. Based upon the discussions of an average group of young people who expressed themselves frankly on the subject as to whether or not their parents know them, we submit the following opinions: The majority of young people do not discuss problems with their parents unless they think that their parents will learn the information from other sources. Young people do discuss problems concerning sex and love affairs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 859 with married siblings and with intimate friends of their own sex. Frequently, problems are taken to the mother of a friend because, "she understands my problems and is more sympathetic than my own mother would be, and she doesn't worry about me." Fathers are consulted about problems concerning money matters more generally than are mothers. Mothers are consulted about problems concerning human relations more generally than are fathers. Minor automobile accidents are not reported to parents if the resulting damage to the car can be erased without being found 'out; or in case of a fine, if the fine can be paid without help from parents. 'This practice is due to the fear that in the future the child will be denied the use of the car if parents know there has been an accident. Information gained from young folk leads one to believe that quite frequently the child learns of minor automobile accidents experienced by one mate about which the other mate is never informed. This may explain why so many children have adopted the same practice. Now as to some of the reasons given by youth as to why parents are not consulted in the solving of problems: Fear of hurting parents. Parents do not understand conditions of today, so that anything we do that is different from what they did when they were young shocks them. Parents exaggerate the seriousness of situations. Parents think their children are better than other children, so it not only shocks them but really hurts them to know the truth about their own. Parents become so emotional when confronted with the problems of youth. Mothers cry and fathers become angry. Parents worry too much when there is no cause to worry. Because parents are opposed to their children marrying too early they seem to think that every friendship with a member of the opposite sex will result in marriage, so it is just as well not to let them know to what extent their child is interested in a member of the opposite sex. Parents have no time to bother with the problems of their grown children; they do well to provide for the material needs of their offspring. Parents uphold the double standard as far as parents and children are concerned; hence, will not accept in children what they do themselves. Once again we emphasize the fact that the above opinions represent what youth thinks is true. Probably the majority of parents would not agree with youth; if so, then it is of vital importance for every parent to help his own child see the true situation. It is equally important for the parents of young children to guard against the development of such ideas during the formative years of the. Life of the child. N conclusion, we present verbatim an example of an ideal parentchild relation as expressed in writing by somebody's child of college age. Might it have been written by your child? "To whom would I go if I were 860 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in any kind of trouble? If my parents were available, they would be the first persons I would think to consult for help and guidance. My parents have tried to instill good principles in my mind and then let me act on my own judgment. At the same time, they have always made me feel that if I were in any difficulty I would be free to come to them. My mother has always said that she has not lived her life yet and therefore does not feel as if she can censure the actions of others who may have done wrong. She has always made me feel that I would be understood if I confided in her and that she would do all in her power to help me to make a right adjustment. Father has always made us feel that home would always be the best place to come no matter what happened. "IT don't believe that we should tun to our parents with every little petty thing we do wrong. We should build our own character strong enough so we can go to ourselves, on such occasions and solve our own problems. "I know from observation and conversation that I am very fortunate to have the confidence of my parents. I think they are the best people to go to, because they try to understand and at the same time not be over-sympathetic. The problem of over-sympathetic parents is just as serious as having parents who are not willing to be bothered with the problems of their children. "Because of my fortunate relationship with my parents, I do not feel that I can fully realize the problems many young people are confronted with when they are in trouble and have no one to whom they feel free to go." Questions and Problems For Discussion 1. Give concrete examples of each of the four attitudes toward children as suggested by Hart. Reserve a period during the coming week when you and your mate can be together for the purpose of discussing your mutual attitudes toward your children. 2. What evidence can you offer from your own experience to disprove the validity of the opinions of youth with regard to the failure of parents to know their children? 3. Make a list of ten factors that you think would contribute to the establishment of the type of parentchild relation represented in the concluding quotation of the lesson. 4. Tell the class about some of the practices that you are using with your small children for the purpose of laying a foundation for mutual confidence and understanding for the future. Nhission Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 6 Organization of the Church (To be used in place of Literary lesson) LF us suppose that you have something to sell ? furniture, books, animals, or land. Let us suppose, further, that you wish someone else to sell this property for you. Now, before anyone could do that, he would first have to obtain your "authorization," as we call it. For otherwise he could not. Come to your home and say, "I'm going to sell these things whether you want me to or not." It is the same in other things that we call earthly. If someone from another country wishes to become a citizen of your nation, he cannot become such by just saying to himself, "I?m a citizen!" Nor can he do so by appearing before just anybody in that nation and be sworn in. He must make application to the proper person and go through the necessary routine. Then he is a citizen. Do you think it is any different in the matter of religion, the most important concern of human beings? The Church is often spoken of by Jesus as the Kingdom of God. Like eatthly governments it must have officers, laws, and subjects. In other words, the Kingdom of God, or the Church of Christ, like every other organization, is conducted in an orderly way. No one, therefore, has a right to organize the Church of Christ until and unless he is given the necessary authority by the Lord, either in person or through his servants. Anyone may organize a church without that authority, but it will not be the Church of Christ, and no one who belongs to it has any claim to salvation in the Kingdom of God. JOSEPH SMITH knew all this. He had been so informed in the First Vision. As you may remember, he had been told two things about the Church by our Savior himself. One of these was that the Church of Christ was not then upon the earth and that, therefore, he must not join any church in his town. The second thing was that he, Joseph, would in due time be given the authority to organize the Church of Christ again. And here it is necessary to make a distinction which is often lost sight of. A man may do good in and of himself. Fortunately for us there are many good people in every nation, and have been in every age. Also there are many organizations that are wholesome in their purpose and work. Among these are the various churches. All over the world there are churches that are helpful to their members. And so, as long as men and women in these societies are sincere and as long as the churches are helpful here and now, perhaps 862 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we should not be severe on them. But this is not the only world. There is a world of the spirit, the world of God, the world of men made perfect. That is real, too. And so when anyone organizes a church, he is supposed to get authority to do so first, and that authority can come only from God, who is the ruler of that world. No man, therefore, who establishes an order for this world alone, has any right to expect that his order will be effectual in the other world. At best, man can see but a short distance ahead. He can therefore provide for only a brief span of life. His mistakes, for this reason, will be many. But God sees life in its whole. He knows the end from the beginning. And so his plans are farreaching, complete. The laws which he establishes have the whole of life in mind, not a part of it. But he does not wish us to make use of that plan unless we are willing to follow His guidance. Hence, leaders in religion must have continual revelation?visions, if necessary. Only in this way can we feel sure that we are Carrying out what we know as the "plan of life and salvation". The sectarian churches of Joseph Smith's time, of course, did much good, just as those of today are doing. But they lack, and still lack, spiritual power. "They have a form of godliness, but deny the power of God." 'That is what the Lord told Joseph Smith, as you will remember, in the First Vision. That is, they had no divine authority, no priesthood recognized by God. Here is the whole thing in a nutshell, as we say. The churches of the Prophet's day had no saving power because they had departed from the Way, UR Prophet did not, for this reason, obtain his authority to organize the Church of Christ from any of the ministers of his time. He could not have done that because they did not have it themselves. His priesthood came direct from heaven. On the fifteenth of May, 1829, while the translation of the Book of Mormon was going on in Harmony, Pennsylvania, Joseph and Oliver went out into the woods, to pray over a matter which had come up in the Record. While they prayed, John the Baptist, of whom we read in the Gospels, appeared to them. He had been raised from. The dead. Placing 'his hands on their heads, he said, "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins." John instructed them to baptize each other and then to ordain each other to the priesthood which he had just conferred upon them. This they did. Afterwards the spirit of prophecy came upon them, and they foretold many things that would come to pass in their generation. John also told them that, in due time, the ancient apostles Peter, James, and John would confer upon them the Melchizedek priesthood. Accordingly, some time later, these apostles appeared to Joseph and Oliver, laid their hands upon the heads of the young men, and ordained them to the higher priesthood. This gave them "the keys of the kingdom and of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times." It also gave them the apostleship. 'Thus RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 863 they were empowered to act for God on the earth. They had divine authority, the priesthood. In these two visions?that of John the Baptist and of the ancient apostles?they obtained the priesthood direct from the men who held it under Christ. Any member of this Church, therefore, who holds the priesthood, can trace it back to Christ, through three of these four heavenly messengers. ACTING under this divine authority, the Prophet, with his faithful companion, proceeded to organize again the Church of Christ on the earth. It was orgafiized on. April 6, 1830, shortly after the publication of the Book of Mormon. It was on a Tuesday. Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Samuel H. Smith, and David Whitmer, with a few others, met at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., for the purpose. They were all young men. The oldest, Hyrum Smith, had just turned thirty, and the youngest, Peter Whitmer, Jr., would not be twentyone till the following September. Joseph Smith was in his twenty-fifth year. They had all been baptized before this. Baptism in their case was for the remission of sins, not for entrance into the Church. One would expect that the name of the new Church would be the "Church of Joseph Smith." But it was not. Having been instructed and authorized by the Lord himself to organize His Church again on the earth, the Prophet called it the "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." The phrase "of Latter-day Saints" distinguishes it from the Church of Jesus Christ of Former-day Saints. People who did not like the new organization often called it the "Mormon Church." But that is not its real name. Like the term "Christian," it was given in derision; its members believed in the Book of Mormon. We cannot stress too much the idea that this modern prophet, in spite of the fact that he was not schooled, held the priesthood. And he was the only one authorized to organize the true Church on the earth at the time. Hence this is the Church of Christ. Questions and Suggestions 1. If you wished to sell something and did not want to act yourself, what would you have to do? How do foreigners become citizens of your nation? 2. Name some of the officers of our Church; some of the laws; some of the ordinances. How does one become a member of our Church? 3. When, where, and by whom was our Church organized? What is its true name? Why was it called by this name? 4. Tell how Joseph Smith received the authority to organize the Church. Where else could he have got the authority? 5. Read or sing "The Morning Breaks" and explain why this hymn was chosen in connection with this lesson. Note: Map printed in July issue of Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. Magazine Drive THE 1939 Magazine Drive has been the most successful in the history of the Organization. More stakes, wards, missions and branches are listed on the Honor Roll this year than ever before. The reports, with very few exceptions, reached the office promptly and were carefully and accurately made out, which greatly facilitated the work of compiling the Honor Roll. We highly commend our energetic and capable Magazine Representatives for the splendid work they have done. Their service is of inestimable value to Relief Society. We greatly appreciate the active support of Relief Society executive officers. Realizing the importance of the work, they have whole-heartedly aided Magazine Representatives to achieve their goals. The response of our many thousands of friends the world over who are our subscribers is a source of gratitude. Careful planning, unusual cooperation, faithful energetic service has characterized the work. Increased Magazine circulation is only one of many values resulting from this activity. We are justly proud of accomplishments. HONOR ROLL FOUR HIGHEST PERCENTAGES GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or over) Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Mesa Second Maricopa 100 186 186 Lula R. Stewart Provo Fourth Utah 127 225 177 Flora Buggart Twentieth Ensign 100 165 165 Louise B. Mullett Ogden Fourth Ogden 115 136 120 Lena Hansen GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Twelfth Ensign 50 133.5 267 Elon Calderwood Harvard Liberty 99 146 200 Irene Crofts Brain Ogden Thirteenth Ogden 82 142 179 Edith Wilson Phoenix Third Phoenix 57 102 179 Grace Whipple GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Hurstville Br. Australian Mission 9 31 345 Kit Wilson Bellflower Long Beach 9 28 256 Marie E. Visser Vernon St. Johns 12 28 233 Ella L. Grau Worland Big Horn 19 43 226 Elizabeth Nielson The above receive high honors and will be presented with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine at the Relief Society General Conference, April, 1940. Ward Cedar First Lovell Hillcrest Pocatello Fifth First Lincoln Richards Seventeenth Hawthorne Salem Ward Fourteenth Dimond Mc Gill Phoenix First Mc Kay Brigham Second Columbus Layton Antimony Phoenix Second Heber Third Hooper Long Beach Sparks Twenty-first Ogden Twentieth Mesa Fourth Eighteenth North Idaho Falls Fifth Eighteenth South Gunnison Freedom Price Third Malad Second Elmhurst Twenty-seventh Ensign Draper Second University Nibley Park Liberty Tremonton First RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 865 WARDS 100% OR OVER GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or Over) Parowan 102 118 116 Big Horn 111 123 111 Grant 110 120 109 Pocatello 121 128 105 Liberty 124 128 103 Granite 113 116 103 Granite 111 114 103 Salt Lake 163 164 101 Granite 136 137 101 Palmyra 104 104 100 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Salt Lake 74 107 145 Oakland 90 128 142 Nevada 78 108 138 Phoenix 65 89 137 Wells 63 85.5 136 Box Elder 81 108 133 Wells 70 92 131 North Davis 90 115 128 Garfield 50 64 128 Phoenix 93 116 125 Wasatch 90 112 124 Weber 88 109 124 Long Beach 77 95 123 California Mission 58 71 122 Ensign 85 102 120 Ogden 89 106 119 Maricopa 79 93 118 Ensign 68 80.5 118 Idaho Falls 67 79 118 Ensign 84 98 117 Gunnison 59 67 114 Star Valley 50 57 114 Carbon 72 81 113 Malad 68 77 113 Oakland 52 60 113 Ensign 93 103.5 112 Ensign 82 92 112 East Jordan 66 74 112 Ensign 66 73 111 Granite 99 109 110 Liberty 73 80.5 110 Bear River 92 100 109 Magazine Agent Ella Holyoak Effie Tolman Viola Cahoon Jean Henderson Josephine Pett Mabel D. Flandro Irene Irvine Julia G. Miller Dorothy Miles Lettie Peterson Magazine Agent Bashua A. F. Chapman Jessie E. W. Booth Louisa Johnson Letha A. Marian Rebecca Jones Sarah H. Horsley Anna Hutchinson Grace Forbes Mary K. Riddle Camelia Gulliver Annie K. Moulton Florence Naisbet Ermina R. Joseph Merle Wade Josephine Affleck Mattie Manning Grace Burton Edith Vickers Ila Sams Hannah Watkins Orilla Wilkinson Vilate Bond Martha Brog Alzina Johnston Mary King Lavina Smithen Jeannette McArthur Ellen Smith Melissa Smith Anna C. Rich Emma Armstrong Verna Jones Dorma Brough Stake Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 866 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B?Continued Ward Thirteenth Nampa Second St. Charles Fielding Boise Third Beaver East Logan Eleventh Grace First Ogden Seventeenth Mesa First Pleasant Grove First Central Park San Francisco Ammon Preston Second Malad First Moab Park View Vernal Second Sutter Ogden Nineteenth Springville Second Eleventh Ogden Seventh Queens Le Grand Eagar Santa Monica Capitol Hill Junction Wilshire Spanish Fork Second Emigration Menan Rigby Second Highland Park Lehi First Ogden First Raymond First Richfield Second Matthews Mesa Third Ogden Third Duchesne Berkeley Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Fifth Burley First Draper First Bingham Stake Ensign Nampa Bear Lake Bear River Boise Beaver Logan Bannock Mt. Ogden Maricopa Timpanogos Grant San Francisco Idaho Falls Franklin Malad San Juan Long Beach Uintah Sacramento Weber Kolob Ensign Ogden New York Bonneville St. Johns Hollywood Salt Lake Garfield Hollywood Palmyra Bonneville Rigby Rigby Highland Lehi Weber Taylor Sevier Los Angeles Maricopa North Weber Duchesne Oakland Palmyra Palmyra Burley East Jordan West Jordan Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 107 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 103 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Magazine Agent Alma Erickson Mary E. Dixon Alice B. Rich Mrs. H. Potter Florence Pruett Vera Ashworth Josie M. Robinson Lillian Peterson Mary Bertagnole Ida Verney Emma Harper Hedy Davies Sarah H. Pomeroy Christie Heath Estella G. Paton Esther Hess Edna Allan Marguerite Hunt Sara Lyon Lucile Beck Elizabeth London Florence Simkins Eda Eatchel Jessie Woods Louise Greenwood Malinda C. Hicken Lurana B. Eagar Kathryn Hughes Anna S. D. Johnson Hattie M. Ipson Carola S. Wurzback Pearl Cloward Ida von Nordeck Roberta Keller Clara Muggleson Effie Chipman Lenore T. Jones Margaret Vernieuw Fanny Litchfield Mrs. P. Magleby Elizabeth Bowen Naomi Ball Isabelle Hill Minnie Wheeler Hortense Carpenter Grace Meiling Alta Holt Nettie T. Oliverson Florence Sjoblom Selina Nerdin Ward Hilliard Buffalo Ogden 21st Glendale Redwood City Br. La Grande 2nd Melbourne Br. Elko Brisbane Br. Rapid City Br. Phoenix 4th Basin Br. Olympia Garcia Imbler Tyrell's Lake Br. Cody Br. Charleston Alexandria Br. New Orleans Br. Baldwin Park Pittsburgh Br. Pacheco Baker Clinton Tracy Br. San Antonio Juarez Penrose Arlington Tempe Fullerton Center Hanna Br. Powell Ruth Highland Fairview Br. Springdale Santa Maria Bundaberg Br. Wells Grass Valley Acequia Burlingame Santa Barbara Bankstown Br. Palmyra Alameda Grand Island Br. Fort Worth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 867 GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 inclusive) Stake Woodruff Eastern States Mis. Ogden Phoenix San Francisco Union Australian Mis. Nevada Australian Mis. Western States Mis. Phoenix Big Horn Seattle Juarez Union Taylor Big Horn Wasatch Texas Mis. Texas Mis. San Bernardino Eastern States Mis. Juarez Union Weber Sacramento Texas Mis. Juarez Big Horn Hollywood Maricopa Long Beach Wasatch Western States Mis. Big Horn Nevada Alpine Eastern States Mis. Burley Calif. Mis. Australian Mis. Nevada Gridley Minidoka San Francisco Calif. Mis. Australian Mis Eastern States Mis. Oakland Western States Mis. Texas Mis. 12 9 42 16 15 45 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 225 211 210 188 187 182 173 172 172 169 160 156 156 155 150 150 148 147 144 144 141 140 138 136 136 136 135 134 133 132 132 132 130 130 129 128 127 127 126 125 125 124 123 123 121 120 120 120 119 119 118 Magazine Agent Ella Malby Naomi G. Joy Elizabeth Jacobs Julia Kremer Charlotte Showers Emma Stringham Grace Bartlett Fawn S. Noren May Brown Mable Thomas Belle Herndon Lova Kinghorn Mary Andrus Ida Kartchner Jessie Perry Clara E. Selk Ethel Brailsford Mary Casper Martha Hanks Gwen Wrathall Margaret Cluff Nettie Shurtliff Angeline Child Sarah Dana Mildred Farnsworth Delilah M. Wasden Edith O. Cowan Mable Cluff Elena Smith Bertha Sweat Margaret Dexter Bertha Cozzens Nina Kraft Emily Hyde Mollie Stoops Hattie Marchant Reta Johnson Mary Wilson Nellie Hyde Sylvia Jensen Ella Harrison Ruth Bentley Louise Haberlitz Rose Foote Maude Collins MaRee Meuter Maude O. West 868 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C?Continued Ward Bellingham Fish Haven Gilbert Vallejo Burlington Unity Ventura Daniels Racine No. Hollywood Houston Br. Milwaukee So. Br. Chester Fairfield Croydon Cedron Colton Br. Montello Br. Hobart Br. Scofield Br. Firestone Park Milwaukee Pasadena Belle Fourche Br. Pleasant Grove 2nd Eden Heber Lost River Lago Adelaide Br. Victorville Br. Balboa Sublett Rosette Pendleton Mt. View San Rafael Herriman Perry University Boise 4th Superior Welling Flowell Elysian Park Boise 2nd Slaterville Harper Wendover Br. Woodland Alpine Ballard Stake Seattle Bear Lake Maricopa Oakland Big Horn Burley Calif. Mis. Malad Chicago Pasadena Texas Mis. Chicago Yellowstone Blaine Morgan Teton San Bernardino Mt. Ogden Australian Mis. Carbon Los Angeles Chicago Pasadena Western States Mis. Timpanogos Ogden Snowflake Lost River Bannock Australian Mis. San Bernardino San Francisco Raft River Curlew Union Lyman San Francisco West Jordan Box Elder Seattle Boise Maricopa Taylor Millard Pasadena Boise No. Weber Box Elder Tooele Portland St. Johns Roosevelt Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 17 20 118 35 41 117 24 28 117 24 27 117 45 52 116 37 43 116 20 23 115 13 15 115 13 15 115 36 41 114 25 28 114 14 16 114 45 51 113 23 26 113 16 18 113 15 17 113 15 17 113 15 17 113 8 9 113 22 25 112 17 19 112 43 48 111 35 39 111 111 48 53 110 30 33 110 21 23 110 21 23 110 20 22 110 10 11 110 10 11 110 43 47 109 11 12 109 11 12 109 12 13 108 14 15 107 13 14 107 41 43 106 36 38 106 34 36 106 32 34 106 32 34 106 18 19 106 16 17 106 40 42 105 39 41 105 38 40 105 21 22 105 19 20 105 19 20 105 27 28 104 25 26 104 Magazine Agent Ella M. Petrie Harriet G. Jensen Donnett Fuller Ida Fullen Dorothy Yorgason Juliana Nielson Genevieve Robinson Louise Gilgen Martha Hubert Louise Phippen Vivian Hart Julia Worrell Annie C. Thurber Hilda Stevens Leatha Kunz Anna Wildman Gertrude Jordan Mrs. M. J. Quinn Frances W. Helsten Elizabeth Winkler Elsie Schuette Jane Gottfredson Sadie Meredith Effa Williams Janet Ferrin Ora Despain Alice Noble Sadie Mickelson Mrs. G. A. Latter Margaret Robison Fredrekka Duffner Sylvia Olsen Edna Palmer Emily Hart Effa Graham Louise Bernards Agnes Dansie Ida W. Thorne Vera Leishman Lillis H. Melander Frances Linn Elizabeth Bullock Ruth Allen Zelda Shipley Irene Hayes Sylvia S. Knight Frewtrilla Yates Emily Bruner May Cottrel Jessie Jepson Ellen Bracken Ward Geneva Milo Torrance Malta Burton San Jose Lehi La Grande 2nd Duncan No. Long Beach Riverton 1st Joseph City Bluffdale Oakland Pella Sunset Wilmington Eastmont Caliente Stockton Daniels Center University North Park Thatcher Leland Egin Palisade Hayward Palmyra Grant Richmond Whitewater Br. Palo Alto Martinez Mapleton Pittsburg Br. Howell Preston 5th Nat'l City Br. Richie Central Utah Carlin Bates Evans Br. Pine Raymond Portola Br. Beaver Creek Br. Leadore Branch Tensleep Stake Montpelier No. Ida. Falls Long Beach Raft River Rexburg San Francisco Maricopa Union Mt. Graham Long Beach West Jordan Snowflake West Jordan Oakland Burley San Francisco Long Beach Los Angeles Moapa Sacramento Wasatch Salt Lake Chicago Calif. Mis. Bannock Palmyra Yellowstone Rigby Oakland Palmyra Los Angeles Oakland Calif. Mis. San Francisco Oakland Franklin Oakland Bear River Franklin Calif. Mis. Ida. Falls Bannock Duchesne Nevada Teton Box Elder Maricopa Montpelier Calif. Mis. Ida. Falls Lost River Big Horn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 869 GROUP C?Continued Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 26 26 26 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 102 102 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Magazine Agent Rosetta Teuscher Emily Palmer Helga Pankey Alice O. Neddo Mary Ellison Annie A. Briggs Elizabeth Horsfield Lola Williams Scrilda Wode Ione Packer Inez Nell Cleo Page Stella Cummins Ida Hardman Elizabeth Bergman Alice Freer Millie Johnson Ada Parkin Elsie Ashlock Leah Williams Olive Sattler Sarah Price Eva Gledhill Ingeborg Friberg Violet Bradley Wilda Rasmussen Eleanor Creer Eva Dexter Mattie Nelson Armorel Wells Lois Roach Marie Jenkins Augusta Morley Sarah E. Thompson Leah Martin Lillian Abbott Afton Long Ann Miller Presidency Pearl G. Geisler Georgiana Grimley Bertha Cooper Emma Hanson Ruth Broadhead Charlotte Ferguson Sady Furniss Alice Buxton Ina P. Hunt Eleanor Saxton Lenore Maxwell Wanda Willis Annie Duncan 870 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Bluff Lindon Warner Br. Grant Napa Br. Tonopah Uintah Allison Br. Perth Br. Carlsbad Br. White River Woolahra Br. Oyster Bay Br. Palm Springs Br. Ward Adams Blanding Lovell West Evanston 1st Edgehill Forest Dale Spring City Snowflake Yale Ogden 12th Pocatello 3rd Thirty-first Whittier St. Johns Belvedere Glendale Logan Ninth Bountiful 1st Pima Eighth Pocatello 1st Thirty-third Magna Provo 5th Brigham 3rd Cowley San Juan Snowflake Taylor Portneuf Oakland Calif. Mis. Mt. Ogden Western States Mis. Australian Mis. Western States Mis. Snowflake Australian Mis. Australian Mission Calif. Mis. 13 13 13 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 WARDS 75% TO 99% INCLUSIVE GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or over) Stake Hollywood San Juan Big Horn Woodruff Highland Granite No. Sanpete Snowflake Bonneville Mt. Ogden Pocatello Liberty Wells St. Johns Wells Pasadena Cache So. Davis St. Joseph Liberty Pocatello Bonneville Oquirrh Provo Box Elder Big Horn 113 147 121 110 102 116 114 121 105 145 123 137 124 100 113 127 111 107 139 112 137 106 121 117 110 105 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 96 Beatrice Nielson Leora Kartchner Hope Shaffer Rachel Anderson Mrs. Virgil Swenson Clara Lytle Ellen Stoker Lucinda Cardon Eunice Compton Irene Wilkinson Mrs. John White Mrs. C. Burroughs Myra McInerney Velma White Magazine Agent Carrie Ainge Dora Wright Mildred Despain Martha Johnston Gail Clayton Norma Woolf Nell Nyberg Emma Hall Tina Gardner Esther L. White Madge Cassity Florence Farr Rozilla Tolman Lily Haines Kathrine Sturgell Mary W. Waters Violet Ostler Elizabeth Waste Verna C. Jackson Minnie Lawson Freda Cluff Abbie L. Jorgensen Rita Austin Hattie Axelson Ina Hansen May H. Snow Agnes O. Stander Leona Fowler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 871 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive). Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Afton North Star Valley 69 66 96 Louise Frome Midway 2nd Wasatch 64 60 94 Susanna Probst Ogden 8th Ogden 96 89 93 Ada Taylor Ogden 11th Weber 69 64 93 Birdie Fowers Boise 1st Boise 79 73 92 Signa Pecora West Bountiful So. Davis 55 50.5 92 Chloe M. Arbuckle Rexburg 4th Rexburg 75 68 91 Isabell Blunck Inglewood Hollywood 68 62 91 Maurine B. Malm Mayfield Gunnison 57 52 91 Amelia C. Larson Ogden 6th Ogden 94 84 89 Gertrude Hays Ririe Rigby 73 65 89 Eliza Durant Maeser Uintah 55 49 89 Mabel Ashby San Bernardino San Bernardino 75 66 88 Ruth Irwin Hollywood Pasadena 64 56 88 Charlotte O'Conner Ogden 2nd Weber 82 71 87 Ethel McCarty Washington Br. Eastern States Mis. 69 60 87 Mina Whittle Byron Big Horn 67 58 87 Sally Griffin Emerson Highland 87 75 86 Agnes Kirk Ida. Falls 6th Idaho Falls 67 57.5 86 Phoebe Peterson Twenty-second Salt Lake 65 56 86 Lucy W. Holmes Midway 1st Wasatch 52 45 86 Ada D. Bonner Rexburg 3rd Rexburg 52 44.5 86 Margaret Pearson Mission San Francisco 51 44 86 Mrs. J. Kennison St. George West St. George 95 81 85 Alice Hamilton Pocatello 2nd Pocatello 89 76 85 Florence Wright Burton Wells 66 56 85 Mary Mendenhall Rigby 1st Rigby 91 75 84 Elizabeth West South Gate Los Angeles 86 72 84 Naomi Whale Salmon Lost River 83 69 83 Emma Bacus Hyrum 3rd Hyrum 81 67 83 Luella Birch Waterloo Wells 66 54.5 83 Hanna Clements American Fork 4th Alpine 64 53 83 Grace Coates North Pocatello Pocatello 54 45 83 Caroline Stewart Preston 6th Franklin 54 46 83 Mrs. B. Golightly Williamson Texas Mis. 53 44 83 Fifteenth Salt Lake 94 77.5 82 Mary Price Las Vegas Moapa 94 77 82 Maranda Craner Magrath 2nd Taylor 89 73 82 Frances Taylor Provo 6th Utah 88 72 82 Jane B. Evans Fillmore 2nd Millard 67 55 82 Manilla Brunson Vermont Los Angeles 66 55 82 Martha Jeffs Logan 2nd Logan 66 54 82 Inez Thain Spencer Oquirrh 56 46 82 Ethel Poulton Lindon Timpanogos 55 46 82 Edah Allred La Point Uintah 50 41 82 Grace Lambert Evanston 2nd Woodruff 74 60 81 Edith Davis Huntsville Ogden 78 63 81 Nell McKay Pocatello 6th Pocatello 57 46 81 Alta G. Bingham Bountiful 3rd So. Davis 97 78 80 Emma T. Riley Malad 3rd Malad 80 64 80 Jemima Opperman Twenty-ninth Salt Lake 80 64 80 Hillevi Daniels Circleville Garfield 78 62.5 80 Elsie Simkins 872 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B?Continued Ward Springdale Twin Falls 1st Gridley Tremonton 2nd Wells St. George East Spanish Fork 3rd Garden Park Prescott Br. Lincoln Oakley 2nd Grantsville Second Fillmore Timpanogos Roy Oak City Elwood Compton Centerville 1st Yalecrest Preston 3rd Shelley 1st Raymond 2nd Parowan East Calgary Vernal 1st Holden Idaho Falls 3rd Windsor Richfield 3rd Storrs Ogden 22nd Lake Shore Ward Hercules Redondo Claremont Dublan Fresno Branch Enmore Branch West Side Las Vegas Woodruff Kimball Showlow Basin Woodland Branch Riverton Zion Park 60 48 80 Twin Falls 75 60 80 Gridley 50 40 80 Bear River 94 75 79 Wells 80 63.5 79 St. George 101 79 78 Palmyra 86 67 78 Bonneville 83 65 78 Calif. Mis. 72 56 78 Idaho Falls 59 46 78 Cassia 54 42 78 Tooele 78 60 77 Millard 91 70 77 Sharon 79 61 77 Weber 66 52 77 Deseret 60 46 77 Bear River 57 44 77 Long Beach 56 43 77 So. Davis 99 75.5 76 Bonneville 93 71 76 Oneida 85 65 76 Shelley 82 62 76 Taylor 80 61 76 Parowan 74 56 76 Lethbridge 54 41 76 Uintah 97 73 75 Millard 77 58 75 Idaho Falls 70 52.5 75 Timpanogos 70 52 75 Sevier 68 51 75 Carbon 64 48 75 Weber 55 41 75 Palmyra 53 40 75 GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Oquirrh 28 27.5 98 Long Beach 27 26.5 98 Oakland 48 46.5 97 Juarez 39 38 97 California Mission 31 30 97 Australian Mission 28 27 96 Moapa 29 26 96 Snowflake 38 36 95 Shelley 22 21 95 Snowflake 31 29 94 Cassia 16 15 94 Sacramento 16 15 94 Blackfoot 27 25 93 Magazine Agent Nora C. Jolley Lenore Carroll Florence Jensen Edith Fuller Stella Widdison Effie Syphus Estella Christopherson Rena Bjorklund Veda Scott Helen Jensen Mary Stowers Glenna Millward Pearl Seguine Emma Stratton Jane Hyden Rachel Roper Mrs. Carl Romer Mavis Larson Ella Evans Genevieve Arnspiger Myrtle Anderson Esther Christensen Elsie Smith Josephine Paramore Helen Faulkner Ruvina Stone Elva Johnson Viola Edwards Mary B. Hales Everdiena C. Winkel Josephine McPhie Ruby Wilson Martha Simmons Magazine Agent Fannie Little Lennie Evans Clara Gleason Bernice Coon Charlotte Ursenbach Margaret Rood Cleora Jarrett Margaret Turley Florence Gifford Sarah M. Willis Nellie Martin Mrs. K. F. Gordon Cassie Brown Stake Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Ward Bern Copperfield Merrill Chandler Oakley Third Roseville Davis Kanesville Renton Branch Nampa First Albuquerque Branch Superior Picture Butte Murtaugh Etna Veyo Oakley First Grace Second Young Chuichupa Lincoln Richville Altoona Branch Riverton Branch Marriott Springfield Elberta Wardboro Clay Springs Diamondville Cleveland Coalingo Branch Ivins Moulton Binghamton Branch Garden City Susanville Branch Sunnyside Adamsville Flagstaff Branch Lyman Peterson Marsh Center Winslow Laketown Kirtland Marion Kanarra Bridgeland Waco Branch McNary Merced Branch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 873 GROUP C?Continued Stake Montpelier West Jordan Portneuf Maricopa Cassia Sacramento Uintah Weber Seattle Nampa Western States Mis. Lyman Lethbridge Roosevelt Star Valley St. George Cassia Bannock Logan Juarez Seattle Morgan Eastern States Mis. Western States Mis. North Weber Blackfoot Santaquin-Tintic Montpelier Snowflake Woodruff Bannock California Mission St. George Raft River Eastern States Mis. Bear Lake California Mission Carbon Beaver Snowflake Rexburg Morgan Portneuf Snowflake Bear Lake Young Cassia Parowan Duchesne Texas Mission Snowflake California Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 92 92 92 91 91 Magazine Agent Marintha Bienz Gladys Scroggin LaVene Pilgrim Helen Cluff Lavina Critchfield Nellie Boller Alice Gurr Aline Hansen Marie M. Kent Florence R. Adams Anna Davis Nora Hansen Luella Hague Annie Goodman Rozelia Cozier Esther Chadburn Helen Lee Mildred Ray Emma Speth Cora Judd Wilma Pike Lillie Clark Blanche Ruggles Hazel Dalley Sarah H. Parry Minnie Thurston Harriet E. Barney Evva Dalrymple Belle McCleve Neva Querry Mary Anderson Sallie Thomas Lula Tobler Julia H. Clark Lettie Elliott Irene Reed Eleanor Hansen Ruby Hanson Sara Jones Martha Thomas Rita Allen Nancy Bowman Martha Treasure Mrs. Ray Wakefield Oreta Satterthwaite Mae W. Bond Sarah Adams Frances Williams Clara Young Celia H. Gardner Nora Johnson 874 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C?Continued Ward Shumway Logan Square West Seattle Farnum Mt. Trumbell Independence Wanship Manhattan Swan Lake Leeds Lark Branch Twenty-third Williams Chico Br. Canandaigua Branch Reading Branch Riverside Firth Yuba City Rupert First Pingree Wrentham Branch Ovid Eden Kimball Mt. Tabor El Sereno Milburn Virgin Bloomfield Whitney View Omaha Branch Liberty Osmond Challis Hatch Calgary Queen Ann Granite Ashurst Emery No. Denver Branch Santa Clara Archer Holbrook Cherry Creek Sharon Lordsburg Branch Pine Valley Dines Scranton Branch Stake Snowflake Chicago Seattle Yellowstone St. George Rexburg Summit New York Portneuf St. George West Jordan Salt Lake Bannock Gridley Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Blackfoot Shelley Gridley Minidoka Blackfoot Taylor Bear Lake St. Joseph St. Joseph Portland Pasadena North Sanpete Zion Park Young Franklin Burley Western States Mis. Ogden Star Valley Lost River Idaho Lethbridge Seattle East Jordan St. Joseph St. Joseph Western States Mis. St. George Rexburg Snowflake Malad Bear Lake Mt. Graham St. George Lyman Eastern States Mis. 12 49 10 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 83 82 Magazine Agent Ruth Davis Margaret Kerr Bertha Hansen LeVera Hendrickson Jona Shelley Pauline Perry Bessie Hixon Elfriede Kuehne Marie Henderson Dallice Hartman Lillis Sandstrom Jennie Smith Martha Kingford Lucile Bennett Nellie Lodge Pearl D. Yeager Christine Kirwan Ingeborg Balstead Mabel Hayter Agnes Davidson Sarah E. Cammack Vera Erickson Delma Sorensen Carrie Thatcher Mary Connelly Dorothy Peterson Hannah Alyslanalp Rebecca Stewart Lola Cornelius Ellen Reid Iona Oliverson Verl W. Wrigley Ida H. Higbee Irma B. Holmes Nora Harrison Mabel Howell Valeria Johnson Helen Faulkner Etta Eskelsen Emma Beckstead Hazel Bryce Lucy Chesley VaLoie Hill Eliza Gubler Leah Briggs Mrs. Pratt Greer Merl Moon Hazel Long Leta F. B. Howard Maud Gardner Helen Bell Lavinia Weidow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 875 STAKES 75% OR OVER Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Phoenix 266 385 145 Ensign 796 1025 129 Maricopa 548 658 120 Juarez 121 139 115 Union 234 263.5 113 Oakland 481 534.5 111 Ogden 899 961 107 San Francisco 324 347 107 Granite 575 579.5 101 Big Horn 606 605 100 Long Beach 482 471 98 Wasatch 490 469 94 Weber 625 588 94 Hollywood 519 484 93 Nevada 362 338 93 San Juan 315 291 92 Boise 230 216 89 Bonneville 571 494 87 Palmyra 636 553 87 Cassia 179 153 85 Idaho Falls 503 428 83 Snowflake 584 486 83 Chicago 214 177 82 Duchesne 207 169.5 81 St. Johns 311 251 81 Utah 582 473 81 Burley 508 400 79 Wells 979 775.5 79 Salt Lake 949 752 79 Pocatello 844 654 77 Sacramento 279 216 77 San Bernardino 254 195 77 Liberty 915 696 76 Mt. Ogden 659 509 76 Bannock 297 224 75 Franklin 621 461 75 Los Angeles 739 552 75 Minidoka 539 293 75 Taylor 445 330.5 75 MISSIONS 75% OR Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Australian 129 182 141 Santa Barbara District California Mission 72 67 93 Nevada Dist., Cal. Mis. 242 200 83 Fresno Dist., Cal. Mis. 75 61 81 Monterey Bay District California Mission 40 32 80 N. Ariz. Dist., Cal. Mis. 72 56 78 OVER Magazine Agent Zina Dana Camilla Halladay Amy P. Morris Jennie Bowman Mildred Snider Vida S. Allen Lois D. Smith Naomi S. MacCabe Pearl H. Crockett Ann Gwynn Ethel Spongberg Lillie L. Duke Mabel C. Ellis LaVina L. Rohner Ramona Watson Caroline N. Redd LaVon L. Dalton Bernice Duffin Lenora Gulf Jennie R. Hale Della Rowberry Coral S. Peterson Fanny R. Bradley Eliza J. Gilbert Laura Farr Day Irma M. Mitchell Nellie R. Barlow Eleanor S. Muir Clara B. Wright Gladys G. Merrill Marie Gibby Naomi Larsen Mary A. Coulam Laurel M. Dickson Hattie Hogan Jeanette S. Barton Zilla Major Pearl Brewerton Theta R. Sabey Magazine Agent Violet Cook Lillian Johnson Marcia G. Davis Charlotte Ursenbach Irene Sorenson Veda Scott 876 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 10 HIGHEST STAKES ACCORDING TO NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Ensign 796 1,025 129 Camilla Halladay Ogden 899 961 107 Lois D. Smith Wells 979 775.5 79 Eleanor S. Muir Salt Lake 949 752 79 Clara B. Wright Liberty 915 696 76 Mary A. Coulam Maricopa 548 658 120 Amy P. Morris Pocatello 844 654 77 Gladys G. Merrill Big Horn 606 605 100 Ann Gwynn Weber 625 588 94 Mabel C. Ellis Granite 575 579.5 101 Pearl H. Crockett Long Live Your Poinsettia (Continued from page 820) the room dropped suddenly, or it may have been in the path of a cold draft. In this case, immerse the pot into warm water to remove the chill from the roots. Keep the plant in a part of the house where the temperature is likely to remain the same degree both day and night. Poinsettias are not continuous bloomers and will show signs of tiredness along in February?granting that you have taken proper care of them that long. The leaves will droop and fall as the rest period approaches. The shrub can then be cut down and the pot set away until about August. Its blooming time is over, and its sleepy time has come. In return for proper care, the poinsettia will preserve for you your Christmas joys until other plants have appeared to relieve the drowsy poinsettia and to take up the job of bringing happiness where the poinsettia has left off. Starting the Child Right Food plays such an important part in the up-bringing of healthy children that modern parents listen eagerly to the findings of experts. From all authoritative sources comes a chorus of praise for milk, as one of the most important foods for children. Milk combines in balanced form a great many of the health elements so essential to the proper growth and general well-being of active boys and girls. Authorities say that every child should have a quart of milk a day in some form, whether as a beverage or combined with other foods. Irradiated vitamin D milk is recognized as an excellent source of the precious sunshine vitamin which is essential to the building and nourishment of straight, strong bones and sound, even teeth. Science has come to our aid by enriching milk with vitamin D by irradiation with ultra-violet rays, like sun's rays. A quart of irradiated vitamin D milk every day will supply a normal child with the required amount of vitamin D for sturdy health. Make this A BOOK CHRISTMAS Give Books and the selection of your Christmas presents becomes a delight instead of a chore. You'll have just as much pleasure picking out the right books for the right people as your friends will when they receive and read them. Besides Books?we have a great variety of other Gift Articles?in fact, this is "the Store of a Thousand Gifts". We also have a complete stock of Relief Society supplies and lesson material. Make this friendly store your Gift and Book headquarters. Deseret Book Company Phone Wasatch 6967 Wouldn't Mother Like a New GAS RANGE For Christmas? For easier cooking at lower cost CONVENIENT TERMS Start Him Right Every child should have a quart of milk every day?to drink, or combined with other foods. Cloverleaf Milk brings the added benefit of an extra supply of sunshine vitamin D which helps build strong bones and sound teeth. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf MOUNTAIN FUEL When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk Home of Fine Dairy Products Salt Lake City, Utah SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake ? Ogden ? Provo Serving 23 Utah Communities that will bring delight to your lady Christmas Tributes that will bring delight to your lady. Let the gift that carries your Christmas message of love and cheer be one of quality. It's the priceless ingredient that distinguishes every gift in ZCMI's glorious profusion, whether your choice is silverware at several dollars or several hundred, flattering perfume inexpensive or priceless, exquisite apparel much or moderately priced. Her delight in beauty and usefulness will be your constant pleasure for years to come. ZCMI Gift center of the west
