[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Breakfast Is an Stevens]
Breakfast Is an Important Meal Hazel Stevens Nutrition Consultant, Utah State Department of Health HE food one eats over a period of time nourishes the body and supplies nutrients for growth, repair, and maintenance.
Breakfast is an important meal because the body has been without food for ten to fourteen hours.
Food of the right kind is needed for the morning's activities. The following observations have shown the need for a better breakfast campaign: 1.
Many working girls and housewives become tired, restless, hungry, and crave snacks during the midmorning hours when they skip breakfast.
These snacks include candy, "pops," and pastries, rather than essential foods.
These women fail to realize how breakfast may contribute towards efficiency and enjoyment of the day's activities. 2. Too many individuals take a mere glass of fruit juice or milk, and sometimes a roll or doughnut, and consider this a good breakfast. 3.
Many teachers have reported that some children come to school without breakfast.
These children tend to become tired, restless, and inattentive before lunch time. If you or any of your family members are "breakfast skippers," ask yourselves why?
Then proceed to rectify this mistake.
These may be among the reasons: 1. In a hurry? Not enough time?
Most people would have time to prepare and eat breakfast if they would get up a little earlier. For children, it may mean retiring a little earlier at night.
Breakfast requires such a little time to prepare.
Sometimes it can be prepared the night before. Ten to twenty minutes should be allowed for breakfast. 2. Not hungry?
This may be because the individual has improper food, fails to get exercise, or has too little activity. It may also be a habit. If the non-hungry feeling persists, the individual should have a complete examination by his physician and follow his suggestions. In some Cases, poor appetite exists because the physical condition of the individual may be below par. If one is in good physical condition, the right kind of food, properly prepared, will cause normal hunger. The nonhungry feeling may sometimes be caused by emotional upsets.
Sufficient time, a happy mood, attractive and tasty dishes will help the appetite. 3.
Afraid of getting fat? A good breakfast has fewer calories than candy, soda pop, and pastries. 4.
Dislike of breakfast foods?
This may be due to a lack of variety in foods and too little variation in preparation. For example, one can grow to dislike eggs if he is served a fried egg every morning.
Eggs may be prepared in many different ways to appease the eye and the appetite.
Cereals may be cooked in milk, fruit Page 251 252 added, served hot or chilled, or sliced and fried as scrapple.
Milk can be put into many breakfast dishes so that one does not always need to use it as a drink, 5.
