[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: All These Crawford]

EDITORIAL ——2 APRIL 1947 VOL. 34 "All These Shings Shall Be Held In Remembrance" WE know what children do and say, but where shall we find and recall our own childhood. If we carefully reconstruct this most pliable period of life, its joys, and its they ate, for we shall see ourselves as we were.
Early impressions are so deep and lasting that they stay with us forever. And beyond our visible recalling there is a background of attitudes and a web of habits which affect us vitally, but which we cannot trace. The various facets of disposition and personality are first woven on the loom of childhood.
These lasting impressions are pure emotion, unmarked, at first, by logic or morality.
There is but a small background of experience for their interpretation. We may lose some of the wonder and the glory, the color and the sound of childhood, but out of the tapestry of days there are treasures that remain bright as jewels, and every time the beauty-seeking mind goes back to them, their lasting luster reflects a new radiance. Go into the treasury of your own house of memories and see what you find. How did the events which Page 250 you recall happen, and what is their significance?
Think quietly of this, and let your childhood come back that you may see again the measure of life and look upon your own an other children with a new understanding. The Bible tells us that Zacharias, rejoicing in the birth of his son, asked for a writing table and wrote, saying: _.. His name is John..-- and all these heard them laid t saying, What manner of child will this be?
What manner of child will this be? He will grow as you direct him, with his roots in his ancestry, and he will be swayed by his environment. His experiences will become memories, and they will affect his life when he is a man. To a large extent these memories will determine the course of his life. The essence of childhood should be love and security.
Years are the Eden of life. Let childhood have its day. Let each little one remember his mother's face, his father's voice. Let him remember good music, beautiful pictures, quietness, kind words, and laughter. V. P. C.