[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Natures Luce]
Willard    Luce  236 
Pioneer  Stories  and  Incidents:     Handcart  Pioneers   II  
 President  Amy  Brown   Lyman  245 
Breakfast  Is  an  Important  Meal   Hazel   Stevens  251 
Mormonism  in  the  Eyes  of  the  Press:     The  Press  Views 
Mormonism  as  a  Zionist   Movement    Elder  James   R.    Clark  261 
Select  Safe   Clothes   
 C.    Elaine   Ericksen  266 
Color   For   the   Centennial   Summer     Vesta   P.    Crawford  270 
A  Reward  For  Cheerful  Service    Lucinda  M.  Chidester  Harrington  274 
FICTION 
Young  Samantha  
 Christie  Lund  Coles  232 
A   Place   in  the   Country:     The   Arrival   
 Ruby   Scranton   Jones  242 
Where   Trails  Run   Out— Chapter  3   
 _   Anna   Prince   Redd  254 
The  Woman  of  the  Shawl  
 C.   Frank  Steele  268 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty  Years  Ago  
 _    248 
Woman's  Sphere  
 Ramona  W.   Cannon  249 
Editorial:      "All  These   Things  Shall   Be   Held  in  Remembrance"     Vesta   P.    Crawford  250 
Notes  From  the  Field:    Relief  Society  Bazaars  and  General  Activities    
  General    Secretary-Treasurer,    Margaret    C.    Pickering  275 
POETRY 
Mary  Magdalene — Frontispiece  
 Dorothy  J.   Roberts  217 
Opinions    
 Lillian    S.    Smith  234 
In  Waiting  
 Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard  235 
Prisoner   
 Margery    S.    Stewart  244 
A  Gull  at  Dawn  
 Jo  Adelaide  Stock  247 
Walk   a   Little   Way   With   Me   
 Leona   Bammes    Gardner  247 
The    Amaryllis    
 Evelyn    Fjeldsted  253 
The  Challenge  of  a  Daffodil  
 Wanda  M.   Lund  265 
Weber  River  
 Beatrice  K.   Ekman  265 
Chastisement    
 Genevieve    J.    Van    Wagenen  267 
April   Wisdom   
 Maude    Blixt    Trone  267 
Recompense   
 Berta   H.    Christensen  269 
Be   Still 
 Olive    C.    Wehr  274 
I  Shall  Be  Glad    „ 
 : 
 Jeanette  P.  Parry  286 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah.  Phone  3-2741.  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
MAGAZINE  CIRCULATION,  85,000

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  34,   NO.  4  APRIL  1947 
MARY  MAGDALENE 
Dorothy  ].  Roberts 
Seeing  the  lily's  white  petal  hold 
Its  tapered  pistil,  a  wand  of  gold, 
And  hearing  the  hymns  of  Easter  drift 
Through  sun-bright  air  of  spring  and  lift 
The  listening  heart,  I  think  of  her, 
Mary  of  Magdala,  the  stir 
Of  her  garment  as  she  knelt,  the  first 
In  the  garden  when  the  pink  light  burst 
Its  widening  bloom  above  the  dark 
Chasms  of  the  Dead  Sea,  tinting  the  stark 
Mount  of  Jerusalem  opal  and  pearl. 
I  think  of  her  watching  the  black  night  furl 
As  she  uttered  the  motif  of  sound  to  roll 
Into  a  world  paean  where  glad  bells  toll. 
Little  her  woman's  mind  understood 
The  mysteries.    In  the  dew-wet  wood, 
Seeing  the  stone  had  been  rolled  away 
And  only  his  folded  linen  lay 
Limp  in  the  tomb,  little  she  knew 
Save  his  promises.    As  the  palm  leaf  grew 
Sharper  against  a  coral  cloud, 
She  could  only  weep  and  cry  aloud 
To  a  Figure  near  in  the  dim  half-light: 
"Where  have  you  laid  him?"  Her  face  as  bright 
As  the  eastern  sky  at  his  answering; 
To  hear  the  voice  of  the  Master  ring 
Alive  and  resonant  through  her  grief. 
I  think  of  her  rising  in  swift  belief, 
Her  rippled  hair  streaming  in  the  dawn, 
Her  sandaled  footsteps  racing  on, 
Faithful  and  unafraid,  to  fly 
Into  the  ages  with  her  cry. 
The  Cover:  "Springtime  Blossoms,"  Photograph  by  Walter  P.  Cottam

From  a  Painting   by  Hofmai 
EASTER  MORNING

The  Greatest  Miracle 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kim  ball 
Member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
4  4  /CHRIST  Is  Risen!"  called  a  accept  the  miraculous  happening, 
1  i  friend  to  his  neighbor,  and  he  says:  ".  .  .  .  blessed  are  they  that 
his  friend,  likewise  a  faith-  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed" 
ful  Christian,  responded:  "He  is  ris-  (John  21:29). 
en  indeed!"  Thus,  with  this  assur-  And  the  message  of  Easter  comes 
ing  salutation  and  a  kiss,  the  breth-  ringing  year  after  year,  a  sweet  re- 
ren  long  ago  greeted  each  other  on  frain:  "Believe— Believe." 
Easter  morning.  This  greatest  miracle  of  all  time 
Again  we  approach  the  Eastertime  we  celebrate  each  Eastertime.  It  is 
in  commemoration  of  the  resurrec-  the  miracle  of  the  victory  over  the 
tion  of  the  Lord,  and  though  many  grave,  the  nullification  of  the  sting 
professed  Christian  leaders  and  laity  of  death,  the  triumph  over  the  last 
would  trim  from  the  wondrous  story  enemy— death, 
its  divinity  and  supernatural  aspects,  A  miracle  is  an  event  which  we  do 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat-  not  understand  or  explain.  Since 
ter-day  Saints  affirms  and  bears  testi-  the  beginning  of  the  race,  all  men 
mony  to  a  doubting  world  that  Jesus  had  died  through  disease,  accident, 
Christ,  born  in  Bethlehem,  was  the  or  senility,  and  no  escape  from  this 
Son  of  God— the  Only  Begotten  of  dread  fatality  had  ever  been  found, 
the  Father,  and  having  fully  met  and  though  intellectuals  had  studied, 
conquered  all  enemies,  including  physicians  had  experimented,  and  all 
death,  he  was  the  "firstfruits  of  them  known  cures  had  been  attempted.  It 
that  slept,"  and  opened  the  door  to  is  true  that  death  had  been  post- 
redemption  to  all  the  mortal  beings  poned  by  skilled  technicians  and,  in 
with  earth  existence.  And  because  the  case  of  the  widow's  son,  Elijah 
he  was  divine  as  well  as  mortal,  and  actually  overcame  death  temporar- 
because  he  overcame  all  things  and  ily,  but  for  a  time  only,  for  this  per- 
became  perfected,  he  had  the  power  son,  restored  for  a  time  to  his  sor- 
to  come  forth  from  the  grave,  and  rowing  mother,  must  yet  pass 
the  long  awaited  resurrection  became  through  the  dissolution  process  of 
a  reality.  mortal  death.  In  the  case  of  Laza- 
Many  are  the  modern  doubters,  rus  the  Savior  also  delayed  the 
They  would  say  with  doubting  death  of  dissolution  by  calling  this 
Thomas,  "Except  I  shall  see  in  his  friend  from  the  tomb.  But,  here 
hands  the  print  of  the  nails,  and  put  again,  Lazarus  was  not  changed  to 
my  finger  into  the  print  of  the  nails,  immortality,  but  remained  still  a 
and  thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  mortal,  subject  to  disease  and  acci- 
will  not  believe"  (John  20:25 ) .  And  dent,  and  must,  in  days  to  come,  pass 
to  them  the  Lord  says:  "Be  not  faith-  through  the  dreaded  change  again, 
less,  but  believing"  (John  21:27).  ^n^  so  ]t  remaine(l  f°r  Jesus  of 
And  to  those  many  who,  full  of  faith,  Nazareth  to  have  and  use  the  power 
Page  219

220 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL   1947 
to  overcome  death  in  oneself.  And 
through  him  now  comes  power  to  all 
who  have  lived  on  earth  to  come 
forth  in  immortality.  "For  as  in  Ad- 
am all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all 
be  made  alive"  (I  Cor.  15:22). 
The  mystery  of  the  resurrection 
was  so  little  comprehended,  small 
wonder  that  the  disciples  of  Jesus 
continued  to  question  him  and  to 
stand  in  awe  as  he  spoke  of  his  death 
and  resurrection.  Though  the  scrip- 
tures with  which  they  were  some- 
what familiar  had  spoken  of  such  a 
miracle,  it  seemed  beyond  their  com- 
prehension, for  ".  .  .  .  yet  they  be- 
lieved not  on  him  ....  though  he 
had  done  so  many  miracles  before 
them  .  .  .  ."  (John  12:37).  How 
could  they  understand  when,  in  their 
experience,  nothing  like  this  of 
which  Jesus  spoke  had  ever  happened 
before!  And  Peter  said:  "Lord, 
whither  goest  thou?"  (John  13:36). 
And  "Thomas  saith  unto  him,  Lord, 
we  know  not  whither  thou  goest 
.  .  .  ."  (John  14:5).  And,  speaking 
wonderingly  among  themselves,  they 
frequently  said  "  ....  we  cannot  tell 
what  he  saith"  (John  16:18). 
They  even  supposed  that  he  talked 
of  buildings  made  by  hands  when 
he  said: 
....  Destroy  this  temple,  and  in  three 
days  I  will  raise  it  up.  Then  said  the  Jews, 
Forty  and  six  years  was  this  temple  in 
building,  and  wilt  thou  rear  it  up  in  three 
days?  But  he  spake  of  the  temple  of  his 
body   (John   2:19-21). 
Jesus  frequently  spoke  to  them  of 
his  death  and  of  his  resurrection. 
And  the  old  scriptures  which  they 
read  had  referred  to  this  miracle.  Job 
had  said: 
Tf  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?  All 
the  days  of  my  appointed  time  will  I  wait, 
till  my  change  come  (Job.  14:14). 
And  though,  after  my  skin,  worms  de- 
stroy this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see 
God  .  .  .  (Job  19:26). 
And  the  psalmist  declared: 
For  thou  wilt  not  leave  my  soul  in  hell; 
neither  wilt  thou  suffer  thine  Holy  One 
to  see  corruption  (Psalms  16:10). 
...  I  shall  be  satisfied,  when  I  awake, 
with  thy  likeness  (Psalms  17:15). 
Isaiah  promised: 
He  will  swallow  up  death  in  victory; 
and  the  Lord  God  will  wipe  away  tears 
from  off  all  faces  (Isaiah  25:8). 
Yet  still  his  followers  were  con- 
fused and  understood  not. 
/^NLY  a  God  could  bring  about 
this  miracle  of  resurrection.  As 
a  teacher  of  righteousness,  Jesus 
could  inspire  souls  to  goodness;  as  a 
prophet,  he  could  foreshadow  the 
future;  as  an  intelligent  leader  of 
men,  he  could  organize  a  Church; 
and  as  a  possessor  and  magnifier  of 
the  Priesthood,  he  could  heal  the 
sick,  give  sight  to  the  blind,  and  even 
raise  other  dead;  but  only  as  a  God 
could  he  raise  himself  from  the 
tomb,  overcome  death  permanently, 
and  bring  incorruption  in  place  of 
corruption,  and  replace  mortality 
with  immortality. 
Very  early  in  his  mortal  life,  Jesus 
seemed  to  realize  that  he  was  of  di- 
vine parentage,  and  that  in  him  lay 
the  power  to  effect  the  miracle 
which  was  yet  such  a  deep  mystery. 
At  twelve,  he  reminded  his  family: 
Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my 
Father's  business?  And  they  understood 
not  the  saying  which  he  spake  unto  them 
(Luke  2:49-50). 
Later,  he  spoke  of  his  death  and 
of  this  new  power  which  he  pos- 
sessed: