[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]
Designs are cut from printed cloth and pasted on the stationery.
Twelve sheets and envelopes sell for fifty cents. The variety of design and color which may be worked out in this stationery provides a very interesting and worthwhile project and much of the stationery WOODRUFF STAKE, HILLIARD WARD (WYOMING) VISIT OF PRESIDENT WARBURTON TO HILLIARD WARD Esther L, Warburton, President, Woodruff Stake Relief Society, reports a_ visit she and others made to the Hilliard Ward, November 3, 1946. Hilliard, with an elevation over 7,000 feet, is in the high country eighteen miles from Evanston, A strong wind was blowing and the roads were rough and slippery. The ruts were deep, and, once in them, it was necessary to stay there. "We moralized, as we drove along, how true it was to life, how easy to get into a rut and how hard to get out of one. However, as_ we turned into the lane that led to the little church, a particularly slippery bypath showed that another car had already skidded off there into the ditch. Immediately, we followed suit and skidded, too, showing again that if others go astray, it is easy to follow their lead. Our men-folks got out and shoveled and tried to get the car onto the toad, but all in vain. An east wind was doing its best to make things more uncomfortable, when along came the good bishop and his family in their truck. So, with all hands to the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 rescue, we were finally on the way to the church. On reaching there, the men went in and kindled a fire.
While we were waiting in the car the bishop's wife told of the many things they have to overcome in order to hold Relief Society meetings.
Sometimes she comes on horseback, with one child back of her, holding on, and one in front.
Then sometimes they come to Relief Society meeting in a wagon with the children on a bed of hay, covered with warm quilts. In spite of all these drawbacks, the Hilliard Ward Relief Society presented every lesson last year, gained two new members, completed their Welfare assignment, collected forty bars of soap for Europe, collected a box of clothing for the saints overseas, and gave a party for the returned servicemen. Two years ago the Hilliard Ward Relief Society sisters served an anniversary banquet when the temperature outdoors was forty degrees below zero. CENTRAL STATES MISSION, EL DORADO BRANCH (ARKANSAS) GENERAL BOARD BUILDING FUND CONTRIBUTION This novel, heart-shaped apron was recently sent to the office of the General Board of Relief Society.
Various amounts of money were pinned on the apron as a contribution to the Relief Society General Board Building Fund. The sisters of the El Dorado Branch expressed in this way their loyalty to the Society and their co-operation in planning for a home for the general offices of the Relief Society. The sisters who made this contribution are: Birdie Wright, Cora Craig, Mable Griffin, Ima Adcox, Joe Elin Griffin, and Maude Flemmekin. Martha W.
Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society.
282 NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION LAYETTE ASSIGNMENT Left to right: Elder Granville Oleson; Lenora K. Bringhurst, President Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. Sister Bringhurst reports an unusually successful project in which more than one hundred baby layettes were made, assembled, and shipped to the missions in Europe. All eighty of the Relief Societies in the Northwestern States Mission participated wholeheartedly in the assignment, many of the organizations sending in double the number of articles requested.
When the layettes were received at the mission home in Portland, the missionaries assisted Sister Bringhurst in sorting and preparing the layettes for shipment.
Each package included three dozen diapers, six gowns, four short jackets, three shirts, four pairs bootees, four pairs of stockings, six receiving blankets, one large blanket, one set of wool bootees, bonnet, and jacket, one rubber sheet, one soaker, sheet blankets, and such incidentals as cotton, oil, powder, soap, and safety pins. PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR FIFTH WARD "BRIDES DAY" Annie C. Esplin, counselor in the Cedar Fifth Ward Relief Society, reports a "Brides Day" meeting which was held in December 1946.
Corsages were presented to the bride married the longest and to the bride most recently married. The oldest woman present, Sister Jane Jones, had been married sixty-eight years, and the youngest woman had been married six weeks. One of the young mothers, Sister Lois Windsor, gave a very instructive and inspirational talk, a part of which is quoted here: "It is a privilege and an honor for me to engage in Relief Society work because I am entering the most important phase of my life — the establishment of a home and the rearing of a family. The success of my home depends upon the knowledge with which I meet my daily problems. In partnership with my husband, and with faith, love, understanding, and security, we have a good chance to create a harmonious world for our children. The home is the child's world." PORTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO), SWAN LAKE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PARTY HONORING SISTER LIZZIE KAY ON HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, FEBRUARY 6, 1947
Thelma Gamble, President, Swan Lake Ward Relief Society reports a birthday party held in honor of "Aunt Lizzie" Kay on her eightieth birthday anniversary. A program of singing and readings was presented and a sketch of life history of Sister Kay was read. "Aunt Lizzie" has spent thirty-three years in Relief Society work as president and counselor. A tribute in the form of a poem, written by Sister 
 —APRIL 1947 SOUTHERN ARIZONA STAKE, ST.
DAVID WARD BAZAAR
December 4, 1946
Gladys E. Huish, President, Southern Arizona Stake Relief Society, reports that the bazaar held in the St. David Ward was unusually successful. Many items of food, including chili beans, tamale pie, ice cream, cake, pie, and popcorn balls were sold. In the handwork department, five large quilts, four crib quilts, dresses, shirts, baby dresses, aprons, pot holders, pillowcases, luncheon cloths, scarves, and beautiful crocheted sets were displayed for sale. Mrs. Tulley, a non-member of the Church, made some lovely figurines and contributed them to the bazaar. Gladys McRae is president of the St. David Ward Relief Society LYMAN STAKE (WYOMING), GREEN RIVER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: President Lillian Butters; First Counselor Gertrude Russell; Second Counselor Bertha Bloomquist; Secretary -Treasurer, Gertrude Anderson. YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), FARMINGTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, DECEMBER 1946
Standing in front of the handwork articles are the officers of the Farmington Ward Relief Society, left to right: President Lucy S. Burnham; First Counselor Blanche 'Tanner; Second Counselor and work director, Georgana Lillywhite; assistant work director Courilla James. Secretary Beth Christensen was absent when the photograph was taken. The articles featured at this bazaar were unusually well made of good quality materials. The quilts, especially, were beautiful and the large assortments of aprons and crocheted doilies were a real accomplishment. The organization made $392.92 the first night of the bazaar and many useful articles were left.
These were later sold for Christmas presents. The project of the Farmington Ward this year is to enroll the young mothers as active members of the Relief Society. A baby tender is provided at each meeting. DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Margaret Drury, housing and employment director; Helen Walker, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 285 theology class leader; Harriet Dalton, laterature class leader; Beatrice Self, Secretary; Ilah Smith, Second Counselor; Erma Rice, President; Ellen Arrowsmith, First Counselor; May Varner, magazine representative. Erma Rice, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports a project in which an apron sale was held to secure funds for buying materials for making burial clothing.
Each ward in the stake donated five aprons, and the stake board donated twenty aprons. The apron sale was held as a feature of the annual stake party in June 1946.
Decorations were carried out in the Relief Society colors and refreshments were served. The apron sale netted $100. UINTAH STAKE (UTAH), ASHLEY WARD VISITING TEACHERS Front row, left to right: Clara Preece; Flora Winn; Nellie O. Merkley; Mary A. Preece; Annie Morrison; Erma Toone.
Back row, left to right: Beatrice Harrison; Della Chivers; Flossie Pace; Eva Mecham; Stella Freestone; Anna Smith; May H. Freestone.
These visiting teachers achieved a 100 per cent record in 1946. The two sisters wearing corsages and holding the picture have each served twenty-five years as a visiting teacher. 'The picture they are holding was presented to the Ashley Ward by the stake Relief Society at a visiting teachers' convention January 26, 1946. At this convention, 265 visiting teachers were in attendance, and fifty-five women were honored with corsages for having served more than twenty-five years as visiting teachers. OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA), VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION Mildred Pearce Morgan reports the first visiting teachers convention held by the new Oakland Stake since the dividing of the stake into Berkeley and Oakland Stakes. The convention was held February 20, 1947, in the Elmhurst Ward chapel on the Oakland hills, overlooking San Francisco Bay. Stake President of Relief Society Hilda Perkins presided and 150 visiting teachers were in attendance.
Inspirational talks were given by Inez MacFarlane, Ivy Breck, Ganel Miller, and Ruth S. Hilton, former president of Oakland Stake Relief Society.
Many interesting and helpful experiences in visiting teaching were related, showing the spirit of service and the accomplishments of the faithful sisters in this activity. The Singing Mothers of Dimond Ward furnished music. Two vocal solos were rendered by Mary Bolles, a recent convert to the Church.
Following the convention, a social hour was enjoyed and refreshments served.
286 SOUTH AVIS STAKE UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS At the Visiting Teachers' Convention, January 26, 1947 in the Bountiful Tabernacle Seated in front of the piano: Chorister Stella Mills and organist Dora H. Barlow.
Front row, left to right: Work director Lena G. Blamires; literature leader Mary F. Evans; social science leader Eveline B. Bjorkman; President Reva F. Wicker; General Board member Lillie C. Adams; Second Counselor Ruth A. Page; visiting teachers' supervisor Zelda H. Mills; theology leader Irene D. Sorenson. The Bountiful Tabernacle is one of the oldest Church buildings still in use. It was dedicated February 11, 1857 by Lorenzo Snow and, later, the spires were dedicated by President Brigham Young.
