[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 457 teen years ago, was released on account of ill health and Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis was chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Dixon has been faithful and devoted to the Relief Society cause, giving it her loyal support at all times. Her charming personality and kindly nature have won her a host of friends, not only among the stake and local officers and members, but also among the general officers. Rigby Stake. Mrs. Ann T. Walker resigned from her position as president of the Relief Society of the Rigby stake on June 2, 1918. Mrs. Walker has been true and faithful in the performance of her duties, and has put forth her best efforts at all times for the advancement of Relief Society work. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Hart, who served as 1st Counselor to Mrs. Walker, was chosen as the new president. Maricopa Stake. One of the first stakes to send in the Annual Dues for 1918 was the Maricopa stake, with a record of 100 per cent from all the wards except the Papago Indian ward. The Papago ward has an enrollment of thirty-one. These Indian members like those meetings best at which food demonstrations are held and refreshments served, but as this feature is rather expensive, the stake officers are thinking of outlining some special other work which will be adapted to them. Three new wards have been organized in this stake since the beginning of the year. At the stake officers' meetings, held once a month, the time is spent in discussing stake and ward problems and in the presentation of lessons. At the ward officers' meeting, reports are heard from the ward presidents and at least two lessons for the following month are given. Panguitch Stake. In the Panguitch stake, the Relief Society stake visitors accompany the home missionaries in visiting wards. St. George Stake. In Pine Valley ward the entire membership subscribe to the Magazine. There are eleven members and eleven copies of the Magazine are taken. Summit Stake. In the Third Liberty Loan, each of the sixteen wards in the Summit Stake Relief Society purchased a $50 bond. 
 California Mission. Oakland. In the recent Red Cross parade held at Oakland, California, the Relief Society float took the second prize. There were 192 floats in all. (See illustration.) PRIZE FLORAL FLOAT OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT OAKLAND. Gridley. In Gridley, California, we have two very energetic and prosperous branches of the Relief Society. Mrs. Lydia J. Brown is president of the Gridley branch, which has a membership of 52, and Mrs. Harriet Little is president of the Liberty branch, with a membership of 26. These branches take up all of the regular activities of the Relief Society. NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK. The National Conference of Social Work convened in Kansas City from May 15 to 22, 1918, with 2,000 delegates in attendance. Utah was represented by Elder Stephen L. Richards and wife, of the Social Advisory Committee of the Church; Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Miss Beth Bradford and Miss Cora Kasius, of the Relief Society; Miss Kate Williams, Miss Claire Smith, Charity Organization Society; Miss Mae Hawley, representing the Home Service Department of the Red Cross; Mrs. A. H. S. Bird, Catholic NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 459 Woman's League; Superintendent Edwin S. Hinckley, and wife from the State Industrial School, Ogden. The National Conference of Social Work was organized in 1874 and has held annual meetings since that time. It was organized for the purpose of considering problems and methods of practical human improvement and to give assistance to agencies and institutions working along these lines. It began its existence as a part of the Social Science Association. The conference now consists of seven permanent divisions devoted to the following subjects: Children; Delinquents and Correction; Health; Public Agencies and Institutions; The Family; Industrial and Economic Problems; and The Local Community. In addition to these there were three other divisions during the 1918 conference: Mental Hygiene; Organization of Social Forces; Social Problems of the War and Reconstruction. The war spirit pervaded all the sessions of the conference and there was a keen realization that the war situation is not only emphasizing and enlarging all of the old social problems, but is creating new ones. Reports of the very satisfactory results of the methods adopted by the Government for the welfare of the soldier and the splendid hygienic conditions prevailing at cantonments convinced social workers that many of these wholesale methods should be adopted in civilian life. Among the speakers were many prominent men and women including the foremost social workers of the country, college professors and experts on industrial and economic problems. Probably the most popular among these were Henry P. Davidson, Chairman of the War Council and General Director of the American Red Cross, and S. K. Ratcliffe, correspondent of the London Daily News. Women were well represented on the program. Among the women speakers were Miss Jane Addams, founder of Hull House, Chicago; Miss Julia Lathrop, Chief of the Federal Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. Florence Kelley, Secretary of the National Consumers' League, New York City; Miss Mary E. Richmond, Director of the Charity Organization Department of the Russell Sage Foundation and author of "Social Diagnosis," and Miss Gertrude Vaile, Chairman of the Division on "The Family," also Director of the Civilian Relief in the Mountain States Division of the Red Cross. Mr. S. K. Ratcliffe, correspondent of the London Daily News in referring to the war said that we shall have real victories only when we triumph in the war and when we secure fuller and more democratic justice at home. "Not money but the life that a community provides is its real wealth." Miss Addams stated that human need and human inter- 
 dependence of nations in this war will create a new internationalism. A number of the nations have been growing closer together ever since the beginning of the war because of their common interest in the food problem. The result of this will be new international relations that will have much to do with an international program for world improvement. Miss Addams appealed to the women of America not to be slackers in the war but to do their part by conserving food, backing health movements and working for the moral betterment of communities. She outlined the way in which women can help by farming, gardening, and economizing in the use of fats, meat and sugar. That the food conservation campaign is taking effect is shown by the fact that collectors of garbage report finding 30% less fat in the cans than before the war and complaints have been made by those who utilize garbage fat as material for soap. Miss Addams said that we should be ashamed of those who can't learn to do such a simple thing as to eat cornmeal and potatoes instead of wheat. In discussing the protection of women and children while the men are at war, Jane Addams suggested that the spinsters and older women be called to work in the munition factories and other war industries, leaving the mothers at home to care for the children. Mrs. Julia C. Lathrop said that the babies must be saved if the American race is to be continued and the mothers and children must be given the fullest protection of law and society to make up for the fearful ravages of war. Miss Lathrop has charge of the Government's campaign to save 100,000 of the 300,000 babies which die each year from neglect and ignorance of mothers and their physicians. She stated that the natural function of childbearing causes more deaths among women between fifteen and forty-four years than any disease except tuberculosis. The typhoid death rate has been cut in two but the death rate for causes incident to maternity do not show a perceptible decrease. She feels that this is the result of neglect. The condition can be overcome only by the education of parents, by prenatal care and proper confinement care. Infant mortality is closely related to women in industry, according to opinions of trained investigators. It is the belief that mothers should be kept in the homes as far as possible to take care of their own children rather than to place them in nurseries and go to work. You cannot save babies if you cannot give mothers advantage. Judge Samuel Lindsey explained some of the causes of delays in the families of soldiers receiving allotments and government allowances. He stated that at the present time there are 27,
 461 papers in suspense because they are incomplete; that there have been 200,000 changes in allotments; that 12,000 checks have come back with the wrong address. As an example of some of the causes for mixup in names, Judge Lindsey stated that there are 100,000 Smiths, 15,000 William Smiths, and 500 Mary Smiths. The War Risk Insurance Bureau is at present occupying six buildings. According to a new plan, the United States will be divided into fourteen districts, each district having a superintendent and a group of field investigators who will be in direct charge of the War Risk Insurance work in the district. Miss Florence Kelley of New York decried the employment of women as street car conductors, elevator pilots and other kinds of work calling for heavy exertion and late hours. "The corporations hire these women," she said, "dress them in uniforms, pay them less than they earn and fool the public into thinking the whole thing is patriotic." "A strong contented army  one which feels it is fighting for an appreciative people  is a necessity to the winning of the war," said Mrs. Leonard Wood, wife of Major General Wood. "The people at home must unite to create this spirit. The men at the front should not be worried about conditions at home. Medical men declare that worry over bad family news or lack of news makes a man susceptible to shell shock." The International Association for Policewomen had a very interesting session. It seemed to be the feeling that there is a nation-wide movement to put women in numbers upon the police forces of every city in the United States. "These women will need no uniforms and no clubs," declared one of their members. The appointment of fifteen policewomen in St. Louis was reported. Much interest was manifested in efforts of the Division on Industrial and Economic Problems to draw up a program of reforms suitable for adoption by this country after the war and representing the views of social workers. The following topics formed a basis for some of the discussions: Federal legislation for  1. Regulating the hours of labor for men, women and children throughout the nation. 2. Guaranteeing a national minimum wage for all workers. 3. Providing for federal insurance against both illness and unemployment. 4. Securing federal pensions for old age, the handicapped, and destitute mothers  probably all in connection with a federal insurance scheme. 5. Taxing wealth for the social purpose of greater economic 
 equality, especially through taxes on incomes, inheritances and land. From the Department on Health, the following points were emphasized: The war will teach the human race the value of sanitary regulations and public health measures. It was the general opinion that the Government should be as interested in the health of the nation as it is in the conservation of food and the control of transportation. The question of tuberculosis is a serious one. Instead of the efforts to combat it being divided up between different societies all over the country and occasional private charities, the Government should enter into the field. The fact that thousands of our soldiers are being rejected at the camps and cantonments because of tuberculosis emphasizes the seriousness of the situation. Malnutrition among school children exists to the extent of 15 per cent of the entire school population. Mothers should take notice of this. The nurse situation is considered to be very serious. The country is rapidly being stripped of trained nurses and when the United States has several million men in Europe, the demand for nurses will be multiplied many times. Many of our young women should look forward to being trained so that they may replace at our hospitals the nurses who go abroad. The task of the women of the country was set forth as twofold; first, to help create public opinion for a single standard of morals, requiring that men live up to the same rules for purity of life that they demand of women; second, to find out what the government's social hygiene program is and cooperate with it. In the discussion on Training Camp Activities, the hope was expressed that the Government will see the necessity of placing all women who work in or near camps under the supervision of women vested with military authority. This will be a protection to women and girls working in laundries, offices, the amusement zone, the telephone exchange, etc. More than 1,000,000 English women and girls are thus protected. A national program for the completion of the great anti-alcohol crusade was suggested. In the department on the Family it was emphasized that haphazard, dole distributing, pauperizing methods should be absolutely done away with, and that instead people should be helped to help themselves. All handicaps should be removed in order that people may have an equal opportunity. In family work, the following items should be taken into account: family life, employment, health, education, recreation, righteousness and religion.