				[CONTINUED.]

	Now I will talk to you mothers. If I were
invited to your house to take supper, or break-
fast to-morrow morning, if you have it within
your reach you will have a platter of meat
cooked, and will put this before your children.
They are hungry, and require something to
satisfy the demands of nature. You place this
before them, and, if they choose, in our coun-
try, they may gorge themselves to overflowing.
You do not stop to ask them if they have esten
sufficient, and ask them now to desist, and eat
moderately. You will let your children eat
green apples and berries of any kind; sit down
and eat fat meat, if they choose it and like it;
and fill their systems with swine flesh, which
is more susceptible of diseases than any other
flesh that we eat. It is not like fish or fowl.
It is susceptible of disease of every kind, and
will impregnate the system with disease far
quicker than any other food that we eat. Now,
mothers, it is well for you to think of these
things. I will tell you how you can enjoy
health. You let your children have a little
milk in the morning. I would prefer putting
it over the fire and boiling it, and put one-
third water in it, with a little flour and a par-
ticle of salt to make it palatable. Give them a
little bread with it—-not soft bread, teach your
children to eat crust—hard baked bread, that
the Americans would call stale, but the Eng-
lish would not. Teach them to eat this, and
to eat sparingly. Instead of drinking un-
healthy water, boil such waters, and let it
stand until it is cool. If the children are in
the least troubled with summer complaint,
and are weak in their bowels, make a weak
composition tea, sweeten it with loaf sugar,
and put a little nice cream in it; and let the
children make a practice of drinking composi-
tion instead of cold water. Mothers, keep the
children from eating meat; and let them eat
vegetables that are fully matured, not unripe,

[Column 2]
and bread that is well baked, not soft. Do not
put your loaf into the oven with a fire hot
enough to burn it before it is baked through, but
with a slow heat, and let it remain until it is
perfectly baked; and I would prefer, for my
own eating, each and every loaf to be no thick-
er than my two hands—can you tell how thick
they are—and I would want the crust as thick
as my hand.
	Now for experience. You see I am creeping
up into years; and I have been from my boy-
hood a person of observation. I have many
and many a time said to children when they
begged for the soft bread, that was not baked
thoroughly, "Look here; you will not live
very long; you will probably come to a prema-
ture grave.” I have noticed invariably the
child that selects the soft bread to be a short
lived person. The children that hunt around
after the crust and eat it, I have noticed en-
dure, live, and continue to live on. Have you
ever noticed this? I have quite aged sisters
here; and I am talking to many that have
children, grand-children, and great-grand-child-
ren, like myself. Have you ever observed this?
If you have not I wish you would commence
to reflect upon it.
	You say you are improving. These societies
are for improvement of our manners, our dress,
our habits, and our methods of living. Now,
sisters take notice, and instruct those who are
not here to-day, to adopt this rule—stop your
children from eating meat, and especially fat
meat; let them have composition to drink in-
stead of unhealthy water; let them eat a little
milk porridge; let them eat sparingly and not
oppress the stomach so as to create a fevar.
No matter whether it is a child or a middle-
aged person, whenever the stomach is over-
loaded and charged with more than is required
it creates a fever; this fever creates sickness,
until death relieves the sufferer. Now the peo-
ple do not think of this. You ought to have
thought of it. I have taught this for years
and years to the people. When we commence
to shape our lives according to the judgment
that is given us, and we exercise a proper por-
tion of thought, and study the laws of life, to
know what to give and how to guide and di-
rect our children and ourselves, we shall find
that the longevity of the people will increase.
Although it is a fact that the longevity of this
people is as great perhaps as that of any other
people at the present time; yet we shall find if
we will hearken to the wisdom our Heavenly
Father has given us, this will increase; and we
shall learn at once that we are enjoying better
health, we shall have greater amount of vital-
ity, and a stronger development of ability, and
by temperance and moderation lay the founda-
tion for the development of the mind. Now,
here let me throw in a side remark. I do not
mean to go without food and go to fasting.
This is the other extreme. A sufficient
amount of food that will agree with the stom-
ach is healthy, and should be partaken of.
Aged or middle-aged, youth or children should
never go without food until their stomachs are
faint, demanding something to sustain their
systems, and continue to undergo this; for this
lays the foundation of weakness, and this
weakness will tempt disease. But keep the
stomach in a perfectly healthy condition. Now
I do not mean fasting, but eating moder-
ately, and if my sisters will go home and com-
mence to adopt this rule, you will find that
you begin to get better, your children and
neighbors will get better. We do not expect
all to be free from sickness. I have had a
great deal of sickness in my life, I do not ex-
pect to be free from the ills, the weakness de-
bility and disease that prey upon the human

[Column 3]
family, but we can amend our ways, and
amend our life by being prudent; and I wish
the sisters to understand this, and to adopt
these instructions; and if you do not learn be-
fore the month of July is gone that your sick-
ness has departed, I shall be very much disap-
pointed. So much for the health of the people.
Will you listen?
			[To be continued.]


﻿OBITUARY:—It becomes our painful duty to
record the death of our beloved sister Eunice
Haynes; who departed this life on Saturday,
Oct. 13. 1877. She died as she had lived, a true
Saint of God, with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was born in the town of Rowe,
Mass., Sept. 28, 1812. She became a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in the year 1843. In the winter of 1846,
in company with her former husband, Walter
Fuller, and five children, she went to New
York for the purpose of emigrating, with a
company of saints who sailed from that port
on the 4th of February in the ship Brooklyn.
Being disappointed in this, she remained in
New York City four years, during which time
she was left without a companion. In 1850
she with her children, went to St. Louis, Mo.
and in Apr. 1852, she was married to John G.
B. Haynes. She had suffered many privations
and hardships which she bore with patience
and fortitude. She emigrated to Salt Lake
City in the Year 1854; has been a member of
the Relief Society of the Third Ward since its
first organization. She was president of the
teachers, always active in the discharge of her
duties which were faithfully performed. She
was ever ready to minister to the sick, the poor,
and the needy.
	We shall miss her in our little circle, but we
know that “our loss, is her eternal gain.”
		MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres’t.
		ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Secretary.


DIED, in Spanish Fork, July 1877, Annie
Marie Christiansen, born June 20, 1818, emi-
grated to this country July 21 1868. She was
a true Latter-day Saint and a faithful worker
in the Relief Society.


DIED, Aug. 14, 1877, Susan Hodgson, born
March 5, 1843. A husband and seven children
are left to mourn the loss of a faithful wife,
loving mother and a true Latter-day Saint.


SPRINGDALE, Oct. 6th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONET:
 On the 22nd of last July, a Relief Society
was organized at this place, with Mrs. Susan
K. Greene President; Mary E, Greene, first,
and Susan E. Homer, second counselors;
Sarah A. Millet Secretary, and Emily Hep-
worth assistant Secretary.  There were present
Bishop Charles N. Smith of Rockville, Elders
Evan M. Greene, John C. Hall and others.
much good instruction was given by the breth-
ren.  We are but few in number, only fifteen
in all; but we rejoice in the Latter-day work
and in our ability to assist its progress, though
in a small way, yet with our whole hearts.
We are in very moderate circumstances finan-
cially, but our trust is in God, that the way
may be opened for us to aid in gathering scat-
tered Israel.
 Ever praying for the spread of truth, we are
your co-workers in the Gospel.
SUSAN K. GREENE, Prest.
