EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies Meetings here in the
Sixteenth Ward have been suspended since
March 27th, as not receiving their portion
of the material for making decorative flow-
ers for the Tabernacle until then, they were
obliged to devote all the time they could
spare thereafter to that work. The meet-
ings are now recommenced. The first was
held on Oct. 25, when after singing and
prayer the roll was called and the minutes
of the last meeting read and accepted.
Counselor Miss Caroline Parry then read a
selection from the EXPONENT, after which
the meeting was addressed by Treasurer
Mrs. M. J. Thompson, President Miss Mary
Williams, and Secretary Miss E. S. Els-
more, all expressing their joy in their re-
union, and willingness to do all that might
be required of them, and expressed an in-
terest in the work of building and minister-
ing in Temples.
	Miss E. S. Elsmore then resigned her of-
fice of Secretary which she held the first
year of the organization as asssistant secre-
tary, and ever since that time as Secretary,
which will be four years January 24, 1878.
Her reason for resigning being that her
place of residence was changed and was
now so far from where they meet, that she
felt she would not be able to perform her
duty as she would wish in that important
office. President Miss Mary Williams then
presented Miss Elsmore in behalf of the
association, the work entitled "The Life of
Brigham Young or Utah and Her Found-
ers," as a token of their appreciation of her
faithfulness in the discharge of her duty as
secretary.
	Miss Elsmore accepted the gift, and said
she had not words wherewith to express
her feelings in this pleasant surprise, and
that words were inadequate to tell how she
would prize the gift, as much in memory
of the donors as for the valuable book itself.
She would regard it as one of her choicest
treasures. Said she had tried to do her
duty, but we do not merit any praise for
doing our duty, as we should do that al-
ways.
	Miss Martha Forsyth was then accepted
as Secretary by the unanimous vote of the
association. It was then moved that the
Association hereafter be known as Mutual
Improvement instead of Retrenchment As-
sociation. This motion was carried unani-
mously.
	 The Association will now meet each
Thursday afternoon at three o'clock p. m.
	MISS MARY WILLIAMS, Prest.
