R. S. REPORTS.
	Synopsis of Annual Meeting of the First
Ward Relief Society, held Thursday June
7, 1877.  After the usual exercises, the
President, Mrs. Chase, made some appro-
priate remarks and introduced Mrs. M. I.
Horne to the audience.  Mrs. Horne ad-
dressed the sisters on the subject of home-
industries, referred specially to the silk-
culture and the tannery, also to the saving
of grain, the building of Temples and the
Woman's Store.  Mrs. Prescendia Kimball
arose and said she felt that Mrs. Horne had
just about summed up the whole field of
salvation for the human race.  One thing
we had which we should justly appreciate,
the fulness of the priesthood, the new and
everlasting covenant by which men and
women can attain unto an exaltation.
These principles, which embrace plural
marriage, should be taught to the daughters
of Zion in such a manner that they may
never allow themselves to speak against
them. Mrs. B. W. Smith remarked so
many good things had been said that she
felt refreshed, and the dinner the sisters
had prepared was refreshing too, especially
the strawberries, which were really delic-
ious.  The brethren taught the same things
that the sisters were teaching.  The com-
plete organization of the church is grand.
The Twelve to preach the Gospel to all the
world, and the First Presidency to watch
over all the organizations. The sisters
should teach their children to pray, and to
begin when young to pay tithing.  We
should watch ourselves and guard those un-
der our care faithfully.  We pray to the
Lord to watch over His kingdom here and
fulfill all righteousness.  We must do our
part. That we may be faithful to every
duty and be prepared to dwell in the pres-
ence of God, is my prayer.  Mrs. M. P.
Young expressed her pleasure in being as-
sociated with her sisters; spoke of home
industry and sustaining each other; also of
being in the United Order; that if we were
thus associated it would be like one strong
cord binding us together, and if one started
off to go alone the cord would be weakened,
but each one that is added makes the cord
stronger.
	Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells said she felt the
kingdom of God was rolling on very fast:
she never realized the extent of the work
of the redemption of the dead as she had
since she had been in the Temple at St.
George.  There were heavenly influences
there.  She loved her religion and desired
to live faithful to every principle contained
in it.  She felt she could bear testimony to
the principles of plural marriage, and taught
her children always to respect it.
	Mrs. Martin B. Young bore her testimony
to the work of the Latter days. She de-
sired to lend her influence toward the es-
tablishment of home manufactures. She
was interested in them all, and the silk-
culture was one of the subjects now before
the Relief Societies.  We should do all we
could in that direction as well as lay up
dried fruit, and dried corn which was an
excellent variety of food in the winter sea-
son.  Pickles was another variety that
could be made at home, they were much
better in quality than those imported; for
those from abroad contained adulterations
which were unwholesome.  In Zion things
prepared by our own people were blessed to
us. Mrs. W. East rejoiced in the privi-
leges and blessings of the Holy Gospel;
said she had received the testimony of Je-
sus, and could say as He said on one occas-
ion, these are my fathers, mothers, broth-
ers and sisters who do the will of God.  She
often contrasted her feelings when left to
herself and when filled with the spirit of
God. The work of God is rolling onward,
do not stand still but put your shoulder to
the wheel and help.  Do not oppose any
principle revealed, even though we may not
be able to see it clearly.  The Lord had
shown her and many other sisters the truth
in regard to plural marriage.  A veil is
drawn between us and the future which we
cannot pierce with our natural eye.  Those
who laid the foundation of this principle
have paved the way, yet no man or woman
could bring forth this mighty work alone,
it was and is beyond their power.  Men
and women without the blessing of God
and His assistance could never establish
home industries.  Great and mighty events
are transpiring and are about to transpire,
and in whatever position we may be called
to labor we are blessed.  When the elders
go among the nations the Lord watches
over them; here we are where the Lord has,
blessed us, and let us be wise virgins.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells bore testimony upon
plural marriage, related a little of her prac-
tical experience on the subject.  Said she
had formed many pleasant and tender as-
sociations which she trusted would be last-
ing, and she hoped to be associated with
those (who had in passing through this
school of discipline become so dear to her)
throughout the endless ages of eternity.
That many thought it was a terrible thing,
but she had found happiness in it.  She al-
so spoke on the storing of grain, of the la-
bor and care it would be for the sisters, but
believed they would be blest in it beyond
what had been anticipated.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney thought that the the-
ory of our religion was good, but we must
live it practically in order to receive the
benefit. We are all organized and classi-
fied in ourselves some of us have capacity
and ability for certain duties and others for
other duties, all of use to make up a whole
and perfect organization.  If we would
seek to understand ourselves and study
good books we could enrich our minds very
much, and we have the sentiments in our
own books and papers, our home literature
that is good for the youth and the aged.
We must add to our libraries.  I've made
it a point to read our Church Books, and
there are powerful testimonies in them of
the truth, some of us have abilities that
are not brought into use, we have not had
advantages in the past as we have now.
The Lord will help us if we look to Him
for assistance and guidance.  I once heard
Br. Brigham Young say "what am I expect
what God has made me?"  The Lord will
qualify His servants and handmaidens for
whatever position He calls upon them to
fill. She made some remarks upon home
industries, the land, the mulberry trees,
the Babylonish customs and fashions, re-
marked that the world was filling up the
cup of iniquity.
	Miss E. R. Snow then addressed the
meeting: said she had sat and feasted on
the words of the sisters; many subjects had
been brought forward that were of great
importance to this people.  Remarked we
were not sent here to consult our own con-
sciences.  She herself entered into the
United Order when she received the Gos-
pel; her whole soul was in the work she
had then embraced, and unless she could
live to accomplish something of worth, she
had no desire for life; her heart was in the
work, and yet how little it seemed one per-
son could do in comparison to the great
work to be accomplished.  The prophet Jo-
seph, in his lifetime, had said whenever
the Church was fully organized there would
always be a Relief Society, and every vir-
tous woman should be a member: chastity
was the test.  We are now so organized
that in doing our duty we are a strong
band, and we can accomplish a great deal
in one grand phalanx, and it is necessary
we should be united.  Are we exercising
all our abilities, all our influence for Zion?
We must put our trust in God, round up
our shoulders, and help to accomplish the
Storing of Grain for Zion.  The Lord has
not called upon us too soon; we can't do
too much in the right direction, and at the
right time.  We had our Grain Mission
late last fall, but we made a good beginning.
Miss Snow alluded to a conversation she
had with a brother in regard to storing up
grain, shortly after the mission had been
given to the sisters.  This brother inquired
of her whether she thought it necessary for
the people in the section of country where
he resided to store up grain, remarking
that it was a grain country, an agricultural
district.  Miss Snow answered him by ask-
ing the question whether they had good
crops secured to them for the next fifty
years.  The brother concluded that it would
be consistent for the sisters to store some
grain.  Miss Snow continued:  "We are co-
operating together—our interests are one,
and all tend to the same object, if we are
working with a true purpose in view." She
considered a sister who stepped forward
and assisted efficiently in home industries,
the silk culture, etc., was doing just as
much as an Elder who went forth to preach
the Gospel.  We must be clothed, and we
ought to manufacture our own cloth; and
to-day there is not as much interest mani-
fested in the subject as there was before
machinery was brought into the country.
We must stop this importation of Babylon-
ish goods.  We have not at present the ma-
chinery here we ought to have to aid us in
home enterprises.  Can the sisters do any-
thing in this direction?  How many of the
sisters in this house have homemade ap-
parel on?  Unless we are saved temporally,
it is useless to talk about being saved spir-
itually.  How many of the sisters here are
represented through home-manufacture in
the "Woman's Store?"  We have visitors
coming there from various nations to see
our home productions; we can represent
you there; it is a testimony that they can
take away with them.  They look around
and see the products of our hands.  Miss
Snow said, "You and I, my sisters, have a
responsibility resting upon us, but I do not
want to stand here making repetitions. I
am happy in my duties, because I know I
am working in the right direction.  We,
my sisters, can dispense with a great many
things, if we only think so.  I would nat-
urally like to have everything elegant and
beautiful around me, but I adapt myself to
my circumstances.  We must make our own
ornaments, our own clothing, and beautify
our own houses.  In the Woman's Store we
have the opportunity of bearing strong tes-
timonies; strangers in calling there are con-
vinced we are an industrious people. Many
good, candid people visit us."  Miss Snow,
in closing her remarks, said "God bless you
and strengthen your hands to labor, and
may you become so interested in Zion and
her future welfare, that you may be able to
rise above all the little perplexities and
annoyances of this life."  Miss Snow then
referred to a lady she had met in Athens,
Greece, whose father printed the first edi-
tion of the Book of Mormon.  This lady
had asked her plain, matter-of-fact questions
about plural marriage:  How men supported
many wives, how they lived together, etc.;
said she did not know what she should do


if her husband was commanded to take
other wives. Miss Snow replied to her,
“Supposing you know that the Lord had
appointed you to do a certain work, that
you had actually come here upon this earth
to perform that peculiar work, would you
not forget all about your own selfish feelings
and go to with all your might in order to
fill that mission?” This is the magnanim-
ity women show who enter into plural mar-
riage; and it refines and elevates them, and
is, one of the greatest cultivators in the
world. It helps womem to become sancti-
fied and holy, and have their names asso-
ciated with holy men, with Apostles and
men of God.
	Miss Snow then introduced to the assem-
bly Mrs. E. A. Whitney, who sang “A Song
of Zion."
	Mrs. Chase, President of the Society,
made a few remarks, expressing herself
pleased with the good instructions of the
sisters. Referred to the cultivation of a
spiritual disposition and gave her ideas of
the union that should  exist among the
Saints.  She felt it was good to have help
from her counselors, and to be united with
them in all duties.
	Counselor Margaret Steel said she was
glad to hear the glorious things that had
been spoken; she felt they had good sisters
in the First Ward, who were prompt in at-
tending their meetings. She made some
excellent remarks about the sisters taking
the EXPONENT; said she felt it was full of
the spirit of the Gospel; thought many
more of the sisters ought to take it and
would be blest in doing so.
	Mrs. E. Higgs thanked the sisters who
had spoken, for their good counsel and in-
struction; said she felt blest in doing her
duty, even in the smallest things; rejoiced
in the work of the Gospel.
	Bishop Warburton spoke encouragingly
to the sisters, applauded their good words
and works; acknowledged the help the Re-
lief Society had given him in assisting him
to care for the Ward, and thanked God for
their assistance.  He blest the sisters who
spent so much of their time in going from
ward to ward and trying to strengthen and
help the different branches of the Society,
felt the blessing of God would rest down
upon them; and desired the day to roll on
when Jesus should reign King of nations,
as he now does King of Saints.


