			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ROMANIA B. Pratt, M. D., continues
her interesting and instructive free lectures to
the Ladies' Medical Class, every Friday after-
noon, as usual, at this office. Also Mrs. Ellen
B. Ferguson, M. D., gives free lectures at the
same place, Saturday afternoon every second
week, at three o'clock.  All ladies desirous of
obtaining knowledge of the laws of life, and
how to preserve their health, and rear children
how to determine in cases of illness, should
improve these opportunities and not fail in
punctuality.

	WE HAVE received the first number of "The
Amateur," edited by Joseph A. West, under
the auspices of the Y. M. M. I. A. of Ogden
City. Its motto "Knowledge is power, Union
is strength." Of course this is experimental,
but we feel sure The Amateur will be success-
ful in its mission. We heartily rejoice in every
new avenue of this sort, which opens for im-
provement among the young people. We trust
it will be widely circulated, and so well sup-
ported, that it may increase in size and become
as popular as any of the publications of the

[Column 2]
Latter-day-Saints. We give The Amateur a
cordial greeting and feel that it has a wide field
of labor before it, in which to sew good seed of
which the reward may be a rich harvest for
Israel.
	ON TUESDAY, Oct. 30, in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, a Quarterly Meeting of the Weber Co.
Relief Society, was held, appointed at the sug-
gestion of President Brigham Young in July
last. A statistical report of the finances of the
Society was read dating back to the organiza-
tion of each separate branch of the Society in
that county. The condition of each Society
in all special respects was also reported in
writing. These reports in the aggregate,
amount to vast sums that have been gathered
in various ways and disbursed to many benevo-
lent purposes. And the Society in its various
branches still holds in trust means invested in
different enterprises, property, etc., such as
has been deemed proper and practicable. This
meeting appointed by President Young, seems
to be a precedent for other branches of the Re-
lief Society to follow. There is a system about
it and correctness such as should exist in trans-
acting all business whether for benevolent pur-
poses or any other. Every person knows that
if the poor are helped, or the sick taken care of
it all requires funds, and whether it is money
or means of another kind, it is nevertheless
tangible, it is not a myth. And a record has
been kept of all means donated in the order of
the Relief Society. Men have been a little
anxious in times past whether women would
make wise use of means at their disposal, but
we think these meetings, where such perfect
accounts are publicly read would dispel the
doubts of those who are troubled on these
points. The weather was inauspicious on that
day, but the meeting was one of great interest
and we trust there may be many similar meet-
ings held throughout the Territory, that the
most thorough understanding may exist on all
matters relating to the building up of the king-
dom of God. The remarks made on that oc-
casion by the sisters were full of wisdom and
rich with inspiration; and the words of bless-
ing and encouragement which fell from the
lips of Apostle Richards at that meeting were
"like apples of gold in pictures of silver."
Some other items of this report will be given
in our next.
	Under the auspices of the Young Ladies As-
sociation at Farmington the people of that
place had a most enjoyable time on Thursday
evening Nov. 8. The young gentlemen and
ladles met together on this occasion, and by
invitation the Bishop and Counselors and
many of the elder brethren and sisters. Prof.
Daynes was invited and went up from Salt
Lake City to preside at the organ; the music
was exceedingly fine. Miss E. R. Snow and
Mrs. E. B. Wells were also present by invita-
tion. Mrs. Lucy Clark, President of the young
ladies presided with ease and dignity. After
the usual opening exercises, the Secretary of
the Young Ladies, Miss Louise Stayner read
the minutes of a previous meeting, and also the
annual report. These minutes were so nicely
condensed as to make them specially interest-
ing. The report showed that the Society had
raised means for the Temple during the year
amounting to $45 15, the greater part of this in
five cent donations.
	A programme had been arranged for the
evening. First was the singing of the Sunday
School Choir, this was followed by a song en-
titled "An address to the Young Ladies," com-
posed by the President Mrs. L. Clark purpose-
ly for the occasion, and sung by Joseph E. and
Dora Robinson, organ accompaniment by Prof.


Daynes. Essay on Marriage, Miss Annie
Steed; Song, Friendship, Miss Minerva Rich-
ards and Miss Clara Miller. Essay on Home,
Miss Minerva Richards, Song, Work Saints
Work, by the S. S. Choir. Select reading by
Miss Wealthy Richards, an article from the
Young ladies Index edited in their society now
in its second volume. Song, What's the Use
of Fretting, Misses Nellie Clawson and Eliza
Miller. Comic reading by Mr. A. Stayner,
Song and chorus, Darling Mother, Mrs. Dora
Robinson. There were also solos by Prof.
Daynes at intervals. Miss Snow then address-
ed the assembly on the subjects of improve-
ment and cultivation of the young, home in-
dustries, the different duties and obligations of
life, and various practical and spiritual subjects.
Mrs. Wells spoke on Storing Grain, and plural
marriage, expressed her pleasure in meeting
with them, etc.
	Bishop Hess spoke a few encouraging words,
acknowledged the help the societies had been
to him. Expressed his pleasure in hearing the
minutes and report of the young sisters, and
told the young brethren they ought to pattern
by them.


