			LETTER II.

	I'm looking down the vista of long years,
		Watching the shadows as they flit and play
	O'er paths I've trod 'mid hopes and doubts and fears;
		Yet have I gathered trasures by the way. 

	What tender associations of friendship
we can recall when we revert to the past.
If we have been constant and true to the
ties we have formed, there is much of sat-
isfaction in it. And if we have bravely
withstood some severe storms and tempests,
leaving ourselves and the event in the
hands of Him Who rules on high, we can
but be glad and rejoice that He has carried
us safely through. It may be that we have
learned others to protect themselves under
similar circumstances. If so, the satisfac-
tion is doubled. We have not only had an
experience that has developed some of our
noblest qualities, but will be of value to
those who are willing to be guided through
difficult and thorny paths. In early years,
when the intelligence of youth is just open-
ing upon all the beauties of nature and of
life, no thought of sorrow or care has yet
impressed itself upon the mind: dreamy,
vague, indistinct imaginings of a world all
brightness, all beauty, all gladness; and
glowing in the distance yet to be developed,
are charming scenes, too deeply and wildly
grand, which fill the ideal soul with all
their graceful and beautiful imagery. If
this illusion could last, if our lives here
were only a pathway of flowers, then per-
haps it would be well for us to allow our
children, and those who are under our
guidance, to go on blindly.
	How many fond, foolish, doting mothers
there are in the world, who allow their
daughters to pass from childhood, and
emerge into womanhood even, without
having any practical knowledge of what
life contains. Innocent, confiding, un-
sophisticated, trusting implicitly, perhaps
blindly, in the purity and goodness of those
who offer them friendship and warmer at-

[Column 2]
tachments, little dreaming, sometimes even
all unconscious of the snares that are oft-
times set for unwary feet, or the many slip-
pery paths and thorny places through which
the journey of life winds. What a vast
deal of nice discrimination and wise judg-
ment a mother needs to give the proper
training and development to her children
to point out the path of virtue, and help
them to shun error, and discipline them in
duty that will result in happiness. To the
untaught and unguarded the terrific shock
may come unexpectedly, like a thunderbolt,
shaking the tender, trusting soul to the very
centre. How many of those we knew when
young, that petted, fondled and flattered,
have passed along their way as it were
gemmed with the beautiful only, a lnxu-
rious home, indulgent parents, walled about
on every hand with warm love, shielding
them from rough contact with the outside
world, where they might come in contact
with poverty, or sorrow, or care.
	Woman's innocent trust, man's wicked,
and ofttimes cruel betrayal, have been the
under-record of society in the past; is it
not time that after long years of bitter ex-
perience, some of us should learn that there
is a better part for women than to be man's
dupe, or slave, or drudge? Will mothers
ever learn that the training of daughters as
well as sons should be such as to develop
powers that will strengthen character, at-
tributes that will prepare them to put into
practical execution the finest talents they
may possess, so that they may learn how to
live without leaning wholly on, or trusting
blindly to another? It seems to me to be
wholly and radically wrong when girls, even
women, marry for a livelihood, marry be-
cause they are not practical enough to earn
their own bread, instead of choosing their
partner to add to the sum of human happi-
ness, and the higher development of wo-
manhood.
	There have been in the far past some wo-
men of intellect and culture, who sought to
inspire in the hearts and minds of their
contemporaries, a disposition to work out
the problem of woman's independence and
higher elevation—some noble souls who
could not see with the eyes of society—per-
chance through the bitter sorrow and long-
suffering of some one of their progenitors,
this enlightenment had come down to them,
working itself out as the problems of life
sometimes will. "Causes will produce ef-
fects." It is the inevitable law of nature.
And I believe mind will act upon mind in a
certain and positive manner, though we
poor, short-sighted mortals understand it
not. When the Lord said "the sins of the
fathers shall be visited upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation," &c.,
we have every reason to believe this worked
itself out through certain principles known
and understood by the Deity—laws which
pertain to the order of our being.
