R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, October 13th, was well attended.
Counselor E. Howard presided. The min-
utes of the previous meeting were a feast
in themselves, and especially to those who
had not been present on that occasion. The
minutes of the young secretaries from the
different wards were replete with food for
thought to both old and young. Counselor
E. Howard was the first speaker; in her re-
marks she alluded to the spirit and power
manifested at the late Conference. She
also made excellent remarks upon Celestial
Marriage and its practice among the Saints.
Miss E. R. Snow in her remarks commented
upon the improvement of the young peo-
ple, the hopes she had of their being com-
petent to do the great work which has yet
to be accomplished in building up Zion.
She explained the change in the business
of the Woman's Store: said that instead of
there being a decrease in the business, the
business was all the time on the increase;
she urged the sisters to sustain this institu-
tion, established expressly for the sale of 
home-manufactures, and to aid in develop-
ing the different branches of home indus-
tries, useful and ornamental. Mrs. E. B.
Wells made a few remarks on the advan-
tages enjoyed by the women of this Terri-
tory, and the extended circulation of the
EXPONENT, the good that was being effected
by it, and the representation it gave the
sisters abroad. Also spoke upon the storing
of grain by women, and read the notice of
the annual meeting and an article written
upon the grain subject. Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards, of Ogden, spoke upon obedience, and
the pleasure she felt in the work of the sis-
ters, and referred to the sisters' meetings
in Ogden, the good results which had al-
ready followed. Expressed her joy and
gratitude in the progress of the kingdom
of God, and said many good things. Mrs.
E. S. Barney made a few remarks, and read
part of a chapter from the "Women of Mor-
mondom."

	General Retrenchment Meeting, Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 27, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The meeting was
a large one; after the usual exercises, read-
ing of minutes, etc., the President of the
Senior Association addressed the meeting.
She gave a synopsis of her visit to Bear
Lake Valley, spoke of the pleasure she had
in visiting the societies in the different set-
tlements. She also alluded briefly to the
sorrow of the brethren and sisters on learn-
ing of the death of President Young, which
occurred while she was in Paris. Re-
marked upon the peaceful influence and
heavenly spirit which seemed to rest upon
all who attended the funeral, and contrast-
ed the circumstances of his death with
that of the Prophet Joseph. Elder Joseph
E. Taylor being present was invited by the 
President to address the assembly. His
remarks were upon the present condition
of Israel, especially the youth; exhorted
mothers to wake up on the subject of re-
form among the young.
	Counselor S. M. Kimball made some pithy
remarks, alluding to the existing state of
governments and society. Mrs. Horne
then made some plain statements of the in-
struction which had been givon to mothers,
from time to time, in the meetings, ever
since the organization of the society. Mrs.
W. East made a few remarks upon the sub-
ject before the meeting.

[Column 2]

