		WOMEN IN REFORM.

	Everywhere people are crying out for reform.
Reform in all circles, in all parties, is declared
positively necessary. The best methods for
bringing about this change of almost all class-
es, of society, and in nearly all countries is
being discussed in public and in private, in
writing and in speaking. It is the theme of
men and of women. They see the great need
but they do not yet find a specific remedy that
can be made practicable, or adapted to the exi-
gencies of the case. Great men and wise men
counsel together, and discuss plans and lay
down rules and regulations, adopt measures,
pass laws, and still the world grows rapidly
worse. Have they forgotten the Scripture that
says positively that "the cup of iniquity shall
be full and running over." Yet there shall be
a people raised up, who will work righteous-
ness in the earth, a chosen people, but these
are so few that they are only spoken of as a
remnant. The law which governs them is to
be the law of God. These are they who are to
build up Zion and redeem the nation. In that
day "men shall run to and fro, and knowledge
shall increase." Is not this the case? Can
anything be plainer than that these things are
being fulfilled? There are many honest heart-
ed and sincere who desire to see a better state
of things and they are seeking to adopt some
wise methods for the cleansing and purify-
ing of society. Many have entered into the
work believing they had a remedy that would
apply and have been disappointed. Some of
the truest hearted and of the soundest judg-
ment have seen the necessity of woman's help,
of woman's voice, of woman's nice discrimina-
tion on the gravest subjects, while others cry
out against her stepping out of her sphere.
Woman is quicker in intuition most men are
willing to admit. Yet they would have her
sit still by her own fireside, while her children
and the children of her neighbors are fast
wending their way to destruction; morally and
spiritually and physically becoming corrupted.
She must sit patiently by and wait for men to
correct these growing evils, and scarcely ven-
ture an opinion lest she should lose caste. In
addition to this she must bear the blame of not
having instilled into the minds of her child-
ren good principles while they were young, or
of some lack of discretion on her part at an
earlier date still; but the father is guiltless, in
common parlance, and yet she must not de-
fend herself in any way unless she can do it at
home—"In her womanly sphere" which men
declare is quite broad enough for her to work
in. How short-sighted are those who are will-
ing to be thus deprived of the blessing of free-
dom that God has given to man and woman
alike. "I do not want to vote, I do not want
anything to do outside of keeping home com-

[Column 2]
fortable." These are the words that we hear
echoed from one to another of the fair sex:
among those who are the good and true moth-
ers and wives. And another class are too much
occupied by frivolity and love of dress; callous
to everything but their own foolish pride and
vanity. Men flatter them, and they feast upon
it, until some day there comes a terrible awak-
ening. But these assertions do not apply to all;
there are many noble exceptions. Women
who are willing to brave the storms, and stand
fast for principle, though public opinion is
against them, sacrificing the finest feelings, and 
even allowing themselves to be deprecated by
persons whose esteem they would fain retain—
yet knowing there are great questions at issue,
at all hazards they lend their utmost aid, leav-
ing the consequences to time, or to "One who
sees not as man sees." The women of this Ter-
ritory have many privileges. They have the
right of Suffrage. Do they appreciate it as
they ought? They have many avenues through
which good may be accomplished, if they can
be made to realize it. The Lord will hold the
sisters responsible for opportunities lost, for has
He not said "where much is given much will
be required?" The women of Utah have some
blessings, social and political, as well as re-
ligious, which the world at large do not enjoy.
If the sisters will sustain, and maintain the in-
stitutions, and enterprises that are even now
open to them, it will not be long before some of
the wise women of the world, will be able to
discern "the better part," and will be willing
to receive knowledge of the laws of life and
measures for reform, from those whom they
now despise and deem ignorant. The Lord is
dealing with the nations, and there are among
them women of such fine intuition that they
comprehend that some steps must be taken;
yet great men, statesmen, diplomatists, and men
versed in law, and in the science of life, moral,
physical and social, stand upon the brink of a
precipice, and while woman reaches ont her
hand to avert the threatening danger—they in
their greatness, their boasted chivalry, refuse
the help, because, forsooth, 'tis offered by wo-
man. Gentlemen, consider well this momen-
tous question of suffrage—only let the trial be
made—have respect to the mothers, wives and
sisters who are now entreating and interceding
that they may help you in the great cause of
universal reform.


[Column 1]
