NOTES AND NEWS.

	MME. THIERS is negotiating for the house
in the Rue Petits Peres, Marseilles, in
which her deceased husband was born, and
will make it a free museum. Among the
contents will be many objects of Art pos-
sessed by M. Thiers.—Ex.
	AS A sign of the times, the Woman's
Journal published the following: In New
York Oct. 29, Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson,
the distinguished philanthropist and mil-
lionaire, was elected president of the New
York Liberal Club, formerly presided over
by Horace Greeley.
	WORKMEN AT JERUSALEM.—Among the
10,500 or 11,000 Jewish inhabitants of Je-
rusalem, there are, according to the "Gates
of Zion"—182 tailors (masters and journey-
men), 98 shoemakers, 86 joiners and car-
penters, 35 turners, 15 smiths, 7 metal
workers, 2 potters, 42 tinmen, 12 gold and
silver smiths, 13 watchmakers, 5 engravers
3 stone-workers, 4 umbrella-makers, 10 book
binders, 5 workers on sewing-machines, 1
weaver, 1 saddler, 3 upholsterers, 3 wire
workers, 1 broommaker, 52 porters, 6 bak
ers, 15 bakers' assistants, 25 printers, 10
millers, 10 scribes, 4 butchors—649 work
men in all.—"Israel's Watchman."
	THE BISHOP of Manchester, in a sermon
preached at the re-opening of Kirkhan
Church, rebuked the disposition among peo-
ple to joke on the subject of the Colorado
beetle. It appears the worthy and learned
Bishop believes in prophecy, and quoted on
that occasion the saying of the prophet—
that God's four tokens of Himself were the
sword, the famine, the pestilence, and the
noisome beast, and remarked that at the
present time these calamities existed, add-
ing that God was coming out of His place,
and was visiting the nations of the earth.
	THE CITIZENS' Suffrage Association, at
Philadelphia, have presented to Mrs. Ruth-
erford B. Hayes an Address, setting forth
the reasons why there is need of the ballot
for woman. We cannot now publish this
address in full, as we did not receive it in
time. We will give it space in our next
issue, as we desire to lend our aid in behalf
of Woman's Suffrage. The "Philadelphia
Inquirer" of Oct. 24, comments thus:
	WASHINGTON, Oct 23,—Mr. Robert Pur-
vis, at the request of the Citizens' Suffrage
Association of Philadelphia, waited upon
Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes to-day, and pre-
sented to her the address adopted by that
body.
	Mr. Purvis writes: "I have just returned
from a very satisfactory and delightful in-
terview with Mrs. Hayes. She received
me most cordially. I read to her the elo-
quent address from the Woman's Suffrage
Association. She listened with marked at-
tention, was grateful for the high favor con-
ferred upon her, and sent her best wishes
for the success of the cause. I made refer-
ence to the fact that the address bore the
honored name of Lucretia Mott, which she
received with a ready acknowledgment of
her great worth and usefulness, pre-emi-
nently distinguished as a reformer and a
philanthropist."


