A VOICE FROM DIXIE LAND	

Though we in this the southern extremity
of our Territory, this remote, obscure cor-
ner of the earth have been, as it were, shut
out from society and the world in general,
by rugged rocks and barren sand-plains, and
have fancied ourselves secure from the out-
side element, which has been floating
through other parts of the Territory, on ac-
count of the almost impassable roads which
have to be traversed to reach us, the mines
which have been opened up in this vicinity
are beginning to dispel such illusions. They
are, and will be, the means of introducing
into our midst (with the aid of some who
think more of a few dimes than of their
religion, or the well-being of the communi-
ty) the filth and corruption which usually
attend, and I may say are the predominat-
ing  elements of mining camps. Some of
the settlements not far distant from St.
George are already beginning to feel the
effects of their close proximity to these
camps, with their accompanying dens of
vice and iniquity, and their corrupt, de-
graded inhabitants; not but there may be
and are, many honorable men who follow
the occupation of mining, and upon this
class I desire not to cast an unjust, or an un-
fair reflection.
	Up to the present time this has usually
been a quiet little place, with little or
nothing to break the monotony of every-
day life. Many of our young people, who
have lived here since early childhood, know
nothing of the outside world, except what
they have read and heard.
	But will that always be the case? I fear
not; the indications at present are, that
this quiet little nook, where a few years
ago every face we met was familiar, will
soon be overrun with tramps, and a disrep-
utable class of various grades. Now the
question arises, to what class of men will
these terms apply? I will give my version,
though I may be wrong.
 The first is the man who is honorable
enough to show his colors; who is too idle
and shiftless to work and gain an honest
livelihood, and makes the fact manifest by
wandering about from place to place in filth
and rags, obtaining a subsistence as best he
can by sponging, and, when hard pushed,
will perhaps resort to theft; and though
many of them are dangerous characters,
they are no worse than their appearance
would indicate, so that people may be on
their guard.
	Another class, from whom there is much
to fear and dread, are men who make a fine
appearance, whose apparel is faultless, who
are well-behaved, and to all outward ap-
pearances are real gentleman. But oh! if
we could only have a view of the inner life,
what would we discover? A fiendish de-
sire to destroy that which is pure and chaste;
a heart susceptible only of the basest pas-
sions, black as midnight, and callous with
continued disipation and vice, until con-
science has forgotten her duty, and is for-
ever silenced. And is it possible that such
fiends in human shape, fit inmates for the
lower regions, and to become subjects of
his Satanic Majesty, the lowest of the low,
have led astray some of the daughters of
Zion? Yea, verily. And how have they
accomplished their wicked designs?  Often
by subtle hipocrisy; by polite attentions
and studied consideration; by flattery and
vain praise, and in various ways; thus be-
traying gradually and dragging them down
to misery, degradation and sorry, from
whence it is hard for them ever to rise; and
never can they attain their former position
of purity. I believe this, in many instan-
ces, is caused from a lack of proper training
and good counsel and watchcare by parents;
and often, no doubt, from a vain and fool-
ish desire to be noticed and flattered.
	O my sisters! is it for this our parents
have left their homes in far-off countries,
traversed the trackless deserts, and suffered
the privations and hard strife incidental to
the settling this rugged, barren country? to
raise daughters who will disgrace and dis-
honor their gray hairs? And will we, the
young women of the South, who have had
every advantage of being taught better,
who are blessed with a beautiful and holy
Temple in our midst, a sacred buillding 
reared to the name of the Most High God,
a house into which we are privileged to en-
ter and receive blessings which we can re-
ceive no where else on earth, shall we fall
from our high estate and forfeit these great
blessings, and receive condemnation? God
forbid. Rather let our bodies be laid in an
untimely grave, with a spotless, unblem-
ished name, and our spirits return to our
Father, pure as when they came. For what
would life be without virtue? Only a bur-
then and a curse. Then let us, my young
sisters, shun the very appearance of evil,
be very circumspect in our conduct, and
never allow any familiarity, or impropriety
in the demeanor of our associates; let us
hold our name and reputation so sacred that
no spot or blemish shall tarnish them.
	But we know not what we may do until
we are tried by circumstances. But my
prayer is that we may take warning by the
experience of others, listen to the good
counsel which we receive, and remain firm
and true to the gospel of truth, never swerv-
ing from the path of virtue and integrity,
truth and honor, until the end.
	St. George, Oct. 27, 1877. 	KATE.


