FIFTH WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

	This Woman's Congress was held in
Cleveland, Ohio Oct. 10, Miss Abby W.
May of Boston, President of the Executive
Committee presided; Dr. Alida C. Avery
of Colorado was elected Secretary pro tem.,
in the absence of the regular Secretary.
There were morning, afternoon and even-
ing sessions, continuing three days. The
papers read by the different contribu-
tors, are all of them deeply interesting to
all candid and earnest thinkers either men
or women. These several papers on the
various subjects discussed published in
pamphlet form and circulated throughout
the United States and Great Britian would 
certainly open the eyes of some of the in-
different on these vital subjects and cause
light to shine in upon the darkness which
exists in the minds of many. When wo-
men of such superior intellect and ability
unite together in a Grand Council the world
may readily anderstand that there is a
meaning attached to it, and they may look
for revolution or reform; for the consequen-
ces are sure to be of a nature characteristic
of the movement and of the instigators.
We are glad to see the women of America
so heroically espouse their own cause and
that of universal freedom and privileges
alike to men and women. One item in Mrs.
Sara J. Spencer's discussion of the paper of
the Rev. Antionette Brown Blackwell, on
"Work Adapted To The Workers," which
was read during the morning session of
the first day, struck us forcibly as being
peculiarly applicable to mothers wives etc.,
it was this. She spoke with considerable
sarcasm of "what some wives and mothers
receive for looking after the interests of
the household, and inquired if treating the
measles and whooping cough is not worthy
of pay what is? She thought the labors
performed by the mother above value, but
believed that a certain portion of the hus-
band's earnings were very justly the
wife's."


A STRONG, free and happy womanhood
seems to demand, in addition to moral,
mental and physical culture, such a direc-
tion of practical energy as will make self-
support as easy as it is for men.—Anna C.
Garlin.


