[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman. Mrs. Thurza Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan mission, writes that the visit to the Samoan mission last summer of Elders D. O. McKay and H. J. Cannon was a remarkable and historical event; indeed it was an advent of a lifetime for Saints, elders and strangers alike—a time of inspiration and spiritual uplift and rejoicing.. Among all the varied activities incident to conference in the two island conferences visited, no meeting was superior to the Relief Society conference. Elder McKay's inspiring discourses to the women assembled were enthusiastically received and untold good will result from them. He spoke of the aims and purposes of the work and related incidents of the devotion of Relief Society workers. In referring to the work of the women of the Bible, he said the woman best typifying the work of the Relief So- 'aye gah: Arn) Be at a APOSTLE DAVID 0. MC KAY AND ELDER HUGH J. CANNON AND THE SAMOAN RELIEF SOCIETY ciety is Dorcas. Her example was full of good works and also good deeds. She helped the poor, comforted the sick, and visited the widows and orphans. He paid tribute to the mothers who unselfishly bear and bring up children, and blessed them for their mission. He also spoke of the sanctity of the marriage vow, and urged the women to be true Latter-day Saint women.  Mrs. Adams says the Relief Society work is growing rapidly in Samoa. The accompanying picture of the Relief Socie y women assembled at the conference gives evidence of this. With the esteemed visitors, Elders McKay and Cannon and the beautiful setting of tropical trees and plants, the picture is most interesting and attractive. Oneida Stake. During the last summer, Miss Grace Gallett, of Boise, Idaho, — the Health Crusade worker of the state Anti-Tuberculosis Association, visited the county, visiting all the schools which were still open. A mass meeting in each ward was called and conducted by the ward Relief Society officers, in which Miss Gallett gave a lecture showing how parents and teachers may co-operate in teaching health habits to the children. She visited the schools, telling stories to the children about germ dragons and how the Crusade Knights may have power to kill them. A picture illustrating the story proved very effective in creating a desire in the children to become real Crusaders by doing the simple health chores required. Miss Gallett also worked with the teachers with good results, in arousing their interest in this wonderful health work. The service of Miss Gallet was secured by request of the Oneida stake Social Service Committee. Commencing June 6, 1921, a second campaign for better health was conducted by the Social Service Committees, of Oneida and Franklin stakes combined. The services of Miss Anna Esbensen, formerly the Aida county nurse, was secured from the Idaho State Anti-Tuberculosis Association. A sys-: tematic schedule was made for her visits throughout the county, The county commissioners and marshal were very kind in conveying the nurse from one ward to the other. In each ward a baby or children's clinic was held in which all children of preschool age were weighed, measured, and examined for physical defects. Nutrition classes were conducted in which 'mothers received instruction as to proper feeding of children. The physicians generously gave their services wherever possible. Throughout the county there were 724 children examined. Some follow-up work will be carried on that none of these little ones, having physical defects, may be neglected. The Oneida stake Relief Societies, led by the stake Genealogical Society, spent a day at the Logan temple. This proved to be one of the most successful excursions ever conducted in one day at the Logan temple. There were 295 Relief Society officers, members, and their husbands from the stake. Two companies were conducted through twice. All present felt the  spirit of rejoicing among those whose work was done for them, as certainly as if it might have been audibly expressed. Central States Mission. The St. Joseph, Mo. Relief Society has sixteen members, who are faithful in their duties and also in attending meetings. Mrs. Rosa Hull, the president, is ably assisted by Mrs. Martha Keatley and Mrs. Sarah George, as counselors. Mrs. Lenore ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI RELIEF SOCIETY Nielson as secretary and treasurer and Mabel Christensen as class leader. Meetings have been held regularly and the lessons as outlined in the Magazine have been greatly enjoyed. At present the menibers are engaged in making quilts, which will be sold and the funds used for relief purposes. Many families during the prevailing hard times have been helped with food and clothing and many have been impressed by the way these noble women are teaching the gospel by example as well as by precept. The Joplin, Missouri, Relief Society, which has been an energetic organization, was divided in July into two groups to be known as the Joplin branch and Webb City branch. The funds in the treasury were divided equally between the two branches. The officers of the Joplin branch are Mrs. Clara Woodworth, president; Mrs. Lillian Camp, first counselor; Mrs.  Mollie Cater, second counselor; Mrs. Susan Poole, secretary and treasurer. The Webb City officers are Mrs. Sarah Day, president; Mrs. Minnie Morgan, first counselor; Mrs. Cenia Roop, second counselor, and Mrs. Grace Jacobs, secretary and treasurer. The meetings for the fall season have begun and class teachers have been appointed in each organization to supervise the lesson work. South Sevier Stake. More than 150 relatives, and a few of those who had been her intimate friends during her lifetime, met recently in a social gathering in the South ward chapel in honor of the 102d birthday anniversary of Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn, born at Tolland, Mass., August 2, 1819, of a splendid Colonial family. Their first American ancestor, Thomas Gleason, came from England to America in about 1636. 'Sister Washburn joined the Church in her girlhood, and gathered with the Saints and lived with the family of Uncle John Smith, the uncle of the Prophet Joseph. At Macedonia, 22 miles from Nauvoo, she is said to have been appointed the second president of a Relief Society in the Church. After the death of the Prophet Joseph, she went to live with the family of B. F. Johnson in the Mansion House, Nauvoo. When the Saints came west, she drove her own mule team to Salt Lake City. In November, 1850, she and her husband with a company of others, were called to settle Sanpete. The next day after moving to Manti, November 22, she gave birth to a baby girl, the first white child born in Sanpete county, Almeda Washburn Wingate. This daughter celebrated her golden wedding in Monroe six years ago. Sister Washburn was a teacher in the first Relief Society in Manti, and later was president, which position she held until she, with her family, moved to Monroe, in 1872, when she was elected first president of Relief Society in Monroe. Few people in our state have given such splendid unselfish service to mankind as Sister Washburn. In the early days of the settling of Sanpete Valley she divided her one large room, taking onehalf for herself and family, and giving a fourth each to two young married couples, Willardson and Scow who had just arrived from Denmark. She taught many emigrant women how to make a living in this country. She nursed the sick, fed and clothed the unfortunate, and cared for the dead, devoting her life to the service of God and her fellow men. She also did a great work in the temple. A very timely program was given on the occasion, conduct-  ed by O. P. Washburn. Among the especially interesting features were: Brief history of Mrs. Washburn and her Gleason ancestors; Genealogical record and reminiscences by old acquaintances, showing that there are nearly 400 descendants of Abraham and Flora Gleason Washburn. After the program the company went into the amusement hall adjoining, where refreshments were served, after which an enjoyable social hour was spent. THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. Amy Brown Lyman. The biennial meeting of the National Council of Women was held in Philadelphia, November 10-16, 1921. Although the sessions covered seven days, with three sessions daily, which was an unusual period of time for the biennial, they were interesting and profitable throughout. In fact, it was the general concensus of opinion that this was one of the most interesting and educational biennials ever held. An innovation was the holding of department meetings, one whole day being devoted to a discussion of department problems. Twenty-seven out of the thirty-six national organizations affiliated with the Council were represented by duly accredited delegates, some organizations sending as high as four and six delegates. In the official roster of affiliated organizations, which are arranged according to seniority of membership, the National Woman's Relief Society and the National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association stand second and third, respectively, both organizations having been charter members of the Council. They were represented by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman of the Relief Society and Mrs. Emily Caldwell Adams of the Y. L. M. I. A. Mrs. Philip N. Moore, who has served as president of the National Council for six years, and who was re-elected for the next biennial period against her own protest, was most charming and gracious, and presided with efficiency and dignity, being master of the situation at all times. She was supported and assisted by the capable vice-presidents, Mrs. Nathaniel E. Harris, Mrs. Frances E. Burns, and Professor Marian P. Whitney. At the formal opening meeting. The delegates were welcomed by Mayor J. Hampton Moore, of Philadelphia, his charming wife, and the local chairman, Mrs. Frederick Schoff. The president responded graciously, expressing appreciation for the hearty welcome. There were greetings by letter, cablegram, and telegram, from the various National Councils of the world, from  officers and members of the International Council of Women, including a most cordial letter and greeting from Lady Aberdeen, for many years president of the International Council of Women, from the members of the President's cabinet, ambassadors of the allies, chairman of the League of Nations, and many individuals. Among the various subjects discussed, the limitation of armaments and world peace were given most consideration. Among the speakers were men and women who have made a study of national and international relations. There were also a number of women doctors and social workers who have been ovrseas, working in the grief-stricken, famine-ridden countries of the world. The descriptions of these overseas workers, of the sad condition, sorrow, and suffering prevailing in Central Europe, the Balkan districts and Asia Minor, as a result of the war, brought tears to the eyes of the listeners, and confirmed the opinion that there must never be another war. The speakers were all united in the thought that the most vital necessity in the world today is peace, and an assurance of permanent peace, also that peace can best be secured by limitation of armaments, and an association of nations. A resolution was later adopted favoring limitation of armaments, and an association of nations; also protest against the use of gas and poisonous fluids in warfare, After four years and a half spent in the Far East, one worker, a physician, concludes that the real sufferers in war are women and children, and in her opinion the voice of woman should be heard in all councils where the subject of peace or war is being considered.: A committee of representative women were appointed from the Council to attend the Armistice Day ceremonies in Washington, D. C., and to witness the burial of the unknown soldier of America. Mrs. Emily Adams, of Utah, was among the number appointed. Other matters considered were health, education, child welfare, better films, immigration, moral standards, industrial problems, etc. These subjects were first discussed in department meetings and later brought into the general session, where they were considered, and where resolutions along progressive lines were finally adopted. In connection with these subjects, the various bills before Congress relating to educational, industrial and social legislation, were discussed, and many of them indorsed, including the maternity bill, which has been passed by Congress and has since been signed by the President of the United States; the Educational Bill, providing for a Department of Education, etc. Among the resolutions upon which  there was much favorable comment was one introduced by the Y. M. M. I. A. On prohibition of cigarettes. Varied and interesting were the reports of the affiliated national organizations and one was impressed with the tremendous amount of educational and welfare work being carried on by the women of America. The two Utah delegates were very proud to report the work of their respective organizations. It was unanimously decided by the Council to accept the offer of the George Washington Memorial Association of a room for national headquarters for the Council in the Victory Memorial Building which is to be a memorial to the soldiers of America from '76 to 718, the cornerstone of which was only recently laid. The cost of the room will be $5,000 and it was decided to raise the amount by soliciting life patrons at $100 each from among the present members, and memorials in memory of departed members. The room will be known as the National Council Headquarters, established as a memorial to the founders of the Council: Susan B. Anthony, May Wright Sewell, Blizabeth Cady Stanton, Frances Willard and Rachel Foster Avery. Some of the noted guests were asked to speak on the greatest problem before the world. One said limitation of armaments; another comradeship and understanding between nations; another, internationalism; and the last, diarmament and the establishment of friendly relations between nations. While it was agreed that women should take part in the world's work today, and that they should have a voice in legislation and government, there was a plea for conservatism and wisdom on the part of women, and the thought was ever before the conference that the greatest work of women is home-making and the bearing and rearing of righteous children. In a social way there were musical luncheons, teas, auto rides to Valley Forge and to Bryn Mawr College, and visits to historical places in Philadelphia. The newly elected officers for the next two years are 'as follows: sires President, Mrs. Philip North Moore. First Vice-President, Mrs. Millicent E. Haws, National Council of Jewish Women. - a Second Vice-President, Mrs. Thomas G. Winter, President National Federation of Clubs. Third Vice-Presdient, Mrs. Stanley McCornick, National League of Women Voters. Fourth Vice-President, Mrs. Anna Gordan, President National Women's Christian Temperance Union.  Recording Secretary, Mrs. Mary North, Ladies of the G. A. R. Corresponding Secretary (Left vacant pending the appointment of a paid executive secretary.) Treasurer, Dr. Emma Bower, Ladies of the Maccabees. Auditor, Mrs. Ruth May Fox, National Y. L. M. I.. A. Chairmen of committees were appointed as follows: Better Films, Mrs. Myra Kingman Merriman, National Federation of College Women. Child Welfare, Mrs. Frederic Schoff, National Child Welfare Association. Community Music, Mrs. D. A. Campbell, National Federation of Music Clubs. Education, (a) College and University, Prof. Marian Whitney, Vassar College; (b) Public and Normal (not appointed.) Equal Moral Standards, Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, President National Florence Crittenden Mission. Finance, Mrs. Frances E. Burns, Ladies of Maccabees. Immigration, Mrs. Samuel Rosensohn, National Council of Jewish Women. History, Miss Lucy Anthony, (niece of Susan B. Anthony.) Legislative Committee, Mrs. Maude Wood Park, President National League of Women Voters. Permanent Peace, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead, Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. Public Health, Dr. Elizabeth Thelburg, Medical Women's National Association. Trades and Professions, M'ss Mary Anderson, Director of Women in Industry Dept. Of Labor. Washington, D. C. Extension, Dr. Josephine Kenyen, Y. W. C. A. Memorial and Permanent Headquarters, Mrs. Eliza B. Daggett, National Women's Relief Corps. Incidental to attending the National Council of Women, Mrs. Lyman and Mrs. Adams attended the conference of the American Child Hygiene Association in New Haven, Connecticut, 'Mrs. Lyman having been appointed an official delezate by Governor Mabey. They also visited various welfare agencies in New York City and New Haven. Last, but not least, they attended L. D. S. Services in New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, and a Relief Society conference in Chicago, with the three Chicago Relief Societies.: