[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV Social Service - PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY AND THE HOME]

LESSON IV. Social Service Fourth Week in March. PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY AND THE HOME. According to the ancient Greeks, the body is the outward symbol of health and beauty of the soul. The mediaeval thinkers, on the other hand, saw in the body only sensuality. Man's fleshly nature was regarded as an obstacle which hinders spiritual development. The Latter-day Saints view the physical body of man somewhat as did the Greeks; it is the sacred tabernacle of the spirit. The soul of man, or man in his perfect state, is the union of the body and the spirit. The body is furthermore the means through which the spirit develops its powers. Health, vitality, endurance, are essential to the moral, intellectual, and spiritual development of man, as well as basic to the enjoyment of life. Although many who have been handicapped by weak physical constitutions, have attained greatness, many more have failed to succeed because of poor health. And it is reasonable to suppose that those of poor health who did succeed would have made even greater success if this handicap had not existed. We are concerned here not so much with the general problem of health as we are with the question of health in relation to the home. Two questions should be answered in this and the following lesson: (1) how does the question of health affect the home? And (2) how can the home control the conditions of health? WHY PARENTS SHOULD HAVE GOOD HEALTH. Without question there is no responsibility in life that draws more heavily upon physical vitality than that of home leadership. The great majority of men who support families in our communities are compelled to devote the greater part of their lives to hard work. The average man during a period of thirty or forty years will have some members of his family depending directly upon his earning power. Since the great majority of the heads of families are men whose income depends entirely upon their labor, it follows naturally that when their strength fails, their income discontinues. Nor is the demand made upon the physical vitality of the wife and mother less severe than that made upon the husband and father. As a housewife and mother, there will come to her life few vacations. The average woman works early and late 58 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and all the time. When she is ill, the entire family suffers. All household duties are neglected, the discipline of the children breaks down. More important than as a housewife, is woman as a mother; and to perform this function requires even more physical vitality and nerve energy. To give birth to children, and to care for them properly, is a task that demands all the strength, energy, and health that God has given the average woman. SIGNIFICANCE OF PREVENTIVE MEASURES IN MATTERS OF HEALTH. Poor health is frequently due to carelessness; often it is the result of ignorance; but sometimes it is due to conditions over which the parents have no control. But whatever may be the cause, it is the spirit and purpose of our organization to remove suffering and lighten human burdens, wherever and whenever occasions present themselves. We are quite sure, however, that to educate the young men and women, both single and married, to a realization of the importance of health and to train them in the method and conditions of health is more economical than to care for them when they are sick. The schools are doing a great deal in this respect, but the home can do even more; it can put into effect the principles of health taught in the schools; it can make the health ideals actual habits of life. These principles of health can best be impressed upon the mind of youth if parents themselves show proper respect for their own bodies. Too often a father or a mother will make unwise and. Unnecessary sacrifices of their own health in order to carry on the ordinary home duties. This attitude of parents toward their own bodies is sure not to stimulate in the minds of their children the importance of health, and moreover it will sooner or later render the parent less efficient. Young people are inclined to lessen their vitality through reckless pursuit of amusements and through dissipation; parents often sacrifice their own health through the daily life of toil. Our aim should be to have every member of the family, from: the youngest to the oldest, occasionally examined by an expert physician. This examination will reveal whether the body is in proper condition and whether improper and unnecessary sacrifices of health are being tolerated either in child or parent. It may be better economy to employ a doctor before we break down in health, than afterwards. And it is sure to have real educational value.  QUESTIONS, 1, What is the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints regarding the relation between the body and the spirit? How do we define the soul of man? 2. What evidence can you present to show that a good mind requires a healthy body? 3. In what way does poor health affect the welfare of the home? 4. Why should (a) the father and (b) the mother enjoy health? 5. What justification can you give for physical examination, even though you are apparently in perfect health? 6. Describe (a) the man (b) the woman, whom you consider physicially fit for marriage. 7. In relation to health education, justify the expression, "An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure."