[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings James H. Anderson Italy was greatly disturbed in November, by political riots in which many persons were killed. In Russia, typhus fever is reported as claiming its thousands of victims in the autumn months of 1921. Lord Reading, of England, or Rufus Daniel Isaacs, is the first Jew to be made viceroy of India. The L. D. S. Temple site at Mesa, Ariz, was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant on November 28. He was accompanied by Prest. A. W. Ivins and Prest. Rudger Clawson. American troops are being withdrawn from Germany, the first contingent having started home the last week in November. Japan is willing to reduce naval armament according to American suggestion, but retains her hold on Siberia. The anti-beer bill, forbidding unlimited doctors' prescriptions for beer in the United States, became a law on November 23. President Harding's idea of an association of nations for peace was received with favor in November and December, but the detail of working it out is still "in the air." In India, in November, a detatchment of British troops was massacred, and shortly previous thereto, 64 natives were smothered to death in a railway car where they were confined as British prisoners. Sixteen high school students were killed near Red Blufi, Calif. On November 30, when a railway train ran into a motor bus carrying children. The United States, Great Britain and Japan all have stopped building battleships pending action by the limitation of armament conference in Washington.  Premier Briand, of France, in the limitation of armament conference at Washington, gave notice that France could not reduce armament in existing conditions, then left for home. Archaeological discoveries made recently near Phoenix, Arizona, show conclusively that two civilizations existed in the Salt River valley prior to the present native population. Ireland was granted the dominion status known as a free state in the British empire, the first week in December, and the trouble there with the British government has quieted down for the present. Strikes occurred in various parts of the United States during October, November, and the early part of December, mostly failures, but persisted in, thus showing the general unrest prevailing. A new revenue law was passed by Congress in November, but it was not satisfactory, and in his message to Congress in December, President Harding recommended many changes. The limitation of armament conference in Washington. Up to the first week in December, had agreed on reducing battleships both in number and construction, but the more expensive and destructive means of modern warfare, such as airplanes, submarines, chemical bombs and poison gases, was untouched. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING Maria Padin Fernandez, 120 years of age and the oldset woman in Spain, died in November. Christine Nilsson, the great operatic soprano, died at Copenhagen, Denmark, on November 22, aged 78 years. The National League of Women Voters met in Chicago, Ill., December 1, 2, and 3, and arranged for the study, by the women, of political questions. The costume of eighty stage girls at a Paris, France, theatre, in November weighed 46 pounds in all—mostly beads.  Miss Lucy VanCott, dean of the women at the University of Utah, filed an effective protest in November against profanity in college yells there. Women are displacing service men in employment in Great Britain by thousands, and in December the service men made a great public protest. Miss Katherine S. Deveril and Miss Frances C. Kyle. Just qualified as barristers in the courts of Great Britain, are the first women in that land to attain the distinction. Mrs. J. F. Gardner, of Salt Lake City, Utah, has invented a speedometer to place on the exterior of automobiles, so the rate of speed can be ascertained by others than the chaffeur. A high English social authority announced in London in November that American women are more companionable with one another than are the women of other nationalities. Women delegates were selected in December, in several States, to take an active part in the good roads convention in Chicago on January 17 to 20, 1922. Girls in Austria are now advertising freely for husbands. The advertised conditions, however, show that these girls are not willing to trust themselves to "trash" in male article. The Duchess of Albany, aunt of King George of Great Britain, won first prizes at the London British-grown-vegetable show in October, for beets, yellow tomatoes, and oyster plant. 'The first breach of promise case in France where the plaintiff secured damages was tried in November, a Frenchman who had jilted his fiancee on the eve of the date of the wedding having to pay her 2000 francs. The Bishop of London, England, made a public protest in November against "over-smoking, over-exuberance, and swearing, by young women." The significance of the necessity of such protest is apparent.  At the National Council of Women in Philadelphia, recently, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and Mrs. Emily C. Adams, of Utah, secured the passage of an anti-cigarette resolution, to be supported by the women in various States. In Great Britain in 1920, there were less than one-third the number of women in prison than there were in 1914, according to official announcement in November. It was not so with the men prisoners. Dr. Letitia Fairfield, British medical officer, announced in November that "girls ought not to play football, box, or motorcycle," if they place any value on their health. Princess Mary, daughter of King George of England, was betrothed to become the bride of Viscount Lascelles, an English military officer, between Christmas and Dec. 51, 1921. The princess is said to be quite a home-woman, but far from being homely. Gandhi, who headed the anti-British movement in India in 1921, met his real defeat there when he forbade the women of India to wear the finer English weaves for dresses, as the Hindu women resolutely refused to obey his mandate. Miss Annie Mathews, elected to take the office of register in New York City on January 1, 1922, gets a salary of $12,000 a year—the highest official salary to a woman in the United States. She says she will permit women to wear whatever clothes pleases them. Madamoiselle Mistinguett, the famous French comedienne, when on the liner France crossing the Atlantic in November, was announced by the master of ceremonies at a steamer banquet as "the foremost European vedette for thirty years." She regarded the reference to her age as an insult, and refused to appear. Lucy Gage Gaston, who has severed her connection with the Anti-Cigarette League of America, is now forming a new organization to be known as the "Clean Life Movement," according to press reports. Its adherents will be pledged not only against cigarettes, but against tobacco in any and every form, and to lead a clean life morally. When tobacco is prohibited the morals of our youth will be greatly improved. Eightythree per cent of the boys who use tobacco have practiced sex immoralities.