[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Vocational Guidance Dr. John T. Miller]

Vocational Guidance By Dr. John T. Miller In the lessons on Social Service, printed in the Relief Society Magazine, on page 247, of the April, 1921, issue, the need for vocational guidance is very forcefully stated in the following words: "The wise selection of a vocation and proper vocational training are among the most serious problems that confront the modern youth. They have generally received too little attention from parents, teachers and community leaders. Wise decision in these matters concerns not only the future usefulness and happiness of individuals, but also the stability and prosperity of the nation." This statement harmonizes with one made by United States Commissioner of Education, P. P. Claxton, in Bulletin No. 19, which was issued by his department, in 1918. He says: "In our complex industrial and social life it is little less wasteful to leave boys and girls without assistance and guidance in selecting their occupations and finding their employment than it would be to leave them unaided in obtaining education." There is now a general agreement regarding the needs for vocational guidance, but there is a great difference of opinion concerning the method of giving the help. The most popular method of recent years has been the "Trial and Error" method, which is recommended on page 248 of the April Relief Society Magazine. This is the method that Benjamin Franklin's father used a century and a half ago. Young Benjamin wanted to be- 'come a seaman, and his father did everything that he could to prevent this. Franklin's father was a tallow-candler, and young Benjamin in his autobiography says: "There was all appearance that I was destined to supply his place and become a tallow-candler. But my dislike to the trade continuing, my father was under apprehensions that if he did not find one for me more agreeable I should break away and get to sea, as his son Josiah had done, to his great vexation, He therefore sometimes took me to walk with him, and to see joiners, bricklayers, turners, braziers, etc. At their work, that he might observe my inclination, and endeavor to fix it on some trade or other on land." It is evident that Benjamin Franklin did not find his voca-  tion in that way, because the vocations in which he rendered his greatest service to humanity were not within the realm of his observation during his boyhood or youth. He lived nearly 85 years and was engaged in the following vocations: "Soap-boiler, candle-dipper, student, printer, author editor, postmaster, member of legislature, colonel, member of Continental Congress, one of the framers of the Declaration of Independence, inventor, scientist, philosopher, successful man of business, philanthropist statesman, diplomat, and member of 'the convention that framed the Constitution of the United States." Some of these may not be counted as vocations, but it is evident that few men in the history of the world have shown such versatility and adaptability. In this age of specialization it might be impossible to succeed in so many different vocations, but by the trial and error method there are some who try as many different vocations as Benjamin Franklin did. There is a more scientific method of directing young people to the vocation to which they are best adapted. This consists in making a thorough study of the developments, talents and tendencies of the youth and to learn the demands of the most common vocations. There are now nearly ten thousand different vocations required to do the world's work, and everybody must select one of them for himself. Many young people in the country become eminent later in life through vocations that they have no opportunity to observe in the community where they grow up. More than twenty years ago when the writer was teaching psychology and education in the Brigham Young University he was seriously studying this vital problem of vocational guidance and was consulted by many of the students. He met some of these, years later, and they testified that they had been successful and happy in the vocation that had been suggested to them and for which they had prepared. One of the most successful dentists of Utah wrote a few years ago stating that he had no. Thought of specializing in dentistry until advised to do so by the writer, but that his friends think he has been successful professionally and financially. A visit to his office while he is at work will convince anybody of his fitness for the work. He had been a carpenter before he went to the Brigham Young University. A few years ago the writer was employed to give vocational and moral guidance to all the boys and girls in the industrial schools of three states. In those schools there were about twenty vocations in which boys could receive training. This was an opportunity to train all the boys in the vocation to which they are best adapted, but in many instances the boys were shifted  from job to job and when they left the Industrial school they were much more likely to get into trouble than if they had been well trained in some vocation. In printing, shoemaking, and a few other lines where the boys are kept until they learn the trade, they often become very proficient. Some who do exceptionally well are classed as sub-normal boys before they are sent to the school. The superintendent of one of these schools told the writer that some of the sub-normal boys had become topnotchers in the different lines of agriculture and mechanic arts to which their tendencies adapted them. Vocational training in the public schools is one of the greatest helps in directing difficult boys and girls to a successful life. But such training should always be preceded by vocational guidance. For many years the writer has devoted most of his time to vocational guidance in the schools of more than 600 communities and has seen its great possibilities in helping young people to make the best use of their powers. He is now authorized, by the State Board of Education in California, to teach vocational guidance in the schools. His work is based upon the observational method of character study which can easily be learned by parents as well as by teachers. During the past six months he has had excellent classes in San Bernardino, Santa Monica, Glendale, Monrovia, Huntington Park, and Redondo Beach. Most of the work is done in the high school, but in some of these cities the superintendents of schools arranged to introduce the work into the higher grades of the grammar schools, where the desires of twenty-five years have been realized. In some instances the parent, the teacher, the principal, and the character analyst, all met with the child that was to receive moral and vocational guidance. Those who have the daily care of such children testified that they are able to do much more for them after having pointed out for them how the necessary adjustments in the life of the child can be made. When the home and the school give the necessary attention to such work, difficult children can be adjusted without the help of probation officers, juvenile courts or reform schools. Moral guidance should begin early in the child's life; vocational guidance is not necessary until the junior high school is entered. Without a knowledge of child-nature it is impossible to solve the problem of moral and vocational guidance.