[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial How Do You Do, New Year]
$418,000,000  a  year  rightly  considers  that  a  staggering  amount. 
Why  not  "disarm"  the  whole  tobacco  business  and  save  $2,000,- 
000,000  a  year?    Some  day  we  will.    Mark  the  prediction.

World  Happenings 
James  H.  Anderson 
Italy   was   greatly   disturbed    in    November,    by    political 
riots  in  which  many  persons  were  killed. 
In  Russia,  typhus  fever  is  reported  as  claiming  its  thou- 
sands of  victims  in  the  autumn  months  of  1921. 
Lord  Reading,  of  England,  or  Rufus  Daniel  Isaacs,  is 
the  first  Jew  to  be  made  vicero}^  of  India. 
The  L.  D.  S.  Temple  site  at  Mesa,  Ariz,  was  dedicated 
by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  on  November  28.  He  was  ac- 
companied by  Prest.  A.  W.  Ivins  and  Prest.  Rudger  Clawson. 
American  troops  are  being  withdrawn  from  Germany, 
the  first  contingent  having  started  home  the  last  week  in 
November. 
Japan    is    willing-   to    reduce    naval    armament   according 
to  American  suggestion,  but  retains  her  hold  on  Siberia. 
The  anti-beer  bill,  forbidding  unlimited  doctors'  pre- 
scriptions for  beer  in  the  United  States,  became  a  law  on 
November  23. 
President  Harding's  idea  of  an  association  of  nations 
for  peace  was  received  with  favor  in  November  and  Decem- 
ber, but  the  detail  of  working  it  out  is  still  "in  the  air." 
In  India,  in  November,  a  detatchment  of  British  troops 
was  massacred,  and  shortly  previous  thereto,  64  natives  were 
smothered  to  death  in  a  railway  car  where  they  were  con- 
fined  as   British   prisoners. 
Sixteen  high  school  students  were  killed  near  Red  Bluff, 
Calif,  on  November  30,  when  a  railway  train  ran  into  a 
motor  bus  carrying-  children. 
The  United  States,  Great  Britain  and  Japan  all  have 
stopped  building  battleships  pending  action  by  the  limita- 
tion  of  armament   confer<^nce   in   Washinofton.

WORLD  HAPPENINGS  45 
Premier  Briand,  of  France,  in  the  limitation  of  armament 
conference  at  Washington,  gave  notice  that  France  could 
not  reduce  armament  in  existing  conditions,  then  left  for 
home. 
Archaeological  discoveries  made  recently  near  Phoenix, 
Arizona,  show  conclusively  that  two  civilizations  existed 
in  the  Salt  River  valley  prior  to  the  present  native  population. 
Ireland  was  granted  the  dominion  status  known  as  a 
free  state  in  the  British  empire,  the  first  week  in  December, 
and  the  trouble  there  with  the  British  government  has  quiet- 
ed  down   for   the   present. 
Strikes  occurred  in  various  parts  of  the  United  States 
during  October,  November,  and  the  early  part  of  December, 
mostly  failures,  but  persisted  in,  thus  showing  the  general 
unrest   prevailing. 
A  new  revenue  law  was  passed  by  Congress  in  Novem- 
ber, but  it  was  not  satisfactory,  and  in  his  message  to  Con- 
gress in  December,  President  Harding  recommended  many 
changes. 
The  limitation  of  armament  conference  in  Washington, 
up  to  the  first  week  in  December,  had  agreed  on  reducing  bat- 
tleships both  in  number  and  construction,  but  the  more  ex- 
pensive and  destructive  means  of  modern  warfare,  such  as 
airplanes,  submarines,  chemical  bombs  and  poison  gases, 
was  untouched. 
WHAT  WOMEN  ARE  DOING 
Maria  Padin  Fernandez,  120  years  of  age  and  the  oldset 
woman  in  Spain,  died  in  November. 
Christine    Nilsson,    the    great    operatic    soprano,    died    at 
Copenhagen,  Denmark,  on  November  22,  aged  78  years. 
The  National  League  of  Women  Voters  met  in  Chicago,