[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon and by study of the Mayflower Compact, and other historic documents. Her poem appears in the anthology This Is America, which also contains poems by two other Utahns, Grace Candland and Betty Wall Madsen. Me. RUTH WAHLOUIST, of Ogden, is state president of the American Association of University Women.
Recently in this column we referred to Dr. Olivia McHugh as state president.
This was an error. Dr. McHugh is president of the Salt Lake City chapter. HE, Bronte sisters, Charlotte, Emily, and Anne, and their unheroic brother, Bramwell, are once again the subjects of a biography, this time by Lawrence and E. M. Hanson, The Four Brontes (New York, Oxford University Press.) Readers become aware of their inmost reactions and of the intertwining of their lives. Charlotte's Jane Eyre and Emily's Wuthering Heights both appeared in 1847. An earlier excellent biography is Fanny Ratchford's Web of Childhood. UEEN ELIZABETH and King George of Great Britain sent to Mrs. Matilda Coppins, of Hastings, birthday greetings in late September. Mrs. Coppins, believed to be the oldest woman in the United Kingdom, turned 108.  o-5 EDITORIAL —~9 

VOL.
 'Say Nothing But fRepentance Unto Shis Generation > N May 1829, almost a year before the organization of the Church, the key of the second great principle of the gospel—repentance— was restored to the earth. Repeatedly.
Thereafter the Lord declared, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation" (D.&C. 6:9).
From that time it would seem conditions in the world have been such as todemand that the cry of repentance be heard continuously. 'The gospel message with its word of warning has spread slowly but irresistibly throughout the world.
Still there remain large areas of the earth where the cry of repentance may not be heard, where any faithful are denied the voice of warning and the blessing of drinking of the waters of everlasting life. The tempo of world affairs accelerates and the wicked are rushing to their own destruction. In June 1829, the Lord warned, "The world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of. Men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel" (D. & C. 18:6). In February 1831, the Lord issued a warning, proclamation, and commandment.
Upon his faithful servants he enjoined, "Lift up your voices and spare not.
Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the  great day of the Lord" (D. & C. 43:20).
Ever since that time the Church has obeyed this commandment through pronouncements and writings of the prophets of the Lord, and the call to repentance by the missionaries. A Latter-day Saint, viewing the dread situation which the world has brought upon itself through wickedness and iniquity, may question the power of an individual repentance. Let him recall these words of the Lord, "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth" (D. & C. 18:10, 13). Let him also recall that Abraham bargained with the Lord and was given the promise that the Lord would spare all the place, (Sodom and Gomorrah) if ten righteous should be found in it. Let him recall also that the city of Nineveh, comprising more than sixscore thousand persons, was spared from destruction because the people repented at the pleading of Jonah.
Individual repentance can change the course of events.
Parents in Zion not only are responsible for their own repentance, but the Lord has stated, "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance... The EDITORIAL sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D. & C. 68:25).
Children must be taught the.
Meaning of repentance, "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins— behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D. & C. 58:43). The Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, but he promises, "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I the Lord remember them no mote." The person who is striving for perfection, continually repents of his past evils.
When one fault or sin is overcome, there always remain other failings to conquer, if 105 he would become perfect as_ his Father in heaven and love his— neighbor as himself.