[Social Science: Universal Peace Must Come From God by Archibald F. Bennett]

Social Science course for the next three years. The world needs such a book today; we in the Church need to study and understand its message. Elder Smith is a life-long student of history; he is also thoroughly versed in the revelations of the Lord. His is a precious contribution. True social science in its purest form is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This gospel—this art of human beings living together successfully and happily—has been tried and proved effective in leading the people of innumerable myriads of worlds to exaltation and eternal happiness. The immense number of these worlds may be faintly indicated by what the Lord showed to Enoch. When Enoch saw the worlds the Lord had created, he exclaimed in awe, "Were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea, millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of thy creations" (Moses 7:30). Surely a plan that has proved successful so many times before can be trusted here. Whenever it has been given a full chance here by any considerable number of people, it has proved an effective plan, as on all other worlds. [NX the days of Enoch it brought peace and happiness for 365 years. Of Enoch's people, Zion, it is written: The Lord came and dwelt with his people, and they dwelt in righteousness.. Great was the glory of the Lord which was upon his people. And the Lord 
90  blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish. And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses 7:17-18).: And all the days of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred and sixtyfive years. And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion (Moses 7:68-69). What a pity that such plain and precious teachings are not known to the leaders of nations and the students of the history of the world! Following the Savior's visit to Ametica:... The people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among. Them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free and partakers of the heavenly gift (4
Nephi 1:2-3). You will notice that freedom is spoken of as a gift from heaven. There was no contention among all the people in all the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God... And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings (4
Nephi 1:15-18). That beautiful condition endured for 165 years. Now, in conclusion, I should like to read to you some inspired interpretations. Of history by the Prophet Joseph Smith.. He wrote an article (it is the last chapter for this year's study), called the "Government of God." Here was a prophet of the Lord qualified to interpret the events of history, as the Lord would have them interpreted." We might call these sayings "axioms of social science from a prophet." The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness; while that of man has been productive of confusion, _ disorder, weakness and misery. Man is not able to govern himself, to legislate for himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. If there was anything great or good in the world it came from God. Other attempts to promote universal peace and happiness in the human family have proved abortive; every effort has failed; every plan and design has fallen to the ground; it needs the wisdom of God, the intelligence of God, and the power of God to accomplish this. The world has had a fair trial for six thousand years; the Lord will try the seventh thousand Himself. This course of lessons leads up to the final destiny of the earth and man when they shall, if faithful, reach eternal perfection and eternal happiness. The designs of God have been to promote the universal good of the universal world; to establish peace and good will among men; to promote the principles of eternal truth; to bring about a state of things that shall unite man to hie fellow (Continued on page 141) Don Knight Soo man; to establish the worship of God in the earth and cause righteousness to prevail; to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.

When the earth shall be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory, it shall become like unto a Urim and Thummim, and all things pertaining to an inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to those who dwell upon it; and this earth will be Christ's. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, The tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.

And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.

And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new (Revelation 21:3-5). This is the promise, and this is our hope. Death is not the end. It is but a doorway to greater joy and happiness, to continued progress and eternal life.

What comfort there is in this knowledge! What peace it brings to the sorrowing heart! What hope it gives to those who mourn! The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us that life is eternal, that death is but a transition from one sphere of existence to another, that families may be united forever, and that through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel we may return to live with our Heavenly Father.

This is the message of hope that the Relief Society carries to the women of the Church. This is the comfort that comes to those who understand the plan of salvation. This is the peace that passeth understanding which comes to those who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.