[A Key to the Occurrences of History by Archibald F. Bennett]

A Key to the Occurrences of History Archibald F. Bennett Secretary, Genealogical Society [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1950] HIS is indeed a great privilege, my sisters, to meet with you, and to feel the spirit of this fine gathering. Perhaps I can help most today by presenting briefly a key to the interpretation of the events of history, past, present, and future. As Sister Elliott has pointed out, the world today is perplexed and confused, on the brink of a great crisis.
Amid wars and rumors of wars, tribulation and suffering, hatreds and antagonisms, men's hearts are failing them, and there is a fearful looking forward to that which is to come, even td the prospect of perhaps world-wide and total destruction.
Beset with a bewildering outcry of conflicting theories and plans of government, we need some key to the meaning of all these events taking place around us today, to those that have occurred in the past, and to those events still greater that are yet to come.
Many persons studying history and these present events have grown bitter and cynical.
Some declare openly that Christianity has utterly failed, that all religion has failed. I heard one army general declare, 'There have always been wars; there will always be wars, despite anything we can do."
Even the great and eloquent British statesman, Lloyd-George, in his later years, wrote that many have fondly believed that right has always triumphed over might and over wrong. But history, he announced, proves that it is always the strongest who win wars and dominance over the weak, and that it is preparedness that will always win wars in the future, and not the righteousness of the cause. The American poet Lowell was privileged to glimpse a greater truth. He saw behind the apparent truth of this conclusion a loftier conception.
Although he recognized that through the centuries wrong has always seemed to triumph, yet he could write: Truth forever on the scaffold; wrong forever on the throne; ) Yet that scaffold sways the future, and behind the dim unknown Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above His own. The truth of that inspired view of the poet is borne out by a study of history. But it must be history rightly interpreted!
Most authors of histories take the ground-view of events, as did Lloyd-George.
What we need today is a sky-view of human happenings, history read by the light of revelation, interpreted by the vision and power of God.  
88 
The Lord gave such a sky-view of history to Enoch. The record says that Enoch was high and lifted up; and he beheld all the nations of the earth, generation after generation:. And behold, the power of Satan was upon all the face of the earth And he beheld Satan; and he had a great chain in his hand, and it veiled the whole face of the earth with darkness; and he looked up and laughed, and his angels rejoiced (Moses 7:24, 26). At the side of Enoch stood the Lord himself, to show him the meaning of all these things.
What a pity it is that the writers of the world do not accept this divine interpretation. It shows plainly that when men and women in any age of the world have obeyed the commandments of God they have been blessed with peace and prosperity, harmony and happiness; when they have forsaken God and rebelled against his commandments they have been led captive by Satan down to misery and suffering, contention and strife, war and bloodshed, degradation and death. ~The Lord gave a similar sky-view. Of world history to the brother of Jared and to Nephi.
Each saw the destruction of his people through wickedness, proving convincingly the truth of the statement in the Book of Mormon that "wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10). In my younger years, while studying and teaching history, I was troubled in accepting the current theory that mankind has made a gradual up-climb, a continual ascent from the brute-like, savage, almost bestial cave man, to the present high pinnacle of civilization, so-called. For at our highest pinnacle, it was all too evident that man today is more capable of the wholesale destruction of his fellow man than ever before, and we are far from a state of peace and happiness. HEN one day I was fortunate enough to come across an article printed in the Improvement Era. It provided a true key to the interpretation of history. It bore the title, "Progression and Retrogression," and was written by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. He pointed out the fact, quoting scripture to prove it, that the first man Adam was a highly intelligent and civilized man, an almost perfect being. He showed that Adam had a language that was pure and undefiled; that he and his wife were instructed by God himself.
They and their children were blessed as long as they kept the commandments of God; yet when their descendants rebelled against God, and "loved Satan more than God," then they fell from their high estate and descended to war and murder, contention and savagely.
There was another upclimb in the days of Enoch, when his people reached an almost perfect state; but succeeding generations declined rapidly to the almost total destruction at the time of the flood.
They rose in civilization under Abraham and Isaac and Israel, but in sin went down to the crucifixion and the long night of the apostasy, when darkness covered the earth, and Satan could look up and laugh, and his angels rejoiced. History, then, has been a series of ascents with righteousness and A KEY TO THE OCCURRENCES OF HISTORY descents through wickedness. The degree of civilization of a people has been determined by the extent to which they kept the commandments of God. It has been a long climb from the days of the Dark Ages. 'The Spirit of the Lord touched the hearts of good men. 'They sought for freedom, because freedom is a cardinal principle of the gospel. The Book of Mormon speaks of "the foundation of liberty which God had granted unto them, or which blessing God had sent upon the face of the land for the righteous' sake" (Alma 46:10).
There came brave souls who struggled for political freedom and those who fought and died as martyrs for religious freedom. In our own land and in other lands the fight for liberty went on; and the liberty thus gained made possible the restoration of the Church. ) The battle is not yet over, but we are assured of the final victory. We fondly look forward to the time when peace shall reign over all the earth, and the will of God will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Satan is determined. He wants to win, and he sees the danger of every new gain now being made. But God has told us in the Doctrine and Covenants (10:43): "I will not suffer that they shall destroy my work; yea, I will show unto them that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil." So we do know something about. The outcome, even though there are troubles ahead between now and that period of victory.
That first helpful article on "Progression and Retrogression" by 89
Elder Smith has since been expanded into a volume called The Progress of Man, the chosen text for the to which they kept the command- Social Science course for the next ments of God. three years. The world needs such
It has been a long climb from the a book toda^ we in the Church days of the Dark Ages. The Spirit need to study and understand its of the Lord touched the hearts of message. Elder Smith is a life-long good men. They sought for free- student of history; he is also dom, because freedom is a cardinal thoroughly versed in the revelations principle of the gospel. The Book of the Lord- His 1S a precious conof Mormon speaks of "the founda- tribution. tion of liberty which God had T™e social science in its purest granted unto them, or which bless- form is the gospel of Jesus Christ, ing God had sent upon the face of This gospel-this art of human bethe land for the righteous' sake" ings living together successfully and (Alma 46:10). There came brave happily-has been tried and proved souls who struggled for political effective in leading the people of infreedom and those who fought and numerable myriads of worlds to exdied as martyrs for religious free- altation and eternal happiness. The dom. In our own land and in immense number of these worlds other lands the fight for liberty went may be faintly indicated by what on; and the liberty thus gained made the Lord showed to Enoch. When possible the restoration of the Enoch saw the worlds the Lord had Church. created, he exclaimed in awe,
The battle is not yet over, but "Were lt possible that man could we are assured of the final victory, number the particles of the earth,
We fondly look forward to the time Yea> millions of earths like this, it when peace shall reign over all the would not be a beginning to the earth, and the will of God will be number of thy creations" (Moses done on earth as it is in heaven. 7:30)- Surely a plan that has Satan is determined. He wants to Proved successful so many times win, and he sees the danger of before can be trusted here. Whenevery new gain now being made. ever jt has been given a ful1 chance
But God has told us in the Doctrine here hY anY considerable number of and Covenants (10:43): "I will not people, it has proved an effective suffer that they shall destroy my plan, as on all other worlds, work; yea, I will show unto them that my wisdom is greater than the JN the days of Enoch it brought cunning of the devil." So we do peace and happiness for 365 know something about the out- years. Of Enoch's people, Zion, it come, even though there are is written: troubles ahead between now and that period of victorv ^"ne Lord came and dwelt with his mi. r 1 i r \ . • i people, and they dwelt in righteousness

90
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY 1951 blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish.
And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses
And all the days of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred and sixtyfive years.
And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion (Moses 7:68-69).
What a pity that such plain and precious teachings are not known to the leaders of nations and the students of the history of the world!
Following the Savior's visit to America:
. . . the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another.
And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free and partakers of the heavenly gift (4 Nephi 1:2-3).
You will notice that freedom is spoken of as a gift from heaven.
There was no contention among all the people in all the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God . . . And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings (4 Nephi
1:15-18).
That beautiful condition endured for 165 years.
Now, in conclusion, I should like to read to you some inspired interpretations of history by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He wrote an article (it is the last chapter for this year's study), called the "Government of God." Here was a prophet of the Lord qualified to interpret the events of history, as the Lord would have them interpreted.
We might call these sayings "axioms of social science from a prophet."
The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness; while that of man has been productive of confusion, disorder, weakness and misery.
Man is not able to govern himself, to legislate for himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world.
I f there was anything great or good in the world it came from God. Other attempts to promote universal peace and happiness in the human family have proved abortive; every effort has failed; every plan and design has fallen to the ground; it needs the wisdom of God, the intelligence of God, and the power of God to accomplish this. The world has had a fair trial for six thousand years; the Lord will try the seventh thousand Himself. This course of lessons leads up to the final destiny of the earth and man when they shall, if faithful, reach eternal perfection and eternal happiness. The designs of God have been to promote the universal good of the universal world; to establish peace and good will among men; to promote the principles of eternal truth; to bring about a state of things that shall unite man to hie fellow (Continued on page 141) Don Knight Soo [Cannot provide missing text as continuation page 141 is not included in the provided PDF pages]