CORRESPONDENCE

		KIRTLAND, Ohio, April 3rd, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If the intrusion upon the literary domain of
the opposite sex calls for an apology, I can
offer two reasons for the same. First, I am
engaged in the same great cause as your able
little journal—the dissemination of truth.
Second, I have very near relatives and friends
belonging to that sex, one of whom took a
prominent part in bringing me into the world,
therefore, I feel under obligations to them.  If
it be considered a compliment, it is certainly
merited, for truly, in my missionary travels I
have seen double the number of copies of the
EXPONENT for free distribution than of any
other sheet published in the interest of Zion,
and it is second to none in its efficacy as a pro-
mulgator of truth. I confess that until I came
on my mission, having never closely perused
the EXPONENT, I had far underestimated its
value in this regard.  But no doubt your sex
are accustomed to this treatment at the hands
of all who undertake to place a limit to their
importance as factors in the sum of human ex-
istence.  For instance, consider the obtuse-
ness of Pharoah's judgment, when, to impede
the dangerous increase of Israel, he ordered
every male child drowned. After eighty years of
this unavailing cruelty, we find a nation where-


in the females outnumbered the males about
seven to one, and the offspring of these much
married fathers were of a quality so superior
to their progenitors, that they witnessed the 
triumphant conquest of the promised land.
Their  marriage relations produced such happy
results, that the poet prophet (Isaiah)
broadly hints that the like condition will be
repeated in the latter days, by a marked scarcity
of the masculine gender.  If this foolish king,
whose name has become a synonym for tyranny,
had changed the drowning process to the other
sex he might have accomplished his purpose.
As it was, history records his miserable failure,
and traces its cause to a misconception of the 
true source of increase.
	The halo which surrounds the early scenes
of Church history so closely interwoven with
the little village from which I write, may cause 
a few lines to be read with interest.
	Appointed by the president of the Penn. Con-
ference to labor a few weeks in this vicinity, I 
arrived here the 10th ult.  Through the kind-
ness of the directors of the town hall I ob-
tained leave to hold three meetings therein,
which I did, bearing testimony with all the
strength God has given me to the divinity of
the Latter-day work as inaugurated by Joseph
Smith, and as carried on by his divinely ap-
 pointed successors, Brigham Young and John
Taylor.  The "Reorganized" have a small 
branch here, and their representatives chal-
lenged me to affirm the question, "Does the
Bible teach and endorse the practice of poly-
gamy?" to which I assented.
	The discussion lasted two evenings, each of
us having two speeches of thirty minutes each
for each evening.  They honored me with their
ablest representative for an opponent, whose
chief forte was as a debater, and who, though
well qualified for brow-beating, was fair and
reasonably courteous, and abstained from the
low, abusive, false accusations so often resorted
to by our enemies of this class.
	He denied that God had ever justified its
practice, or that the Mosaic law had ever sup-
posed or regulated it.  But when confronted 
with the numerous evidences of God's special
favors to Abraham, Jacob and others, and
such passages as Deut. xxi, 15, and xxv, 5,
Ex. xxi, 10, and xxii, 16, with many others of 
like import it was too much even for the 
nimble acrobatic feats of the Scripture twisting
"Reorganized," and he virtually acknowledged
the point.  He then referred to the New Testa-
ment, where, in speaking of the law as a whole
as a "schoolmaster" for the higher law, he 
said, "How could the law justify polygamy
when the book condemns the law?"  He 
claimed the words of the Savior, where he de-
nounces "putting away," and says of the mar-
ried couple, "they twain shall be one flesh,"
were condemnatory of the practice.  I showed 
from Romans, vii, 3, that while a woman is
forbidden to marry another while her husband
lives, the husband is not thus forbidden, and
that they twain may refer to a man and his
second wife, as well as the first, was shown
from 1 Cor., vi, 16.  I then referred to the last
chapters of Judges and the 25th of Numbers,
to show the high standard of morality required
by the Almighty of His people under the "im-
perfect" law.
	My friend now considered it his turn to
rush to the defense of modern methods, and
this valiant champion of morality, whose sensi-
tive olfactories took such Pecksniffian offense
at the loose morality of the ancient Patriarchs
who held converse with Deity, after he had
labored near one and a half hours to show that
Abraham, Jacob and David were bad, sinful
men, after he had lobbied in Washington for the
enactment of oppressive laws for the punish-
ment of the compeers of the maligned patri-
archs for practicing Biblical doctrine, rushed
to the defense of the assailed purity of nine-
teenth century "civilization," and spent much

[Column 2]
of his remaining time in explaining away and
palliating the slight ills that obtains under the
regime of apostate Christianity, and in telling
humorous manufactured stories of married life
in Utah, too foolish to be wicked.
	It surprised me to find the amount of evi-
dence existing to prove that Joseph the Seer
was the pioneer in the practice of plural mar-
riage right here under the very noses of those
who so stiffly deny the fact.  One intelligent 
lady said to me, "The 'Reorganized' Church
made a mistake in the beginning.  If they
had taken the stand simply that polygamy was
wrong, no matter who the author was, they
might appear consistent.  I have evidence 
enough in my possession to convince any one,
but the 'Reorganized' Church do not ask me
for it."   It does not suit them, probably.
Every one in this vicinity, familiar with
Church history, say it was well understood here
that he taught this in the last days of his
eventful life. One eccentric old lady, a devoted 
member of their church, said, "I remember, as
yesterday, when an Elder told me that Joseph
had received a new revelation, authorizing
him to seal more than one woman to a man for
eternity (this while Joseph was living, mind
you), not to live with them for this life.   It
was Brigham that added to that revelation
these words: 'Now they're ours we can do as
we like with them.'"
	Father Bond still lives, though quite feeble,
and is taken care of by his daughter.
	The village is substantially the same as
when described by an abler pen than my own,
and given to your readers in your issue of
March 15th, 1885.  The temple is being re-
paired with a view to hold conference therein,
beginning April 6.  Joseph is already in town,
and all their notables are expected.
	Wishing the EXPONENT deserved success, I
am,				Yours truly,
