APRIL 8TH, 1887.

	The disfranchisement of all the women voters,
without cause and without even the allegation of
crime against them, is an arbitrary exercise of des-
potic power without parallel in republican history.
No reasonable excuse can be offered for such an
invasion of political rights exercised without hin-
drance for seventeen years; and the vain pretence of
the enemies of the Latter-day Saints that they
wish to rescue the women of Utah from bondage
has by this outrage upon freedom been effectually
silenced forever. Taken with other portions of
the law it betrays an attempt to pave the way for
the domination of the majority by the minority,
because the former is composed of members of
an unpopular Church. It should be the purpose
of good citizens and faithful Latter-day Saints to
maintain the liberties which are dear to every
citizen, by all legal and consistent means within
their power. And while many of the men and
women who, with Divine assistance, opened this
region to human occupation and fitted it for civil-
ized existence, are arbitrarily deprived of any per-
sonal participation in its government, it becomes
the duty as well as the privilege of those who can
do so under the operation of unjustly discriminat-
ing laws, to stand up manfully and use all dili-
gence and vigilance in the retention and preva-
lence of the local rule of the local majority. In
thus sustaining the right and assisting in the pre-
vention of wrong, they will have the blessings of
a just God and the approval of an enlightened
conscience.
	A redeeming feature of the new law is the ex-
emption of wives who are viewed as legal from
testifying against their husbands in cases arising
under the Edmunds act. This and the decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States con-
demning the segregation system, by which the ex
treme penalties imposed by law were unlawfully
multiplied upon "Mormon" defendants, are cutting
rebukes to the Utah Courts and District Attorney,
for their excesses and malice in pursuing persons
acting under the strongest religious convictions.
The relief thus afforded to many subjects of ju-
dicial persecution would doubtless be consider-
ably extended, if other extreme rulings of the
Utah Courts were reviewed by the highest tribun-
al of the land.
	As the summer months are approaching, when
open air recreations will become common, we deem
it necessary to warn the Saints, and especially our
young people, against the excesses and impro-
prieties that often attend such public entertain-
ments. In the inordinate desire to make money,
attractions are devised to draw crowds of people
together where the usual restraints that regulate
good society are greatly relaxed, to the detriment
of pure morality, and the breaking down of those
safeguards which should protect sobriety and

[Column 2]

virtue. Pleasure and relaxation which in them-
selves may be not only harmless to mind and body,
are often rendered evil in the extreme, because of
their surroundings and associations. The thought-
less and inexperienced are frequently oblivious
to the harm thus attending something in which
there is no essential wrong, and are led to look
with allowance, if not actual approval, upon things
that would shock them under other circumstances.
The indiscriminate commingling of the Saints
with persons not of their faith whose habits, his-
tory and purposes are bad or unknown to them,
is fraught with evil and to be strongly deprecated.
To expose our youth to the contaminating influ-
ence of vile men and women such as often con-
gregate in places of public amusement, where they
are thrown together in social intercourse, is more
than folly; it is wickedness. It is proper that
strangers should be treated with courtesy and re-
spect, but intimacy with them is not desirable, and
our young people should be cautioned and guarded
against casual acquaintanceship and the society
of persons whose intentions and influence may be
of the very worst character.
	Excursion parties should be conducted by per-
sons of standing and wisdom and under regula-
tions that will preclude the evils that frequently
attend such gatherings. When arranged for pur-
poses of speculation, the promoters are often too
heedless of consequences in their anxiety for pro-
fits, and will mix together the worst of characters
and the good and unsophisticated, with results
that can but be lamentable. Sunday excursions
to lake or canon, moonlight trips and late bathing
trains should be emphatically discouraged. The
society of persons who place themselves under
the baleful influence of intoxicants should be
avoided. Order should be maintained in the
midst of merriment. Indecorous language and
conduct should be frowned down. All excess is
detrimental. Temperance should govern in every-
thing. Amusement is not the purpose of life, it
should be indulged in only by way of variety.
When people accustom themselves to constant or
oft-repeated rounds of pleasure, the true objects
of human existence are forgotten and duty be-
comes irksome and detestable. Children should
not be permitted to attend public gatherings with
out older persons accompanying to guard them
from accident and from the contamination of the
ungodly. The responsibility for the evils attend-
ing violations of these instructions will rest upon
parents, guardians and the local Priesthood in the
various wards and settlements. Persons who
habitually desecrate the Lord's day cannot be
held in fellowship, and the members of the Church
who neglect public worship and the partaking of
the Sacrament and do not remember the Sabbath
day to keep it holy, will become weak in the faith
and spiritually sickly and will lose the Spirit
and favor of God, and ultimately forfeit their stand-
ing in the Church and their exaltation with the
obedient and faithful.


