PRIMARY ENTERTAINMEMT.

	The Sixth Ward Primary Association of
Logan had an entertainment on Friday even-
ing, the 11th of March, commencing at half
past seven o'clock. The object was to encourage
the children to speak correctly and cultivate
good manners, and to show the parents what
their children are capable of doing. The
programme was filled entirely by our Primary
children, and was as follows:
	Prayer by Fred Turner, Jr.; "The Welcome,"
by Maud Bowen and company; Ada Jones and
Alice Jacobson, a song, entitled, "Grandpa's


Spectacles," age eight and six years; Harry
and Mary Crowther, recitations from the
Juvenile Instructor, ages five and three years;
Hiram Thorp and John Wilson, a song, en-
titled, "Kitty Wells;" Frank Fulmer, a recita-
tion, entitled "Queer;" Eunice Jacobson, a
song, entitled, "Susan," aged three years; Bettie
Bowen, a recitation, "Rebecca Dobbs;" Bertha
Jones, a song, "Baby Darling;" "Little Wise
Heads," by Mable Barber, Ida Leishman,
Mamie Turner and Ida May Stewart, exceed-
ingly well done; "The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum," by Dorothy Hansen; Lillian
Parkinson, "Keeping His Word;" Rosella
Thorp, a song, "Little Bessie, the Drunkard's
Child;" Martha Bench, "Take Things as They
Come;" Ida Stewart, a song;  Julia Jacobson,
"The Chimney Sweep," in character; "Harry's
Bravery," by J. W. Pike, Isaac Stewart, Fred 
Turner, Nellie Bowen and Carrie Stewart;
Jane Gordon, a recitation, entitled, "Steenie,"
aged six years; Ida Leishman, a song, "The
Child's Message;" Rhoda Fulmer, a recitation,
"Mattie's Troubles;" Carrie Howard, a recita-
tion, "My Beau With the Corduroy Pants;"
Bangie Johnson, "The Wallflower;" Alice
Jacobson, a song, "Waiting for Pa;" Eunice
Jacobson, a song, "Who Will Wear my Stove-
pipe Hat?" in character, her sister, aged six
years, playing the accompaniment; Emma
Brown, "Nay, Speak no Ill;" Joseph Thorp
and company, a song, "Lady, Awake;" Georgie
Jensen, "The Washing Day;" Sophia Jensen, a 
song, "You've Been a Friend to Me;" "The
Jasper Sea" was sung by the Primary choir.
accompanied by Maud Bowen.  We were
greatly assisted by our Primary organist, Sister
Hannah Jacobson.  Ettie Smith, a song, "Ten
Thousand Miles Away;" Phoebe Downs, Cather-
ine Arnold and Ellie Ellis each a recitation;
Christine Fjeldsted, Jelina and Ada Ostlund
each a recitation, Maggie Johnson, a recitation,
"The Angels;" Adeline Jeppeson, "Thorns and 
Roses;" Sarah Larsen, a recitation; Dagmar
Christiansen, "The Prophet's Prayer;" Amelia
Christiansen, a song, "The Sailor's Song." The
evening's entertainment was concluded by
"The Sewing Bee," from one of the Primary
Books.
	Our Primary Stake President, Jane E.
Molen, and her husband were present, and we 
were sustained by our Bishop, Bro. Turner,
his Counselors, the ward generally, and quite
a number of visitors.
					EMMA PIKE, Prest.,
