A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
	Accept, dear Sister Harriet Whipple,
What we have planned to-night,
As respect from us, and we hope it's right;
And this little gift we present to thee,
May it in some future day a comfort be.
Not that our names are required of thee
To vindicate thy worth or set thee free,
From thy great station—no, but praise bestowed
In gratitude for what we all have owed;
For counsel, wisdom and intelligence
Thy tongue and faith amongst us did dispense;
For this we thank thee, and for this we claim
To tell thy worth and venerate thy name.
Not that we've earned what we so much desire, 
But that, like you, to fame we may aspire;
And while we for the present grieve to part,
Your name's engrave on each beating heart,
And we ask the Lord your journey to bless,
That you may never be found in distress,
And that you with your aged and noble sire
May live as long as life is a desire;
And we hope that in your far-away home,
Or where'er you may chance to roam,
Your duty to God you will ever do,
And the Lord will guide and protect you through.

	Coun. Mary Adair then presented to Sister
Whipple, in behalf of the Society, a new
black dress.
	Sister Whipple arose and thanked the sisters
for their kindness and respect shown to her.
Said she did not think the sisters thought so
much of her, and was overcome with joy and
gratitude, so much that she could not express
her feelings as she would like to. Hoped all
would enjoy themselves, as they had met to
please her. She prayed the Lord to bless all
the sisters in their endeavors to do right.
	Some few remarks were made by several of
the brethren present, then the tables were
spread with the good things of the land, in-
cluding home brewed beer, with stuffed turkey
and chicken. While at supper their sons
came home from St. Johns, making it more
satisfactory for the venerable pair. The even-

[Column 2]

ing was then spent in songs, recitations, etc. At
ten o'clock the assembly began to repair to
their homes, but Bro. Whipple put it to vote
that they should stay longer, but it being even,
they all returned home feeling very well paid
for their trouble in making two hearts happy.
