		EMMA S. JACOBS.

	DIED, at Zeno, Maricopa Co., Arizona, at 7 p.m., on
Wednesday, March 2nd, 1887, Ann Jane, wife of Charles

[Column 2]

L. Hawley, aged forty-nine years, two months and four days.
	Sister Hawley, daughter of Isaac and Mary Russell, was
born near Kirtland, Ohio, on the 26th of Dec. 1837, while
her father was in England proclaiming the Gospel. On re-
turning in April, 1838, with Heber C. Kimball and
Orson Hyde from England, her father with his family removed
to Far West, Caldwell Co., Missouri, the then gathering
place of the Saints. Scenes prior and subsequent to the
expulsion of the Saints from Missouri, through which she
passed with her father's family, cannot be enumerated in
the short space allotted to an obituary notice; suffice it to say,
her father's house, nightly as it were, was assailed by a
mob, the roof torn partly off, chimney torn down, windows
smashed in, horses maimed, wagons chopped to pieces,
cattle shot down, haystacks burned, his life threatened
numerous times, his children dragged from their beds at
the dead hour of night, by order of John Ragland, a re-
puted horse thief, and chief of the mob, he swearing that
he would shoot them unless their father would promise to
leave the place. This he would not do. The house was
then emptied of all its contents, the ruffians swearing
they would burn it down. The children, Sister Hawley be-
ing one of them at that time, asleep, were carried from
their beds and placed for the mob to shoot, but Providence
did not permit them to be murdered
	Next he was cast into prison, because he would not vio-
late his conscience, as in the present day, at the order of
Circuit Judge, Austin A. King, and, finally, fresh license be-
ing taken from the action of Judge King, early in the year
1842 he was torn from his house, in the presence of his
family, by an infuriated, howling mob, dragged up on the
Temple Lot in Far West, and there sold as a slave to the
highest bidder, for a term of six months, John Ragland
being the purchaser, and Patrick Lynch, another noted
mobber, being the auctioneer Remember, this was in a
free country, and the person not a citizen of the United
States, but a British subject. Prior to this, the said Patrick
Lynch was clerk in Jacob Stollins store in Gallatin, Daviess
Co., where a fight occurred, otherwise mentioned in
Church history.
	With his wife, infant child and eldest daughter, he re-
paired to the farm of his purchaser, in the borders of
Daviess Co., serving out the allotted time in labor thereon,
at the expiration of which he leased a piece of land three
miles east of Richmond, in Ray Co., and built a log house
thereon, and early in the spring of the year 1843, gathered
his family again together, where, on the 25th of September,
1844, he passed away from—the last seven years—an
eventful life, at the early age of thirty-seven years, leaving
his wife and six small children, the youngest then not one
year old, Sister Hawley, the subject of this notice, being
the fourth in age.
	Long after he had slept in his grave, the scene of his
sale was alluded to in the presence of an old Missouri
pioneer, named Nimrod Duncan, who had witnessed it,
and Mr. Duncan remarked, "I am an old man, one foot,
as it were, in the grave; when I first set foot here, where
the City of Richmond now stands, it was a forest; the
woodman's axe had not then entered. I have seen many
ups and downs in life, but that, "alluding to the sale referred
to, "was the most disgraceful scene that I ever witnessed
under the government of the United States, and that, too,
when the civil law was said to be in full force." There was
no polygamy then. The sacred marriage principle of
the Latter-day Saints was then not known, nor heard of.
No cause whatever could be assigned for the brutal, fiendish
acts of the mob, nor for their being permitted to continue
them for three successive years after the expulsion of the
body of the Church, save that the man was a "Mormon,"
and that the administrators of the law, many of them then,
as now, were but fiends at heart themselves.
	Left by the wayside, a stranger in a strange land;
destitute, with her helpless family (no one to rely upon
save her God and the promise of her dying husband, that
his children should not want for bread), the widowed
mother struggled on.
	Seventeen years passed by. Sister Hawley, now grown
to womanhood, never having heard a word in defense of
the Gospel in all this time, but raised in a school of preju-
dice against it, with her mother, sister and brother
with one accord set out for Utah, 1,300 miles away, arriving
in Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1861. Here,
by Heber C. Kimball, on the 3rd of January, 1863, she
was married to Charles W. Hawley, residing in Salt Lake
City and vicinity up to December, 1883, when she came
with her family to this Territory, Arizona.
	She leaves her husband and four daughters, the youngest
in her 14th year, besides her kindred and many friends to
mourn her loss. She died loved and respected by all who
knew her.	COM.


