EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is a long time since I have written you. My
silence is not due to a dearth of subjects upon which
to write, nor for the lack of time, neither from
any laziness of feeling, but from a disposition to
remain silent for a while and note passing events.
	One change follows so quickly upon the heels
of another now-a-days as to almost bewilder the
beholder, while the writer of current history is
often compelled to bring to an abrupt termination
the description of the scene of yesterday, because
of the all absorbing topic of to-day. In fact, very
few are capable of keeping pace with these fast
occurring events and something more than ordin-
arily startling must happen to at all excite our
wonder or even our surprise. I am often led to
ask myself what is the tendency of all this hap-
pening? for happening it really is in the main, and
not the result of the exercise of calm and dis-
passionate judgment.
	All classes of society are seriously disturbed,
and the waves of their agitation sometimes run
mountains high threatening destruction on every
hand. The political world rent asunder as it is,
presents a deplorable spectacle; while social life
bids fair to be torn into rags and tatters. We
look in vain for a calm sea upon which floats the
religious world, for their continual antagonisms
too plainly denote that peace is not there.
	The isolation that we enjoyed (I mean the Lat-
ter-day Saints) for so many years is a thing of the
past, for the agitators of Society, both religious
and political as well as social, are among us stir-
ing up strife, and are maddened beyond descrip-
tion because we will not take issue with them up-
on any one of their favorite questions; for there
is a fixed determination on their part to drag us
down to their level and compel us to bow at their
shrine.
	The political element, fearful of our strength be-
cause of our unity, have been engaged in system-
atically stealing our political weapons for years
past. Stealing did I say? Yes, stealing is the
word and I speak advisedly when I use it; but
the very acme of meanness and cowardice was
reached by them when they took from woman her
only weapon,—THE FRANCHISE. Years ago woman
was brought within the political arena through their
clamor and had presented to her this weapon, new 
and bright; and now, because they have watched
in vain to see her use it as they dictated, she


[Column 1]

choosing to use it as she pleased, they have stolen
it from her, leaving her as unprotected as before,
and then turn round and howl about the down
trodden women of Utah. Oh, the hypocrites! I
wonder what hope they have either now or in the
future of winning our esteem by such conduct?
It is the height of absurdity to expect it for they
never will realize it.
	Talk about preserving the purity of the ballot.
Could not woman be trusted to help retain its
purity? Is it not rather that its purity is too well
preserved when it is in part in woman's keeping
that is the matter? These men certainly will not
claim in the face of so many revelations of cor-
ruption and fraud that have been proven against
them in this particular that the ballot is safe in
their hands alone? A jealous woman is to be
pitied, but a jealous man should be despised, and
it is certainly jealousy of women in regard to
the wise and honest use she will make of this
one weapon that has prompted these men to steal
it from her.
	Now, my sisters, seeing this has been done, let
us exercise ourselves in another direction. We
have hundreds of sons who are approaching man-
hood: we can recite to them the wrong that has
been done us in this regard and teach them the
value of this weapon when wielded aright. When
they reach maturity we can assure ourselves that
each boy of ours is secure in its possession and
that we can teach him how to use it; and who is
there who dare attempt to rob us of this sacred
trust! Our political rights must be maintained
at all cost save that of sacred covenant; therefore
let every disfranchised mother not only train her
sons, but see that they are fully qualified to enter
the arena from which she has been so cruelly ban-
ished and there contend for the right; for next to
our holy religion, is our country and its wise and
judicious government, to secure which, men of
of sterling worth must rule therein and not dema-
gogues nor hungry political cormorants.
	Nor should our daughters be neglected, for the
future mothers of the race need as careful train-
ing (though in another direction) as our sons. A
training as varied and extensive as her future re-
sponsibilities will be—a thorough, practical knowl-
edge of domestic life, seems to me to be indispens-
able, although a great deal of the drudgery be-
longing thereto may in her after years be done by
others. A sufficient literary education should be
secured, while a partial musical education (at
least) will add much to that refinement that sits so
gracefully upon woman.
	I was visiting some time ago at the home of a 
most estimable woman; accompanying me was
a sister who is an excellent organist; a splendid
instrument was in the room and she executed a
few of her best pieces. I noticed how interested
the children were. After the music ceased, the
youngest, a bright little fellow, four years old, who
was leaning upon his mother's knee, looked up in
her face and said with such earnestness, "Ma, I
wish you could play like that lady; can't you try?"
Unluckily for this excellent mother that part of
her education had been neglected.
	There is, however, another kind of training which
seems to me to be of the greatest importance, for
what is life worth to us or others without health
and strength? I pity a young man who has to
assume the role of nurse almost as soon as mar-
ried life begins and the bodily condition of whose
young wife demands a doctor as well. He soon
tires of hired help no matter how efficient it may
be, nor how attentive to his wants. For disguise
it as he may, he longs for the society of her he
loves, and that, too, away from the invalid couch.
	One very fruitful source among many others
that might be named, of what is termed
"female weakness," is in an over-indulgence
in dancing; more especially in waltzing, schot-
tisching and the polka; always accompanied
as such pastimes are with late hours; and

[Column 2]

yet how persistent we are to continue this
practice and that, too, against the desire of our
best friends. We can exercise ourselves far more
legitimately and without danger, in other ways
that are most commendable and praiseworthy;
that will preserve the elastic step, the queenly
gait, the ruddy cheek and the robust constitution
unimpaired; thus securing to posterity that vitality
and strength which is so desirable. Mothers!
too many of us live too far away from our
daughters. Their secret life is to us a sealed
book; let us open its pages and with the every
day's experience written therein let us add leaf by
leaf those wise suggestions that knowledge only
can give.
	I have often looked upon the bronzed cheek of
the maiden who performed daily the heaviest
physical labor and often out of doors and have
noticed her healthy appearance as compared with
the pampered girl of fashion, powder and paint.
Let us draw a line between these two extremes
and follow the middle course of conduct so beau-
tifully in keeping with our, organism and thus pre-
serve that healthy equilibrium of body and of
mind which God designed we should possess and
enjoy.
	All being well you shall hear again from
