REMEMBRANCE OF LOVE.

	The following is a short sketch of the life of my sister,
whose maiden name was Christina Swenson, since she first
embraced the Gospel:


She was born in Sweden, on the 10th of July, 1834, and
in company with myself emigrated to Copenhagen, Den-
mark on the 1st of April, 1859. At that time neither
us had heard anything about the Latter-day Saints, but we
soon heard it, and on the 30th of April, the same year, we
were baptized, and on the 1st day of May we were both
confirmed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. She was baptized by Elder Olson, and confirmed
by Elder Johnson, and emigrated to Utah in 1863, in con-
nection with myself; was married to Elder H. Funk in Salt
Lake City, in November, 1863, with whom she lived until
her death. Moved from Salt Lake to Richmond, Cache
Co., in 1864, where she resided for some time, then moved
to Weston in 1865 or 1866, but as the Indians were trouble-
some there at that time, they moved back to Richmond.
	When the Relief Society was first organized there, she
being one of the first members, was chosen for a teacher,
and after a short time was appointed as President over the
teachers, which duty she faithfully performed until 1874, when
her husband was called to act as Bishop over Newton Ward
and she was again appointed as a teacher, the office of
which she held until the day of her death.
	She was a faithful wife and mother in Israel, and as such
I think she is worthy to be mentioned in our little paper,
the EXPONENT. She, like many other faithful women,
passed through many trials and sufferings, which were un-
known to any one save God and herself. She was well
known as an exceedingly good woman. Her duty was
always the first consideration, and one of her teachings
was, "It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong." She
lived in plural marriage the most of her life, and honored
it as an exaltation for her in eternal life. I never heard a
doubting word pass her lips either as regards plural mar-
riage or the truth of this work. She was always happy
and contented with her lot, as well as a careful, economical
and industrious housekeeper. She was always hard at
work, though not to store up for herself, but always divided
with others who she thought needed it worse than she did
Her hands and heart were always ready to do good, both
in sickness and other troubles.
	I ought not to mourn for my dear sister's departure; she
has gone through to the rest that remains for the faithful.
She has gone to her dearest children, whom with joy she will
clasp to her bosom again, all but one, who is left to struggle
on alone. She has suffered and borne all her sorrow with
patience; her troubles and trials have all passed away; she
has won the bright crown by faith and endurance; her
reward is obtained, her joy is complete, so, farewell, dear
sister, I would not recall thee, for we know thou art happy
in the heaven of rest; thou hast done all the work that thou
could do, henceforth thou wilt dwell with the good and the
blest.
	Dearest sister, I had to lose thee, and I cannot tell you
how I feel, but I can tell here how I loved you; you were
always so good and kind, not only to me, but to all around
you, and an honor in the places where you lived. Often
were you left so lonely, busy working all the time, but the
Lord our God did love you, and I know you have been a
faithful wife and loving mother, and a sister good and kind,
not to talk about another, nor with their doings fault to
find.
	To all good sisters I will say, "Here is one to represent
us if we will follow in her way." Now, the unpleasant
world, farewell; I must tarry for a time, may love and
peace forever dwell, and God be with us, sisters dear, that
are left yet to labor for a while.
		COM.


