SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, held at
Ephraim, March 12, 1887, Prest. M. A. Hyde
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
the roll was called, and minutes and reports were
read. Verbal reports were given by presidents
and representatives of the different branches,
which were very satisfactory.
	Coun. E. Allred hoped we would keep pace
with the times, as we were living under peculiar
circumstances, when all that could be shaken
would be shaken. It is necessary for us to
live lives of purity and faithfulness before God,
that this crusade might pass by.
	The following letter was then read from Sis-
ter Wareham:
DEAR SISTERS:
	Although I am deprived of the pleasure
of meeting with you in conference, I feel it a
duty to say a few words to you in behalf of
silk culture, as the time draws nearer when we
shall be obliged to sustain ourselves, and it
behooves us, as a people, to make every effort
in that direction. I would say to all who
have any mulberry trees, be not discouraged

[Column 3]

even if there appears to be no present sale for
cocoons. If you cannot sell them, you can
keep them, for I think that in a few years the
demand will be greater than the supply. So
far as I am concerned, I have no difficulty in
disposing of my silk at home for the manufac-
ture of ties, which are far nicer and more dur-
able than imported ones. I am satisfied that
if the sisters will persevere in the good work,
that success will yet crown their efforts. As
spring is now approaching, let all whose cir-
cumstances will permit, and who have the
welfare of Zion at heart, plant a few mulberry
trees and increase the number from year to
year, and those who already have the trees, I
trust will procure sufficient worms to utilize
the leaves during the coming summer.
	In conclusion I would say that, although
necessity prevents my meeting with you in
conference, yet I am with you heart and soul.
I have had a season of severe trial, but I hope
to profit by the experience thus gained. I am
happy to be able to say that Bro. Wareham
appears to be slowly recovering from his long
affliction.
	Praying God to bless you and direct your
labors during conference, I remain, with love
and good wishes,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			REBECCA WAREHAM,
		President Silk Association.
	Sister Tuttle felt to glorify God she that lived
in such an eventful time. It was necessary for
us to be a tried and persecuted people in order
to gain a celestial glory. Did not think God
would allow us to apostatize if we would be
humble and prayerful. Looked forward to
the time when this temple would be finished,
"and we can go in and do a work for our dead
friends and relatives." Did not feel to pray
for the trials to pass by, but for strength to
bear them.
	Coun. S. Petersen felt thankful that we were
engaged in so great a work. It is now nine
years since Brigham Young urged us to lay up
wheat for a time of need, but was sorry to see
what small progress had been made. Touched
upon silk and general manufacture, there
was no time to be idle. Spoke on plural
marriage, that it was as true as baptism.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde was thankful to meet
with her sisters again after so long an absence,
during which time she had had the opportunity
to represent the Relief Society of this Stake as
being energetic and industrious in manufactur-
ing cloth, carpet, cheese, etc., etc., for the tem-
ple, besides appropriating their Sunday eggs
for the emigrating of the poor. "Our temporal
and spiritual duties cannot be separated. The
sisters are gaining spiritual strength, and when
they have a testimony of what is right, they
will bring their minds into subjection to the
will of God, no matter what the consequences
might be, knowing that the Lord loves His
daughters as well as His sons, and hears and
answers their prayers." Concluded by speak-
ing in tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Casto, and was very encouraging to the
daughters of Zion.
	Bishop Jensen of Manti, addressed the con-
ference; felt to say, "May the God of Israel
bless and strengthen the sisters in their efforts
to do good."
	Prest. Canute Petersen said the Latter-day
Saints were making quite a history. "The sis-
ters are now sailing in the same canoe as the
brethren, as they have all been disfranchised."
Dilated on the principles of our faith and
blessed the sisters.
	The choir sang, "God is Love." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andersen. Conference adjourned
to meet at Sterling, June 11th, 1887.
