MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I herewith submit a summary of our quar-
terly conference, held at Mesa, Dec. 16, 1886.
Conference convened at 10 a.m., Coun. Susan
Savage presiding. Our Stake Prest., E. S.
McDonald, having just returned from her trip 
to Utah and Salt Lake, felt weary and needed
rest after her tiresome journey, therefore her
Counselor took charge of the meeting. The
roll call showed a fair representation of the
different branches of the Stake. Favorable
reports were given by the presiding sisters in
regard to their societies, and they each bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the work they
were engaged in.
	A number of the brethren and sisters ad-
dressed the meeting, whose remarks were very
encouraging, and calculated in their nature
to cheer and strengthen those who were en-
gaged in the work of God.
	Coun. Savage wished the prayers of the sis-
ters in behalf of our President, that the hoarse-
ness with which she was afflicted might be
removed, that she might be enabled to address
the meeting.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt very thankful to
return again to our midst, and enjoy the society
of her friends once more in this favored land.
Referred to the satisfaction she had experienced
in her labors in the Temple in officiating for
her dead; felt that the Lord had blessed her in
her labors in the renewal of her health; she
never felt better in her life. Spoke of conversa-
tions she had held with strangers, concerning
the principles of our religion, especially plural
marriage; felt that the blessings of God had
been with her in these interviews, and she was
thankful for it. "The sisters should strive to
comprehend the principles of our religion, that
they may be prepared to defend them when 
assailed by our enemies. Let us extend a
helping hand and a kind word to those who
are in trouble, and be, indeed, angels of mercy
in the sphere in which we are placed." Made
many more very interesting remarks, which
were listened to with great interest.
	After singing, conference adjourned for three
months. Dismissed by Bishop Jones.
	SARAH M. POMEROY, Secretary.

