DEAR SISTERS:
	Not having had the opportunity of visiting
all the Primary Associations in the Oneida
Stake through the past winter, we feel it our
duty to address a few lines to you on the sub-
ject of Primary advancement.
	The mission to which we, as officers of the
Associations, have been called is a most impor-
tant one, and should be accepted as a labor of
honor and love.
	The training and educating of the future
men and women of Zion has been committed to
our care, and this great responsibility,especially
in such an eventful day as this, demands our
most careful and considerate attention, for the
children who now compose the Primary Asso-
ciations will, in a few short years, be the repre-
sentatives of the greatest cause on earth, and
the reason of success or failure, in the battle of
life, will be followed back to the moulding of
the tender mind by the influence brought to
bear by those whose duty it was to teach and
train them in their youth.
	Presidents should, therefore, study the situa-
tion, and make their mission a reality and not
a mere name.
	Our duty does not consist in alone conducting
the meetings of the children, and then throw-
ing off all interest as to them elsewhere, but
we should seek to establish an influence among
them that will draw them to us in all our asso-
ciations together.
	Our example before them should be such as
we would be proud to have them follow, and
we should consider every act of ours a pattern
for them.
	Life and variety should be put into our
meetings, that they may be interesting and
profitable; and in order that a desire to read
and inform the mind may be created while
young, we suggest the advisability of collect-
ing a few good books, such as the "Faith Pro-
moting Series," "Juvenile Instructor" and
others of like character.
	We are very desirous that every Primary As-
sociation in the Stake should have a library of its
own, which may be obtained by a perpetual
offering of about five cents per month from
each member of the Association.
	Dear sisters, that we may know the condi-
tion of each Primary, and be enabled to make


out an accurate report for our quarterly con-
ferences, it is very necessary that we receive a
report from every ward, so please do not fail to
make out your reports as soon as possible after
receiving them, and send them in to Sister
Elizabeth Hale immediately.
	Our earnest endeavors to magnify our call-
ing will be acceptable unto the Lord, and will
most assuredly be fraught with great success.
	Praying the Lord to assist us in training the
youth of Zion, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
		LUCY M. PARKINSON,
		ELVIRA PETTY,
	Of the Presidency of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Oneida Stake.


