TERRITORY OF UTAH.

	In view of the recent congressional legisla-
tion, in relation to the right to vote, act as
jurors and hold office in the Territory, we feel
it incumbent upon us, as representatives of the
People's Party, to direct attention to some of
the salient points of the new law, point out
the restrictions which it imposes and awaken
your interest in the maintenance of the rights
and privileges of citizenship which are yet left
you. As to voters, the most cruel and sweep-
ing provision of the law is that which takes
the electoral franchise from the women of the
Territory. Under its provisions no woman will
be permitted to register or vote. As to male
voters of the People's Party, there is no pro-

[Column 2]

vision in the law which need necessarily re-
duce their numbers. The oath prescribed
therein, while in the nature of a test oath and
repugnant to the spirit of liberty and the
genius of free government, which every citizen
should cherish, is not regarded as a test of
faith or religious belief. The authors and
strongest advocates of the bill in Congress
maintained that it, in no sense, abridged the
right of conscience or curtailed freedom of
belief. Accept that interpretation of this
oath, and its whole intent and scope are to
prohibit actual violators of the law from vot-
ing, acting as jurors or holding office.
	The questions that intending voters need,
therefore, ask themselves are these: Are we
guilty of the crimes in said act? or,have we the
present intention of committing those crimes,
or of aiding, abetting, counseling or advising
any other person to commit them? Male per-
sons who can answer these questions in the
negative can qualify under the existing laws
as voters and office-holders: Some may not
understand fully the import of the words, "aid,
abet, counsel or advise." "Aid or abet" is a
phrase having a well-defined legal signification.
It means to knowingly assist the principal in
the commission of an unlawful act. As to
counseling and advising, no man in the com-
munity is expected to counsel or advise any
person to commit crime.
	All who can subscribe to the above, duty
calls to wakefulness and activity. The politi-
cal control of the Territory, of the counties
and the cities, still remains in the hands of the
People's Party, if you employ the power which
is left you. But there must be no backsliding
nor indifference among you. You should not
fail to exercise your rights and defend them.
It is not a time to indulge in "bogus" senti-
ment, but it is a time when every man, who
can do so, should feel it his first and most
sacred duty to exercise the right to preserve
himself and his people from political bondage.
Your ranks, depleted by an important element
—the women voters—can be closed up and
strengthened if every man who is eligible regis-
ters and votes.
	Your attention is called to the communica-
tion of the United States Commissioners di-
rected to the registrars of election (a copy of
which is enclosed) and to the interpretation of
the law contained therein. If their sugges-
tions shall be observed by those to whom they
are directed, fair treatment may be expected at
the registration and polls, and victory will
crown your efforts as heretofore. Should there
be a disposition on the part of any to curtail
you in the exercise of your rights and privi-
leges as herein defined, you should repel any
such effort. Do not let any one mislead or dis-
courage you in the performance of your duty
at the present time. You are the majority of
the people of this Territory. Your labors
have made it habitable. Your representatives
have governed and controled it, in your inter-
ests, faithfully since 1847. They have been
true to the trust imposed in them. They are
entitled to your confidence and support. Should
a change in the political control of this Terri-
tory occur, the disaster which it involves is be-
yond conception. In those districts where
such a fatality has overtaken the people, even
for a short time, they have been made to suffer
untold outrages at the hands of those who
usurped office and exercised power among
them. These things should be remembered by

[Column 3]

the voters of the People's Party, and they
should incite every man to the performance of
his duty.
	Let it not be said that any member of the
People's Party neglected his opportunity. But
let every one, from the commencement of the
registration to the day of election, keep care-
fully in mind the course that he should pursue,
attending to every formality to maintain his
political status and exercise his rights and duties
of citizenship.
	The following are the names of the members
of the committee in attendance: George
W. Thatcher, Cache County; Thomas F.
Rouche, Davis County; F. W. Chappell, Juab
County; James R. Stewart, Morgan County;
Wm. H. Lee, Rich County; John Sharp, John
T. Caine, John R. Winder, Angus M. Cannon,
Feramorz Little, Elias A. Smith and Junius
F. Wells, Salt Lake County; Alma Eldredge,
Summit County; H. S. Gowans, Tooele County;
W. N. Dusenberry, S. R. Thurman and A. O.
Smoot, Jr., Utah County; L. W. Shurtliff and
Thomas D Dee, Weber County; and E. G.
Woolley, Washington Couuty.
	The officers are: Chairman, Hon. John
Sharp; Vice-Chairman, Col. J. R. Winder;
Secretary, Judge E. A. Smith; Corresponding
Secretary, Junius F. Wells, Esq.; Executive
Committee; John Sharp, J. R. Winder, J. F.
Wells, E. A. Smith, F. Little, L. W. Shurtliff,
H. S. Gowans, W. F. Dusenberry and T. F.
Rouche.
	Messrs. E. G. Woolley, of Washington
County, and R. W. Heybourne, of Iron County,
were elected members of the committee, vice
J. M. McFarlane and Edward Dalton, who
have removed from the Territory.
	Before the adjournment of the Central Com-
mittee the executive committee were instructed
to prepare suggestions for the better organiza-
tion of the People's Party in the precincts, and
to formulate a circular for the instruction of
voters.


