EDITOR EXPONENT:
     I see so little in our papers from Kanab,
that I thought a few items in reference to the

[Column 2]

different organizations of this Stake would be
interesting.
	Our Sunday School Conference convened at
10 a.m., Friday, Feb. 11, 1887, at the Kanab
School House, Stake Supt., A. Frost, presided.
H. C. Bowman is the Superintendent of the
Sunday School of this ward; the exercises were
given by the pupils of his school. They were
of such a character and so well rendered, that
they evinced the efficient and capable manner
in which the school had been conducted, and
also that the Supt. and teachers had the eternal
welfare of the children at heart.
	At half past 1 p.m. the conference of the
Primary Associations of the Stake was held at
the same place. As I am more particularly
associated with this organization, I will give a
more explicit account of the proceedings. In the
absence of Stake Prest., Louisa Spencer, Coun.
Electa J. Emmett presided. Coun. Susan
Facherel was also present. There were present
of the ward presidents, M. Elizabeth Little of
Kanab, S. Facherel of Orderville, and Jane
C. Johnson of Johnson; also present as visitors,
Sisters Harriet Bunting and Artemisia Seg-
miller of the Relief Society Stake Presidency.
The meeting was opened by singing, "The Song
of the Workers." Prayer by Jane C. Johnson.
Singing, "The Trials of the Present Day."
The programme was rendered as follows, by
the children of the Kanab Association: Ques-
tions and Answers on Faith, by the whole Asso-
ciation; Song, "Who Should Sing if not the
Children," by a class of little girls; Recitation,
on faith, by Gertrude Judd; Song, "My Mother
Dear," by Emily Nash; Articles of Faith, in
concert, by a class of boys; Recitation, by 
Willie Broadbent, aged three years; Recitation,
on faith, by Ethel Stewart; Recitation, by
Sabina Oliphant; Dialogue, on faith, by a class
of little girls; Duet, "Bury Me Quietly When
I Die," by May and Sabina Oliphant; Lecture,
on faith, by Emily Nash; Recitation, by Steven
Potter, aged four years.
	M. Elizabeth Little reported her Association
as being in a good condition. Said she had
given herself a mission to teach the children
the principles of the Gospel as far as she was
able, "so that the boys, particularly, may not
only understand these principles themselves,
but be able to give the whys and wherefores of
their belief unto others."
	S. Facherel reported the Association of
Orderville as doing well, having a goodly
number enrolled, with a good average attend-
ance.
	Jane C. Johnson said there were but a few
children at Johnson; under existing circum-
stances, she thought they were doing well.
	Counselors E. J. Emmett and S. Facherel
exhorted the children to obey their parents and
those who were placed over them; also spoke
on the necessity of prayer.
	Mrs. Segmiller told the children that their
advantages were far greater than had been
those of their fathers and mothers, and they
should profit thereby.
	Singing, "O Lord, Protect Our Leaders
True." Benediction by S. Facherel.
	At 3 o'clock the ladies of the Relief Society
held their conference, Prest. Harriet Bunting
presiding, assisted by her First Coun., Mrs.
Artemisia Segmiller. We had a very enjoy-
able time.
	Coun. Segmiller spoke at some length on
the spirit of fault-finding, prevalent among
some sisters everywhere. Counseled the sisters
to be kind and charitable to one another, and
be very careful not to speak against the Lord's
anointed.
	Prest. Bunting made some remarks on the
duties of the sisters in the Relief Society.
	Other sisters bore their testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work.
	At half past 7 the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
met in conference. The programme indicated


that they were not a whit behind others in
their progress.
	Saturday, the 12th, the people met in Stake
Conference. Although we were not blessed
with the presence of any of the Presidency, or
of any of the Apostles, the Lord had mercy
on the people on account of their peculiar
position, and inspired those who spoke to give
unto them those things that were needed for
their growth and development. I can truly
say that we had a time of refreshing from the
Lord.
