EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As we don't remember ever having been
heard from through the columns of our valu-
able paper, we thought, perhaps, a few items
from our little settlement might not be amiss.
We are trying, to the best of our ability, to do
our duty and help roll on the work of God.
	Our Bishop, John C. Larsen, is a man of
God, and is never tired of working for the in-
terest of his ward, and for the building up of
God's kingdom.
	We have a good Relief Society, with Sister
Elizabeth Tittonsor as President, and Sisters
Susannah Larsen and Carrie Kingsford, Coun-
selors.
	Our Y. L. M. I. A., with Sister Mary Bair,
President, and Sisters Mary Tittonsor and
Betsy Allen, her Counselors, is doing a good
work for the improvement of the young.
	Our Primary Association was reorganized
on the 9th of last May, with Sister Emma
Cornish, President, and Sisters Jane R. Biggs
and Minerva Allen Counselors; Miss Lottie
Spackman, Secretary; Miss Caroline Cornish,
Treasurer.  Our Primary meetings are well at-
tended, and the children, bless them, are al-
ways willing to take their parts, and do any-
thing that is required of them.
	We held a Primary exhibition on the 22nd
of February, for the purpose of assisting to
gather the poor. Our programme consisted of
songs, recitations, dialogues, and also two
comic pieces, one entitled, "Have you Heard
the News," and the other, "That Postal Card."
After paying expenses we had a balance of
$9.75 left, which was turned for the purpose
before mentioned.
	Our worthy Bishop has kindly promised to
give one acre of land for the boys of the
Primary Association to plant in potatoes, each
one to furnish an equal share of potatoes,
to plant them and see after them, and the pro-
ceeds to go towards buying musical instruments,
so we can have a Primary band. This will en-
courage the children, and will also teach them
to be useful.
	Praying for those who have the welfare of
Zion at heart, and who are diligently working
for the spread of truth on the earth, and all
that is good and noble, we remain,
	Your sisters and co-workers in the Gospel,
		EMMA CORNISH,
		JANE R. BIGGS,
