[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 130 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Morgan Stake (Utah), Morgan Ward Presented Beautiful Painting of Nauvoo, March 17, 1962 Evadna R. Francis (right), Morgan Ward, presents a painting of Nauvoo to Emma Lou W. Bell (left), President, Morgan Ward Relief Society. Hazel F. Durrant, President, Morgan Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their anniversary party, the Morgan Ward Relief Society sisters were given a_ beautiful original painting of Nauvoo, painted and presented by Evadna R. Francis. 'The painting depicts Nauvoo as it may have been when the Relief Society was functioning during its vears of infancy, where it was first organized. 'The painting now enhances the space where it hangs in the Relief Society room, and is enjoyed by ward and stake members alike as they gather there. Sister Francis ls a busy homemaker. She has served in all the women's auxiliary organizations, both ward and stake, and is a former president of the Morgan Ward Relief Society. She has served as a visiting teacher for fourteen years, missing only one month in that time. She is a registered nurse and does part-time nursing occasionally and aids all who need her help. She taught the work meeting course for 1961 in Morgan Stake. She is a new student of art and has been studying for only two and one-half years. Of her thirty-one completed paintings, she considers 'Nauvoo' her most rewarding, probably because of her reason for creating it." Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Participate in the Chorus for Relief Society Annual General Conference, for the Semi-Annual Church Conference, and Other Occasions Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the outstanding accomplishments of the Singing Mothers of Twin Falls Stake: "Our Singing Mothers began practicing in April in preparation for the opportunity to sing at Rclief Societv Conference and General Conference. Although they spent many hours away from their families and homes, they have all expressed their gratitude for the opportunity to sing under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relicf Society, and fcel that it has been one of the greatest events of their lives. 'This group also sang for our Rclicf Socicty Convention in August, for the stake quarterly conference in September, and in Burley, with the seven stakes from this region, in a special concert under the direction of Sister Madsen. Betty Birrell is our chorister, and Wilda Carlson is organist." Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention May 17, 1962 Jennie W. Murdoch, President, Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society, reports that a large percentage of the stake visiting teachers attended the convention: "Our theme was 'Blessed art thou, visiting teacher.' The beautiful music was furnished by the Goshen Ward Singing Mothers. An original song was composed and sung for us. Our guest speaker was Sister Lavina Fugal of Pleasant Grove. She is a truly great Latter-day Saint mother, and an American Mother of a past year. She made us feel that it is a great privilege and blessing to be a visiting teacher. "There are over a thousand years of visiting teaching represented by the sisters in the picture, each person having at least thirty years of teaching and some fifty years and more. All of the sisters who have served more than thirty years were honored by First Counselor Helen Smith. A special tribute was also given to every sister who had achieved a one-hundred per cent record in her visiting teaching and in attendance at her meetings. Second Counselor Florence Lamb and Secretary-Treasurer Zelma Clayson were in charge of refreshments. At the time of the convention we did not have a stake visiting teacher message leader, but we are now fully organized.' 


 Panguitch Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference Sessions, March 18, 1962 Organist Nina Steele is seated at the piano at the far right; chorister Hetta D. Reid stands at the right on the second row. Eva N. Dalton, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers presented the following selections: "When Mothers Sing," "My Prayer for Today," "Home," and "Thanks Be to God." "Practicing for this performance was done largely in the wards. Ward choristers and organists were instructed by stake leaders at stake leadership meetings. Ward leaders then spent many hours with their choruses practicing within their own wards. Only two practices on a stake basis were required for this performance." Manchester Stake (England), Rochdale Ward Visiting Teachers Honored At Opening Social, September 24, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Shirley Tiffany; Edith Kenworthy; Jessie Withington, Work Director Counselor; Elsie Wortley, President; Mary Woodruff, former president, Manchester Stake Relief Society; Olive Teale, Education Counselor; Maureen Hoyle; Irene Webber. Back row, standing, left to right: Kathleen Kenworthy; Vera Shore; Mary Mc: uade; Jean Caffrey; Monica Robinson; Lillian Fountain; Elsie Butler; Eileen Thompson; Dorothy Woodhead, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Woodruff reports: "The visiting teachers of the Rochdale Ward maintained the lead position in the stake in visiting teaching throughout the year. In their honor a chicken dinner was served to twenty-nine Relief Society sisters. A program followed the dinner, and a film on visiting teaching was shown." Dorothy Thorpe is the new president of Manchester Stake Relief Society. 136 THEOLOGY @ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 48 — Give Heed to Warnings and Trifle Not with Sacred Things Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 65:22-66 ) For First Mecting, May 1963 Objective: To realize that to redeem Zion peaceful means were to be used; that wars would plague the world until the Savior comes; that there would come a time of peace during the millennium; and to know the seriousness of blaspheming sacred things. Will and Commandment 84:44-45; D & C Commentary, page The center place for the city of 375-) Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) had been designated by revelation. Mysteries As Blessings Members of the Church desired to Latter-day Saints know that to know what they should do in remeddle in the things which have lationship to it; therefore the Lord not been revealed brings disappointmade known his purposes to his ment and sometimes loss of faith in saints. 'They were to gather to that fundamental beliefs. Speculation place if they desired to do the will does not contribute to salvation. Of the Lord. As stated in verses 22 Rationalization of the scriptures and 23 of Section 63, they were not may destroy faith. There are mysto consider this a commandment. Teries of the kingdom which may be The Lord gives revelation for the known by all who seek in faith. Benefit of all who will obey, but he (Alma 12:9-11.) 'These revealed knows that some members, if comtruths further one's salvation, for manded in all things, will bring con- _ they are essential to soul-growth. As demnation on themselves by disoone learns the truth contained in bedience. Consequently, in this the revelations, it becomes "a well revelation, he leaves it up to the inof living water, springing up unto dividual to obey his will or not to everlasting life' (D & C 63:23; obey. Those who love the Lord John 4:10-14). It should be clear will obey his will as if it were acomthat individuals differ in their mandment. (Matt. 7:21; D & C_ knowledge of gospel truths and the 


 application of them in their lives. There is ample opportunity for the Latter-day Saint to learn the mysteries revealed in the scriptures. Concerning the gathering to the land of Zion, the saints were to learn this mystery: do not undertake the journey in haste, lest pestilence follow. (Ibid., 63:24.) Render Unto Cacsar During the ministry of Christ there came some who sought to trap him by asking him whether one should pay tribute to Caesar. His reply then and also in this dispensation stresses the necessity for the saint to follow the laws of the land. "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's" (Matt. 22:15-22; D & C 63:26; 58:21-22.) This truth is emphasized when one understands that Jesus is the Creator of the earth, vet he respects the laws of the land. The saints who were to go to Zion were to follow legal practice in purchasing the land, although it was to be their inheritance. Only by this means would they have any opportunity to live in peace with their neighbors. Enough opposition would come to the saints from Satan stirring up the hearts of their enemies, without their tempting them to shed blood. (Ibid., 63:25-28.) When the Lord commanded the saints to purchase the lands and there should be no shedding of blood, he was saying what had been said of old — "Thou Shalt not kill" (Exodus 20:13). In fact, what follows in the revelation is a warning to comply with the commandment to purchase the land promptly, or else they would be scourged from place to place. 138 (D&C 63:29-31.) Elder B. H. Roberts wrote the following on_ this prophecy:. And so the event turned out. The saints failed to respond with becoming promptness to the commandment to purchase the land of Zion; and all that was predicted in the revelation befell them. The passage then was a warning to the saints, not a threat directed at the old settlers of Jackson county; and if. Blood was to be shed, clearly it was to be the blood of the saints rather than that of their eneanies (A Comprehensive History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, 1:264). Wars Decreed Immediately following this prediction of distress among the saints because of neglect in following counsel, the Lord declares that the wicked in the world shall slay the wicked, for they lose his spirit by their unrighteousness. (D & C 63:32-33.) I Destruction — follows when that spirit is withdrawn from men. (2 Nephi 26:11; D & C Commentary, page 350.) Fear will come upon all men in that day because men will be fighting amongst themselves and the saints will hardly escape. (D & C 63:34-35; cf. 1:34-36.) 'The saints in 1831 and later, during the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith, were counseled to come to the land of Zion that they might not be engulfed in_ these tribulations. (D & C Commentary, page 380.) 'Those who should come to Zion were to be the faithful, serving God in righteousness and faith. It was the solemn duty of the saints to declare a warning voice to the world that judgment awaited the unrepentant, and the only escape would be through following the will of the Lord. (D & C 63:36-37.) That the saints would "hardly escape" was commented upon by the Prophet on September 29, 1839, as follows:... Explamed concerning the coming of the Son of Man; also that it is a false idea that the Saints will escape all the judgments, whilst the wicked suffer; for all flesh is subject to suffer, and "the righteous shall hardly escape;" still many of the Saints will escape, for the just shall live by faith; yet many of the righteous shall fall a prey to disease, to pestilence, etc., by reason of the weakness of the flesh, and yet be saved in the Kingdom of God. So that it is an unhallowed principle to say that such and such have transgressed because they have been preyed upon by disease or death, for all flesh is subject to death; and the Savior has said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged" (DHC IV:11). Instructions to Kirtland Saints From verses 38 to 47 in Section 63, instructions are given to members of the Church in Kirtland, Ohio. Specific directions are given that the 'Titus Billings farm should be disposed of and some were to go to Zion. ( Verses 37-39.) 'The money thus received was to be used for the purchase of land in Missouri. ( Verse 40.) Newel K. Whitney was to continue the operation of his store, and funds from this source were to be sent also. (Verses 41-44.) He was to take charge of these operations and also to act as an agent of the Church, since some members were not to go to Zion at this time. (Verses 45-46.) 'The counsel given in this revelation suggests a pattern for the future when the city of the New Jerusalem will be built. Only those who are worthy and receive a call to assemble in that area will have the privilege of participating actively in that endeavor. Only he LESSON DEPARTMENT who is faithful overcomes the world. Constancy in the work of the Lord brings the blessing of having overcome. (Verse 47.) "Blessed Are the Dead That Die in the Lord" The Latter-day Saint's concept of death is stated in these words: He that sendeth up treasures unto the land of Zion shall receive an inheritance in this world, and his works shall follow him, and also a reward in the world to come. Yea, and blessed are the dead that die in the Lord, from henceforth, when the Lord shall come, and old things shall pass away, and all things become new, they shall rise from the dead and shall not die after, and shall receive an inheritance before the Lord, in the holy city (D & C 63:48-49 ). Several important facts concerning the faithful dead are found in these verses: (1) Righteous works follow the faithful in building a mansion of glory. (2) 'The dead that die in the Lord are blessed. Death is a blessing for it opens the way to the faithful for further progression on the way to eternal life. Great blessings of communion with loved ones and the realization of having fought a good fight on the earth bring joy.

(3) Those that "die in the Lord" need have no fear of the future. Uncertainty and doubt of the period after death flee from those who have and are sincerely overcoming the world. (4) The greatest blessings are not available in the spirit world because that sphere of life is only intended as temporary in preparing one for the resurrection. (5) The departed saints look forward to the second coming of Christ when they shall 


 rise from the grave to obtain an inheritance in the place prepared for them. Even "the holy city" (New Jerusalem) will be a part of their inheritance. (6) The faithful dead will have a resurrected body free from disease, pain, and sorrow. This union of spirit and body in the resurrection will remain forever. Death will never again separate them. The Millennium In continuation of events following death of the body and the coming of the Lord in judgment upon the wicked, several ideas about the thousand year period of peace and righteousness on the earth are indicated. 'The present telestial condition of the earth will pass away, and a terrestrial state will prevail. Death is one of the most real events of mortality. It must come to all. Notwithstanding the millennium ls known as the time when death shall not bring sorrow, death will come when man reaches the "age of tree," which is the millennial "age of man." (D & C _ 101:29-30; 63:50.) Death dunng this period will consist of being changed immediately from mortality to resurrection. (Ibid., 63:51-52.) Look forward to "these things" — death, spirit world, resurrection, sccond coming of Christ, millennium, an inheritance in the earth. In 1831, speaking as the Lord views time, the second coming of Christ was near at hand. In the assurance that his coming is nearer than at the beginning of this dispensation, saints should follow the counsel to look forward even to "the day of the coming of the Son of Man." 140 (Ibid., 63:53.) The Lord knows that there will be many among the saints who will not be prepared by righteous living to receive the Savior when he comes. 'These have been called "foolish virgins among the wise." Lhevy are foolish because thev had the law, they knew of these things and vet this knowledge was taken lightly, in not letting the doctrine of the second coming have an influence upon their lives for repentance. 'They shall, however, be separated from the righteous, for the Lord will take judgment upon them. (Ibid., 63:53-54.) That there is great need for a call to repentance is known by all who have a knowledge of the bondage of sin which holds so many people in the world. 'The Lord is not to be mocked by those who themselves have not received the benefit of release from sin through accepting his atonement. (Ibid., 63:58; D&C Commentary, page 384.) Even though this condition exists today as a result of the apostasy, men should know that the Lord ls all-powerful and that in time all things shall be subject unto him. (Ibid., 63:59-60. ) Do Not Blaspheme Wherefore, Jet all men beware how they take my name in their lips — For behold, verily Tsay, that many there be who are under this condemmation, who use the name of the Lord, and use it in vain, having not authority. Wherefore, let the church repent of their sins, and I, the Lord, will own them; otherwise they shall be cut off (D & C 63:61-63). I'o blasphemce is to speak -irreverently of God or sacred things. The name of Deitv should be held in the greatest respect. To take the name of the Lord in vain has been condemned from the _ beginning. (Exodus 20:7; Levit. 22:32; Deut. 5:11.) Ancient Israel understood that to curse or blaspheme Deity was an offense so serious that death was the penalty. (Levit. 24:16.) But how far has the world departed from the divine injunction that the Lord's name should be used reverently? The vulgar person often delights in blaspheming the name of the Lord, consciously or designedly, to verify his oath or word. In commenting upon this practice of the world, President Joseph Fielding Smith has said:. Some individuals have become so profane that it appears almost impossible for them to speak two or three sentences without the emphasis — as they think — of a vulgar or blasphemous oath.... A person is known as much by his language as he is by the company he keeps.. Ifow strange it is that some people, and good people at that, think that to use some cxpression involving the namc_ of the Lord, adds interest, wit, or powcr to their stories! How oftcn this is seen in the moving pictures, even in shows that otherwise are commendable.... Above all other peoples on the carth, the Latter-day Saints should hold in the utmost sacredness and reverence all things that arc holy. The people of the world have not been trained as we have been in such matters, notwithstanding there are many honest, devout, and refined pcople in the world. But we have the guidance of the HToly Spirit and the revelations of the Lord, and He has solemnly taught us in our own day our duty in relation to all such things (Improvement Era, July, 1941, page 525). Sacred Things Made Light Of The people of the world are not the only ones who make light of sacred things. In the days of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet some members of the Church did so, and there are members today who do not sense its seriousness. 'The word of the Lord in the scriptures, the principles, ordinances, and practices of the Church are to be spoken of with care, for they are sacred. Mockery of sacred truths is blasphemy in the sight of the Lord. 'The Nephites in the pride of their hearts sinned grievously and lost their strength for the Spirit withdrew from them. One of their sins was "making a mock of that which was sacred" (Helaman 4:11-13). Two thoughts emerge from the truth that man is not to mock sacred truths. In the first place, the person who professes belief and practice and at the same time does not live the principles, is making light of sacred things. All should determine that the best life is the life of conformance to God's will. The second thought is the too prevalent poking fun at or jesting about Church teachings and practices. An editorial in a Church publication written by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve poses 'the following pertinent questions as well as others on this point. How many people joke about the Word of Wisdom when in social groups? How many joke about sobriety or the lack of it? How many make light of our teachings on modest dress, and flaunt their standards by persistent violations? How many make light of the dress requirements of those who go to the temple? What is our attitude toward the 


 Sabbath? Do we make light of it, and at times do we make fun of it as we proceed to violate it? There follows the admonition to self-examine our attitudes on these matters, and a stern reminder of the seriousness of trifling with sacred things: The Lord will not be made light of. He will not be laughed at, nor ridiculed, nor ignored by those who are under obligation to him. Self-examination on these matters can be a wholesome thing. And self-determination will be likewise. Determination of what? Determine whether we want to be in the good graces of the Lord or not. Whether we want to be "fence straddlers'' or not. Whether we want to carry water on both shoulders, or not. Whether we want to be sincere or not. Whether we are willing to compromise our principles or not. Whether we are willing to sin a little for business sake or for social prestige.... If we trifle with sacred things, we not only disobey, but we ridicule as well.. We may do it thoughtlessly, you say. But that very thoughtlessness is itself an evidence of lack of interest, lack of concern about it all. It is itself proof positive that we are taking lightly the things of God, that we therefore trifle with them. Without sincerity there is no salvation, regardless of any show of obedience (The Church News Section, Deseret News, March 29, 1958). Now is the day to determine to whom obedience will be given. If we have been negligent in the past, the Lord is gracious and kind to the repentant. These things remain to overcome through patience, that such may receive a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, otherwise, a greater condemnation (D & C 63:66). Remember that that which cometh from above is sacred, and must be spoken with care, and by constraint of the Spirit; and in this there is no condemnation, and ye receive the Spirit through prayer; wherefore, without this there remaineth condemnation (Ibid., 63:64). Questions for Discussion 1. What does it mean that the saints will hardly escape the destructions of the last days? 2. Give six poimts about the faithful dead as developed from Section 63:48-49. 3. Discuss: Those who love the Lord will obey his will. Little Lights Hannah C. Ashby I do not stand as a beacon light On a lofty mountain high, To guide the world of men in flight As they travel through the sky, But a little light in a lowly place Can give a message of cheer, And bring a smile to a troubled face From love light shining near. 142 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 48 — "Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, May 1963 Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems. The scriptures are filled with promises that those who remain steadfast and faithful to the Lord's commandments shall be protected and preserved. David the Psalmist said, "the Lord... Forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved forever' (Psalms 37:28). The great general and prophet Moroni in the Book of Mormon declared, "God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him" (Alma 44:4). There are both physical and spiritual aspects to the Lord's promises and assurances that the faithful will be guarded, saved, and _preserved. In some _ instances, the faithful will be protected and preserved against physical harm. This was the meaning of this promise given by Moroni. More frequently, however, this promise has had a spiritual rather than a physical meaning. The statement given above by David had this more enduring meaning. He spoke of the faithful people being preserved not just in this life but "forever," It is this broader meaning that the Savior emphasized when he said, "Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it" (Luke 17:33). Obviously, when one loses his life, as indicated in this scripture, he is not preserved and _ protected physically; yet as the Savior has promised, if one loses himself, and even his life, in the service of others, and thereby in the Lord's service, he preserves his soul and gains eternal life. Over and over again the Savior emphasized the divine fact that saving one's soul is infinitely more important than preserving one's life. "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36). To be preserved in a_ spiritual sense means to be delivered from evil; to be shielded by the Lord's spirit; to be secure and firm in our convictions of the truth. It means to be sustained and upheld in righteousness and to possess one of the Lord's choice gifts, the blessing of peace of mind. 


 Temple Bailey, in an impressive story, tells about a young mother who set her foot on the path of life and wondered if the way would be long and hard. Her guide said to her, "Yes, the way is hard and you will be old before you reach the end of it, but the end will be better than the beginning." In this story the young mother faced her problems with faith and confidence, but as her children grew, illness came into their lives and there was sorrow, and the way was stormy and dark. 'The children were filled with fear and uncertainty, but they came to their mother with confidence and she covered them with her protective mantle of love. Then the mother said to her guide, "These days are even better than the brightness of the sun, for now my children have learned courage." This story continues with the experiences of trouble and _ affliction through which the mother and her children learned the true meaning of faith and love and the need for the constant assurance of the Lord's protective spirit. 'hey learned that with faithfulness through life's experiences, both bitter and sweet, the Lord helped them to develop the qualities which preserved _ their spiritual strength, and thus they came to realize that the end was better than the beginning. President Hugh B. Brown said: Men sometimes labor under the false impression that reverses, disappointments, tragedies come only as the result of sin and disobedience.... The trial perhaps may come... To teach some of the great lessons of life. And so we must remember that the winds blow and _ the rains beat upon the house that is built upon the rock. The promise is not exemption from the storm but that they who shall so build shall have strength to withstand it (Eternal Quest, pp. 247-248). We will not be spared from the problems of life and we may not be spared from some of its tragedies. But, the Lord will give us his protective spirit as a_ shield. His strength will become our strength, and, if we are truly faithful, we have no need to fear, for we can have the Lord's comforting spirit to be with us and his assurance that our souls will be preserved throughout this life and throughout eternity. NOBLE THOUGHTS Think noble thoughts always. They are the seeds of noble deeds, and the flowers that they bring make for happy hours and sweet memories. —Pauline Bell 144 WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 8 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Dr. Virginia F'. Cutler For Second Meeting, May 1963 Objective: To show the importance of home influence on the training and growth of children. OR this last discussion we shall have a symposium. The leader and three members will be seated at a table in front of the group. Each member will be prepared to make a short talk about one of the topics listed below. The role of the leader is to introduce each speaker and her subject and watch the time. She then makes' a summary statement of the main points of the discussion and invites further discussion from the group. 'Topics for the symposlum: 1. Preparation for marriage begins in the cradle. 2. Need for work should be part of children's training. 3. Work is essential to happiness. 4. Good conditions will induce good work. Our greatest assurance that an engaged couple will be able to establish a happy home which will be a good training ground for children is that each one has come from a happy home. It is here that children first learn to love or hate, to work or be idle, to take responsibility or to be irresponsible, to be honest or dishonest, to live democratically or to be tyrants. The young couple might ask, how does this training begin? Here we must distinguish between two kinds of language: the language of the feelings and the language of words. 'The first is the more potent influence, and it begins with the newborn babe. John, the newborn, understands his mother when she cuddles him close and sings soft tones of love as she nurses him. He doesn't know the meaning of words, but he knows his mother's love. 'This language is so strong that her fears and tensions as well as her love can be communicated to him instantaneously. A child first learns to be part of a team through the language of the feelings and gradually learns that he has some part to play in having satisfying relationships with his family.