[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 82 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. The lessons are beautiful and inspiring, and I could not put the August issue down until I had read the article on Jerusalem, by Christine H. Robinson. And, although I should have been housekeeping, I stopped to enjoy the lovely color plates (by Dr. O. Preston Robinson), so beautifully reproduced.
—Mrs. Gene Hendon
Brighton, England

We were so thrilled with the poem sequence "Portrait of Freedom" (by Alberta Tombe Christensen) in the September Relief Society Magazine, that we used this sequence as the principal component of our opening social presentation. One of our sisters prepared an introduction to each of our phases of lesson work, using one of the poems in the sequence as a basis for each. All were beautifully blended together with appropriate songs by the Madge Baird Mothers. It was so well done that we were invited to present it in a sacrament meeting as a tribute to Veterans' Day. It made a thrilling and very appropriate service which everyone enjoyed tremendously. Thank you for printing these inspiring poems which Sister Christensen so masterfully created.
—Beulah Isom
Reseda, California

I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, but appreciate it more than ever now that I am so far from home, serving on a mission here in New York. We use the Magazine as a gift for new members and investigators. So it is a missionary. I have tried many of the delicious recipes and homemaking ideas and I enjoy every part of the Magazine. I am grateful to the Logan, Utah, Eighth Ward Relief Society for sending the Magazine to me.
—Lila B. Daynes
Lockport, New York

I was delighted when my November Magazine came to see a story by my sister Helen C. Warr ("The Little Blue Bag"). It is an excellent story. Helen is presently serving as a missionary in Scotland. I would like to express my appreciation to Mrs. Olive Moore of Melbourne, Australia, who took time to write from halfway around the world to express appreciation for my article on the Bancroft flood in the July issue of the Magazine.
—Frances C. Yost
Bancroft, Idaho

Thanks for all the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine. I am sure the Magazine is a great help to all who read it — especially the pictures and lessons and poems. We are Baptist. It is only a small chapel, but nearly full. Again, I thank you for the Magazine.
—Mary Elizabeth Boddy
Hoole, England

Each new issue of the Magazine is a joy to receive and read. The added color makes it so inviting to open and read from cover to cover. We, the older members of the Society, have in golden years of retirement enriched by being able to read and use the Magazine and make it a part of everyday living.
—Lena B. Shaw
Lawndale, California

One day my mother encouraged me to start reading The Relief Society Magazine. Before I had read it, I thought it was just a Magazine for grownups. Now I have discovered that mother has the Magazines bound every year since 1950. I am into my fifth volume now, and I am enjoying the stories and poems very much. When I am older, I am going to be a Relief Society sister, too.
—Deborah Keverian
Provo, Utah

82
