[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 99 | Poem | Snow, Girls, and a Watcher | Ida Elaine James]
Odell Shepard, Alcott's biographer, tells us that Snow, Girls, and a Watcher Ida Elaine James I have a pressing urge to go Down this winter road of snow Though block on block there's nothing to see. Now a school-girl trudges monotonously Loaded with books — a scarf on her head — It brightens the scene with cardinal red. What I can see of her hair is straight. She turns and listens, stops to wait For a schoolmate. Now the road is girled And alive! This one's hair is curled, And her scarf is gorgeous sunflower gold. They see and yet they do not see My searching look — pass absently And disappear, as I look far — Wondering where the brief scarfs are Upon the schoolgirls once I had. I trudge along the snowy, sad, And silent road. There's nothing to see But snow and snow monotonously; Nor snow, nor girls would notice me. 99 Ramona W. Cannon ELOVED former Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, who ruled. For fifty-eight vears and then, in 1948, abdicated in favor of her daughter Juliana, died November 25 in Apeldoorn at the age of eightytwo. Ascending the throne at the age of ten, she was officially crowned at eighteen; she ruled longer than any other member of the house of Orange. A woman of wisdom, intelligence, and courage, Queen Wilhelmina showed these qualities particularly during the dark days of World War If. Upon abdicating, she asked that she be treated as "private person." MBs. ANNA ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, wife of the late Franklin Delano Roosevelt, thirtysecond President of the ee States, died November 7, 1962, 1 New York City, at the age of seventy-eight. The Eleanor Roosevelt Foundation has been set up to perpetuate her humanitarian work. Mrs. Roosevelt had been the United States Representative in the General Assembly of the United Nations and chairman of the United Nations Economic and Social Council Commission on Human Rights and first chief of the President's Commission on the Status of Women. RS. LUUKIA PELEKAT, mother of thirteen children, and grandmother of twenty-four moopunas (grandchildren) is head housekeeper of the famous Hotel Hana on the Island of Maui. An active member of the Church, Mrs. Pelekai was left a widow in 1946. She assisted her children in getting an education and several of them filled missions.. In her work at the hotel, Mrs. Pelekai gives great care to the famous koa walls, ohia wood floors, the fine paintings and _ bronzes, and the framed engravings of early Polynesians. ARY ELLEN CHASE, I renowned Biblical scholar and one of America's best-loved novelists, is the author of The Psalms for the Common Reader, which is reaping the highest of praise. She is also author of The Bible and the Common Reader. Her purpose is to help readers better to understand the meaning, background, and _ spiritual and literary beauty of this wondrous Bible poetry. Sidney Kaplan, Professor of English, University of Massachusetts, calls the book "an expert charting... Of deathless lines." 101 EDITORIAL, FEBRUARY 1963 The Modern Homemaker F a contest were held to determine the most often repeated cliche, "We live in a changing world" would surely win. Yet the element of truth in the statement is so apparent that no one can deny that we do live in a changing world. In fact, the changes in some ways leave us standing in awe, breathless and marveling, and perhaps somewhat unprepared for the speed with which our individual worlds change. Another cliche, changed slightly by Margaret Hickey, Public Affairs Editor of the Ladies Home Journal, to fit the modern woman is, '""Never underestimate the brainpower of a woman." Women in today's world need to recognize the first of these two cliches and to capitalize on the second. 'The home presents infinite possibilities for use of this brainpower in the variety of roles required of a wife and mother in present-day living. 'The creative possibilities in the care of a home and family outweigh the repetitious tasks: that may seem somewhat confining. Many a beautiful poem has been conceived while the author was engaged in prosaic manual tasks. Beautiful 102 children's clothes have been mentally designed while hands were busy washing dishes. Scripture has been committed to memory while the ironing was being accomplished. An old saying "Like Mother used to make' expresses a nostalgic picture of mother in the _ kitchen making something wonderful — so wonderful that all their lives the children look back with fondest memory to a concoction no one can make quite "lke mother used to make." 'This is one of the ways family traditions are born. Quite frequently it is not an elaborate dish that is remembered, but some family favorite into which mother stirred a little of herself — something which evokes a remembrance of mother's personality and of the taste and flavor of family life. The seasoning was more than a mixture of herbs, it was mother's delightful way.