[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 147 | Lesson | Literature — The Challenge of Walt Whitman Briant | S. Jacobs]
LITERATURE The New Birth of Freedom e America's Literature Lesson 40 — The Challenge of Walt Whitman Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 538-576). For Third Meeting, May 1963 Objective: To attempt a sympathetic approach to Whitman, that we may experience further insight into his greatness. OST critics now accept Whitman as America's greatest poet, both as spokesman for the American temperament within her own boundaries and to the world community. From the early decades of Whitman's poetic fame, he was well known abroad, and more critical studies of his work have appeared in England, France, Germany, and Denmark than in his own country. As with Poe and Henry David Thoreau, his universal qualities were first acclaimed abroad. Yet all Whitman's roots are in Nineteenth-Century America and in the traditions and cultures which, wn turn, produced it. In one sense ex- 


 tremely provincial, he transcends limits of time and place to achieve true universality. Whitman's Outward Life The second of nine children, "Walt" was born on a Long Island, New York, farm in 1819. His strong, warm-hearted mother came from an easy-going prosperous Dutch family; his father, heir to family wealth which had been lost, made desperate attempts to provide for his growing family. Conditions did not improve when the Whitmans moved to Brooklyn, New York. Leaving school at the age of twelve, he worked as office boy and typesetter, but additional education came through extensive reading and experience. He learned the printing trade, was an_ itinerant schoolteacher for four years, and, from 1853 to 1855, he was a carpenter. He edited many journals and was active in the Democratic party until by 1846 he became editor of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, a newspaper of some influence. In his editorials he was aggressively patriotic, supporting enthusiastically the expansion into the vast American west. An idealistic Jeffersonian he would rather have a rich average population than a rich government. He believed that moral reform begins in each man's heart and that all enduring principles, democracy included, must be constantly defended. In 1848 he left the Daily Eagle for New Orleans, Louisiana, taking his fifteen-year-old brother Thomas Jefferson Whitman with him. Here he worked as an editor for four months before returning home to 148 WALT WHITMAN _ age continue newspaper editing. This was the only trip he made past the eastern seaboard until he was sixty. When, in 1862, his brother George Washington Whitman, who was serving im the Civil War, was wounded, Walt went to Virginia to nurse him. For three years he spent so much of his time as a volunteer nurse in the field hospitals that his health broke. He was appointed clerk in the Department of the Interior in 1865 and, later, received an appointment in the Attorney General's office where he worked for nine years. He lectured on the life of Abraham Lincoln each year, and from royalties and gifts was able to buy a house in Camden, New _ Jersey, where he lived unmarried. In 1873, a stroke caused partial paralysis, and for the next ten years his health was not good, and sometimes he was in actual want, a condition remedied by friends once it was discovered. He died in 1892, at the age of 73. The New Nation's New Poet During the late 1840's and early 1850's Whitman became increasingly aware of the unique destiny his country was to fulfill. Never had such a combination of cultures existed before, free from the withering restraints of entrenched privileges. Never had the common man been so favored, so near to achieving those high goals of which mankind had always dreamed; never had man's potential divinity seemed so near attainment. 'The Americans, of all nations, at any time upon the earth have probablv the fullest poetical nature. The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem," he wrote in 1855. He LESSON DEPARTMENT believed fervently that there is "nothing in the known universe more divine than men and women and the woman equal with the man." Whitman made equality the keystone of great poetry: Come to us on equal terms. Only then can you understand us. We are no better than you. What we enclose you enclose, what we enjoy you may enjoy (Preface to Leaves of Grass). With rare sensitivity Whitman sought to catch the overtones of all facets of life in vigorous, expanding, young America. In "I Hear America Singing' he records in poetic symbol the varied songs that he hears: I HEAR AMERICA SINGING I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear, Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be, blithe and strong, The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam, The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work, The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck, The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as he stands, The wood-cutter's song, the ploughboy's on his way in the morning, or at noon intermission or at sundown, The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work, or of the girl sewing or washing, Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else, The day what belongs to the day — at night the party of young fellows, robust, friendly, Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs. "Leaves of Grass'' His first volume of poetry, entitled Leaves of Grass, was published by Whitman in 1855. It was a large paged, thin volume, comprising a dozen untitled poems preceded by a long preface. Odd in style and format, it was original in mood, thought, wit, and wisdom. In the prose preface Whitman explained what he "was up to" — a poetic revolution. He felt, perhaps even more than did Emerson, that (From Leaves of Grass) the new Nation needed a "new voice" to be the spokesman for all America. Whitman attempted to become that spokesman. He was convinced that this "new voice" should use new and original poetic forms. He therefore rejected the traditional forms of English verse: regular meters, rhyme, stanza patterns, elaborate similies, and allusions to the classics and Middle Ages. Fiver since Leaves of Grass ap- 


 peared, it has aroused almost every type of response among Whitman's ever-increasing audience, but rarely if ever indifference. Both form and content of Whitman's poetry have been too revolutionary, too new, to move a first reader merely to mild appreciation or scorn; the reaction is usually strong, and for a complexity of reasons. Sometimes repeated readings over the years have but intensifed the original response; sometimes first impressions have changed. When now we may come to Whitman without opportunity to allow his versions of reality to be matured within us through time, what will our reactions be? Here lies substantial challenge indeed. To the second edition of Leaves of Grass, which appeared in 1856, Whitman included many additional poems. In fact, throughout his life he continued to supplement, rewrite, and revise the contents of the volume. Although individual poems or groups of poems were often published separately, they were finally incorporated in the parent volume.. "One's-Self I Sing," which has commonly been placed first in this collection, sums up the general theme of the poems. Here Whitman announces that he sings of "modern man," the individual common man in a democratic society. ONE'S-SELF I SING One's-self I sing, a simple separate person, Yet utter the word Democratic, the word En-Masse. Of physiology from top to toe I sing, Not physiognomy alone nor brain alone is worthy for the Muse, I say the Form complete is worthier far, The Female equally with the Male I sing. Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power, Cheerful, for freest action form'd under the laws divine, The Modern Man I sing. Whitman was a great lover of nature, animals, cities, his America, his fellow humans of all races and ranks, and his fancy — the magnificently developed tool which enabled him to communicate this love. Good-bye my Fancy! He loved his poetic self-image so fully that he gave his life to its fulfillment. A large key to unraveling the complexity that is Whitman ls found in the final poem in Leaves of Grass: Farewell dear mate, dear love! I'm going away, I know not where, Or to what fortune, or whether I may ever see you again, So Good-bye my Fancy. Long indeed have we lived, slept, filter'd, become really blended into one; Then if we die we die together, (yes, we'll remain onc,) If we go anywhere we'll go together to meet what happens.... Now finally, — Good-bye — and hail! My Fancy. 150 The joy of merely being alive has no greater exponent than Whitman. Always he praised a_ vigorous, healthy body, vibrant, free and unafraid. He loved to walk alone at night in nature, best of all along the beach with its booming surf. He swam often, bathed regularly, and was so spotless with his casual LESSON DEPARTMENT white shirt open at the throat, that people meeting him for the first time often received the impression that he had just bathed, so cleanly and serenely did he glow. Throughout his life he regarded evil as a sickness and praised cleanness and ruddy health: O to make the most jubilant song! Full of music — full of manhood, womanhood, infancy! Full of common employments — full of grain and trees. — "A Song of Joy" Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road, Healthy, free, the world before me, The long brown path before me leading wherever I choose. — "Song of the Open Road"... I loved well those cities, loved well the stately and rapid river, The men and women I saw were all near to me. I too lived, Brooklyn of ample hills was mine, I too walk'd the streets of Manhattan island, and bathed in the waters around it. Flow on, river! Flow with the flood-tide, and ebb with the ebb-tide! Frolic on, crested and scallop-edg'd waves! Gorgeous clouds of the sunset! Drench with your splendor me, or the men and women generations after me! Whitman's senses were so acutely alert that his sensate images are — "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" (Text, page 548) unforgettable, and are central to his narrative gift: Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full-dazzling, Give me juicy autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard.... Give me fresh corn and wheat, give me serene-moving animals teaching content. Thinking of Whitman as a poet dedicated to the vigor of life, it may seem strange to find that death is _the theme of his masterpieces. Yet have not love and life in all great poetry embraced the realitv of death? Representative are the following: "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bleom'd" (text, page — "Give Me the Splendid Silent Sun" (Text, page 555) 559), "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" (text, page 551), and "Passage to India" (text, page 563). The Civil War mnpened Whitman's compassion for his courageous brothers on both sides of the conflict. No one has depicted this great and heroic conflict more truly: 


 RECONCILIATION (1865) Word over all, beautiful as the sky, Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time be utterly lost, That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly softly wash again, and ever again, this soil'd world; For my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead, I look where he lies white-faced and still in the coffin — I draw near, Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face in the coffin. (Text, page 558) Man is most truly himself when he is in mystical communion with something larger than himself, and above him:.. When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room, How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself, In the mystical moist might-air, and from time to time, Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars. — "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer" Whitman's Poetic Art Believing that poetry exists "to indicate the path between reality and the soul," Whitman felt the poet's first great function was to bring the reader, through his senses, an experiencing of the simple, good, natural world about him, as evidence of God's universal presence. And if poetry was to do this, it must be that which it is, hence its necessary simplicity, directness, complete frankness and honesty, as opposed to traditional structures, subjects, ornamentation, and _ar- (Text, page 555) tificiality which Whitman found in all other poets. There are those who feel that Whitman's poetic art is a mystery — unexplainable; that his way with words, the power of his phrasing is not to be defined, yet these qualities are characteristic of all great poets. In his expressive lines we find such freshness and originality as are to be found in Shakespeare, in Dante, and Homer. From his "Leaves of Grass' witness the impact of these following first lines of poems: I celebrate myself. I sing the body electric.... There was a child went forth every day. Weapon, shapely, naked, wan!... Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road. A woman waits for me. Out of the cradle endlessly rocking.... I hear America singing. A noiseless, patient spider... 152 Yet Whitman often failed to sustain the miracle of his first lines. Frequently he seemed unconcerned with the architectural aspect of the complete poem, and he often beLESSON DEPARTMENT comes tiresome through an endless cataloguing of details. Some of his poems, however, are flawless in their organization. Such is A NOISELESS PATIENT SPIDER A noiseless patient spider, I mark'd where on a little promontory it stood isolated, Mark'd how to explore the vacant vast surrounding, It launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself, Ever unreeling them, ever tirelessly speeding them. And you O my soul where you stand, Surrounded, detached, in measureless oceans of space, Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throwing, seeking the spheres to connect them, Till the bridge you will need be form'd, till the ductile anchor hold, Till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere, O my soul. Conclusion Not even Poe has provoked as much controversy as to his true identity as has Whitman. More than fifty book-length studies have been written in attempting to explain the mystery of his life and its relation to his poems. No one critic has succeeded in saying the last word. Collectively, however, they do succeed in proving the diversity of response to so complex a genius as Whitman. Always he has been the center of controversy. Thus to know the true Whitman becomes increasingly difficult. The man who is Leaves of Grass is indeed a reality, just as Homet's Ulysses, Shakespeare's Hamlet, and Melville's Ahab are real, within that realm of the imaginative recreation of life, which is literature. The enduring real Whitman is his poems, which may or may not have anv relation to his documented personal life. The Whitman who is (Text, page 569) real and great is fictional and poetic, just as the real Dickens is Scrooge and 'Tiny Tim who were born within the inner self but were never the actual Dickens. Only to the degree that the poet Whitman image has become a friendly one, and thus eligible to receive a sympathetic hearing, is his poetry at all useful to us. Only then have we prepared ourselves for the second step — to allow him to come to us in flashes through poems chosen at random which may fairly indicate him at his best. Only when we are freed from prejudices within ourselves, as we approach poetry so frighteningly new as Whitman's or in relation to the person who was Whitman, are we enabled to accept Whitman's poetic power and the greatness of the poems which are his four masterpieces: "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry," "Out of the Cradle End- 


 lessly Rocking," "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd," and "Passage to India." Only when we are thus candid and free, when we no longer blame Whitman for his bold poetic freedoms and creative newness, but, instead, reconsider our own reliance on the security of tradition, then and then only can a sympathetic reading of him give us further insight into his creative greatness. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Granting that America was built on a new idea in lieu of a tradition, discuss the comparative merits of having such ideas expressed in a new literary form. 2. "I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear.'' Never before nor since have these American carols been heard and communicated as they were by Whitman. Really, did he hear America singing, or himself? Discuss the relationship — between the "'singer" and the song. 3. How do you account for Whitman's great influence abroad and his comparative neglect at home? SOCIAL SCIENCE @ Divine Law and Church Government perl - nnlertiem «6 (Ea cieeke FComasere a Bal, Foundation of Church Wwovernment Lesson 7 — Summary Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, May 1963 Objective: Church government. To focus the attention on the importance of divine law as the basis for By these things we know that there is a God in heaven, who ls infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them (D & C 20:17). Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee (Job 22:21). HE objective of our course of study is to understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children. In our lessons, we have been examining the evidence of God's interest in man's welfare. 'This can be seen in the rules of conduct, personal directions, and basic principles of living that God has presented to man to guide, encourage, and lead him into the expression of 154 his finest qualities. When man has been able to recognize the wisdom of God and relate the values of the divine law to his own life and accomplishments, and do this of his own choice, he then has begun to move up the scale of progress toward the objective of his Creator. The Divine Law 'l'here can be little, if any, meaning to any person in the above state- ment unless that person has a firm conviction that God lives, that man is his spiritual offspring, and that there is divine purpose in the creation of man. With the faith necessary for such a conviction, any person can recognize the wisdom of God expressed in divine law. He can also understand that divine law operates through the Priesthood of God for man's welfare, and that Church government is Priesthood in action. These things being true, the kingdom of God or his Church is where and when the divine law operates through individuals possessing the authority to act in his name upon the earth for the happiness and welfare of mankind. The Challenge to Man In the creation the earth was made for man as a place for his development. In the command given to Adam and Eve to subdue the earth and have dominion over every living thing, there was a challenge for the development of both physical and mental powers. The earth was so organized that every temporal need could be obtained through the application of effort and_ intelligence. At the same time, man was challenged spiritually. If he could keep in tune with the source of light and truth by which the earth was organized, his task of subduing the earth and his personal perfection would be made easier and with more rapid strides. Directions for Successful Living Man was not placed upon the earth and left without help. God provided him with direction for successful living, through the law by which the plan of life and salvation LESSON DEPARTMENT may realize its purpose. The Father further assisted by commissioning man with his power and authority, the Holy Priesthood. Through this power, continued revelation from heaven would clarify and expand the law of God. This assistance would be available provided the Priesthood was honored, for divine law is the way of truth and light. Those who deny God deal in darkness, for the light of divine revelation is shut off and thev have no guidance but the reasoning of their own minds. The divine law is plain, simple, and concise. It is the expression of God's will concerning the behavior of his children in their relationship with each other. Divine law establishes man's relationship to God and clarifies his duties and responsibilities to his Creator. Man is taught to love God with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. 'The second foundation law is to love his neighbor as himself. The law goes on to say that on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. "... By love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Gal. 5:13-14). The Importance of Choice The essentials of the divine law were revealed to Adam and have been with man in each dispensation to the present time. All mankind is given the eternal heritage of free choice. The divine law is to be established in the hearts of men by teaching, persuasion, long-suffering and love unfeigned. Love is the motivation of divine law. Force is the tool of Satan and has no place in the divine plan. 'To enjoy the 


 blessing of exaltation one must know the truth, receive the light of Christ, and choose righteousness of his own free will. The Need for Repentance From the beginning, there have been those who chose darkness rather than light. Each dispensation saw this percentage increase until the masses of mankind are outside the divine law. In each dispensation the Lord has organized his Church on the basis of the divine law revealed to Adam. Wherever the Church government has been organized, it has been done through men holding the Priesthood of God. The great responsibility of the Church is to teach repentance and baptism. The ones to whom the call to repentance is directed are those who 1. Fail to recognize God the Eternal Father, 2. Refuse to accept the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and his redeeming mission, 3. Set their hearts on the things of this world, 4. Aspire to the honors of men, 5s. Not knowing God contend against him, 6. In short, become selfish, greedy, and give freedom to their carnal desires and appetites. The Light of Truth The following are essential teachings from the divine law that have been available to mankind from Adam's day on: 1. The reality of God and his availability to man, 2. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that his mission is to redeem mankind, 3. That the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is a member of the Godhead and the special wit- 156 ness of the Father and the Son to mankind. He is a _ continuous source of light and truth to the world. 4. The acceptance of revelation as a continuous flow of the divine wisdom to enlighten mankind, 5. The acceptance of love as the motivating force in the gospel of Jesus Christ and in man's achievement, 6. The personal responsibility for growth and advancement, the eternal challenge of mental and spiritual development. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D & C 93:36). These teachings are basic to the proper understanding of man's relationship to God, and his place and purpose on this earth. The divine law leaves nothing to chance. 'The teachings are not based on ignorance, superstition, or fear. 'They require of man the highest motives for action (love of God and love of fellow men), personal responsibility for achievement (the freedom of choice), and unlimited development of mental capacity (perfection, with Christ the example). In following divine law, man would be able to remove the most serious obstacles to progress (fear, ignorance, and superstition) and at the same time be relieved of the dissipation of much energy (trial and error method of arriving). 'The nearer one lives to the divine influence the freer the flow of inspiration and_ revelation and, consequently, the more light and truth available. Thus more truth can be discovered and accepted, and as truth and light increase, the less influence evil can have over the possessor of light and truth. Divine Law and Man's Earthly Progress Man had a common origin. Adam and Eve, the first parents, were placed here by the wisdom and power of God. 'There was reason and purpose in the creation and the reason and purpose applied to all men for they are all his children. The plan included freedom of choice, which, in order to be effective, required a forgetting of the experience in the spirit world; it included the presence of opposition so that freedom of choice could be effective. 'The first man was placed in a stimulating environment, being permitted to walk and talk with God and challenged with the idea of using the natural resources of this earth to satisfy his needs. Thus, man was imbued from heaven with the feeling of discontent, to find out, to investigate the unknown, to seek the answers to all perplexities of life arising from temporal, intellectual and spiritual experience. All men did not follow the revelations of the divine will. In time the masses of the earth lost this contact. They pulled away from the teachings of God, they lost the leadership of the Holy Priesthood and the direct influence of God in their activities. However, the inspiration of heaven has always been available to the children of men. Being the spirit children of God and created in his image provides the setting that makes all men reach up, putting forth effort to improve their status. For everv man that comes into the world is lighted by the light of Christ which is the light of truth. (See D & C 84:44-46.) Today, for certain, we live in the LESSON DEPARTMENT fulness of times. God has spoken to the earth restoring his Priesthood. The government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. The Church is destined to bring to a completion the plan of life and salvation. In a material sense man has reached a pinnacle of discovery and invention. Built on the accumulation of the culture of the past, inspired by the Spirit of light and truth, there have developed new and fabulous means and methods of meeting man's needs and in solving his problems. Speed, power, and precision dominate our mechanized world. Man's greatest lag is in human relations and understanding. This is the mission of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bring to the world the love of God and consideration of and love for mankind.