[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 84 | Special Feature | Charity, the Heart of Relief Society Marion | G. Romney]
[Charity, the Heart of Relief Society Marion G. Romney]
83 CHARITY The Heart of Relief Society Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Departmental Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 4, 1962! Appreciate very much the invitation to speak to you today. In their gracious invitation, your General Presidency said the welfare work is to be presented in this meeting. 'They suggested, however, that my remarks not be confined to your part in the Church Welfare Program only but that they deal also with the broad scope of Relief Society ministration as declared by the Prophet Joseph when he said, "'this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads" (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 607). This is the heart of Relief Society work. It seems to me that the Prophet Joseph did make it abundantly clear that administering to the physical and spiritual needs of people is the real heart of Relief Society work. This is a charitable society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation im which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 605). Defining the area in which the sisters were to function, however, he said: Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your 84 own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 607). As you have so often been reminded, the Relief Society was organized under the direction of the Priesthood — not as a restriction, but as an added endowment. As President Clark said, in Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1940: The unique qualification of priesthood blessing and promise that is yours, that sets you apart from all other organizations, and that gives you a power and authority that no other women's organization in the world possesses, brings with it certain duties and responsibilities which determine and fix your work, which... Must follow the pattern of the labors of Jesus, relieving human woe, and ministering to spiritual wants. That, it seems to me, is the very heart of your work — "relieving human woe and ministering to spiritual wants." President Clark continues: Now when the Prophet set up the Relief Societies, the revelations regarding the bishops and their duties had already been given. His instructions to the Relief Society must be read in the light of these instructions. The bishop is charged by the Lord with the obligation of caring for the poor. No one else has ever been so charged. However, the Relief Society has an important relationship to the care of the poor, because the Prophet said that the Society's. Object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.. With the resources they will have at their command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. Evidently in the beginning the Relief Society sisters used their own funds to supply the wants of the needy. They were, however, to receive their instructions through the order of the Priesthood. This they have always done. This is the order in our present day Welfare work. The methods of providing the necessities have changed, as you well know. But much is still required of the Relief Society and much _ has been given. Volumes could be written on what has been done by the sisters of the Church by way of supplying clothing, preservation of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor. That labor has been appreciated. 'The Church Welfare Plan could scarcely have been carried forward without it. I believe you have been grateful for your assignments, for you have done even more than has been required. Your work meetings have been full of spirit and joy because you knew that the things you were making were really needed. I have here a report from the Ammon Stake in Idaho, which illustrates the co-operation of Relief Society and Priesthood. During CHARITY, THE HEART OF RELIEF SOCIETY their February stake conference, warm rains caused the rising of streams everywhere. By the time the Sunday morning session was ended, main roads were flooded. "By four o'clock we were really aang the report says. ""... Men were running, not walking, as they would help each other... It was neighbor helping neighbor...." By eight-thirty p. M., bishops had their men organized and were ready to help evacuate families to the school gymnasium. But when the first families were taken there the bishops did not have the heart to leave them in the big, cold gym with just tumbling mats spread out on the floor. So they made arrangements with Church members who were not flooded to take them into their homes. Many had called us and offered their homes. Here we see the spirit of the heart of Welfare and Relief Society at work. The next morning help began arriving from neighboring stakes. The President... Of the South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society had her women organized to help with [not distribution of Welfare supplies, which was done by the Preisthood, but with what only women could see as needs] washing, ironing, and baby tending. Of course, hot meals were prepared for the cold, wet workers. 'The details are most interesting. A nursery was set up where 120 children were fed and cared for by women and girls working in shifts. 'The use of two large laundromats was donated for use from nine P. M. Until morning. The work brought unexpected blessings. The sharing of each oth- 


 ers burdens brought love of each other. "Indeed," says the report, "we feel like brothers and sisters.... We are all so grateful for our blessings, and especially for our Church, which makes a disaster in Zion a blessing" ("Disaster in Zion — A Flood in Ammon Stake — February 11, 1962,' report by President Cecil E. Hart, chairman of the Eastern Idaho Church Welfare Region). You see, sisters, we do not engage in charity as a business. It is the natural expression of our love for one another. It should be remembered, however, that caring for the physical needs of people is only one, and not perhaps the most important, of Relief Society's manifold charitable duties and obligations; for, as the Prophet said, ""The Relief Society ls not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'To the accomplishment of this objective the Prophet gave specific instructions, one of which was "to purge out iniquity." To be prepared to carry forward their great work, the women were to first purify themselves. He warned


them to beware of self-righteousness. "Be limited," he said "in the estimate of your own virtues and not think yourselves more righteous than others. You must enlarge your souls towards each other." He further reminded them that: As females possess fine feelings and sensitiveness, they are also subject to overmuch zeal, which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be ngid in a religious capacity.... [ have one request to make of the President and members of the society, that you search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member — hold your tongues about things of no moment — a little tale will set the world on 86 fire. I do not want to cloak iniquity — all things contrary to the will of God, should be cast from us, but don't do more hurt than good, with your tongues — be pure in heart (History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 19-20). In a previous speech, he had said, concerning loyalty to husbands: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (History of the Church, Vol. IV, pp. 606-7). Surely that is true, not only as to your husbands but as to all members of your household. You need to do more for your children than just supply their physical wants. Certainly, as indicated by statistics concerning juvenile delinquency and crime, they need security and guidance. They need encouragement and appreciation. Someone has said that there are at least three things parents can do for their children — Stop, Look, and Listen; and three more that will go a long ways towards comforting them in their problems are Praise, Encouragement, and Expression of Confidence. Sisters, guard the dignity of the members of your own families. We strive to do that in Welfare; you do it in your homes. I am reminded of an article by Brother Wendell Ashton in The Instructor of August 1962. He tells about twelve young men who met to discuss "The College Man — His Attitudes." One of the collegians said the thing he wanted most out of life was to be appreciated. "That's more important to me," he said, "than making a barrelful of money." Brother Ashton continued, "There is much in every man's life to appreciate. And there is nothing on this earth that deserves and desires appreciation more than a human soul" (WENDELL J. AsHTON, "To Be Appreciated," The Instructor, August 1962, outside back cover). And let me add, no soul desires and deserves appreciation more than your own family, your intimate acquaintances, and your neighbors, old or young, rich or poor. It is the duty of Relief Society members and all Church members to look to and purify themselves, to love and to care for, encourage and appreciate the members of their own household, and to extend that love to their neighbors. This is an area in which we get into a sphere of action where no - bishop can tell us just what to do. No person other than ourselves can solve our individual problems or direct our specific actions because conditions change and vary. However, principles governing character building and spiritual growth do not change. They persist eternally. We must act on those principles if we would have joy in performing our duty. This is the area where we act, not as an organization, but as members of the Relief Society. We act according to the principle pronounced by the Lord in the 58th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants where he said:. It is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a CHARITY, THE HEART OF RELIEF SOCIETY slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (D & C 58: 26-28). Jesus said, "... Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Matthew 5:41). Someone has spoken of this work done on one's own initiative as follows: The second mile, the mile of one's own choosing, assures the victory. The second mile changes acquaintance into a friend, affection into love, quarrel into reconciliation, resentment into forgiveness, duty into joy, failure into success, existence into gracious living, prejudice into understanding, belief into faith (Nancy M. ArmsTRONG, "The Second Mile,' The Relief Society Magazine, February 1962, page 97).
