[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 154 | Lesson | Social Science — Summary Ariel | S. Ballif]
[Social Science — Summary Ariel S. Ballif]
Divine Law and Eternal Progress Reference is frequently made to this life as one phase in the plan of life and salvation. 'The plan was presented by the Father to the great council in heaven. 'There great decisions were made. The eternal principle of free agency was expressed. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, volunteered his service and sacrifice to fulfill the plan of the Father for the redemption of mankind. The plan made earth life the experiment in agency, discipline, development of intelligence, and for eternal progress by obedience to the divine law given to regulate human relationships. The plan of life includes eternity. It is God's plan and he is eternal. The law governing the plan is God's law and therefore is eternal. Still 


 more important is the fact that Priesthood, which is the power to act in God's name, must be present to carry out the plan. Progress on earth or in eternity is vitally connected with the powers of the Priesthood. Fulness of the Priesthood is the basis of eternal progress. Priesthood, _ therefore, takes on great significance. It is authority to administer the ordinances, ceremonies, and establish duties of the Church; it is more than a system, it is creative power of God given to men to create, devise, and initiate movements, institutions and activities that serve the welfare of Luman souls and that will open the way to significant, challenging growth activities on the part of the possessors. Priesthood implies progress as well as preservation and conservation. Men holding the Priesthood who cannot see the dynamic creative significance of Priesthood cannot possibly magnify their Priesthood and calling (Lambert: Foundations of Religious Life, page 129). The plan of life and salvation is one of progress, constantly moving up or toward the perfection of Jesus Christ. Divine Law and Church Government In the beginning of our lessons, we accepted the definition of divine as that which pertains to God. Dtvine law is the mind and will of God in reference to the welfare of his children on earth. 'These laws have to do with regulation and direction of the relationships of mankind. Divine law is a way of life as defined by the Creator which provides the greatest challenge for achievement to the minds of men. It was the divine law that was given to Adam as the direction for subduing the earth. And being the children of God, even though mankind 158 generally strayed away from the direct contact with the divine influence, it is the divine factor of the light of truth that gives light to every man, that has had a direct bearing on the intellectual and material progress that mankind has achieved. Generally speaking, government ls the exercise of administrative powers. The basis of government is found in the agreement and laws men accept to define the powers of government. Divine law or the wisdom of God is the warp and woof of Church government. And Church government is the Priesthood in action. Through our review of the dispensations of time, we have noted the consistency with which divine law operates. We have seen that the Lord does not do anything except through his commissioned servants. Truly his is a house of order. In a similar manner, we have noted that there is purpose in the creation of man and the earth. The major point of the purpose ls to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. The divine law comes from God who is eternal; it functions in this life as a directing force, helping men to achieve the fulness of their potentialities here and now and at the same time preparing them so that they can feel at home in the presence of God throughout eternity. Divine law, then, is the foundation upon which the government of the Church (the Priesthood in action) is established. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What is the first essential to under standing the divine mission of Jesus Christ? 2. What is the difference in motivation between the laws of God and the laws of men? 3. What part does the divine influence play in the intellectual development of the people of the world? 4. Does membership in the Church of Christ guarantee the blessings of God? Justify your answer. What is the advantage intellectually in being baptized a member of the Church and being in tune with the Holy Ghost? 6. What is the main purpose of our existence in this world? The six previous lessons, and all of the references given for each lesson. - & - Margery S. Stewart Down on the beach Anemones are clinging To little pools of sea, To rocks where tides are bringing Coral and leis. Children come dancing, With mischievous toes They touch the sea flowers To watch them close In a delicate shower. We are too tall to bend; We cannot really see How anemones open So industriously. Too tall to be sand-sized And be lost under Anemone fountains Or a child's wonder. LESSON DEPARTMENT SACRED MUSIC FOR WOMEN'S THREE PART CHORUSES ( ) ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 ( ) AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner _ -0-- ------.---20eeoe-.30 ( ) COME UNTO HIM "MESSIAH'—Handel.20 ( ) COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen -.20 ( ) GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen - -25 ( ) IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen...25 ( ) INCLINE YOUR EAR—Wilkes...25 ( ) LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 ( ) LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.20 ( ) HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle 25 ( ) MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach ooooo cone ee ec eeeecee eee.25 ( ) UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated 1; above. {1 On Approval [] Charge i [J] Money Enclosed '! 1 i Nome oon cecececccccccencencennensncececececece ea a a a a ae ee ee a eS AASNAILLA TAHA 15 E. Ist South! Salt Lake City 11, Utah I 5 ye > 5 I GE GR aEENT Go SEE a wee aoe ae Gee ae GE ew EE EE See ee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee eee em 159 One Hundred Mrs. Acnges Brack McCiLeop Alhambra, California Ninety-seven Mrs. EvizaBetu JANE I'aytor McINTIRE Rexburg, Idaho Ninety-five Mrs. Marinpba C. PETERSON Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Mary Caro. TinE MortTENSEN CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado Ninety-two Mrs. Marcaret MevissaA WHITNEY CHANDLER Springfield, Idaho Mrs. Mary ExizasetuH Davis Horrin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cole FRANCOM Tremonton, Utah MarInDA SNOW FRANDSEN Provo, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Loretta 'TUCKER JOHNSON Oakland, California Mrs. ExvizABETH MALINDA PADGETT Boone Brunswick, Georgia Mrs. RacuHeL THomas PETERSON Ogden, Utah Mrs. CHarLoTTE Woop NIcHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Jutia ANN REBECCA ANELL Jacksonville, Florida Mrs.
