[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 105 | Fiction | The New Pioneers of Wales - | Elena Neale]
The New Pioneers of Wales Elena Neale EI\AN sat back in her chair, closJ ing her book with a sigh. Oh, how she wished she had been born a hundred years ago. Reading about Church history was a favorite pastime of Jean's. 'To her it seemed as if all the romance of being a Latter-day Saint belonged to those faroff days. Dan Jones had come to Wales and taught the gospel and made many converts in South Wales. Most of those people had emigrated to America and had either traveled in covered wagons or had made their own handcarts and pushed them to Salt Lake. Jean could just picture herself struggling along the trail in her bare feet, with a faded gingham gown on, and an equally faded sunbonnet. How brave she would have been when they had met Indians, or had gone short of water or food! Then, at last, to reach the Vallev where the saints were — to help to build it up into the beautiful place that it was now! 'That was a time to have lived, not now when everything was so ordinary. Oh, well. Jean rose with another sigh and started to lay the table for the evening meal. Dad would be home soon from work, and her brothers from school, and Mum from Relief Society meeting. Jean was a convert to the Church, as were all her family. The mis- 106 sionaries had knocked on their door one August day in 1955 and, eventuallv, had baptized the whole family. Now she was grown up, all of eighteen years, and working in an office, today being her day off. Jean was rather petite, with large black eyes and silky black hair, and a very romantic disposition. Her father was branch president of their small branch in Wales, and her mother was a Primary teacher. Jean herself taught the little ones in Sunday School and loved doing it. 'They were all active in the Church, but sometimes it seemed to Jean as if it were rather pointless. Just then the door opened and in came Mum. "Hello, Jean," she said, "have you had a quiet afternoon to yourself?" "Yes," said Jean, "I finished that book on Church history." "Good," said Mum. "I must find time to read it, when I can. Come on now, pet, let's get a meal ready before Dad comes home. You haven't forgotten that we are all going out tonight?" "No," said Jean, "I am looking forward to it. It's not often we get one of the leaders of our Church to speak to us." Tonight had been set apart for a district meeting, when all the branches were meeting to listen to a talk from one of the Authorities of the Church. Jean had no more time for daydreaming then, as each member of the family came in for the meal. It was all rush to get everything over in time, and to get ready to go. They were lucky to live so close to the school where the meeting was to be held, and soon they were there. Jean loved these gatherings of the saints. Here one felt at home with everyone, and it was a pleasure to renew one's acquaintance with friends from other branches. At last everyone was seated in the hall, with the speakers on the platform. 'The district president rose, and the meeting went on as planned. At last it came to the turn of the main speaker. He was a fine-looking man, so clean, so strong, and a good example of Latter-day Saint living. Jean sat back to listen carefully to him. His first words made her sit up, however, as he said how good it was to be here with "the Church's new pioneers." Jean listened, enthralled! 'This was an aspect of being a convert that she had never realized before. It was true, everything he said. The pioneers of a hundred years ago had played their part as was required of them, but there were still goals to be reached. Wales was a district now, with scattered branches in it, but one day it would be a stake. Every individual member had a duty to perform in spreading the gospel among friends. Every member had a duty to perform by attending sacrament mectings, and supporting the auxiliaries. 'ST FERE in this hall," went on the speaker, "are the new pioneers, ready to build Wales up THE NEW PIONEERS OF WALES to become a strength in the mission field. Just as your ancestors helped to build up Salt Lake City and the other parts of Utah, here you must build up the Church. 'To have a knowledge of the gospel and a strong testimony is not enough, if one keeps it to oneself. We must build up our meetings until people will be queuing up to join in with us. Make our meetings friendly, attractive places, with a smiling welcome for everyone. Do what we can to bring converts in. Strengthen our Priesthood, support our presidents." The speaker went on for some time on this theme, and when the meeting was over, everyone felt charged with a new enthusiasm, especially Jean. At home that evening, her father was already making plans for the branch and his counselors were supporting him. Jean escaped to her bedroom after family prayers, and sat down to review the evening. Only this afternoon she had been bemoaning her lot, as an ordinary Latter-day Saint, with nothing to do. Now a whole new field of activity opened in front of her. Here was a challenge which just had to be taken up! Were the people of Wales today going to be outdone by their ancestors of Dan Jones' time? No, not if she could do anything about it. Jean went down on her knees to pray for guidance and strength from the Lord, and forgiveness for her apathy in the past. Daydreaming was over. At last she, too, was a pioneer! 107 Mone with Lrauly Alice R. Rich EAUTY one day manifested itself and brought joy, deep and satisfying, to pioneer eight-year-old Nellie, as she went about her evening chores in late summer. In that cool twilight hour she let the soft sand sift through the sun-browned toes of her bare feet, while she waited for the last of the family milk cows to come through the open gate from the upper pasture on their way to the corral. Their lowing made pleasant echoes as the sound came back from the rugged cliffs of the high Pine Valley Mountains to the west. Nellie had started a little early on this regular activity tonight, so she could watch a wild primrose plant blossom. It stood only a little way from the wagon road, made flinty hard by the passing of many ironrimmed wagon wheels, as they hauled the countless loads of farm produce and the sturdy cords of firewood brought from the nearby hillsides to be burned in the iron cook stoves and wide fireplaces. Nellie had first seen the primrose plant when a tiny green point pierced the hard, dry soil. She had watched morning and evening as she brought the cows to and from the pasture and marveled at the growth of the primrose in the hard earth, with only the infrequent summer showers to water it. 'Tonight, the veined leaves spread over the ground, and three swollen buds curled to- 108 gether in the center, tightly wrapped in cone-shaped calyxes. She was sure that the flower would bloom that night. Hurriedly, she urged the cows through the corral gate, fastened the lock, and went back to watch beside the plant. She sat on the cooling soil with arms clasped around her bare knees to watch the primrose on this night of nights, for she had looked forward to this time since first she had discovered the struggling plant with its green points piercing the soil. A striped-back chipmunk frisked his bushy tail and scurried along the pole fence, his cheeks bulging with garnered food for winter storing. When he saw Nellie he paused to chatter a word of scolding. A hurried glance at him was all she could spare. She must not let her eyes move from looking at the flower a single second, she must see the bud open and convince herself that Jack, with his beanstalk, wasn't the only one who knew the miracle of plant growth. A noisy crow flew over her head on his way to the cedar thicket; a meadow lark sang his cheery song from the beech tree on the creek bank; and the nightly frog orchestra from Lawson's meadow sent its croaking notes over the still might air. Nellie usually enjoyed all these lovely sights and sounds, but tonight she gave them only a passing thought. She must keep her eyes and thoughts on the swelling primrose bud; she must see it open. An exquisite fragrance came from the primrose plant through the cool air. One green frond uncurled, and part of a petal lifted the edge of its curled yellow satin head ever so slightly. Then a quivering tear opened further in the green, and one bud stood almost upright in its swollen cone. The miracle was happening! Next, a deep yellow seam opened from top to base of the bud. Then a calyx opened, and the bud stretched itself as a second seam split and the second calyx opened itself out and down to let a soft center pistil lift and make way for the last calyx to unfold and let the