[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Progress (Continued)]
In regard to the use of wealth for social progress, it can hardly be devoted to a higher means than the provision of better houses, better clothing, a more adequate food supply, and greater conveniences and pleasures for the advancement of humanity at large. Such a wide distribution of the benefits of wealth cannot be brought about without an extension of ideals and education in that direction. How it is to be managed is a yet unsolved. But as long as some people accumulate more money than they need for even a luxurious standard of life, and others have much less than they need for the necessities of life the problem of the use and distribution of wealth will remain a challenge to those interested in social progress. However, it is desirable to present this ideal, because when even a small number of people become aware of the fact that such an ideal is worth striving for as a means of supporting democratic governments, religious organizations, and other prevailing institutions in the countries that these lessons serve, education towards social progress has undoubtedly been stimulated.

Mention should be made of the great influence that education, science, and the arts have as conditioning factors in influencing human behavior. They come to people almost as gifts because they are available to every one who cares to take advantage of the opportunities offered at his very door; but they should not be taken too much for granted. None of them are either all good or all bad in their influence as "conditioners." Any one of these factors may be used either towards progress or retrogression. In addition to the great benefit that education is to mankind, it may teach false standards. Art and all supposedly cultural subjects may be evil in their influence. Science may tear down spiritual and religious values. But none of them need to. And it is the responsibility of those who are interested in social progress to obtain an understanding of what will lead to progress along these lines according to the highest meaning that he is capable of understanding. But the layman cannot do this alone.

All these conditioning factors can be mastered only through proficient and specialized leadership in the fields mentioned, and with the intelligent cooperation on the part of the layman. We should seek spiritual guidance for the benefit of social progress through prayer and through contact with our religious teachers and officers. It is of vital importance, and its fulfillment depends upon those who are privileged to obtain an understanding of its meaning.
