[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business (For April)
SEEDS AND PLANTS
IN this short lesson in amateur gardening we will not go into detail about the preparation of the soil as we presume it has been well dug, fertilized, and pulverized, as these simple preparations are very essential. We shall discuss the beauty and satisfaction of having borders of some of the best known and least expensive of all flowers.
Spring: To have an effective Spring border it is necessary to plant in the late summer or early fall. The prettiest one I have ever seen was made of a broad band of forget-me-nots in the close background, with double lemon tulips, "Murillo," in center and a broad strip of Arabis in front touching the lawn. The tulips and arabis will be good for years and the forget-me-nots will seed themselves year after year. Pansies are beautiful in place of the tulips and should be set out in September. Pansy seedlings may be purchased at your seedsman's before they have been transplanted into his cold frame at 1? cents each.
Summer: Summer borders are easily grown with a minimum of expense and labor. A great favorite is one made of French marigolds in the foreground, then a close bank of scarlet sage with the tall snow-on-the-mountain in the rear. The green foliage of all of these plants is as attractive as the flowers which are born in almost unbelievable profusion. No garden is complete without a row of golden gleam nasturtium. These flowers are double, fragrant, with long stems and are unsurpassed for picking. They bloom from July first to the time of killing frost. If you have a sunny walk in the back yard be sure to have a gorgeous bank of four-o'clocks on each side of it.
Early Fall: Zinnias and African marigolds make a bold, showy tall border and are at their best when planted alone with plenty of space.
All of these seeds are easy to germinate, easy to grow, and remain fresh and in bloom from late spring until late fall.
Perennial borders are a lasting joy, but it takes years to establish one that is really beautiful unless a great amount of money is invested.
Literature (For Third Week in April)
Lesson VII JULIA WARD HOWE
THERE is the sharpest possible contrast between the life of Lincoln and that of Julia Ward Howe, and very much of a contrast between her life and that of Alice Freeman Palmer. Julia Ward Howe had behind her wealth and station as well as gifts of both body and mind. Lincoln and Alice Freeman Palmer were richly endowed both mentally and spiritually. Julia Ward had as ancestors on
 
both sides the best blood that America had to offer. Her father, Samuel Ward, was a New York banker. Her mother, Julia Rush Cutler, who was married at sixteen, died at twenty-seven, having had seven children. Mr. Ward felt he could not longer live in the house where he and his wife had been so happy; so he moved to No. 16, Bond Street, which was out of the beaten path of the city. Mrs. Ward had asked that her sister should have the care of her children, so Aunt Eliza, who seems to have been a very cheerful person, came to the Ward home. Julia, who bore her mother's name, and was born May 27, 1819, was then a child.
"The amusements of the little Wards were few" we are told. As a child of seven Julia was taken twice to the opera, where she heard Malibran, then Signorina Garcia, a pleasure the memory of which remained with her through life. About this time Mr. Ward's views of religious duty deepened in stringency and in gloom. There was no more opera, nor did Julia ever attend a theatre until she was a grown woman."
When she was sixteen the family moved from No. 16
Bond Street, into a "statelier dwelling," on Bond Street and Broadway. This was the house Julia loved, the memory of which was dear to her throughout her life. She often recalled the spacious rooms hung with red, blue, and yellow silk. Behind the main house stretching along Broadway, was the picture gallery, the first private one in New York, which was said to be the father's "especial pride." "The children might not mingle in frivolous gayety abroad, but they should have all that love, taste, and money could give them at home."
Julia studied both vocal and instrumental music. With her music was a passion. Her music master, Signor Cardini, "trained and developed her inborn taste for all that was best in music." He also discovered that she had a good voice. It was a mezzo-soprano, "of uncommon range and exquisite quality."
She was always a student. She possessed a veritable gift for language. She is said to have known English, French, German and Italian. "She spoke and wrote them throughout her life correctly as well as fluently, with singularly pure accent and inflection. She was also proficient in history. She had no gift for mathematics, and used to say that her knowledge of the subject "was limited to the fact that four quarts make a gallon."
Julia's girlhood evenings were spent mostly at home, with books, needlework, and music, varied by an occasional lecture or concert, or a visit to some one of the uncles who lived nearby. But much as she loved her home, her books, and her music, she longed for some of the social life her three handsome brothers were enjoying. She wrote she seemed to herself "like a young damsel of olden times shut up within an enchanted castle," and for all her father's kindness, "noble generosity and overwhelming affection," as she puts it, he "sometimes appeared to me as my jailer."
She was now nineteen, a woman grown and feeling it. She had never had a party of her own, nor had she ever selected the people who were to come to the home for an evening. She grew rebellious and told her brothers that she was going to have a party. She asked them to help her make out lists, but said the responsibility was solely her own. She asked her father if she might invite a few friends on a certain evening, and he gave his consent.