[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony Lesson 7
Tue CuRIsT AS ORGANIZER OF A CHURCH Helpful References In the New Testament: Matthew 10; 16:18; 17:1-9; Mark 3:13- 19; Luke 6:12-16; Acts 1:12-26; 13:1; 14:23; John 1:35-50; Luke 10:1-24; Romans 12:4-5; I Corinthians 12:12-31; Ephesians 4: 11-12; Hebrews 5:1-5; I Timothy 3:1, 12; Revelation 1:6. In the Book of Mormon: 3
Nephi 11:18-27; 18:5; 19:4-7; 27:1-11; 4
Nephi 1-5; Moroni 2-6. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Secs. 7:1, 7-8; 10:69 (compare Matthew 16:18); 22:3; 84:107- 108. Talmage: The Articles of Faith, Chapter 11. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, pp. 361- 363, 368, 700-702, 736-738, 741- 42. Rall: The Teachings of Jesus, pp. 95-97, 1. Some Believe that Christ Did Not Organize a Church. To some Latter-day Saints the title of this lesson may seem rather trite and commonplace.
They may say, "Have we not been taught all our lives that the Christ organized the Church during His ministry and placed officers in it?' What they say would be true. But we hasten to point out that to many people outside our faith such a title would provoke great interest and surprise. It is, as a matter of fact, quite common to find in current publications statements by scholarly men to the effect that the Savior did not concern himself with organizing a church. One writer says, Ideally... The church is today, a fellowship or community of all who are trying to live as God's children after the spirit of Christ. If we ask for Jesus' teaching concerning this fellowship, we find we have scarcely anything bearing directly upon it. The Gospels give us nowhere any precept from Jesus as to the duty of organizing a church, or directions as to how this shall be done. Nor do the beginnings of the church at Jerusalem imply this. The disciples apparently still consider themselves a part of the Jewish Church, though they assemble themselves together, as would be expected, and look to the twelve for guidance and leadership." At the conclusion of his book, Jesus of Nazareth, Dr. Joseph Kiausner tries to answer the question, What is Jesus to the Jews? He says, "It is somewhat strange to ask, What is Jesus to the Jews? 'Jesus,' says Wellhausen, 'was not a Christian: he was a Jew,' and, as a Jew, his life-story is that of one of the prominent men of the Jews of his time, while his teaching is Jewish teaching of a kind remarkable in its truth and its imaginativeness. 'Jesus was not a Christian,' but he became a Christian. His teaching and his history have been severed from Israel. To this day the Jews have never accepted him.... But Jesus is, for the Jewish nation, a great teacher of morality and an artist in 116 parable. He is the moralist for whom, in the religious life, morality counts as?everything." Dr. Klausner, a Jew, is one of the most influential and celebrated Hebrew scholars of our day. No one can miss some of the implications in the statement quoted above. The Savior "became a Christian' not because he organized a Church, but because his teaching and his history were severed from its Jewish environment.
Such teaching about the Christ is important for Latter-day Saints to know. If we are to make the message of the Church very effective it becomes necessary for us to present the principles of the Gospel in a way that takes cognizance of the beliefs of others. 2. Our Church Organization gives Insight to the Organization in the Prinutive Church. If the Christ, during His lifetime, set up a Church, we should reasonably expect it to be of a pattern that would be in fundamentals, at least, the same for all time.
Local conditions might change, it is true, but a relatively perfect Church organization ought to provide for that. In other words, we should expect the Church on earth to be patterned in fundamentals after that in heaven.
Such we believe the Church organization in this dispensation to be. The pattern we have ought, then, to give us an insight into any similar organization set-up in the Savior's lifetime. Let us, therefore, look at some of the New Testament references that concern our problem. 3. Christ Aided by Distinct Bodies of Men. It will be noted that when the Christ's ministry actually began he saw the need of calling others to His side to help him. The tenth chapter of Matthew records their names and the charge He gave them.
In the first verse it is recorded that "he called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease." The word here translated as "power" is best rendered by "authority."
That better expresses the matter. One ought to read this chapter carefully. The charges given by the Christ to his apostles are not such as would be given by an ordinary leader to his followers.
They were given by one speaking with authority and not as the scribes. Why would such unusual charges be given if the Christ had only a fellowship with his apostles in mind and not a Church organization? The tenth chapter of Luke is also of peculiar significance. In the first verse of this chapter we read, "after these things the' Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face." The seventy are also mentioned in the seventeenth verse where, after their return, they rejoiced over their successful mission, and especially because of the authority which was theirs.
This group of seventy would seem to be a quorum of men distinct from the twelve apostles. In this dispensation the Lord has made it plain that there are in the Church among others, two distinct bodies of officers in the higher priesthood, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Quorum of Seventy. We should note, too, the special place Peter, James, and John held in the organization with which the Savior surrounded himself. In the seventeenth chapter of Matthew is the record of how they were in the presence of the Christ when he was transfigured, The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that on this occasion these three men received certain keys of authority. In LESSON DEPARTMENT the Epistle to the Galatians 2:9 two of them are spoken of as "pillars." The prominent role played by Peter, James, and John shortly after the Savior's resurrection would seemingly correspond with that displayed by the First Presidency in the Church today. It is necessary, however, to turn to literature in the New Testament other than the Gospels to see the Primitive Church organization in greater completeness.
Doubtless the pattern was given by the Christ during his ministry.
Some would object to this statement by saying that the Church organization portrayed in the Epistles reflects nothing more or less than the Apostle Paul's genius. Indeed, many conclude that Christianity is essentially "Pauline Christianitv."
