[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: In Paradise]

In Paradise. By Sophia Valentine.
LETTER FROM A SOLDIER BOY IN PARADISE TO HIS EARTHLY MOTHER.
"Paradise, where time has ceased."
My own beloved Mother:
I am permitted, this glorious day, to send you a message of cheer and joy, dear mother, and the angels will carry it to you some way. I am so anxious to convey a few words of comfort to you and dear father at this your hour of bereavement, for I perceive that you grieve very deeply and it distresses me. If you could see me, mother, just as I am now, you would dry your dear eyes and say, "it is well with my boy!" It is, mother. You think I'm dead; but not so, I never was more alive than at this time. There is no death. Mother, if you could think of some place where your boy would be under the most glorious environments; protected from all harm, sickness and pain; surrounded by the noblest and loftiest characters; learning each day some new and valuable lesson to fit him to become a worthy subject in the eternal city; only separated from you for a very short time, would you mourn? Then dry your eyes, mother mine, for that is exactly my condition now.
When I think of earth-life, with its disappointments, its strife, its crime, its toil and its mad rush after wealth, my heart swells with gratitude that I was permitted to leave it all in my youth, and come to this wonderful place. When I think of the day I left earth, ah, I must tell you something about that, my dearest mother, then you can contrast my present condition with that other and say where you would rather have me.
It seemed so terrible; it was like hell itself must be. I was not myself; it seemed to me I was someone else, rushing madly ahead, eager, anxious, wild to do my utmost for my country. My comrades were falling all around me, we stumbled over their dead bodies. It seems to me some demon took possession of me and spurred me on; I cared not what happened to me, only on, on to victory! The roar of the cannon, the deafening noise of bursting bombs, the shouts of command, hoarse and terrible; the groans and shrieks of the wounded and dying  I am thankful that you dear ones, in my earthly home, will never know the horror of it. Then all of a sudden the scene was changed. Something struck me, but I felt no pain, I only knew that I fell, and the boom
of the cannon and the terrible roar grew dimmer and sounded farther and farther away, and in its stead another sound, such a wondrous sound of the softest, sweetest music began to find its way to my senses. My first thought was that I must be dreaming and I tried to think where I had been when I fell asleep. I dared not open my eyes for fear that I might waken. And all the time the music came nearer and nearer. Then I lifted myself, it seemed to me, out of my body and stood erect, and my eyes were open and I gazed about me in astonishment. Someone was near me and spoke loving and comforting words to me, but I hardly listened for astonishment. Such a scene, such a landscape of beauty and peace, and nearer and nearer came the music. It seemed to me that I floated on wings, yet I had no wings and I felt like I wanted to burst out in song myself. Then the personage by my side took my hand and I turned to look at him and I knew without being told, that he was my guardian angel, and then for the first time I also knew that I must have died and that I was in the other world of which I used to think so often in my childhood. But I was not dead. I was alive. I could see and hear, think and act. Could this be death? Then how glorious was death!
All of a sudden I heard familiar voices, I was surrounded by beings, some of whom I had known in earth-life. First and foremost came dear grandmother, whom I had loved so and who loved me so much when I was a little boy; she was young looking and lovely and laughing and chatting with a man, and soon I discovered that he was like the portrait of grandfather that hung on the wall in grandmother's room, and who had died before I was born. Grandmother held out her arms to me, and I rushed right into them, and lay my head on her shoulder, just as I used to do. Such a calm and heavenly peace came over me, I wanted to cry for joy, but somehow the thought that I was a soldier came to me, and then grandfather came in for a share of caresses and he told me how proud he was of me. And all the time the glorious music was sounding, and flowers, such wonderful flowers were strewn on my path, and hundreds and thousands of happy, smiling personages were hovering about me. Hands were outstretched to press mine, and I was borne along with the happy, joyous throng. All the time I caught glimpses of my comrades who had come here before me, sometimes we came near enough to press each other's hands, and we looked into each other's faces, and continually was I borne onward, and it seemed that my heart was bursting with happiness.
I had forgotten all about you, my dear parents, and Lela, and everybody, till grandmother took my hand and began to inquire after you; then I remembered, and I saw your grief and it made me so sad, for why should you grieve for me? But grandfather

pressed my hand and said: "It will only be a little while and they will all be here, dear boy, and then they'll understand."
And then I saw  but no, I cannot describe it, words fail me. There came to my thoughts words I had heard in a Sunday School in my childhood: Eyes had not seen, ears had not heard, nor had it entered into the understanding of man  and then I knew, how true those words were.
Mother, dear, and father, if you could only know, if I were only able to portray to you the exquisitely finished beauty of everything here. Man in his wildest dreams, his most exalted thoughts of that which is sublime on earth, has but a faint idea of the beauty of heaven, and this is only Paradise, our place of waiting.
The only thing which has marred my happiness here, dear mother, is the regret of the lost opportunities of my earth-life, the hours, the days and months, spent in idle, useless, foolish pleasures, the remembrance of which would be like ashes in my mouth, were it not for the martyr's crown which is given to every hero, who gives his life for his country and its glorious cause. Glory in the fact, my mother, that your son is one of the brave who gave his life for America, still my America; grand and incomparable! I understand even now better than I did then how great is its aim, how wonderful its destiny. Its victory is sure, for God so decreed.
Mother, dear, do you remember how, as a child, I used to wonder what there could possibly be in heaven to while away the long, endless eternity? I have often thought the same after I grew up, when I thought of heaven at all; but now, do you know? it seems to me that eternity will not be long enough for me to learn all I have to learn, all I want to learn. All that which we dimly dream that we would love to accomplish on earth, all that is brought to its grandest perfection here by work and study. Earth-life is typical of life here, and to study in such surroundings  oh, it is wonderful!
And now, my dear mother, pray give my love to dear Lela, it is always hers. Tell her we shall meet again, and our Father will adjust everything to our entire satisfaction. And tell the dear sisters to be true and loyal women, to think less of their clothes, and more of their souls. And poor father, so worried with business cares  turn to him, my dear mother, and neglect him not for grieving over me, for he, too, is bowed in sorrow, though he mourns in silence for your sake, dearest. And my own brother John, so busy getting rich. Oh, tell him from me, mother, to rather lay up treasures here, it will avail him more.
And you, my beloved mother, who bore me in sorrow and
pain; who welcomed me so gladly when I came to earth; who watched over me so tenderly through all my childhood years, whose every heart-beat is for me and the dear ones, to you I want to give the last word of comfort and encouragement: I am not very far from you, mother, heaven is nearer you than you think, and grieve not that you cannot decorate my grave, the angels have charge concerning it, and they are ever scattering invisible flowers over the graves of the fallen heroes. And remember that every happy, hopeful smile of yours will be a flower of heavenly beauty on my resting place reaching up to my heavenly abode.
Forgive me, oh, mother, each unkind word I have said, and what I have caused you of sorrow and anxiety.
Farewell, dear mother. Take heart! Look up and be comforted!
Through all eternity, your own loving son.