[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL
. Motto  Charity Never Faileth

Vol. V. DECEMBER, 1918. No. 12.
"LITTLE CHILDREN, LOVE ONE ANOTHER."
For five years the editor of the Magazine has talked to the readers behind a barricade of "we," and "our." I want to speak to you this Christmas time without any barrier of indirectness; for I want to tell you all, my readers, and those who do not read this page, but who love and work for Zion: I love you, I love you all. And O, how ardently I pray for you. You heavily burdened stake boards and ward officers, you faithful teachers, and you gentle, kindly women who gather into our Relief Society meetings weekly. My heart goes out to you every one; I see you working late, arising early, hurrying, hurrying over each task, now multiplied by our righteous war's demands, but always so anxious to do your part, so conscientious to fulfill your last and latest call and obligation. O, how I love you for it! And how our Father in heaven loves you! Surely never on this earth lived finer, nobler, sweeter women than you all are. My sisters  my dear companions, and sisters in Christ!
And then, my thoughts turn inward, and I say to my stumbling, heavily-burdened self  what are you doing, how are you meeting the responsibilities placed upon you  how are you facing this concourse of loving-hearted women-readers month by month? And O, do they love you? I hope so; I pray you, dear, noble sisters, and readers, try to love me and be patient with my
mistakes, kind to my faults, and let us love and serve each other truly. This, as I conceive it, is the throbbing heart of Christ's message to us all. And when the day breaks or the night shadows close around my evening pillow, and I think of my dear Savior, as He lay upon his mother's breast like my sons have rested on my bosom, I say to Him fondly, I love you, my Savior and my Friend. As lisping child, I love You. So must I love all lisping babes for Your dear sake. I love You working to bring mankind to learn obedience to law, yet pitying us all who cannot quite reach up to Thy perfection. And in that love for You, my soul thrills and my eyes fill with fond tears for these dear women, sisters and associates in the Relief Society, for we have all named Thy name, and we are Thy daughters.
This is my only Christmas gift, sisters, my love and prayers for you, and I lay it humbly on the altar of your forgiving companionship.
BURIAL CLOTHES.
The General Board of the Relief Society organized, several years ago, a Burial Clothes Department, under the sanction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church. Recently the old offices were vacated, when the Presidency moved into the new building, and were turned over to the Burial Clothes Department. We hope our sisters will continue to build up, through their patronage and encouragement, this splendid enterprise. It is in charge of Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Counselor to Pres. E. B. Wells. She and her committee have already a complete stock of the most beautiful and delicately-fashioned burial clothes possible for anyone of human skill to prepare. All grades of clothing are here shown, from the best to the cheapest. No individual makes any profit out of the work done in the department. Those who engage in the actual labor are paid a modest wage, but whatever profits accrue belong to the Society itself, so that the sisters patronizing this department are building up the Society, and not enriching individual undertaking firms. The committee have not raised their prices in spite of the tremendous raise in every other direction which the War has necessitated. The clothes may be ordered by mail or otherwise. Address: Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Bee Hive House, Salt Lake City, Utah.