[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: OLD AGE. | Author: Unknown]

OLD AGE.

Fling down the faded blossoms of the spring,
	Nor clasp the roses with regretful hand;
The joy of summer is a vanished thing;
	Let it depart, and learn to understand
The gladness of great calm—the autumn rest,
The Peace—of human joys the latest and the best.

Ah! I remember how in early days
	The primrose and the wild-flower grew beside
My tangled forest paths, whose devious ways
	Filled me with joys of mysteries untried,
And terror that was more than half delight,
And sense of budding life, and longings infinite.

And I remember how, in Life’s hot noon,
	Around my path the lavish roses shed
Color and fragrance, and the air of June
	Breathed rapture—now those summer days are
	fled;
Days of sweet peril, when the serpent lay
Lurking at every turn of life’s enchanted way.

The light of spring, the summer’s glow, are o’er,
	And I rejoice in knowing that for me
The woodbine and the roses bloom no more,
	The tender green is gone from field and tree;
Brown, barren sprays stand clear against the blue,
And leaves fall fast and let the truthful sunlight
	through.

For me the hooded herbs of autumn grow,
	Square-stemmed and sober; mint and sage, 
Horehound and balm—such plants as healers.
	know;
	And the decline of life’s long pilgrimage
Is soft and sweet with marjoram and thyme,
Bright with pure evening dew, not serpents’ glitter-
	ing slime.

And round my path the aromatic air
	Breathes health and perfume, and the turfy
		ground
Is soft for weary feet, and smooth and fair 
	With little thornless blossoms that abound
In safe, dry places, where the mountain side
Lies to the setting sun, and no ill beast can hide.

What is there to regret ? Why should I mourn
	To leave the forest and the marsh behind,
Or towards the rank, low meadows sadly turn ? 
	Since here another loveliness I find,
Safer and not less beautiful—and blest
	With glimpses, faint and far, of the long wished-
		for Rest.

And so I drop the roses from my hand,
	And let fhe thorn-pricks heal, and take my way
Down hill, across a fair and peaceful land
	Lapt in the golden calm of dying day—
Glad that the night is near, and glad to know
That rough or smooth the way, I have not far to
	go.


[Column 1]
