Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, October 1 and October 15, 1884. "Tur RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A Happy Affair: On Tuesday, September 30, Miss Martha J. Horne was united in marriage to Elder Joseph S. Tingey; both of this city. Miss Horne was one of the first girls who learned type setting here, and set type for the Exponent from its first issue. She made herself very proficient in the art of type setting, and could compete with any of the men in the office in this respect.... She is the daughter of Elder Joseph and M. Isabella Horne, both widely and favorably known among the Latter-day Saints. The bridegroom is the son of Bishop Tingey of the 17th Ward; he is a typo in the Deseret News Office, and is a young man in every way likely to make a good husband.... Editorial: Visit to the Country?In company with Sister Eliza R. S. Smith we left the city on the southern railway train Thursday morning, September 11th. At Provo Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow joined our party. At Nephi we stopped long enough to dine with Sister Pitchfork, then took Sanpete Valley Railway for Fountain Green, where we were most hospitably welcomed and entertained at Bishop Johnson's. Friday morning at ten o'clock the Relief Society Conference of that stake convened in the new brick meeting house, Sister M. A. Hyde presiding.... Sister Eliza R. S. Smith spoke on the growth of infidelity, its causes, and the necessity of the young being instructed in the principles of the Gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit to preserve them from evil influences and as a safeguard against temptation and doubt. Referred particularly to government and discipline in the training of children and to the correct cultivation of the conscience; thought mothers should have the highest and best possible education.... Home Affairs: A new book of nearly 600 pages and handsomely bound, recently published by the Deseret News Company is entitled "Biography, Autobiography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow." This book is from the gifted pen of Eliza R. S. Smith, sister of the Apostle whose record she has so ably written.... The Deseret Hospital: About the middle of July the Deseret Hospital which had been previously situated in the Twelfth Ward of this city, was removed to a building in the Seventeenth Ward, for several years occupied by and known as the Deseret University Building... Standing at the corner of 2nd West and 1st North Sts. The President of the Hospital, Bishop H. B. Clawson, visits the institution himself every day and leaves no means, in his power untried to promote its best interests. The Board of Directors... Meet regularly for the transaction of business... There is a competent resident surgeon in the house... There is also a steward and matron, with competent nurses and other helps... Morning and evening prayers are regularly attended to.. On Sunday, meetings are held in the large reception room, and the sacrament administered to all in the house who are members of the Church. These meetings are under the direct supervision of the Bishop of the Ward.... Zee 2 & Relief Society Fair At Coalville: On the 7th of August and the three following days, a ladies' fair was held in the Relief Society's store, Coalville, under the management of the Relief, Young Ladies and Primary Associations of Summit Stake. The proceeds thereof to be used for the purpose of purchasing glass for the new stake meeting house now in course of erection at Coalville.... Page 568 Woman?s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DNA. REINDEL, American painter of still life and flower pictures, has been called "an intellectual poet," combining in her art descriptive realism and a_ lovely lyrical feeling. MARGARET WOODROW WILSON, daughter of President Wilson, has died in India, a devotee of East Indian philosophy. AN intelligent advocate of recognition of woman's equality with man in economic, political, and social fields was Miss Alice Lovina Manning of Salt Lake City, who recently passed away. She was the fourth woman admitted to the practice of law in Utah, was legislative chairman of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, and was in the law department of the Union Pacific Railroad. AFTER organizing successful national campaigns to persuade women to take war jobs, the head of the magazine bureau of the O. W. I. Resigned because of lack of proper conditions for caring for her two young children. She believes that the lack of community co-operation in arranging for the proper care of children of war-working mothers. Is a menace to all war industries. ELOISE S. THETFORD is coauthor with S. H. Kraines, M. D., of a highly recommended book on psychology, Managing Your Mind. Its thesis is that our emotional states determine as well as reflect the well-being of our bodies. Two other noteworthy books are: Yankee from Olympus; Justice Holmes and His Family by Catherine Drinker Bowen, and Carrie Chapman Catt, a biography by Mary Gray Peck. Mrs. Catt was associated with national woman's suffrage, the International Suffrage Alliance, and was noted for her work in determining the cause and cure of war. THE march of progress among Latin-American women is noteworthy. Among students from the other Americas studying in our colleges on scholarships, many are young women. Ten years ago Chili had eight students here; she now has 118. Colombia had twenty-three as against 204 now. The Federation of Women's Clubs in the United States is now sponsoring fourteen scholarships for Latin American girls to study here, ranging from board and room to $1200 each. Page 569 EDITORIAL 2 NO. 10 Home, After She War SSS HE three words "after the wat' have seemed for a long time to be merely wishful thinking, but now, when the end of the wat in Europe, at least, does seem in sight, it is time to plan for the home in the postwar of the most pressing situations to be faced will be the re turn of thousands of mothers to the home as the war work in which many of them have engaged will cease. The question of women remaining in the home to personally care for their children, or hiring someone else to care for them, or leaving them to improper or no supervision at all, is a problem which is plaguing the entire Nation. Theres no hard and fast rule which can be laid down in this regard, each case deserves serious consideration on its own merits as to the right and wrong of the reason which causes a mother to absent herself from the home?reasons which range from the situation arising from the death or injury of the husband, to the mother who wishes to help out with the family finances, and so on down the scale until one reaches the mother who, tiring of her domestic duties, simply walks out on her family. It is not the present intention to enter into a justification or condemnation of the mother who leaves the Page 570 home, but merely to point out the fact that the great majority, it ls hoped, of the men will be coming back; war industries will cease; and the returning members of the armed forces must be given the opportunity to once more earn livelihoods for themselves and their families. When this situation arises, the mother who has left her home should be prepared to face the situation and accept it. She may find that she can slip back into her place in the family with no friction, on the other hand she may find her children resentful of the closer surveillance to which they will be subjected. The mother who has worked night shift and whose adolescent children have been allowed to do much as they wished, may find her problem the most acute, if, indeed, heartbreaking situations do not already exist. The Latter-day Saint mother has been taught that parents shall "teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." In November 1831 (in a. Day when the mother was in the home) the Lord said: Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, VOL 31 OCTOBER 1944 EDITORIAL but their eyes are full of greediness" (Doctrine and Covenants 68:31). Have the eyes of some in this day been so full of greediness that mothers have put in jeopardy the very souls of their children? If any mother feels the pricks of conscience over the behavior of her children, let her but the more eagerly, earnestly, and prayerfully reassume her duties. History teaches that a period of 571 lawlessness and excess follows after a war. As the industrial need for mothers decreases, the need of the mother, as such, will steadily increase. Where it is at all possible for the mother who may have left her home to return, she should eagerly accept the opportunity, and rededicate herself to carry on those duties, given her by the Lord, for which she is and will be held responsible. M.C.S. "