As a Grain of Mustard Seed A Short Story Based on an Incident in the Life of a Convert of 1842 Leslie L. Sudweeks 582-583 As a Grain of Mustard Seed
A Short Story Based on an Incident in the Life of a Convert of 1842
Leslie L. Sudweeks
THE warm October sun was sinking low in the west that autumn day in 1835, as the old-fashioned surrey rounded a turn in the road, and the three occupants came in sight of the little hamlet nestling at the foot of Bear Mountain.
"Well, here we are almost home," said Joel Drury cheerfully, reining in his span of bay mares. "Tired, Permelia?"
The girl stirred haltingly, her large deep blue eyes and framed with a mist of curly black hair. Her delicate girlish figure was graceful in spite of the crutches which she kept near her on the seat.
Before supper was over there came a timid knock on the door, and in came Emma Woodward, Permelia's best friend, to hear all about the trip to the city and to spend the night.
As the years passed, Permelia Drury blossomed into young womanhood. Her cheerful acceptance of her lot, and her activity, in spite of her handicap, were marveled at by the little community of Wendell. Many happy hours were spent in company with her friend Emma,
did not uncover her eyes. The monotonous rattle of the carriage wheels seemed to echo over and over again the doctor's words: "I am sorry, Mrs. Drury, but medical science can do nothing for your daughter. Hip disease is incurable."
It was dark when the surrey finally pulled up at the little Massachusetts farmhouse that the Drury's called home. Sister Ruth had a candle burning in the window and a hot supper ready, while Brother Charles was just coming in from the milking.
The welcome warmth of the living room fire rapidly dispelled the gloom and disappointment which had settled over Permelia Drury. The lines around her mouth softened, revealing a lovely face set with girl of perhaps thirteen or fourteen, one arm encircling a pair of crutches. "Poor child, it was a great disappointment to her that the doctors in Boston could do nothing."
"Yes, poor dear," answered Thirza Drury softly. "It's so sad to know that she must go through life a cripple. Hip disease is such a tragic thing. But our daughter is brave, Joel, she will make the best of it."
Then, turning toward the huddled figure on the back seat of the surrey, she raised her voice slightly: "Look, Permelia. Wake up, dear! We are almost home."
The girl stirred haltingly, murmuring an incoherent, "Uh-huh," but
Page 582

AS A GRAIN OF MUSTARD SEED
sometimes at the Woodward farm and sometimes at the Drury's.
When Emma was finally sent away to Boston to a girls' finishing school, Permelia was very lonely. However, during the winter of 1841-42 this loneliness was partially offset by a new interest. Two missionaries had arrived from Nauvoo, preaching a strange, new religion called Mormonism.
The Woodwards and the Drurys were sturdy folk who were not accustomed to accepting new religious theories, yet there was something strangely appealing in the story of the modern prophet who had translated a book from an ancient record of golden plates, whose hiding place in the ground had been revealed by an angel. It seemed too incredible to be true, and yet the story was disconcerting.
The strange new book, purporting to give the record of God's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of America, was weird at first seriously; later with the conviction that it must be the truth. The Woodwards finally sent for Emma to come home from Boston to hear this strange new doctrine, and Permelia was overjoyed at the prospect of discussing the teachings of Mormonism with her friend.
ON the afternoon of February 28, two elders busied themselves in throwing up a dam across the brook that meandered through the Woodward farm, in order to form a pond for the baptism on the morrow.
Permelia came over early to watch the work and to spend the night at the Woodwards. The two
strange new gospel they had both decided to embrace.
"Surely," said Permelia, "the Lord has again spoken from the heavens as was prophesied by John the Revelator."
"I am convinced of it," replied Emma thoughtfully. "Do you remember the incident related by the missionaries last Sunday, how in the early days at Nauvoo when many of the saints were stricken with malaria, Joseph Smith went among them healing the sick? Even Brother Elijah Fordham, who was thought to be breathing his last, was raised from his bed and immediately made whole."
"Yes," said Permelia, "and then Wilford Woodruff healed two children who were non-members by merely wiping their faces with the handkerchief of the Prophet. Truly this must be the Lord's work, for Jesus said, 'If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible to you.'"
The morrow dawned clear and bright. As the two girls dressed and ate their breakfast, they were thrilled with anticipation of the coming event. At ten o'clock a little group of perhaps twenty converts and friends assembled at the appointed place on the Woodward farm.
The dam which had been built across the brook the previous day had backed the water up into a fairsized pond, perhaps three feet deep, which was now covered by a thin coating of ice. After a brief service on the low bank, the officiating elder 584 waded into the pond, broke up the ice, and threw it out on the bank. When Permelia?s name was called, she hobbled over to the edge of the pond, handed her crutches to Emma, and was carried down into the water in the strong arms of the officiating elder. The sudden shock of the icy water made her gasp. She stifled the impulse to scream, and in a few seconds began to feel warmer. The officiating elder raised his right arm and uttered a short, simple prayer. Then she felt herself tipped swiftly backward. As the icy waters closed over her head, she thought of that event 1800 years before when Jesus of Nazareth set the example by being baptized of John in the River Jordan. As Permelia Drury came up out of the water, she no longer felt the cold, and a strange sense of power surged through her body. Brushing aside the friendly arms extended to assist her, she walked out upon the bank unaided, exclaiming as she did so, "Oh, Emma, I can walk! I can walk!" There was great rejoicing among the little group of converts over the miracle which they had witnessed. The incident created a sensation in the community. Pressed for an explanation, the doctors attributed the healing to the shock of the icy water, and when asked why they did not apply the same treatment, merely shrugged and said they were afraid it might prove fatal. In the following years, Permelia Drury married Laban Morrill, migrated to Utah with a pioneer company, and raised a family of nine children, but never again resorted to her crutches. Forward, Without Fear (Continued from page 577) jail. Kill all of us, but you won't _ Do you heat me? We are them, hurried away, then he turned to Ann Kristin. "As for you, I'll get even with you if it takes the rest of my life." "Phew!" Patty Lou whistled ?We sure are fanning us Up a breeze." Then unexpectedly, she dropped to the ground and burst into wild sobbing. "Everybody's gone. Papa's gone, and Jake and now him." As if her sobs were a signal, the storm that had been threatening burst upon them. Lightning cut the deepening gloom. Sudden violent rain pelted them, carrying a chilling omen of what was to come. Ann Kristin's throbbing arm was forgot: ten in the deeper throbbing of pain in her heart. Was there no peace anywhere? (To be continued )