[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | April | Issue: 17 | Title: IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE, | Author: LYDIA D. ALDER]

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE,
of
LITTLE MARGARET.
(Dedicated to my children George and Dean.)

O happy singing little voice
	Forever stilled in earthly home;
The restless, pattering, eager feet
	O’er its portals now have gone,
To never more return again
	Till Christ the Lotd is come.

The thoughtful, lustrous eyes of brown,
	Are closed away from scenes of earth;
The dainty form is laid so low,
	Where ne’er is heard the sound of mirth;
But waits the call of Christ the Lord
	When He shall come to earth.

O, loved ones do not mourn as those
	Who never heard the Gospel sound;
Your precious darling has passed through,
	The “Golden Gates” to Heaven bound;
Where those have gone who love her well—
	And flowers immortal she has found.

Earthly flowers are born to fade,
	To fall to dust and pass away;
But Love will last beyond the grave, 
	More glorious grow and ne’er decay.
For Christ, the Lord, shall come and say,
	“Arise! It is the Resurrection Day.”

Then perfect love our eyes will see,
	Nor fear, nor blight will make us sigh;
For now all griefs have passed away,
	The Saviour wipes each streaming eye;
And low He speaks to every heart,
	“Fear not, for here the loved ones never die.”

O, Land Immortal, where flowers bloom,
	That never fade, by the North wind’s breath;
Where parted loved ones meet again,
	To never more be rent by Death;
Where is thy bounds, where thy rising towers, 
	Where thy babbling brooks, where thy rosy
		bowers?

Be still fond hearts! Ye tears be still!
	The Lord thy God, still cares for thee;
O, wait in patience for the day
	When you shall His salvation see;
The beauteous Land will come in sight,
	And life and love eternal be.

“Good-bye” sweet Margaret, for a little while,
	The flowers you love, now bloom for aye;
Keep some for Mama and Papa too,  
	That you gather through the golden day;
And bring them down to the now dim shore, 
	When they too, pass over ‘The Way.”
							LYDIA D. ALDER.
Feb. 14, 1895.


[Column 1]
