[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | April | Issue: 17 | Title: SUFFRAGE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

SUFFRAGE.

	A CALL for a convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association was issued
about the middle of March and telegrams
and letters sent out to notify those living at
a distance from headquarters who would
wish to attend, and on the 18th of March
the Utah Territorial W. S. A. held a con-
vention in the Probate Court room of the
City and County building. Delegates were
present from several counties and the
Territorial President was elected chairman
of the meeting, the vice-presidents were
Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Nellie M. Little, Secretary
and Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Assistant
Secretary, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Chap-
lain. After Mrs. Young had offered prayer
and the call had been read, Mrs. Richards
moved that the president appoint a com-
mittee on Memorial to draft a suitable docu-
ment to present to the Constitutional Con-
vention then in session. The President
Mrs. Wells appointed Mrs. Richards Chair-
man. Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs. G. S.
Carlton, Mrs. J. S. Gilmer, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Amelia F. Young,
Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. C. E. Allen,
Mrs. Emma McVicker, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs J. D. Pardee
Mrs. E. H. Parsons. The committee re-
tired five minutes, and while they were out
speeches were made by county presidents
or their representatives; Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson Salt Lake County, Lucy A. Clark
Farmington who read an original paper on
the subject, displaying a great deal of talent
and clearly setting forth her arguments.
Mrs. Hannah Lapish, American Fork,
Mrs. Jennie Nelson, Ogden, Mrs. M. A.
Grover, Nephi, Mrs. Celia E. Bean, Rich-
field, Mrs. Alvira L. Cox, Manti, repre-
sented counties. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne a
veteran pioneer and mother in Israel spoke
briefly, Mrs. Jane S. Richards of Ogden
an Honorary Vice-President of the National
American W. S. A. also made a few for-
cible remarks, also Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Mrs. Kate Hilliard of Ogden, and Mrs.
Joanna Melton of this city, Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers, Farmington, and Mrs. Ellen S.
Clawson Salt Lake and perhaps one or two
more. The committee returned, the chair-
man read the memorial, which on motion
was adopted and signed and no other
business being presented the convention
adjourned sine die.
	In the afternoon many of the ladies went
into the hall where the Constitutional Con-
vention was in session. Hon. F. S. Rich-
ards a member of the Convention presented
the memorial, it was read by the Secre-
tary and referred to the committee on
Elections and Suffrage.
TO THE HONORABLE PRESIDENT AND MEM-
BERS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL CON-
VENTION OF UTAH:
	WE your petitioners and memoralists,
representing the great majority of the wo-
men of Utah, and more particularly as the

[Column 2]
official representatives of the great women
organizations of Utah, numbering in ag-
gregate membership over 35,000, viz.
	The Utah Suffrage Association auxiliary to
the National American Woman’s Suffrage
Association, the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association; these
thousands of women standing in a general
way, or in virtue of direct official relation-
ship, as our constituents, we, your mem-
orialists speak in their names and in be-
half of the women of Utah herewith pre-
sent the woman’s cause.
	It is a matter of congratulation that in
these closing years of the nineteenth cen-
tury the cause of woman can, without the
stigma of partisanship, be laid before a
body of chosen men ordained to the work
of creating a new sovereignty within the
galaxy of states as an equal member of the
indissoluble Union. The men of Utah, in
their respective political parties, have with
equal unanimity, said that women shall be
accorded equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, that sex distinction shall no
longer be a ban and a bar to equal oppor-
tunity with men to exercise the God-given
powers and capabilities with which women
are endowed for purposes of equal self-
government and equal enjoyment of the
inalienable rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness. We take it that the
men of Utah have spoken honestly,
sincerely and conscientiously as true men to
that equally large number of citizens who
are now disfranchised, who are now de-
prived of authority to speak a word or cast
a vote in the framing of an organic law
which determines their personal and prop-
erty rights, their civil and political status
in the social organism.
	We are glad to feel assured that our
brothers are dealing honestly and
righteously with us, and that they will or-
dain truth and justice in the name of God
and humanity. And we are happy, too, in
the belief that these overtures made by the
men of Utah are in line with the onward
march of civilization, that the bow of
promise is rising higher and brighter in the
heaven of human hope, that with the ele-
vation and emancipation of women "the
plans of God are ripening with the process
of the suns." And we say to you that we
contemplate no rival sovereignty, no sphere
peculiar and apart, no conflicting regime or
antagonistic legislation, no hostile policy or
divided counsels. No, the woman move-
ment means only true human progress. It
means higher and truer harmony, more
genuine and enlightened fellowship, more
real co-operation. more vital and perpetual
union. The key and clue to all true pro-
gress is the larger harmony that the Infinite
Spirit is breathing into the rising grandeur
of human development.
	As Constitution makers, as framers of
the chart that shall guide us in what we
hope to be a long and prosperous future,
you will cherish in your deliberations a
sacred regard for the principles of liberty,
for those undying axioms that have been
laid at the foundations of our Temple of


[Column 1]
Freedom. We have thousands of women
in Utah who are property holders and tax-
payers in their own right. Probably no
other state furnishes as large a roll of tax-
paying women. “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.” This was the key-
note, the bugle call of the revolutionary
fathers in their struggle for liberty. Says
James Otis, in 1764, in one of the pamph-
lets that made our independence, “The
very act of taxing, exercised over those
who are not represented, appears to me to
be depriving them of one of their most es-
sential rights. For what one civil right is
worth a rush after a man’s property is 
subject to be taken from him at pleasure,
without his consent. If a man is not his
own assessor, in person or by deputy, his 
liberty is gone.” Hon. Charles Sumner,
in his speech on March 7, 1866, endorses
these declarations of James Otis, and he
says “Stronger words for universal suffrage
could not be employed.” His argument
is that if men are taxed without being rep-
resented, they are deprived of essential
rights.
	These axioms are as clear as sunlight,
and it would be in violation of the funda-
mental principles of our institutions for the
men of Utah to frame laws whereby wo-
men property holders shall be taxed with-
out their consent given through such
representation as is accorded to men as a 
condition precedent to their being taxed.
	Again, all our constitutions, either in
terms or in substance, commence their
preamble with that comprehensive formula,
“We, the people.” Our government is
“of the people, for the people and by the
people.” Whatever the status of women
may be, they are at least a part of the
people. As such the government provides
a place for them, and by no form or prin-
ciple of reasoning can they be deprived of
such rights and privileges as inure to men
under government, without at the same time
destroying the natural rights which men
hold for themselves to be inviolate.
	Furthermore, by the Declaration of In-
dependence, the existence of government
hinges upon “the consent of the governed.”
This consent is to be given through the 
forms and provisions whereby govern-
ments are made and administered. This
consent goes to the framing of the constitu-
tion, to the enactment of laws under that
constitution and to the administration of
those laws; and there can be no consent
without representation. Hence the dis-
franchisement of half the people and a 
large proportion of taxpayers and creators
of wealth is tyranny pure and simple, even
though it be under the shadow and in the 
name of liberty and free government.
	But we seek not to weary you with the
recital of axioms. What we desire is that
we may uphold your hands in revealing
them to the world and making them effec-
tive in human government. Jefferson laid 
a deep foundation for human freedom in
planting equal rights at the roots of the tree
of liberty; but it was given to Lincoln to
make those principles most effective, and to
cause them to shine as the noonday sun in
the firmament of American history.
	He said: “I believe the day is not far
distant when women will wield the ballot
to purify and ennoble polotics. I go for
all sharing in the government who assist in
bearing its burdens, by no means excluding
the females.”
	To you, gentlemen of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, it is given to make other

[Column 2]
deep and fundamental principles of our
government effective in the administrations
of law. We do not doubt your ability and 
willingness to do so. But we come to greet
you in behalf of the women of Utah, to 
strengthen your hand and to assure you
that we are keenly alive to the importance
and far reaching consequences of your labor
in our behalf.
	“And above all we would impress you
with the fact that the women of Utah are
by no means indifferent spectators of the
drama that is now being enacted. We be-
lieve that every age has its rising and its
setting sun. We believe that the woman
movement has come because the sun of our
civilization has thrown across our social 
horizon the dawning of a new and more
glorious era in the history of man. We
believe that “through the ages an eternal
purpose runs,” and that in the full enfran-
chisement of women there will come a 
larger and truer sovereignty, a national con-
scientiousness in fuller harmony with the 
temporal welfare and happiness of man.
We believe that both men and women will
be benefitted morally, socially and econom-
ically. We believe that now the time clock
of American destiny has struck the hour to
inaugurate a larger and truer civil life, and
that the future writers of Utah history will
immortalize the names of those men who,
in this Constitutional Convention, defying
the injustice and prejudice of the past,
strike off the bonds that have heretofore
enthralled woman, and open the doors that
will usher her into free and full emancipa-
tion.
	“We therefore ask you to provide in the
Constitution that the rights of citizens of
the State of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex, and that male and female citizens
of the State shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.”
	The memorial was signed by the follow-
ing ladies: Emmeline B. Wells, president
of the Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah; Emily S. Richards, vice president;
Zina D. H. Young, president of the 
National Woman’s Relief Society; Jane S.
Richards, vice president; Ellen B. Fergu-
son, Salt Lake County Suffrage Association;
Electa Bullock, Utah County Lucy 
A. Clark Davis and Jennie Nelson, Weber
County; Celia E. Bean, Sevier County
Alvira L. Cox, Sanpete Co., M. A. Grover,
Juab County; and many others.
	At ten o’clook the morning of the 19th,
a hearing was given to the ladies’ who had
been invited to speak before the Committee
who had the memorial in charge. Hon. J.
F. Chidester Chairman of the Committee,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball introduced the
speakers with a few preliminary remarks.
Mrs. F. S. Richards read a carefully pre-
pared and logical paper, Mrs. Carlton now
of Wyoming formerly of Utah told in a 
very interesting manner of the practical 
work of the franchise in that state, Dr. M.
Hughes Cannon read an able paper, every
word of which was telling, the subject being
whether women would be more susceptible
to priestcraft than men. Mrs. Joanna
Melton spoke very forcibly illustrating her
remarks in a very original way. Mrs. A.
S. Pardee followed with some bright
thoughts in expressive language and read
a few paragraphs from the Arena for Febru-
ary clinching her arguments in good
style. Dr. R. B. Pratt read a paper giving
her view and embellishing beautifully the

[Column 3]
facts she presented. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
last on the list and spoke to the question
without notes, or references. A few minutes
being left Mrs. Zina D. H. Young was in-
vited and made a few remarks upon wo-
man’s place in the world, and Mrs. Jane S.
Richards of Ogden being urged to speak
came forward with a few pertinent words,
this closed the hearing before the Com-
mittee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


