THEOLOGY Dr. George H. Brimhall ~ I am to talk to you today on the theme of theology. I have a little map here of preceedure, under the head of aims, appliances and activities. What are the aims of these theological lessons given by this association or society? I take it that the lesson given from the highest point of vision has two objects—major objects. One of these objects or aims is the giving of information, and the other is the stimulating of inquiry. If a lecture or a 
 lesson does not go over and reach these two objects, I think it has failed. If a man speaks and: does not do any more than inform people, he is a teller, and not a teacher. But if he arouses an interest in further inquiry he is a teacher. So the second great aim is the stimulating of the spirit of inquiry. We have about four ways of growing in intelligence. The child begins with his lips—he is an investigator; the second way of learning is by imitation—through example. The child learns to walk, not by being told to walk; he learns to talk, not by instruction, but by imitation entirely. Experiments have been performed with children who have been put away on islands and they learned to imitate the birds and the winds, but they did not learn to talk. So then the second avenue of intellectual growth is through imitation. Then we come to the third, which is the avenue of instruction—they are told either by mouth or by printed word. Then we come to the final method of intellectual growth, and development, which is through thinking. I asked a class yesterday (to illustrate between being taught and thinking) which was first in the Church, the restoration ot the Priesthood or the organization of the Church. There was a boy there who raised his hand instantly, and answered that the restoration of the Priesthood was first. I asked how he knew. He said, "I know because our history says the Priesthood was restored in 1829 and the Church was organized in 1830." That was instruction he had received. But there was a girl in the class who raised her hand and said, "He is right. I know because they had to have authority before they could organize the Church." She did not remember the dates; but she knew the answer through her thinking. That is an illustration of getting information through thinking. I asked a class what the Lord made of Joseph Smith before he made a seer of him. Well, several hands were up. A group of girls had their hands up and one of them replied that he made a good, obedient boy of him first. Another answer was that he made a student of him, before he made a seer of him. I asked for proof and they gave it to me. There was no question about that. Joseph Smith's teaching began with James when Joseph Smith read his words in the Bible, and so it went on, and the theological scholar preceded the seer. Scholarship, based on study preceded revelation. J am emphasizing this point because I would like to have you feel the importance of study. It has been the aim of these lessons, so far as I know, to instruct, give information, and stimulate inquiry—and the stimulation of inquiry is not of secondary importance. The great big aim of all the Church education is the making of Latter-day Saints. What is it to be a Latter-day Saint? It is to have all the information concerning our Father in heaven and his work—to have as broad and as wide a knowledge of the word of God as our circumstances will permit. At this stage of the game it means to have a clear, instructive knowledge of the workings of God and the ability to think about those things. The yreat problem—the biggest question we have in the Church school system right now is, can we have thinking believers? I will give you an illustration. A boy discovered to his chagrin—he was heart-broken to discover who Santa Claus was. So he said, "That is the end of Santa Claus. I am going to investigate this Jesus story." Children are inquisitive and investigative. They demand the right to think. A boy comes up and says, "We have been reading about the time when this earth is going to become as a sea of glass. I hope I won't be here—I don't want to live on such a slippery thing. Where are your forests, your fish ponds, your hunting grounds, your parks, where is all the beauty of the world?" 'The teacher says, ""What is the difference between a piece of glass and a cloud, John?" He answers, "You can see through the piece of glass and you can't see through the cloud." "Now, John, suppose we learn all there is in the earth. Did you ever see an X-ray picture?" He tells him about the X-ray and the boy reads about the discoveries that have been made, that it is possible to see through foot after foot of solid wall. "When we discover all there is in the earth, John, what will the earth be to us?" The teacher can slip in a little thought and suggest how marvelous it was that that man away off on the Isle of Patmos could tell of the future condition of the earth, since he knew nothing about the X-ray, nothing about the engineering of today, and could forecast this condition and foresee the earth becoming as a sea of glass. 1 So we endeavor in these theology lessons to give you information and to stimulate inquiry, and to arouse in you and the students in your ward classes, the spirit of thé student. It is pleasing to God to have people study. You read the Doctrine and Covenants and you will find as you go along that almost all of the important revelations have been preceded by an inquiry in the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, and others. They went to the Lord with an attitude of inquiry. We come next to the question of appliances. There are things you need for this theological work. You need a Bible. You need a Book of Mormon. You need a Doctrine and Covenants. You need a Pearl of Great Price. These are the four great fundamentals. But you will need something else. What kind of a Bible does a student need?: A student needs a concordance Bible—a Bible with a concordance in it. I am amazed beyond expression at the reluctance with which people will spend a little money for a book. You will find people with the newest sweeper and the most up-to-date appliances, with a 50c Bible in 
 their homes. We need a Doctrine and Covenants with a concordance in it, and a Book of Mormon with a concordance in it. There should be within the reach of every ward association the concordance of the Book of Mormon. See how it saves time. We put out a question. I have answered a letter or two about it. The question was, Who was the one woman in the Bible that was called great? Some of you wrote about it but I suppose the most of you found it. There is that word, "great." Go to the conconcordance. It will point you to every place in the Bible where the word "great" is, and that word will point you to the woman that was called great, and you can turn immediately to chapter and verse. Who was she? We did not ask what her name was, but who was she? She was the woman who fed Elijah. That question was put out more to stimulate an interest in getting the right appliances than for any other purpose. It had another purpose in guiding you to that beautiful story. In addition to the above appliances, you need also, access to a student's cyclopedia for your supplemental work. Away down in Arizona, I visited a home and I found there one of the teachers of the theology in the Relief Society, and she had her student's cyclopedia of the Bible, and from it she could get a wealth of information that was not given in the text. You need the Scriptures, as the 'Magazine has to economize its Spaees to the extent that we cannot have long references therein. The activities of your class: An important item is the assignment of a lesson. When a lesson is assigned that means two things. It means that the class leader expects something to be done with that assignment, and the person to whom the assignment is made has a right to expect that that assignment will not suffer neglect. Expect your assignments to be filled but never neglect an assignment. Make provisions for the person to whom the assignment is made so that it may be presented. In the order of activities, we have first the presentation of the matter, second, the questions, and third, the discussion. Do with your lessons as the Magazine is doing. Budget the time—they budget the space. Say to the speaker who presents the lesson, you can have so much time to present the matter and if you can get through with what is in the Magazine, all right, but you have only so much time. Then set aside time for the questions which are there, and also for the discussion. A discussion entered into right in the midst of the lesson or the answering of questions usually results in somebody being cut out and you have not only hurt your recitation but you have hurt somebody's feelings, and the next time an assignment is made the person feels that perhaps she won't be called on at all. So_present the matter, within the allotted time, and then you can cut vour discussion off at any time. It is to be hoped, if I understand it, in any course of study, that a teacher is at liberty and expected to supplement the lesson and enrich it. At the end of each lesson there might be a question put, "How can I use this lesson in my home?" I do not remember ever having a lesson that could not be applied to and put over in the homes. I appreciate your attention to this matter, and may the Lord bless you and help you to do what you are doing, and do it better and better and go right on and widen your field of information and