The Relief Society Magazine - June 1968, Vol. 55, No. 6

Mountain Mother Lullaby Peggy Tangren The wind is coasting down the hill On long grass runners. (Sh be still.) The loons are rocking on the lake. (You little owl, you're wide awake.) Time enough to be stern and tall, With the granite strength of a canyon wall; To lean to the storms and grow to be As firmly rooted as a tree. These are days of gentle things, Of marmots, squirrels, and humming bird wings Fanning your cheek in aspen shade, Of little rabbits, unafraid, Venturing out of mountain brush To follow you. (Hush baby, hush.) Gentle things will teach you how To love the earth as I love you now As I love you now.

The Cover: Ruins at Chiapas, Mexico Transparency by Camera Clix Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Mount Moran, Wyoming Photograph by Don Knight

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

The subject matter, fiction, special and general articles, suggestions for home and family living, which enrich the Magazine, are a great help and inspiration to all of the sisters. I had the privilege of serving our local Relief Society for one year as secretary-treasurer, and I now hold the position of visiting teacher message leader. I love Relief Society and wish to express my appreciation for the leadership which makes the Magazine so wonderful.

Evelyne Bean Duncan Bozeman, Montana

The Magazine is wonderful and the sisters up here in Canada really love it. Many who are nonmembers read the Magazine and love it, too. It is a great help in missionary work.

Helen D. Toronto Relief Society Supervisor, Canadian Mission

May we express our appreciation for a fresh re-telling of a beloved story, "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star," in the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine. We found it so inspirational that we plan to adapt it, along with a poem by Margery S. Stewart, "A Song of Wheels" in the January 1963 issue of the Magazine (the poem to be set to music), for narration, to be used at our visiting teacher convention in May.

Maida Moody, President Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, Topanga, California

Three times in recent months, I have found pictures of Relief Society groups with whom at one time I was associated. That is another wonderful feature of the Magazine.

Dorothy C. Robinson Orem, Utah

We are happy to report that our Spanish sisters are enjoying and putting to use the Spanish Relief Society Magazine. Thank you for this wonderful gift to them. Our goal this year is "A Relief Society Magazine in Every Home," and El Paso Stake is working for this aim.

Lavinia B. Jackson, President El Paso Stake Relief Society

The arrival of my Relief Society Magazine is always special to me the March 1968 issue even more so. "A Summer's Day" by Ruth Nicholson Pepper of Corrimal East, New South Wales, Australia, took me right back into my childhood. We lived and grew up a few miles along the coast from Sister Pepper's home at Fairmeadow. The blackberry picking and the fear of snakes were as much a part of summer as were the sparkling sun and the golden beaches. Thank you for a touching trip into an almost forgotten memory.

Marina Schrader Buxton, Oregon

I was thrilled to read the article in the March Magazine "How Relief Society Came to Me" by Rexine Eagar. She is a lovely person and it is a blessing to associate with her because of her outlook on life. She has eleven children and is a lovely mother.

Shirley Loveridge Orem, Utah

In the article "Refreshments for the Holiday Season," by Zola McGhie in the November issue of the Magazine, cider is mentioned as a principal ingredient in two recipes. The cider sold in England is alcoholic, and so most of our sisters would not use cider, but would use, instead, a non-alcoholic apple drink.

Doris M. Stevenson Nottingham, England

Through reading a copy of The Relief Society Magazine which my friend receives, I enjoy it so much I would like to become a subscriber. In so many respects it meets the needs of women everywhere. The religious articles are enlightening, the poetry inspirational, the recipes add variety and spice to family meal planning, and the family guides have something new to offer each month. Although I am not a member of the Church, I feel that the Magazine has something to offer all women.

Lois Eiss Forestville, Connecticut

402

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.95 by Caroline Eyring Miner A delightful new collection of prose, poetry, wit, and wisdom — especially for mothers. This colorful gift publication will make an ideal surprise for any mother on a birthday or other gift-giving occasion. ( $3.95 by Frances Grant Bennett Here is a delightful biography by a daughter of the late President Heber J. Grant, whose husband is Utah's senior senator, Wallace F. Bennett. This intimate, personal glimpse into the lives of the Grants and the Bennetts will provide fascinating reading for all those interested in these two outstanding families. 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 841 10 OR 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send: (] THERE'S ALWAYS MOTHER [GLIMPSES OF A MORMON FAMILY Total cost of purchase $...........---This must include 3'2% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake; OR 5% sales tax from Calif. Residents ordering from Orange. Paid by check (] Money order (J Charge established account [] RS. JUNE '68 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ML Pee S SOO SEE SESSSSOSEHSSHHHHHHSHHHOHOCE Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah "Happiness 15... A bowl of berries..... Topped with energy: rich SU and I Sugar the sugar from Sugarplum Land that makes your life sweeter TY G "and every spoonful you use, sweetens the local economy!"