[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: MISCELLANEOUS. | Author: Unknown]

MISCELLANEOUS. 

	An industrious and virtuous education of
children is a better inheritance for them than
a great estate.—Addison.
	Yield once and a portion of virtue is gone.
Resist manfully, and the first decision well
give strength for life: repeated, it will become
a habit.—Samuel Smiles
	We are ruined, not by what we really want,
but by what we think we do; therefore never
go abroad in search of your wants, for if they
be real wants they will come home in search of
you. He that buys what he does not want will
soon want what he cannot buy.— Colton.
	The education of our children is never out
of my mind. Train them to virtue, habituate
them to industry, activity and spirit. Make
them consider every vice as shameful and un-
manly. Fire them with ambition to be useful.
Make them disdain to be destitute of any use-
ful knowledge.—John Adams to his wife.
	The most illiterate man who is touched with
devotion, and uses  frequent exercises of it,
contracts a certain greatness of mind,mingled
with a noble simplicity, that raises him above
those of the same condition. It is hardly
possible it should be otherwise; for the fervors
of a pious mind will naturally contract such
earnestness and attention toward a better being
as will make the ordinary passages of life go
off with a becoming indifference. By this a
man in the lowest condition will not appear
mean, or in the most splendid fortune i


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS		-	Editor
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher Woman's Exponent, 
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	October 1,1890.


