[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: A Testament of Crawford]
LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJkeologyi — The  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  3-vxEarthly  Advent  of  the  Christ  Predicted" 
uThe  Meridian  of  Time" 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Christ  (Chapters  5  and  6),  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage) 
For  Tuesday,  December  2,  1947 
Objective:  To  demonstrate  that  the  great  events  of  the  Savior's  life  and  of  his  plan 
of  salvation  had  been  revealed  aforetime;  and  to  give  an  explanation  of  the  condition  of 
the  Jews  during  the  meridian  of  time. 
"CURELY  the  Lord  God  will  do 
nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his 
secret  unto  his  servants  the  proph- 
ets" (Amos  3:7). 
Three  outstanding  prophecies  run 
all  the  way  through  the  books  of  the 
Old  Testament: 
1.  The  coming  of  Messiah  or  a 
king. 
2.  The  scattering  of  Israel. 
3.  The  gathering  of  Israel. 
We  shall  consider  only  the  first. 
For  more  than  a  thousand  years  prior 
to  the  Lord's  advent  in  the  flesh,  the 
tribes  of  Israel  had  been  looking  for 
a  great  deliverer  and  leader.  Only  the 
prophets  seem  to  have  realized  fully 
in  what  manner  he  would  appear. 
Moses  wrote  the  Pentateuch,  or 
the  five  books  of  the  law,  in  about 
1451  B.C.  There  followed  after  him 
a  long  line  of  prophets,  nearly  all  of 
whom  promised  the  Jews  that  their 
king  was  coming.  These  promises, 
though  more  or  less  indistinct  and 
uncertain,  were  a  great  comfort  and 
Page  636 
source  of  hope  to  the  chosen  people. 
They  are  edifying  and  stimulating 
today. 
We  should  remember  that  the 
twelve  books  following  Deuter- 
onomy were  written  by  appointed 
historians.  These  historians  wrote 
much  that  is  difficult  to  understand, 
because  we  are  unfamiliar  with  many 
of  the  events  of  their  day.  The  his- 
tory which  was  written  was  and  is 
priceless.  Truly,  the  Lord  verified 
his  promise  to  Abraham.  He  made 
of  Israel  a  great  nation  (Gen. 
12:1-3).  Whether  we  study  the  ut- 
terances of  divinely  commissioned 
prophets  or  the  writings  of  inspired 
poets,  we  will  find  they  are  all  rich 
in  promises  of  the  coming  of  3 
Messiah. 
Adam,  the  father  of  the  human 
race,  knew  of  the  coming  of  a  Savior 
and  rejoiced  in  the  wonderful  ex- 
planation given  by  the  angel  (Moses 
5:6-9).  Other  great  prophets  be- 
tween Adam  and  Abraham  knew 
and  rejoiced  because  of   the   great

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
plan  of  salvation.  The  first  great 
prophecy  recorded  in  Jewish  scrip- 
ture of  the  Messiah's  coming  is  re- 
corded in  Gen.  49:10. 
A  learned  Jew  in  New  York  once 
said  to  the  writer  of  these  lessons: 
"We  think  also  Jacob  referred  in 
that  promise  to  the  coming  of  a 
king  or  Messiah,  but  we  have  no 
proof  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  fulfilled 
that  prophecy."  He  was  invited  to 
study  the  history  of  Judah.  He  was 
willing  to  admit  that  "Shiloh"  meant 
king— one  yet  to  come— and  that 
scepter  connoted  kingly  authority. 
Judah  was  to  reign  in  Palestine  and 
interpret  the  law  until  Shiloh  came. 
Herod,  who  was  king  of  the  Jews 
when  Christ  came,  was  the  first 
foreigner  to  reign  over  Judah  after 
the  settlement  in  Palestine.  After 
the  Savior  was  crucified  and  the 
temple  destroyed,  no  direct  descend- 
ant of  Judah  has  since  reigned  over 
Palestine.  Reread  the  prophecy  in 
the  light  of  these  statements. 
Moses  spoke  of  the  raising  up  of 
a  great  prophet  (Deut.  18:15-19). 
In  fact,  the  system  of  sacrifices  estab- 
lished by  Moses  was  "essentially  a 
prototype  of  the  sacrificial  death  to 
be  accomplished  by  the  Savior  on 
Calvary."  The  prophets  all  knew 
that  the  sacrifices  offered  up  were  in 
similitude  of  the  final  offering  of  the 
Son  of  God.  In  the  Psalms,  we  find 
frequent  reference  or  allusion  to  the 
coming  of  and  the  work  of  Christ. 
Probably,  no  prophet  of  pre-Mes- 
sianic  time  had  a  clearer  vision  of  the 
Redeemer  than  did  Isaiah: 
Surely  he  hath  borne  our  griefs,  and 
carried  our  sorrows:  yet  we  did  esteem  him 
stricken,  smitten  of  God,  and  afflicted. 
But  he  was  wounded  for  our  transgres- 
sions, he  was  bruised  for  our  iniquities:  the 
637 
chastisement  of  our  peace  was  upon  him; 
and  with  his  stripes  we  are  healed. 
All  we  like  sheep  have  gone  astray;  we 
have  turned  every  one  to  his  own  way; 
and  the  Lord  hath  laid  on  him  the  iniquity 
of  us  all. 
He  was  oppressed,  and  he  was  afflicted, 
yet  he  opened  not  his  mouth:  he  is  brought 
as  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  and  as  a  sheep 
before  her  shearers  is  dumb,  so  he  openeth 
not  his  mouth. 
He  was  taken  from  prison  and  from 
judgment:  and  who  shall  declare  his  gen- 
eration? for  he  was  cut  off  out  of  the  land 
of  the  living:  for  the  transgression  of  my 
people  was  he  stricken  (Isaiah  53:4-8). 
The  entire  chapter  should  be  read. 
Zechariah  interrupted  his  prophecy 
concerning  the  restoration  of  Israel 
in  the  latter  day  to  tell  that  the 
Savior  would  come  and  that  his 
hands  would  be  wounded  in  the 
house  of  his  friends. 
Nearly  all  of  the  books  of  the  Old 
Testament  are  rich  in  the  promise 
of  the  coming  of  a  Messiah. 
The  visions  concerning  the  com- 
ing of  our  Lord,  given  to  the  proph- 
ets upon  the  eastern  hemisphere, 
were  also  given  explicitly  to  the 
prophets  on  the  western  hemisphere. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history 
of  a  colony  of  Israelites,  descendants 
of  Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt. 
This  group  of  people  left  Jerusalem 
about  600  B.C.  Some  of  them  were 
devout  and  wonderful  prophets  to 
whom  the  knowledge  of  the  coming 
Redeemer  was  given  with  great 
plainness.  Perhaps  none  saw  more 
clearly  than  Lehi,  the  leader  of  the 
colony.    His  son  Nephi  records: 
Yea,  even  six  hundred  years  from  the 
time  that  my  father  left  Jerusalem,  a  proph- 
et would  the  Lord  God  raise  up  among  the 
Jews — even  a  Messiah,  or,  in  other  words, 
a  Savior  of  the  world  (1  Nephi  10:4) .