[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 3
Religious Activities President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, December 2, 1947
Objective: their activities. HE religious zeal of the pioneers was due to their testimonies of the truthfulness of the restored gospel; and their desire to live up to this knowledge. Because of their testimonies they were willing to leave their homes and friends, and to give up their former religious affiliations; willing to endure hardships and persecutions and to undergo physical and mental suffering; willing and determined to live the gospel, cost what it might. And because of their testimonies they were strengthened to endure their hard and trying experiences, and in turn, by these very experiences, their testimonies were strengthened. From the time the new light came to them, it was the great and driving force in their lives. Religion with the pioneers was not merely a Sunday affair, but played a most important part in their daily lives. Religious observances and activities were fostered and practiced from the beginning, in the homes, in the temporary settlements en route to the West, on the plains, and, finally, in the permanent settlements, and all in spite of physical hardships and handicaps, limited resources, and long and arduous hours of toil and labor for mere subsistence. There was always time for religion. The pioneers were a praying, church-going, That we may review the religious practices of the pioneers and emulate scripture-reading people. The holding of family prayers was a common practice, with each member, in turn, being voice. The Sabbath was strictly observed. Churchgoing was popular, even with children, and partaking of the sacrament was regarded as a privilege and special blessing. One of the most interesting places for children to go was to Sunday School, even though, in most instances, those in classes sat on long benches, and one Bible was passed along, giving each child a chance to read a verse. Fast Day was observed on Thursday, a weekday, a working day, when the fast was observed by every faithful member, and men and women, farmers, merchants, and all the people left their