[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Inspiration Lillywhite]

INSPIRATION Eva J. Lillywhite Whatever sunshine touches, it leaves a violet Tay, never faith awakens, it leaves a perfect day, Whenever kindness lingers to heal a broken heart,  n someone is really doing more than his part. LESSON = DEPARTMENT Theology The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 3 "Earthly Advent of the Christ Predicted" "The Meridian of Time" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ (Chapters 5 and 6), by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 2, 1947
Objective: To demonstrate that the great events of the Savior's life and of his plan of salvation had been revealed aforetime; and to give an explanation of the condition of the Jews during the meridian of time. 'SQURELY the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets" (Amos 3:7).
Three outstanding prophecies run all the way through the books of the Old Testament: 1. The coming of Messiah or a king. | 2. The scattering of Israel. 3. The gathering of Israel. We shall consider only the first. For more than a thousand years prior to the Lord's advent in the flesh, the tribes of Israel had been looking for a great deliverer and leader.
Only the prophets seem to have realized fully in what manner he would appear.
Moses wrote the Pentateuch, or the five books of the law, in about 1451 B. C.
There followed after him a long line of prophets, nearly all of whom promised the Jews that their king was coming.
These promises, though more or less indistinct and uncertain, were a great comfort and Page 636 source of hope to the chosen people.
They are edifying and stimulating today. We should remember that the twelve books following Deuteronomy were written by appointed historians. 'These historians wrote much that is difficult to understand, because we are unfamiliar with many of the events of their day. The history which was written was and is priceless. Truly, the Lord verified his promise to Abraham. He made of Israel a great nation (Gen. 12:1-3).
Whether we study the utterances of divinely commissioned prophets or the writings of inspired poets, we will find they are all rich in promises of the coming of a Messiah. Adam, the father of the human race, knew of the coming of a Savior and rejoiced in the wonderful: explanation given by the angel (Moses 5:6-9).
Other great prophets between Adam and Abraham knew and rejoiced because of the great LESSON DEPARTMENT plan of salvation. 'The first great prophecy recorded in Jewish scripture of the Messiah's coming is recorded in Gen. 49:10. A learned Jew in New York once said to the writer of these lessons: "We think also Jacob referred in that promise to the coming of a king or Messiah, but we have no proof that Jesus of Nazareth fulfilled that prophecy." He was invited to study the history of Judah. He was willing to admit that "Shiloh" meant king one yet to come and that scepter connoted kingly authority.
Judah was to reign in Palestine and interpret the law until Shiloh came. Herod, who was king of the Jews when Christ came, was the first foreigner to reign over Judah after the settlement in Palestine.
After the Savior was crucified and the temple destroyed, no direct descendant of Judah has since reigned over Palestine.
Reread the prophecy in the light of these statements.
Moses spoke of the raising up of a great prophet (Deut. 18:15-19). In fact, the system of sacrifices established by Moses was "essentially a prototype of the sacrificial death to be accomplished by the Savior on Calvary." The prophets all knew that the sacrifices offered up were in similitude of the final offering of the Son of God. In the Psalms, we find frequent reference or allusion to the coming of and the work of Christ. Probably, no prophet of pre-Messianic time had a clearer vision of the Redeemer than did Isaiah: Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the 637 chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his-own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken (Isaiah 53:4-8). The entire chapter should be read.
Zechariah interrupted his prophecy concerning the restoration of Israel in the latter day to tell that the Savior would come and _ that his hands would be wounded in the house of his friends.
Nearly all of the books of the Old Testament are rich in the promise of the coming of a Messiah. The visions concerning the coming of our Lord, given to the prophets upon the eastern hemisphere, were also given explicitly to the prophets on the western hemisphere. The Book of Mormon is a history of a colony of Israelites, descendants of Joseph who was sold into Egypt.
This group of people left Jerusalem about 600 B. C.
Some of them were devout and wonderful prophets to whom the knowledge of the coming Redeemer was given with great plainness.
Perhaps none saw more clearly than Lehi, the leader of the colony. His son Nephi records: Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world (1
Nephi 10:4). 638 (It is recommended that members read all of Chapter 10.) Nephi saw not only that the Savior would be born, but saw also in vision many of the events which would occur following the birth. The prophet Abinadi speaks of the Godship of the Christ and says that he is "the very Eternal Father of heaven and of earth" (Mosiah 15:4). He meant, of course, in the sense that he created the world and is, therefore, its father.
This great man saw that Jesus the Redeemer would be God and would come down among the "children of men, and shall redeem his people." Furthermore, just five years before the event, it was given to Samuel, the Lamanite, to know the time of Messiah's birth. The Meridian of Time This expression is frequently used. In its broad sense, the word meridian connotes principal divisions of time and space. Usually, it means noontime or the highest point the sun attains in its daily course. In all Christian countries, the years of human history are divided by the time of the birth of Jesus Christ. We speak of the time before that event as B. C., meaning before Christ, and after as A. D., or "in the year of the Lord." A. D.
Comes from the Latin words anno Domini. The plan of thus dividing time was also used by the Nephites. An understanding of the political, social, and religious condition of the world when the Savior was born, is necessary to a clear comprehension of his life and works. It seems necessary to give just a brief resume of the Israelitish history. The name of Jacob, a grandson of Abraham, was changed to Israel. 'The descendants
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1947 of Abraham became known as the children of Israel.
They were designated as Israelites from the time they were in bondage in Egypt until the conclusion of the reign of Solomon.
After his death, the tribe of Judah, part of the tribe of Benjamin, and remnants of other tribes remained loyal to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, while the rest of the Israelites made Jeroboam, an Ephraimite, their king. The latter group came to be known as the Ten Tribes, sometimes called Ephraim, or the kingdom of Israel. The two kingdoms maintained a separate status for about two hundred and fifty years. In about 721 B. C., the kingdom of Israel was destroyed and the captives were carried to the nations lying to the north.
They later disappeared so completely as to be referred to thereafter as the Lost Tribes. The kingdom of Judah continued for another one hundred and fifty years when the people were made captives and taken to Babylon.
Judah was in exile for about seventy years, when they were liberated by decree of Cyrus the Persian.
Most of the Hebrew people returned to Judea. However, this constituted only a fraction of the original Israelitish people.
While they tried hard to reestablish Jewish greatness, the Jews were never again an entirely independent people. The temple service was again established. The sacred temple was rededicated about 163 B. C. Under Roman domination, the Jews were permitted to carry on their religious ceremonials and to exercise judicial powers except in cases of capital punishment.
They could put no one to death without the consent of the Roman officials.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Under the law of Moses, the Jews had been required to keep apart from other nations. They were proud of their lineage and took a "holier-than-thou" position. This attitude frequently caused clashes with other peoples. They were allowed to read only Jewish books. They were enjoined to study and become thoroughly conversant with Jewish laws. They, however, were not a united people. In fact, after their return from the Babylonian exile, they divided into many sects and other contending organizations. The scholars and there were many of them were known as scribes. Many of these were honored with the title of rabbi or teacher. Many of these men rendered an excellent service by compiling and preserving sacred records. Ezra and Nehemiah were leaders in this work. We are indebted to the scribes for some of the finest literature, philosophy, and ancient history found anywhere in the world. The twelve historical books of the Old Testament are invaluable. 'The five poetical books contain gems of philosophy unsurpassed. 'These, of course, were inspired of God. The scribes and rabbis were more highly honored by the people than were the orders of the priesthood. The people became divided into many religious sects. The leading orders or denominations were the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Essenes, the Nazarites, the Herodians, and the Galileans. The Pharisees were, by far, the largest group. The scribes usually united with them. Paul said in his defense before Agrippa: "After the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee 639
That sentence gives us a key. They all professed a belief in the Mosaic Law, but differed in their interpretation thereof. 'The Pharisees were very strict in their interpretation not only of the law of Moses, but also all rabbinical teachings were closely studied and often disputed. They contended much with other sects and among themselves. The Sadducees contended for strict compliance with the Mosaic law as they construed it, especially the penalties "an eye for an eye, and a tooth fora tooth." They did not believe in the resurrection. Space will not permit a more detailed examination of the various Jewish sects. We must mention that the authority of the priesthood was, at least, outwardly recognized by the Jews, when the Savior came. While the priests were inferior to the scribes, they were permitted to officiate in the sacred ceremonials of the temple. However, the religion of the day consisted almost entirely of forms and ceremonials. The state of the world, at the time the Savior was born, was one of comparative peace. There were fewer wars than the Roman Empire had known for many years. The time was favorable for his advent. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Point out some of the outstanding prophecies of the scriptures concerning the coming of the Messiah, Illustrate the clarity of the Book of Mormon prophecies. 2. Discuss the religious and political condition of the Jews during the meridian of time. 3. To a study of what subjects was Jewish learning restricted?