[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Types of Driggs]

N_ the Doctrine and Covenants there are many forms of literature. There are examples of epistles, apocalyptic literature of the visionary type, prayers, exposition of a doctrinal nature, erotesis, the rhetorical question type of writing, which is often used with impressive literary effect, and Targums, known in Hebrew literature as the type of exposition which explains the scripture. Yes, and there are even examples of the lyric or song, together with the exalted rhapsody which includes a fusion of literary form such as_ the drama, vision, judgment, and revelations. Of all the forms mentioned in the Doctrine and Covenants, four are more complete in sufficient amount 

  SEPTEMBER 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT to study in separate lessons.
These may be named as epistles, visions, prayers, and doctrinal exposition or instruction. Since, in this lesson, we are considering a survey of the types of literature found in this modern scripture, we will include all the forms but briefly to carry out an over-all review. The direct and fervent appeal of one who cannot be present to carry his message in person, but must live out his thoughts through his pen, is found in the type of literature we call the epistle.
Often such writing reaches the literary heights.
Note the following section of the Doctrine and Covenants in this light: Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them! And again, what do we hear?
Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times! And again, the voice of God in. The chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels 643 and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael. Or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning-stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy. And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice ~we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers! Behold, the great day of the Lord is at hand; and who can abide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fuller's soap; and he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation. 
  SEPTEMBER 1947 
Brethren, I have many things to say to you on the subject; but shall now close for the present, and continue the subject another time, through our beloved, your humble servant and never deviating friend, Joseph Smith (125:10-25).
The lofty type of literature that upholds and sustains the saints often was given in periods of travail and suffering. This kind of writing is visionary in style and is exalted in tone. Note this passage from the Doctrine and Covenants:
The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name (110:1-6).
An example of an inspired prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith, written in jail at Liberty, Missouri, follows:
O God, where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place? How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries? Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward them? O Lord God Almighty, maker of heaven, earth, and seas, and of all things that in them are, and who knowest
and subjectest the devil, and the dark and benighted dominions of Sheol—stretch forth thy hand; let thine eye pierce; let thy pavilion be taken from thy hiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward us. Let thine anger be kindled against our enemies; and, in the fury of thine heart, with thy sword avenge us of our wrongs. Remember thy suffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever (121:1-6).
The Lord often speaks to his children through his Prophet in language powerful and quick. From a literary point of view such writing is expository and doctrinal in nature, but often, too, it is filled with poetic figures. Study the lines of this revelation explaining a pattern of good life:
Wherefore, lift up your hearts and rejoice, and gird up your loins, and take upon you my whole armor, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all, that ye may be able to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, which I have sent mine angels to commit unto you; Taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of my Spirit, which I will pour out upon you, and my word which I reveal unto you, and be agreed as touching all things whatsoever ye ask of me, and be faithful until I come, and ye shall be caught up, that where I am ye shall be also. Amen (27:15-18).
Divine instruction is often given in literary forms. Note the effect of the rhetorical questions used by the Lord in the following section of the Doctrine and Covenants:
Verily thus saith the Lord unto my servant William Marks, and also unto my servant Newel K. Whitney, let them settle up their business speedily and journey from LESSON DEPARTMENT the land of Kirtland, before I, the Lord, send again the snows upon the earth. Let them: awake, and arise, and come forth, and not tarry, for I, the Lord, command it. Therefore, if they tarry it shall not be well with them. - Let them repent of all their sins, and of all their covetous desires, before me, saith the Lord; for what is property unto me?
Saith the Lord.. Let properties of Kirtland be turned out for debts, saith the Lord. Let them go, saith the Lord, and whatsoever remaineth, let it remain in your hands, saith the Lord. For have I not the: fowls of heaven, and also the fish of the sea, and the beasts of the mountains? Have I not made the earth? Do I not hold the destinies of all the armies of the nations of the earth? Therefore, will I not make solitary places to bud and to blossom, and to bring forth in Is there not room enough on the mountains of Adam that you should covet that which is but the drop, and neglect the more weighty matters? Therefore, come up hither unto the land of my people, even Zion (117: 1-9) Another form of the Hebraic style of writing is classified as the Targum. Here, other existing scripture is interpreted not explained: Q.
What is the sea of glass spoken of by John, 4th chapter, and 6th verse of the Revelation? A. It is the earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state.
What are we to understand by the four beasts, spoken of in the same verse? A.
They are figurative expressions, used by the Revelator, John, in describing heaven, the paradise of God, the happiness of man, and of beasts, and of creeping things, and of the fowls of the air; that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal; and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual; the spirit of man in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created (77: 1-2). For the pure element of literary excellence in emotions, perhaps none 645 is greater than the song or lyric and the rhapsody.
Consider the next two selections, the first might be called a psalm or poem, while the second, a rhapsody in type, is a fusion, in part, of literary forms such as would be found in drama, lyric, narrative or prophetic writings: The Lord hath brought again Zion; The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel, According to the election of grace, Which was brought to pass by the faith And covenant of their fathers. The Lord hath redeemed his people; And Satan is bound and time ls no longer. The Lord hath gathered all things in one. The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength; And truth is established in her bowels; And the heavens have smiled upon her; And she is clothed with the glory of her God; For he stands in the midst of his people. Glory, and honor, and power, and might, Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy, Justice, grace and truth, and peace.
Forever and ever, Amen. (84:99-102)- And now, verily saith the Lord, that these things might be known among you,  inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, who hath appeared unto some and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear for the hour of his judgment is come, and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and name of the Lord day and night, saying: O that thou wouldst rend the heavens, that thou wouldst come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence. And it shall be answered upon their heads; 646 for the presence of the Lord shall be as the melting fire that burneth, and as the fire which causeth the waters to boil. O Lord, thou shalt come down to make thy name known to thine adversaries, and all nations shall tremble at thy presence.
When thou doest terrible things, things they look not for; yea, when thou comest down, and the mountains flow down at thy presence, thou shalt meet him who rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, who remembereth thee in thy ways. For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast prepared for. Him that waiteth for thee. And it shall be said: Who is this that cometh down from God in heaven with dyed garments; yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength? And he shall say: I am he who spake in righteousness, mighty to save. And the Lord shall be red in his apparel, and his garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat. And so great shall be the glory of his presence that the sun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall withhold its light, and the stars shall be hurled from their places. And his voice shall be heard: I have trodden the wine-press alone, and have brought judgment upon all people; and none were with me. And I have trampled them in my fury, and I did tread upon them in mine anger, and their blood have I sprinkled upon my garments, and stained all my raiment; for this was the day of vengeance which was in my heart. And now the year of my redeemed is come; and they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord, and all that he has bestowed upon them according to his goodness, and according to his loving kindness, forever and ever. In all their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them; and in his love, and in his pity, he redeemed them, and bore them, and carried them all the days of old; yea, and Enoch also, and they who were with him; the prophets who were before him; and Noah also, and they who were before him; and Moses also; and they who were before him; and from Moses to Elijah, and from Elijah to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1947
John, who were with Christ in his resurrection, and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb, And the graves of the saints shall be opened; and they shall come forth and stand on the right hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon Mount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night forever and ever. And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity to prepare the weak for those things.
Which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord's errand in the day when the weak shall confound the wise, and the little one become a strong nation, and two shall put their tens of thousands to flight. And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his Spirit. And for this cause these commandments were given: they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh and this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh. And unto him that repenteth and sanctifieth himself before the Lord shall be given eternal life. And upon them that hearken not to the voice of the Lord shall be fulfilled that which was written by the prophet Moses, that they should be cut off from among the people. And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For, behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch (133:36-64).
Activities and Readings for Appreciation In this lesson time should be taken to consider the truth and beauty of the various types of literature found in the Doctrine and Covenants.
This can be done by a study of the selections included in the lesson itself with the help of the following questions.
Have the passages read aloud LESSON DEPARTMENT after the questions have been answered. 1. Why should a prayer border on the lyric type of literature? 2.
Doctrinal exposition is direct. The Lord's word is as a two-edged sword. How is this clear-cut effect of such writing obtained? 647 3.
What is a rhetorical question and how is its use effective as a literary pattern of writing? 4. To what does the lyric or psalm appeal? How is its effect carried out in writing? 5.
What element of literature on a grand scale is suggested in the rhapsody?