[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Memories Louise Sill]

MEMORIES Louise Sill Apricot blossoms his pink and white cheeks; Autumn leaves rustling his scurrying feet; A rippling brook his childish laughter! Father, forgive my tears after You took him home! Silk, Cotton, and Wool Produced in Utah Julia A. F. Lund Former Secretary-Treasurer, Relief Society General Board THE year 1947 brings with it a challenge! Janus-like, we stand facing both ways. It is well that it should be so, for the past always offers the key to the meaning of the present, and renews faith and courage with which to meet the future. As this message of the history of the past century is reviewed, it creates a fuller realization of the glorious heritage coming to us from our pioneer mothers and fathers. It brings great happiness to find so much in the spirit of those times with which today we can be in harmony.
While history is a record of what has been achieved, it is most uninteresting unless it is illuminated by an understanding of the men and women who lived it. One writer has observed that "The Mormon people are not a religious sect—but an empire building people."
Certain it is there were two dominant motives in all they did: the practice of their religion in peace; and the establishment of homes for their families where they could enjoy security and opportunities for advancement.
The three basic needs of humanity—food, shelter, and raiment—presented especially acute problems to Utah's founders. In their struggles to meet the "three existence wants," there is an eloquent but realistic picture of the glory of the commonplace. This struggle depicts the dig-
old-fashioned virtues of thrift and frugality, of resourcefulness and hospitality, of taking the long view, which required endless patience and complete self-forgetfulness.
Many examples of great courage in the face of hardship have come down to us. The fanning on the plains and leaving the harvest for the crows to follow; the story of the young man from the Mormon Battalion, who, in the fall of 1847, walked every step of the way from California to Utah, carrying on his back the bushel of hard wheat seed for the next spring. No matter what the pangs of hunger might have been, that precious seed was not touched!
These are but dramatic examples of the labors and spirit and heroic sacrifices made by all the pioneers in solving the food problem. As a necessary part of providing shelter, the churches and schoolhouses arose along with the first dwellings—a vital part of community building.
The pioneers believed that this region would provide the means for meeting the needs of the people. In the words of the historian Neff,
The soil demonstrated its willingness to yield abundantly under irrigation, if world of building material was available; but the gratification of the clothing needs, while simple enough in theory, was accompanied by a multitude of difficulties the surmounting of which required heroic efforts and measures. Page
589 ELIZA FORSGREN AT HER SILK REEL She demonstrated reeling, spinning, and weaving at the Columbian Exposition, Chicago, in 1893. The story of the pioneer textile industries is a most important page in the history of Utah's development. Very little could be expected from the outside, at that time, so the people realized that the answer to their great needs must be in the training of their own hearts, minds, and souls. 'They learned to avoid mistakes by making a great many. Is this not an application of the theory of education advanced by our great modern philosopher John Dewey: "Learn to do things by doing them"? Our pioneers taught by example the real message of history. According to Whitney's History of Utah, from the beginning, President Young and other leaders were most zealous in promoting manual training and home manufacturing. Brigham Young, as Governor, in his message to the Legislature in January 1852, said: Deplorable indeed must be the situation of that people whose sons are not trained in the practice of every useful avocation and whose daughters mingle not in the hive of industry.... Produce what you consume; draw from the native elements the necessities of life; permit no vitiated taste to lead you into indulgence of expensive luxuries, which can only be obtained by involving yourselves in debt. Let home industry produce every article of home consumption. No sounder principle of political economy was ever taught and, at the Governor's suggestion, appropriations were made by the Legislature to encourage the local manufacturing interests. He also asked protective legislation to foster infant industries. The problems of food and shelter being solved, attention was then called to the need for clothing. HE Church leaders all urged the people to bring to their new homes tools of every description. 
  SEPTEMBER 1947 SILK, COTTON, AND WOOL PRODUCED IN UTAH } 591
They enumerated especially tools required for spinning, weaving, and dressing silk, cotton, and wool. These cards, spinning wheels, and hand looms found a place in the pioneer wagons, and mechanical ingenuity quickly supplied them if they were lacking. 'Silk President Young affirmed that this country was the finest in the world for silk raising. Practical experience proved that Utah is well adapted to the culture of silk. This was satisfactorily demonstrated through the efforts of The Deseret Silk Association of Utah Territory, in 1877. One of the few reports of this industry in Utah is found in "A Treatise on Sericulture," on file in the Church Historian's office. This relates the efforts of the Society, combined with individual labors, which seemed to assure the success of this important branch of home industry at a time when it was greatly needed. The following is from the introduction to the treatise, and expresses the spirit with which every enterprise was undertaken: In the silk growing countries of Europe the feeding and care of the silk worm is mostly done by women and children, This employment affording them means for subsistence. With us, when it becomes a staple production, through its extensive culture, it will not only prove a source of self-sustaining as a clothing department, but of commercial wealth. In its culture and manufacture it will create profitable employment for thousands of the coming generation, who, otherwise, in all probability, would grow up in idleness, the direct road to vice. This should be a weighty consideration with those who regard the future welfare of society and should stimulate to earnest and determined efforts in laying the foundation of this grand enterprise. The elements of Utah abound with the materials which only wait the creative wand of industry to beckon it forth. THE OLD COX HOME, MANTI, UTAH Where silk worms were grown and silk spun from cocoons. 592
This quaint exhortation is followed by a description of the silkworm its hatching, feeding, moulting, spinning cocoons, producing eggs, and how to best preserve it, detriments and antidotes and last, but very important, the cultivation of the mulberry tree. In The Contributor, 1881, appears an article by George D.
Pyper on silk culture in Utah.
This is of special interest to Relief Society women as it gives an account of the organization of The Utah Silk Association, founded in 1879, with William Jennings president, Eliza R.
Snow vice-president, and Zina D. H.
Young as a member of the board of directors. In 1868, a cocoonery was built about four miles south of Salt Lake City, and twenty-five or thirty acres of land were planted with mulberry trees. Zina D. H.
Young was the first person to take care of the cocoonery. Later, a small building to house the silk industry was erected at the mouth of City Creek Canyon. The silk enterprise was not confined to Salt Lake City alone., The whole 'Territory was more or less engaged in it. The cocoon raising and all phases of the industry required great patience and care, but there were competent people to handle it. The following is an expression of their faith: Silk will be one of the most important branches of Utah's industry and will add greatly to our character of an enterprising and self-sustaining people. Kanab, Orderville, and other places in Southern Utah became interested in producing silk, but it did not prove to be a success financially in those places, though some beautiful dress silks, handkerchiefs, laces, where.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1947 and scarves were made; also the elegant fringe used in the trimmings in the St. George Temple. The longing for beauty and the fine things of life, coupled with the pride in home industry, so strong in the pioneer mothers, found expression in the loyalty with which women supported the silk production.
Samples of raw silk sent to New York and European countries were found to be equal to that made any In fact, Italian and French experts pronounced it the best silk produced in America. The elegant curtains which hung in the woman's building at the World's Fair, in 1893, were a fine example of what could be done with the native product. Margaret Caine, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, was the last secretary of the Utah Silk Association, the records of which are now on file with other valuable historic papers, in care of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. Cotton According to the historian Neff, the earliest attempt to grow cotton in Utah was doubtless that of Reddin A.
Allred of Davis County, who, in 1851, demonstrated that cotton could be grown on the benchland *near Kaysville. It soon became evident, however, that the only section commercially satisfactory for this much desired staple was the extreme southwestern portion of the Territory, popularly known as "Utah's Dixie."
Under date of October 1, 1858, The Deseret News published an article under the title "Cotton and Its Culture in Utah."
This article reports that, in 1855, the first at- SILK, COTTON, AND WOOL PRODUCED IN UTAH 593  attempts on a large scale to raise cotton in the Territory were made at Fort Clara on the Santa Clara River, three hundred miles south of Salt Lake City.
This effort was followed by the Washington colony, in 1861, when several hundred families were called from the northern and central parts of Utah to go to the South and aid in the development of the cotton industry.
The people chosen for this enterprise were those who had been familiar with such work before coming West, and who were experienced not only in the treatment of the cotton, but in the manufacture of cloth.
Before the Washington Cotton Factory was built, this work was mainly done by the women in the homes on hand rollers and hand cards. The first big cotton crop of the Territory was about one hundred thousand pounds, which showed that the production of cotton in this section was an assured possibility. In Mary Henderson's manuscript History of Utah, under "Historic Sites and Landmarks," there is a report on the Parowan cotton factory.
This factory, it said, was doing "tolerably good work, with a fair prospect that it will be a success, both to the proprietor and the public” (Vol 1, p. 332). A description of the machine which cleaned and prepared the cotton, with other details relative to the manufacture of the finished product follow. The factory was then making yarn of a very superior quality.
There were many small cotton plants, especially at Toqueville and Heberville, in the Dixie country. But with cotton, as with silk, the people realized little from the industry other than to meet the needs of the hour. ZINA D. H. YOUNG Zina D. H.
Young was the wife of President Brigham Young and was first counselor in the Relief Society General Presidency, 1880-1887, and general president 1888-1901. Sister Zina was given the special mission of forwarding the silk industry by appointment of President Young. She became president of the Deseret Silk Association which was organized in 1875. The difficulty of procuring cotton factory machinery, which was almost unavailable at that time, and the pound cost of production made it impossible to throw the stock on the open market, and caused the discontinuance of the industry at the beginning of the present century. Wool While the West proved a paradise for sheep, the hazards of Indian marauders and wild beasts required eternal vigilance on the part of the early settlers. It is recorded that Parley P. Pratt's company of pioneers brought 358 sheep with them, in 1 847, and there were others of which we have no report. In 1848, 654594 sheep were imported, and the census of 1850 records 3262 sheep in Utah.
Since the factory system was not yet in existence, the centers of the textile industry were in the homes. The wool industry was much more extensive and general throughout the entire Territory than was either the silk or cotton industries. The story of wool is an excellent illustration of the independence of the sheep-owning family. The herders of those days were the younger boys and girls who grazed the sheep on the outskirts of the towns. The father or, often, the mother clipped the fleece from the sheep's back.
Grandmothers brought most valuable experience to the washing and carding of the wool which prepared it for the spinning wheel and the loom. In September 1851, John Taylor wrote: A larger company of woolen manufacturers will come from France next season, bringing with them all necessary machinery and the best of sheep, all of which are necessary. In 1849, there was established a carding machine on Mill Creek. The first rolls, made by Amasa Russell on this machine, were spun into yarn by women and woven into cloth on the old hand looms. In March 1851, the Territorial Legislature appropriated two thousand dollars for the benefit of the woolen mills which, the next year, turned out flannels, linseys, jeans, and yarn for knitting. It is said that Russell's Mill, the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1947 machinery for which was brought to Utah by Brigham Young, was the first woolen mill on the Pacific slope.
Another woolen mill was established at West Jordan in April 1853, as reported in The Deseret News. The decade of the fifties saw considerable progress in the development of the wool industry due to the mill facilities. 'The machinery for these mills was often conveyed by ox teams to its destination. The wool industry has always been of immense importance to the people of Utah, from the days when our pioneer grandmothers patiently retraced the path taken by the herd and carefully picked from the bushes the precious bits of wool left by the sheep in passing. In the consideration of the textile industries of Utah, one is impressed with the variety and excellence of the articles that were manufactured.
They met the needs of the people and served them well.
They were an example of the co-operative efforts of our pioneers resulting in real functioning power.
That spirit will never die. It set the standard for all time and its message is as clear today as it was one hundred years ago. Far more than a great commercial need was met. It was the expression of real co-operation with a great social and spiritual background. It was the voice of a people crying in the words of the old folk school leader: "Of myself I am nothing all that I have all that I am, I owe to God and to my fellow men." Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. D. & C. 58:27-28.