HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MARCH—The greatest joy lies in giving happiness.
KATHARINE LENROOT, head of the Children's Bureau at Washington, this year was feted on the completion of twenty-five years in service. This dignified, experienced woman's chief interest lies in obtaining laws and regulations for children's benefit, and she pays little attention to decoration or fashion. She is a brilliant conversationalist with a keen sense of humor, and laughed over a letter from a friend who, seeing her picture in the papers, wrote: "Dear Katharine, For heaven's sake get a good photographer or buy some new clothes."
THE Duchesses of Windsor and Kent tied for first place, and Queen Elizabeth was tenth in the annual roll of the ten best-dressed women of the world. A conservative estimate that the dress budgets for the ten socialites exceeded $1,000,000 is not a pretty story while England is at war and her people on rations. Because of the war, Royal courts have been abandoned, to the disappointment of the young debutantes, the tradesmen and titled women who for large fees and presents act as court chaperons.
JUDGE FLORENCE E. ALLEN, native of Utah and one of America's most famous women, has just published her second book, "This Constitution of Ours", an eloquent and interesting study of the great American Document. Her first book was a collection of original poems titled "Patris".
CLARISSA YOUNG SPENCER'S book "One Who Was Valiant" is now off the press. The book was being published at the time of Mrs. Spencer's demise last winter. It is the family life of her father, Brigham Young, told by an affectionate and devoted daughter.
MARY ELLEN CHASE, Professor of English at Smith College and author of many engaging books, the latest "A Goodly Fellowship", on a recent lecture tour spoke of a number of her pupils who had advanced in the field of literature, among them Ann Morrow Lindberg.
EFFIE CANNING CARLTON, composer of the slumberous melody, "Rock-a Bye Baby", died in impoverished circumstances. More than 300,000 copies of her song were sold, but others profited more than she from the royalties.
ELIZABETH HANNIE KUNZ, Idaho's oldest pioneer, died last January just after celebrating her one-hundredth birthday. The party given in the Cedron Ward chapel was attended by four generations of her family besides numerous friends. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and Relief Society worker.
SARAH E. STEWART, Hannah Wilcox Dupont, Katharine G. Wright, Adelaide W. Dusenbury, and Sarah S. Stringham of Utah, all leaders in educational, civic and church work, died in the late winter.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew Gertrude R. Garff Leona B. Fetzer. Edith S. Elliott Mary G. Judd Luella N. Adams Marianne C. Sharp Anna B. Hart
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman