150 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
over by Brother and Sister Grant was a singularly happy one. In this old-fashioned home, friends both old and young were ever welcome. Here good books were always to be found, fine music was enjoyed, and real works of art adorned the walls. As for drama— that was a never-to-be-forgotten pleasure. Fortunately, through the father's identification with the management of the Salt Lake Theatre, the family, with no expense, once a week, and often twice, witnessed plays in which performed some of the most famous actors and actresses the American stage has produced. And with it all, the Gospel was not neglected. Family prayers were said night and morning, the children always taking their turns in praying; hymns were sung, and it was the natural thing for the children to follow the example of their parents in living according to the precepts that the father was teaching the people of the Church. Such was the childhood background of Mary Grant Judd. Being brought up in one of the oldest wards in the city, where the stores early crowded out the dwellings, it was necessary for any who were at all capable to be pressed into service. Before she should have been out of Sunday School classes herself, Mary was assisting in teaching others. When in 1902 she accompanied her parents to Japan, she was but thirteen years of age and yet was considered mature enough by President Joseph F. Smith to be set apart by him as a regular missionary. She remained there over a year, returning to enter the L. D. S. High School, where she completed the required course and graduated. In the meantime, her father had been called to preside over the European Mission, and Mary was afforded the opportunity of visiting most of the countries of Europe, meeting the Saints in the different missions. After three years at the University of Utah and one at Columbia University, she married Robert L. Judd, who is well known for his work throughout the Church as vice-chairman of the Church Welfare Committee. Although seven children have come to the Judd household, their mother has always taken an active part in the ward and stake organizations. This experience together with her strong testimony of the Gospel and her broad outlook obtained through education and extensive travel is excellent preparation for her new duties as a member of the General Board.
Luella Nebeker Adams
IN BEAR LAKE VALLEY, Luella Nebeker Adams' birthplace, was a cold, hard country in which to make homes. Her grandparents, Ira Nebeker and William Hulme, were called to preside as the first bishops in Laketown and Bloomington. These grandparents had determination and the courage of their convictions, qualities so much needed by our pioneers. Luella's parents, Hyrum Nebeker and Almira Hulme Nebeker, were richly endowed with intelligence and spiritual values. Hyrum Nebeker attended school at the Brigham Young Academy under the great educator, Karl G. Maeser. Almira Hulme was one of the first school teachers in the Bear Lake valley. Luella spent her girlhood days on the shores of beautiful Bear Lake where her parents engaged in ranching. Here she learned simple, fundamental truths which have enriched her life, made her patient, understanding, and kindly dispositioned. When the four children in the family reached school age, they spent the winters in Logan, Utah, where Luella attended the Brigham Young College and later the Utah Agricultural College. It was in Logan that she met and married Orval Adams. From this happy union have come six sons. The father and three sons, Allen, Lane, and Hyrum, have fulfilled missions in Great Britain. Lane was secretary of the British Mission, and the father and Hyrum served as secretaries of the European Mission. Mrs. Adams has always been an ardent Church worker. As president of the University Ward Relief Society she had great joy and satisfaction. Here she gained an understanding of the needs of Latter-day Saint women and an appreciation of the great Relief Society work. A student of music, she has been intensely interested in the music program of the Society, believing music
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 151
to be vital in the lives of women. She has been an active member of the Singing Mothers. Mrs. Adams' home is one of culture and refinement, reflecting her spiritual nature. Her graciousness and hospitality make her a charming hostess. In order to live well-balanced, happy lives she believes every woman should have some hobby or interest other than her home duties. She is an enthusiastic gardener and spends many happy hours working among her flowers. Making moving pictures is another hobby she enjoys.