The Cultural Strength of Relief Society By Anna Boss Hart
ON July 30, 1932, it was my privilege to be one of the 105,000 people who stood in the Olympic Stadium to sing the National Anthem and to witness the Olympic torch flame into being to signal the opening of the Games; while guns fired a salute, trumpets were heard and a cloud of white pigeons was released. The torch lighted the way of true sportsmanship and honor for the period of the Tenth Olympiad in Los Angeles. Fifty nations entered, and more than 1,500 athletes from all corners of the world filed past. The magnificent pageant of color and music and the achievement in the stirring anthem will never be forgotten. The inscription engraved below the torch was: "The important thing in the Olympic Games is not the winning but taking part... The essential thing is not conquering but fighting well." Even a greater spectacle might be witnessed if we could get a glimpse of the 80,000 women in our church who also represent the nations of the world. I like to imagine another Flame of Beauty, even greater, a torch which was lighted by the Prophet Joseph Smith nearly a hundred years ago. Probably some of the precious advice which was given to the women of our church at the time of the organization of the Relief Society might have been summarized in this inscription, "The important thing is taking part and fighting well." I like to think of this great Relief Society Olympiad going on for nearly a century and increasing in strength and numbers during all of that time. These women of our church would also represent the greatest of strength but not the strength of "brawn and sinew", not trained physically for world competition, but cultural strength. These women would represent one of the greatest of women's organizations in the world. Mormon women have been participating for nearly a century and have achieved a cultural strength to be envied. Greater inspiration than that of earthly kings and rulers has been theirs, because they have been guided by God-inspired leaders. How have these women of Relief Society been trained? For ninety-eight years their organization has been one for service and cultural enrichment. The torch of Truth and Beauty is held high. Women receive cultural development through association with other good women and by being self-active. They are grateful, and "gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation; you do not find it among gross people." (Samuel Johnson) Culture seeks to do away with class distinction "to make the best that has been thought and known in the world current everywhere," to make all men live in an atmosphere of sweetness and light. Relief Society women are rich in a cultural inheritance. Through the varied educational programs of the organization, a love for the good and beautiful is cultivated. Beauty, a garden, a poem or a smile, gives us courage. It is true that "if you put poetry and music into life you will get poetry and music back a hundred fold; and if you put beauty into life... The (culture) it gives you will fill all your days and years with priceless intellectual and emotional rewards of beauty." (Albert Edward Wiggam) When the Prophet Joseph Smith said at one of those first meetings "and I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time", the foundation for great moments was laid. We feel we are near one of the greatest moments of all Relief Society history—almost at the peak of a hundredth anniversary. Each year finds us a little wiser, more tolerant, less impulsive, more deliberate and more prayerful. DURING the century of participation, women of our church have become acquainted with the world's best in word and deed. They have learned to love religion dearly, to enjoy new values and view wider realms in literature, to serve each other in home and community unselfishly. The educational features were left at first to the discretion of the local groups, and consisted of "testimony bearing, religious addresses and talks, readings, discussions; lessons in parliamentary procedure, especially prepared lectures and music." It is easy to believe that "leading women, among whom there were poets and *Relief Society Handbook, page 22. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 175 prophetesses, became fluent and powerful public speakers in those pioneer times." (Relief Society Handbook.) Now that we have a uniform course of study—Theology, Literature and Social Service, thousands of women can be reached every week. There is power in the feeling that Relief Society women in all parts of the world are receiving similar cultural training. Most Relief Society women are creative and find that there is time to do the little things and therefore do not cheat themselves. They try to make "each day distinguished by at least one thing well worth while." The Mormon Handicraft program is a credit to the vision of our leaders. Many women today enjoy handwork as did those of a few years ago who enjoyed the feel of making threads under the guidance of the wheel "by mind and hand". The capably handled Mormon Handicraft shop is a credit to the women of our church. Accurate workmanship is demanded. It strikes at the finer natures in us. In many a "heart's treasury" "Is the safe-kept memory Of a lovely thing." Women of the Relief Society find that they need not seek afar for beauty. They find that it glows in birds, in stars, in mountains' snows, the faces of children and sweet music. They have found that sometimes "Life's common deeds build all that saints have thought", and "Earth's deeds, well done, glow into heavenly light." (Minot Judson Savage) Since the beginning, the women of our Relief Society have been encouraged to love music and participate in it. One of the high shouts of praise should go to a "singing mother". No name could have been chosen more fittingly. Surely demonstrations like those given by our hundreds of singing mothers can inspire faith anew, and sincere "faith fills life with song". There are so many avenues for different types of creative work. The Eliza R. Snow (Relief Society) Memorial Prize Poem Contest, established in 1923, offers a reward to women of the organization for writing poems of merit. Many of us do not have the ability to write a poem, but when we read one our imagination is fired and we are stimulated often to our noblest thoughts and become creators of unexpressed poems. The greatest cultural guide in our great organization is the Relief Society Magazine, that friend who carries into our homes the cultural wealth of the educational and creative program and much more. It is indeed a stimulating spiritual companion with cheer and counsel for all. With Amy M. Rice, "Each day I joy in living, For someone's magic pen Will take me where I want to go Adventuring again." (R. S. Magazine, Jan., 1940) ANY organization which has as one of its aims "to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement" and another aim "to raise human life to its highest level", cannot fail. In 1942 the Relief Society torch will be brighter than ever. All energies will be turned to that great event. The progress of a century will be reviewed; the purposes of inspired leaders will be given; the power of a century will be realized; the culture of a century will be felt. The torch of Beauty, Truth and Spirituality is burning brightly now. Everyone is working for tomorrow, 1942. Tomorrow withholds nothing. "CULTURE has one great passion—the passion for sweetness and light. It has one even yet greater, the passion for making them prevail." "Culture is then properly described not as having its origin in curiosity, but as having its origin in the love of perfection: it is a study of perfection." Matthew Arnold.