Marianne Clark Sharp
MARIANNE CLARK SHARP was eighteen when she joined the New York City Relief Society. With her parents, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Luacine Savage Clark, she had moved from Washington, D. C., and was then studying French and Greek. Her grade and high school training had been received in Washington. The year following, the Clark family moved to Utah, and Marianne entered the University of Utah, majored in Ancient Languages and was graduated in 1924 with High Honors. In her senior year, she was given a Teaching Fellowship in Latin and continued teaching Latin at the University and Stewart Training School after graduation. During the time she was attending the University, she taught classes in the Sunday School and Primary organizations of the Twentieth Ward. She relates that what she has learned in the Church has been through teaching others; for as a child in Washington, D. C., there was no organized instruction for Latter-day Saint children. The only Church activities were two Sacrament meetings held each month in the home of Senator Reed Smoot. When she married in 1927, she was a member of the Ensign Stake Sunday School Board. Her husband, Ivor Sharp, was employed in the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in New York City, and Marianne lived there for the next eleven years. While making New York home, she served continuously in the Relief Society, first as literary and theological teacher and then as president of the Queens Branch Relief Society. Later, when the New York Stake was created, she served on the stake board and as a counselor to President Lorena Fletcher. She also represented the Relief Society on the National Woman's Radio Committee, which is composed of representatives of national women's organizations for the purpose of fostering better radio programs throughout the country. From her girlhood, she has been intensely interested in genealogical research and temple work and enjoyed the advantages for research offered by the New York Public Library. One year she served as chairman of the Queens Branch genealogical committee. Marianne was also a charter member of the Queens Camp Daughters of the Utah Pioneers.