Achsa Eggertsen Paxman
ACHSA E. PAXMAN is the daughter of Simon P. Eggertsen and Henrietta Nielsen Eggertsen. Her father was a school teacher for fifty-three years, a portion of that time acting as principal and superintendent of schools. He was a devoted Church worker and served as ward bishop and later as counselor in the Utah Stake presidency, which position he held for several years. Her mother was a Relief Society president and has always been sympathetic, understanding, and a source of encouragement to her husband and family. After her training at the Brigham Young University, Mrs. Paxman taught school for three years and was a stenographer one year. In 1908, she became the wife of W. Monroe Paxman. Mr. Paxman has served as ward Sunday School superintendent, member of the Utah Stake Sunday School superintendency, member of the ward bishopric and member of the Utah Stake presidency. He has also been a member of the Provo City school board. Mr. And Mrs. Paxman are the parents of five children: Elaine, Rulon, Beth, Monroe, and Doressa. Up to date, three of the children have graduated from the Brigham Young University and have filled missions. Rulon is a graduate of Stanford University and for a short time was bishop of the Palo Alto Ward. Mrs. Paxman has always been active in Church work. At twelve years of age, she became a Sunday School kindergarten teacher and later a stake Sunday School instructor in that department. She has served as Sunday School and ward organist; treasurer, class leader, and president of the Y. W. M. I. A. In two wards; stake board member and president of the Utah Stake Y. W. M. I. A. Counselor and president of the Utah Stake Relief Society for fifteen years, eleven of which she served as president. Mrs. Paxman was a member of the Utah State Legislature for two terms, Utah County Republican vice-chairman for several years, and at one time state vice-chairman of the Republican Convention. She was a delegate to the Pan-American Convention of the League of Women Voters in Baltimore in 1922, and to the National Conference of Social Work in San Francisco in 1928. She has served as a director of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers, Utah County Chapter of American Red Cross, Utah County Mental Hygiene Society, Utah County Board of Public Welfare, and the Utah Valley Hospital. At the present time she is a director of the last three named.. Mrs. Paxman is a devoted Latter-day Saint. To live according to the principles and standards of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 149
Church has always been her earnest desire, and serving the Church has been a joy. She has unusual executive ability which has enabled her to fill responsible positions with efficiency. She is a splendid homemaker and a gracious hostess. She comes to the Board richly endowed for the position to which she has been called.