Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 9 The Bent Twig
THIS lesson, the last for the current year, will consider Books III and IV of The Bent Twig of which novel the New York Times says: "It stands well forward among the best American fiction of this or any other time, for it is at once true in its portraiture of life, unusually artistic in its craftsmanship, interesting in its story and vitally worth while as a study of human nature." Sylvia has now reached young womanhood passing through the experiences of college life as well as other phases of life through which we all go. She faces the future gaily resolute, hopeful, unafraid and wise as well. Hers is a picture of life, very sweet, fresh and stimulating. During the last years of Sylvia's life at home, she had been very close to her mother and Judith. This uneventful period was brought to a close by a letter from Aunt Victoria inviting Sylvia to spend a few weeks with her at her summer home in Vermont. True to her principles, the mother left the decision to Sylvia. "Though neither of them knew it at the time, it was the last of their life together. Sylvia now appears in new surroundings, and many new people are introduced. Arnold has developed into just the type of young man one would expect from the environment in which he has lived. A friendship which is to continue through his life is begun between Sylvia and Arnold, and she tries to help him. Among the new characters are Molly Sommerville and Felix Morrison. Though a sister of Sylvia's father, Aunt Victoria is as different from her brother as day from night; in the new life of luxury in which Sylvia finds herself, she needs all the fine heritage and training of both parents to resist the insidious influences that surround her. With the same fidelity to detail that was found in the portrayal of the Marshall's home life and the coeducational university activities, there is presented the picture of the idle rich and the life they live, guided by tradition and formula. There is much that is generous, fine and beautiful, but there are ugly things, too, that are not entirely disguised. The Boston Transcript says: "Any novel founded upon such well defined theories as The Bent Twig must necessarily meet with argument. Mrs. Fisher's portrayal of character and of the ideals of American life is deeper, however, than the theories of her story and give it an interest and value which can not be overlooked." Felix Morrison, the art critic, was a much more dangerous man to be associated with Sylvia than were any of her earlier admirers. Brilliant, artistic, experienced in the ways of the world, he knew just how to win the young woman. "Never in her life had she been the recipient of flattery so precisely to her taste." He was really in love with Sylvia; but Molly, the pampered child of wealth, was in love with him. Sylvia's fine character is shown in her conduct toward Molly, when she agrees to avoid Morrison and let Molly have her way. The forest fire is a dramatic episode, though a very real experience. Through the fire and Molly's participation in it, Sylvia met Austin Page, Molly's cousin. He is, from the first introduction into the story, a real man. He stands in contrast to Felix Morrison very much as Sylvia's mother does to Aunt Victoria. One event that had direct bearing upon Sylvia's life was the visit of Judith and the engagement between Arnold and Judith. In spite of all the elegance and show of Molly's wedding, the thought 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, MARCH - 209 would intrude itself into Sylvia's mind that it was an ugly thing to have done?to marry Molly for her money. Another tragic fact that disturbed Sylvia dreadfully and precipitated a serious disagreement between Aunt Victoria and Sylvia was her discovery that Arnold was an alcoholic. She feels that she must tell Judith what she knows. Aunt Victoria objects. This is quite a side-light on the character of a woman who could not brook the intrusion of anything that might interfere with her ease or comfort. It was a manifestation of selfishness in its ugliest form. Following the wedding of Felix Morrison and Molly, Sylvia goes to Europe with Aunt Victoria. In carrying the story on to foreign soil, one detects the complete familiarity of the author with the new scenes and people. This part of the story brings to mind what The Manchester Guardian said of Mrs. Fisher: "Dorothy Canfield Fisher has won an international reputation. Her books are published in France, Italy, England, Holland and the Scandinavian countries. She is one of the few American authors who, while profoundly influenced by her European experiences and her appreciation of many things in Europe, retains a full-blooded Americanism of the best kind." Mrs. Fisher is happy in being able to apply her European knowledge to American conditions; she occupies a very remarkable position in consequence, among American authors. THE story of the life in Paris is well constructed from a literary point of view and is clearly and forcibly written. The refinement and 210 - MARCH, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 delicacy of treatment of the love of Austin Page for Sylvia is one of the finest bits of modern romance. In her conduct, Sylvia is worthy of her fine heritage. The termination of Molly's marriage came as one might expect, in tragedy. Morrison again enters Sylvia's life, but not on the same footing as of old. Perhaps the most sordid chapter in the life of Aunt Victoria is revealed in Sylvia's encounter with Professor Saunders in Paris. In spite of her love and loyalty, Sylvia sees her aunt for just what she is when she views the human derelict, the victim of her selfishness. The chapter relating the reaction of the high-souled girl to this is one of the most powerful in the book. She feels that all the beauty and joy of life has gone out of it, and then comes the thought that the only foundation upon which life can endure is integrity; without that, all achievement is in vain. The conduct of Austin Page in regard to his vast estate and his return to America profoundly touch Sylvia, but she drifts with the current and sails for Naples with her aunt, The sudden call for a return home because of the illness of her mother came with crushing violence, and Sylvia acted. Her flight from the boat and the journey home are a dramatic recital of her courage. All the glorious efforts of the heroic mother were now justified. The agony of the return and the depths of sorrow in the motherless home present a picture of moving pathos. WHILE the family life of the Marshall's was undoubtedly the product of Christian ideals, they were not conscious of this fact. While high-souled and thoroughly good, they did not believe in a personal Deity nor personal immortality. Their faith was sufficient until they met the test of a real tragedy. Under the load of grief, the father's fine mind gave way, and Sylvia was in despair. The chapter "The Outer Stars" is a beautiful confession of the truth that God lives and loves his erring children. It is a proof that the ever "onward, upward, striving soul works out its own salvation'. Sylvia emerged from her mother's garden with the knowledge that her mother lived and would ever be by her side. Her father was to get this knowledge in quite another way. It is touching that poor, old, despised cousin Parmelia should have been the one to help the brilliant, shattered mind to find itself again. It is no justification of the planchette; but. Only the knowledge of the one fact it purported to give could lead Professor Marshall back to sanity? he had not lost Barbara, his beloved wife; she, as an immortal person, would always be at his side. That thought, no matter from what source it came, would be the power to lead him back to sanity and give him courage to face life again. The tragedy of Arnold and Judith could only come in a modern novel which is a real social register. The consummation of the love story of Sylvia and Austin Page is in harmony with its development. It may not be inappropriate to close these lessons on The Bent Twig with the statement of Heloise E. Hersey: "Mrs. Fisher is now in the full maturity of her powers. It would be sheer inadequacy to characterize her as a novelist. She is that rare creature, a woman of letters. Whatever her hand finds to do for the printed page will be well done. She has a kind and generous nature, and she scatters its blessings freely upon her readers. In an age when confusion and suspicion and even hatred abound, she reveals to us a thousand points of loving contact between us and the world as it is. We may well rejoice in her generous temper, the purity of her spirit and her wholehearted belief that the things which are unseen are eternal." 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, MARCH - 211
Questions and Suggestions
1, Give your impressions of The Bent Twig as a modern novel. 2. Compare it with the other two novels studied this year. 3. Name some of the outstanding features of the book; some of the great social problems of the day. 4. Upon what do you place the greatest emphasis for Mrs. Fisher's claim to distinction?