Vol. XXVII MARCH, 1940 No. 3
EDITORIAL
White House Conference On Children In A Democracy
OF interest to all welfare organizations is the conference on child welfare held in Washington, D. C., under the sponsorship of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. This is the fourth conference in the interest of children to be sponsored by a President of the United States. Other Presidents under whose auspices these have been held were: Theodore Roosevelt in 1909, Woodrow Wilson, 1919, and Herbert Hoover, 1930. The present conference held an organizing session last spring "setting in motion machinery for correlation of studies important to children". A program of action was drafted, to the end that the best in modern thought might be put to practical use for the benefit of all of the nation's children. At sessions held January 18 to 20, reports and outlines pertinent to child welfare in eleven fields were discussed: The Family as the Threshold to Democracy, Economic Resources of Families and Communities, Housing the Family, Economic Aid to Families, Social Services for Children, Children in Minority Groups, Religion and Children in a Democracy, Health and Medical Care, Education Through the School, Child Labor and Youth Development, and Child Development Through Play and Recreation. Plans for follow-up activities which will carry the program to the country were considered. The reports presented some very important facts, and recommendations made are to be commended. A hopeful and encouraging note in regard to our nation's greatest resource, our children, was struck. The economic security of American children, deemed basic to their well-being, was given careful consideration. The greatest need for children of America in 1940 the conference stated is work for eight or nine million unemployed adults?"real work at real wages". Where assistance must be given it should be in such forms and in such a way 192 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as "to preserve and stimulate resourcefulness, keep alive hope and ambition, guard the springs to action, prevent atrophy of the powers of self-direction, and promote the prospect of restoration to a normal role in society". That the schools must educate for democracy, and that democracy must come to the aid of the schools were two of the major tenets presented in the reports on "Education Through The Schools". The reports set forth the proposition that "the public schools must acquaint the child with the responsibilities and privileges of living in a democracy". This means "that there must be education for citizenship, family life, health, leisure, for a vocation and for responsible living". The importance of proper child labor regulations, vocational preparation and guidance, as well as the need for youth employment opportunities, was put before the Conference. It was maintained that, like education, play and recreation are a requirement of everyone, that all children should be able to participate in play and recreation programs; a positive approach should be made to this phase of child welfare and sustained and systematic effort be made to assist all in their choice of play and leisure activities in addition to providing suitable recreation centers. A new set of health standards was presented. Not only has the last ten years given us worthy scientific advancement in the field of health, but there has been increased health awareness. The fields of mental hygiene, nutrition, infant and maternal mortality, and mortality from communicable diseases all show great progress which bids well for our children. The importance of religious training was stressed. The fact that approximately one-half of the children and youth of America receive no formal religious instruction seems appalling to Latter-day Saints. Teaching religion to the youth of the land was termed "an unsolved problem". The Relief Society is vitally interested in all phases of child welfare. The national conferences have held our attention and enlisted our support. Following the 1930 conference, the Organization carried into its educational program the findings and recommendations brought together by the experts in the various fields at that time. Marked gains for the children of this nation have been made since the 1930 conference, but the present conference reveals that there are still many needs to be met. We realize that the more familiar we are with the problems of childhood, and the more acquainted we become with possible solutions the better equipped we are to deal with them. Mothers can be no more profitably engaged than in promoting the well-being of the nation's children.