Gertrude Ryberg Garff
GERTRUDE RYBERG GARFF, daughter of Eric W. Ryberg and Charlotte Critchlow, was born November 2, 1912, at Hyrum, Utah. Mrs. Garff's entire schooling took place in Salt Lake City. Completing her training at the University of Utah in 1935, she graduated with a degree of Bachelor of Science, majoring in home economics; she was elected to Omicron Nu, the national honorary scholastic home economics society. Before completing her university training, Mrs. Garff served as a missionary in the Eastern States Mission from 1931 to 1933. While there she rendered faithful, intelligent service to the Church, giving special attention to radio activities. Mrs. Garff married Mark Brimhall Garff October 11, 1935, making her home in Salt Lake City. After her marriage, Mrs. Garff became actively engaged in Relief Society work in Richards Ward as teacher in the Theology department. In the late spring of 1937, Mrs. Garff accepted a call to go with her husband to Denmark to assist him in presiding over the Danish Mission. This assignment was delayed until after the birth of Mrs. Garff's first child; but in September of the same year, two months after her baby son was born, she completed the long journey to Denmark. While in Denmark, she had full charge of all Relief Society work and was advisor for all women's organizations in the mission, together with caring for the welfare of the missionaries. With her striking and pleasing personality, she won the love and sincere admiration of members, friends and missionaries. Her faith and devotion to the Church was shown by remaining. In Denmark during the beginning of the war, caring not only for her own but for the hundreds of missionaries who came to Copenhagen from other missions. This was a trying time. When the call came for her to return
156 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
home, without her husband, she had the faith to leave with her two-year-old son on a small freighter. The voyage was made during bad weather, sixteen days being required to cross the water. Mrs. Garff's training and experience qualify her for the responsible position to which she is now called as a member of the Relief Society General Board.