The Sunny Side of the Hill By Lella Marler Hoggan
OPEN THE WINDOWS
"The day will bring some lovely thing," I say it over each new dawn: "Some gay, adventurous thing to hold Against my heart when it is gone,"
And so I rise, and go to meet The day with wings upon my feet. —Grace Noll Crowell.*
HEAVEN is all around us here and now. Life is waiting each new day to greet us with gifts from every port of happiness. Music and laughter and wisdom come sparkling into our homes from the ends of the earth. In such a joyous world, why is it, we ask, that every one is not happy? Is there some secret formula that must be learned before a person can partake of this greatly desired blessing? Emerson turned his clouds inside out to show the silver linings, and Marden believed that a cheerful heart could make its own blue skies. Heaven does not discriminate between the just and the unjust in sending the sunshine and the shower. Happiness is not something that can be purchased with a coin and held fast in our two hands. Lincoln said that most of us are about as happy as we make up our minds to be. And we are assured by those who should know, that anyone who has the desire can learn the art of being glad. Each person defines happiness differently: To the child it is entertainment; to youth it is love; to age it is wisdom. Some persons tell us that security and achievement will bring us the desired blessing. Others declare that self-realization, living in harmony with one's highest ideals, will make for permanent satisfaction; while there are those who believe that one must attune his life to the purposes of the divine will if he would have peace of mind and lasting joy. In our search for happiness we must not forget the importance of keeping well. The old Greek ideal was to possess "a sound mind in a sound body". With such a heritage, it would not be difficult to reach the goal of our desire. Science has established the fact that bodily conditions affect mental functionings, and that bad emotions produce chemical changes in the body detrimental to life and health. Fear, anger, jealousy, every vicious emotion, has a bad effect on the system. While love, mirth, confidence, and all good emotions, tend to promote health and prolong life. Every condition that saps our energy or uses up our vitality needlessly is a menace to health and happiness and even to life itself. If we expect to gain permanent satisfaction from our efforts and to live prolonged, peaceful and happy lives, we must keep fit physically and mentally. Undesirable emotions may be controlled by the simple process of letting the good neutralize the bad. Two opposing emotions cannot rule the heart at the same time. It is our privilege to choose which ones we shall entertain. The pattern of our dreams, aye, our very destiny, depends upon this choice. For faith will banish fear; love will transmute hatred into brotherly kindness; courage will redeem cowardice, and mirth will laugh disaster out of countenance. IF we find that we are out of harmony with life, that we are at cross-purposes with ourselves, that we have missed the mark and lost the way, had we not better re-route our course? Why not try traveling on the sunny side of the hill for awhile. It is surprising what a transformation a little sunshine can make in a life. Let us open the windows wide, that the warmth and beauty of the sun's health-giving rays may enter. Also, let us open the windows of the soul, sweep down the cobwebs of discouragement and clear away the litter of distrust and suspicion. There are numberless ways of eliminating care and of bringing sunshine into the heart. Mirth and laughter are curative measures. If the reading of humorous books found a place on everyone's program, there would be fewer invalids and less sorrow. The Scriptures are an unfailing source of peace and comfort. Beautiful poetry should enrich the lives of young and old. Hymns and old sweet songs will save the dreariest day. Sing each one you select clear through, as if you were performing for an unseen listener. Possibly you will be. An occasional picture show, if carefully selected, is a most effective tonic. And no experience is more heartening and altogether more delightful for those needing a lift, than regular, earnest participation in the service of God and humanity. Whatever our trial may be, we need the comfort and help that comes from wholesome thinking and a conscience at peace with God and man. We need the warmth of spiritual. Sunshine; for sunshine heals the body, cheers the heart, and sweetens the soul. Everyone the world around is searching for happiness. And yet, what reception do we accord her when Joy comes knocking at our door? Do we give her a warm welcome and offer her the hospitality of our home, or does she find our shades drawn and our doors closed fast against her admittance? Have we failed to realize that she will not enter unless she is invited? After all; Joy is a lady—not a housebreaker. So if we would have the pleasure of her society we must receive her graciously. How often we close the door of happiness in our own faces. We isolate ourselves from our fellows and then wonder why we are alone and lonely. We build up a wall. Between ourselves and life and then lament because we are left outside. We have not learned to pay the price of happiness. We sometimes forget that we must give as well as receive, and that every position carries with it not only privileges and blessings but also responsibilities and obligations. Funds cannot be drawn from the bank unless we have first made a deposit. If we fail to sow the seed, nature will be unable to produce a harvest for us. We carry out of life no greater measure of joy than we bring to it. It is up to us to make today's effort pay for the fulfillment of tomorrow's dream. We are always putting off the quest for joy. Tomorrow or next week, we tell ourselves, we shall do the thing that will bring us happiness. After the rush is over, next year perhaps, we shall satisfy our heart's longing. But there are always numberless obligations nudging us, hurrying us on, motioning to us from around the corner. So we go along with the crowd, assuring ourselves that later on we shall have leisure to spare. We do not realize that we are living our lives right now. We must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 189 take our joy as we go, if we would ever have it. Life doesn't wait for the ideal condition to materialize. She leaves it to us to glorify the little common things of every day, that out of them we shall garner the deep satisfactions, the eternal joys that will halo all the years. Truth and beauty are manifesting themselves all around us. Let us tune in to the harmonies of life. Let us open our hearts to the happiness that each day holds for us, open the windows of our soul that heaven's gracious blessings may enter.
*Used by special permission of Harper & Brothers publishers. From Songs for Courage.
SPRINGTIME
The earth awakes from quiet rest and sleep, And whitened valleys, hills, and rolling plains Emerge from winter's shroud to bloom again. The air is filled with song of birds that keep Their promise of return. The bees now wing Their way across the meadows. One by one New forms of life unfolding to the sun Have brought about the glories of the spring.
Can man not find the answer to his life In nature's blooming season now at hand, And free his days from forceful rush and strife And walk serenely to the better land? The light of reason cannot fail to see There is no death. Spring comes eternally.