Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 9 Charity
"Charity never faileth."?I Cor. 13:8.
CHARITY is exalted as the highest attainment of the Christian life by the Apostle Paul. It is not easy to find one word which adequately represents what he meant by the word charity. It is more than almsgiving. One may be generous to the poor and lack charity. It is greater than benevolence. Many a person is benevolent, willing to give to the poor, full of plans for the benefit of others, yet utterly deficient in that religious sense which accompanies the Christian grace of charity. While the word love is most nearly identified with it in meaning, love may be a form of human affection in which self and passion are mixed. Christian charity is love in its full meaning, that love wherein we are freed from selfness. It must be distinguished from almsgiving, benevolence, passion or sentiment, while at the same time something of each of these is still contained in it. It is love which contemplates a likeness to the Master. It encompasses the desire to give, whether alms or self, a willingness to sacrifice. It involves a desire to bless. It seeks happiness for the one loved. It strives to make men good and Godlike, to transform this earth into a place where men cease to quarrel, to envy, to slander and retaliate but rather to live in peace and harmony. The Master exercised charity. He desired the best for all of his Father's children. He worked, with no thought of self, for the well-being of the whole man?body, soul and spirit. President Joseph F. Smith says: "Charity, or love, is the greatest principle in existence. If we can lend a helping hand to the oppressed, if we can aid those who are despondent and in sorrow, if we can uplift and ameliorate the condition of mankind, it is our mission to do it; it is an essential part of our religion." "Charity Never Faileth" is the banner around which the entire Relief Society program is planned. The ideal was contained in the original instructions given by the Prophet to this organization. Louise Y. Robison in addressing the Relief Society Conference, April, 1936, said: "Sisters of the Relief Society, you have been called by men holding the Priesthood not only to carry your own responsibilities, your own load, but you have been considered strong enough to help carry the load of those who are overburdened... Not merely to send a basket, but to make them one of you." True charity can be cultivated: First, by doing acts which love demands. "Act with a cold heart if we have not a warm one; it will grow warmer while we act." Second, it may be cultivated by contemplating the love of God. As we acquire the 208 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE certainty that our Father's love is ours, it becomes easier to be generous, tolerant, benevolent; human wrongs are minimized, injuries forgiven, and men seem more worth loving. "True charity refuses to see small faults, it bears and forbears, it makes large allowances, it understands by sympathy, it tolerates even intolerance. It constantly acts for the complete well-being of mankind." Charity never faileth.
Discussion
It is suggested that the sisters memorize I Cor, 13:1-13.