Progress Under the Direction of the Priesthood By Marianne C. Sharp
THE Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is different from every other woman's organization in the world; for it was organized at the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith who stands at the head of this the Last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The great inspirational and educational influence which this society has wielded, and does wield over its members, would be impossible had it not continued to be guided and advised by the Priesthood of God. It is the oldest auxiliary of the Church, and on March 17 of this year will celebrate its ninety-eighth birthday. Before its organization in Nauvoo, the women of the Church had not functioned as an entity, although in Kirtland they had banded together to aid in building the Kirtland Temple. By 1842, however, many of the sisters in Nauvoo desired a society. They drew up some by-laws which they showed to the Prophet. He told them he had been considering the matter of an organization for them for some time and that his plans were much greater than any they had in mind at that time. On March 17 he called together a few women and instituted the Relief Society. From that time on, the Relief Society, primarily an organization for service, has functioned under the direction of the Priesthood, which embodies in itself the ultimate in service. About six weeks after its organization, the Prophet gave these directions, among others, to the sisters: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth."* How wonderfully that prophecy is being fulfilled! How grateful are we, more than tongue can express, for the great progression which the turning of the key in our behalf has resulted in for women.
DUE to the persecutions and scattering of the Saints following the martyrdom of the Prophet and the subsequent journey West, the Relief Society, as such, was inactive for nearly ten years. In 1853, however, a beginning in Utah was made to form organizations in the wards, but not until after the Johnston Army incident were permanent organizations established. The Priesthood again came forward in its behalf in 1866 when President Brigham Young recommended that there be Relief Society organizations in all the wards and branches. He gave to Eliza R. Snow, that wonderful *History of the Church, Joseph Smith, Vol. IV, page 607. woman whom the Prophet Joseph once called "our well-known and talented poetess", the mission of assisting the bishops in this great organizing work. Again in 1877, President Young directed the further growth and expansion of the Relief Society when he instituted the stake work in Weber Stake. Later, at the direction of President John Taylor, Eliza R. Snow was nominated to be the president of all the Relief Societies, which was the beginning of the General Board movement. Thus, we see, the stages of our growth have been directed by the Priesthood. When the Prophet Joseph "exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in the faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead the people," he gave the rule by which all the women of our Church should live. There is greatest joy in that home in which the wife honors the Priesthood held by her husband and respects his judgment in righteousness. There is greater progress in that ward in which the Relief Society president respects and obeys the judgment of her bishop, than in one in which there may not be full obedience. This same principle holds true for the Church as a whole. The Church goes forward the farthest and carries out the will of the Lord most completely when the General Relief Society (and the other auxiliaries as well) gives full and unstinting obedience to the General Authorities of the Church. In accordance with these instructions, given nearly a hundred years ago, but still bearing their original force, for they are true and truth does not change, the Relief Society stands ready and anxious from its smallest unit to its entire membership to heed and obey any request given by those in authority in the Church. Probably the last formal instructions are those contained in a letter from the First Presidency dated September 30, 1937. In this letter, thanks and appreciation are extended to the Relief Society as a whole for its efforts in the Church Security Program, but it is urged that better teamwork be used within each ward that the great objective may be realized of helping each individual family to help itself. In these the last days, concerning which so many prophecies have been uttered, none of us knows what dark and trying times may be ahead; but whatever may come, let us remember these words of our Prophet to us, "Though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and the hands hang down, we must not retrace our steps; there must be decision of character, aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us." May the Relief Society ever merit through its continued obedience to authority these blessings of heaven; may it always faithfully perform its allotted part in the great plan of salvation.