Work and Business By Leda T. Jensen
"The first sure symptom of a mind in health Is rest of heart, and pleasure felt at home."
TO build a successful superstructure upon its foundation, the corner-stone of which is service, Relief Society must always incorporate in its program practical phases of living which will contribute to well rounded, integrated lives of the women of the Church. At the meeting of the Nauvoo Relief Society, September 2, 1843, it was proposed that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer as they did last winter". At the October 14th meeting it was proposed "that a sewing society be appointed that garments and bed coverings might be made and given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness". These were the initial movements of the Society in the interest of sewing for those in need, known today as Work and Business meetings. Sewing was the first concrete activity of the Relief Society, a practical means of following the advice of the Prophet when he outlined among other objectives "looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and administering to their wants". From the beginning until now, the program has grown and expanded to meet all the objectives outlined for the Society. We have fine courses of study, each one teaching us how to serve. The activities of Work and Business day give us opportunities to serve. When the point was reached in the wards that the supply of goods for the needy exceeded the demand, then members of the Relief Society were asked to turn their attention to the needs in their own homes and to strive to become more skillful, more efficient homemakers. Inventions, factory production and labor-saving devices have taken from the home many activities of pioneer life, but as long as family life exists, woman will be the homemaker. As long as we eat food, wear clothing, and have homes as places of shelter, someone will have to see that food is produced or purchased and prepared in the home, that clothing is made in the home or purchased ready-to-wear, and that after one fashion or another the home is furnished and decorated. In a rapidly changing world, which is making tremendous inroads upon the sphere of the family and the home, it is imperative that the homemaker be taught to recognize her position in the home and to apply all the knowledge she may gain concerning wiser management and better living to her home and family. It is one thing to obey the great commandment given man "to multiply and replenish the earth". It is quite another matter to wisely care for the children given us by our Heavenly Father. Many people have the idea that because woman is the natural mother of the race, that by nature also she knows all that is necessary to care for and train her children. Nothing could be further from the truth. Not instinct but 178 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE training enables us to keep our families well by proper feeding and health habits, to keep them properly and attractively clothed through a knowledge of clothing principles and the economic factors involved, and to keep them comfortable and happy in a well-cared-for, attractive home. No amount of personal development in things cultural will relieve us of those practical duties necessary for happy home life. "The Relief Society has kept in step with the march of progress, heeding the call for adjustment to new conditions, and meeting the needs of an expanding program. We must hold fast to the things which have been tried by experience and found valuable, and we must be ready to accept new ideas and principles which changing conditions make necessary. This is the law of development and advancement." AFTER nearly one hundred years, the Relief Society organization feels sure that on Work and Business day mothers and daughters of Zion may taste the sweetness of service through that part of the program devoted to work for the needy, and may increase their knowledge of what to do and how to do to make their homes more livable and to spend more wisely the household budget. No one should sit idly by because of lack of desire or ability to do. Relief Society should continue to afford opportunities for its members to learn to quilt, sew, knit, crochet, and to participate in other forms of handicraft. Many psychologists agree that women should cultivate and practice diversional forms of activity, preferably handicraft, to counteract the monotony and strain of occupational and family life. The use of small muscles involved in handicraft is important in a well-rounded program of recreation and training for leisure time. If normal, healthy, useful citizens of tomorrow are to come from the homes of today, mothers must train their children in the practical as well as the cultural values of life. Schools and special groups may help, but the home is the natural laboratory where most of our habits and attitudes are formed, and the wise, teachable, well prepared mother may do more than anyone else to assist her children along the way to abundant living. These are the aims of Work and Business. We must keep before us the objectives of this day to appreciate the program from its beginning to its present widening and expanding form. Let us try to catch the vision so that 1942 will find us with the right attitude toward this phase of the work and with a desire to participate in whatever program is offered, believing that all phases of the Relief Society program, if properly understood and incorporated in our lives, will contribute to a well-integrated personality and a more abundant life.
Relief Society As A Community Builder By President Amy Brown Lyman
WOMEN have always been great and important factors in community building. Pioneer women, for example, with their indomitable courage and determination, worked side by side with their husbands and sons in blazing trails, in founding and developing new settlements and in extending the borders of civilization. Women everywhere are leaders in helping to inaugurate movements and to establish institutions and agencies for the benefit of humanity. History is replete with the struggle and achievement of brave and courageous women. Relief Society women from the beginning have been public-spirited and social-minded. Their influence has been felt in frontier pioneering and in all phases of progressive effort, both in rural and urban communities. While their organization was founded primarily for philanthropic and charitable purposes, one of the early supplementary assignments appropriately given to them was "to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community". Accordingly, wherever branches of the Church have been located, Relief Society women have been alert to community needs and active participants in community activities and development. Like workers in other family welfare agencies, Relief Society women early discovered for themselves that successful family welfare work depends in large measure upon the social and economic resources available in the community. This knowledge, fortified by study and research, gives them an understanding of the inter-dependence of individual and community betterment, broadening their interest in the community and helping them to be intelligent, helpful, cooperative citizens. They realize that corrective work for individuals often points to the need for preventive measures for the benefit of the whole community. For example, surgical operations emphasize the need for hospital facilities readily available to the community; a case or two of typhoid fever is often a signal that something must be done about the water supply in order to prevent an epidemic; and the lack of remunerative employment for heads of families arouses the interest of community-minded individuals in employment problems. Thus, Relief Society women are interested in the home, the school, the church; in playgrounds and recreation work; in hospitals, clinics and health centers; in home and community economics. THROUGHOUT the many years since its organization, the Relief Society has carried forward a continuous and varied program in community betterment and welfare. Notable among early activities were: the suffrage movement for the purpose of giving woman a voice in public affairs; seri-culture, established in the interest of home industry 180 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and employment; grain-storing against need; women's cooperative stores to facilitate the exchange of domestic commodities; health work, including courses in nursing and obstetrics and the establishment of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake City (the first L. D. S. Hospital and the second in the state of Utah); erection of Relief Society halls for organization meetings and socials; temperance and peace education. Among the later movements which have found expression in actual service to the community are: definite studies in community organization and resources; civic-pride campaigns; and a continuation of health work with emphasis on public health and sanitation, child health and maternal and infant care, coordinated in most communities with newly developed state and federal programs. Deeply interested in maternal and child welfare, the organization cooperated whole-heartedly with state and federal agencies, first under provisions of the former Sheppard-Towner Act, and later of the present Social Security Act. A few typical, specific examples of Relief Society activity in the interest of public health are cited: In one locality, through the efforts of Relief Society women, a pure water supply was obtained for the entire community; in several counties Relief Society women cooperated financially with other agencies in supporting in each of their respective counties a public health nurse or a clinic for dental care; in another area, drinking fountains were placed in ten public school buildings by the Relief Societies. In one state the Society assisted in the establishment of 150 health centers and four county health units, in many instances contributing funds for the work. Cabinets and chests, well equipped with articles for loan or rental, primarily for maternity cases, were set up in practically all of the ward or stake Relief Societies; a first-class maternity hospital established in one stake in 1924 is still being operated successfully. Funds for the health work are derived chiefly from the interest on a half-million dollar trust fund owned jointly by the local Societies and built up over many years by the actual production or gleaning of wheat by Relief Society women. Through special civic-pride campaigns much has been accomplished along public health lines, general sanitation, and community beautification. An important and constructive piece of work in which Relief Society played an important part was the establishment in Utah of the State Training School for the Feebleminded. In a course of study on Mental Hygiene the care and protection of unfortunate children who never grow up was one of the subjects considered. Through this study and research and through actual contact with afflicted homes, Relief Society women became aware of the pressing need for an institution for care of the feeble-minded. As a result, they aroused community interest, circulated petitions to the legislature and were largely instrumental in the establishment of this state institution. With the promotion of community health, social welfare, and education as its objective, the Relief Society has established one fund to stimulate creative writing, and six educational loan funds—two in the field of nursing, three in the interest of social service, and one for higher education for women. These varied activities for the betterment of the community are landmarks by the way against a background of the regular fundamental functions of the organization in family welfare, education and spiritual development for its individual members. The achievements of Relief Society women, both in public life and in the home, stand today as a monument to the power of their faith and service and as a challenge to the coming generations.
SPRING IS HERE