My Relief Society Tapestry By Mary Grant Judd
HAVE you ever stood in some museum before a particularly fine example of old tapestry and marveled at the patience, skill and artistry responsible for the finished piece? That is the way I feel as I contemplate the history and accomplishments of the National Woman's Relief Society, which in 1942 will celebrate its one-hundredth anniversary. I seem to see, in colors that will never fade, a beautiful work of art which countless hands have taken one hundred years to create. My Relief Society tapestry is very real to me, and I hope it will become real to you, so that with the General Board you will look eagerly forward toward being a participant in the 1942 centennial observance. Let me tell you a little of the fascinating history of "hand-woven pictured cloth", as tapestry is technically spoken of, before I show you my Relief Society tapestry. In the time of the Renaissance, homes were not warm nests with central heating plants as they are today. They were great affairs, stone inside as well as out, and heated no more than an open fire can heat. The winter wind whistled insinuatingly over the shoulders of the vassals who sat against the walls; it whined through the cracks of doors as it blew fresh from snowy reaches upon the lords of the great halls as they reclined in their hours of ease. Some warm and cozy protector was needed; something of gay color, of pictorial interest was desired, even demanded. And so, to answer this need, the big hanging tapestry was invented. Huge looms were constructed, and with great courage craftsmen inaugurated an art whose future importance they could not possibly foresee. Artists were pressed into service who painted beautifully colored canvases for weavers to translate into pictures made of wool and silk and metallic thread. Old tapestry colors were like richest tints of autumn, and the stories they depicted were tender, appealing, human. Now there was warmth and beauty in the dwellings. Weaving of tapestries became so important that in the middle ages there was never a big town that did not have as its two most imposing buildings the cathedral and the cloth house. Almost as much labor and taste were expended on the one as on the other. Incredible pains were taken to see that material and workmanship were of the best. No one was allowed to work on a tapestry
TAPESTRY PICTURE
THE tapestry pictured on the opposite page was recently completed by Margaret Lyman Schreiner, daughter of Elder Richard R. Lyman and President Amy Brown Lyman. It is 3x3½ feet in size and is a reproduction of a Gothic tapestry done in heroic size which now hangs in the Cluny museum in Paris. In this comparatively small piece there are 158,400 stitches,
166 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
who had not first served an apprenticeship of at least fifteen years, and the pieces were so large that sometimes as high as eighty weavers would work on one piece. Ten thousand different tints were at their disposal, which had taken two years to dye before the actual work commenced. Like the first making of tapestry, it was to answer a definite need to make life a brighter, happier place that the Relief Society was called into being by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Eliza R. Snow, first secretary and second president of the Organization, wrote: "The first winter after the Society was organized was exceedingly cold and severe. Many, in consequence of exposure and hardship in their expulsion from the state of Missouri and the unhealthiness of the climate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sickness to destitution, and had it not been for the timely aid of the Female Relief Society, would have suffered very much, and probably some would have perished."
THE weave of tapestry is a very simple one and done entirely by hand. The first step is to set out on a loom, to the desired width of the fabric, a series of parallel threads called the warp. This makes the background, and so the threads must be of sturdy material such as wool, linen, or cotton. The weft threads, of brightly colored wool, silk or even shining gold metallic thread, form the pattern and are thrown under and over with unvarying regularity. To me, it is the visiting teachers and the many other devoted members of our organization who go quietly and deftly about helping their fellow men, with no thought of praise or honor to themselves, who have set the warp of our Relief Society tapestry. Before being qualified to commence the work, they have served an apprenticeship to Life, the great teacher, and the apprentice shop has been their own homes. Just as the marvelous old tapestries could not have been created without their supporting looms, so we depend upon the direction of the Priesthood, which stands, and always has, ready to support us in our efforts. The story of our Relief Society tapestry, which the weft threads form, is depicted in varying hues, and many characters stand out against historical backgrounds. The figure of Emma Smith comes first, surrounded by her officers and the other women who constituted the charter members of the Organization. A lovely, meandering river is woven into this part of the tapestry; homes surrounded by gardens and vineyards are to be seen, and the fabric of the women's dresses shows threads of silk intermingled with the wool. In the distance, the towers of a half completed temple rise; but dark clouds partly obstruct our view of the edifice, and throughout the whole scene sombre shades predominate, suggesting that the greatest tragedy the Church has known stalked in the wake of the organization of the Relief Society. In the person of Eliza R. Snow, as true a saint as any that ever graced a medieval pattern, our story centers next. In her hand she holds the original and invaluable records of the Relief Society which she has carefully guarded and preserved and brought across the western desert. The Woman's Exponent, forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, is to be seen. Sage brush, crude log cabins, Indian faces, and the tramping feet of Johnston's Army make the background; and there is a primitive looking engine which signifies the coming of the railroad. Intermingled with all these are to be seen the old Deseret Hospital and granaries which already are being stored against a future need. Emma Smith's face is no longer to be seen, but two of the original group, Bathsheba W. Smith and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, stand beside Eliza R. Snow. Seven other women, Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards, M. Isabella Horne, Emmeline B. Wells, Elizabeth Howard, Phoebe Woodruff and Sarah M. Kimball complete the group. And are those silken threads mingled with the homespun of their dresses? Yes, for under Eliza R. Snow's administration, the manufacture of silk was started in the valley. Zina D. H. Young, in very deed a prophetess and ministering angel, is the next prominent figure in the tapestry, and the colors now brighten. When Bathsheba W. Smith comes upon the scene, all is colorful and lovely. Emmeline B. Wells, a dainty dresden figure yet with rare intelligence and the moral strength of tempered steel, rightfully holds a position of unusual prominence.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 167
She is followed by Clarissa S. Williams whose spirituality and affability radiate from her. Then we see our own dear Louise Yates Robison whose life is an open book to all, whose activities as president need not be enlarged upon here. And now under the guidance of Amy Brown Lyman new scenes of interest and beauty will be woven into the Relief Society tapestry.
WE look forward to 1942 with eagerness and enthusiasm. A glorious centennial awaits us. Before us will be hung a tapestry of great worth, one whose weaving has required the skill and talents of earth's noble women. As we reverently view it, the glorious patterns of the past will call forth our sincere admiration and appreciation. The strength and beauty which is ours because of one hundred years of worthy endeavor will arouse our deepest gratitude and give us courage to meet whatever tomorrow may bring. With faces set resolutely toward the future, a new determination will come to us to do our part in an organization which will wield an ever increasing influence for good. The occasion should be a rich experience in the life of every member, stimulating her to go forward and create for her successors patterns of enduring worth.