Theology and Testimony DEPARTMENT
Lesson 9 Paul's Lasting Influence
HELPFUL REFERENCES
F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, pp. 1-7. Cardinal Gibbons, Our Christian Heritage, ch. XXXI. C. E. Macartney, Of Them He Chose Twelve, pp. 156-165. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, ch. XXXIV.
PAUL'S SERVICE TO CHRISTIANITY.?It would be almost impossible to adequately estimate. Paul's services to the cause of Christianity. Dean Farrar has said, "In truth it is hardly possible to exaggerate the extent, the permanence, the vast importance, of those services which were rendered to Christianity by Paul of Tarsus." Paul was an indefatigable worker and accomplished almost impossible tasks. Anyone who will take the trouble to check over his work on the four main missionary journeys will be convinced of that. And it should be kept in mind that we have only a very imperfect record of his life and labors. Paul's intelligence and industry were among the chief factors in the sudden spread of Christianity in the ancient Mediterranean world. It is quite likely that young John Mark deserted Paul and Barnabas on their first missionary journey because they were leading too stiff a pace. There may have been other reasons, too, but that was probably the foremost. The Apostle to the Gentiles preached in a few short years from Jerusalem to Illyricum, from Illyricum to Rome, and possibly even to Spain and Britain. He accounted the cause sufficiently worthy to be "in jeopardy: every hour". (I Cor. 15:30) Part of his second letter to the Corinthians reveals the lengths to which he was willing to go for Christianity's sake. "Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; in journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; in weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness." (II Cor. 11:23-27) Few modern missionaries have an adequate conception of the vast labors and suffering endured by Paul in order 204 - MARCH, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 that the Gentiles might hear the Gospel. Paul also contributed to Christianity some of its greatest literature. In fact, the whole world is indebted to Paul "for its richest treasures of poetry and eloquence, of moral wisdom and spiritual consolation". (Farrar) It is to the great Apostle of the Gentiles that Christianity owes the first systematic treatment of the connection beween the ancient law and that of Christ. Paul understood that the Gospel was in the world before the Law of Moses was given, but few persons not of our faith do. He, next to the Christ, perhaps did more to emancipate the early Christians from the bonds of Jewish legalism than any other man. Paul was the "Apostle of freedom, of culture, of the understanding". Farrar beautifully points out that "whenever the faith of Christ has been most dimmed in the hearts of men, whenever its pure fires have seemed in greatest danger of being stifled, as in the fifteenth century? under the dead ashes of sensuality, or quenched, as in the eighteenth century, by the chilling blasts of skepticism, it is mostly by the influence of his writings that religious life has been revived." It was the influence of Paul in shattering the legalistic doctrines of the Jews that "worked once more in the soul of Luther to burst the gates of brass, and break the bars of iron asunder with which the Papacy had imprisoned for so many centuries the souls which God made free". The contributions of Paul in bringing light, liberty and freedom into the world during the Reformation have not been adequately appreciated. These in turn helped make it possible for the Gospel to be restored in our own era. And still Paul's work "goes marching on". PAUL'S INFLUENCE ON SLAVERY ?It is a surprising fact that there is still much slavery in the world. Nevertheless, Christianity can be credited with bringing about a great advance. The ancient Pagan world, as Cardinal Gibbons pointed out, extolled the virtues of courage, magnanimity, fortitude and self-reliance as the ideal of human perfection. "But," says the Cardinal, "poverty of spirit, humility and meekness under contempt, patience and resignation under affronts, forgiveness of injuries and love of enemies, a spirit of obedience and longsuffering, were despised by them as servile virtues, or rather as no virtues at all, but the base characteristics of an enslaved and ignoble caste." The early Church came immediately to grips with the problem of human slavery. However, it was unable to do much at the time toward abolishing the practice. Even before the rise of Christianity, the more humane Jewish rabbis taught that slaves should be treated kindly. The Essenes and some other sects of extremists had done away with slaves. However, the usual Jewish practice condoned the use of foreign slaves and even Israelitish slaves. Many Jews were guilty of scourging and torturing slaves. With all these practices we can assume Paul was familiar. What was his attitude toward slavery? Some persons have thought that he should have openly advocated the abolishment of the practice. It is probable that in his heart he was in favor of freeing all men. But to have openly advocated the freeing of slaves would have been to cut down his influence and may have led to an early grave. It is more than likely that he thought the easiest way to do away with the age-old practice was to preach the Gospel and let Christian democracy gradually settle the problem. The letter to Philemon reveals Paul's method of dealing with a practical situation. It appears that Paul had converted Onesimus, a runaway slave, who, by a coincidence, belonged to one of his fine friends, Philemon, a good church member. Onesimus had attended Paul faithfully and was beloved of him. But there was a duty to Philemon. Paul sends the slave back to his former master with the plea that he receive him kindly "Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself." (Philemon 16, 17) These are noble words, and many slaves through the centuries can count their release to them. We may quote Cardinal Gibbons in reference to Paul: "The Apostle of the Gentiles frequently comforts the Christian slave by reminding him of the real source of moral grandeur. He tells him that true dignity does not depend on the accident of birth, or wealth, or civil freedom, or social station, but that virtue is the sole standard of moral excellence in the sight of God, as well as the sole test of future retribution. He informs the slave that he has a soul as well as Caesar; that he is the child of God by adoption, the brother of Christ... And that he has equal privileges with the freeman to a participation in the Divine Spirit. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, MARCH - 205 'For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free." (I Cor. 12:13) "In the family of Christ to which they belong "Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all" " (Col. 3:11) In Ephesians 6:5-9 Paul teaches slave and master their respective duties, "prescribing laws that exercised a salutary restraint on the authority of the one, and sanctified the obedience of the other." We can justly say that Paul's method of dealing with the slave question has generally guided honorable men throughout the centuries. It has been pointed out by some writers that the little Epistle to Philemon has alone contributed more to alleviate the sufferings of humanity than all of the moral treatises of the most benevolent Pagan philosophers. THE INFLUENCE OF PAUL ON ART.?Mankind would be infinitely poorer without art. In the Western world from the fourth to the sixteenth centuries art was developed primarily in the service of Christianity. One has only to visit the great art galleries of the world, particularly in Europe, to observe how greatly the Christian religion has been the inspiration of great artists. Nor are paintings and sculpture the only evidence of this. Great churches and cathedrals have been designed and built by master architects and craftsmen whose only desire was to give the best of their genius in the service of religion. The work of Christ and the Apostles has 206 - MARCH, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 furnished the theme of a vast amount of noble art. Of the Apostles, Paul and Peter have been especially popular as subjects. Peter generally represents converted Jews and Paul the Gentiles; together they are supposed to represent the Church Universal. There are not many legends connected with the Apostle to the Gentiles, but the stories told in the Acts have furnished numerous subjects for art work. Very often Paul and Peter are represented in the same picture, and it becomes necessary to know how they may be distinguished. Paul is usually represented as being small in stature, with bright, sparkling eyes, high forehead and aquiline nose. His hair and long flowing beard are brown in color. When represented with the Savior or the Virgin, Paul and Peter are placed on each side of them. Usually they are dressed about alike. The great influence of Paul's life merits the high place that he has found as a subject in the realm of art. PAUL THE MAN.?Thousands of men who have been little interested in Christianity?or any other religion for that matter?have nevertheless been impressed by Paul as a man among men. We may sum up his virtues as follows: (1) He had a deep appreciation of the dignity of human nature. As Macartney says, "This is always a mark of a great soul. Paul showed his high thought of the worth and dignity of man by a high regard for himself. I have always counted it a fortunate thing that he who is the great teacher as to the sinfulness of man and the corruption of human nature was no mealy-mouthed weakling, but the manliest man that ever lived." (2) He, like his great Master, had an intense love for man. This was a gradually developed characteristic. (3) He had a distinctly heroic element in his make-up. He was, as someone has said, "Heroic battler, noble wrestler for Christ!" Macartney points out that there were three elements in Paul's triumph: 1. His aim and purposes did not end with self. 2. God had a purpose to work out in his life. 3. His fellowship with Christ was so close that he could make bold to say that Christ suffered in him. (4) He had the gift for making strong friendships. His heart was a large one that burned for those who were lost and in deep affliction. Paul's place in history is forever secure.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Comment on Paul's desire to work. How would he measure up with President Heber J. Grant's ideals?
2. Point out and comment on some of Paul's literary masterpieces.
3. Let a member of the class interested in art briefly discuss Christian art.
4. Point out some of Paul's heroic deeds.
5. What qualities of Paul appeal most to you? Illustrate.
6. What great Mormon missionaries remind you most of Paul?