Long Remembered Words By Vesta P. Crawford
"I now declare this Society organized... "—Joseph Smith.
IT has been said that a word is like a seed, for when a word is spoken it becomes the nucleus of a chain of thought. And the thoughts, in turn, grow actively and develop into a tree of many branches. Ninety-eight years ago, in Nauvoo, Illinois, the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke to the women of the Church in words that glow with a greater light each returning year. The women answered the Prophet's call with willing words that very soon grew into service that has increased and broadened in scope until today there are thousands of women, in many nations, who are grateful for the long remembered words—the words that were spoken at the organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. The farm woman in southern Utah, the busy wife on a ranch in Idaho, the alert mother in California, the sincere woman in a branch organization in Tonga or Alaska, women in America and across the sea find the message of the Relief Society a vital factor in making life broader and better. To the woman at home among her relatives and friends, and to the woman living in a great city, far away from her loved ones, the Relief Society is a uniting force, welding its membership together in bonds of fellowship for the accomplishment of personal growth and for service to those who need material and spiritual help. There is nowhere a Latter-day Saint woman who is not interested in recalling once more the events of that March day nearly a hundred years ago when the pioneer women of the Church were organized into the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo".
March 17, 1842; It is early spring, almost planting time in the prairie lands. The city of Nauvoo lies bathed in sunlight, its slopes rising above the great Mississippi River in a series of greening terraces. Clumps of willows and groves of trees are not yet in leaf, but the buds are green, and sap pushes its way through the branches. A few early flowers glow in the grassy meadows near the river. "Nauvoo the Beautiful" is only three years old; yet it is a thriving city, well planned, well built, with sturdy two-story houses of brick and frame, with churches and stores, with blacksmith shops and shoe shops, and a busy harbor at the river's bend, where boats from down the great river come to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World. The shining walls of a temple rise from the gentle slopes of Mulholland Street. Nauvoo in western Illinois, Nauvoo looking west toward the far frontier, Nauvoo, itself a pioneer town, seems isolated from the world. And yet it is a part of the new America—the strong, new America reaching out to the West. This year of 1842 is a time when many groups of people in many places look upon a new era wherein the corridors of the future seem to
160 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be lighted with the lamps of progress. John Tyler, an able and independent Whig from Virginia, is President of the United States. It is two years before Morse's electric telegraph will flash across the country that wonderful message—"What. Hath God Wrought!" It is three years before the annexation of Texas to the Union. It is the year of the establishment of the boundary line between the United States and Canada. "Oregon" and "California" are magic words, although, as yet, no great wagon trains have passed beyond the Rockies. About one hundred miles to the southeast of Nauvoo, in Springfield, the state capital, lives the "Little Giant", Stephen A. Douglas, twenty-nine. Years old, a friend of the Mormons, and the foremost orator in Illinois. In the same. Town, Abraham Lincoln, a rising young lawyer who has served two terms in the state legislature, is looking forward to his marriage with Mary Todd. 1842 in Nauvoo, Illinois! Hundreds of missionaries have been sent out "into the field" to carry the Gospel message; the baptismal font in the temple has been completed; the streets of Nauvoo are lengthening out into the prairie.
IN the Nauvoo Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead, the "sisters" have come to hear the words of the Prophet. If we could roll back the shadows of nearly a hundred years, we could see these women sitting there in the lodge room. They are about to hear and' speak words that will be long remembered. They stand on the threshold of a new day, ready a to initiate a message that will echo down the years. If we could roll back the curtain of the years, we could see Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet, tall and queenly with dark hair and large dark eyes. A woman of invincible strength and thoughtful kindness, the Prophet's wife is a leader among the women. If we could see the sisters as they were that day, we could see Bathsheba Smith, only nineteen, and the youngest woman present. She is the wife of the Prophet's cousin, George Albert Smith. She has been married less than a year. Her dark eyes and white, oval face are very beautiful. And here is Eliza R. Snow, sister of Lorenzo Snow. She is a gifted and lovely woman with thoughtful eyes and a sweet, firm mouth. Her gift of poetry is a blessing to the Saints, and there have been very few tragedies here in Nauvoo that have not been made less bitter by the comforting words of her pen; there have been few holidays and celebrations that have not been made more gay by the joyful verses of Eliza R. Snow. She seems to feel the pulse of the city, and she knows the hearts of men and women and finds in her own heart an echo of the strivings of these people for a more perfect life on earth and a greater glory after death. In this room in Nauvoo, here where there is expectancy and eager quietness, we find Sarah M. Cleveland. She has been a true friend to the Prophet and his family. In that tragic time when Emma, with hundreds. Of others, had been driven from their homes in Missouri, at a time when the Prophet had for many months been a prisoner in a dark and desolate jail, it was Sarah Cleveland, in Quincy, who opened her home to Emma and the children. The Prophet, when he was finally reunited with his family and had moved to Nauvoo, selected a lot for the Clevelands just across the street from his own home. The two families know that loyalty and friendship are precious, and Sarah Cleveland is ready to do her part for the new Society. Wherever there is work to be done or service to be rendered, in that place we may expect to find Elizabeth Ann Whitney. She is only forty-one years old, and yet she is the oldest of all the women present. For twenty years she has been married to Newel K. Whitney, a man of thrift and energy, who had accumulated considerable property and owned a store in Kirtland, Ohio, when the Prophet and Emma moved there in the bleak February of 1831. Elizabeth Ann is a noted cook and housekeeper, a good seamstress, and a kind friend. For years she has been a true "Mother in Israel," and now, here in Nauvoo, she is ready to help other women learn to meet the crises of life as she has done during the trying years of the westward movement of the Church. Other women present, making eighteen in all, are: Phoebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Leonora Taylor Phoebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 161
Sarah M. Kimball Sophia Robinson Sophia R. Marks On this eventful day, an open Bible lies on the pulpit in this historic room. The following lines are found written on a scrap lying on the open Bible: "Oh, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be, Amen. With the sword and the word of truth defend Thou them, so mote it be! Amen."
THE first part of the minutes of that Relief Society session were recorded by Elder Willard Richards and the last part by Eliza R. Snow, who was that day elected secretary. These minutes are words precious to us today, for they give interesting and important details of what happened on that first birthday of a great organization. In his neat and meticulous writing, Elder Richards took down the names of those present: Joseph Smith, the Prophet, John Taylor, Willard Richards, and the names of the women. Elder John Taylor was called to the chair by President Smith, and the stirring words of a song floated out of the windows on the springtime air: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning... The latter-day glory begins to come forth... ' The voices are clear and strong, and the echoes ring to the streets where passers-by stop to listen, and children playing in the yards pause with upturned faces. The last words of the song die away. Then Joseph Smith addresses the group, "... To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community..." He then suggested the propriety of electing a presidency. Sister Whitney arose and presented the name of Mrs. Emma Smith as president of the Society. Sister Packard seconded the motion, and it was carried unanimously. The new president, by the first act of her office, selected Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as counselors. One may read in the record of how pleased the Prophet was at the election of his wife to this high office. "President Joseph Smith read the revelation to Emma from the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at the time the revelation was given to expound the Scriptures to all; and to teach the female part of the community, and not she, alone, but others may attain to the same blessing." The Prophet then read the first verse of the Second Epistle of John: "The Epistle of John the elder unto the elect lady... Whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth." The explanation was given that Emma was truly an "elect" lady, for she had now been elected to preside. Elder John Taylor laid his hands upon the head of Emma Smith and blessed her that she might be a mother in Israel "and look to the wants of the needy, and be a pattern of virtue, and possess all the qualifications necessary for her to stand and preside and dignify her office, to teach the females those principles requisite for their future usefulness". The program of the meeting was carried out with order and earnestness, and as soon as the new president of the Society took the chair, she proceeded with the selection of a name for the group. After considerable friendly discussion, this name was chosen — "THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY OF NAUVOO". Counselor Cleveland expressed her thoughts briefly, sincerely. "We design to act in the name of the Lord—to relieve the wants of the distressed and do all the good we can." Eliza R. Snow, with her eyes steady and clear and her voice firm and measured, addressed the ladies: "As daughters of Zion we should set an example to all the world rather than confine ourselves to the course which has been heretofore pursued." Enthusiasm spread from woman to woman. Here was opportunity and here was development. A group of women working together could do more than could ever be accomplished by each individual working separately. Back of each woman would be the strength and the wisdom and the spirituality of all. "We are going to do something extraordinary," said President Emma Smith. "When a boat is stuck on the rapids with a multitude of Mormons on board we shall consider that a loud call for relief. We expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls." The Prophet had further words to say and an example to give: "I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages, and all who shall hereafter be admitted into this Society must be free from censure and received by vote."
ELIZA R. SNOW was elected secretary, and Elvira A. Coles was appointed treasurer. The new officers began at once to exercise the duties of their positions. One began taking minutes and the other to accept donations. The fund for the relief of the poor was initiated at this very first meeting. The Prophet said, "What I do hereafter for charity I shall do through this Society." He then offered $5.00 in gold to begin the funds of the institution. Some of the women had brought money with them, not much money, for practically everyone in Nauvoo was poor; it had taken nearly everything they had to build new homes and secure materials for the building of the temple. Yet, these first Relief Society members thought of their calling—to help the poor and distressed—and they contributed what they could. Elvira Coles wrote down the amounts: Sarah M. Cleveland............ $2.50 Sarah M. Kimball..............1.00 Pres. Emma Smith............ 1.00 Coun. E. A. Whitney........ 50 Elder Richards "appropriated to the funds of the Society" the sum of $1.00 and Elder Taylor donated $2.00. There was no delay in beginning the practical work of the Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 163
"Mrs. Merrick is a widow," said President Emma Smith. "She is industrious, performs her work well. Therefore she should be recommended to the patronage of such as wish to hire needlework done. Those who hire widows must be prompt to pay. As some have defrauded the laboring widow of her wages, we must be upright and deal justly." Elder Taylor then arose: "My heart is much gratified in seeing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo," he said. "My heart rejoices when I see the most distinguished characters stepping forth in such a cause, which is calculated to bring into exercise every virtue and give scope to the benevolent feelings of the female heart. I rejoice that this institution is organized according to the law of Heaven... I rejoice to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner. I pray that the blessings of God and the peace of Heaven may rest on this institution henceforth." Long remembered words! The Relief Society was organized. The words were said, and perhaps the Prophet was the only one who knew how far the work would spread, how the words: would be like a seed growing into a tree with many branches.
Editor's Note: In preparing this article the author has used facts obtained through the research of Mrs. Anthony Tarlock.