Leona B. Fetzer
THE parents of Leona B. Fetzer were converts from Germany. They are devoted Latter-day Saints and early imparted to their children a deep interest in the Gospel. Leona has served as a class leader in various Church organizations since the age of 14 years and as an officer on the Wells and Utah Y. W. M.I. A. Stake boards. When she was 19 years old, she was appointed organist in the Jefferson Ward Relief Society. Since then she has taken an active part in the Relief Society organization. After completing a twenty-seven months' mission in the Northern States, Miss Fetzer began her career as a social worker in the Welfare Department of the Relief Society. She later became Social Service Director of the Utah County Department of Public Welfare. While in this position she taught the social case work class at the Brigham Young University, following Sister Amy Brown Lyman who gave up the work when she left-to preside over the women's organizations of the European Mission. At the instance of the Relief Society, Miss Fetzer went to Los Angeles to work in the Relief Society Social Welfare office in that city. At the present time, she is a Child-Welfare worker in the Sanpete County Department of Public Welfare, working under the general supervision of the Child-Welfare Division of the State Department of Public Welfare. She received her undergraduate college training at the University of Utah, the Brigham Young University and the University of Southern California. From the latter institution she was graduated with honors, her majors being sociology and psychology.. She was here elected to Alpha Kappa Delta, honorary fraternity. Following her graduation, she entered the University of Chicago Graduate School of Social Service Administration, where she spent one year. Here she began specialization in child welfare work, and while at the University worked in a child placing agency and in one of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 157
the nation's outstanding psychiatric clinics. Leona Fetzer has traveled extensively, having visited European countries on two occasions. Her last trip was occasioned by her attendance at the International Conference of Social Work in London, at which time she visited penal and other institutions.
Edith Smith Elliott
EDITH SMITH ELLIOTT comes to the General Board of Relief Society with a background rich in experience and training through a heritage of Mayflower, Revolutionary, and Pioneer ancestry. Her parents, Lucy Woodruff Smith and George Albert Smith, have devoted their lives to home, church and civic activities. Mrs. Elliott's childhood and early schooling were scattered from Salt Lake City to California, including a winter in St. George. She attended the L. D. S. High School. In 1919 she was called on a mission and accompanied her parents to Europe where her father presided over the European Mission. This was at the close of the great World War when the Saints were greatly in need of the spiritual and physical help of the Relief Society. There was but a handful of missionaries in all of Europe, so there was much work for willing hands. Mrs. Elliott was appointed general secretary of the European Mission Relief Societies and worked diligently, along with her mother who was general president, to help relieve the needy and the suffering in war-torn Europe. She attended the International Council of Women in Oslo, Norway, in 1920, with her mother who was a delegate. In 1921 she and her father were guests of the International Drapers Convention in Great Britain. Brother Smith was a delegate representing the Z. C. M. I.