Notes to THE FIELD
Relief Society General Conference
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE will be held in Salt Lake City, April 3, 4, 1940. The first day, sessions will be devoted to an officers' meeting for mission and stake presidents, officers and board members only, and to the following department meetings: Social Welfare, for stake presidents and for ward presidents who may be in attendance at Conference; Work and Business; Choristers' and Organists'; Magazine; Secretary-Treasurers'. Special attention will also be given to Mormon Handicraft and to the work of membership coordinators. The second day, two general sessions will be held. The newly appointed General Presidency and several of the new General Board members will address the sessions. The recently returned Relief Society presidents of the European missions will also participate. Music will be furnished by a combined group of Singing Mothers from Utah, Provo, Sharon and Kolob stakes. It is anticipated that the large attendance and fine spirit in evidence at past conferences will again be enjoyed. We look forward to meeting the Relief Society officers and members from the stakes and missions.
The Relief Society Song Book
"THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK" will be ready about March 1. It will contain some anthems and many of the choice hymns of previous collections as well as a number of new songs. The music has been arranged for general congregational singing as well as for Singing Mothers and other special groups. The book is a handy looseleaf style so that when open it will lie perfectly flat. New songs may be added conveniently. Words and music are easily read. It is eight by eleven inches in size with an attractive blue binding lettered in gold. The book may be purchased from the General Office. The price has been kept as low as possible?85c postpaid, whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Advance orders in quantity lots from stakes and wards should be sent in immediately in order to facilitate distribution as soon as the books are ready. Orders should be addressed:  , Utah.
The Bent Twig
"THE BENT TWIG" by Dorothy Canfield Fisher, being used in the Literature department, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The purchase price is $1.00 postpaid.
194 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
New Cantata by B. Cecil Gates
ORDERS for the new cantata, "Resurrection Morning", written by B. Cecil Gates and referred to in the February issue of the Relief Society Magazine should be addressed: Choir Publishing Company, 672 North First West, Salt Lake City, Utah. Single copies may be purchased for 75?; a ten per cent discount is allowed on quantity lots.
A Week With Books June 17-21, 1940
TO help celebrate the 500th anniversary of the invention of printing, Utah State Agricultural College is going to feature "A Week With Books" during the second week of its summer session, June 17-21, 1940. The program has been especially designed for librarians, parents and club members who are unable to spend more than a week or so in summer study. It is possible to enroll for the program without seeking college credit. Three lectures will be given daily in the mornings. Local faculty members and visiting professors will participate. During the afternoons those attending will have access to the Main Library and to the Anne Carroll Moore Library of Children's Literature. The following themes are to be considered: Monday and Tuesday, June 17, 18, "Books for the Younger Child"; Wednesday, June 19, "Books for the Older Child"; Thursday, June 20, "Books for Adult Reading"; Friday, June 21, "Planning a Club Program or Book Review".