Power In Numbers By Rae B. Barker
THE same fundamental elements are present in a single drop as in a great body of water. Tiny drops of water become a great power when enough of them unite and travel the same course. They make first a streamlet, then a growing tributary, and finally a mighty river— a source of great potential power. Though the potential power in water, and the potential power in electricity, is always present, it becomes a positive force only when it is harnessed and directed toward useful purposes; in other words, when it is organized. Organization is imperative for progress in any situation where great numbers of people are affected. In humanitarian and social fields the average one-man power is about as effective as a garden hose would be in fighting a forest fire. The story of Dr. Semmelweis' lifetime fight against child-bed fever illustrates the tragically helpless position of a public benefactor struggling alone. The effective strength of organized power was demonstrated when later the same battle was taken up and won by the concerted efforts of many, directed to a common purpose. Jesus said, "Where two or three are met in my name, there will I be also." Latter-day Saint Relief Society women are gathered in villages, towns and great cities extending over a large part of the world. Surely a vital force for good is at work when so many thousands of honest-hearted women meet in His name, with a sincere desire to know His gospel. Unquestionably, He will bless and strengthen our united efforts to understand and to live its eternal truths; to serve, to uplift, to love one another, and to raise life to its highest level for ourselves and others. We live in many countries. Various languages are spoken among us. Our styles of dress may differ distinctly. We prepare food under widely varied conditions. We measure our learning by different yardsticks, and we stand at different levels on the ladder of progress. But our likenesses bind us in an enduring bond of unity. Our hearts burn with the same basic desires. Together we are moving toward a common goal, which is a sure knowledge of our Eternal Father and the spread of His plan of life. Alike we have experienced faith and testimony, have known the joy of compassionate service and peace in spiritual growth through Relief Society work. We are unified by our possession of fundamental truths which are of great worth to all people.
BROUGHT forth in the "fullness of times" by divine inspiration, this great organization affords development for the individual within the group, approaching a fullness of stature mentally and spiritually; this, however, if its comprehensive program is used to its fullest extent. It is designed to meet the needs and interests of all women who hunger for knowledge of eternal values. The hand of fellowship goes out to every Latter-day Saint woman—to mothers, grandmothers, brides; to all women of noble character. We recall again, the strength of the Organization lies in the number it serves and likewise in the number who serve it. Included in the Prophet's early instruction to the Society are these valuable pointers for successful growth: 1. The necessity for high standards for membership. He suggests that we may safely increase at a rapid rate if we use care to invite "women of good report" and then practice kindliness, love, mercy and forbearance toward them. 2. Be willing to concede personal opinions for the greater good of all. 3. Loyally support each other, also the program of the Organization. 4. Recognize that in all organized bodies appear little evils and weaknesses which, left unguarded, tend to undermine its strength; for instance, the indulgence in trivial or unsound criticism. In this connection the Prophet said, "Put a double watch over the tongue. No organized body can exist without this at all." Then follows this pertinent observation: "Little foxes spoil the vines, little evils do the most injury to the Church." This remark would fall in the class of little evils: "The older women no longer have a place in Relief Society." Though spoken thoughtlessly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 171 and without analysis, when it is echoed and re-echoed its demoralizing effects spread as does a contagion. It is important that all support the original policy of the Society, which was and still is, a place for all. Better to say: "Age for experience, wisdom to season, faith to sustain; youth for imagination to create, courage to venture, for a thirst to know and energy to do big things; together we can multiply Relief Society's strength." 5. The spirit of sisterhood should characterize our organization. We must rekindle and feed the spirit exhibited in a letter found in the early files. It read, "Now dearly beloved Sisters... Rally to this great movement with all thy zeal, intelligence and faithfulness..." There are two kinds of friendliness, personal and impersonal. The warm personal friendliness is an effective welding influence. The impersonal has little holding power. Our Father's blessings coupled with the foregoing safeguards will insure our progress. Looking back to Relief Society's head-waters, and following its course of growth and achievement, we are stirred by a keen desire to travel on with the rising stream. As our numbers steadily increase, Relief Society will, like the river fed by new rains, grow from strength to ever greater strength.
Relief Society Spiritually Strong By Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
SPIRITUAL strength was possessed by the Relief Society from its very inception, for that small group of eighteen women who met ninety-eight years ago in Nauvoo had already accepted the Gospel, which entailed a certain spiritual stamina on the part of each, and there was still persecution and sacrifice and other hardships to be endured for the sake of the truth. Then, too, the "desire to be united in a society for human service" was almost a guarantee that if this desire was to be realized and the betterment of humankind was to be carried out it would result in continued spiritual growth: In this society women were given additional means for development by the calling forth of powers possessed by them which might not have had an opportunity for such complete expression otherwise. The importance of rendering the type of service which was contemplated by these women is clearly told by Amulek, for. After admonishing the Zoramites to pray always and to follow the commandments continually he said further, "... Do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith. Therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross..." Hundreds of homes and thousands of people have been both materially and spiritually benefited by the ministrations of this great society through the years. One of the best ways of experiencing spiritual growth is to aid our brother and sister. The Relief Society has clearly recognized that there is no one great thing that each can do and then do no more and attain spiritual strength, and so the members have been encouraged in numberless ways to perform various acts and kindnesses to humanity. The need at hand in the homes of the people determined the kind of help that was given. The spirit which has characterized that service has been the same which motivated Jesus as he "went about doing good". Women have carried with them in the performance of their duties "the fruits of the spirit—love, joy, peace, long suffering, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance," and these have been as benedictions in the homes. The thousands of women who have accepted positions of responsibility and leadership in some capacity within this organization has come a measure of growth according to their faithfulness. Many women can count their moment of greatest humility when they were called to serve. They have had to live closer to their Heavenly Father; they have had to pray oftener and more humbly to receive the needed inspiration, and because of this not only has their ability increased but their spirituality has grown. One of the significant ways in which this organization has offered spiritual strength to its membership is the contact for association with other worthy women in the Church. A knowledge of kinship in experience and a sharing of religious belief have contributed to the soul's growth. To have met with women who have traveled the journey before you is to have been spiritually enriched, and to have heard the testimony of others is to have strengthened your own and to have found the needed courage and faith to tackle the demands of daily life. Not only have the women themselves in their opportunities for development been benefited, but into each home where each has abided has gone a certain spiritual stimuli to benefit those within that home circle. It is impossible to measure the extent to which this has occurred, but no one can deny that it has taken place. With increased membership in the years to come, this society will accomplish even greater things. Women in the future will continue to lay hold on gifts which will go with them into eternity: increased knowledge of good, broader understanding of human nature, a greater testimony of the truth and a satisfaction that they have loved and served even the "least". It is reasonable to suppose that in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 173 the time yet to come women will find even greater avenues for organized service, increased opportunity for developing the capacity of leadership and enlarged association with splendid people. Tennyson has said that: "More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of." Relief Society women have wrought marvelous things by prayer and by faith, but closely allied to these has been works—the labor of the hand and heart. Just so long as people abide on the earth there will be needs to be met. Poverty is with people still, sickness seems always to be prevalent, death is ever present; but with a large group of women united in service to allay the pangs of suffering, who knows what faith they will kindle anew in the hearts of those to whom they minister. No one can measure the love they have created in the lives they have contacted, nor can any one estimate the love that will be engendered in the lives that shall be touched in the future. And looking even farther forward is the promise that "eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him."