Ethel Bean Andrew By Hortense S. Andersen
MARY ETHEL BEAN ANDREW, of Ogden, Utah, is a leader among women, yet she follows other fine leadership with humility and dignity. She admires beauty, talents and heroic qualities, such as courage and fortitude; but above all she esteems spiritual development and personal integrity. She is a student of books, people and life, keeping ever alert to changes and their significance. She loves humanity and holds open house, not only for her own, her husband's and her children's friends but for any stranger or acquaintance in need. She has the gift to sympathize, to soothe and to counsel and is generous with her time, her talents and her worldly goods. She knows well the joy of serving others. Mrs. Andrew came from a long line of sturdy pioneers. Her grandparents on both sides were called by President Brigham Young to pioneer southern Utah. It was in Richfield that she was born, the eldest of ten children. Her father, Victor E. Bean, was a teacher and superintendent of schools for seventeen years. He was valiant in the defense of truth, never missing an opportunity to bear his testimony or to preach the Gospel. Her. Mother, Mary Hannah Baker, daughter of Hannah and William George Baker, was noted for her unselfishness, generosity and hospitality. For many years she was a devoted officer in the Relief Society. June, 1913, in the Salt Lake Temple, Ethel Bean married June Andrew. They have three lovely daughters: Virginia, who has filled a mission in the Northwest; June, called to the French Mission and now serving in Montreal, Canada; and Arlene, a student at Weber College. Each is a credit to her family and community and reflects the fine example of her parents. Brother Andrew has always been an active Church worker, having held many responsible positions. Together they have worked, always sustaining each other in their various callings. Ethel Andrew is well qualified for her position as a member of the General Board. She has served in all of the auxiliary organizations. At the age of sixteen she was called to be secretary of the Union Stake Relief Society. She has been literary class leader, ward president and at the time of her call to the General Board was president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 155
She is humble and prayerful. Her life is a garden of good deeds, sown from her rich life experiences.