[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | June | Issue: 18 | Title: NO BLACK FOR ME. | Author: Unknown]

	NO BLACK FOR ME.
No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.
No black for me, why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God’s own angels ear my soul away,
	Should my twin spir[-] bow in woe and night?
Let me be carried from my cheerful home, 
	Like sunshine out of sunshine, flowers from
	flowers; 
Let maids in white and little children come
	And cheer with tender song the lonely hours.
For you will miss me, though some path from
	heaven
May lead straight from my glory to your
	heart; 
And I may come like Jacob’s angels giving
	Some thrill, some joyous message to impart.
So keep the light about you; death is light,
	And life, and power to pure and chastened
	love,
And death is only dark to doubt, and sight
	That has no visions from the world above.
	ALICE ROBBINS.
	The above beautiful poem was written
many years ago, while the custom of wear-
ing deep mourning held absolute sway
among all civilized people, but the writer,
like a true prophetess, caught glimpses of
light from afar. Some spirits are destined 
to be forerunners of the truth in all ages.
And though they may be laughed at or
scorned for expressing sentiments ahead of
the time in which they live, the truth will
be recognized and established in the on ward
march of progress.—“Though learned but
slowly and by few.” Thought on the in-
consistency of this custom of “mourning”
was first awakened in my mind when, but
a child, I heard Mrs. S. M. Kimball, now
Honorary President of the Woman’s Suf-
frage Association of Utah, say in one of 
the sisters’ meetings held in the 14th ward
Assembly Hall, then heavily draped in black
on the occasion of Bishop Hoagland’s
funeral, the somber hangings still remained

[Column 2]
in place, and Sister Kimball remarked that
they had a gloomy and chilling effect upon
the spirits of those present, and she said in
earnest appeal; “When my worn and weary
spirit has entered its rest there will be no
occasion to mourn for me, and please let
the drapery at my funeral be WHITE,” My
judgment approved her choice, and I have
watched with satisfaction the growth of
this sentiment among the Latter-day Saints
whose faith teaches them to mourn with a
“glorious hope.”
	The women of our faith have been called
“the remodelers of society,” and it is true
that we aim to adopt all improvements con-
sistent with the spirit of true progress, and
we are striving to discourage all customs
that have not the support of sound reason. 
We claim to have received, through direct
revelation, superior intelligence regarding
death, and draping ourselves in the folds of
the mourning apparel is not in harmony with
the glorious light and hope beyond the
grave given to us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then why should we cling to a
false custom of our forefathers so suggestive
of the dark ages in which it originated?
	In a recent number of the EXPONENT I
read with interest the following paragraph:
“A dispatch from London says:—One of
the  largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened in West-
minister. It is under the auspices of the
Burial, Funeral and Mourning Reform As-
sociation, and its object is to advocate the
exercise of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning.” Perhaps
the beautiful example of Henry Ward
Beecher has had some influence in forming
or reforming public opinion on this subject. 
It was his request that a wreath of flowers
instead of crape be hung on the door of his
residence after his death, that the blinds re-
main up and the rooms be lighted, and at
his funeral his family should appear in their
usual Sunday attire. Instead of the cus-
tomary dismal drapery of his casket, it was
laid in a bed of white flowers. To be con-
sistant with our belief we, as a people,
should gather the bright and beautiful about
us, and when sorrow enters our hearts and
homes it is our duly to court all cheering
and comforting influences. One young
mother, when asked why she did not wear
mourning at the death of her child, ans-
wered, “Because I feel sorrowful and
gloomy enough without it."
	That grief is most sincere which shuns
observation. There is a natural delicacy in
the human heart, especially of sensitive and
refined natures, which shrinks from exhi-
bitions of great joy or sorrow, and such
would gladly dispense with all the
paraphernalia of mourning, but have not
the courage to defy a long established
fashion. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our
love? Then why display it to the public
gaze? The idea of fashion limiting the
length of time that we should appear to
mourn for our loved ones! or designating
the intensity thereof by “deep mourning,”
“half mourning” etc, as our fashionable


[Column 1]
woman in describing her grief for “her late
lamented husband” said “my grief was
so intense that the hem of my veil was half
a yard deep and touched the bottom of my
dress!” Delicacy would suggest retaining
the only part of the mourning apparel of
any utility, the veil, which however need not
necessarily be black, and its service is of no
avail if worn fluttering down the back, as
the present style demands. As for mourn-
ing ornaments, who ever saw black flowers?
Fashion and style may outrage nature, while
true art imitates it; and to wear black
flowers is in my opinion an insult to the
lovely hued flowery kingdom, none of which
were ever known to turn black even on the
most solemn occasion—the death of their
own kindred. While I deem it a duty to
seek consolation and happiness from all 
sources, and place ourselves under pleasant 
and cheerful influences, I have mentally ex-
claimed, “Consistency thou art a jewel!”
while watching stylish mourning suits with
crape trimming gracefully waving through
the gay dance, while the smiling faces of
the wearers betoken more joy than sorrow.
	On pleasure excursions and at places of
public amusement the mourning dress ap-
pears out of season. When one's feelings
are under sufficient control to allow the
habitual mingling in gay society, good taste
and sincerity would suggest the wearing
of a more suitable costume. There are
many good reasons for discarding this
fashion. How often does it mislead in re-
gard to the feelings which it is supposed to
portray? For instance, one widow whose
matrimonial experiences has been one scene
of conflict, unmarked by respect or affection,
and perhaps while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her instead of the
law, while her neighbor loses a congenial
affectionate partner and is overwhelmed
with genuine grief. Both wear mourning.
Which is the mourner? The heart broken
mother lays her dearest treasure in the
grave, and the woman, who has waited
impatiently for the death of some distant
relative whose money she will inherit, both
don mourning. Which one mourns?
	Then the expense and inconvenience of
the custom is enough to relegate it to the
past, especially by the masses. The sup-
port of the family is taken away, sickness
has already incurred debt which the family
must still increase by getting the mourning
outfit, or be considered lacking in respect
for the dead. Extra and unnecessary ex-
penses are thus laid upon the widow when
she is least able to sustain the expense
which must become an injustice to children
among the poor, for the purchase of the
mourning outfit would, in some instances,
be sufficient to pay a year’s schooling for a
family. Can a wife or daughter show re-
spect for a husband or father by bowing to
the dictates of this fashion, while the name
of the deceased is whispered hopelessly
among his creditors?
	Above all things, let us not crush the
natural, carefree cheerfulness of the chiidren
between the folds of this dismal garb, after
any sorrow, help them to recover a happy
frame of mind as quickly as possible.
Children’s grief often arises from witnessing
that of others. Sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness.
Let it flow while it can without restraint.
It may require some effort for parents to
entirely abandon the custom of wearing
mourning, when they have been taught
from childhood to regard it as a necessity in

[Column 2]
bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
revelation, let us keep their minds free from
traditions and prejudices born of ignorance
and superstition. Let reason, good taste,
and a delicate sense of the appropriate on all
occasions be our guide, and let each person’s
individuality assert itself where matters of
the heart are concerned.
	I know many noble, brave women who
have mourned their beloved dead with the
most acute sense of loss and bereavement,
yet wore no outward symbol of the grief
within, and can sensible people honor them
less for possessing delicacy and refinement
that cannot be overcome by that whimsical
monarch, Dame Fashion? We are one with
those who are courageous enough to brave
public opinion and maintain a respectful
disregard for the long established custom of
wearing mourning, and will not help to
perpetuate the growing tendency to un-
necessary expense and display at the
funerals of our loved ones.
	“Bury me quietly when I die.”
