[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | June | Issue: 18 | Title: WOMAN SUFFRAGE. | Author: J. S. ROBINSON]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

(Written especially for the Woman’s Exponent.
Copyrighted 1894, by the Author. All rights
reserved.]
THE dark night’s hour was twelve, perhaps later:
I had just return’d home from the theatre,
Where I heard the fiery debater—
A lady who enjoys national fame—
On that old and beaten subject declaim,
Call’d by such as Woman Suffrage name.
And now that I lay restless in my bed,
Reviewing and weighing what she had said—
The arguments she had hurl’d forth, glowing red,
Why woman should not disfranchised be
But should have restored back her liberty,
Be from those shackles of bondage set free.
I set to doubting and saying—no,
Woman should not be allowed the polls to go,
To stem or aid the election's flow; 
Let her remain to home, home is her world;
Her structure is too delicate to be hurl’d
Devious with every political storm unfurl’d.
Yet, I next thought, she is endowed with sense,
Ample to know the better side of the fence.
And sense is the only weight of importance
Which should weigh in the question's balance 
	boat;
Really, to decree that she must not vote,
Cuts her innate liberty’s very throat.
Thus would flit before the eye of my mind
One argument, of favorable kind:
Then another, in adversity entwined,
Till my thoughts so entangled in the subject grew
Till my reason was put to so much ado,
I could not sift error from what is true.
At length my thoughts distorted swell'd, as they,
	swept,
In all the frightful shapes fantasy kept,
Before my mind, and away slowly crept.
Anon no train of reason could I keep;
Now the grossest foolishness did my mind reap
Benumb’d and rounded out in the gulfs of sleep
Day had now come, forenoon was in its grave:
The man I loved, so noble and brave,
Of robust physique florid cheeks, and clean
	shave,
Awaited without, with his carriage fine,
For me to accompany him to dine,
Or fill an invitation to take wine;
In less than a quarter, by the clock,
I had myself clad in silken frock
And was speeding along the street paved with
	rock.
Beside the man of my mind’s own choice, 
So near his pure heart I might well rejoice,
in a carriage fine of his own invoice.
But, as a corner we turn’d sharp and spry,
The hideous steam roller met the steed’s eye,
Quick he became frighten’d, began to shy.
Just then the frightful thing a sharp puff blew out
Instantly the horse leap’d, to reverse his route, 
With the same turned suddenly about: 
My heart leap’d up into my mouth with fright,
For dear life I to my escort clung tight—
Clung to his sinewy arm with all my might;
Another puff the engine gave—the steed,
With a wild leap of most vicious greed,
Plunged farther, bent from the noise to be freed.


[Column 1]
Follow’d a tremendous chaotic crash—
The carriage was o’erturned—with awful clash,
Away with shatter’d carriage the horse did dash
To my escort I clung in wildest dismay,
A telephone post I now saw did lay
Right afront of us, right in the steed's way—
Yes, and the buggy swift into it smashed:
I felt my poor body against it lash’d— 
But knew no more—perhaps all cut and gashed.
Somehow and strange I carried far away was,
Where infamiliarity keeps its laws,
Where I knew neither space, time, nor cause.
And it seemed to me I lightly went 
Along a narrow path which never bent,
Which led us onward thro’ the firmament;
Nor was I alarmed at this trip so strange,
E’er farther from where my knowledge did range
But all within me was calm as the change.
Now seem’d to confront me a huge gateway,
Built of polished stone and architecture gay,
Enshrouded in effulgence of brightest day.
And something to my mind seemed to state—
Here is where mortals, seeking Heaven. wait
For the Judge Supreme to decree their fate.
Without impulse, reason, or notice, 
All by unconscious volition passive,
Three raps, to come in at the gate, I did give;
Thereupon the mighty gate opened up wide—
A form, in pure white clad, stood inside
And gazed on me in silence, deified,
As if to question me from whence I came,
What was my business there and what my name,
I stammer’d out, with speech somewhat lame.
For I, myself, knew not what I would there:
“Oh, pardon my disturbance, thou so fair!
But, what name dost thou give this place of the
sir?
He answer’d, without a moment to wait,
-' In tones whose sweetness could intoxicate: 
“This is the Celestial City Gate.”
What, I thought to myself, then am I dead?
Have I from my earthly body fled?
Then, I, in wild anxiety, said:
“Can I return no more to my beloved land?’’
All who enter this gate,” quick came the com-
   mand,
“Nevermore ruturn to the mortal strand.”
“Oh, let me not enter then,” my quick tongue
   ran,
“I am in love with a mortal man!”
And my poor heart sigh’d, as anguish can.
Oh, how did I pass to this place of shade
Without knowing from my true love I strayed
Without a last kiss upon his lips laid.
Without his face so true at my dying bed!
“Kind sir, I am betrothed,” I then said, 
“I love: Oh, I must return to be wed!”
The personage, heedless, unto me spoke,
As if not seeing thro’ my speech’s cloak
The grief which was about my heart to choke.
As if he had heard not one word I utter’d
From my grief burden’d heart which flutter'd
I in palpitating anguish as it mutter’d:
But, as if aware and knowing full well
The exact locality where I did dwell
In the Womau Suffrage Question dell;
Spoke unto me in these words aliquot:
“Your mind in restless broil is toss’d about,
To know whether or not woman should vote.”
Surprised I was that the stranger knew my mind
I wonder’d in wonderment of vacant kind,
Stared on him with all the eyes I could find;
Soon, recovering back myself, I ask’d,

[Column 2]
“Since thou hast that important question Un
	masked,
Tell me, should woman with the ballot be task’d?”
He spoke, "From the decree of Heaven I this
	quote:
In the affairs of men, on earth remote,
It is woman’s right, yea,duty to vote.”
“And man,” he added, “does her shamful wrong
To steal this right and keep it from her long,
Because he is politically strong;
“Go, tell all humankind, on earth below,
Heaven is displeased with this evil they sow,
Which threatens the whole sphere to overgrow.”
And he was ceased. Silent, awhile I thought,
Pleased with the favorable decision, wrought
In favor of woman’s, using the ballot.
And delighted indeed, to hear he’d said
I should go, bear the news, with reversed tread,
To where the man dwelt whom I should wed.
But, catching a whisper from Reason’s tongue,
I said, “kind being, thou dost ken I am young,
And when I return humankind among,
"Unless I have reasons for this epigraph,
Earth’s wise men will call it naught more than
	chaff, 
And at its bearer deridingly laugh;
I pray thee (allow me so to intrude,)
Some reasons with this thy message include—
Reasons plain, clothed not in similitude.”
Awhile he deeply thought, and then he spoke:
“When ask’d the whyfore, by earth’s learned folk
Tell them—the Allwise says woman should vote
“But, if reasons further are desired,
Say the only requisite required,
A lone one but in rarity attir--
“To enable one to cast votes -ith sense
In the proper basket of the b--ance,
Is good, sound, mental intelligence.
“Now, the most ignorant man who treads life’s
shore,
Because he is born man and nothing more,
Is allow’d to cast his vote against or for.
Then why should not woman of sense born,
Yea, many capable Congress to adorn,
Be allow’d to vote on election morn?”
“Thy reason is very fine,” I then said,
“And it seems to me of such good logic bred
That it should convince the most stubborn head.”
“But,” I continued, “what will I say
When worldly wise men into my ears bray— . 
Politics are not for women to weigh.
“Woman’s duty is with her children, at home,
To see that they in the fields of learning roam,
From books and men all usefulness to comb?”
Observing me much fatigued, he then said:
“I see you are tired, both limb and head,
Set yourself down on the verdure there spread.”
So I did as bade, his heart good as great—
Sat myself down on the lawn by the gate,
And when I was seated his voice did state:
“Tell them that it is true woman’s place
Is the marble halls her homelo grace,
Teach her children to shun everything base,
Mould them into upright men and women pure:
In short, make them as near perfection’s picture
As is possible for effort to procure.
Then ask, but how can she this duty fill—
The highest to which motherhood can thrill,
To think of it causes my blood to chill.
Educate her sons in such wisdom wise
That they may be enabled to arise
To the statesmen and leaders nations prize,

[Column 3]
Without herself understanding, at the best,
Governmental affairs either East or West,
How the nation either lives or builds its nest. 
Then say—no, she cannot. She must understand
Every plank on which governments stand,
To well teach her sons to govern the land.
And say when all this nation lore she must learn;
With all this set and ready her tongue to turn,
Think you she knows not whose best fit to
	govern?
Think you such intelligence so encompass’d,
To be with aliens, savages and beasts class’d,
It should not be allow’d a vote to cast?
And odd—after she has thus trained her son,
Ever since his infancy begun,
For statesmanship or leadership to run:
“Then, would you deny her, at the end,
Him into his long-hoped-for place to send,
The privilege her vote to him to lend?”
“Truly, kind sir,” I said, “thou dost discourse
	well— . ,
Arguments mighty enough an oak to fell,
And the most sturdy in the forest dell.”
Yet, realizing what a golden chance
Was now before me, what matchless intelligence,
I desired the being’s mental lance
Down the skull of every question to cut
Which were to men’s eyes on earth ever shut;
And ope them up; so I this query put,
After being assured I did not intrude;
In asking further question, I was not rude:
Perchance, when I am in earthly habitude,
Some arrogant person should unto me say,
Suppose we grant it thee that woman.may
Cast her ballot on fair election day,
She would the very selfsame ticket vote
As the judgement of her husband did denote  
So would do every woman in wedlock’s boat.
Thus no side would have over the others a 
	gain,
Neither candidate would have the longer train, 
Than tho’ woman should disfranchised remain.
Moreover, and allow woman to vote,
Domestic discord, yea, wrath does promote,
By putting debate in the household afloat;
One will say this is right: the other, no,
And the sequel will be discord’s painful woe—
Fiery anger exchanging blow for blow.
If she’ll not hand in hand with her husband go,
We’ll from her possession the ballot throw
And, thus far, compel her to do so.”
No sooner had I ceased than he began,
From the knowledge I have of earthly man,
With unerring truth, I think I say can,
That to allow woman her vote to cast,
Will not of necessity the household blast
With matrimonial discord’s cruel frost.
Wherever it does brew some little discord, 
There contention ever holds a ready sword,
And red-eyed quarrel lurks behind every word.
Let us assume discord it does produce:
Is woman more than man the evil deuce?
Should the wife more than the husband beg excuse?
Now I beheld come o’er the speaker’s face
Pleasant expression, bearing distinct trace,
Sparkling in his eyes, up his cheeks running
	race,
As if this question of wedlock’s discord
Had nigh cast arguments overboard,
But now he had victory o’er them scored.
He went on, “As to the mischievous stone
Which might be as argument at you thrown, 
You a few moments since to my ears made
	known—


That, should woman to cast vote allow’d be,
Vote the ticket her husband did would she,
And thus would be better’d neither nominee.

Hurl back into their faces this mighty blow—
We who would have woman to the polls go
Wish her the same vote, as her husband does
throw;

Thus far, neither candidate would better’d be;
But within our fair nation’s boundary,
According to the census, referee,

Many million more women than men dwell,
Who have no husbands whom they can tell
To vote the wishes which within them swell.

Now, should all these go to the ballot box,
To vote the decision their good sense unlocks,
Politics would be clad in different frocks."

Furthermore, the fiery debater did say,
‘‘All these masses of womankind yearly pay
That with which our nation its debts does defray.

Yes, their taxes the men’s salaries pay
Who would the nation’s laws, of reason’s clay,
Who enforce them, who interpret what mean
they,

But are not allow’d a ballot to cast—
Not allow’d to say they want he who last
Marches—the good man in virtue encompass’d.

What would any private employer think,
Who pays the hands who weld link to link
Of the commodity which brings his chink,

If he could not say that man I will hire;
This man, when his term of office does expire,
I will bid from my services retire?

Why, he would declare it such an outrage
On human liberty that no savage
Would tolerate it, lived he in any age."

As the personage this last sentence said,
I felt something shaking and shaking my head;
Soon I heard my name call’d—Winnefred!
Winnefred!

Louder and louder the calling then seem’d;
I oped up my eyes from sleep—bright morn
gleam’d,
In surprise I look’d around—I had dream’d.
J. S. ROBINSON.
April, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


