GUIDE LESSONS. 653 or person at whose instance the Temple work is done to each one of the dead individuals. This constitutes an excellent means of identifying them; but, unfortunately, the records of deaths and marriages that are kept in most communities seldom show the names of the parents of persons whose names are entered therein, and the maiden names are frequently lacking of mothers of the children whose births are registered. This imperfection in " records of vital statistics is a serious handicap in searching for genealogies of dead relatives, because the absence of names of parents of persons therein registered renders it impossible to clearly ascertain relationship from that source. (An effort is being made by the Hon. Reed Smoot, Senior representative from Utah in the United States Senate, to get this defect in registration of vital statistics remedied by law). Inability to ascertain relationship to the individuals named in records of births, marriages and deaths, or in other records in which the searcher finds surnames of family lines in which he is interested, should not deter him from copying those names into the compilation he desires to make, for the purpose of having Temple ordinances performed in their behalf. The fact is that niany of the persons who appear in the same parish or district records, hearing surnames of the family lines to whjlDm the searcher is related, are probably his blood relations althought he may be unable, at that "time, to determine what that relationship is; it is quite possible he may secure the missing clue thereto at some later time. President Wilford Woodruff instructed the recorders, in the Salt Lake Temple to accept records for ordinance work even though the members of the Church giving such records could not designate their relationship to the dead. He said, however, that care must be exercised to prevent duplication of the Temple v/ork: families and individuals must not encroach upon each other's rights and privileges in the performance of Temple ordinances, but should confer together, if possible, concerning the genealogies, etc., of those in whom they may be mutually interested. The President also stated that it would be proper, for thos,e who desire to have Temple work done for their kindred, to gather names and genealogies for that purpose of all individuals bearing the surnames of the family lines to whom thev were personally related, but especially of those who resided in localities where their ancestors or blood relations lived. Family and surname family associations point the way to unify such work and will usually.solve this.problem. In this connection, it should be remembered that each member of the Church is entitled to have Temple ordinances per
 formed in behalf of the four family lines to whom he is directly related; that is, the blood kindred of his parents and grandparents, those bearingthe surnames of his father's father and mother and his mother's father and mother. The result of following this extended plan of compiling names etc.. for Temple work is that hundreds of thousands of dead have had those ordinances performed in their behalf, who would not have been liberated from the spirit prison if their living friends had limited that sacred and necessary labor to the interest of those only with whom they are able to prove a personal relationship. The Saints are urged to be diligent in procuring the information needed to enable them to have Temple ordnances performed in behalf of their dead kindred and friends, remembering "that they without us cannot be made perfect," "neither can we without the dead be made perfect," if those ordinances are not complied with. The Genealogical Society of Utah, whose ofifice." and extensive library and genealogical books are located in the L. D. S. Church Office Building, 47 E. South Temple St., is an invaluable aid to those seeking genealogical information. D. M. McAllister. Temple Recorder. LESSON IV: Home Courses. Fourth Week in December. MEAT SUBSTITUTES FROM THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. At different times during the.past year our Food Administration has asked us to conserve certain kinds of meat and to decrease the amount of meat in the diet^ Immediately the question arises "What may we use in place of the meat to serve the same purpose to the body? Upon analysis meat is found to contain a large amount of protein, a nitrogenous substance, which builds up and repairs the tissues of the body. By a similiar analysis of various vegetables and grains, it is found that a comparatively few contain protein in an appreciably large amount. However, peas, beans, nuts, and wheat, are important for the protein which they contain and may be used in place of meat in the diet. Peas and beans belong to a class of vegetables called legumes. Lentils and nuts belong to this group also, and are rich in protein. GUIDE LESSONS. 655 The peas and beans are extensively used fresh, canned, and dried, and either buttered, creamed or baked are used as a vegetable. But there are many ways in which they may be used as the substantial part of the meal so that a meat dish may be omitted entirely without upsetting the dietetic balance of the diet. Combined with milk in a. cream of pea or bean soup, these legumes form a desirable luncheon dish with a crisp salad and simple.dessert to make the meal complete. The dried peas are especially good prepared in the form of a souffle or a loaf to be sliced and served as one would serve a meat loaf. \"ariety to the diet may be given by the use of different kinds of beans, for beside the green and wax string beans and the navy bean, the most commonly used are the Lima, Kidney and Soy beans, in many colors. The Soy beans are much richer in both fat and protein, or tissue building food, than other beans. They have taken the place of milk and butter to the Japanese and Chinese people, and should be used more extensively in this country. The Soy bean, of the yellow variety, may be made into a Soy bean loaf which is usually served with a tomato sauce, or into a Soy bean souffle which is particularly dainty. The black Soy bean is most frequently used in soups. Lima beans en casserole and bean and tomato stew are other typical ways in which the bean may be used in place of meat in the principal course of the meal. And the good old-fashioned baked beans, so dear to the heart of the Bostonian, is always a welcome piece de resistance for the Saturday night supper. The fresh peas or beans are cooked in boiling salted water until just soft, which usually requires from twenty to forty minutes. The. dried legumes must be soaked in cold water several hours in order to replace the water lost in the process of drying, and then should be cooked slowly and for a long time. When the canned vegetables are to be used, the cans should be opened sometime before the vegetables are to be served, in order that they may become aerated. Often it is desirable to drain the liquid from the vegetable and to rinse the latter with cold water before heating and seasoning ready for serving. Macaroni is made from a grade of wheat rich in gluten, which is the name given to protein in wheat. Until within a few years this particular variety of wheat was grown principally in Italy, but now many states of our United States are producing a wheat especially adapted to the manufacture of macaroni, and the industry is developing into an important one in this country. In the making of macaroni and its allied forms, the wheat is ground and mixed to a paste with water. It is then shaped by 
 the force of a plunder havingrods of various diameters, making tubes of different sizes to which the names macaroni, spaghetti and vermicelli are given. The paste is then dried. For cooking, the macaroni is placed in a large quantity of boiling salted water and kept boiling vigorously until soft. It is then drained and rinsed with cold water. Macaroni with cheese is the most common way of serving the largest variety of this paste, while the Spaghetti is usually served with tomato sauce. Vermicelli is often added to soups. Macaroni and cheese, both being rich in protein, in combination is an especially valuable meat substitute dish.
Bean Loaf.
1 C. white beans cooked. 1 T. salt. 1 C. peanuts. Spk. pepper.  C. bread crumbs.  C milk.
Put beans and peanuts through grinder. Add crumbs, seasonings, and milk. Shape into a loaf. Bake 30 min. Serve hot, sliced.
Peas in Ramekins.
1 C. pea pulp. 1 T. potato starch. Few drops onion juice.  T. salt.  C. milk. Spk pepper. 2 T. Fat. 3 eggs.
Soak dried peas 24 hrs. Cook slowly until soft. Press peas through colander; add to sauce made of milk, fat, starch and seasoning. Add onion juice and yolks beaten. Put into oiled ramekins. Bake in water in a moderate oven 40 minutes.
Lion House Bean Soup.
After the usual boiled or baked beans have become a little tiresome because of several days' repetition, boil the left-over beans until softened, strain through a colander, and add one quart of milk to one cup of strained beans. If they were cooked with butter or bacon, all right. If not, add a spoonful of butter and season. This is a great favorite in President Smith's family.
Take Time. Mrs. Effie Rowley
Can you pause just a moment, through life's rushing day, To speak to the erring and show him the way, How to turn in the path which will lead far above? Is it worth all your time, your patience and love, To lead the steps back where the road turns away In the path of true wisdom, from night unto day?
Can you stop, dearest mother, and listen to the child Who speaks to you sweetly in accents so mild? Or have you no time through the hurry and strife To bless and to comfort the child of your life? While trying to gain what the world may call bliss, We reach out for trifles and the great things we miss.
Can you take time, the gospel to preach to your boy Who is just at the age for frolic and joy, And by the allurements of folly and sin Is fast with the multitude rushing therein? Or do you fancy that this is time lost, And hurry to pleasure, not counting the cost?
Can you take time to impress on the daughter you love Virtue and wisdom which lead far above The fashions and pride of the world's false din, Which are leading the daughters of Zion to sin? Or is all your time, which the Maker gave here, Too precious to waste for our children so dear?
Can you take time to make things more pleasant at home And not drive those footsteps in dark streets to roam, Where vice and temptation they surely will meet? Oh, then, dearest mother, you'd take time to weep! So take time today nor count it time lost To teach and to govern your precious child-host.
ATTENTION SISTERS!
Subscribe NOW for the MAGAZINE
On account of the shortage of paper and the heavy increase of press work, it will be impossible to publish only such numbers of the Magazine as are actually subscribed for. Therefore, our friends must send in their subscriptions at once.
Who among you can get along without the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? It will be impossible to supply back numbers. If you want the January number you must send in your names before December 15.
GET BUSY, AGENTS!
UNCLE SAM asks that we conserve in our Xmas giving. An ideal and lasting gift, and one that is always appreciated is
A GOOD BOOK
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE
The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East South Temple Street
BUY JEWELRY NOW!
Watches Diamonds, and Jewelry. Military Wrist Watches, $9.00 up. Ladies' Wrist Watches, $5.00 up. Watch and Jewelry Repairing
JENSENS, JEWELERS, 71 Main St. Est. 1875
PEAR BREAD OR FRUIT BREAD
Pears (dry and sliced) 16 oz., raisins 5 oz., currants 5 oz., walnuts (chopped) 5 oz., sugar 4 oz., cinnamon 2 teaspoons, cloves  teaspoon, anise 1 teaspoon, brandy or cider 4 oz. Mix well and leave stand over night in a stone or glass jar. In the morning make sponge: 1 qt. water, 1 lbs. flour, 3 cakes Fleishmann's Yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar. When light (about 1 hours) mix the fruit in the sponge, add about 1 lbs. flour, make medium stiff dough, let rise until about double size, make into loaves, let rise to double size and bake. If served with cheese is delicious. This bread will keep for weeks, and improves with age. The fruit may be prepared days or even weeks ahead of baking. It will improve the flavor.
THE FLEISHMANN CO.
SEND Xmas Cards early to your friends at home and abroad.
You will find an excellent and complete stock at
The Pembroke Company 22-24 East Broadway Salt Lake City
EDWIN F. PARRY, JR. SERVICE BUREAU Templeton Building Salt Lake City
ADVERTISING We write advertising letters, pamphlets and booklets, prepare copy for newspaper and magazine ads.
ADDRESSING We address envelopes, postal cards, wrappers or other mailing matter from our customers' lists or your own lists.
MAILING LISTS Classified lists, manufacturers, wholesalers, supply houses, retailers, consumers, professional, residential, rural, mail order, financial, investment and miscellaneous.
MAILING  We fold and enclose circulars, reports, etc., wrap books and samples, seal and stamp all classes of advertising or other matter for mailing or delivery.
TYPEWRITING We address envelopes by typewriter, fill in names and addresses on letters, copy and prepare lists or manuscript or any form of typewriting.
STENCIL CUTTING We cut and furnish stencils for the Elliott or Bellmap addressing systems.
FACSIMILE LETTERS Multigraphing and Mimeographing of circular letters.
LEGAL DEPARTMENT MAKING OF WILLS CONTRACTS AND COLLECTIONS PROBATING OF ESTATES GENERAL LEGAL WORK
Through a Spirit of Helpfulness Daynes-Beebe Music Co. makes it possible for every family to own a COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA
This big Utah Music House knows the worth of Music to the home, and encourages Music by offering a most exceptional easy-payment plan. Music is essential to cheer in these war days  it serves as a relaxation.
"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" ESTABLISHED 1850
Be Patriotic
Save wheat, sugar and fats. Good, pure bread can be made of wheat flour and other cereals by using
Fleischmann's Yeast
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908
THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
"The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient Service.
One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions.
Joseph F. Smith, President Heber J. Grant, Vice-President Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest. Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier
S. M. TAYLOR & Co. SALT LAKE CITY Undertakers and Embalmers Successors to Joseph E.