BONDAGE."

My Brethren and Sisters:
	We have met on this occasion to bear witness
to the world that we hold in sacred remembrance
the entrance of the Pioneers into this region.
	The story of that very remarkable journey of
the pioneers across those dreary plains between
the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains and the
Mississippi river, together with the arrival of the
Pioneers in these mountains and the results grow-
ing out of their labors have already been related
by a son of one of that noble few who took part
in laying the foundation of this commonwealth in
this valley, a thousand miles and more from the
frontier of the United States. That story was
briefly but eloquently told.
	It has been my fortune to travel con-
siderably through a number of the
United States, and invariably have I
noticed that the old settlers, the Pioneers, were
held in very high esteem by communities that
grew up around the district of country where they
first settled. It is eminently proper that the
pioneers of any land should be held in honor, for
I know of no labor that is more noble in its
character than that which is performed by those
brave men who go out into the wilderness, erect
their rude cabins, break up the virgin soil, and
who say to the elements by which they are sur-
rounded, "Yield me up a livelihood; under God I
am king here!" Their self-denial in leaving the
luxuries of civilization for the toils and hsrdships
of pioneer life should knit them to our hearts in
bands of steel. If the doctrine that Socrates enun-
ciated is true, that "he who causes two spears
of grass to grow where only one grew before," is
a benefactor of mankind, how much more are
these pioneers benefactors of mankind, who laid
the foundation of States and empires, and made
it possible for the crowded communities of the
East to find homes in God's sunshine, where
health and plenty and peace crown the labors of
their hands.

[Column 2]
	Humble their lot; yet theirs the race
		When Liberty sent forth her cry,
	Who thronged in conflict's deadliest place.
		To fight—to bleed—to die!
	Who cumbered Bunker's heights of red,
		By hope through weary years were led,
	And witnessed Yorktown's sun
		Blaze on a nations' banner's spread
	A nation's freedom won—
	My friends, they were pioneers as well as pa-
triots.
	Utah in the past has not been found wanting in
paying honor to her pioneers. As the great wheel 
of time has brought to us the anniversary of the
entrance of our Pioneers into this valley, we have
welcomed it with praise and thanksgiving to the
Giver of all good; with the roar of cannon, with
songs of joy, and every demonstration of gladness.
The exercises of to-day however are of a different
character from those that have been customary
in the past. The music is solemn, the drum is
muffled, and in the decorations of this hall are
the emblems of mourning. Why is that? Be-
cause, forsooth, in this land whose prosperity was
founded by the toil and labors of the Pioneers,
we find the silver haired men that used to crown
these platforms are not with us. They are driven 
from the homes that they builded by their own
toil, they are absent from the families that they
love.  What for?  The crimes they have com-
mitted?  No; but you read why it is in the motto
that is printed upon that arch (pointing to an arch
over the stand): "Exiled for conscience' sake."
It is written elsewhere too, (indicating another
motto on the stand): "Those not here are in
jeaopardy, in prison and in foreign lands, because
they prefer to obey God rather than man." (In-
dicating another): "Those who are absent choose
to be wanderers in their own land, in preference
to being the victims of those who have selected
them for their ruin." These mottoes all tell us
the reason why the Pioneers are absent from us;
and under these circmstances, would it be fitting
for us to celebrate Pioneers' Day as we usually do,
with the Pioneers absent—in exile? Nay, we
would rather have around us the emblems of
mourning, because of the injustice that has been
heaped upon their devoted hands. We prefer to
place ourselves in harmony with the divine injunc-
tion, "Weep with those who have cause to weep,
and rejoice with those who have cause to re-
joice;" and, when the clouds have been swept
away, as they will be, when our silvery-haired
pioneers shall be able to take their place in our 
midst for one I feel like saying then, and not till
then, shall the voice of rejoicing be heard on
Pioneer Day.
	Let us pause for a few moments just to enquire
what our enemies are trying to accomplish. These
pioneers in years past married our mothers; and,
under God's law, in the holy bonds of matrimony,
they begot the children that now throng this vast
hall. Our enemies demand that the wives that
they then took shall be banished from the house-
holds of these men. They demand that they
shall be degraded from the honored station of
wifehood; that a brand of infamy shall be placed
upon their offspring, and they nobly refuse to ac-
cept such terms of accommodation as these. They
say to those who desire them to yield, that this is
part of their religion. The answer comes from
our enemies that it is not religion—it is a crime.
We ask, who gives them authority to step between
this people and their God, and dictate to them
what shall be their religion. If it is not theirs, it
is ours; nevertheless, we propose to be true to
our fathers and our mothers.
	Let our enemies look over the history of the
past. Surely they have read history to little profit
if by force they hope to crush out the religious
sentiments and convictions of the human heart.
Why, during the reign of Mary, Queen of Eng-
land, the daughter of Henry the Eighth by his
wife Catherine, you remember a persecution was

[Column 3]
waged against the Protestants in her kingdom, and
during the five years of her reign 277 were tied to
the stake and burned to death. Fifty-five of these
were women; four of them were children. But
did this awful persecution crush out the convic-
tions of religion in the hearts of those people?
No. In spite of the faggot and the flame, their 
faith rose triumphant over all the persecutions,
and they established their religious system of
worship which led to the granting of religious
liberty to all English subjects, and we in America
have inherited the fruits of their achievement.
With this lesson of history before them, can our
enemies hope to crush the conviction of our
hearts? With a united voice we tell them no;
they can not; it will not be done.
	Here will we hold: We love the institutions of
this great Republic, and hold them dear; we be-
lieve it to be our destiny yet to rescue that instru-
ment, the Constitution, from the hands of those
who would destroy it. We will remain true to
those principles that have been bequeathed to us
by the fathers of the Republic. But we will not
surrender the convictions of our hearts, or be un-
true to our parents, or untrue to our God—we re-
fuse to make that sacrifice; and, as that motto
reads (pointing to the motto) "Under the Ever-
lasting Covenant, God must and will be glorified."
	(The S. S. children repeated in concert the fol-
lowing prayer:
	Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name. We, the children of Thy people, call upon
Thee in solemn prayer. To-day we celebrate the
advent of the Pioneers into this valley. We ac-
knowledge Thy hand in leading them thither. We
praise Thee for the changes that have been
wrought since their coming. The wilderness has
been turned into fruitful fields; waters have sprung
forth in the desert; and orchards and gardens and
pleasant homes through Thy blessing upon honest
toil, now beautify the land which was then a bar-
ren waste. Plenty smiles on every hand and
peace flows like a gentle stream. Schools and
assembly halls, tabernacles and temples have been
reared for our benefit, and the voice of inspiration 
has guided us in the path of light and life. We
thank Thee for all thy mercies; for Prophets and
Apostles, for revelations and counsels, for parents
and teachers, for thy Holy Spirit, for gifts and 
blessings without number. Yet, Oh Lord, we
mourn the absence of our leaders. Because of
ignorance and iniquity Thy righteous laws are op-
posed, and those who proclaim them by Thine
authority are shut up in prison or driven into exile.
We pray for their deliverance. Fond hearts are 
filled with sadness, the places of loving husbands
and fathers are vacant. We beseech Thee to com-
fort and bless them and all who suffer for the
truth's sake. May the trials through which Thy
people are passing tend to purify Zion, divide the 
righteous from the wicked, hold up the standard
of the Gospel to the world and glorify Thy Name
in the earth. Have mercy upon those who bring
trouble upon Thy people, that they may see their
errors and repent. But may their wicked schemes
fall and their wrath be made to praise Thee. Help
us to be good and true, to walk in the path of the
just, to follow the footsteps of our faithful parents
and to grow up in purity and in honor before Thee.
Bless the Pioneers and their posterity for ever.
Soften the hearts of the rulers of this nation, that
they may do justice to Thy people. Let Thy light
shine! Come to the help of Thy Zion! Glorify
Thy name in the triumph of Thy truth in all the
world! Prepare us for every trial! Give us power
over all evil! We worship and adore Thee as
our Father, our King, and our God. We conse-
crate our lives to Thy service forever, and ask all
and dedicate all to Thee in the name of Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Redeemer. Amen.)
	The Tabernacle choir rendered the part song,
"Now pray we Deseret."
	Sentiment—Jno. C. Cutler, Presidents, Apos-


tles, High Priests, Seventies, Elders and Bishops
Pioneers, in laying the foundation of a great com-
monwealth, and in rearing the glorious fabric of
civil and religious liberty, which has made Utah
the glory of our common country, ye are absent 
from us on the anniversary of this memorable day, 
not for wrongs done to God or man, but because
your virtues contrast so resplendently with the
baseness of the conduct of those who persecute 
you. Ye stand as a living rebuke to the wicked-
ness of this generation. No wonder, then, that
men in power would destroy  you or immure you
from the light of day in prisons and penitentiaries.
We are thankful to our God for giving us such 
leaders, and we ask Him for strength and courage
to emulate your glorious examples. 
	Music by S. S. Union Band, "Nearer, my God,
to Thee," Song by the children, "Hope of
Israel." Music, Beesley's Band, "Dead March 
in Saul." Benediction by Bishop L. D. Young.


