		BY EMILY B. SPENCER

	A tall, slender, dark-eyed girl communed
with herself one fair, bright morning.
	"I will go and see Margaret to-day; it is a
long time since I have visited her."
	They had grown up together, eating their


supper of milk and porridge on each other's 
doorsteps, as they fancied, for their houses
joined. But in later years Margaret's father
had moved away to a small village near Edin-
burgh, and the two girls, now grown, scarcely
met. 
	"Don't go," seemed whispered authoritatively
in Henrietta's ear, "Don't go!" "I will," she
answered to herself, "Margaret is going to be
married." "Don't go," again came the silent
voice, "they are horrible Mormons." Within
her mind a struggle commenced. One still 
small voice said, "Go, and you will always re-
joice." The opposite spirit whispered, "Stay
at home, or you will be scoffed at for visiting
there." 
	Again and again came the pleading voice of
"Courage!" and as often came the warning
voice of "Don't go!" Which was best? Un-
known to her, her future destiny for time and
all eternity lay in that decision. 
	She seemed bound by an invisible power,
but with an effort she roused herself, and giv-
ing a final decision, "I will go," arose and be-
gan to get ready for the pleasant morning walk
with a light and happy heart. Briskly she set
out, and with joy swelling in her heart arrived 
at her beloved Margaret's home. 
	The two girls talked of the past, the present
and the future, and when Hennrietta asked
what the Mormons believed in, Margaret's
father arose, placed his chair before him and
commenced expounding the first principles of
Mormonism, faith, repentance and baptism; 
that everything was done by faith; if we had
no faith we would cease to work or exert our-
selves to obtain anything; that faith healed the
sick—faith performed wonders. Repentance
of all misdeeds and forsaking the same. Bap.
tism for the remission of sins, to be baptized
and buried under the water, symbolical of the 
burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ, which
is essential, which is the only door, the only
entrance to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, which is the only true
church, the only one that He acknowledges.
And for all of his argument he quoted Scrip-
ture, showing that this present Church was 
identically in doctrine the same as that estab-
lished in former days by Christ.
	A new light dawned upon her mind, a new
joy pervaded her heart. "It is true! it is true!" 
she exclaimed. It was because of the truth
that the conflict had been so hard in the morn-
ing, and there was a power to try and stay her
from going. 
	It was the truth that she heard, the truth
that she loved, and the truth that she believed. 
	[To be Continued.]


