IN THE LARGE TABERNACLE.

	The large tabernacle in this city was well filled,
galleries included, with people on Saturday July
24th, the occasion being the anniversary of the
entrance of the pioneers thirty-nine years ago.
The stands were draped in mourning for the absent
ones who are in exile and in prison for conscience
sake. Over the stand of the First Presidency
were conspicuously placed appropriate mottoes.

	“The First Presidency: In exile for Conscience Sake.”

	“Of the Twelve Apostles and Counselors: Those not
here are in jeopardy, in prison, and in foreign lands, be-
cause they prefer to obey God rather than man.”

	“The Presidency of the Stake: Having tasted of the
vengeance of their enemies, and felt their cruel disregard
of law, their labors and visits are like the Angels', seen
only by those who have faith.”

	“Of the Presiding Bishopric: Those who are absent
choose to be wanderers in their own land in preference to
being victims to those who have selected them for ruin.”

   On the top of the front of the organ in large
gilt letters were the words,

	“In God we put our Trust,”

and below,	

	Under the Everlasting Covenant God will and must be
glorified.”

	Beesley’s martial band and the Sunday School
Union band furnished appropriate music. Super-
intendents of Sunday Schools, High Councilors,
Bishops and others,including three of the original
pioneers, occupied the platform, Bishops Lorenzo
D. Young, Millen Atwood and Elder S. Turnbow
Elder John C. Cutler, Assistant Superintendent,
presided.  Elder McIntire had charge of the
children singing. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.,
children singing “Marching Homeward.” Prayer
by Bishop M. Atwood. Song by the children,
“Beautiful Zion.” Music by the S. S. Union
band, “Passing under the Rod.”
	Pioneer address by Bishop O. F. Whitney,who
is a son of H. K. Whitney, one of the Pioneers
(now deceased).
	My Brethren and Sisters: In addressing a few
words to this vast congregation, I shall not at-
tempt to dazzle your minds by a display of oratory.
Even were it in my power I should not deem it
proper on this occasion. I prefer, rather, to have
my words remembered and made use of, to have
them understood by all, and sink, like good seed
npon fertile soil, into the hearts of my hearers, to
bring forth the fruits of life and salvation under
the blessing of God’s Holy Spirit, to His name’s
honor and glory.
	Among our noblest heroes and heroines whom
history has made immortal, are those brave men
and women who have, in different ages of the
world,refused to surrender their sacred convictions
and be untrue to the dictates of their con-
sciences—the voice of God in the human heart
and have left home and country, often despoiled
of their possessions, and have taken their lives
in their hands, bid adieu to their native land, with
all the associations and ties of kindred and affec-
tion, and have gone forth to seek out a new land
where, they might enjoy the rights of conscience


[Column 1]
unmolested, and worship the God of their fathers
in His own appointed way. Such were the chil-
dren of Israel in ancient times, who, led by the
Prophet Moses, shook off the shackles of Egyp-
tian bondage and went forth into the willderness
to worship God according to His command. Such,
also, were the pilgrims of New England who, in
the 17th centuary of the Christian era, fled from
the tyranny of the old world and planted them-
selves on the western shores of the Atlantic;
where, with their descendants, they were instru-
mental in the hands of Providence in establishing
the great government under which we are now
living; in founding a nation whose broad wings of
protection overshadow the oppressed, the tram-
pled on and distressed of all nations, and which
furnishes an asylum, a place of refuge for the
weary exiles of every land. Such also were the
pioneers of Utah who, nine and thirty years ago,
emerged from yonder mountain gorge, into this
then silent and desert valley,and lifted the ensign
of liberty, the flag of our country, and unfurled
its glorious folds from the summit of yon lofty
peak. 
	Living as we do amid the results of their labors,
plucking the fruit from the tree of their planting,
crossing with safety and in ease the chasms they
bridged, and rejoicing even in the midst of sorrow,
in the blessings bequeathed by heaven as the re-
ward of their courage and industry, we can only
conceive to a very limited extent the greatness of
their toils and sacrifices—sacrifices made willing-
ly and labors that were performed patiently from
year to year, that we, their children, and posterity
in general, might enjoy the rich blessings which
their valor, their self-denial and industry have
handed down to us. Utah to-day is the garden of
the interior west. Thirty-nine years ago it was a
wilderness, a desolation, scorched by the sun, and
trodden by the roving red man, whose food con-
sisted in part of wild roots dug from the ground,
reptiles that crawled and hissed and rattled among
the hot rocks of the plain, and the crickets and
grasshoppers that noisily chirped upon the moun-
tain sides. Their music was the scream of eagles,
the melancholy howl of the wolf and the coyote,
the voice of the distant torrent mingling with the
twitter of the mountain bird. Then it was the
heat of the Great American desert; now it blooms
with orchards, farms and vineyards,is dotted with
cities and hamlets, the homes of a peaceable,
prosperous, and (were it not that the cruel hand
of persecution has fastened upon their throats) a
a happy people. We can not realize, I say, the
greatness of the labors and sacrifices that were
necessary to cause this wilderness to bloom, as it
now does, like the garden of the Lord; we can
not conceive of the toils and trials through which
our fathers and mothers passed in order to es-
tablish in this chosen land their children’s feet,
and perpetuate those glorious principles which
are destined to redeem and happify the world.
When the pioneers approached this desolate valley
they were met by an old mountaineer. Colonel
Bridger, who, on learning of their intention to
settle in the valley of Great Salt Lake, exclaimed
in tones of mingled pity and derision. "I will
give a thousand dollars for the first bushel of
wheat you raise in that valley." This will serve
to show, in spite of the envious detractions of
small-souled bigots who fain would lessen the
glory of the pioneers, and the honor due to that
God who so signally preserved and miraculously
delivered them, the amount of labor, courage and
perserverance necessary to redeem this desert
land and make it blossom in its present fragrance
and beauty.
	And who were those pioneers, those founders
of Utah, whose children and associates I have
the honor of addressing? They were exiles for
conscience’ sake, banished from the confines of
civilization, driven forth from a land of Christian
churches by mobs led on and inspired by Chris-

[Column 2]
tian priests, for daring to have opinions of their
own and worship, in their own way the God of
their fathers in a land of religious liberty; thrust
forth from the homes their industry had won,com-
pelled to cross the frozen Mississippi on the ice
in the month of February, leaving their bloody
footprints on the ice of the river and upon its frozen
shores. Starving and naked, stripped of all their
possessions, they refused either to die, to become
discouraged, relinquish their sacred rights, or to
lose for one moment, their faith in their sublime
and glorious destiny. Leaving their burning
city and ravaged fields in the hands of their mer-
ciless oppressors with their wives and little ones
clustered around them, dying by scores as the re-
sult of the inhuman treatment to which they had
been subjected, they drew their shattered rem-
nants out upon the bleak and trackless prairie. A
journey of 1,500 miles, over frozen rivers and
barren plains,a journey marked mile after mile by
the graves of their aged parents, their delicate
wives and tender little ones, brought them to the
Rocky Mountains, and on the Twenty-fourth of
July, 1847, thirty-nine years ago, this day, their
wagons rolled down yonder slope and encamped
upon this silent plain.
	I would have these children remember the
works of their noble fathers and heroic mothers.
I would have them remember the lineage through
which they have come, and strive before God and
the world to be worthy of that lineage. Descended
from Israel of old, who shook off the bondage of
Egypt preferring the wilderness, with its freedom,
to civilization with its chains; the children, too
many of them, of the Pilgrims who came across
the mighty deep from the tyranny of the old world
and laid the foundation upon this chosen land of
the great government under which we live; I
would have them remember, also, that they are
the sons and daughters of patriots, whose hearts
burn and whose blood tingles with the spirit and
genius of liberty; that their fathers and mothers,
even when driven, outcast and exiled for the sake
of their religion, the free exercise of which is
guaranteed under the constitution of our country,
fleeing from the civilization which had refused to
protect them, that they still remained true and
loyal to the principles of liberty. Thirty-nine
years ago, day after to-morrow, they ascended
yonder peak and lifted the ensign of freedom
upon Mexican soil, thereby signifying not only
their loyalty to the country which had thrust
them from its borders, but their determination to
stand by the principles of truth and liberty, to
maintain the palladium of equal rights, the aegis
of protection to the out-cast of all nations.
	This, my young brethren and sisters, fore-
shadowed your destiny, the destiny of the chil-
dren of the pioneers; for the same great prophet
who predicted that the Latter-day Saints would
be driven westward, and become a mighty people
in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, also de-
clared that the time would come when their sons
and daughters would rescue the constitution and
the flag; the glorious stars and stripes, the flag
of freedom, which symbolizes by its stars the
glory and success, and by its stripes the sufferings
and trials of our brave ancestors—that the chil-
dren of this people would rescue them from the
hands of traitors and tyrants who would trample
them in the mire. Remember, therefore, your
destiny and the great things expected of you.
You are not the enemies of this land of liberty;
you are not the foes of freedom; you are not
traitors to your country; you are the sons and
daughters of free men and free women, of patriots
and prophets, pilgrims and pioneers, and it de-
volves upon you to be worthy of your noble
lineage, and lift the standard of liberty and truth
to all the world. God bless you and help you to
realize this destiny is my earnest prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Tabernacle choir, then sung “Might with the

[Column 3]
Right;” Organ Solo “Commemoration March,”
Prof. J. J. Daynes;  Duet, “Sunset” Mrs. Julia
Silverwood and Miss A. Vincent. Elder R. R.
Irvine read in a very clear voice and in an im-
pressive manner a sentiment from the pen of
Zion’s poetess-laureate Eliza R. Snow Smith.

