	MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION AGAIN.

	Mrs. Newman reflects somewhat upon the Utah
Commission, it seems to us, because they have
not been severe enough in their dealings with the
"Mormon" people to meet her approbation. She
says, "After the passage of the Edmunds bill, it
was held by the judges of the courts that registra-
tion could be denied women on the basis of the
invalidity of the Territorial statute. The Utah
Commission were asked to so declare. But while
listening to the argument the commission declined
to act." There is no doubt but that if it had been
possible at any time for the ballot to be taken from
"Mormon" women with any show of legality
whatever, it would have been done. The cases
before the courts in 1879 and 1882 prove plain
enough the fact that the law giving the women of
Utah the ballot was valid, and for that very reason
it could not be taken from them without due pro
cess of law.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Shall the United States
compromise with this quasi-sovereignty under
the specious plea of vested rights." First she
wants to blame the Utah Commission for not push-
ing this matter to the extreme, and then the
United States for a lack of severity. Surely a few
"Mormon" womens' votes are a dreadful annoy-
ance to Mrs. Newman. She says Gentile women
do not care to vote. She says, "The men were
enfranchised by national authority, and in conson-
ance with constitutional provision, the women by
an alien church organization, whieh renders no
allegiance to the government." The women of
Utah had the ballot given to them in the same
way as the women of Wyoming by the legislature
of the Territory and signed by the Governor.
Would Mrs. Newman say the women of Wyoming
and Washington Territories were not entitled to
the ballot? If "Mormon" men are legal voters it
was their vote that elected the Legislature, and
being thus elected, why had they not the right to
pass laws? and if other laws, then why not a law
to confer the elective franchise on women? Mrs.
Newman tells Congress to withdraw this mighty
power in elections—of 12,000 female votes—and
very soon county and municipal Gentile officers
could be elected, and Gentile representatives
chosen for the legislature. Mrs. Newman wants
men to vote, all classes of men in Utah except
that class now already disfranchised. The
drunkard, the gambler, the saloon keeper, those
who would use their utmost influence to destroy
the youth of the land by the sale and use of ardent
spirits and other vile practices of various kinds;
she, a refined and educated woman, would take
the votes from "Mormon" women to throw the
balance of power in favor of those who would 
support such practices. She mourns, as it were,
that the Gentile element is not more strongly rep-
resented, and thinks by substracting 12,000
votes that very soon the Gentile vote will have an
equal proportion, or balance of power. Does she
know what class of Gentiles predominate in the
mining districts, and what fearful consequences
might result from giving them the balance of

[Column 2]
power? She certainly cannot know! Why would
she want sin and crime to abound where purity
and virtue are now the real and true superior in-
fluences? She says the miners are men without
families, or those who have left their families in
the east. Does she realize all that this implies?
Men without families, men who have only self to
think of, who are absorbed in human pleasures?
Men who do not care to build up the country
while here in Utah, or to make homes such as
exercise a refining influence upon the inmates.
Men who pass their days and months in camps,
without the society of gentle, tender, pure woman;
one need not repeat the story of mining camp-life,
nor tell how votes are bought and sold; suffice it
to say, sound principles do not control their votes.
It would be a fearful thing for the Territory of
Utah if the ballot were taken from women to give
such men the balance of power. Those who
know the facts are well aware what the conse-
quences would be. There are Gentile women in
Utah, who do protest against woman's disfranchise-
ment, women of brains and of means; they may
be the exception, and they are not rabid anti-Mor
mons, but they are women of culture and training,
and they know and appreciate the advantages of
political equality and are not willing to have the
right wrested from them after having enjoyed it so
long. But what right has Mrs. Newman or any
other person or class of persons to interfere with
the ballot in the hands of the legal voters of the
women of Utah, who have never even been ac-
cused of disobeying any law, human or divine,
whether they are "Mormons" or Gentiles? The
enforcement of the Edmunds Law upon those
whom the law considers offenders, has already
caused sorrow and hardship enough. It is this
cruel disrupting of families and severing the ten-
derest ties, that is causing women's hearts to
break and filling the land with desolation and
mourning. We say to Mrs. Newman, and to all
such persons, consider your work, for by these
things you will be judged: by a higher court than
the Supreme Court of the United States; these
acts are written in the books that are kept by the
recording angels, and you will have to meet them;
the tears, the sorrow, the cruel separations, the
sickness and death of many in consequence of
these persecutions, will be charged to those who
have wrought this cruel work. Are you prepared
for the consequences? Tender women deprived
of the love, companionship and support of the
husband; little ones left without a father's care;
are there not enough suffering women in the world
and fatherless children?
	O let not these things be laid at your door, but
cease to persecute the Saints, and turn your at-
tention to some noble work in the cause of hu-
manity. Help those who are weak and erring;
"Mormon" women do not need you, they are strong
in the Lord, who is all powerful, and their faith
will not fail, for they know their cause is just and
will yet triumph. We wish no evil to any, but
say to all the principles we are now defend-
ing will be maintained, for they are eternal. There
is no fear in the heart of a true Saint, but strength
and courage and firmness for the right and the
truth, and those who are for this people are more
than those who are against them, for the innumer-
able hosts of heaven are arrayed on the side of
those who are seeking to establish correct princi-
ples and social purity, and no great work has ever
been accomplished without suffering and sacrifice.
Our Savior suffered most of all, and if we would
be like Him we also must endure trials and perse-
cutions until our Father says it is enough, and
"God will protect us in doing what's right."


