MISCELLANEOUS.

	Helen Hunt Jackson always declared she
dreamed her poems—did not compose them
herself.
	Every duty well done adds to the moral and
spiritual stature. Each opportunity eagerly
grasped and used is the key to larger privil-
eges.
	We celebrate nobler obsequies to those we
love by drying the tears of others than by
shedding our own; and the fairest funeral
wreath we can hang on their tomb is not so
fair as a fruit-offering of good deeds.
	No girl, whether from the lowest or the high-
est position, is fit to become a wife, a mistress
of the home, who has not been carefully edu
cated in all the accomplishments and details of-
the kitchen.
	The effect on the health of women produced
by sixteen hours per day of cooking, dish-
washing, sewing, sweeping, baby-tending, and
the numerous other labors that constitute the
sum and substance of housekeeping has never
disturbed the digestion or conscience of men.
They are concerned about the health of those 
women only who enter remunerative occupa-
tions for "higher education."—Indianapolis
Sentinel.
	Courtesy is due to others.  It is helpful to
others. Treat even a base man with respect,
and he will make at least one desperate effort
to be respectable. Courtesy is an appeal to
the nobler and better nature of others to
which that nature responds. It is due to our-
selves. It is the crowning grace of culture,
the stamp of perfection upon character, the
badge of the perfect gentleman, the fragrance
of the flower of womanhood when full blown.
	Most girls, almost from babyhood, if per-
mitted to be with their mothers in the kitchen,
love to see the work done, particularly the
cooking; and nothing delights them more than
to be allowed to attempt to make some simple
article themselves. This early play will not 
be forgotten. Girls that grow up under such
training or indulgence will have no fear of the
real care when it comes to them as a duty.
	Avoid the scolding tone. A tired mother
may find it hard to do this; but it is she who
will get most good by observing the rule. The 
tone of scolding tells upon the throat, just
where a woman who is not over-strong is apt to
feel the ache of extreme fatigue. The child-
ren, too, who are great imitators, will be sure
to catch the scolding tone, and will talk to 
their dolls, to one another, and by-and-by to
their own children, very much as their own
mothers are now talking to them.
	Never let your honest conviction be laughed
down. You can no more exercise your reason
if you live in constant dread of ridicule than
you can enjoy life if you live in constant fear
of death. If you think it right to differ from
the times, and make a point of morals, do it—
not for insolence, but seriously and gravely, as
if a man carried a big soul of his own in his
bosom, and did not wait till it was breathed
into him by the breath of fashion. Be true to
your conviction, and in the end you will not
only be respected by the world, but have the
approval of your conscience.

[Column 2]
	In Garfield County, Nebraska, there are
377 single men and only 68 unmarried
women.
	Miss Gladstone writes in a letter to a friend:
"Papa regrets the results of the elections, of
course, but he is not at all disconcerted. He
is quite happy, and is at this moment reading
'Dante' under a tree."


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 6, 1886, as follows:
	Elizabeth J. Cole, Milwaukee, Wis. Frame
for making rugs.
	Susan O. Grover, Granville, Ohio, Coffin at-
tachment.
	Lizzie McKeogh, Pittsburg, Pa., Foot-pad
for machine treadles.
	Ida H. Westgate, Worcester, Mass., Dress-
protector and stiffener.


[Column 1]
