MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Maricopa Stake convened in the
Society Hall, Mesa City, June 17th, 1886, at
1 p.m., Coun. Susan Savage presiding. There
were present a majority of the officers of the
Stake, also a number of the brethren.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the minutes of the March Confer-
ence were read and accepted. The reports
from the different branches were very favorable,
all being represented with the exception of
Tempe, Coun. Adelade Allen representing the
Mesa Ward, Prest. Lizzie McDonald the Lehi
Ward, and Prest. Ann Klienman, the Almy
Ward.
	A number of the sisters were then called
upon, who spoke briefly, rejoicing in the glori-
ous work we are engaged in, and expressing a
desire to remain faithful to all the principles
of the Gospel.
	Coun. Susan Savage spoke of the various
duties required at our hands to retain a name
and standing with the Saints of the Most High.
Spoke in a forcible manner of the necessity of
complying with the word of wisdom, quoting
from the revelation, showing that it was
adapted to the capacity of all who may or can
be called Saints. "Let us obey these laws, that
we may be enabled to rebuke the power of the
destroyer when he visits our households, for
without we do there is no promise." Gave some
good instructions in regard to the rearing of
children
	Bro. Charles Robson said, "Sister Savage
has preached us a good sermon on the Word of
Wisdom;" felt to bear testimony to its truth-
fulness, also the benefits to be derived from a
faithful observance of it. "The Lord has
warned us, and unless we heed the warnings we
shall have to suffer the consequences." Thought
the sisters were doing a good work. You should
counsel and advise with each other, and use an
influence for good over your husbands and
children." Felt to rejoice in the integrity
shown by our brethren, who were being perse-
cuted for their religion, choosing rather to
suffer bonds and imprisonment than to forsake
one principle of their holy religion.
	Bro. James Allen and A. F. Stewart followed
with encouraging remarks, endorsing the in-
structions which had been given by the brethren
and sisters; felt that the spirit of the Lord had
been poured out in rich abundance.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Savage, con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"God moves in a mysterious way." Benedic-
tion by C. I. Robson.
