BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.) 

	Saturday, the 9th. At Sunset they en-
camped on the banks of "Junction Bluff
Fork," and the grass there being better than
any they had lately seen, it was deemed ex-
pedient to remain there the greater part of
the day, in order to give their horses a chance
to recruit themselves. Here he mentions
their having quite a heavy rain storm the en-
suing morning. They pursued their journey
"at 8 a. m. Proceeding a mile, and forded
a small stream, near which in a stick by the
side of the road was found a few lines from
Amasa Lyman stating that they had left here
on Saturday morning last, and that the night
before they had gone to the bluffs to procure
a supply of meat that they got along rather
slow, not making over between 15 or 20 miles
per day, but were all well and in tolerably
good spirits. Near here we noticed that the
ox teams had encamped, from appearances, 
some 4 or 5 days since. It is the opinion of
most of the brethren that Amasa and his com-
rades are not now more than 30 or 40 miles
ahead of us, and if the ox teams do not 
stop, the brethren weak and faint from living
entirely on meat, must necessarily give up the
chase." This day's journey brought them in
sight of a large cluster of trees. He says: 
	"It is quite cheering to us to come once
more in sight of, and to travel along near the
timber, after being so long debarred of that
privilege."
	Four buffaloes were killed that day and
brought into camp on horses. And another
was killed the next day and brought to camp 
in Brother Woodruff's carriage. The day
following, Wednesday the 13th, after travel-
ing 16 miles they discovered two or three
large herds of buffalo coming down to the
water a little in advance of them. Two
brethren went out and each shot a cow and a
number were sent to assist in skinning them. 
"They were gone until ten o'clock, when they
returned—Orson bringing in quite a supply of
the fattest meat we have seen in some time" 
	On Saturday the 16th they overtook "Amasa
Lyman and his comrades, with the exception 

[Column 2]
of two viz. Stephen H. Goddard and Father
Kellogg. These had left them on Tuesday
last determined yet to overtake the ox teams.
*	*	The brethren all looked considera-
bly fatigued with their travels and were glad 
once more to meet with us. We have but
slight hopes of overtaking the ox teams." *
*	*	Two of the Frenchmen came in
this evening, bringing on their mules part of
two cows that they had killed. 
	"Father Chamberlain broke the iron axle 
tree of his wagon while descending a steep
bank when we forded "Buffalo Creek." 
	"Sunday the 17th. There being few if any
buffalo to be seen below here, and a number
of our horses having given out, it was de-
termined to remain in the vicinity a day or
two, while we could procure some meat and
also recruit the failing strength of our animals. 
Accordingly this morning two captains viz. 
Luke Johnson and John Brown were appointed 
to superintend the hunting expedition to be
undertaken to-day in pursuit of buffaloes. 
Each of them chose their own men and started
out on foot about 9 o'clock a.m.	*	*
About noon a number of wagons were sent out
to bring in buffaloes in case the hunters should 
succeed in killing any." 
	Monday the 18th. Fine cool weather. 
Thomas Woolsy was sent out this morning to
tell the hunters to come in to-night with what
game they had killed, that we might proceed
on our way. We started on at 10 a.m., pro-
ceeding three miles we met a company of
horsemen from Winter Quarters, whose names
are as follows:—
	Hosea Stout, George Grant, G. I. Potter, 
William Kimball, Jacob Frazier, George W. 
Langley, W. I. Earl. W. Miles, W. Martin-
dale, Wm. Huntington, Freeman H. Calkins,
James W. Cummings, S. S. Thornton, Levi
Heikerson, James H. Glines, Chancy Whit-
ney." 
	They had been eleven days coming—had
met the ox teams near the ford of the Loop 
Fork who intended to go on without stopping. 
"With the horsemen came S. H. Goddard, 
Ezekiel Kellogg and Jackson Reddin, the lat-
ter was with Wm. Clayton when he left the
valley. Orson and myself received a letter 
from mother, and myself one stating that they
were all well,etc.'	*	*	After spend-
ing a little time in conversation with the
brethren we went on and encamped at half
past three p.m., having come 10 miles to-day." 
One of those who went out in pursuit of
buffalo brought word that they had secured
enough meat to load the wagons. Further-
more that as "he was returning he saw a large
body of Indians across the river some five or
six miles distant. It was therefore deemed ex-
pedient to send for the brethren to come in to-
night. Accordingly a little after dark Hosea
Stout, Wilber Earl, J. Redden, J. Mathews,
Wm. Huntington, and Wm. Martindale started
out on a horseback for that purpose." 
	"Tuesday the 19th. We remained to-day
encamped. This forenoon Brother Heber, 
Wm. H. Kimball and three or four others
went over the river in pursuit of a large herd
of buffaloes that had lately made their appear-
ance in the vicinity, They returned this
afternoon with a cow." That evening the
hunters who went out on Sunday returned
with those who were sent in pursuit of them. 
"They brought in three wagons which were
loaded down with nine buffalo cows in very
good condition. Hosea Stout and his com-
rades did not find them until this morning. I
stood on guard to-night the 1st and Orson the
last watch. The wolves again to-night enter-
tained us at a distance with one of their 
agreeable (?) concerts." 
	This was their first buffalo-hunt. Much of 
their meat was cut in strips and dried without
any salt after the Indian custom, which they

[Column 3]
called "jerked" meat. Nothing of this is men-
tioned in the journal but I heard it described,
and also ate some of it, which was very palat-
able, though it would be very hard to be tied
to that alone, as they were until they received
the supplies from Winter Quarters. 
	For a time, after the provisions had ran so
low that they had to depend on the killing of
wild game, for subsistence, they indulged once
a week—Sunday—in a thin porridge made of
flour and water. After living so much on meat
it seemed to create an appetite for tobacco,
some who had never previously cared for it
were now eager to get it. The scarcity of the
article made it so valuable that the boys would
make one cud serve them a number of times, 
and they would lay it away carefully as a most
choice morsal. After every other source had
failed, and being in a great strait, my husband,
knowing that Brother Benson kept the weed
for doctoring horses, went and asked him for
a little, which he gave him, and when asked
what the charge was, he was told that he could
return the favor when they got home by com-
ing to his house and singing some songs for
him. This was not written down but was related
to me verbally. 
	Wednesday the 21st he wrote that the camp
was able to move considerably faster than they
had hitherto done in consequence of their rein-
forcement of horses from Winter Quarters. 
He also speaks of the weather being cold, 
cloudy and windy. They continued their
journey "at 9 a.m., proceeding fifteen miles
without making any halt. We encamped at 3 
p.m. in the bed of the river, which was dry
here, between Grand Island and the main 
shore.	*	*	This was one of the best 
camp grounds we had had for some time, se-
cured as we were on every side from the howl-
ing blasts that swept fiercely across the open
prairie.	*	*	The Frenchmen re-
ported this evening that they had discovered
traces of an Indian camp and moccasin tracks
of no older date than last night; therefore, the
brethren were cautioned to watch closely their
horses." On saturday they reached the "Loop 
Fork of Platte River" at three p.m. and en-
camped on its banks,
	"Sunday the 24th, clear weather, though
extremely cold and windy. Two wagons made
several attempts to cross the river this a.m.,
which all proved ineffectual on account of the
high winds and quicksand giving way beneath
the horses feet. One or two horsemen while
urging their horses across the stream, were
thrown from their backs, on account of their
stumbling and sinking in the sand; it was 
therefore decided to defer fording the river 
until to-morrow when the wind might cease
and we have a better chance for crossing." In
the morning there being but little wind stir-
ring they crossed the river, but men had pre-
viously been sent ahead to stake out a track for
them to follow, which, he says after a few of the
wagons had passed over became quite firm. 
We were obliged, however, to double teams,
and in some cases a number of men were
obliged to accompany the wagons, wading in
the water to assist them through. Brother
Kimball and myself both did this and were
quite chilled through, the water being ex-
tremely cold, though not very high. 
	That evening, by counsel, several of the
men "went ahead on horseback to Winter
Quarters to apprise the folks that we were
close by, to allay the anxiety that they might
feel at our prolonged absence from home." 
Amasa Lyman and four others of the pioneers, 
were the messengers and two of the French-
men also accompanied them. 
	My husband speaks of writing a letter for
"Brother Heber to his wife Vilate encourag-
ing her to be of good cheer etc., for we should
be with them in about a week."


