NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Santa Fe. N. M., is to have a monument to
Helen Hunt Jackson of the most fitting kind, 
viz., a Ramona school for Indian girls. She
pleaded for those who are unable to plead for
themselves. 
	In Memphis, Tenn., girls and women are
employed to make a certain grade of jeans 
pants for $1.25 a dozen, and some as low as
$1 a dozen. Shirts that retail for $2.50 are
made by women for eight cents each. Carpet-
sewers, who work about four months in the
year, get from seventy-five cents to $1 a day
of twelve and often fifteen hours. 
	A lady correspondent, writing from Paris,
announces that at a recent wedding in that
city the bride's veil fell to below the waist, and
the orange blossoms, instead of being placed
inside, were on the outside of the veil. The
effect is described as much of an improvement. 
The veil can be gathered around the face
closely, and gives an air of modesty and reverie 
suitable to a woman on the most important
day of her life. The difference does not seem
very great, but before the mandates of Paris
fashions all well-dressed ladies bow. 
	There died a few days ago, at Geneva, a lady
named Elise Darier, who, though her life had
been neither noteworthy nor eventful, was re-
markable as being the last surviving Gene-
voise born under the old republic, and who
could remember its conquest by the French di-
rectory. When the French troops took pos-
session of the city in 1798, Elise Darier was
six years old, and the event made such an im-
pression on her mind that she never forgot it. 
In 1800 she saw General Bonaparte at Coppet, 
as he rode through the village in a post chaise
on his way to join the army of Italy, sur-
rounded by a brilliant staff and a guard of
Mamelukes. When a little older she danced
at a ball given by Mme. de Stael, and in 1814
at another, given by the city of Geneva to the
Austrian General Bubna, after the defeat and
withdrawal of the French army of occupation. 
As Mlle. Darrier had an excellent memory,
and retained her faculties unimpared to the last
day of her long life, she was regarded in
Geneva as an almost historic character, and
enjoyed general respect as the sole surviving
link with an eventful past.	Ex.


