THE STEPPING STONE IS SACRIFICE.

Dedicated to our brethren in prison and to all who suffer
	for conscience sake.
	 	Lo, verily "He doth not sleep
		   Who keepeth Isr'al night and day;
		A rich reward they yet shall reap
		   Who serve him always, come what may.

		Fools will deride and laugh to scorn
		   The righteous, when the wicked rule,
		But never are the just forlorn,
		   Though tutor'd in Affliction's school.

		"Elijah's God," who speaks by fire,
		   From seething depths or lurid skies,
		His own with patience doth inspire—
		   In patience compensation lies.

		And wherefore should the faithful shout
		   For God to show His strength and power;
		To shift Eternal plans about,
		   And hasten heaven's appointed hour.

		No less than this the wise expect—
		   To wrestle for the promised crown—
		To share the fate of God's Elect,
		   Even from "righteous Abel" down.

		Oh, not on "flowery beds of ease"
		   Do Saints or heroes mount the skies
		To heaven's supreme felicities—
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice!

		"Through tribulation," even so
		   The King of Glory led the way;
		"Perfect, indeed, through suffering," lo,
		   Our "Intercessor" lives to-day.

		Surely He counteth ev'ry tear—
		   In whom the pure of heart rejoice,
		And yet shall boastful scorners fear
		   The thunders of Jehovah's voice!

		Friends may accuse and men abuse
		   The just, and bid them bow the knee—
		Our God His own good time will choose
		   To set His captive children free.

		"Elijah's God!" to Thee we cry!
		   But not in dread and not in doubt,
		Though Zion's foes should multiply,
		   Thy power will bring her safely out.

		Assured Thou hearest just complaints,
		   Father, in faith on Thee we call;
		Soothe and support Thy suffering Saints,
		   Who even now are held in thrall.
	
		Behold thy people in the dust;
		   Consider all who kiss the rod;
		Strengthen the souls who in Thee trust,
		   Thou mighty one! "Elijah's God!"

		Lord, grant us grace to run "the race"—
		   Cowards can never win the prize;
		To joys in store for evermore,
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice.

