			FRIENDS.

	While thinking upon our little gathering to-
night, I stopped to ask myself the question,
"By what power are we thus drawn together?
What was the motive of our beloved hostess
in bidding us welcome to her hospitality, and
what the motive of us, her chosen friends, in 
yielding a hearty response?  Surely selfishness
was not the motive power that incited to ac-
tion in the first case—methinks it has all been
wrought by the law of kindness, by the sweet
spirit of friendship, which ever seeks to bless,
and in turn is capable of appreciating bless-
ings when bestowed.
	We have met, not to enrich ourselves finan-
cially—some are weary of this labor, and seek
rest—but we all desire to enrich the spirit and 
satisfy the craving of our social natures, which,
according to the design of our Creator, occu-
pies so large a space in the formation of hu-
man character, and which, if undeveloped or
neglected, robs mankind of much happiness,
and also deprives him of great power to create
happiness for others.  Therefore, I esteem it a 
duty we owe each other—to meet often, not
merely with the desire to be entertained—the
very thought is born of selfishness, but to en-
tertain, to make others for a time forget the 
cares and trials which daily and hourly oppress
them, to lift them into a more elevated and 
cheerful atmosphere, where they may feel re-
freshed and renewed.  Thus we lift ourselves,
and by concealing whatever may be our special
thorn in the flesh, we forget that one exists,
and often, by the power of association, we
learn how to lay many of our burdens down,
and in their place we carry away more ex-
tended views and new ideas to assist us in our
srtuggles through life.  Samuel Smiles says,
"A life exclusively occupied in affairs of busi-
ness insensibly tends to narrow and harden the 
character.  It is mainly occupied with self,
watching for advantages and guarding against
sharp practices on the part of others.  Thus
the character unconsciously tends to grow sus-
picious and ungenerous."
	While this may be true regarding a business
life, which usually falls to the lot of man, the 
sphere usually occupied by women, that of the 
home and family, tends in another direction;
not to harden the character, for there is so
much in woman's lot constantly requiring ac-
tive sympathy and tenderness, but it tends to a


contraction of mind power, to weariness and
discontent of spirit by its monotony and in-
creasing physical toil, and the mental powers
in time become dwarfed, and aside from that
particular species of intelligence requisite in
controling home affairs, she becomes powerless
to act successfully, and much of the power
and intelligence with which she is endowed
lies dormant, which, according to God's
economy is all wrong. Intelligence, wisdom, 
talents and various other gifts and graces be-
stowed upon woman were never intended to
waste their sweetness and power upon the 
desert air. And in social life what would so-
ciety be without the exquisite social qualities
of woman? Like dancing without music, like
Nature devoid of bird, song and flowers. 
	So woman's social nature should never be 
neglected; and we, above all women, should
never allow our reunions to descend into
mere gossiping associations, but each should
polish up her store of gifts and graces 
for the purpose of benefiting others, seek-
ing always for the inspiration of God's 
Holy Spirit to descend like the gentle
dews of heaven upon all our efforts, that
each and all may truly be refreshed, and also
be reminded that our association here is but
typical of that which we are destined to enjoy
in the eternal worlds. 
