BEAR LAKE SRAKE.

	Minutes of Y. L. conference of Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Idaho, July 18th, 1886,
at 10 a.m., Prest M. E. Pugmire presiding.
Singing, "Thou dear, redeeming, dying Lamb."
Opening prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"All hail the glorious day. The Roll was
called, showing a fair representation. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Prest. Pugmire then called for verbal re-
ports, and the following associations were re-
presented: St. Charles, Sarah A. Allred;
Garden City, Amy E. Cook; Lake Town, Mrs.
Willis; Randolph, Elizabeth South; Blooming-
ton, Mary Patterson; Montpelier, Bianca Os-
borne; Woodruff, Paris 1st Ward, Paris 2nd
Ward, and Ovid not represented. The statisti-
cal and financial report for six months, end-
ing June 30th, 1886, was read showing an in-
crease of members and a fair condition of
finances.
	Coun. Amy E. Cook. Spoke encourag-
ingly, laying before them the duties and
responsibilities that rest upon each and every
member, in order to advance the association
they belong to. Admonished the sisters to
live so that they could accept every principle
advanced, for we were not taught anything but
that which was pure, elevating, and calculated
to make us good and wise. The opposition
with which we were contending would prove
who would bear the cross and wear the crown;
that a life of integrity, faith and good works
will entitle them to. We should be kind when
we felt to rebuke, and not resort to coercive
measures.
	Bro. Folstead then addressed the conference,
taking for his text, "Was woman's mission in-
ferior to man's?" showing the responsibility
that rests upon the mother, and the necessity
of the proper exercise of that authority which
a mother should wield in her family; as there
was no position on earth more important than
that of motherhood, was she fulfilling her duty
as the layer of the foundation stone of the great
temple of humanity? She should be good,
wise and learned, for they are the first teachers
of the young, and should be a perfect example
of honesty, uprightness and virtue, as any little
dereliction from the straight line of truth will
be copied. "Try to exercise a spirit of for-
bearance however tedious the enquiries may
seem, and teach them how to become good
housekeepers and desirable companions in life,
and that virtue is above prize.
	Sister L. M. Rich was much impressed with
the timely remarks of the speaker, who had
preceeded her, and hoped they would make
a lasting impression; thought too much import-
ance could not be attached to the subject laid
before us. Several cases had come under her
observation while in Salt Lake City, not long
since, where girls, through contaminating in-
fluences and the machinations of evil and de-
signing men, had been brought to dishonor and
shame. Thought that a calico dress and a
pure heart free from guile was far preferable
to the finest apparel, gotten at the sacrifice of
virtue and honor; and also they realize when
too late, and would give all to be back among
friends and associates of the past. "We should
seek each day for the Spirit of God to dictate
our movements, and that will prove a shield
and protection at all times." Felt to thank
our Heavenly Father for the peaceable surround-
ings and the blessings we are daily recipients
of.
	Singing, "Blessed are the people," etc.
Benediction by Vincent Pugmire.

