WOMAN’S MEETING AT AMERICAN
FORK.

	A special meeting of the Relief Society was
held in the meeting house of American Fork
Thursday, July 15th, President Mary S. Hind-
ley presiding. Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells of this city were present by invi-
tation. Bishop Bromley, his Counselors and
other brethren, also officers of the Relief So-
ciety, occupied seats upon the platform.
	Sister Eliza, whose name is familiar to this
people as a leader among the sisters, addressed
the meeting both in the morning and afternoon
sessions. Her great age and venerable appear-
ance, her stately and dignified manner, her
choice language and clear and concise method
of expression,together with her long and varied
experience in the Church all combine to give
weight and emphasis to her wise counsel and
earnest exhortation, and on this occasion, par-
ticularly, her words could not fail to make a
deep and lasting impression upon all who were
privileged to see and hear her, for her dis-
course was even more than ordinarily eloquent
and prophetic.


Bishop Bromley spoke a short time at the
close of the morning meeting. He made an
eloquent and forcible appeal to the sisters and
mothers in regard to the position they occupied
and their duties to the young and rising genera-
tion, and complimented the members of the
Relief Society on the efficiency of their labors,
which he seemed fully to appreciate and com-
prehend. He alluded feelingly to his recent 
indictment and probable imprisonment for liv-
ing his religion and obeying a divine com-
mandment, and spoke with great firmness and
courage of his convictions, and in reference to
the situation of affairs in Utah at the present 
time. Many interesting remarks were made
by other sisters calculated to strengthen, bless
and encourage the Saints. The speakers were
Sisters Mary John, of Provo; Elizabeth Brown, 
of Pleasant Grove; Rebecca Standring, Lehi; 
Margaret McCullough, Alpine; and E. B. 
Wells, Salt Lake City. President Hindley
and Counselor Crompton made closing remarks, 
expressing their enjoyment in the testimonies 
that had been borne by those who had spoken, 
and thought that the exercises throughout were
calculated to inspire to renewed dilligence and
faithfulness. An excellent spirit characterized 
the entire proceedings. The meeting closed
with singing, "The spirit of God like a fire is 
burning." Benediction by Bishop Bromley.


