				NOPLE.

	“Get up and see what has happened to our
street during the night,"  said my companion,
when he arose this morning.  These dogs,
thought I, that had disturbed my slumbers so
often during the night, have been committing
some depredations.  I was mistaken.  It is St.
John’s Day, and the street was decorated from
one end to the other by flags suspended from
ropes, which had been stretched across the
street.  It was a pretty sight to behold almost
every national flag gently unfolding itself to

[column 2]
the breeze, and especially interesting was it to
see suspended near our window the stars and
stripes—emblems of liberty—our national flag.
It was the only American one to be seen, and
its place so near our window made it doubly
attractive.  All was preparatory to a grand
procession of the Roman Catholics in honor of
the day.
     At an early hour crowds thronged about.
People gathered from different parts of the
city at the houses of their friends and acquaint-
ances to view from the balconies and windows
the procession, which was to take place at four
in the afternoon, but was an hour late.  The
spectators came to be looked at, too, and the
elegant costumes of fashionable society in Con-
stantinople played an important part on the
occasion.  The manner, though, in which the
Christian ladies had painted their faces showed
less skill than that of the Turkish beauties;
but I think the Christian methods of ornament-
ing the arms and ears with jewelry more taste-
ful than those of the Arab ladies, who wear
rings in the nose.  All day long the people
have been crowding the windows and balconies
to see and be seen.  The gentlemen appeared
mostly in American style, many with their hair
parted in the middle and plastered down with
grease.  It might be said, we were envious be-
cause our hair would not part in the middle, or
because we did'nt have any to part.  Be that
as it may, we assumed the role of spectators,
and took the liberty to criticise what did not
suit our tastes and prejudices in that curious
life one sees for the first time when he enters
the ORIENT.  I always thought it bad taste for
a man to part his hair in the middle unless he
was pretty and had small feet.  There was a
light breeze, which made it favorable for pass-
ing the day in gossip. 
	At the appointed hour the street was packed.
The music from the brass band first gave the
signal of the approach of the procession, then
the ladies with their baskets full of rose leaves
stood ready to shower them upon the heads of
the priests.  The first to make their appearance
were the little children, girls about six years
old, who led the march in two single files, about
ten feet apart.  Between the files, and distant
a hundred feet from each other, were little
girls, scarcely able to walk, carrying an an-
chor, a cross, or a picture of some patron saint.
Banners, representing scenes in the life of
Christ and His Apostles, were numerous. After
the little girls dressed in white came the
orphans of the Jesuit schools.  What excited
our curiosity next were a dozen young ladies
under training for their calling as nuns; on
this occasion they were partly veiled.  Then
came the nuns and after them the priests, many
of whom struck a religious attitude, by throw-
ing their heads back, looking up to heaven
and holding their hands folded across the
breast.  One carried a carved figure represent-
ing the Savior with His bleeding wounds; but
the multitude was awakened to its greatest in-
terest when the bishop, an aged man, beneath
a silk canopy, carried by four men, made his
appearance.  His flowing silk robes were
carried by two small boys following a little be-
hind and on each side.  And now the air was
filled with rose leaves, gently falling upon the
canopy and heads of the priests who accom-
panied the bishop, a glimpse of whose face the
multitude tried to catch behind a golden sphere
he carried in his hands, and from which radiat.
ing disks represented the illuminations of

[column 3]
godliness.  A smile, however, crossed the
faces of many of the spectators when the band
started up a German Air—Du bist verruckt
mein kind—“Thou art crazy, my child.”
	There was much pomp and a grand display.
The street is now deserted, and when we had
taken a last glimpse of the priests’ shaved
heads glistening in the sunlight as they disap-
peared, we drew our heads back through our 
windows and began to discuss the curious fea-
tures of a Roman Catholic procession on St.
John's Day.  The Jesuits, who were recently
driven out of France, are strongly represented
here.  A strange comment—Christians driven
out of a Christian land find an asylum among
the Mohammedans, who are more tolerant to-
ward Christians than Christians are toward
one another. The Turks have always offered
protection to religious refugees from Christian
Europe.
	Constantinople, June 27, 1886.


