SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference was held in the
14th Ward Hall, June 25th, 1886. On the
stand were Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. B.

[Column 3]

W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and the Secretary,
Mrs. E. Howard. After singing and prayer
and roll called, minutes of the last conference
were read and accepted. First Ward reported
by Prest. Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor;
Third, Coun. Smith; Sixth, Prest. Fullmer;
Seventh, Coun. Woodbury; Nineth, Prest. S.
E. Groo; Tenth, Coun. Harrison; Eleventh,
Prest. McMaster; Twelfth, Prest. Druce;
Thirteenth, Coun. L. A. Wells; Fourteenth,
Coun. M. W. Wilcox; Fifteenth, Coun. R.
Jones; Sixteenth, Prest. Reid; Seventeenth,
Prest. B. W. Smith; Nineteenth, Coun. Neal;
Twentieth, Coun. Barton; Twenty-first, Coun.
Davis; Hot Springs, Prest. Fulsom; Big Cot-
tonwood, Prest. Howard; South Jordan, Prest.
Holt; Brighton, Prest. Hazon; Riverton, a
Coun.; Sandy, Coun. Wilson; Granger, Prest.
Porter.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remasks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Prest. Horne addressed the sisters upon
their duties in the Society, and the care and
training of children, observing the Sabbath
day, and spoke upon the storing of grain for
a day of famine.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark, of Farmington, spoke
upon our spiritual needs, and her disapproval
of the Saints following after the fashions of
Babylon, the power of the evil one, the neces-
sity of obeying the commandments of God,
also upon the work in the Temples for the
living and the dead.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball made a very im-
pressive speech, in which she spoke upon
charity and humility, the comforting of others,
and exhorted the daughters of Zion not to
follow after the fashions of Babylon, and to
attend the meetings, partake of the sacra-
ment, etc.
	Dr. Ferguson said, "Our enemies are trying
to deprive us of the blessings we now enjoy;
the time has come when we will have to be a
light unto ourselves; our leaders are away from
us; and the time may come when we will have
no one to counsel with, therefore we should
use the privileges we have to good advantage.
Here our enemies have nothing else to do but
think of how they can pervert the laws to our
detriment, but in the world we are looked upon
as the down-trodden women of Utah.	*	*
In Washington there is immense wealth and
grandeur, and there is extreme poverty and
distress; 7000 poor are languishingly in want
of the comforts of life.	*	*	*	*
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the memberships
now due to the Deseret Hospital, and also re-
ferred to the Society donations, also earnestly
advised the sisters in the Relief Society to look
after the poor, the needy and the suffering,
that they might not come under condemnation
by neglecting their duty to them.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "Those who preside
over the different branches are absolutely re-
quired to report at our conferences, by either
the president, a counselor, teacher or member;
some one will have to see to this duty. We
have many energetic sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, and we are required to represent our-
selves; we will see the day when we will be
glad that our names were enrolled in the So-
ciety; we ought to be interested in the Y. L.
M. I. A., visit the meetings and help the young
girls in their duties, and encourage them by
our presence."
	Prest. Horne thought we should have two
days for meetings, "for we do want more
spiritual food for our improvement. We in-
tend now to hold our conference on Thursday,
so the Y. L. can hold theirs on Friday and the
Primary on Saturday." She spoke of her call
upon Gov. West; said he listened to her polite-
ly; said, "We explained to him our brethren
could not break their covenants. He seemed


quite interested when we told him our posi-
tion. Our enemies are accomplishing the pur-
poses of God; let us stand to what we profess;
we want to be on the Lord's side." Hoped we
might have the Spirit of God in our homes.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Glory to God on high," etc. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard.


