		  PAST AND PRESENT
	"When the wicked rule the people mourn."

	Verily, verily, is the truth of this saying verified
in these mountain vales. How strikingly appro-
priate to our present condition, the emblems of
sorrow and mourning, in the celebration of this
auspicious day—the opening day when this
American Desert, which had slept for many ages
and generations, was awakened from its deadly
slumber to be robed in all the beauty and loveli-
ness of cultivated nature, produced by the hand
of arduous toil, of a people peeled and driven.
	But God was with us, and His Blessings gave
efficacy to the labor of our hands.
	The country which banished us is the land of
my birth, and the time has been when I was
proud to call it my own. Then it was a beacon
of light to nations afar—an asylum for the home-
less and the oppressed of all peoples. Then its
statesmen were men with souls—not greedy for
gain, but devoted to the interests of humanity,and
holding national honor dearer than life. Then
its courts—its seats of justice and Congress halls,
were receptacles of trust, honor and confidence.
Civil and religious liberty were guaranteed to all,
and bequeathed to coming generations by the
sacred and glorious Constitution inspired by the
Almighty.
	Such was my country, and then my heart
swelled with pride that I was an American citizen.
But now, alas! I am forced to exclaim, “How are
the mighty fallen?’ Where are the Washingtons,
the Adamses, and the Jeffersons of the other day?
Beneath our sheltering flag, Joseph Smith my be-
loved husband, the choice of my heart and the
crown of my life—a Prophet of the living God,
and by Him appointed to open the last dispensa-
tion—an innocent man, guilty of no crime, was
cruelly assassinated in Carthage, Illinois, while
under the plighted protection of the governor of
that State. And now his blood and that of his
brother Hyrum, who was murdered at the same
time, cries for vengeance from the gronnd. The
mantle of protection was thrown around the
assassins, the foul perpetrators of that horrid
deed, and not one move has been made to bring
them to justice, and that crime now rests on
our national escutcheon.
	But God did not look with indifference on that
atrocious deed, and He does not forget its perpe-
trators—as far as known, not one of them has
died a natural death. The horrid wail has been
wafted on the breeze of maggots holding carni-
vals in their flesh, until, although in horrible fear
of what awaited them beyond, they earnestly
prayed for death. God, the avenger of unrecom-
pensed guilt, will surely mete out justice in His
own time. Justice will claim its own. 
	In these once peaceful, happy vales, where
from every saintly dwelling the songs of praise
and thannksgiving ascended on the morning and
evening breeze, when the right to worship God
according to the dictates of conscience was un-
restrained, when domestic peace and happiness
were unmolested, this ever memorable day was
crowned with gaiety, innocent mirth, rejoicing
and thanksgiving. Fathers and mothers, parents
and children were happy in each others’ society.
Now, where are the fathers? Some of them to
evade the merciless hand of persecution are vol-
untary exiles in foreign countries. Many of them
are wasting their time and energies in the dreary
confines of loathsome prisons in our own land—a
land of boasted freedom and equal rights.
	Our leaders, whose genial presence was wont
to cheer us, and whose wise counsels, emanations


[Column 1]
from God, were as the Polar star, are no longer
in our midst—wives and children are left without
their natural protectors; and all this for conscince'
sake. The blessings of home, "sweet home,"
the foundation of all natural greatness, and grand
incentive to all that is desirable, elevating, and
ennobling in human life, are now being wrested
from us by unscrupulous government officials.
The very people who opened up a path in the 
desert—who, by unparalelled toil and privation
have, through the blessing of God made this, the
once dreary and desolate region, to blossom as
the rose, until it has excited the envy and greed
of the spoilers of our peace and prosperity, are
now being robbed of those constitutional rights
and liberties guaranteed to American citizens by
our forefathers. 
	In my lone widowhood I have had one dear
brother—one of my father's family, with whom I
have often taken sweet counsel. Where is he
now?  Incarcerated in prison—like a felon con-
fined within grated bars, and clad in a felon's suit.
What has he done? He has held sacred and in-
violate all constitutional laws of our country, and
the unconstitutional one he has fully obeyed.
Then why in prison? Persecution has driven
him there. The highest judicial court in these so
called United States—the court of last resort, to
which he appealed, acknowledged its imbecility—
it is powerless in melting out justice to the Latter-
day Saints, and my brother has no alternative.
	Under the circumstances which now surround
us, the sable drapery—the insignia of mourning
becomes the occasion."
	Singing, "Beautiful Day" by the children. The
Articles of Faith of the Latter-day Saints
were then recited by forty-two boys and girls; Ad-
dress by Elder B. H. Roberts,

