Morale: What Does It Mean To Me? Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School
PSYCHOLOGICAL warfare has kept pace in importance with physical combat in the present war. Propaganda warfare was begun long before the first gun was fired. This mental preparation of armies and civilians for war is what we call morale. Military capitulations are always preceded by a collapse of morale. Morale has been more explicitly defined as a "condition of physical and emotional well-being in the individual that makes it possible for him to work and live hopefully and effectively, feeling that he shares the basic purposes of the groups of which he is a member; and that makes it possible for him to perform his tasks with energy, enthusiasm, and self-discipline, sustained by a conviction that, in spite of obstacles and conflict, his personal and social ideals are worth pursuing." (Report of conference under auspices of National Research Council, Division of Anthropology and Psychology. See Psychology Bulletin, 1941, 35, pp. 393-4.) This definition will bear repeated reading and careful analysis. The person with high morale works hopefully and cooperatively to accomplish the common purpose, in spite of all frustration. This may involve personal sacrifice of many degrees, from reducing one's sugar consumption to giving one's life or the life of one's son. Unshakable belief in the righteousness of one's cause is an indispensable condition for making the supreme sacrifice. This faith must resemble in some ways that of the Christ as he walked into Gethsemane to offer his life for the sins of the world, for the preservation of the ideal of human brotherhood and peace on earth.
IF our morale for the war is to be high, we must first of all find a basis for deep conviction that our cause is right and worth dying for if necessary. Let us, then, search our souls for a basis for this conviction. First of all, let us realize that we are at war and that, dislike it as we may, we must fight and sacrifice severely in one way or another. What is there in Latter-day Saint belief and tradition to justify our wholehearted support of the war effort? We as a group dislike war as intensely as any people do, but our history is replete with examples of pioneer courage and self-sacrifice. Why did our pioneer forefathers suffer the hardships of being driven from Missouri and Nauvoo, of being harassed by hostile Indians and the ever-present dangers of the elements while searching for a new home in the West? Why do many of our grandparents and great-grandparents lie in lonely graves far from the goal they sought in the mountains? Why could Joseph Smith and other martyrs face death so courageously? They all could have chosen the easy way and capitulated to the enemies of freedom. But no! They had faith in their ideals! Their morale was so high that no obstacles could defeat them. Their faith knew no fear, not even death. And let us today burn into our minds what that belief means: the right to worship according to the dictates of our own consciences! Our sons today may be called upon to spill their blood for the same cause their pioneer forefathers did. This is illustrious company. We must realize that of all of the freedoms, religious freedom is most challenged today by godless tyrants and pagans consecrated to the destruction of Christianity. Christianity to them is the prattle of the weak, the opiate of the democracies. The attack on all religious freedom is already clearly outlined. It consists first of destruction or desecration of the monuments of religion the shrines and sacred buildings. Then religious leaders are restricted in their activities either by concentration camps or rigid curtailment of freedom of speech and assembly. The dictator states tolerate no rival loyalties, no religion but that of rule by force. The state, and the state alone, is master. To them, the church and the home are the cradles in which weakness is nurtured, and they must give way to the strong ways of the state. Think what would become of the Latter-day Saint ideal of the home should we lose the war! The family unit would be destroyed, and everyone would be slaves to the military order. The good life we know, based on peace, freedom, and plenty, would be substituted by a group life in which all luxuries would be gone and many of the necessities. A regimented society would replace all freedoms. Many Latter-day Saints have been "fighting mad" with perhaps some of the same spirit with which the Christ drove the money-changers from the temple ever since the dictator nations began oppressing weaker peoples. Latter-day Saints need look no further than the recent history of these many oppressions to find Christian justification for deep and righteous indignation toward all military aggressors. We should realize, perhaps even more keenly than other peoples, what this means, for was not our right to worship and live in peace threatened for nearly half a century by hostile neighbors? Christianity is threatened as almost never before in its two thousand years of history. It is a religion of peace; but when the peace-loving are bled and starved to death, it must marshal all of its potential strength to save itself. And Christianity can be effective in war because it means brotherly cooperation and personal sacrifice for the common good. Righteousness has never had an easy time of it. Its champions must be strong men and women who can prove through courage and sacrifice that they are worthy of freedom. The forcible prevention of cruelty and injustice is as noble an ideal as any in the Christian faith. If democracies fail to cope with the present crisis, it will not be because we are Christian, but because we are not Christian enough. It will be because we do not fully realize what tragedy may come to innocent people when we are not diligent in our war effort. Every personal right and luxury we cling to in opposition to the war effort may contribute to the loss of life of some of our sons in the forces, or death, or
MORALE: WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO ME? 261 worse, to unprotected peoples at home or abroad. Our 262 sons must risk their lives in great numbers immediately to help save through united effort the lives of all combat forces in small numbers all over the world, as well as the lives of innocent women and _ children who will suffer in all parts of the world for every day of delay. Our enemies have great hope that we will choose the temporarily pleasant course of delaying our sacrifices, and that enough defeats can be scored against us in the meantime to effectively prevent our building up the necessary morale to take the offensive in the war. If we can make Christianity function with all of its potential strength, we need have no fear for the future. Freedom and righteousness will prevail, but not until we burn into our hearts the conviction of the true worth of human life and the value of freedom and the privilege of worshiping according to the dictates of our consciences. During our easy years of peace and plenty, we have perhaps lost some of the vision of how intolerable life would be without freedom. The Latter-day Saint pioneers paid a great price for the same cause, and they appreciated freedom in proportion to the sacrifice. We will, likewise, purify our own souls through sacrifice and arise phoenix-like from the ashes of this world-wide disaster, men and women more capable of living responsibly as free souls. THE importance of high morale as the first condition for successful war effort is fully realized by our enemies. Every effort will. Be made to impress us with our own weaknesses and the unworthiness of our aims. The enemy will shout our dethe principal battlefields. feats into our ears. Spoken, or worse, attacks will be made against our shores to intimidate us into demanding that most of our forces be kept at home and, therefore, away from Efforts will be made by the enemy to impress us of their humane treatment of prisoners and civilians. We shall be bombarded with propaganda about the righteousness of the enemies' cause to distract us from their evil designs to destroy all freedoms. But high morale impels people to work hopefully and enthusiastically, in spite of obstacles and setbacks. As we work hopefully in this great crusade for freedom, our spirits are sure to rise. Our confidence in our ability to win will increase in harmony with our progress in preparing for the war. Our confidence at home will be an important factor in keeping the morale of the troops at a high level. As our morale improves, theirs is bound to improve. The more thoroughly we sacrifice, the more they will feel we are supporting them in very deed as well as in spirit. We should accept as our first duty today the task of building up our own morale through every possible means. A passive attitude will not build or sustain morale, or win wars. Careful investigations have shown that morale improves with the following conditions: 1. Deep religious convictions. They help the group to work more effectively, and they help the individual to withstand hardships and disappointment. 2. Active participation in worth-while activities related to war purposes. 3. Increase in useful skills in war work, civilian defense, or essential activities of the church and other organizations. 4. Comradery in activities of the group (Continued on page 292)