In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER IV Marriage and Graduate Study N September 9, 1896, I was married in the Salt Lake Temple to Richard R. Lyman. President Joseph F. Smith (Uncle Joseph to the Lyman family) performed the ceremony. Following this, President Smith gave us a blessing in his tender and affectionate manner, which I shall never forget. Marriage for time and eternity at the altar in the temple is most impressive, thrilling and sacred. It is one of the greatest privileges that the Church offers. 'The feeling of the permanence of the union and the concept of the family relationship of parents and their offspring both here and hereafter, is very comforting and satisfying. This sacred ceremony, together with the peaceful and beautiful surroundings, lifts one above the common things of life into a spiritual atmosphere which is satisfying to the soul. From the temple we went directly to the home of my new husband's sister, Mrs. William H. King, on East South Temple Street, where she and the Senator gave a lovely wedding breakfast in our honor for the members of our families. In the evening we retired to our own home in Salt Lake City which we had rented and, with the aid of a relative, had previously prepared. Our pre-wedding trip from Pleasant Grove to Salt Lake City took a whole day. Our outfit consisted of a buggy, in which we ourselves rode, and a wagon containing furniture and the bride's trousseau. Our previously purchased cow was led behind the wagon. Being country bred, we could not conceive of a real home without at least a cow and some chickens, and the kitchen garden, which we planted in the spring. The bride's trousseau, which had been in preparation for four years, included an ample supply of bed, hand, and table linen, the latter hand-hemmed and wrought so finely by the bride's mother that the stitches were invisible; blankets from Provo Woolen Mills, lovely homemade quilts, thin ones for summer and heavy ones for winter, filled with white wool; goosedown pillows, and a twenty-five-pound feather bed. The personal wardrobe, which was considered quite stylish, had been fashioned by a Salt Lake dressmaker. Our home was near the University of Utah, located at that time on Second North and Second West Streets. My husband, professor of civil engineering in the University, drew up and established the first course in engineering given in the school, and he served as a member of the faculty of the institution for the next twenty-six years. The University faculty at that time consisted of twenty very excellent teachers. Living so near the University just across the street I registered for work in English and history. During this period I had the privilege Page 263 264 of joining a study group known as the Author's Club, which consisted of twenty prominent Latter-day Saint women, some of the finest and most intellectual women it has been my privilege to know, and some of the most cherished friends of my whole life. This group, which is now forty-nine years old, today meets regularly. 'Two of the charter members still belong to the group, and the regular membership is still twenty. Many of the early members have passed on, yet the spirit and aim of the group remain the same, that of earnest, intellectual effort for self-improvement and development. IMMEDIATELY after our marriage we began to budget our income carefully with the view of paying off as rapidly as possible the school debt of my husband, amounting to $2,500. This amount had been borrowed during his four years of study at the University of Michigan. It carried interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. Through the exercise of thnft and strict economy the debt was paid in six years, and in the spring of 1902, sabbatical leave coming to him and also a scholarship award from Cornell University, he decided to enter that institution in the fall for graduate study. Our plan also included attendance at Chicago University for the summer quarter of 1902, immediately at hand. We left Salt Lake City early in June with our young son, Wendell Brown, and were soon located in a comfortable apartment near Chicago University. Besides ourselves, our household consisted of our two sisters, Ida and Amy Lyman, Professor Alice Louise Reynolds, of the Brigham Young University, and Miss Matilda Peterson, of the State school office. There were in attendance at Chicago University at this time thirty Utah students. This summer at Chicago University was interesting throughout. Living just off the campus we were in close touch with the University and with college life in general. President Harper was then at the height of his popularity. We were privileged to meet him personally a number of times and to hear many of his fine lectures. He was a most progressive president with a marvelous personality. As a public speaker he was forceful, dynamic, and convincing. He constantly urged students to devote themselves wholeheartedly to study and to place their aims in life high. Many college people today who hold advanced degrees are indebted to President Harper for the inspiration and encouragement he gave them to go on to higher attainment. It is little wonder that he was able to induce wealthy men to make large endowments to Chicago University. During this summer John D. Rockefeller, Chicago University's greatest benefactor, visited and inspected the school and showed his appreciation and satisfaction by increasing his already enormous contribution. Dr. Harper was especially interested in and attentive to the graduate students, and during the summer quarter he held several receptions for them at his home. While my summer at Chicago University was only incidental to my husband's work there and was therefore of minor concern, it proved to be one of the very valuable periods of my school life. I registered for -a course of lectures on Bible literature IN RETROSPECT 265 AMY BROWN LYMAN IN HER WEDDING DRESS with Professor Richard G. Moulton, author of The Modern Reader's Bible; for another on Shakespeare, with Hamlin Garland, novelist and dramatist; and for a third on sociology, a comparatively new subject in colleges at that time, with Dr. George E. Vincent, later president of the Rockefeller Foundation. Personal contact with these noted men was worth as much or even more than anything I learned about the subject matter they discussed. It was at this time that I first became interested in social work and social problems. Doctor Vincent was such a popular teacher, that largely out of curiosity and because so many were rushing into his classes, I decided to take this course with him, but it proved very interesting and practical. And through a former Michigan classmate of my husband, who was then working in the 266 Chicago Charities, I was invited to do volunteer social work in this agency. These experiences together with the contacts I had with Hull House, the famous social settlement established by Jane Addams, were all profitable and started me on my way as a social worker. It was interesting for us who had come from a small, undeveloped campus to note the spacious lawns and parks surrounding the University, and the emphasis placed on outdoor activities. The school was located between two great parks, and the grounds at the north had been developed and made beautiful at the time of the Chicago Fair in 1893; therefore, there was ample space for all of the thousands of students to enjoy with profit a few hours each day in the open. Some played golf, but the majority of the students rode, swam, and played tennis. Great sections of Jackson Park were set aside for tennis courts, and at any hour of the day hundreds of students could be seen participating in this sport. Among the attractions in Jackson Park, near the University, was a two mile ride in an automobile at a cost of 25 cents per person per ride. Each day a long linc of people stood awaiting their turn. It was a real thrill, but rather risky, we thought, to ride in this newly invented horseless carriage for two whole miles at what we then considered a high rate of speed. 'This was the second automobile we had ever seen. The year previous to this, Silver Brothers, of Salt Lake City, had exhibited a car and had ridden through some of Salt Lake's streets, which were packed with people to see this innovation. It was very reluctantly that we left the Chicago school with all its many interests and delights to go on to Cornell University, at Ithaca, New York. Our two and one-half years at Cornell, from which institution my husband received his two advanced degrees, M. C. E. And Ph. D., and was elected to membership in the honorary society of Sigma Xi, were very interesting and profitable. Jacob Gould Schurman, who came to America as a Dutch immigrant boy, working his way over on an ocean liner, was then president of this great University. Because he had sent himself through high school and college he had great sympathy for and interest in all ambitious and struggling young students and constantly encouraged them in their work. He was a great help and inspiration to graduate students also. It was interesting to me to learn that in these great universities graduate students are recognized and honored next to faculty members. President Schurman held periodic receptions at his home for the graduate students, and we became well acquainted with him. Later, upon his visit to Salt Lake City, we were proud and honored to entertain him and his charming daughter at a luncheon in our home. A large autographed photograph of himself, which President Schurman later sent to us, we regard as one of our highly prized possessions. Among the interesting students in engineering at Cornell, and occupying a desk near that of my husband, was Miss Nora Stanton Blatch, the granddaughter of that great American suffrage leader, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who was a close associate of Susan B. Anthony. And a IN RETROSPECT 267 AND RICHARD LYMAN FOLLOWED SWIMMERS worthy granddaughter she was able, independent, and a_ staunch believer in the education and advancement of women. She was a most engaging person and told us many interesting incidents in the life of her grandmother and of her mother who was also a well-known suffrage worker. Miss Blatch, a real athlete, dared one of Cornell's best swimmers to compete with her in swimming the five mile stretch across treacherous and deep Cayuga Lake. He accepted the challenge, and a group of us in a motor-driven launch followed them and drew behind us a small rowboat in which to pick up the swimmers if they were unable to make the full five miles. With real American fighting spirit they both completed the race, a great task for any man and a most remarkable undertaking for a woman. She put into this swimming venture that same undaunted spirit that made it possible for her, alongside of strong men, to complete her course at Cornell and receive the degree of Civil Engineer. Later she opened and successfully conducted an engineering office in New York City. Life at a great American university, with its extensive buildings, equipment, and facilities, and with its thousands of students from many lands and localities, is full of interest and is rich in opportunity. Contact and association with brilliant and well-trained: faculty members and with serious-minded, outstanding students is in itself a liberal education. Then in these great college centers there are available huge libraries, art galleries, and museums. Many and varied kinds of activities are also offered, including lectures by eminent educators, artists, writers, scientists, and statesmen. Debates and open forums also present opportunities for both entertainment and education. On Cornell's campus is one of the most beautiful chapels in America, built and endowed by the Sage Family Foundation. Neither money nor expert workmanship were spared in its design or construction. It is not 268 large, but exquisite throughout, with hand-carved hardwood pews and stained glass windows, each of which is a masterpiece of art. In it are also various memorials in the form of plaques. Non-denominational services are held in this chapel every Sunday. Speakers of national renown who are engaged many months ahead are brought from far and near to conduct the services. DURING our residence in Ithaca there occurred in this college town one of the greatest epidemics of typhoid fever this country has known. Over 1,000 cases were registered in a few weeks, and the deathrate was high. It had all come about because some laborers far up on the watershed had been afflicted with walking typhoid. When the spring floods came, the drinking water became polluted with the typhoid germs and the disease was spread over large areas. Residents of Ithaca were instructed to boil every drop of water they used whether for drinking, cooking, or even for washing dishes. This epidemic resulted in the building of two large filter plants which have since provided the University and the city with pure water. The Smoot investigation was in process in Washington, D. C., while we were still at Cornell University, and the old prejudices against the Mormons were stirred up throughout the country. A so-called reformer, a woman lecturer, age about sixty, visited Ithaca to give a lecture against Utah and the Mormons in one of the prominent churches of the city. I was invited and attended the lecture with some of my Cornell college friends. Among other things, the speaker told of how ignorant, illiterate, and immoral the Mormons were and that, astonishing as it was, there were no public schools in Utah. It was interesting to note in the discussion which followed that a number of the University group defended Mormon students who had attended and who were then attending Cornell University, and told of how temperate and moral they were and what splendid students they made. I also took occasion to state that for a two-year period I myself had served as a teacher in the splendid public schools of Salt Lake City. The commencement procession on Cornell's rolling campus is worthy of mention. It is one of the most impressive sights I have ever beheld. The large groups of faculty members in their varicolored robes and hoods together with the hundreds of graduates in caps and gowns form a long line of march across the campus which is worth going many miles to see. I remember especially some of the colorful robes, among them that of Cornell's first president, Andrew D. White, a brilliant scarlet doctor's robe from Edinburgh University, which contrasted so beautifully with his white hair and beard. President Schurman had followed Dr. Andrew D. White in the presidency of Cornell. President White, later Ambassador to Germany, was famous throughout the educational world. During our residence in Ithaca he visited the University several times and gave a number of lectures to the student body. I remember attending one of his lectures during the summer session. He said, "I understand I have before me teachers not only from all the states in AMY BROWN LYMAN AND ALICE REYNOLDS AT ITHACA, NEW YORK the Union, but from many other heavy smoker of cigarettes in the countries of the world. And I want you to take to your students a message from Andrew D. White. Tell them that in my experience with college students covering a period of fifty years as a professor at the University of Michigan and as president of Cornell University, I have yet to find the first student who was a days of his youth that ever made an outstanding success. One of the most important events which occurred at Ithaca, and one I must mention, was the birth of our nine-pound baby girl Margaret, who is now Mrs. Alexander Schreiner. A