The Significance of Centennial
OUR long-awaited centennial birthday has now passed into history even as the organization day of the Society passed into history. For many, many months the one-hundredth birthday of Relief Society has claimed the attention of Relief Society women. Interest, enthusiasm, and effort gained momentum as the occasion drew near, until the few months immediately preceding March 17, 1942, Relief Society women everywhere were found devoting hour after hour of time, their very best thought, talent, and effort toward the appropriate observance of this eventful day. All of this effort has been proper, because a centennial is indeed an important event. Any institution that endures for one hundred years has something of worth to perpetuate it. An institution that has the power to interest and influence the lives of tens of thousands of women over a period of time that extends from an early pioneering era to one of great social and industrial advancement, merits recognition and honor on its one-hundredth birthday. A centennial sends us back into the past and many things that have been hidden in the records are brought to light. We become better acquainted with the values that have perpetuated the institution and drawn people to it. We become familiar with the vision and the faith which triumphed, often over disheartening conditions and temporary disappointments. We recognize the devotion and the work that have Page 276 built the structure. We learn the difficulties that have been encountered and the struggle that has gone into each achievement, and so we prize more highly that which the institution offers us. We become better acquainted with the personalities that have directed the growth of the organization, and we are not only inspired by their greatness, but we take heart, seeing in them many of the attributes which we ourselves possess. Relief Society has been wonderfully blessed in its leadership both general and local. Few societies can boast so many women possessed of such articulate and outstanding leadership strength. As we view the past we quickly recognize this strength, but in our admiration for what we have had we must not lose sight of that which we now possess. The Society today is led by a president who has served it as a general officer for more than one-third its century. President Amy Brown Lyman is well-acquainted with the history and purposes of Relief Society. Her native endowments, her rich life experiences, and her devotion to the Church and to Relief Society give to us of this day a leader of rare ability. Sister Lyman is supported by a General Board composed of gifted and energetic women who earnestly desire to promote the well-being of Relief Society. Nearly 23,000 faithful Latter-day Saint women, well qualified as executive and special officers, direct the work of the Society in the stakes and missions, wards and EDITORIAL branches of the Church. The ability of Relief Society leaders has been proved time and time again, but perhaps never more convincingly than in the recent membership-building program when approximately 25,000 women were enrolled in one year, and in the quality of the recent centennial programs. Our centennial observance is a history-making event. Just as we today read with interest the accounts of important events of the past, so future generations will view what we have done on this important occasion. And while some of our original plans were not carried to full fruition, due to the war, most of them were realized, and programs 277 that were substituted for those we had to forego touched the lives of individual members even more intimately perhaps than our original plans would have allowed, and the observance, from every point of view, proved impressive and satisfying. Our centennial will go down in history creditably. We who have been privileged to participate in this history-making event have been highly favored. Through it our appreciation for Relief Society has been deepened and our testimonies of the truth of the Gospel strengthened. Love has been engendered in us, so that we feel willing to rededicate ourselves to the service of this great organization.
Lula Greene Richards
THE Relief Society General Board extends greetings to Lula Greene Richards, pioneer editor of the Woman's Exponent, on her ninety-third birthday, which will occur on April 28. Many years have passed since Lula Greene Richards was appointed by President Brigham Young to be editor of the Woman's Exponent. In fulfilling this responsible assignment, Sister Richards was encouraged by such leaders as Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and others whose names are so familiar to Relief Society women. Throughout the years her literary contributions have enriched Relief Society publications and contributed to the reading enjoyment of Relief Society women. Today on her ninety-third birthday she is privileged to enjoy with us, in health, our Relief Society centennial. What a picture she must have of personalities and events in the onward march of our organization! What satisfaction must be hers in reviewing her contribution to the Society! Sister Richards' testimony of the Gospel and her devotion to the Relief Society cause are as strong today as in the days of her youth. The General Board wishes her a happy birthday and a fullness of the Father's blessings every day.
115,000 Members of Relief Society
Completed tabulations of Relief Society annual reports for 1941 revealed a total of 115,008 members 2,000 more than the number shown by the earlier preliminary tabulation when reports from some of the faraway stakes and missions had not been received. This final tabulation necessarily still includes figures for 1940 rather than for 1941 with respect to a few of the faraway Relief Societies whose reports have not been received because of delays and interruptions in shipping due to the war. The tabulations show that the phenomenal increase of 40,000 new members during the four-year membership campaign just closed was shared by Relief Societies in stakes and missions throughout the Church. The achievement in reaching and exceeding the goal of 100,000 members by 1942 was recognized in an editorial in the for March, page 197. The May issue will contain pictographs and other data showing the membership growth for each stake and mission during the four-year period of the membership campaign, and also during the final year 1941 when nearly 25,000 of the total increase of 40,000 members were enrolled.
HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
April with her smiling showers Brings kindly thoughts and pleasant hours.
WITH spring and summer advancing, the stylists are somewhat at a loss to determine what would most please milady during these troublous war days. The desire, naturally, in keeping with the seasons, would be the feminine touch with flowered patterns and trimmings in hats and dress, soft frills and laces, and becoming jewels. However, with everyone socialite, career woman, and even schoolgirl either called into war service or seeking some kind of war service, the tendency is toward the uniform costume both in fabric and style. With little time for change, it is all rather military and confusing, no matter what the service Red Cross, ferry pilot, munition factory, farm, or what not. After all, what matters so long as women do their part.
JOAN FONTAINE was awarded a gold statuette for the best performance by an actress in 1941 for her work in "Suspicion." "How Green Was My Valley" was proclaimed the outstanding motion picture by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
ELIZABETH BERGNER, famed Austrian film actress, has been selected for lead in the picture "Watch on the Rhine," now in the making. Her first American movie was "Paris Calling."
GLADYS RICH, a Utah composer, has finished a cantata, "Messengers of Mercy," dedicated to the National Woman's Relief Society. It is inspirational and pleasing for presentation in this centennial year.
MYRA TAYLOR, of Utah, has accepted a position with a large Minneapolis flour company as first assistant laboratory chemist. She is the first woman chemist employed by this company.
PRINCESS ABIGAIL KAWANANAKOA, one of the last of Hawaiian royalty, has offered her villa near Honolulu to the United States for a rest and recreation center.
SENORITA NOEMI ARRILAGA, of Puerto Rico, is experimenting in extracting fragrance from tropical flowers for distribution to American perfumers now that the essences from Bulgaria, France, and other European nations are unobtainable.
SARAH ANN BRADSHAW QUINNEY, 91, of Logan, Sarah Chappel Bennett, 97, of Midvale, Eunice Stewart Harris, 81, of Provo, and Louise Ellerbeck Felt, 76, of Salt Lake City, all beloved and honored Utah pioneer mothers, temple and Relief Society workers, died this spring.
ANGELA THIRKELL'S new novel, Northbridge Rectory, with its English setting is an amusing satire, and because of its quaint humor it is a delight to read, as is also Countess Waldeck's book, Grand Hotel, the setting of which is Athene Palace in Paris.
New Books
WESTERN AMERICA, a new book by Howard R. Driggs, is dedicated to the heroic men and women who carried civilization westward across the continent. The book, according to the Foreword, was many years in the making. "Its inception, so far as authorship is concerned, came round the pitch pine firesides of the old West. As an eager boy, the writer heard his parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts, and neighbors relate in homespun style their stirring adventures in crossing the plains and settling the valleys of the mountains.' Added to this firsthand history were other stories of courageous men and women who helped win our War for Freedom and lay the foundations of our Country." Out of it all came a burning interest in the epic of America, an interest that the author has transferred to his book and that is caught by the reader as he follows the outstanding events in the westward march of America as presented by Mr. Driggs in this 299-page story. The book is beautifully illustrated with reproductions of forty watercolor paintings by William H. Jackson, an illustrator who, like the author, knows the West. The New York Times Book Review says of the book, "Here is a Western book for the general reader who wants to feel the lift and enthusiasm of America's sunward migrations.... There never was a book easier to read." Westward America may be purchased for $5.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF JOHN BROWN has been arranged and published by his son, John Zimmerman Brown, A. B., M. D. John Brown, a member of the original company of Utah Pioneers of 1847, and father of President Amy Brown Lyman, has already been introduced to Magazine readers by President Lyman in her interesting story "In Retrospect," now appearing in the Magazine. The Autobiography of John Brown consists, in the main, of events as recorded in his journal, and includes a short narrative of his life, brief sketches of members of his family, letters and articles for the press written by John Brown, reproductions of certificates and commissions, together with portraits of his family and associates. In 1846, John Brown as one of the leaders of the Mississippi Saints, conducted this company across the plains from Monroe County, Mississippi, as far west as Pueblo, Colorado. In 1847, as captain of the Thirteenth Ten, he accompanied the Utah pioneers west in President Brigham Young's company and was one of the advance scouts who on July 19, 1847, viewed the Salt Lake Valley from the top of Big Mountain. His life as a missionary, a bishop and a patriarch of the Church, together with his experiences as a military man, an explorer, a colonizer, a merchant, a mayor, and a legislator, are accurately and vividly portrayed in his autobiography.