What Fiction Shall I Read? Harriet P. Johnson Member of Public Library Staff, Salt Lake City
THE cry of man from earliest times has been, "Tell me a story." There seems to be a continual need for man's spirit to escape by means of his imagination into another world, to view the pageant of life under conditions different from his own. Good fiction may be re-creative. It is a sound impulse for a man or woman to turn to the novel after a hard day of monotonous work. Other forms of reading may require a conscious plan or sustained effort, while a novel, complete in itself, is usually relaxing. While it is true that many people who have failed to find the art of living may read too many light novels, filling their days with an endless consumption of them to the neglect of more important things, the novel as a form of good literature must not be condemned. A great novel has intellectual, ethical, and emotional values which make the reader think, feel, and see; it may inspire him to better living. The problem that confronts the average reader is how to choose a worth-while novel. No one is entirely qualified to choose with certainty the best from among modern novels. The good and the bad in modern fiction must be determined by time. Modern works have to pass before the bar of taste of many generations. The classics, however, have passed the test of time; with them it is the taste of the reader that is on trial. If you consider a classic is not good reading matter, it is you who are wrong and Page 280 not the book. The highest authority has classified it as good; it is for you to discover what it contains that makes it of worth. The best books are those that can be read and reread at intervals throughout the years and which grow with the reader. Good books live. Every year book markets are choked with books too feeble to live for even a short time. Only truth endures in this world, whether it is in life or fiction. Does your book seem sincere and true? If it does, you will in all probability ultimately like the book, irrespective of your immediate reaction to it, and you will no doubt be justified in doing so. Do not judge a book by your first reaction to it. Truth is not always pleasant. The first glimpse of it is often so disconcerting as to be positively unpleasant. When you have cast aside a book because of an unpleasant reaction to it, listen whether you can hear a voice saying, "It is true, though." Yield to that voice and read, for in the end you will probably like the book and benefit from reading it. Similarly, when you are hugging a book of great emotional appeal, keep your ear ready for the secret warning, "Yes, but it isn't true." Bad books, by flattering you, caressing you, and by appealing to the weak and base in you, will falsely persuade you into thinking that they are splendid. A TRUE book may not always be a great book, but a great book WHAT FICTION SHALL I READ? is always true not always true in a literal sense, but true to life in the day with which it deals. A good book must have a proper setting to give it vitality, and the author's technique must be adequate for the purpose of the book. Alice Adams, a character in Booth Tarkington's book of that name, was not honest. But the important feature of this fine novel is not that Alice was a liar, but that Tarkington tells the truth about her, and gives a reasonable solution of the problem presented, showing why Alice cannot be happy until she has the courage to live truthfully. The greatness of Gone With the Wind is not in the character of Scarlett O'Hara, for she was weak and driven into spectacular action by the events of the time; but the greatness of the book lies in Margaret Mitchell's honest portrayal of Scarlett's character. The reader of How Green Was My Valley is disappointed that Huw did not meet his problems more heroically, but the author portrays so honestly and vividly the handicaps of the Welsh valley that we recognize the greatness of the book. It is a poor habit to praise or condemn a novel according to whether we approve or disapprove of the conduct of the leading character, and many of us are guilty of doing this. A good novel need not be written about a good woman, although delightful ones have been written about them. Some novels are meant to be textbooks on life, offered to help us in the long, hard business of living; they deal honestly with facts, never coloring them to prove a point. There is a regrettable tendency to overemphasize the ugly, lurid side of 281 life, that undoubtedly exists; but like soiled linen, it need not be aired in public if we are to maintain the dignity of living. A book is not great because the author dares to portray the baser things of life. The facts of life portrayed properly should call out the best in men. ROMANCE in a book is one thing, and sentimentalism is another. Sentiment may appeal to the very young, but it does not hold the interest of more mature persons; such books as Lavender and Old Lace are left for those who have not lived fully. Such books have the primness of the uninitiated and portray only partial truth. The most insincere type of fiction is the type referred to as "true stories" presented in some popular magazines. The "true story" editors require that the story end happily in spite of all the wicked adventures to which the heroine is subjected. This is not true to truth. "True stories" defeat the elevating purpose of good literature by playing upon the heartstring through a presentation of sex problems, and by hiding behind a moral that is unconvincing and unreal. Your paramount reason in reading may be for enjoyment, but you will not fully achieve that purpose unless you have subsidiary aims. These may be to discover aesthetic, moral, political, religious, or scientific truths; or you may devote yourself to a book to become better informed on some particular topic, an epoch in history; a national, racial or social problem; or some other special phase of life. Fiction primarily shows how people feel, while history presents a series of events in human pro- 282 gress. Yet Galsworthy said: "We may learn more of England's past and present from Dickens, the novelist, than from the historians themselves." There are many prepared guides to good fiction. A popular one used in public libraries is Baker's Guide to Best Fiction. Baker classifies fiction according to subject matter, and the period of time with which the book deals. The following recent books have been popular: Restless Are the Sails by Evelyn Eaton, a novel in which the author uses fascinating historical material of the early French settlers to present an unforgettable character. The Long Winter Ends by Newton Thomas, a novel which tells of an immigrant's courageous search for security in the strange new land of modern America. The Tree of Liberty by Elizabeth Page, a novel which deals with an epoch in early American history. In this novel the author paints many historical characters more vividly than they are presented to us in histories.... Random Harvest by Hilton, a novel which uses the English setting before the present war to present a character confused by wrong social conditions. OF course we do not expect you to read only books that will endure. It does not pay to be so exacting about what we read. Even in the food we eat there must be a certain amount of roughage and bulk, and we eat some things because we like them even though they may not be very nourishing. If we lived on nothing but roughage, we would starve; but it is equally true that if we lived on nothing but concentrated food tablets, we would neither enjoy our meals nor have optimum health so we have "roughage" in books. The important point is to recognize what is nourishing and what is "roughage." Mystery novels and wild West novels would come under the class of "roughage." They are so much in demand that libraries resort to red and yellow dots on the backs of the book covers to assist the reader in classifying them quickly and to expedite their handling. The writing of mystery novels is no longer an art; it is a science. These novels can be read as we play a game. For example, a corpse is found, but the identity of the corpse and the reasons for its existence are hidden in mystery. The author then directs the game of guessing these, eliminating handicaps, one at a time, until the corpse is identified and the killer known; then the game is over. This is a form of reading many indulge in when keyed to too high a tension by serious things. The subject matter of this class of reading should not be taken seriously. Cowboy stories serve many readers as an excellent release for the whoopee which they would otherwise fail to get out of their systems. Regarded humorously, cowboy stories provide good relaxation. The greatest pleasure in reading is found when a conscious effort is made to appreciate, think about, and intelligently criticize and understand what we read. Whatever we get out of books is strictly in proportion to what we put into them. "The true university," says Carlyle, "is a collection of books." Included in this collection should be books of fiction both classic and modern novels.