Vol. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER<August> 1<5>, 1890. 		No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	A Midsummer Day In The Country.—E. T.
Hephzibah. An Answer To The Article Entitled
"Woman’s Calling.”—Mary Anderson. Notes
And News. National Pension Funds For Nurses.
—Englishwoman’s Review. R. S. And P. A.
Reports. Wyoming’s Day.—Woman’s Tribune.
John Howard Pane.—Hearth And Hall. Benefits
Of Primary Associations.—Ida May Smith.
	EDITORIAL. Commencment Of Schools.
Editorial Notes. Dedicatory Exercises. Agri-
cultural College Of Utah.—J. W. Sanborn.
Letter From Lula.—L. L. Greene Richards. In
Memoriam.—Willmirth East. Woman’s Meet-
ings And Conferences. Unjust Decision.—Mary
Ann M. Pratt.
	POETRY. Sundered.—Ida M. Davis. Memory’s
Mirror.—L. M. Hewlings. New Every Morn-
ing.—Susan Coolidge. A Lonely Home.—E. A.
Crane Watson. The Song Of The Sea.—Richard
E. Burton.


SUNDERED.

Swifter than bird upon the wing,
Swifter than time when joy reigns king,
	Softer than southern wind’s caress.
	Softer than mother's tenderness.
Sweeter than roses in red June,
Sweeter than nightingale’s low tune,
	Are, the thoughts that I speed to you today.
	O, messenger, fly, nor my love delay.

Slower than sleep to the haunted brain,
Slower than dawn to night of pain.
	Sterner than grief that never weeps,
	Sterner than fate that never sleeps,
Sadder than sorrow's bitter sigh.
Sadder than exile’s yearning cry,
	Is the message inbourne to me tonight,
	O, heart, can it be that once you were light 
							IDA. M. DAVIS.


MEMORY’S MIRROR.
In the shadow of age, sad, weary and worn,
	On memories fair mirror gazing intent,
Feeling stricken, forsaken, friendless, alone.
	In the garments of mourning tattered and rent.
Soon familiar footsteps are heard drawing nigh,
	Some one mysteriously enters the door,
And quietly seats himself down by her side,
	Commences to talk as in past days of yore.
Of the changes of weather, times and the tide,
	Hopes of his manhood, great bargains he’d made,
Then back to the days of his love and his bride,
	Thence to his boyhood, of the pranks he had played.
Then there floated out voices, prattling and sweet;
	Many glad voices, of children at play,
And the glad welcome sound of pattering feet,
	Were greeted with joy, from a long ago day.
Sweet red rosy lips were held up for a kiss,
	Soft golden curled heads, bright laughing blue eyes,
Cherub faces, dimpled with smiles of pure bliss,
	And the touch of soft hands, with joy she descries.
The play is over, tales told, and songs sung,	
	Eve'ning drifts in from the shores of day,
Quiet broods over busy brains, buzzing tongues,
	While each dear white-robed child is kneeling to pray.
Now the soft sweet good-nights float out on the air.
	And earth seems heaven, transfigured by His grace,
The long years roll back, with their changes and care,
	Time’s weary worn garments, have all been effaced.
The tenderest light sifts and quivers and falls,
	Flits all over thro’ flowers, and vine made screens,
Over garden, and grasses, and tree-tops tall,
	Entrancing her soul in a fairy like scene.
The dear little cottage, the home she loved best,
	Hid among the grasses, vines flowers and trees.
The orchards, and meadows in beauty were drest.
	Sweet summer retreat for the birds and the tees.
Memory's Mirror wrought a wonderful charm!
	Dissolved the dark shadows, so sombre and gray,


Brought soft summer zephyrs, with healing like balm,
      Breath of sweet clover, scent of newly mown hay.
								L. M. HEWL1NGS.


A MIDSUMMER DAY IN THE
COUNTRY.
		"See	the glowing sunlight now
		Tint the mountain's misty brow.”
	Who ever does see the first gleam of sun-
light, is well repaid for the effort, for it re-
quires an effort to shake off our drowsiness
on a summer’s morning. It is not only the
rosy gleam that first “tints the mountain” and
then steals across the valley and bursts upon
us with a glory only surpassed by heavenly
brightness, but it is all nature, from the wee
innocent flower half hidden by the green damp
grass, to the tall towering mountains that form
the background to all the scenes so dear to us
the mountain people.
	All living creatures rejoice in the beauties
of life, and dull must be the brain,and callous
the heart, that does not as the lark
		"Tune its first lays to its Maker’s praise.”
	We must rejoice with nature but there is
work for all, and, by the time a farmer’s wife
has prepared the morning meal she is so tired,
and a sweet piping voice reaches her she al-
most wishes the baby had slept until after
breakfast, but when a vision of white-robed
figures fill the door, with eyes beaming with
pleasure at the thought that they have brought
the baby, all thoughts of murmuring vanish,
and as warm loving arms encircle, and baby
kisses are showered unsparingly, there comes
to the tired mother the greatest happiness
that life has to give.
	As the mid-day sun glances down upon us our
weariness increases, and we do not see so much
beauty in nature, as in the mid-day of life we
feel the heat and the burden, but when the
long lingering afternoon passes over and we
have had time for a little rest, we begin again
again to enjoy living, but not with the same
buoyant happiness of the morning, for many
disappointments have darkened the bright
dawning, a long-expected letter; a long-wished
for friend has not arrived, with many other
petty, but annoying vexations, but with a
calm, almost holy feeling, akin to awe, we
realize that with all our hopes, joys, fears and
disappointments we have  drifted one day
nearer eternity.
		"Sweet is summer's evening hour,
		Soothing in its magic power,
		Gentle whispers seem to say
		Life is but a summer day;
		And its close if spent aright
		Tranquil as a summer night.
								E. T.
July' 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		HEPHZIBAH.
		XXVII.
Sad was the parting, weary was the way,
	The Prilgrims trod, while journeying along;
Many the trials’ encountered day by day,
	And yet at eve the merry dance and song,—
The drooping spirits cheer'd and hope grew bright;
	And when they knelt upon the ground to pray, -
They seem’d to see a resting place in sight,
	And holy angels, guarding all their way.

[Column 2]
	Hepsie felt that parting thus from her
mother, after all she had suffered alone, was
indeed a test of her faith, and sincerity; and
she prayed fervently for strength,and firmness,
to take this final step, that seemed to her a
cross,—a sacrifice, greater than any she had
voluntarily made; and she was doing this her-
self; it appeared much harder since her mother
had spoken her feelings on the subject, in fact
prophesied of the future; and it did look cruel,
yet an irresistible impulse led her on. When
alone she questioned her own heart as to the
motives which induced her to take, what looked
to others to be, “a leap in the dark.”
	Was it because Harold’s unfaithfulness had
killed out all affection, and made her cold and
and distrustful, and desirous of burying her-
self among those, who were not akin to her,
and could have no claim upon her love, or
gratitude? sometimes she felt afraid it was so;
—that she was selfish; and then there would
come over her, a wave of singular emotions, so
exalting in their nature, that she seemed
wafted into a celestial atmosphere, where all
human love was swallowed up in the great
river of life, that flowed ever onward connect-
ing the seen with the unseen, the real with the
ideal, the earthly with the eternal. At such
times her thoughts would take the most lofty
flights, that made the present appear like a
shadowy myth,compared to the glory to be at-
tained by sacrifice, and compliance with the
will of God, which under certain influences
seemed so plain to her understanding. This
knowledge was so sacred in its character, and
its effect upon her was such that she did not
dare to explain it to any one if she had been
inclined, not even her mother.
	To Hepsie it was above and beyond all the
education the world could give; and to which
in the past she had aspired with so much en-
thusiasm. No sacrifice looked too great if she
could only endure it in view of the promises held
out to her in connection with the principles
she had been taught. Hepsie realized in a
very small degree what sacrifice and endurance
meant, but she was naturally hopeful and
having had some sharp trials that cut very
keen and close into her heartstrings, she
naturally enough thought these lessons had
paved the way for higher ones. And so indeed
it proved.
	There were some discouragements thrown
in her pathway, and there were those beside
her mother, who tried to hinder her from leav-
ing Nauvoo with the first company. There
were offers of this kind and that, and objec-
tions raised of various kinds, but these had no
weight whatever,she had set her face Westward
and was not to be thwarted in her purpose for
trifles. One young friend and companion used
every effort in her power to hinder her from
undertaking the journey and when she saw
how immovable Hepsie was, she accused her
of never having truly loved Harold, and went
so far as to say, “you dare not face his father
and mother, you are going away without see-
ing them; they have been told that you are go-
ing, and they mean to put a stumbling block
in your way, for you are still his wife what-
ever you may think, and they are determined
you shall not go; they know very well if you
do Harold will never come back. What have
you to say to them, will you be answerable for
his utter ruin?
	Hepsie quickly replied, “my religion has
aught me to love my enemies and although I


[Column 1]﻿
am far from perfect in that lesson which the
Savior taught, yet I am not afraid to meet
Harold's parents; I know I have not wronged
Harold or them my conscience is clear and you
can tell them so.”
	“Well Hepsie, they’ve sent for you to come
out to Laharpe and see them,there’s a carriage
waiting at Uncle Jo’s for you now will you go?
Have you no fears that you may be persuaded
to remain? they will offer you great induce-
ments to stay with them, you know they have
lots of money.”
	“Katie their money weighs nothing with me,
they would not give one cent to Harold and I
when they knew how destitute we were before
baby was born, but I can forgive them even
that, and I will go, if you will go with me,
and they shall see I am not a moral coward,
and could face the whole world were it neces-
sary to prove my sincerity in my religion.”
“Will you go with me you know them all and
I should even be glad to see Oney once more
and leave a message with him for Harold
should he ever return, tho’ my heart tells me
he never will!” “Yes, Hepsie I’ll go and tell
the folks at Uncle Joe’s that we’ll go,and mind
you must be ready early tomorrow morning its
a long drive.”
	Hepsie had many reflections that night and
such strange dreams, she had not told any one
where she was going except her mother, and
she had objected saying, “Hepsie my dear, you
over-estimate your strength, you will break
down, and your nerves are already shattered,
O, that dreadful woman, why did I ever
trust you with her. “Mother I am going,”
said Hepsie to show Mrs. Harvey, that I am
converted to a faith that more than compen-
sates me for Harold’s absence, and perhaps
my dear mother, his lack of manhood, has
been my salvation; for I could never have
been modified, subdued, changed as I am nor
have seen the frivolity of worldly things as
I do now, if I had not passed through “a fiery
furnace,” if I had not been left utterly alone
and friendless, as well as destitute, and only
One above to look to, and lean upon. I will
tell this to the Harvey’s and who knows but
it may be a testimony to warn them and save
them from Apostacy.”
	Her mother replied, “Hepsie I shall not
object to the free exercise of your will in the
matter, nor in regard to your going away; I
comprehend now that you have received light
and knowledge beyond most young people of
your age, and I am prepared to consent to
your going away with the main body of the
Church. I shall make no remonstrance
hereafter.” This concession on the part of
Mrs. Hathaway was very consoling to Hepsie.
	On the following morning Hephzibah and
her friend Kate P. left the city for Laharpe; it
was late in the day when they arrived at the
Harvey residence, for sure enough it had been
as Kate said beforehand a long drive; they
were cold and tired, and the reception they
received was also a very cool one.
	Mrs. Harvey detected almost immeadiately
that Hepsie had not come to stay, and she
resented her bringing Kate with her; but
Hepsie was prepared fot the encounter, such
as it was. “O, I can see plainly, that you’re
not a bit humbled by your trouble; your just
as proud as ever, pride and poverty don’t go
well together though.”
	These and similar sayings were the greet-
ings she recieved and the only comfort the
visit afforded her was a word or two with
Harold’s brother. He assured her of his
brotherly affection and also that he still
believed Mormonism was true and hoped
some day his mother would be convinced of
her error in persuading his father to leave
Nauvoo. He told Hepsie he felt sure Harold
was dead from things he had dreamed con-
cerning him; and Hepsie knowing his delicate

[Column 2]
spiritual temperament felt he must be right. It
would be too much to detail items of this
visit, but Hepsie and Kate went back to
Nauvoo fully convinced of the apostacy of Mrs.
Harvey, and she was the ruling spirit in the
household. When they parted, Mrs. Harvey
said to Hepsie, “I suppose if you’re not married
to one of the heads of the Church you’re go-
ing to be, and you’ll never see Harold again,
or have a dollar of our money.” But her
words had no effect upon the young woman ex-
cept to disgust her with her oft-repeated allu-
sions to money. On the way home Hepsie
said to Kate “dont tell mother how we were
treated, it will make her so indignant and un
happy, besides mother and the children will
be left here when we go away, and we don’t
know what may transpire, you know the
Harvey’s spoke highly and kindly of mother
and they might do her a favor; she may need it
for if as they say, the remainder of the Saints
are likely enough to be driven after we are
gone,who can tell what she may need, and it is
better for her not to know, any way it could’nt
do any good and it might do harm.” Kate
however didn’t see fit to promise, and as soon as
she had an opportunity told Mrs. Hathaway
everything except that Mrs. Harvey accused
Hepsie of being married to one of the heads of
the Church. She knew that would be going a
little too far, if she meant to retain Hepsie’s
friendship, and she was anxious to have her
favor, for she knew that Hepsie’s influence
would be a blessing; she herself had questioned
her about the gossip refered to, on the journey
home and became convinced that whatever
step Hepsie intended to take, she was terribly
in earnest; and if she ever married again the
marriage would be solomnized upon a higher
platform, than either Mrs. Harvey the elder,or
Mrs. Hathaway could appreciate at present.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	AN ANSWER TO THE ARTICLE
ENTITLED “WOMAN’S CALLING.”
	When God had finished the earth in all its
glory with all things useful, beautiful. and
pleasing unto man, and gave man dominion
over the same, yet was man alone, and for
Adam there was not found a helpmate and
God said it is not good that the man should be
alone. So Eve was given unto Adam to be a
helpmate. That was Woman’s first Mission.
And it seems that she was given the first
power to tempt man for good or evil and she
used her influence in persuading him to partake
of that which had been forbidden them, if
Eve had so much influence over her
companion, should we not be careful how we
use our influence over our companions, and
associates by whom we are surrounded daily,
for are we not all daughters of Eve, and just
as apt to close our ears, as it were against the
commands that are sometimes given, but alas!
slippery is the way which we sometimes tread,
and if we do slip we are not alone, but some
associate goes with us.
	Woman’s Mission should be to use that
influence which has been given her for a higher
and better purpose and we are pleased to re-
late circumstances wherein she has used that
influence to some of the highest and noblest
purposes on Earth. It can even be said of
women as of men, “Some are born great, some
achieve greatness, and some have greatness
thrust upon them: ("Shakspere,”) Some have
even laid down their lives for love of their
Country and people. We might trace the
History of the World through and find in all
ages that Woman (though not so popular as
Man,) has bravely fought her fight and now
we live to see the day already dawned, when
she will be raised from her lower platform
and placed on an equal footing with Man to
enjoy “Political equality” which means “Civil

[Column 2]
social and and religious liberty" her abilities
need no longer be crushed for she can even now
lend a helping hand to all mankind.
	But let us reflect back a little upon her
past God knows with what angelic patience
she has borne her rebuke, even when He said
"He would greatly multiply her sorrow and
conception."  But as that sorrow was fore-
ordained we can see how vast, how mighty!
yet how glorious are the works of God in
using His children as instruments in bringing
about redemption.
	Grand design! we are all more or less
acquainted with the short sketches of the
Women of the Bible, with what meekness of
heart they bore their sorrow and lo! what a
day of rejoicing it must have been when the
Savior was promised.  When God should find
a woman holy and pure enough, to be the
means of bringing a Savior into the world to
redeem mankind from the effects of the first
fall. And when He was born she followed
Him through bis wauderings, anointing and
bathing His feet by the wayside, and being
last at the cross, and first at the sepulchre,
and do we not find many women doing the
same to-day, even in the world; and amongst
our own people they are erecting many noble
Institutions for the poor and distressed,clothing
the naked, feeding the hungry, teaching the
unlearned and trying to check the downward
course of intemperance among mankind.
Verily they have their reward, for Jesus said
“he that giveth unto one of these a cup of
water in my name, doeth the same unto me,”
then we have the beautiful example of our
Sainted Mothers, how eagerly they
accepted the same Christ; how willingly
they laid their all upon the altar of sacrifice,
and embraced His Holy Truths struggling on
through all manner of trials, but happy in
the thought of knowing that “Whom God 
loveth He chasteneth.”
	Ah! my sisters, how do we hold these sacred
things, do we remember how dearly they are
paid for, and that our spirits have been re-
served and born heirs to all the  blessings we
now enjoy even the Spirit and light of God,
then how great must be our mission.  Should
we not stretch forth a hand to stay the fallen
one, and to watch ourselves closely, lest we be
drawn into the slippery snare.  Yes for we
have all we can do, though our lives be of the
humblest nature, to guard ourselves day by
day to use our influence for only pure and en-
nobling purposes, that we might be able to
retain our guardain angel,and gain the respect
and love of all good people. for God our Father
in heaven is Love," that our light might not
be put under a bushel but set upon a hill where
all nations can see and partake of the same
light we enjoy,and men shall say, “Come, let
us go up to the Mountain of the Lord for He
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
His paths, and righteousness will cover the
Earth as the waters cover the sea.
					MARY ANDERSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Constance Fenimore Woolson, the
novelist, is the idol of novel publishers. All
the productions of her pen are eagerly bought
by them and easily disposed of. She is now
living in Italy. She is a dainty little woman
and very peculiar in her dress.
	Mrs. Amelia E. Barr, the well known 
novelist, lives a hermit sort of life on the
summit of the Storm King Mountain on the
Hudson. She goes to Europe soon to gather
material for a new novel which will deal with
the subject of Calvinism. Mrs. Barr writes all
her novels with a typewriter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW EVERY MORNING.
Every day is a fresh beginning,
    Every morn is the world made new,
You who are weary of sorrow and sinning,
    Here is a beautiful hope for you;
A hope for me and a hope for you.

All the past things are past and over.
    The tasks are done and the tears are shed.
Yesterday's errors let yesterday cover;
    Yesterday's wounds, which smarted and bled,
Are healed with the healing which night has shed.

Yesterday now is a part of forever,
    Bound up in a sheaf which God holds tight,
With glad days, and sad days, and bad days which never
    Shall visit us more with their bloom and their blight,
Their fulness of sunshine or sorrowful night.

Let them go, since we cannot re-live them,
    Cannot undo and cannot atone;
God in his mercy receive, forgive them;
    Only the new days are our own.
To-day is ours and to-day alone. 

Here are the skies all burnished brightly,
    Here is the spent earth all re-born,
Here are the tired limbs springing lightly
    To face the sun and to share with the morn
In the chrism of dew and the cool of dawn.

Every day is a fresh beginning;
    Listen, my soul, to the glad refrain,
In spite of sorrow and older sinning,
    And puzzles forcasted and possible pain,
Take heart with the day, and begin again.
Ex.                                 SUSAN COOLIDGE.


A LONELY HOME.
[On the death of Clare Watson accidentally killed Sept.
12, 1889.]
Our home is so strangely lonely,
    A void seems to be every where,
The rooms are so large and so empty,
    For the Angel of Death has been there.
When we kneel at the sacred altar
    To offer morning, or evening prayer
We all feel the break in the circle 
    The absent one, is our boy, Clare!

Then after our morning devotion
    As we all to the table repair,
We still note the place that is vacant
    We think for a moment, where’s Clare!
And there is his bed as he used it
    For there’s none that his place can fill;
And we must submit unto Heaven
    Acknowledge a kind Father’s will.

Turn where we will,or do what we may,
    There is some proof of what he has done;
A prompting of something he'd said,
    Some reminder of that noble one.
Yet who notes the fall of the sparrow,
    And who numbers each separate hair
Knows best why He took our dear one
    Our darling, our boy, our Clare.

The family circle is broken,
    But another above is begun
By our dear Clare and Talula    
    And our turn to join them will come;
Oh, God grant that we each may be doing
    All the good that we can, and prepare,
To join that bright circle in heaven.
    Arid dwell with sweet Lula, and Clare.
				E. A. Crane Watson.
Parowan June 8, ’90.


THE SONG OF THE SEA.
The song of the sea was an ancient song
    In the days when the earth was young;
The waves were gossipping loud and long
    Ere mortals had found a tongue.
The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung,
    Or soothed to a siren strain,


As they tossed the primitive isles among
    Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea took a human tone
    In the days of the coming of man;
A mournfuler meaning swelled her moan,
    And fiercer her riots ran;
Because that her stately voice began
    To speak of our human woes;
With music mighty to grasp and span
    Life's tale and its passion-throes.
Such was the song as it grew to be,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea was a hungry sound
    As the human years unrolled,
For the notes were hoarse with the doomed and drowned
    Or choked with a shipwreck's gold:
Till it seemed no dirge above the mold,
    So sorry a story said,
As the midnight cry of the waters old
    Calling above their dead.
Such is the song and its threnody,
Such is the song of the sea.

The song of the sea is a wondrous lay,
    For it mirrors human life;
It is grave and great as the judgment day.
    It is torn with the thought of strife;
Yet under the stars it is smooth and rife,
    With love-lights everywhere,
When the sky has taken the deep to wife
    And their wedding day is fair—
Such is the ocean's mystery.
Such is the song of the sea.
—Richard E. Burton, in the Mail and Express.


[Column 1]
	﻿NATIONAL PENSION FUND FOR
			NURSES.
	An interesting ceremony took place at
Marlborough House on July 4th, when the
Princess of Wales presented certificates of
membership of the National Pension Fund for
Nurses to representatives of the first 1,000
who joined the fund. The number of nurses
present was about 700, and they were ranged
in companies under the trees in the gardens
behind Marlborough House. The variety of
the uniforms worn made the scene a very
picturesque one, the green of the grass and
trees relieving the sombre colours of the
dresses, which were mostly of some shade of
gray.  All the principal hospitals of London,
and very many in other parts of the United
Kingdom, were represented, while here and
there were to be seen the special uniforms
worn on foreign service.
	The allegorical design on the certificates was
from an etching by Miss Lillian Smythe.
Three gracefully-draped figures representing
Labor, Skill and Thrift are shown receiving
the gifts which Rank and Wealth prompted
by Sympathy, hold out to them, while Benevo-
lence, in the background, beckons others to
follow their example. Each certificate had
been signed by the Princess of Wales, and
stated that it was presented in testimony of
the fact that the recipient was one of the first
1,000 nurses who joined the fund, and thus
became one of the founders who secured £25,-
000 as the nucleus of a permanent trust for
the benefit of the nurses of the British Em-
pire.
	As each nurse passed the steps she received
her certificate from the hands of the Princess.
A very large number had brought purses,which
were laid on a table by the side of her Royal
Highness, and the contents of which will form
a fund for the benefit of poorer nurses. This
fund has been specially instituted as a
memorial of the late Mr. J. S. Morgan, one of
thb founders of the pension movement. When
all the certificates had been given the nurses
and the rest of those present formed a circle
round the Royal party.

[Column 2]
	The PRINCE OF WALES then read the fol-
lowing speech:
	NURSES,-It has afforded the Princess and my.
self much pleasure to receive you here to day-
I understand that you come from nearly 150
hospitals, infirmaries, asylums, nursing and
other institutions in the United Kingdom, and
that many of you are working on your own ac-
count as private nurses. One here present has
come all the way from Gibraltar, and letters
and purses have been received from members
of the first 1,000 who are working as nurses in
Australia, Canada, Constantinople, Malta,
Egypt, the United States, France and Italy.
One nurse at the Citadel Hospital in Cairo
has sent an Egyptian purse containing £10,
and another has forwarded a purse from Natal.
All this shows that the pension fund for nurses
is rightly named national. What then is the
National Pension Fund for Nurses, and who
are the first 1,000 nurses? Three years ago
four of the leading merchants of the City of
London deposited £20,000 with the Court of
Chancery to enable the National Pension Fund
to be incorporated under the Insurance Com-
panies Act, with the necessary financial guar-
antees. These gentlemen set the whole nursing
body a lesson in thrift, by attaching to the de-
posit a condition that, unless 1,000 nurses in-
vested their savings in the pension fund be-
fore 1st of January, 1890, the £20,000 was to
be returned and the fund wound up. In less
than twelve months from the date that the
council began to issue policies—August, 1888
—1,000 were applied for, and the condition
was thus fulfilled. The four benefactors there
and then made a gift of £20,000 to the fund,
specially allocating £5,000 of it to be invested
at compound interest for the sole benefit of
the first 1,000 nurses who had by their thrift
and foresight secured so splendid a sum for the
benefit of the whole nursing body for ever.
The National Pension Fund has greatly pros-
pered since. Nurses continue to join it at an
average of ten a week. Other friends have
sent gifts to the Pension Bonus Fund, which
amounts to nearly £40,000, and the invested
funds to £67,000, the difference representing
the investment by nurses of their savings.
But the National Pension Fund has done more
than this. Heretofore, if a nurse fell ill or be-
came disabled through no fault of her own, her
position was often a very painful one, and
many nurses under such circumstances
formerly had no refuge but the workhouse.
The philanthropists who have founded the
pension fund have done much to prevent any
similar catastrophe befalling any nurse in the
future. All who join it will at once insure
safety for themselves and respect for the noble
calling to which they belong. Already several
have been saved from distress through its
agency.
	The Prince then referred to the great in-
terest taken in the fund by the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, and expressed his satisfaction that
several of the large hospitals—notably the
great London Hospital, Guy’s, St. Mary’s, and
King’s College Hospitals—as well as others
both in London and the country, have
become affiliated to the fund, and many pay
one-half of the necessary premiums to secure a
pension to the nurses in their employ.
	Mr. Walter A. Burns, chairman of the
council, and son-in-law to the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, then thanked his Royal Highness for
the tribute he had paid to the memory of that
gentleman.		Englishwoman's Review.


John O’Reilly, poet, and editor of the
Boston Pilot is dead.
	Another triumph for [the cause of woman's
freedom. The United States Senate Committee
on Woman Suffrage has made a favorable
report. All Republican Senators agreeing.


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday-
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City. Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	 -	 September 1, 1890.


COMMENCEMENT OF SCHOOLS.
	Utah is not behind in the matter of good insti-
tutions of learning. As the time comes round
for the opening of schools, Academies, Colleges
and Universities, one is apt to think more upon
this important subject, the education of the child-
ren.
	We have received, and we acknowledge the
same with thanks, the Annual of the University
of Deseret, for 1890—91: We are sorry that our
limited space prohibits us just now from making
an extended notice of this Territorial institution.
We notice among the Faculty and Board of In-
structors some names we are not familiar with
but presume they will have the interest of the ad-
vancement of the higher education of the youth
of Utah at heart. Young men have gone out
from this University in the past well qualified for
any practical work they might wish to undertake
in the great world of science and skill. With
the superior advantages and facilities the Univer-
sity is now in possession of, there ought to be
great progress corresponding with the rapid
strides now being made in this enlightened nine-
teenth century. The University of Deseret will
open on Monday September 1,1890, Dr. J. R.
Park, Principal.
	The Latter Day Saints College, the Central
Normal College in this city, in which we as a
people are deeply and directly interested will
open its fifth academic year on the first of Septem-
ber 1890. The Board of Education and the
Faculty of the college are the same that have
been published in our columns before, and are
able exponents of the subjects they teach. This
school should surpass any other because of the
advantages it affords for religious cultivation
training and discipline, which is the highest
spiritual and moral excellence when combined
with progressive intelligence and wisdom.
Similar schools or colleges and academies have
been established in almost every Stake and the
Latter-day Saints are supporting them with means
and their patronage; while at the same time pay-
ing regularly towards the maintenance of the
district schools throughout the Territory which
we understand open on the same date. The
Mormon people believe practically in giving their
children superior educational advantages, misrep-
resentation to the contrary notwithstanding.
Those who come here with their eyes open and
not blinded by prejudice know that this is the
case.
	Judge- Carlton’s article will open the under-
standing of fair minded people on some of the
vexed questions about Mormonism. The gentle-
man was a member of the Utah Commission and
lived here for some years, and he knows whereof
he speaks.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Quarterly Conference of
Weber Stake will be held in Ogden City on
Thuursday the 11 of September. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the county and all those interested in these be-
nevolent organizations are cordially invited to be
present and participate in the preceedings.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held in Mayfield,Friday
and Saturday Sept. 19 and 20, 1890. Meeting
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the country. The Presidency of the Stake,
Bishops and brethren are cordially invited to at-
tend.
	We acknowledge wtih many thanks the receipt
of a very polite invitation to attend the dedicatory
services of the Agricultural College just about to
be established and dedicated in Logan. The pro-
gramme of exercises is very impressive and it is
greatly to be hoped that the training of the child-
ren in future years will be as satisfactory as our
most sanguine hopes and desires could antici-
pate.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake will convene in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Thursday Sept. 11. The
Presidency of the Stake Bishops and others are
respectfully invited to attend. Meetings will
commence at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. conference will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Friday Sept. 12, and the Primary
Associations Saturday Sept. 13. A full attend-
ance from all parts of the country is most de-
sirable.
	The Secretary of the Relief Society of each
Stake of Zion is hereby respectfully and earnestly
solicited, to prepare and forward a semi-annual
report at as early a date as possible, in order that
a full and complete annual report may be in readi-
ness to hand over at least ten days before Con-
ference. In order to do this Stake reports should
be in as early as the middle of September. Ad-
dress them to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Second
North and First West Sts., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	There will be a convention of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association held in this City, early in
October, and it is expected that each Association
will send a report previous to that time, to the
General President, or Secretary so that there will
be a perfect understanding of what has been done
in the interest of suffrage in this Territory. It is
hoped there will be no delay in forwarding these
reports direct to Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President
W. S. A. of Utah, No. 74 Cor. First South and
First West Sts. or to Miss Rachel Edwards,
Secretary No. 29 N. West Temple Street.


DEDICATORY EXERCISES
					OF THE
		AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH.

	The Agricultural College of Utah will be open
for the reception of Students on Tuesday, Sept.
2d. On Sept. 4th, at 10 a. m., it will be dedicated
to the Higher Education. Industrial Education
will be a prominent feature of its work. The
College has organized five courses of instruction
namely: Science, Agriculture, Domestic Arts,
Mechanical Engineering and Civil Engineering.
	The speakers announced below will represent
the several courses of Study pursued in the Col-
lege.
	Piano Solo, Mrs. R. W. Sloan; Invocation,
Apostle Moses Thatcher; Song, Mr. W. S.
Lamoreaux; Address, Hon. Arthur L. Thomas,
Governor of Utah; “Education in its Relation to


Agriculture," Bishop William B. Preston; Song,
Mrs. R. W. Sloan; Address, "The Higher Edu-
cation of Women," Mrs. S. W. Eddy; "Educa-
tion its Relation to the Mechanical Industries,”
George G. Bywater; Song, Mr. R. C. Easton;
Brief Addresses by the trustees of the College
and by Citizens; Duet, Mr. R. C. Easton and Mr.
W. S. Lamoreaux; Benediction, Rev. E. W.
Greene.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH.

	The Agricultural College of Utah, located at
Logan, Utah, will open for students on Septem-
ber 2nd.
	It is a Territorial Institution founded upon a
United States land grant and by Territoral appro-
priations, for the purpose of giving the young
men and women of Utah a liberal and practical
education in the several pursuits and profession
of life. It has courses, in Agriculture, Domestic
Economy, Mechanic Arts and Mechanical engi-
neering, Civil Engineering and other special
courses.
	It has modern equipments and specialists in its
several fields of instruction.
	Its means of instruction include United States 
Experiment Station and its work of research in
Agriculture; a fine farm including horticultural,
grounds equipped with modern appliances. A
cooking, dairy, cutting and sewing department,
workshops in wood and iron, a new library;
museums and other means of illustration.
	Students will be kept in constant contact with 
illustrations of school room teachings throughout
its four years courses.
	For pamphlet containing announcements and
for further particulars,	
			Address,		
						J. W. SANBORN,
								President.

			LETTER FROM LULA.

				Smithfield, Cache Co.,
							Aug. 25th, 1890.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Since the first week in June last, when I came 
to, and in this place for the summer, many things
have occurred here which would be of interest to
you. Had I been at liberty to write, whenever
“the spirit moved” me to do so, you would have
heard from me several times ere this. But it was
generally Monday, (such a busy day,) or Saturday
(the next, perhaps, in importance,) when I would
be impressed to take up my pen—just the time
when I could not.	
	Ah! which day, of all the seven, is not a busy
one for the mother of a young family whose heart
is in the work of rearing them to God’s service?
Even the blessed Sabbath, with all the hallowed,
peaceful, restful influences which belong to it and
make it ever welcome, ever holy, is so taken up
with interesting and instructing the pure young
minds entrusted to the mother's care, and for
whose early impressions she is to be held ac-
countable, that she finds little, or no time for read-
ing, writing or even thinking of anything which
cannot be done with them and for them.
	By the time all are ready for Sabbath School,
it is time to start; and the two meetings which
follow, during afternoon and evening, fill up the
day, outside of the time which must be spent in
caring for the family’s earthly needs.
	Last Sabbath,(yesterday) was one of the best I
ever spent. The Stake Superintendent of S. S.
was here—(excuse me a moment! one boy wants
his whip fastened to the stock, another wants his
hair trimmed in haste, and my girl wants my help
just now “what is to be done next" for the finish-
ing of her new gingham. I’ll come back after
while.)


All the religious services here yesterday,
tended towards that all absorbing, most important
subject, the reformation and proper education of
our children.
	I have already mentioned that our Stake Sun-
day School, Supt., Dr. O. C. Ormsby, paid our
ward a visit yesterday. Since my sojourn here,
we have also been favored with visits from the
Stake Presidency of the Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary Associations; showing that in this Stake,
the people, some of them at least, are alive and
able to work. Both associations above mentioned
and also the Relief Society in this settlement, are
doing excellently; although their meetings are
not largely attended, yet those members who do
attend, manifest their willingness to assist in,
and their devotion to the cause of truth.
	Before long, I hope to be able to write again,
and to say something of the Woman Suffrage
work in this portion of the great world which is
to be regenerated.
			With kindest love, 
					L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Blair who departed this life
July 8th 1890, was the daughter of E.W. and
Willmirth East and was born Dec. 31st, 1840 in
Washington Co. Texas. She was baptized by
Seth M. Blair, August 1854 in Milam Co. Texas,
and came to Utah with her parents in 1855, was
married to Seth M. Blair in Sept. 1856. She was
the mother of five children two sons and three
daughters two of whom survive her. She was a
woman of moral character and sterling worth.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint in
the hope of a glorious resurrection.

		Angel Sarah do not leave us;
			Though your body’s from us borne,
		Yet in spirit be thou with us
			Whispering loved ones do not mourn.

		Dearest mother do come near us.
			Bless us with that heavenly love,
		Tell us of the joys you've tasted
			In your blissful home above.
						Her	Mother,
								WILLMIRTH EAST.


WOMEN’S MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES.
	Meeting was held at Cedar City at 10 a. m.,
Friday morning August 9, Mrs. Ann Elizabeth
Webster presiding. Opened by singing “Lord
we come before thee now,” an excellent prayer
was offered by Elder Christopher Arthur, singing
again “Praise ye the Lord.” The President
Sister Webster made a few opening remarks, al-
luded to the great work for the dead as well as
for the living, and how much she enjoyed the
spirit of the Gospel and her labors in the Relief
Society.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt prayed that the Lord
would give those assembled hearing ears and un-
derstanding hearts that they might profit by what
they heard from time to time and on this occasion;
rejoiced to have the sisters from the Central
Board of the Relief Society from Salt Lake City
in their midst.
	Sister Sage Jones made a very pretty illustra-
tion in her speaking, said the great proportion of
the surface of the earth is rough, and requires
an effort to subdue and temper it for the habita-
tions and benefit of mankind, and it is so with
our lives there are many trials and rough places
to pass through which give us great experiences
and are beneficial to us.
	Bishop William Corry made brief remarks;
thought the sisters were more alive to their duties
than the brethren were.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, said she had been in

[Column 2]
Cedar City in a very early day 37 years ago, and
remembered her experience at that time. Spoke of
the changes that had taken place since in various
ways, and of the wonderful changes that were
transpiring with the people at the present time;
gave a brief account of her being healed when she
came into the Church, her baptism being the first
in Laporte Indiana. Spoke of obedience, charity
and love for our neighbors; the tendency among
us to become careless because we are pushed
and hurried, it is the spirit of the age, everything
is done in the quickest manner possible, teleg-
raphy and the telephone have made a great
difference in our lives, we can send messages like
lightning long distances, and hear the voices of
our friends a hundred miles away, science is doing
marvelous things and we must move onward with
the improvements that are everywhere being
made. Sister Richards urged the sisters to make
the home a heaven.
	Singing “Sweet is the work my God my King,”
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the as-
sembly for a short time upon the current topics of
the times, and especially the political situation of
affairs here in Utah and in the country generally;
gave a sketch of some things that had come
under her observation at Washington and in the
Supreme Court of the United States in 1886—
when the case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow was be-
fore that august body.
	Sister Webster made a few closing remarks,
spoke of the great faith and spiritual power that
was given to those who were humble; singing
“Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.” The bene-
diction was pronounced by Elder U. Jones.

	Conference of Relief Society Parowan Stake,
at Parowan Sunday a. m. August 10. Sister
Ellen W. Lunt presiding, opened by singing
“Awake ye saints of Latter-days,” prayer by
Bishop John Adams, sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Pres. Lunt made a few opening remarks, thank-
ing the Lord for all his blessings, and announced
the sisters from Salt Lake City; said she had
visited all the wards in that Stake, had represent-
atives from all the wards except Kanarra; Paro-
wan, Cedar City Paragoonah and Summit Wards
were reported, Parowan, Sister Benson very good
report spoke well of the sisters and referred to
the saving of grain.—Cedar City Pres. A. E.
Webster spoke of the disposition among the peo-
ple of the world to seek after riches and not give
heed to the still small voice, exhorted the young
mothers to question children daily in regard to
their habits and what they had been doing, teach
them strict honesty, truthfulness and virtue.
	Sister Eliza Barton, Pres. of R. S. Paragoonah
reported the Society there in good condition and
bore her testimony in a humble manner to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Lettie Dalley Pres. Summit R. S. gave a
good report of that place and said she was very
glad to see the sisters from Salt Lake come to
visit them, added her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, felt she would always
rather hear the brethren speak; felt a weakness
in speaking to the public; alluded to the prayer
made at the opening of the meeting. She always
liked to hear the minutes read at the Conferences
of the sisters, it was customary and had always
been done in Weber Stake where Pres. Young had
organized the Relief Society in July the year he
died; she had spoken to Pres. Woodruff since
and he approved of it.
	Thought it was a good thing for us to criticise
ourselves, it helped us to be more careful and
diligent. Confession was always good and hu-
mility in all things,she loved to hear the testimony
of the little children; she spoke eloquently upon
the healing of the sick by prayer and administra-
tion, also obedience to parents and respect to
the aged; referred to her great love for her own

[Column 3]
parents and made some happy illustrations;
talked well of the Primary Associations and
urged the parents to send the children there to be
taught of the things of the kingdom. Touched
upon other subjects calculated to do good and
to make a deep impression upon the minds of the
people assembled there.
	Sister Holyoak and Sister Mandina Dalley each
occupied a short time expressing many good
wishes and desires; they were followed by Sister
E. B. Wells who dwelt upon the great benefits
and advantages of the organizations of women
and children in the Relief Society, Young Ladies’
and Primary Associations; spoke of the Prophet
Joseph and his great love for little children, the
faith he had in the prayers of the little ones, and
urged the children to seek for faith and to be
diligent in attending their prayers and regular at 
their meetings, believed that notwithstanding the
difficulties now in our pathway, that the present
time was a good day for Zion.
	Choir sang the anthem "Praise ye the Lord,”
Benediction by Bishop Wm. Corry.
	Afternoon session: Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt pre-
siding, singing “Awake ye slumbering ministrels,”
prayer by Elder David Mathewson, singing “I
saw an angel from on high.” The sacrament
was administered, and afterwards Sister Mary
Ann Lunt spoke upon the Relief Society work
and the education of mothers, referred to the silk
culture and the lectures upon health in their meet-
ings. Sister Sage Jones alluded to the prophets
who had spoken so beautifully in regard to Zion
in the last days; did not think it was pleasing to
our Heavenly Father that there were so many poor
among us as a people, hoped to see the day when
there would be no poor in Zion; felt the Relief
Society had done much good to those in need,the
sick and the sorrowing; her remarks were tender
and full of love.
	Sister Jane Birkbeck, rejoiced in the Gospel,
she had left all that was near and dear to her to
gather with the saints, and was glad she had re-
ceived the truth and never regretted leaving her
home or her dear native land; felt however in
rising to speak that she would rather cook a din-
ner for all those assembled there than stand up to
speak to them; but wished to be obedient when
called upon.
	Sister Benson spoke a few words bore her testi-
mony to the truth. Sister E. B. Wells, spoke
upon general matters more especially the educa-
tion and advancement of women, and their politi-
cal status the nesessity of a thorough understand-
ing of the practical duties of life, and the religion
they had embraced, also the constitution and gov-
ernment of the country; as mothers and wives,
women need information on all subjects, and to
impart it to their children.
	Pres. Webster of Parowan Stake spoke of the
good work of the Relief Society and bore testi-
tomy to the diligence and faithfulness of the
sisters in that Stake and the help they were to
the Bishops.
	Sister Jane S. Richards made some remarks
upon the labors of the sisters, felt most of them
worked too hard; said the Relief Society was not
any old lady’s getting up not even Sister Eliza
R. Snow—we had not taken this upon ourselves
it had been established through the priesthood,
by Joseph Smith the Prophet—she thought the
sisters had done enough in making quilts and
carpets and she hoped they would meet often and
get spiritual strength and only do such work as
was really necessary. Sister Eliza had said the
coals would not die out if we put the fire together
often; she was a wonderful woman and did a
great work, Mother in Israel would not half ex-
press it. “Sisters comfort each other, remember
our children and the children of our neighbors
let us lend a helping hand wherever we can
think how we can help to save one who is weak
or erring, the Scriptures speak of the lost sheep,


there was more rejoicing over his return than
over the ninety and nine who went not astray.”
Sister Richards spoke of the temptations to our
young people especially the boys in the cities of
Salt Lake and Ogden and thought we needed
great strength and constant prayer to keep their
feet from straying.
	Pres. Jones made excellent remarks upon wo-
man suffrage, endorsed what had been said and
spoke of the Church school that was about to be
established in Parowan.
	Pres. Morgan Richards bore testimony also,
and said he enjoyed hearing the mothers and
sisters talk.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt felt thankful for the good
teaching that had been given in this Conference,
exhorted all to give heed to the same and to put
it into practice in their lives. Exhorted the
young to be careful in keeping the commandments
of God, said the glory of a woman is chastity, and
and urged the necessity of perserving a purity of
life and conduct. Was glad the sisters from Salt
Lake City had visited them, had enjoyed the time
very much, loved the sisters and the brethren,
said this is the 42d quarterly conference of the
Relief Society and believed it was the best, the
last is always the best. We want to be on our
guard all the time and prepare for whatever may
come. Heber C. Kimball used to say death was
like going from the kitchen to the parlor and
therefore we must needs make preparation, may
the Lord help us all, and bless us that we may
prove faithful.
	Choir sang the anthem “Nearer home.” Bene-
diction by President Jones.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UNJUST DECISION.
	The decision recently rendered in regard to the
rights of children born in Polygamy to any in-
heritance in the father’s estate was to say the
least very surprising. “Polygamous children can-
not inherit,” so says Judge Henderson and Judge
Zane concurs.
	Now we ask why? Because you are such a
just monogomist and say they cannot, must it be
so? Have you or has any one a right to make
laws to reach back half a century, and power to
make a law where there was none to bear on all
cases not under your jurisdiction? I have been
reading a decision rendered by this high tribunal
on the same case.
	“That the law of 1862 debarred all children, born
after this law was passed, from inheriting their
father’s estate.” How about the children born be-
fore there was any law made against their inher-
iting, or before there was any law against polyg-
amy. The decision of this Judge is wonderful in-
deed, to extend away back to the time when
there was no law at all upon the subject.
	Children born out of wedlock not in,has not the
least shadow of bearing on those who are born in
the order of plural marriage; plurality of wives
was permitted by the government to continue
many years, and you say there was a law that
such children should inherit their father’s estate;
this was a righteous law and as it should be not-
withstanding the decision of these Judges. The
father should support his own offspring and not
leave it to the mother. But these Judges like
men of the world want to throw all the blame,
and the trouble upon the women and children
and let the men go free. Before God men in the
world who commit unrighteous acts will be
punished and have to bear the shame. Man was
created to be woman’s protector and not her be-
trayer and destroyer. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints does not countenance
the stale of things that exists in the world, but
disfellowships adultery,and its members raise tbeir
voices against sin and evil doing, if it were not so

[COLUMN 2]
this Church wou'd not and could not be the true
Church of Christ.
	I am the wife of the late Hon. Orson Pratt. I
was married to him many years ago and have
four living children all born in lawful wedlock and
before the law of 1862 was passed, or so much
harped upon by woman-haters who would rather
see woman polluted and kept out of honorable
marriage than answer the end of her creation, by
being the wife of a just, upright, and virtuou
good man. Unprincipled men would rather have
women out of wedlock, to debase and defame,and
they with high head and unblushing face, stalk
abroad without a blot of law to tarnish their good
name, or character; but unfortunate, down-trod-
den, law-helpless women, are subject to the lords
of creation,who make the laws to suit themselves,
to serve their whims, and caprices and allow wo-
men no voice in making the laws. The women
of this Territory enjoyed the right of franchise, it
was given them by large-hearted Mormon men,
they are the woman’s friend and place her on an
equality with themselves, and she has a right to
vote on all Church questions. But monogomists
took the ballot from women.
	Such a state of things will exist as long as
men and their man-made laws oppose honorable
plural marriages. There is an inherent principle
in man to increase his species, in other words to
obey that first commandment to multiply and re-
plenish the earth; woman to be his helpmeet and
glory in lawful wedlock to increase his dominions 
in the upward road to progression. Few men are
worthy though of these great blessings. The
patriarchal man has broad views, his love for wo-
mankind expands, he accepts marriage upon a
broader platform, the wife is to be his equal, he
grants her every right that he enjoys, she is the
parent of his children, their mother, their youth-
ful instructor, their guide. The parents believe
that God sanctions their union; they kneel at
the family altar and ask God’s blessing daily to
rest upon their household; they pray that all their
acts may be in righteousness in all things; they
have true knowledge and the still small voice
whispers they are right.
	Congress and the lawmakers must go back to the
ancients judges if they set up these standards, for
away in the ages of the past these marriages
were countenanced, and God approved them and
the children received of the father’s inheritance.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 6, 1890.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

			PAROWAN P. A.
	Minutes of Primary Conference held at
Parowan Aug. 9, 1890. Singing from Primary
Hymn books “Gladly meeting,” opening prayer
David Mathewson, singing “I think when I
read that sweet story of old,” minutes of last
conference read and accepted, followed by a
lengthy programme from the children, consist-
ing of songs, dialogues, readings, essays and
recitations, many of the parts deserving of
great praise.
	Sister Ellen Lunt told the people assembled
she was pleased to meet them, she had been
detained therefore did not hear all the parts
rendered, enjoyed the little she had heard,
prayed God’s blessing upon all.
	Sister Holyoak was gratified to have the
visiting sisters, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. J.
S. Richards, with us, asked the parents to en-
courage their boys to come to the meetings, as
they seemed to be more backward than the
girls.
	Sister Morris,Pres. P. A. Parowan Stake re-
marked we had a lengthy meeting, hoped what
had been done would be beneficial, could readily
perceive an improvement in the children;

[Column 2]
﻿thanked each one who had assisted in making
up the programme of exercises.
	Closed by singing “We thank Thee O God
for a prophet.” Benediction by Pearl Wat-
son.
	E. A. CRANE WATSON, Stake Sec. P. A.

			MALAD STAKE.
	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ninth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Malad Stake of Zion met
at Portage according to appointment Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins presiding. On the stand of
the Stake Officers were Pres. Oliver C. Hoskins
and Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs, Patriarch John D.
Gibbs, Bishop E. Harris and several leading
brethren of the Stake.
	After the usual exercises the minutes of the
last Conference were read and approved.
Stake Report read and and accepted, after
which Pres L. Hoskins called for reports from
the different branches. The Portage was re-
ported by Pres Jane A Harris; Muddy Creek
Pres. Rosanah Howell; Cherry Creek, Pres.
Eliza H. Chivers: Washakie, Pres. Elizabeth
J. Zundel; Malad City, Secretary Elizabeth
Jenkins; Samaria,Pres. Mary D. Davis; each
showing that the Society under her care was
in a prosperous condition.
	Coun. Elizabeth Zundel spoke in an interest-
ing and instructive manner concerning our
every day duties; she was followed by Coun.
Mary Stewart who spoke on the subjects of
obedience and prayer; the Choir sang an
anthem. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.

	Afternoon Session; Meeting opened by
singing and prayer, the sacrament was
administered by High Counselors, Wm.
Sinclair Sen., and Miles Hall. The roll was
then called showing a fair attendance of
officers.
	Lucinda Hoskins was then sustained as
Pres. of the Relief Society of the Malad Stake
of Zion, with Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel first
and Sister Mary Stewart second Coun. Eliza
A. Hall Sec.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins spoke of the necessity
of the sisters storing grain, and looking after
the poor and the sick and all those that need a
kind word to always be on hand to give it, and
improve every opportunity of doing good; said
we should always set a good example and
practice the Golden rule gave good advice and
instruction on several different subjects.
	Pres; O. C. Hoskins said that the sisters had 
been blessed with the spirit of the Lord during
the Conference. Spoke of the great work the
Relief Society was performing wherever they
had been organized in all its many hundred
branches, exhorted us to put away vanity aud
pride and live pure and humble before the
the Lord and we would continue to be blessed.
	The Choir sang “Though in the outward
Church.” Benediction by Wm. Sinclair Sen;
				ELIZA A. HALL. Sec.


WYOMING’S DAY.

	Judge Melville C. Brown made an eloquent
address in presenting the constitution of
Wyoming to Mrs. Post, the president of the
Wyoming Woman Suffrage Association. His
closing remarks were as follows:
	“Look again. Far out across the Great
American desert, and beneath the shades of
the grand old Rockies, there springs into ex-
istence a new state, and the watchwords of its
people are, “Justice, Equality” to this new
state. Under the guidance of the Great
Jehovah it is permitted to achieve the highest
excellence in government yet attained by man.
Here, unmoved by selfishness, the dangers of
war or the appeals of non-resident reformers,
but moved alone by the spirit of divine justice,
it was ordained by the people of Wyoming


[Column 1]
﻿that each citizen of the state should enjoy the
same right guaranteed to every other citizen,
whether high or low, black or white, male or
female. 
	And now, Mrs. Post, I have the distinguished
honor to place in your hands, and you, as a
representative woman of Wyoming, the grand
privilege of receiving, this broadest guarantee
of civil liberty ever established by the genius
of man—the Magna Charta of our liberties—
the constitution of the state of Wyoming.
	From this Nebo of history we look forward
with the milk and honey of prosperity and
happiness for woman depends solely upon her-
self.
	With these new privileges come new duties
and responsibilities. “Act well your part,
there all the honor lies.” Your past furnishes
the highest guarantee for the future. If you
live up to the full measure of your high privi-
leges, you will not only bring happiness to the
new state, but joy to the hearts of the noble
women of other states who are struggling for
the repeal of unequal and unjust laws. Not
only this, but your example aud success will
bring emancipation to the women of the
world.”
MRS. AMELIA B. POST RESPONDED:
	Mr. President, and gentlemen of the Wyo-
ming Constitutional Convention: In the name
of the women of Wyoming I thank you for
this copy of our state constitution, and in their
name also do I especially thank you for that
clause in this constitution which guarantees
their enfranchisement. In the history of the
world it has seldom been the good fortune of
a body of lawmakers to be able to inaugurate
at one stroke a movement in the interest of
human rights and human liberties as important,
as far reaching, as grand as this. And in the
name of the women of the civilized world I am
here to congratulate you upon the able, fear-
less and disinterested manner in which you
have discharged your duties as a constitutional
convention.
	This grand result of your labors—woman’s
magna charta—has now been before the civi-
lized world about eight months. It has at-
tracted wide attention and has been subjected
to the keenest possible criticism. By narrow-
minded people, cranks and bigots it has been
universally condemned. By intelligent, broad-
minded people, by the friends of human pro-
gress, by the advocates of universal liberty, it
has been universally commended. As a means
of assisting Wyoming to become one of the
stars in the grand galaxy of liberty it has been
a most helpful document.
	On some of the important questions of policy
that came before your honorable body during
the progress of your deliberations, there were
honest differences of opinion among you, but
when it came to the most important question
of all—the enfranchisement of women, there
were no differences of opinion, there was no
dissenting voice. You have shown the world
that as representative men of Wyoming you
have the courage of your convictions, and that
you are neither afraid nor ashamed to allow
women all the rights and privileges unre-
stricted of American citizens.
	An ancient philosopher of the orient has
said: “The veiled slaves of the harem can
never become the mothers of a great race of
men, but if you would produce a race of great
men you must first have a race of great wo-
men, both as to body and mind.”
	This is the true doctrine.  The history of the
world has demonstrated its truthfulness in
scores of instances. Elevate the standard of
womanhood! For there is no surer way by
which to elevate the standard of manhood.
This is to-day the most important question in-
volved in the future attainment of the highest
plan of human civilization.
[Column 2]
	In framing this constitution, gentlemen of
the convention, you have taken a most im-
portant step, lookiug to the elevation of the
human race. And may each and all of you
live long to enjoy the honorable distinction this
shall surely bring you.
	And now, Mr. President and gentlemen of
the convention, allow me in the name of the
women of Wyoming—in the name of the wo-
men of the civilized world—in the name of
human progress—in the name of Christian
civilization—in name of that grand advanc-
ing column, the cohorts of universal liberty,
again to thank you for this most precious
memorial.
	The great event of the day was the presenta-
tion of the State flag by the ladies of Wyoming
which followed Mrs. Jenkins address. It was
presented by Mrs. Esther Morris the “mother”
of the woman suffrage movement in the state.
Gathering the folds of the flag about her she
said:
	“On behalf of the women of Wyoming, and
in grateful recognition of the high privilege of
citizenship that has been conferred upon us, I
have the honor to present to the state of Wyo-
ming this beautiful flag. May it always re-
main the emblem of our liberties, ‘and the
flag of the union forever.’ ”
	Governor Warren on receiving the flag from
Mrs. Morris, grasping its staff, responded as fol-
lows.
	“It is with feelings of profound gratitude that
I receive for the state of Wyoming this beauti-
ful flag.
	It is seldom permitted man to stand a repre-
sentative for his commonwealth at the time of
its organization and during the period of its
transition from a condition of territorial de-
pendence to one of state independence. And
it has never before, I believe, been vouchsafed,
man to represent a state as its executive officer
on so auspicious an occasion as this.
	Here, in the open air, near the crest of the
continent, Wyoming, forming the keystone of
the arch of states extending from ocean to
ocean, celebrates an event significant in the ex-
treme, new in the history of our country, and
without precedent in the world; that is to say,
a state, in adopting its constitution, extends
free and equal suffrage to its citizens regard-
less of sex.
	Wyoming, in her progress, has not forgotten
the hands and hearts that have helped advance
her to her high position; and, in the adoption
of her constitution, equal suffrage is en-
trenched so securely that, it is believed, it will
stand forever.
	In this regard Wyoming is not less elevated
in her high and proud geographical position,
than in her example to her surrounding sister
states.
	The figures—44—representing the number
of our star on the dear old flag, the handsomest
and best beloved national emblem in the civi-
lized world—will always stand with us for
justice and equal right.
	Women of Wyoming, you have builded well
in your past efforts and conduct; and the men
of Wyoming extend heartiest greetings at this
time. They congratulate you upon your
achievments, and ask you to join them in the
future, as in the past, in securing good govern-
ment for our commonwealth. Your influence
has always tended toward higher development
and culture. And now in the near future,
when called upon to exercise your rights and
your privileges in the election of your officers,
who must be both your rulers and your ser-
vants, we have confidence that you will sub-
scribe to everything that is elevating and en-
terprising—a pure ballot—the highest moral
standing and the strictest personal responsibil-
ity in public officers—liberal educational
[Column 3]
facilities, and with all an economical and wise
financial policy and management.
	Ladies, for and on the part of the great
state of Wyoming, I thank you most sincerely
for this beautiful stand of colors. And I beg
to assure you it shall be cherished and pro-
tected as a souvenir of priceless value.”
					Thk Woman’s Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JOHN HOWARD PAYNE.

Life of the Author of "Home, Sweet Home."
	The music of the future may be enriched
by the products of men of more genius, learn-
ing, and wisdom than those of to-day, but it is
safe to say that so long as the world stands
there will never again be produced a song that
will so universally touch the human heart as
"Home, Sweet Home." While the ballad has
ever been one of which the most critical audi-
ence never weary, and its simple but touching
sentiments have endeared the author of all
home lovers throughout the world, probably
many are unaware that it is a song from an
opera entitled "Carl" composed by John
Howard Payne. The most notable rendition
of "Home, Sweet Home," of which there is any
account, was probably at the Jenny Lind con-
cert in Washington, on the night of December
17, 1850. John Howard Payne was present,
and the quarter of an hour during which he
listened to Jenny Lind's singing of this ballad
—which has since been heard in all lands—
was without doubt the most thrilling fifteen
minutes of his life. The theater was thronged
by an assembly which was perhaps the most
distinguished ever gathered in any concert hall
in this country. President Fillmore, Daniel
Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and 
Payne were among the celebrities present. The
"Swedish Nightingale" was in perfect voice,
and her rendition of each part of the programme
elicited most enthusiastic applause from the 
vast audience. When, however, in answer to
the encore, Jenny Lind turned toward John
Howard Payne and gave "Home, Sweet Home"
with all the tenderness and purity of feeling
embodied in the words and air perfectly in-
terpreted through the medium of her wonder-
ful voice, there were few present who could
fail to see the difference between the plaudits
called out by a mere display of fine vocali-
zation and those accorded to a power which
thrilled their very hearts. They were enthusi-
astic before the first line of the song was
finished, and to such an extent that they could
scarcely wait for a pause in which to give vent
to their feelings. Then it seemed as if the up-
roar would never cease. Persons known to be
of most undemonstrative character shouted,
clapped, and stamped as if their senses had de-
parted. During this ovation the eyes of the
entire audience were upon Payne—an under-
sized, gray-haired man, of gentlemanly bear-
ing, who was covered with confusiou at find-
ing himself the center of attraction in that
vast assembly.
	Payne’s early history is still involved in
obscurity, but it is certain that his childhood
was passed at East Hampton, the most easterly
town of Long island. His father was principal
of the Clinton academy, one of the first insti-
tutions of its kind established on Long Island.
The village consists of only one wide street,
where the residences are chiefly farmers'
houses, with farms stretching to the ocean
shore on one side and to pine plains on the
other.
	When Payne was seventeen years of age he
established in New York city a weekly paper
called the Thespian Mirror. His first appearance
on the stage was at Park theater, New York, 
in the character of Young Norval.
	After professional visits to Boston and other
cities lie went to London and made a success.


ful debut in the same character at Drury Lane.
He is described at this time as being as beauti-
ful in person as he was remarkable in intellect.
After leaving London he visited Paris, where
he passed his time in writing the following
dramas; “Brutus,” “Therese; or, the Orphan
of Genoa,” and “Clare; or, the Maid of Milan,”
in which he included the song upon which the
author’s fame is founded.
	In a number of the Home Journal, published
many years since, were two verses of "Home, 
Sweet Home" that do not accompany the usual
version, and they are here reproduced:

Tell us, in despite of the absence of years,
How sweet the remembrance of home still appears;
Form allurements abroad, which but flatter the eye,
The unsatisfied heart turns and says with a sigh,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There’s no place like home!
		There’s no place like home!

Your exile is blessed with all fate can bestow,
But mine has been checkered with many a woe!
Yet, though different our fortunes, our thoughts are the
	same,
And both, as we think of Columbia, exclaim,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There's no place like home!
		There's no place like home!

	In regard to the above verses the corres-
pondent who sent them to the Journal says:
"In winter of 1833 or 1834 I was dining
with an American lady, the wife of an eminent
banker. During my visit Mr. Payne called
and presented her with a copy of 'Home,
Sweet Home,' set to music, with two additional
verses addressed to her, and these she allowed
me to copy, and I enclose them to you to print."
	The irony of fate is aptly evidenced in the
sad death and burial in a strange land across
the ocean of a man whose love for home and
his native land gave to the world the touching
ballad that will immortalize his name for ages 
to come.
	The poet of home was buried in a foreign
land, and the body rested there for thirty
years, until it was brought to America. The
remains arrived in New York, March 23, 1863,
and lay in state in the governor's room in the
city hall until the following day. The body
was then taken to Washington and given in
charge of the authorities of Oak Hill cemetery,
The final interment took place June 9th, the
ninety-first anniversary of the poet's birth.
The burial place was chosen by W. W. Cor-
coran, and is on the crest of a hill which
slopes down into the valley of Rock creek
Mr. Corcoran selected R. S. Chilton who wrote
the inscription for the monument at Tunis, as
the poet for the memorial service, and since
that time the remains of John Howard Payne
have peacefully reposed in his native land. 
	After the removal of Payne's body from the
tomb at Tunis the vacant grave was covered
with marble slabs, upon which were inscribed:
	Sure, when thy gentle spirit fled
		To realms above the azure dome,
	With outstretched hands God's angel said,
		"Welcome to heaven's 'Home, Sweet Home.'"
								Hearth and Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BENEFITS OF PRIMARY ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Solomon says “as the twig is bent the tree
inclines" for this reason, the Primary Associa-
tion is among the most important organizations
connected with the Latter Day work, for ’tis
here the very young children learn of the
teachings of our Savior when upon the earth,
proclaiming the same gospel that has in our
day been restored to man through Joseph
Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century;
'tis here the little children are taught to love


and revere the Father and His only son Jesus
Christ, who loved good children so well that
He said “suffer little children to come unto
me for of such is the kingdom of Heaven.” ’Tis
here that all the offspring of all our fathers
and mothers are,or may be taught to lift their
voices in prayer to Him who gave them their
very being, and it is at these meetings even the
lisping babe learns to sing praises to His Holy
name.
	What a labor it must be for those who are
set apart by the servants of the living God to
thus instruct us, that the youngest may be able
to understand the true way to gain everlasting
life.  These are some of the benefits and bless-
ings to be obtained by becoming an earnest
worker in the Primary Association; then let us
each one strive to fully appreciate these Heaven
given blessings.
						IDA MAY SMITH.
	Parowan.

	The Millenial Star. Liverpool: George Teas
dale, 42, Islington, pp. 824.—This weekly
which is the organ of the Latter-day saints in
this country, has wonderfully preserved its
fulness, go, and vigor for the last fifty-one years
and never was it so ably conducted as it is
to-day.  Under the guidance of Mr. Teasdale,
the head quarters of the Latter-day Saints is a
centre of untiring energy, unflagging zeal, in-
domitable pluck, and of most varied resource.
From it streams the best literature of the
movement, and all is issued at the lowest pos-
sible price.  The “Millenial Star” is always
solid yet bright, fresh yet never frivolous,
weighty yet never heavy, and instructive yet
always attractive.  Many of the articles deal
exhaustively with misunderstandings, misrep-
resentations, and mistreatment.  These articles
are scholarly, manly, fair, and while they are
courteous, they never mince matters.  The
editor courts inquiry and discussion.  He
maintains the divine origin and authority of
the book of Mormon, and states calmly and dis-
passionately the grounds of his faith and he
seeks that those grounds be as calmly and dis-
passionately examined.  The other articles
consist of reports of meetings held both in
Salt  Lake  City and in these three king-
doms; also notes on news, excerpts from the
Mormon periodical literature.  The magazine
is one of singular power and freshness, and is
well worthy of any religious denomination.
In its annual form it makes a handsome and
interesting volume.—The Hymn book of the
Latter-day Saints has now reached its twentieth
edition.  It consists of three hundred and
fifty-six hymns, selected from various sources.
The book may be had in every style of binding,
and at the lowest possible prices.  It is a very
fine collection of sacred songs, and no wonder
that the demand for them is so great.
			Brighouse and Rastrick Gazette.
	England.


The superior man wishes to be slow in his
words and earnest in his conduct.— Confucious.


A PIONEER WOMAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking the readers of the EXPONENT would be in-
terested in learning of the death of one of the early settlers
of Salt Lake Valley we send you the notice of the death of
Rebecca Hangum Adair, aged 76 years one of the pioneer
women that arrived in Salt Lake City, July 1847 shortly
after the entrance of the first pioneers.  She was the wife
of Brother Adair since deceased; she afterwards married
Brother Wesley Adair a cousin of her first husband  She
was a resident of Washington, Utah Ter., she was among
the first settlers of St. John's,Arizona in the year 1878; her
home recently was in Luna Valley, New Mexico,  She was
at the time of her death on a visit, (accompanied by her
husband) to her daughter Mrs. Stayner, at Bisbee, Arizona.


Her body was brought here (St. David) for burial July 18,
1890, as this was the nearest Mormon settlement, and it
was her greatest desire to be buried among the Saints.
The above information was received from her husband and
daughter.
				MARIA MC'RAE, Pres. R. S.
				CYRENA MERILL, Stake Coun. R. S.
	St. David, Arizona.


Tickets 
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER.
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
