VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1890.	NO. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Hephziba h. Trip Through Oneida Stake,—
May Anderson. Conference and Meetings.
Myths About Woman.—Ex. Joseph Smith and
Patriarchal Marriage,—Eliza D. Gibbs. R. S.
Reports—San. Juan—Utah. The Coming Brother-
hood,—Miss Frances E. Willard. Notes and
News. Throwing the Glove.
	Editorial:—Wasatch Reunion. History of
Utah. Editorial Note. A Social Event. Wed-
ding Anniversary. In Memoriam. Utah W. S.
A.—Rachel Edwards.
	Poetry:—Open the Gate,—W. E. Pabor.
Good Night and Good By,—Ida M. Davis. A
Reminiscence,—Emily H. Woodmansee.


[Column 1]

OPEN THE GATE.

A Message from the Mountains.

[Read by W. E. PAEOR, of the Grand Junction (Col.)
Daily Star, at the National Editorial Convention in Boston,
June 25, 1890.]

I.
PRELUDE.

In distant zones, where ice-locked seas
	Conceal the secrets of the pole,
The arctic day dwarfs men and trees,
	And shadows rest upon the soul,
As well as on the eyes of men;
	Hiding the happy lands that lie
Beyond the reach of human ken
	Beneath an Andalusian sky.
With glittering grace the iceberg floats
	Southward, to lose its shape at last,
Where white sails flap on pleasure boats
	To sound of singing, sailing past.
All nature's lessons ever tend
	To teach new truths to fit new times,
As arctic nights at last must end
	And icebergs melt in tropic climes;
And so to-day the woman's night
	Is merging in the woman's morn;
The wrong is yielding to the right;
	The Woman's Suffrage day is born.

An echo comes out of the darkness
	Of the ages, that have been;
A plaintive, yet passionate pleading,
Blent with womanly interceding,
	With questions of why or when,
One being was made superior
While others were deemed inferior—
	As women are deemed by men.

And lo! i the wavering shadow,
	A woman, with lifted hands,
In the uttermost pose of pity,
At the gate of a mighty city,
	A patient suppliant stands.
There are riveted bars of iron,
And the city's gate they environ,
	As with adamantine bands.

A city that looms through the darkness
	And built when the world was young;
A city made famous in story
By legends as old and as hoary
	As ever were said or sung;
While under its shadowy arches,
Float echoes of musical marches,
	And flags on the air are flung.

But ever comes up through the darkness
	Outside of the city's gate,
The appeal of a helpless woman;
In the name of all that is human,

[Column 2]

	For present or future fate!
That the gate be opened as broadly,
As the city itself is lordly,
	To women who outside wait.

But over the walls comes one answer
	To th' women on bended knee;
We men are the lords of creation;
We rule in the halls of the nation;
	And the ballot, is the key
To the glory that we are grasping.
To the scepter that we are clasping,
	To the flag that we call free.

We are powerful while we hold it;
	Through its magic we are strong;
With its Archimadean lever
We have bound to ourselves forever
	The rights that to it belong;
There's none for the sex that is weaker,
Though we honor and love the seeker.
	And will praise her charms in song.

And thus through the gloom and the darkness
	Of the long departed years,
There has drifted these sounds of pleading;
And of womanly interceding,
	Blending with hopes and fears;
And still, in the season of trial,
Has come back the voice of denial,
	In despite of woman's tears.

For without is the veil of darkness
	And within, the blaze of light;
But the gate of this stately city
To appeal of justice or pity
	Is barred in the day and night;
And without are the women, weeping;
While within, are men who are keeping
	Them out of the Suffrage Right.

II.
PRELUDE.

A drop of water on a rock
	In time, a channel makes; and so
These later ages feel the shock
	Begun long centuries ago.
The city's gate is now ajar !
	The darkness lifts, and lo! we see
The rising of the woman's star
	Upon our nation; not yet free,
Until man throws his greed aside
	And, taking woman by the hand
He matches love with equal pride
	And bids her close beside him stand
The while she drops the ballot in;
	That white slip symbol that will show
How woman can her welcome win,
	Through gates where men could only go.
Rise star of glory! East and West
	And North and South! upon our land
Let the bright rays of Suffrage rest 
	Till men and women equal stand.

For there cometh out of the darkness
	A glimmering, golden ray;
It runs down the edge of the shadow,
And over the green of the meadow
	And lights up the blooms of May;
whispers to those who are waiting,
And wondering, watching, debating,
	If this is the woman's day:

Be patient! The long night of darkness,
	Is yielding at last to light;
The dawn of a newer creation
And of woman's emancipation
	From error, and wrong, and might;
When man, long by selfishness blinded
At last will in justice be minded
	To give to woman her right.

[Column 3]

And up from homes of the nation,
	The hosts of the wronged ones rise;
Up, out of the lanes of the lowly
And out from the shrines of the holy
	With eager, impassioned eyes,
They reach for the rose of reprisal
They join in the hymn of revival
	Whose echo shall reach the skies.

No longer the shackles of serfdom
	Should fetter one half the race;
The ages of womanly terror,
And the eons of human error,
	Are all passing to their place;
And there cometh now an era,
Drawing nearer, nearer and nearer
	As the world moves on through space.

When we'll see through the lifting shadow,
	All roseate, warm and bright,
The city we sing of—whose g'ory,
Is the crown of the nation's story—
	Will be open, day and night;
And its iron gate will no longer
Be shut on the weak, by the stronger,
	And might no longer make right.

From the peaks of the snow crowned Sierras,
	We have seen the flush of morn;
And this message we bring from the mountains,
Where are hidden the hearts of the fountains
	Where the sparkling streams are born—
THROW OPEN THE GATE; for the column,
Of women who, sweet faced and solemn,
	Th' homes of the nation adorn.

They wake from their dreams of dependence
	Our equals they seek to stand;
Shall we count, as men count dumb cattle
These who move in the van of battle
	For home and truth in the land?
By martyr blood staining pages
Of Time since the earliest ages,
	Come, give them a comrade's hand.

Shall we on this issue be silent?
	Brothers, whose tongue is the pen,
Echo thou the song they are singing!
Herald thou the dawn they are bringing
	Equal in all things; and when,
With ballot in hand they come to us
With beauty and strength to subdue us
	We'll own them, equals of men.

The message I bring from the mountains
	Should find echo in this place;
On the shores where the Mayflower landed
Let the gift of Suffrage be handed
	To the women fair of face!
Oh brothers! the robe of dishonor
Is ours, if we place not upon her,
	The ballot that crowns the race.

And if, in the days that are coming,
	The land should a queen implore,
By all that's divine in the human,
By all that is loving in woman,
	We'll give her one honor more
And welcome her on to the station
The highest of all in the nation!
	We win through the White House door.


The Wimodaughsis, or "Union of Women,"
which has been incorporated to procure suit-
able grounds and buildings for a permanent
headquarters for the National American Wo-
man Suffrage Association, has placed its 
capital stock at $24,000, divided into shares
of five dollars each. Persons wishing to take 
stock may address Miss Emma M. Gillett, 802
F Street, Washington, D. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXIV.

Locked in the secret chamber of her heart,
	A living sorrow, nursed by silent grief;
Henceforth thro' all her life to be apart,
	Whatever else might come to bring relief.

	The next few days after Mrs. H. was install-
ed in the home of Miss B. as companion, were
very sad and sober ones, the weather was un-
pleasant and Hepsie was so low-spirited that
it seriously affected her health, and Miss B.
grew nervous and almost irritable. It was
just Christmas time too but there were no signs
of festivities in Nauvoo. No gay shop windows,
not even on Main street, everything seemed to
wear a sombre and desolate appearance.
	Hepsie's grief was something new and
strange to her new found friend, she could not
comprehend how she could cry day and night
too, and reproached her rather severely on two
or three occasions, showing very little
sympathy for her forlorn condition, except to
give her food and shelter. It was just as well
however; for to the young wife, no one per-
haps could have said exactly the right things;
and she seemed to desire most of all, to be left
to herself.
	"How can you grieve yourself to death for a
man who has treated you so cruelly? such a
helpless creature as you are too, taking you
away from every one you loved and cared for,
I should hate him. Why its all I can do to
endure being alone as I am, and for that mat-
ter I came of my own accord and had nobody
to leave that I cared a cent for, so I've nothing
to go back to."
	"But" said Hepsie, "you came for your re-
ligion did'nt you, and you can't give that up
whatever trials you may have. I know you
are lonely and I'm sorry you're disappointed
in me, I am not companionable, and perhaps I
never shall be again, but I mean to get well
and then I expect to teach, and earn my own
living."
	"You'll not teach here in Nauvoo, there's no
prospect of future prosperity here, the people
will have to move from this place, I'm pretty
sure of that, why Joseph was making every
calculation on going into the wilderness be-
fore he was killed, don't you know that he even
crossed over the river in the night to go, and
Emma and some of his friends induced him to
come back again!"
	"No, I did not know it, never had an idea
of the people leaving here, this is the gathering
place, and the Temple is to be finished and
dedicated, that must be done," said Hepsie.
	“Nauvoo is full of apostates, and many are
somewhat disaffected, who have not declared
themselves open enemies, a fire is smoldering
just about ready to burst, the crisis may come
at any time, and I'm not at all certain that the
Temple will be completed."
	"But Miss B. you will keep with the Saints,
go or stay with them, wherever their lot may
be cast?"
	"Mrs. H. you are very confiding, notwith-
standing your having been left so utterly de-
pendent, I should think you would be embit-
tered beyond trusting any one again, I posi-
tively don't appreciate such devotion."
	"My trust and faith is in my religion, not in
man. Henceforth my life and labor shall be.
given to the cause I have embraced."
	"You cannot do anything at present, look
at your poor thin face and colorless hands,
totally unfit and unprepared for work of any
sort."
	"I am not discouraged however," replied
Mrs. H. "I know now that my Heavenly
Father protects me since He sent you to me on
that dreadful night, when I was about to be
left so utterly alone."
	Christmas and the New Year came and went

[Column 2]

not however without awakening intense emo-
tions in Hepsie's heart, and stirring its inner
fountains to their utmost depths, no one to
speak to except auntie, as she called Miss B.,
and she was full of bitter repinings, that were
as unpleasant as the weather was cold and dis-
agreable, and there was nothing to call either
of them outside. Such intense loneliness, and,
Hepsie waiting, longing and praying fot a let-
ter from Harold or from home, yet dreading
to receive one lest it should confirm her sus-
picions. She knew the dear ones in the home
nest would write if they knew what to say, but
her lips were sealed, she could not speak of
her circumstances, lest it should seem like a
complaint. Day after day she looked anxious-
ly for news from Harold, she could not be-
lieve he had gone from her heart forever; she
looked forward to his return at some future
time when a full explanation would be made;
and at night she often dreamed of the fulfill-
ment of her bright hopes and ardent wishes.
The dreamy life she led, and the queer com-
panionship of her protectress, together with the
condition of her nervous system, tended to pro-
nounced melancholy, but she struggled in
prayer and the exercise of the best feculties
she possessed and conquered in part. One
evening there came a letter in the familiar hand-
writing she knew so well; poor child she trem-
bled so it was with difficulty she broke the seal,
her tears were falling in great drops like rain,
and it was hours before she could finish read-
ing it; Harold had writen to her as though he
had not wounded her beyond recovery; his
words were tender, but hard as it seemed to the
tender-hearted wife she felt they were hollow
and meaningless. He called her, "Hepise my
darling wife:—" how could he write like that;
knowing as he must, that he had separated
her from her dear ones, and that henceforth an
insurpassable chasm lay between them that
could never be spanned. Miss B. wanted to
know what news from far away, she had
guessed from Hepsie's excited manner that it
was from Harold; it was useless to question
her however, silence seemed to Hepsie the best
safeguard; then and forever after the contents
of that letter remained locked in her own
heart, and were never revealed to friend or foe,
yet looking back after the space of many
years and recalling the sweet and tender
words expressed therein, and remembering that
sweet Summer-time among the New England
hills when all things wore the couleur de rose,
she marveled that she had not given up all
for him and the promises he held out to her of
fidelity and devotion; it was the spiritual na-
ture that conquered and kept her from yield-
ing to Harold's entreaties to come to him in
the sunny Southern Islands.
	A few days later another letter came, and
finally the third and last, for never again by
word or message of any kind did Harold make
known to her any personal knowledge of him-
self or his after life.
	The words he had written met with no re-
sponse from her lips or hand, though we may
not know what impression they made, or what
answering echo they found hidden deep down
in her wounded woman's heart; but she lived
through all—cold and impenetrable seemingly,
but as the Spring days grew warm and bright,
a faint color came back to her pale lips and
cheeks.
	A final separation from Harold was inevita-
ble, he was not coming back, and she had such
an innate conviction of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the truths re-
vealed through him, of the everlasting Gospel
that she could not consent to leave Nauvoo
and the chosen people of God; though she
should henceforth be left dependent upon her
own exertions.
	A letter from Lucy Reynolds stating that
she was about to start for Nauvoo comforted

[Column 3]

her somewhat, and another soon after from
her mother saying, "we expect to come in Sep-
tember," seemed to awaken new life in her
dormant faculties.
	She talked much to Miss B. of her mother,
telling her of her wonderful faith, her know-
ledge of the Scriptures, and of her arguments
with learned men, especially ministers, who had
ridiculed the idea of Joseph Smith an unedu-
cated youth being a Prophet of God. She
sought to inspire in. Miss B. a greater degree
of faith, for it was very irksome to be associ
ated with one so unbelieving and worldly-
minded, one who had no spiritual life and who
was always dwelling on the dark-side of things.
She longed intensely for her mother, full of
faith and energy, thinking no sacrifice too
great to make for her religion. During the
winter she had gone out a few times only to
meetings and lectures in the Masonic Hall—it
was not far, but it was almost too much for
her, and Miss B. never wanted to go with her; 
but Hepsie kept alive a spark of living faith,
that enabled her to hold on to the truths of
which she had become so thoroughly con-
yinced since coming to Nauvoo, even though
there had been many stumbling blocks in her
pathway, yet her faith never wavered.
	Just before the news came from the East of
Lucy Reynold's and her husband's coming, she
received a verbal message from the Harveys'
Harold's father, mother and brother to come
to them at Laharpe, they fully believed if she
would, Harold could be induced to return
home once more. Harold's father would come
for her with an easy conveyance, and she
should be waited upon until she was fully re-
covered; "if she had not been so obstinate about
leaving Nauvoo," Mrs. Harvey's message said
repeating her very words, "Harold would not
have gone away, baby would have been living,
and much sorrow averted." This message
stung Hepsie to the very centre of her soul,
but with her accustomed outward serenity she
answered the brother and sister who had
brought her the word, (they were professed
Latter-day Saints) "I cannot leave Nauvoo; on
that point I am still as determined as ever, if
Harold comes he will find me here if I am liv-
ing at all."
	"But" added the stranger "the Saints will
certainly be driven from here into the western
wilds, you are not equal to such hardships."
	"If this people go from Nauvoo I shall go
to, my nome hereafter shall be with the Saints,
it is useless to ask me to go backward, I can-
not."
	"And you would give up your husband
and all, his family are well off, you would
never have to lift your finger, Mrs. Harvey
says you have decided literary taste, there
would be every opportunity for you as a writer
to make yourself known better hero in Illinois
than in New England where there are so many,
you understand."
	Hepsie knew these were Mrs. Harvey's own
words, but they made no impression upon her.
	"Then am I to say to the Harvey's who
wished me to urge you to come, that you re-
fuse to accept their proposals." 
	"Say to the Harvey's, I will not leave
Nauvoo though I should die of starvation in
the street."
	"And nothing more," said the stranger.
	"Only my love to Harold's brother, Oney
Andre."


There is no fit search after truth which does
not, first of all, begin to live the truth which
is known.—H. Bushnell.
	The longer I live the more certain I am
that the great difference between the great
and insignificant is energy—invincible deter-
mination—an honest purpose once fixed, and
then victory.— Goethe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD NIGHT AND GOOD BYE.

When the gold and red of the setting sun
	Grows pale and fades at the close of day;
When the melting splendor is over and done,
	And night draws on and covers the way;
We do not hope its return in vain,
For we know that the morrow will come again,
		This is good-night.

When we part with a clasping hand at night
	From the friend we love, we feel regret,
And the bright, warm heart takes with it the light
	And joy of our own hearthstone; and yet
This regret is not a hopeless pain,
For we know that the friend will come again.
		This is good-night.

When we leave the shore that has known our birth,
	When turn our longing sight to fill
Our hearts with memories of sorrow and mirth
	Of the sweet and vanished past, until
The night draws on, we strain our eyes
For a long, last look in our paradise,
		This is good-bye.

When a soul is called from the busy throng,
	To tread the paths of an untried way,
And the night seems cold and dark and long,
	And we look our last on the form of clay,
We know we have said our last adieu,
And the broken vows we cannot renew.
		This	is good-bye.

When we stand at the gate at eve with those
	Who have filled our lives with joy or pain
To watch the light as it dimmer grows,
	And know we shall never watch it again.
We say the words and hear the reply,
And we know the farewell is spoken for aye,
		This is good-night and good-bye.
			IDA M. DAVIS.


TRIP THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.

	On June 8th a party left Preston to make
a trip through the Oneida Stake in the in-
terests of the Relief Society, Young Ladies
and Primary Associations.
	The party consisted of Sister E. S. Taylor,
Gen. Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Sister Louie
Felt Gen. Pres. and Miss May Anderson Cor.
Sec'y. for the Primaries, all of Salt Lake City,
Sister Elizabeth Fox Stake Pres. and Sister
Edith Hawkes and M. J. Hendricks Coun-
selors for the Relief Society. Sister Esther
Hendrickson Stake Pres. and Sister Susie
Parnell Stake Sec'y. for the Young Ladies,
Sister J. J. Eldredge Stake Pres, and Sisters
Rosenbaum and Mickleson for the Primaries.
	There were twelve wards visited, and 28
meetings held in eleven days. The Relief
Society and Young Ladies' Associations held
their meetings conjointly in many of the wards
owing to the time being so limited. The saints
generally are feeling well and most of the
societies are in good working condition.
	Some new associations were formed and
some re-organized.
	In the Primary associations the good order
maintained by the children was especially
noticable.
	The trip was a very pleasant one, the saints
being very kind and hospitable and doing
everything to make it easy and comfortable
for the sisters.
	Visited the dairy of Brother Sharp who
presented the company with a nice cheese,
which was very much appreciated during some
of the long drives. Leaving Mormon Ward
June 11th drove to Soda Springs where Bis-
hop Lau and wife very kindly entertained
the company. The next day was spent in
visiting eight of the different springs and hav-
ing a most enjoyable time. And in the even-
ing continued the journey to Chesterfield. In
Weston the Brass Band serenaded the com-


pany, and played at the opening and close of
the meetings held in that ward. The meetings
were brought to a close in Franklin on June
the 20th.
	The people were very much pleased to have
the sisters visit them, especially those from
Salt Lake City.
	In most of the wards the Bishopric and a
good representation of the Brethren attended
the meetings, and seemed very well pleased
with the instructions given by the sisters.
There is much credit due to Sister Eldredge,
who managed the whole affair in the most
efficient manner and made all arrangements
for stopping places.
		MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]

CONFERENCE AND MEETINGS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, and Coun-
selors, Mrs. Elizabeth Allred and Mrs. Sarah
A. Petersen, together with Miss Stena Wil-
lardson, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake ac-
companied by Mrs. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
City, Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of Manti, Mrs. Ellen
Dorius of Ephraim and others took a trip
through the north end of this county on the
14, 15 and 16 of June. The report if given
in full might prove too lengthy, so I append
but a brief sketch. We left Ephraim on Fri-
day evening and drove as far as Mt. Pleasant,
just happening to be present at the grand re-
ception tendered Ferdinand Erickson, a young
man just returned from Ann Arbor, a young
disciple of the law. We drove to Fairview the
next morning where Relief Society and Young
Ladies' conference was held the same day.
The attendance was good, the instructions ex-
cellent, and the utmost harmony prevailed.
	Sister Hyde spoke in tongues in the after-
noon at the Youngs Ladies' meeting, which be-
ing interpreted was an exhortation of great
fervency, and a prophecy of their future
achievements.
	The next day, June 15th,the party aug-
mented by Bishop Petersen of Fairview, and
others took their way to Indianola. Every
where from Manti to that place the crops
looked beautiful.
	Meeting was held at 10 o'clock of the same
day, and a reorganization of the Relief Society
made. The following are the names of the
officers: Charlotte Seeley, Pres. Elvira Seeley
First Counselor; S. G. Tanner, Second Coun-
selor; and Mary Seeley Sec. and Treasurer.
	A Y. L. M. I. A. organization was also
made with the following officers: Sarah
Spencer, Pres. Retta Lauretta Spencer First,
and Lillian Hjust Second Counselor.
	After dinner they began the return trip
holding meeting at 4 o'clock at Millburn, a
small newly organized settlement at the right
of the usual road. There are twenty-five
families and the town has every appearance of
prosperity. Here one new organization was
made. The Relief Society officers as follows:
Mary Christina Grayban, Pres. Terressa
Stewart First and Margaret Harker Second
Counselors; Mellicent Cox, Sec., and Elvira
Stewart Treasurer. There were so few mem-
bers that it was not deemed wise or expedient
to make a separate organization for the Young
Ladies, at present; they were accordingly in-
vited to join the Relief Society.
	The ladies then drove over to Fairview,
where they spent the night; going to Mt. Pleas-
ant the next morning in time for a ten o'clock
meeting. The two wards heretofore existing
having been consolidated into one ward, it be-
came necessary to reorganize the Relief Society
and Young Ladies' to correspond. These are
the names of the officers retained in the Relief
Society: M. F. C. Morrisson Pres. Caroline

[Column 2]

Simpson First, and Botilda Neilsen Second
Counselors; Louisa Hasler, Sec, and Tiny
Erickson as Assistant Sec., and Christina Peel
Treasurer.
	The following are the names of the officers
selected to preside over the Y. L. M. I. A.
at Mt. Pleasant.
	Augusta Erickson, Pres. Ellenor Reynolds,
First, and Celia Johansen Second. Couselors;
Caroline Lonegren Sec., and Anna Madson,
Treasurer. This completed the reorganizations.
In every case the former members were rein-
stated in their membership, and the officers
were set apart for their respective callings.
	Meeting was held the next day at Spying
City, which completed the labors of the visitors
who returned home on the evening of the same
day.
	I should personally have been glad to tran-
scribe the good instruction given in the meet-
ings for your readers; and told them of the
beautiful scenery, the cordial welcome extended
everywhere, and the respect aud courtesy
shown us by all; the numbers of beautiful
girls and angelic children that we saw,—the
highly appreciated conversation  of Sister
Horne and others on our long drives, but it
would swell this article to a volume; so will
close by saying that we traveled 70 miles, held
seven meetings, and effected five organizations
in three days.
		M. A. HYDE, Pres.
		E. J. Sec. pro tem,


MYTHS ABOUT WOMAN.

	Woman's first appearance has been a fruit-
ful subject for the legend mongers. The
Phoenician myth of creation is found in the
story of Pygmalion and Galatea. There the
first woman was carved by the first man out
of ivory and then endowed with life by
Aphrodite.
	The Greek theory of the creation of women,
according to Hesiod, was that Zeus, as a cruel
jest, ordered Vulcan to make woman out of
clay, and then induced the various gods and
goddesses to invest the clay doll with all their
worst qnalities, the result being a lovely thing
with a witchery of mien, refined craft, eager
passion, love of dress, treacherous manner, and
shameless mind.
	The Scandinavians say that as Odin, Vili,
and Ve, the three sons of Bor, wrere walking
along the sea beach they found two sticks of
wood, one ash and one elm. Sitting down the
gods shaped man and woman out of these
sticks, whittling the woman from the elm and
calling her Emia.
	One of the strangest stories touching the
origin of woman is told by the Madagascarenes.
In so far as the creation of man goes the
legend is not unlike that related by Moses,
only that the fall came before Eve arrived.
After the man had eaten of the forbidden fruit
he became affected with a boil on the leg, out
of which, when it burst, came a beautiful girl.
	The man's first thought was to throw her to
the pigs, but he was commanded by a mes-
senger from heaven to let her play among
the diggings until she was of marriageable age,
then to make her his wife. He did so, called
her Baboura, and she became the mother of all
races of men.
	The American Indians' myths relative to
Adam and Eve are numerous and entertain-
ing. Some traditions trace back our first
parents to white and red maize; another is that
man, searching for a wife, was given the
daughter of the king of muskrats, who, on be-
ing dipped into the waters of a neighboring
lake became a woman.	Ex.


During the summer, the Woman's. Tribune
will be published fortnightly instead of weekly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 1, 1890.


[Column 1]

﻿WASATCH REUNION.

	A reunion to the members of the Wasatch
Literary Association was given on the evening of
the 18th of June at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
F. D. Kimball. The entertainment was exceed-
ingly pleasant, and a perfect success socially, and
as a reminiscence of the past, when this Society
was in its glory and the young men and maidens
in the bloom of early life full of enthusiasm and
gaiety enjoying to the utmost the meetings, and
social entertainments that grew out of the organi-
zation.
	Many friendships were formed there that will
last forever and marriages consummated between
those that were thus associated in those halcyon
days of youthful enjoyments.
	The idea of a reunion had been talked of for
some time and finally resulted in an agreeable
social interview of old friends. The matter was
taken in hand by a few of the prominent members
of the early time, who formed committees, held
informal meetings, and prepared everything for
the delectation of the guests.
	On the evening of the entertainment the
grounds were handsomely illuminated and tables
spread on the lawn in readiness for the feast.
	The old members arriving in groups or a soli-
tary one from a distance, each warmly welcomed
by the host and hostess and a committee on re-
ception. A band on the lawn played charmingly
and everything betokened a joyous and festive
occasion.
	About nine o'clock the roll was called and the
old familiar names, (many of the ladies' names
sounding rather odd as they had since been 
changed).
	First on the programme of exercises "Remi-
niscences of the Wasatch" by O. F. Whitney—
followed by a piano solo "Gottschalk," Lena
Fobes, Reading "The Water Mill," Kittie Hey-
wood, Reading "Bill Nye," H. M. Wells, Violin
solo, Stan Clawson, accompanied by D. C. Young.
Sketch, H. G. Whitney, Anecdotes, B. S. Young,
Vocal duet Cornelia and Mattie Horne, Reading
of the "Budget Box" H. M. Wells, Critic, H. L.
A. Culmer.
	The Budget Box in former days was the source
of a great deal of fun, though sometimes very bit-
ter personals and satires caused a black cloud
occasionally to rest on the brow of a member,
who was thus severely handled. On this occa-
sion things in the distance seemed very funny,
and though some members were rather roughly
dealt with figuratively speaking, yet the thought
that it was of the dim and distant past made a
vast deal of difference. The critic gave a kindly
review rather than criticism, which with the remi-
niscence and sketch made quite a history of the
Wasatch of other days.
	The exersises over, the band on the lawn

[Column 2]

struck up lively strains of music cheering to the
soul; social conversations and friendly greetings
followed and each one had some remembrance
"of the good old days," until the call to supper on
the lawn for which ample provision had been
made, tables beautifully ornamented with flowers
and fruits, and each member of the Association
received a small hand-painted placque in flowers
tied with soft narrow ribbon, and containing
a written motto. After the supper was over
Bishop Whitney in behalf of the Association made
a presentation of an exquisite basket of flowers,
to Miss Kate Wells who had painted the charm-
ing little placques that were distributed to all the
members. Returning to the house after the sup-
per and presentation the band played "Auld lang
syne," the young people singing snatches of the
dear old song. The company enjoyed themselves
until "the wee sma hours" and dispersed with
happy hearts and many tender memories
awakened of the reminders of the days gone by.
Three at least of the prominent members had
passed away to that better land, and that of
course called up sad but sweet thoughts of the
dear departed ones who were wont to mingle their
voices in song and mirth, and jest.
	One thing we had almost forgotten to mention
in this notice of the pleasant reunion on Hey-
wood's Hill, at the old homestead, and that is that
telegrams and letters were read from some of the
members living at a distance, these were very
characteristic. We give below the programme of
the first gathering out of which grew this once
very popular Wasatch.

	Minutes of the first meeting of the Literary Asso-
ciation known as the——at the residence of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, State road January 21st 1874.
	Society met and organized, O. F. Whitney was
elected Chairman by a majority vote. Major W.
W. Woods became Chairman of the executive
committee by ballot, but resigned in favor of Miss
Mamie Jones who accepted. Misses Belle Clay-
ton and Cornelia Horne were elected assistants
by a majority.
	Miss Emma Wells was elected Secretary.
	It was moved and seconded that officers should
be elected each month by ballot—carried.
	The duties of officers were then debated upon
and settled.
	Moved that candidates for membership be ad-
mitted by ballot and rejected by three blank
votes.
	Moved that a critic be appointed each evening,
—carried.
	Enrollment of members present P. Margetts,
H. B. Emery, James Ferguson, Misses Kate and
May Wells and Rose Sipple became members.
	Moved that visitors be admitted at the next
meeting. Carried.
	Committee reported programme for next meet-
ing January 28th which was accepted.
	Executive Committee was enjoined to report
several names for the Society the next evening
session.
	Miss Mell Whitney by request read Mrs. Caudle's
lecture on "Spring Clothing," and was followed
by Major Woods who read "The one hoss shay," a
vote of thanks was tendered.
	By motion the meeting adjourned until January
28th, at the residence of H. K. Whitney 18th
Ward at the hour of 7:30 p. m.
		EMMA WELLS, Sec.


HISTORY OF UTAH.
	The Prospectus announcing the history of Utah
by Bishop Whitney has just been issued from
the press.
	The author gives some few ideas in reference
to the work he has undertaken to do. The his-
tory will comprise three large volumes of prob-


ably over 800 pages, and will include "a complete
narration and description of the settlement and
formation of the Territory, its growth and de-
velopment up to the present time."
	"Social, industrial, educational, political and re-
ligious" conditions will be carefully considered
and treated upon. Climate, scenery, natural re-
sources, churches, schools, railroads and institu-
tions in general; the various vocations and pro-
fessions practised by the people;" the work will
also include "biographies of notable men and
women with fine portraits accompanying."
	"Other illustrations such as cities, towns, pub-
lic and private buildings, scenery etc., will like-
wise appear."
	The book is to be published in Utah, by Dr.
John O. Williams of Denver and Chicago, who will
take personal charge and assume the entire re-
sponsibility of enterprise.
	The prospectus is followed by three pages of
testimonials from prominent men and women.
	The first testimonial is from the First Presi-
dency of the Church; the venerable President
Wilford Woodruff being the foremost pioneer of
'47 to enter the valley with Brigham Young.
George Q. Cannon came in with the first com-
pany that followed the pioneers who put in the
first crops, built the fort and opened up the
canons, Joseph F. Smith, Lorenzo Snow, F. D.
Richards, D. H. Wells, and others who have en-
dorsed the history have been the active colonizers
and associated in the arduous labors and various
movements incidental to founding and building up
a modern civilization, civil, political and gov-
ernmental in a heretofore uninhabited desert; and
in developing its natural resources, and establish-
ing industrial and educational enterprises.
	The women whose testimonials are given are
those who have figured conspicuously in the
settling of the desert etc., or are the daughters of
the real pioneers born upon the soil. The work
is very substantially endorsed by leading people
of the Territory, and will no doubt be satisfac-
torily completed in due time, but such an immense
undertaking as these books cannot be hurriedly
written. No doubt every facility possible will be
afforded to the writer, who enjoys to the fullest
extent the confidence of the people.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	We take great pleasure in the contemplation of
a truthful and correct history of Utah Territory,
and the selection of Bishop Orson F. Whitney
to write the history is eminently proper, as he has
been familiar from childhood with the lives and
experiences of the foremost men and women who
have founded a thriving and prosperous Territory
in the midst of an uninhabited desert. The Bish-
op's poetic and classic style of writing tends to 
originality, and his fine conception of the subjects
he has heretofore undertaken naturally leads to 
the conclusion that he will succeed in making this
important work not only lasting but interesting
and versatile. Moreover his heart is in the labor
which is an essential characteristic in a work of
such magnitude. We have no hesitancy in
heartily endorsing the choice made by the pub-
lisher's and believe and trust the enterprise will
be a permanent success.


A SOCIAL EVENT.
	On the 17th of June a pleasant party of ladies
gathered at the residence of Mrs. Maria W. Wil-
cox in this city to celebrate the anniversary of
her birthday. It was quite a surprise to the lady
herself as the invitations had been given out and
preparations made by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson
and Mrs. Wilcox daughter Ella and her son's
wife Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox.
	The company was a congenial one, of old-tim


friends and relatives and the conversation was
general with interchanges of greetings and con-
gratulations.
	Mrs. Wilcox has been for many years an
active member in the Relief Society and since
the Stake organization of the R. S. has filled the
place of Cor. Sec'y., and was chosen two or three
years since President of the Relief Society in the
14th Ward of this city, a position which requires
wisdom, charity, experience and good executive
ability. The many friends who met on her
birthday after congratulating her and wishing for
her many happy returns of the day with health,
happiness and prosperity, also offered her con-
gratulations on her son's account C. F. Wilcox,
who recently returned from New York where he
graduated with honors a full-fledged M. D. Al-
together the affair was a success excepton ac-
count of the absence of some particularly dear
friends who were invited, but whom circum-
stances prevented from coming. Mrs. Wilcox
received some very tasteful and elegant presents
as souvenirs of the happy meeting and we must
also add that the flowers were lovely and the
refreshments delicious and handsomely served.
	The writer adds her grateful acknowledements
for the very pressing invitation given her and ex-
presses her regret that she was unable to attend,
but hopes to enjoy the society of those who met
to honor that day on many similar occasions in
the future.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
	At "the old home" of the Howards' in Cotton-
wood on the 25th of June 1890—Mr. and Mrs.
Isaac Brockbank celebrated the thirtieth anni-
versary of their marriage.  Among the guests
were many of those who had graced the marriage
feast thirty years before.  In those days the
mention of "the Howard home" in Cottonwood
was significant of a good time; many a pleasure
party has been held there in the days gone by,
that will be remembered with vivid emotions
sacred to friendship while life shall last.  Of those
who were in the habit of assembling there in
those days some have gone to "that better land,"
but many yet remain who also shared in the fes-
tivities and hospitalities that were so enjoyable
and so cordially extended.
	Miss Kate Howard (Mrs. Brockbank) was the
eldest daughter of the Howard family, and has
now been married for many years, and is the
mother of a large and interesting family who were
not present on that auspicious day three decades
ago.  She appeared at her thirtieth anniversary
in the identical wedding dress, worn when a
young and blushing bride, which looked fresh and
charming, and the lady herself with her sparkling
black eyes, and wavy iron grey hair was all the
more stately and dignified for the crown of wife-
hood and motherhood she has wrought for her-
self out of the golden threads of her full and
beautiful life as the years have been borne along.
	The bridegroom's manner betokened happiness
and prosperity, if his appearance was not as
youthful as it had been thirty years before, and
the party altogether was a most enjoyable affair.
The feast was elaborate and served in excellent
style, the most delicious fruits and beautiful
flowers adorned the tables and the rare old china
and silver brought by the Howards from over the
seas, showed to great advantage.
	The presents from the family and friends were
in good taste, and suitable to the occasion; and
in short the festivities were all of a character
calculated to produce and leave a pleasant and
gratifying impression.  One of the interesting
features of the gathering, was the reading of a
poem in memory of the wedding day which had
been celebrated at the same place, composed by
a very dear friend Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee.
	We add our sincere congratulations to Brother
[Column 2]
and Sister Brockbank on having reached this
milestone of the matrimonial journey, and hope
and trust they may arrive in safety together at the
fiftieth anniversary, and then and forever after en-
joy all the blessings spiritual and temporal with
the rich experiences that fall to the lot of those,
who are seeking eternal life in the celestial king-
dom.
A REMINISCENCE.
	[Affectionately inscribed to the author's esteemed friends
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Brockbank, on the 30th anniversary
of their wedding day.]

Is't possible Katie 'tis thirty years since—
We danced at your wedding that sweet summer night,
While the birds sang their songs and th' wild roses bloom'd;
And Nature herself was to gladness attuned,
And existence was fraught with delight.

I recall so distinctly, that beautiful day—
In June, eighteen sixty, the time you was wed;
The bridegroom was buoyant, the neighbors were gay;
And "City folks" too, quite a goodly array—
Graced the feast so deliciously spread.

Hospitality! ope'd her beneficent hand;
And sweet strains of music pervaded the air;
The young "country couples" of course lent a hand,
And a ball (unexclusive) was cleverly planned,
'Twas refreshing indeed to be there.

'Twas a jubilant wedding! the high and the low—
Were equally honored in Utah, (just then):
One was good as another, (decidedly so);
And haughty, King Caste, wasn't potent, for lo—
There was really no proud "Upper Ten."

Times and customs have chang'd, sure we cannot but see,
The poor, are too often "left out in the cold."
Those primitive days were delightful to me,
I marvel, so many were happy and free
Without either silver or gold.

Surpassingly sweet, is the morning of life;
The future looks cloudless, the prospect is fair,
But later, we learn that afflictions are rife,
That mortals must struggle with sorrow and strife,
And wrestle with "Giant Despair."

But, thanks be to God, for the strength He bestows,
For the peace that He pours into desolate hearts;
When adversity's blast like a hurricane blows,
In "The Mighty One's" mercy the meek can repose;
Such comfort, "Our Father" imparts,

Oh Spring time of hope, evanescently bright,
Thy "castles" so shatter'd, we've ceased to deplore;
Shake hands, "Father Time" and with spurs speed the
flight—
For wisdom and rest, comes with age, and with night,
And friendship is sweet as of yore.

Ah! little it matters if tresses turn gray,
If eyes lose their luster, (as doubtless they do)
The loving, are lovely, and youthful for aye,
Though the body must weaken, and yield to decay—
The spirit for ever is new.

And, what if you're wedded, for thirty years more?
'Twill be only a preface to love's lasting theme;
When humanity's sorrows and failings are o'er—
On the opposite side of Eternity's shore—
Love and Truth will be valued as never before;
Then, we'll realize poesy's dream.

Life's practical lessons, are needful we know,
But conjugal pleasures, at times they destroy;
Affection, and patience, together should grow;
True sympathy, confidence, courage and lo,
All partners of love and of joy.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, June 25, 1890.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Our beloved President, Harriet A. Snow, wife
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, passed away from
earth on Monday, May the 12th, at three o'clock
a. m., after an illness of four weeks, having suf-
fered severly from paralysis.


Harriet Amelia Snow, daughter of Aaron and
Elizabeth P. Squires, was born Sept. 13th 1819, in
Aurora, Portage Co. Ohio. Her honorable lineage
is established by the fact, that her parants were
natives of New England, one of her grandfathers
served in the Revolutionary War, and her pro-
genitors came to America in the Mayflower.
	She embraced the Gospel when 25 years of age.
In January 1846 she married Elder Lorenzo
Snow, left for the West in Feb. '46, stayed in
Mt. Pisgah ’till the Spring of '48, then left with
her husband for the Rocky Mountains, and ar-
rived in the fall, of the same year.
	She succeeded Sister Leonora Morley (sister to
Eliza R. Snow) as president of the Relief Society
of Brigham City 1871, in March '78 she was ap-
pointed president of the Relief Society of the
Stake, which position she held with great honor
until the time of her death. 
	“Aunt Harriet,” as we lovingly called her, was
a woman with a strong mind and a tender heart
full of humility and submission, firm in faith and
hope, duty was her law, she, was loving and wise
in nursing the sick, in washing and anointing,
we felt perfect faith that the Lord heard her sup-
plications; she had gained the full confidence of
the sisters of this stake, hers was a disposition
the better we knew her, the more we loved her.
“Aunt Harriet” was a hard worker, a true
“mother in Israel," and would never slight duty
to gratify her own comfort. These are the heart-
felt sentiments of the sisters of Box, Elder
Stake.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of this
Memorial to her husband and to the members of
her family, also a copy to be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SUSANNAH P. BOOTH, 1st Coun.
	OLIVIA WIDERGORG, 2nd
	MARY E. SNOW, Sec.
	FANNIE GRAEHL, Treas.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


UTAH W. S. A.
	Minutes of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of Utah held Saturday June 14, 1890 in the 14th
Ward Assembly rooms.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball presided,prayer by Mrs. M.
Mitchell. Minutes of the previous meeting read
and accepted.
	A committee of 7 was appointed to appoint
honorary vice presidents throughout the Terri-
tory, consisting of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. J.
S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, and Elizabeth Howard.
	The following ladies made a few remarks.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, Mrs. E. S. Richards,Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. MacFarlane, Mrs. C. E. Dye, Mrs.
P. Y. Beatie,Mrs. M. Mitchell, Mrs. P. C.Young,
Miss R. Edwards and Mrs. A. E. Neal.
	Dr. Pratt moved that Miss Edwards lecture
upon Parliamentary law at the next meeting,
carried. Meeting then adjourned until Sept.
				RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec.


JOSEPH SMITH AND PATRIARCHAL
			MARRIAGE.

	While confined to a bed of sickness from
which I was recovering, my mind reverted
back to the early ages of bible history. My
mind concentrated on a man of great notoriety.
One held in profound reverence in the present
age. Although thousands of centuries have
come and gone; rolled into the insatiable
abyss of eternity still his name, his fame,
implicit obedience to the will of his Creator is
a theme sung by poets and divines of every
sect in Christendom. A personage so favored
of God that he talked face to face with Him
as one man talketh with another. God also


[Column 1]
appointed him to stand as father and Patri-
arch to His chosen people; a people designed
to be the receptacle of His divine call; also
through the lineage of this people was des-
tined to be born the Redeemer of the world,
who will eventually reign King of kings and
Lord of lords over all His vast creation.
	Such a favored and exalted personage as
this old patriarch Abraham was, we would,
certainly without doubt—accept it as an
established fact, that he must be a perfect
pattern of righteousness, purity, and unsullied
virtue; without spot or blemish. But strange
as it may appear to this enlightened Christian
generation this honored and holy, God chosen
personage was a veritable polygamist at the
very time, while he was receiving the divine
law right from the mouth of Jehovah. Had
he lived in this age of morals and purity he
would have been thrust into prison, or per-
chance shot down in the street. Not only did
this ancient worthy practice the obnoxious
principle but he transmited it to his prosterity.
His grandson had four wives and thus it was
handed down from generation to generation as
long as the descendants of Abraham existed as
a nation. Moses the great law receiver and
law giver who also talked with God face to
face—received the law direct from Jehovah,
was himself also a polygamist.
	Thus do we trace the practice of this man
—condemned—principle down to the reign of
kings.
	King David a man after God’s own heart
had hundreds of wives and his son Solomon
after him, and in neither case were they even
reproved for the number of their wives.
	David was condemned and his wives taken
from him because of his sin in the case of
Uriah’s wife, and Solomon because of his tak-
ing strange wives from idolatrous nations.
Through the prophet Nathan God said, He
gave David his wives and would have done
more for him had he not sinned. There is not
an instance either in the old or New Testament
where a man was reproved or even censured
in the least for the number of his wives.
Surely if the Lord had been the least displeased
with the practice He would have forbidden it,
especially those receptacles of His divine
law. 
	On the contrary it is very plain He did
not.
	After the reign of David and Solomon little
mention is made of plurality of wives, but one
thing is certain, there cannot be found in
sacred or profane history anything to prove
that it was abolished before or since the
Christian ears, until we come down to the days
of Catholicism.
	After the establishment of the Christian
church at Rome and death of St. Peter heresy
began to creep into the church; they adopted
the rites and ceremonies of the heathen nations
around them. Splendid robes, mitres, tiaras,
wax tapers, crosiers, images, gold and silver
vases and so on were adopted into the church
from the Romans, Greeks, and Pagans from
their idolatrous institutions.
	The laws of Rome in regard to matrimony
were monogomy, and before three centuries of
the Cristian era had passed away restrictions
were placed on matrimony. All were restricted
to one wife and their priests to none. And so
the church continued to digress until scarcely
a vestige of its former self existed.
	Thus, in this, the 19th century what do we
now behold? a mere skeleton; scarcely that, for
it is not a perfect structure of the Primitive
Church; only an unsightly and deformed wreck
disrobed and disrupted
	Stripped of all its primitive adornments
and graces—without a Prophet, without
Apostles, or any guidance to hold them in
unison; that oneness which the Savior ex-
horted His disciples to adhere to.—
[Column 2]
	The Apostles and Prophets of the old
testament foresaw all these sad events; and
they also forsaw the restoration; not only the
restoration of the Gospel but the restoration
of all things, in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. The epoch so notable in
scripture, the theme of ancient Prophets and
also of former day saints, who through the
spirit of inspiration and visions of the Al-
mighty penetrated thousands of years down
from the era in which they lived and spoke
and prophesied, in such glowing terms of the
fulness of times, the restitution of all things
spoken of by all the holy prophets since the
world began.
	It would make this article too lengthy to
enumerate all that has to be restored. Suffice
it to say, every thing connected with this
planet, man and beast including the face of
the earth, with all the changes which sin and
and the adversary of all righteousness have
wrought to mar and deface its beauty, have
(from the sayings of the prophets) all, to be
restored in the times of the restitution of all
things.
	The next thing to be considered is, what is
the first of all to be restored? In all ages of
the world, when the Lord designs to over-
throw a place or people He sent a prophet to
warn them. In the case of the flood, Sodom
and Gomorah, Ninevah and many others too
numerous to mention, He always warned them;
then what are we to expect at the great event
of the restitution of all things? when the whole
vast universe is to be changed cleansed from
sin pollution, regenerated and restored to
its primeval beauty and purity; of course the
Lord would send a prophet who could through
the inspiration of Almighty God look through
the vista of unborn ages and acquaint the in-
habitants of the earth with the events about
to occur in the near future, thus prepare the
world for the great revolution about to take
place, and warn them of the judgments pre-
pared by an angry God to be poured out upon
them.
	The next thing to be restored is the gospel
in all its fulness and purity, with all its primi-
tive gifts and blessings that adorned it, as es-
tablished by Jesus Christ in the flesh.
	Consequently every principle of truth from
the earliest period of creation to the present
time, must be restored and linked together to
make a perfect chain, when the times of the
restitution of all things takes place. Now,
who dare assert that the principle of patriar-
chal marriage was not a divine principle? in
flat contradiction of Jehovah.
	Therefore as it stands forth substantiated by
the words of God, it must of necessity (accord-
ing to the Prophets) be restored. It is a part
and portion of the Gospel of Christ, for every
truth revealed to man through the inspiration
of the spirit of God, belongs to the Gospel and
is a portion of the grand and glorious plan of
salvation for the redemption of the human
family. But with many other glorious princi-
ples of salvation, it was cast out by the church
of Rome and trampled in the mire of heathen
mythology. Therefore, it must, with every
other principle of truth, Jehovah has in any
age of the world vouchsafed to fallen man, be
restored at the restitution of all things.
	We read of those who have professed to be-
lieve in this principle of patriarchal marriage,
but where was ever the man found; when has
the man ever lived, since the apostacy of the
Romish church, who dares to raise his voice in
public and promulgate this man-condemned
doctrine? None! until a Prophet of God-
holding the Holy Priesthood—clothed with
Divine authority to restore the pure, unadul-
terated principles of the Gospel of Christ, in
all its fulness, was raised up and commanded
to proclaim it to the world.
	He had, through the inspiration of Heaven,
[Column 3]
a perfect assurance of its consequences, he
knew if he proclaimed that obnoxions princi-
ple publicly, death would be the inevitable re-
sult; and human nature was weak and he
shrank from the fearful ordeal, but sustained
by infinite strength, he calmly and patiently
submitted to the Divine injunction; laid down
his precious and valuable life in defence of the
sacred principle.
	How important—how infinitely important,
in the plan of redemption, must be that princi-
ple of the Gospel, to require so noble a sacri-
fice; and how very careful should we be about
breathing one derogatory word, or speaking
lightly of a principle that cost the best blood
of the nineteenth century. Still with what
enmity and unabating hostility is that sacred
principle followed up. Its advocates incarcer-
ated in prison, their wives and children de-
nounced as illegal and illegitimate, cast out by
the law into the cold pittiless world, without
protection from those bound by love and cove-
nant to guard and protect them, and also, de-
barred from redress by the laws of the land.
A land baptised in blood to purchase the free-
dom and liberty which guarantees to every
individual the right to worship Almighty God
according to the dictates of his or her con-
science.
	Nevertheless, although the adversary may
rage and the nation conspire against the truths
of the Gospel—even all the world—to abolish
this Latter-day work, established by Almighty
God for the redemption of a fallen world, to
restore it to its pristine glory and splendor;
their efforts will prove futile; for who, or what
is man, that he should measure arms with His
Creator. Therefore fear not, or be cast down,
ye Saints of the Most High, but rather rejoice
that ye are of that assembly who are willing to
stand firm in the vindication of the truth and
commandments of Heaven, though not admis-
sible by the laws of the land, to practice the
principles in which we believe, yet we know in
whom we trust, that He is able, and in His
own due time, will deliver His people.
Although like a green bay tree, the enemies
of truth flourish for a short time—make lies
their refuge, behind which they strive to con-
ceal their hideous hydra-head; ere long the
whirlwind will sweep away their refuge of lies
aud the waters will overflow their hiding
place. And when the sword of Heaven is un-
sheathed and wars and bloodshed deluge the
land; and famine and pestilence shall sweep off
the inhabitants thereof, until few men are left,
then will the righteous, those who have stood
valiant for the cause of truth, stand in holy
places and be not moved. Therefore ye who
have kept all the commandments of God lift
up your heads and rejoice. 
					   ELIZA D. GIBBS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the San Juan
Stake Relief Society was held at Bluff May 25,
1890. Pres. Jane M. Walton presiding.
	Singing "Lord we come before thee now."
Prayer by Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing "How
pleased and blessed was I."
	Pres. Jane M. Walton made the opening re-
marks, felt well to meet with the sisters, spoke
 of the different Wards she had visited since
last conference, and reported them as doing
well. Thought the sisters should be united,
in order to do the most good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of the Relief Society and
its members.
	Minutes of last Conference read and 
accepted.
	Pres. Kristen Neilson reported the Bluff
Society said it is in good running order, and


the sisters are trying to do all the good they
can. Pres. Abigail Stevens reported the Olio
Society, and invited the officers of the different
branches to attend a reception to be given at
Olio on the 12th of July in honor of the
organization of the society.
	Treasurer Jane Perkins reported the
Mancos Society. Bore a strong testimony to
the work of God. Counselor Annie Baily
reported the Monticello Society.
	The general and local officers were
presented and sustained.
	Stake Coun. Martha Hammond related her
visit to the Conference in Salt Lake City, also
the good instruction given there. Gave some
excellent advice, to all, but in particular to
mothers.
	Stake Coun. Josephine C. Wood made a
few pointed and exhortive remarks, spoke of
the responsibility of mothers in raising their
children. Sisters Mary Burnham, Eliza Redd,
and Harriet Ann Barton spoke in substance
as follows.—God has given women an im-
portant mission upon the earth. By trusting
in God and obeying his servants we will be
enabled to gain the good we have set out for.
All felt proud of being members of the Relief
Society.
	We have a large field to labor in. Sister
Agnes Allan and Mary B. Adams bore
testimony and exhorted the sisters to
obey counsel.
	Sister Elsie Nielsen felt to respond and to
keep up with the times.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond thought we had a
very enjoyable time, and had recieved the
best of counsel. Spoke at some length upon
the great mission of woman, and the importance
of the Relief Society.
	Stake Pres. Jane Walton made closing re-
marks. Gave the officers a special invitation
to attend the reception at Olio in July.
Adjourned the conference to meet at Monticello
in Aug.
	Singing “Oh how my spirit rests etc.”
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Holts.
		SARAH JANE ROGERSON Stake Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake held in Provo
City, May 30th 1890. Sister Mary John
presiding with her Counselor Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer
minutes of former conference read and approved.
Pres. John thought the sisters showed their
faithfulness by attending conference, our
minutes are good, have heard that Sister
Johnson is sick, hope the sisters will remember
her in their prayers etc.
	The different wards were represented by
those presiding over them. Those that at-
tended meetings regularly were full of
faith and zeal, striving to do all the good
that lay in their power, and were looking
forward for a brighter day for the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Caroline Daniels was honorably re-
leased from her labors as President of the
Relief Society of Timpanogas Ward, on account
of having moved from the ward.
	Br. Graves spoke on the silk industry,
hoped the sisters would not give up raising
cocoons. Considered he had a mission to pre-
form in trying to keep the silk-culture from
dying out, it was a mission given him by Pres.
Young and he felt like persevering although he
was 83 years old. He gave considerable advice
in regard to what was needed in the way of
machinery, to make it a success etc.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, felt that our time
was precious, was rejoiced to meet with us;
spoke of the work in the Temples and what a
great blessing and privilege it was that we
were permitted to go there and work for our

[Column 2]
dead. Let us live so that we will be ready to
meet our Saviour let us do right;do we keep the
word of wisdom,it is just as easy to ask the Lord
to give us strength to overcome the use of tea
and coffee as to ask him to bless it when it is
on the table: the day is coming when Satan
will strive to weaken our bodies as our faith,
let us keep faith enough to banish the
evil spirits. Let us have charity for
those that have gone astray, be humble and
prayerful, pray for our enemies. The earth
is the Lord’s and the fulness thereof.
	Afternoon session; convened at 2 p. m.
opened with singing and prayer. Sister M.
Daniels thought if we followed the example of
our Saviour we would be doing right; let us
be like little children humble in spirit and
action, spoke of the responsibilities resting
upon us in this day and age of the world.
We should cultivate charity and not disunion.
Let us not forget our prayers but so live that
we may meet in the Kingdom of our God.
	There was a great deal of good instruction
given on various subjects, and a great many
testimonies borne in regard to the truth of
this gospel and the healing of the sick through
the administration of the Elders and the prayer
of faith. The spirit of the Lord was with us
and we had a joyful time. Pres. John added
her testimony to those already borne, felt that
we had been blessed in this conference, spoke
a few words in regard to the silk industry etc.
Conference was adjourned for three months.
	Benediction by Sister Eggerston.
					Caroline Daniels, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿	THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.

	(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.) 
	A synonym for “knight” is "chevalier,”
and comes from the French "cheval" a horse,
because a chevalier rode on horseback; those
who tilled the ground were called villains,
and they walked—stubbed around on foot—
and were called "clod-hoppers" and all sorts of
things; and so the knights thought themselves
of great account because they could gallop off
to the wars on horseback. War was the aris-
tocratic profession and labor was something
very low down. But the good book predicts
the time when men shall "beat their swords
into plowshares and their spears into pruning
hooks." In these latter days the word
"knight" has been united with "labor," and
thus has been formed the right relationship.
The true knight, the true chevalier, the true
gentleman, is the one who works, and not the
one who goes off fighting and killing people
and devasting the world. We have come to
a better civilization, and something of worth
has been done for the country in giving it the
idea of the "knight" as part and parcel of the
"labor," bringing those two words, which have
been opposites, into one thought, and proving
that the laboring man can be a true gentle-
man, in all that goes to make up the beautiful
significance of that word.
	Many and urgent are the questions that the
workingmen and women of to-day must help
to decide. But whatever may be said of
methods in general, and of special methods, as
strikes, in particular, as a temperance woman,
I am confident that the best strike is to strike
against the saloon, and then to strike against
all politicians and parties that do wrong to the
workingmen. These are the two strikes that
will pay.
	The boycott of the saloons is the greatest
thing and the most helpful thing that has ever
come to the Knights of Labor, or a similar
organization. In one of the towns of Illinois a
banker put his private mark on the money he
paid out on Saturday night to the wage-workers
of the town who patronized his bank, and on
Monday night, of the $700 paid out and mark-

[column 2]
ed privately, over $300 had come back to him
from the saloons of that town! There is noth-
ing that cramps, belittles and dwarfs the possi-
bilities of the labor movement in America like
the saloons, and some guilds of workingmen
show that they know it by boycotting the
saloons and all liquor dealers, not allowing
them to be seated with reputable men whose
work brings back a good return.
	The labor question is a wonderful and
mighty issue; but wage-workers would do well
to study with it the temperance question, the
prohibition question. Do well to remember
that nine hundred million a year are expended
by our people in America across the counters
of the saloons and in the liquor trafic. Nine
hundred million dollars, to say nothing of the
money that is lost by those who would be at
work except for the temptation of the saloon!
	If the women of the nation had the ballot,
they and the good men of the nation would
hold the balance of power. We believe it
doesn't make any difference whether a woman
is a Protestant or Catholic, whether she is
black or white, cultured or ignorant, native or
foreign-born. We believe that, as a rule,
women, for the sake of protection for them-
selves, their children and their homes, stand
solidly against the dram-shop. We believe
that prohibition will come whenever woman
has the ballot. Out in Washington Territory
they gave women the ballot, and it was such
a terror to the saloonmen that they worked
away with the Supreme Court, and finally suc-
ceeded in making out that they had left out
a comma, or a semicolon, perhaps, or some
punctuation mark, or else some little word, in
the name of the bill, and so the Supreme Court
said that the bill was not legal. What hap-
pened? There were bonfires and rejoicings in
all the cities and towns and villages of Wash-
ington Territory. There were bells ringing,
not the bells in the steeples, by a large major-
ity, but the ding donging of all the old cow-
bells and sheep-bells they could get. There
was beer to be had on tap, placed there by
saloon-keepers, and a great jubilee from one
end of the Territory to another. Who got it
up? The saloons. Why did they get it up?
It was their celebration to think that the wo-
men had lost the battle. Tell us what the
liquor men are afraid of, and the temperance
people want it, and it is sure to be friendly
to the home.
	The workingmen are going to give us pro-
hibition by their votes; but, after they have
driven the nail of prohibition in a sure place,
they will need the hammer of woman's ballot
to rap it into place so that it would hold
strong and steady and durable.
	Another vital issue in the labor question is
that of the wages of women.
		Alas! that gold should be so dear,
		And flesh and blood so cheap.
	We read about women in Chicago who make
twelve shirts for 75 cents, and furnish their
own thread; about women who finish off an
elegant cloak for four cents; about children
who work twelve hours a day for $1 a week;
about some women who are glad to get the
chance that offers six cents for four hours'
work. Things like these our papers are full
of, and other things too bad to tell about.
	Now, many people say that they do not be-
lieve in paternal government. But we believe
in a paternal and maternal government,
and that if a few more women had something
to do with the affairs there would not be so
many white slaves in Chicago.
			(To be continued.)


Miss Eleanor L. Fleury, of the London
School of Medicine for Women, has a record
in three colleges of the highest honors that a
woman medical student can attain.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mme. Leon Bertaux, the sculptor, has peti-
tioned the French Government to open a
School of Fine Arts for Women.
	Baroness Gripenberg, of Finland, has
witten a book entitled “A half Year in the
New World.” It is said to be of great interest.
	Alexander Swift, of Cincinnati, who married
a sister of Alice and Phoebe Cary, owns the
old Cary homestead, and is anxious to make it
a memorial of the sister poets.
	Mrs. Tirard, the archaeologist, delivered a
course of lectures lately on “The Tombs and
Temples of Ancient Egypt,” at the British
Museum.
	Mrs. Khasma, a Jewess of Bagdad, manages
a factory which employs five hundred Jewish
women and girls. They make calico em-
broideries on covers, curtains, etc.
	The House of Lords has rejected the bill to
enable women to serve on County Councils.
To the American mind, this is a new proof
that the House of Lords ought to be abolished.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe passed her
seventy-eight birthday very quietly Saturday
June 14. She received a few calls from per-
sonal friends, and from her publishers, Messrs.
Houghton, Mifflin & Co., a box of cut flowers.
	“Mary Anderson was married in June to
Mr. Antonio Navarro at the little Catholic
Church in Hempstead, of which she was a
regular communicant while living in London.
Only a few personal friends witnessed the cere-
mony, and her half-sisters, Blanche and Juliet,
acted as bridesmaids. There will be some
social gain—a longer life, perhaps a happier
one, for Mary Anderson; but what a loss to
the stage! Her splendid genius, her exquisite
beauty, her high ideals, her absolute truth, her
wonderful voice—when and where will these
rare gifts be again found embodied in one
young girl! This wedding, and welcome to
Mrs. Navarro, is the death of Juliet and
Perdita, of Galatea and the Daughter of
Roland, and it shuts out forever the dream of
a future for Antigone and the classic drama.”
	The woman question has been brought be
fore the French Chamber of Deputies by M.
de Gaste, Deputy for Finisterre. M. de Gaste
is a hale old Breton of eighty-two years, who
has been an advocate of equal rights for more
than forty years, and has taken up many un-
popular causes. Most of them have succeeded
and he believes that the woman question will
be victorious in France, though not so soon as
in the United States and Great Britain. M.
de Gaste proposes a revision of the constitu-
tion as follows:
	'That the Senate be reduced from 300 to 200, and the
Chamber to 400; that the seats in both be equally given to
men and women over forty; that as in the United States,
no member of the Senate can fill any salaried public office;
that the President of the Republic be elected for five years
by delegates of all electors, and be replaced if he die, retire
or go mad within his term of office, by a Vice-President;
and that, finally, women be eligible for the Presidency or
Vice-Presidency."
									Ex.


THROWING THE GLOVE.
     To throw the glove as a signal of a chal-
lenge is referred to by Shakespeare, when
Troilus says to Cresida:
	For I will throw my glove to death himself
	That there's no maculation in thy heart.
The meaning being, says Johnson, "I will
challenge death himself in defence of my
fidelity."  The glove then thrown down was
popularly called "a gage," from the French,
signifying a pledge.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Martha Ann Jones Wride, who de-
parted this life April 14, 1890. Was born December 30,
1839, in the Parish of Egroshell and Glameganshire, South
Wales. She leaves a fond and devoted husband and four
children and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
Always cheerful and pleasant, her bright smile won friends
wherever her lot was cast. She was a faithful, consistent
Latter-day Saint, and was secretary of the Relief Society
for some time but resinged on account of ill health.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in his infinite wisdom
has taken from our midst our beloved sister Martha,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Second ward
Relief Society feel to tender our love and sympathy to the
memory of our departed sister.
	Resolved, That in this great bereavement we feel to ac-
knowledge the hand of God and bow in humble submission
to his will, but realize that in her we have lost a true friend
and faithful laborer.
	Resolved, That we hereby tender our love and sympathy
to the bereaved family of the deceased and express an
earnest desire that the Holy Spirit may impart comfort and
consolation in this sad hour of affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
family, the Utah Enquirer, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
kept in the record of the society.
		SARAH A. SCOTT,
		MATILDA LOVELESS,
		SARAH GOODMAN,
		ELIZABETH BROWN,
					Committee.
Tread lightly, do not wake her,
She has earned the sweet repose.
From the shadow of our night,
She has passed into the light.

Would we summon her again
To a world of woe and pain?
Ah, no, we’d have thee stay
Where life is joy alway.


A NOBLE WOMAN.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to write a few incidents in the life of my
beloved mother, Elizabeth C. Rawson, who passed away
from earth at 10:30 p. m. April 21st 1890, after an illness of
ten days, she had a light stroke of paralysis which deprived
her of her speech, but she kept her right mind to the last.
	She was the wife of the late Horace S. Rawson and was
born Oct. 18,1807, in Montgomery County, Tennessee.
She was married Oct. 9, 1825, settled in Randolph Co.
Indiana, and was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Levi W. Hancock in
1831; her husband joined a few months after. In 1832
they gathered with the Saints in Jackson Co. Missouri; they
were driven by a mob from their home five times, and finally
came to the valley and to Ogden in 1850, passing through
all the incidents of a pioneer life without a murmur. Owing
to her infirm age she came to Harrisville a short time ago
to live with her children. She was the mother of 13 child-
ren, 95 grandchilren, 155 great grandchildren in all 263,
she was aged 82 years, 6 months, 3 days. She was chosen
as a Teacher of the Relief Society where she labored faith-
fully for many years, she never resigned her office. She
bore a strong testimony to the work of God she knew for
herself that this was the true Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, she died as she had lived full of faith and
love for all with whom she became acquainted. The
funeral obsequies were held at the East Harrisville school-
house, Bishop P. G. Taylor presiding, consoling remarks
were made by Pres. C. F. Middleton, Bishop P. G. Taylor
and Patriarch Joseph Taylor who spoke of the many good
qualities of the deceased and family. A large assembly
viewed the remains and a long cortege accompanied them
to the Ogden City Cemetery where they were laid by the
side of her deceased husband, thus passes away an honest
and devout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother.
		"Dearest mother thou hast left us,
		 Here thy loss we deeply feel, 
		But the God that has bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal."

		"Yet again we hope to meet thee,"
		When death’s gloomy night has fled,


Then on earth with joy to greet thee
		Where no bitter tears are shed."

"Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like her's
	is done;
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."
							SARIAH OWENS.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
﻿EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoos.	
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
