VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1891.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS.
	The Empire of Women—N. Y. Sun. Isabella’s
Claim Upon the Women of To-day—Elizabeth
Porter Gould. The Pilgrims in Holland,—
Harpers Weekly. The Indian Question. Ex.
Miscellaneous. A Woman’s Opinion— More
Anon. Old Fashioned Party 22nd Ward,—
Adelaide Ridges, Sec. Notes and News. Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A.—C. C. Raleigh, Sec. R.S.
Reports—Snowflake— Wasatch— Davis. Hunt-
ington Primary Fair. Convention Notes.
	EDITORIAL: — Mormon Children. Emma
Abbott. Ladies’ General Meeting. Home
Thoughts.  News From Huntsville. A Gentle
Surprise.
	POETRY:—Only Wait—Mattie Dyer Britts
The New Message,—May Riley Smith. News
From Home,—E. T. Consolation,—M. F. Hayes.


ONLY WAIT!

When the spirit, worn and weary
	With life's daily load of care,
Finds the pathway long and dreary,
	And the burden hard to bear—
Tired of hoping, faint with fearing,
	Sighs to rest at heaven’s gate—
Then in tones sweet, soft, yet cheering,
	Patience whispers: "Only wait!"
		For a brighter day is dawning!
		Sunlight beameth with the morning—
		Gladness cometh with the morning—
			Only wait!

Oh, sad hearts, whose soundless sorrow
	Dares not let a murmur fall,
Only wait, and trust the morrow;
	God’s great heart beats over all.
Only wait, oh, wounded spirit,
	By life’s heavy cross weighed down;
Thou shall surely heaven inherit—
	Bear the cross, and win the crown,
		Win and bear it at the dawning,
		In the beauty of the morning—.
		In the glory of the morning—
			Only wait!

Wait and hope! If life distress us,
	Joys will be more sweet above,
Where the light of love shall bless us,
	Love is heaven, and heaven is love!
Courage, then ! His hand will guide us
	Gently to that “golden gate'’
Where no ill can e’er betide us,
	Blest forever—only wait.
		Even now the day is dawning;
		With the sunlight breaks the morning
		Lovely light of heaven's morning!
			Only wait! Only wait!
			—MATTIE DYER BRITTS, in Ledger.


THE NEW MESSAGE.

If ghosts of women dead a century
	Steal back to earth,
Then verily to-night one talked to me
	Upon my hearth.

And the pathetic minor of her tones,
	Liquid with tears,
Was like a plaintive murmur from far zones
	And distant years.

"Think not that I am come to you," she said,
	"This hallowed night
To gossip of the secrets of the dead
	Or tell their plight.

"I could not sleep; for lo! the Christmas-bells
	A new tune rang:
'New birth to women!' loud the pæan swells
	In rythmic clang.


"﻿'New birth to women!' once no right had she
	To choose her place:
Nor place had she save as man's courtesy
	Did grant her grace.

"Sometimes by beauty, trick, or accident,
	Grim fate she crossed;
But when from her obedience she unbent,
	Her power was lost.

"O woman! fitly robed at last, and crowned
	With dignity;
Walking with lifted head your chosen rounds,
	Unfettered, free;

"The barbarous traditions of the past
	Loosed from your feet;
Life's richest goblet held to you at last,
	Brimming and sweet;

"Forget not those for whom too late, alas!
	Dawn flushed the sky,
And to their spirits drain a silent glass;
	Of such am I.

"Hark to the Christmas bells! 'Good will toward men,
	Peace on the earth!'
'And unto womenl’—chime they forth again—
	'New birth! New birth!'"

If ghosts of women dead a century
	Steal back to earth,
Then this same hour one came and talked to me
	Beside my hearth.

		—MAY RILEY SMITH.


THE EMPIRE OF WOMEN.

	At the Sorosis luncheon on Monday after-
noon, Mrs. E. A. Allen contended with
much bitterness that "a woman's empire is
bounded by her youth," and that the bound
is set by the fickle fancy of man. As soon as
a woman's youthful beauty fades, said Mrs.
Allen, she loses her chance in business, her
popularity on the stage, and her place in social
life, simply because men are no longer inter-
ested in her.
	That was a very remarkable way of talking
to such a company as Mrs. Allen addressed.
Sorosis, as we understand it, is made up chiefly
of women who are engaged in various activi-
ties, have won unusual distinction in them,
and most of whom have passed beyond the
first flush of youth. Does any one of them
believe that she has reached the bound of her
empire and has lost her power to sway the
hearts of men? Does Mrs. Allen beleive it of
herself?
	The period of life at which women have
always exercised the most influence in society,
and over men more especially, comes after
their youth has gone by and their beauty has
developed with the development of their minds
and character. Such women are the rulers
of society and fashion in every civilized capital
of the world; and those who are younger must
be their mere followers, waiting until the ex-
perience and the attractions of greater matur-
ity shall enable them also to enter upon the
exercise of that authority.
	It is the same on the dramatic stage, and
also in the various professions into which
women have entered. Nearly all the actresses
of distinction at the present moment are women
who are no longer youthful, except in their
hearts, and the girls of the stage cannot hope
to compete with them except by study and by
the knowledge which comes from greater ex-
perience only. Even the most successful per-


formers of youthful parts are women who look
back on their own youth; and thereby they
show that age has not diminished their power
to influence the sentiment of men, but has
rather increased it.
	In the other professions women, like men,
must look on youth as a mere period of ap-
prenticeship. They must wait for the wisdom
and the skill which only experience can bring;
and if they have them to the same degree as
men with whom they compete, they will be as
successful. Youth will not long help them in
that contest, and age alone will not drive them
from it.
	Neither does youth have the advantage in
the matrimonial competition which Mrs. Allen
pretends to assume. Widows of mature years
may be the most dangerous rivals of young
maidens; and there is abundant proof in these
days that divorced women are not incapable
of despotic sway over the hearts of men even
after they have got well beyond the beauty of
mere youth.
	There is no bound to the empire of women,
except as they set it themselves.—N. Y. Sun,
Jan. 8, 1891.


ISABELLA'S CLAIM
UPON THE WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	Perhaps no Queen in the world's history
has to-day more claim upon woman in the
various phases of her existence than Queen
Isabella of Spain. In the first place, she ap-
peals to wives and mothers; for, through the
thirty-five years of her married life, in which
she had one son and four daughters, she fully
experienced the joys, cares, ambitions and
sorrows of a true wife and mother. In all
this, in an age when immorality abounded in
the land, which, according to Prescott, was
probably the only one in Christendom where
concubinage was ever sanctioned by law, not
a cloud shadows her virtue.
	In the second place, her relation to scholarly
women and to the intellectual development of
Spain during her thirty year's reign, allies her
to the educated or literary women of the day.
Her instructor in the Latin language was a
lady named Beatriz de Galindo, sometimes
called La Latina. Prescott says that it was
due in part to her own example of study as
well as by her personal attendance on the
academic examinations, that the women of
Spain, as in no other country of which he was
aware, took part in the public exercises of the
gymnasium and delivered lectures from the
chairs of the universities. Dona Lucia de
Medrano publicly lectured on the Latin clas-
sics in the universities of Salamanca; and
another, Dona Francisca de Lebrija, daughter
of the historian of that name, filled the chair
of rhetoric at Alcala. This university at
Alcala, famous from having executed the
"most stupendous literary enterprise of that
age," the Polyglot version of the Scriptures,
was founded and sustained by the Queen's
right hand man, Cardinal Ximenes.
	Besides endowing a convent in Toledo with
a library consisting principally of manuscripts,
Isabella encouraged the then new art of print-
ing by having some works of her subjects
printed at her own expense, and by granting
privileges to those engaged in the art. While
interested in the education of her own chil-
dren, she did not forget the young nobility.
Through her request and support, Peter


[Column 1]

﻿Martyr had a successful school for their in-
struction. Referring to his royal mistress as
the "pattern of every exalted virtue," he says
of his work, "My house all day long swarms
with noble youths reclaimed from ignoble
pursuits to those of letters."
	But Queen Isabella is allied also to the par-
ticularly progressive women of the day by her
independent spirit as a ruler; for, though lov-
ing her husband, the King, she insisted upon
having an equal share in all governmental
acts. The likeness of each was stamped on
the royal seal, the names of each found on all
public documents; in short, independent wills
working in harmony was the motto for action.
That Spain was better for this perfect inde-
pendence, no reader of the reign of Ferdinand
and Isabella can deny. The Queen also allied
herself to progress, when, as a pioneer aboli-
tionist, she commanded to be immediately set
free the Indians, Columbus had caused to be
slaves. Then her intense longing, even in
her dying hours, for their conversion to the
Christian religion, her efforts in sending mis-
sionaries in their behalf, bring her especially
near to-day to the women of the Woman's
Board of Foreign Missions. Her devotion to
her church—the only church of that age—al-
though it became the cause of her weakness in
yielding, even though after a long reluctance,
to the horrors of the Inquisition, links her to
the devotees and advocates of church worship.
	Isabella appeals also to the philanthropic
women of the day in her efforts for moral re-
form; her temperance in diet, seldom or never
tasting wine; her simplicity in dress—aside
from royal occasions; her expenditures of
money in the erection of hospitals and churches,
some of which she adorned with embroideries,
the work of her hands; and in her last testa-
ment, whereby she ordered a plain and unos-
tentatious funeral that money might be saved
for the poor.
	But this womanly Queen becomes of special
interest to the women of the past Sanitary
Commission, and of its child, the present Relief
Corps, because of being the first person on
record to form a regular camp hospital. Visit-
ing, as was her wont, the camps of her soldiers
to relieve their wants, she ordered one day a
number of large tents to be always ready for
the sick and wounded. These, called the
"Queen's Hospitals," were furnished with
medicines, and proper attendants at her own
expense. "Her presence at these camps," says
Peter Martyr, "seemed at once to gladden and
reanimate our spirits, drooping under long
vigils, dangers and fatigue." Another writer,
who was present, says, "from the moment of
her appearance a change seemed to come over
the scene....all seemed disposed to reconcilia-
tion and peace." "When," says Prescott "the
soldiers beheld her directing their counsels,
sharing their fatigues and dangers, and dis-
playing all the comprehensive intellectual
powers of the other sex, they looked up to her
as to some superior being, with feelings far
more exalted than those of mere loyalty. The
chivalrous heart of the Spaniard did homage
to her as to his tutelar saint, and she held a
control over her people such as no man could
have acquired in any age—and probably no
woman in an age and country less romantic."
	While Isabella thus appeals especially to the
women of America to-day, her sympathetic aid
to Columbus in the time of his greatest dis-
couragement which enabled him to discover
our world, and her loyalty to him to the end,
despite the distrust of her husband and royal
counselors, make her a shining figure of the
fifteenth century to be loved and honored by
every true American citizen.
	Our national writers have already sounded
a clear note in her behalf, for to Prescott's
praise and Copper's delightful pen-picture (in
Mercedes of Castile) one adds with pleasure

[Column 2]

Washington Irving's tribute that she was "one
of the purest and most beautiful characters in
all history."—Elizabeth Porter Gould, in
Queen, Isabella Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE PILGRIMS IN HOLLAND.

THE PROPOSED MONUMENT AT DELFTSHAVEN.

	At this season when the hearts of all New
Englanders instinctively turn to Plymouth
Rock, it is well for them to remember the
action of the Congregational Club, of Boston,
a few months ago. The club resolved that it
was high time the hospitality of the free re-
public of Holland to the Pilgrim Fathers was
acknowledged by their children, and that a
suitable memorial of the ancient amity between
Holland and the Pilgrims should be erected at
Delftshaven, or port of Delft, on the river
Maas, where the Speedwell lay.
	The Pilgrims came by canal from Leyden to
Delftshaven, and there John Robinson bade
them farewell, and gave them his benediction
in the faith that there was more truth yet to
break forth from God's Word. The govern-
ment of the Netherlands has expressed the
heartiest sympathy and desire of cooperation
in so good a work, and our Minister to Hol-
land, the Hon. Samuel R. Thayer, has looked
over the ground which belongs to the city of
Rotterdam, to which Delftshaven has been
annexed. The river, on which is a constant
passage of vessels, sweeps around the town in
such a manner that over the lowland the me-
morial could be seen in every direction far
away.
	A costly monument is not proposed. But a
few thousand of dollars would provide one in
every way suitable, and all money for the pur-
pose sent to Mr. Frank Wood, the treasurer,
352 Washington street, Boston, will be held
for the national association which will have
charge of the work. The Rev. Dr, Storrs
warmly commended the project in his noble
oration on the Puritan spirit, and its propriety
will need no argument to the mind of any son
of the Pilgrims. The Dutch and New Eng-
land societies have long exchanged compliments
in recognition of this old friendship. That
old Dutch hospitality is one of the most beau-
tiful incidents in history, and if the feeling
which prompts the compliment should erect
the memorial, it would be a most happy
sequel.—Harper's Weekly.


THE INDIAN QUESTION.

	The present excitement and alarm offer
the proper occasion to repeat emphatically
what is undoubtedly the truth, that the radical
trouble is the bad faith of the white man.
Long ago General Grant, discussing the Indian
question, said that we had taught them to dis-
trust us. He said that after leaving West
Point, when he was stationed upon the frontier,
he had observed that the American white man
cheated the Indian. He added that the Eng-
lish Canadians were wiser, for they kept faith,
and he illustrated his remark by saying that if
they promised the Indian a certain kind of
blanket, the Indian was sure to get it. But
the Indian was not sure that our engagements
would be as honestly kept. When promises
have been faithfully kept there has been little
serious trouble, and the actual progress made
by Indians toward civilization under the most
exasperating circumstances shows how much
might have been expected from a more hu-
mane and honest course. Bishop Hare's recent
statement, and he is one of the best witnesses
and counselors in Indian difficulties, contains
two important suggestions; one is that there
are certain Indian ringleaders who ought to be
imprisoned and kept from mischief, and the


other is that indiscriminate punishment of
Indians should not be allowed. The mis-
sionary work among them seems to have pro-
duced excellent results, and if it does no more,
it shows the good results of good faith. The
President is understood recently to have ex-
pressed himself as favoring a transfer of the
Indian Bureau to the War Department. This
is a very serious question. Certainly the care
of the Indians by the Interior Department
leaves very much to be desired. But the indis-
pensable conditions of a wise Indian policy
are: First, a single head of the Indian Depart-
ment, who shall be a man of high character
and capacity; then the complete separation of
the care of the Indians from politics, and the
education of Indian youth. There is no more
signal illustration of the mischiefs of the spoils
system than that afforded by the ever-recurring
Indian troubles. The distinction of our Indian
policy is want of principle and common
sense.—Harper's Weekly.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The greatest of faults, I should say, is to be
conscious of none.—Carlyle.
	Peace is the evening star of the soul
as virtue is its sun, and the two are never far
apart.
	Give what you have.  To some one it may
be better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.
	It is a good rule to be deaf when a slanderer
begins to talk.
	The real man is one who always find ex-
cuses for others, but never excuses himself.—
H.W. Beecher
	It is employment, says Daniel Webster, that
 makes people happy; and, says Jean Paul, I
have fire-proof, perennial enjoyments called
employments.
	Great is the power of eloquence; but never
is it so great as when it pleads along with
nature; and the culprit is a child strayed from
his duty and returned to it again with tears.—
Sterne.
	A good book and a good woman are ex-
cellent things for those who know how to ap-
preciate their value. There are men, however
who judge of both by the beauty of their covering.
	Faith at most but makes a hero, but love
 makes a saint; faith can but put us above the
world, but love brings us under God's throne;
faith can but make us sober, but love makes
 us happy.—Cardinal Newman.
	As I like to see a young man who has some-
thing old about him, so I like to see an old
man in whom there remains something of the
youth. He who follows this maxim may be-
come an old man in body, but never in heart.
Cicero.
	The road to eminence and power from
obscure condition ought not to be made too
easy, nor a thing too much of course. If rare
merit be the rarest of all rare things it ought
to pass through some sort of probation. The
temple of honor ought to be seated on an
eminence. If it be open through virtue let it
be remembered, too, that virtue is never tried
but by some difficulty and some struggle.—
Burke.


Mrs. Whitelaw Reid, wife of the American
minister at Paris, who is, with her husband,
making a tour of the East was honored by
the Sultan at Constantinople conferring upon
her the order of the Shefkat, the highest
Turkish decoration that can be given to a
woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEWS FROM HOME.

"Anna's babe is dead!" is the first sad news to hear;
Though to us he is a stranger, yet we cannot stay the tear.
For 'tis just one short week ago they laid in her narrow
	bed
Another of their darlings, and now their babe is dead,
And we feel for the father's anguish, and the mother's
	heart-broken woe—
As we kiss our babe's upturned face, and think if she
	should go
Across the "Valley of Death," though to her a blessed rest,
How hard 'twould be for us to feel that God knows what
	is best.

"Janet has a lover and they say he's good and clever."
Shy, quiet Janet, I did not think that ever
Her heart could be won, but I trust 'twill bring her bliss
And that he may prove worthy of a maid as pure as this.

"Josie has married and gone to a distant land,"
Woo'd and won by a stranger affable and bland,
Has left a sorrowing mother and friends protecting care;
H'en her faith she's laid aside for a stranger's love and
	care.
Can he be trusted? is he noble, good and true?
Or will after life bring sorrow with unavailing tears?
Ah me! I think that this is the very saddest news;
For with our hope and good wishes we still have many
	fears.

"Mother says she wishes that you folks far away
Would come in and see her and have a holiday."
Dear, darling Mother, who has passed three score and
	ten,
Still loves her children,—mature,gray-bearded men—
And women that are mothers and past all youthful bloom.

So it is the whole world over,
To the absent well loved rover.
Be there sadness, be there sorrow,
Be there grave doubts of the morrow;
In the thought of future meeting—
And the thought of kindly greeting,
Oh 'tis joy thus to receive,
Tho' the message oft time grieve,
The latest, news from friends at home.

		E. T.


CONSOLATION.

What art thou, Death, that men doth fear thee so?
Why dread they with such shrinking thine approach?
Art thou some goblin grim, some monster fearful
That prison souls of men in dungeons foul,
In order that thou mayest, like fiend incarnate,
Torture them, and mock with glee demoniacal?

Or, rather, art thou not a messenger from God,
Who'rt sent to call us from this vale of tears—
Tell us our work is done, our life is finished;
That we've fulfilled our measure of creation
And shown to Him, how we have used the agency
Which He did give us, with our life and station?

Who then have need to fear thee? Not the young—
The babe, the little child that knows no sin,
To it, 'tis but a going to sleep, to wake to-morrow
Upon a brighter shore, in angels' arms
Where it shall ne'er know sorrow, pain or grief,
Safe sheltered from earth's cold and bitter storms.

Why weep we then with such a bitter mourning
When Death our pure babe hath called away?
And ask, "Oh, why was it e'er given to us
Only to stay awhile, till it had won
It's way into our warmest, tenderest love;
And then to die, and leave us here to mourn?

Oh, know ye not, ye weak, short-sighted mortals
That thy sweet babe, which thou would'st fain keep here,
Was once a spirit, which till now has waited
Anxiously to take a body here on earth,
That it might then return and fill the mission
It only could attain to though a birth?

It knew no sin, but went back to its Maker
Pure and holy, and free from guile and stain.
And 'tis become a link between our hearts and Heaven,
To draw our minds from petty earthly cares
And centre them above, in Heaven's realms—
For where our treasure is, so will our hearts be there.


Again, Death, who need fear thee? Not the young,
The youth or tender maid who've 'bedient been
To counsel given, and who have thus lived lives
Of truth, and honor, and purity so bright,
That, though life is sweet, its joys entrancing.
They need not fear, the world beyond is light.

Those in their prime, and, too, in middle age,
Who in their lives have trials and troubles seen,
Who've stemmed temptation's tide and struggled onward,
Why need they fear, if they be called by thee?
But calmly go, to take their rest in Heaven,
And all their dear ones gone before to see.

And then the old, whose tired feet have trod
The long and weary journey to old age,
Who've lived according to the light they had,
Whose hearts are true and consciences are clear;
How willingly they lay the burden down
To dwell with Christ in a far happier sphere!

Who, then, need fear thee? Those they are
Who've yielded to the tempter's wily snares,
Who're steeped so far in wickedness and sin
That they do fear to die, lest they receive
Just punishment as dues for sins committed,
For God, they know, they never can deceive.

		MARY FENTON HAYES.
	Salt Lake City.


A WOMAN'S OPINION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There has been a great deal said of late
about Woman's Rights. We believe in her
having all the rights she is entitled to, and
a great deal more than what she gets, and we
also wish to say, that as women of Utah have
to be subject to the laws as well as others, and
are liable to punishment for breaking them,
they at least ought to have the privilege of
helping to make them; while at the same time
we believe that a woman's highest calling is in
her home, yet it is by no means the only one
that education has fitted her for.
	There are political and religious rights and
liberties that need to be spoken about and
kept in mind, and also Woman Suffrage work
to be looked after by those who have the
ability for such work. We also believe it is a
woman's right to have a husband and home
of her own, and a right to have children to
grace that home with, for the love of her off-
spring is one of the strongest instincts im-
planted in women, there is nothing that can
compensate her for the want of them. They
are necessary to her and her husband's happi-
ness. Well, as mothers in Israel we know
they are the Lord's heritage, and "Happy is
the man that hath his quiver full of them."
Psalms 127.5.
	And women in the darkest hour of adver-
sity, every true wife and mother is expected
to be at home and have her family around
her. Oh woman! what would the world be
without her. But how is it with some of the
lords of creation, they think that a woman
should have no individuality of her own: some
of them are very fond of trying to reduce
their wives to a state of unquestionable obedi-
ence, in fact treating them as if they were
creatures possessed of no brains hopes, or ideas of
their own. Woman's privileges indeed should
be talked about before such men? "Oh, no,
 she  must stay at home and attend to her
family duties, and if she finds it very hard
she must not grumble, but seek the patience
of Job, and the courage of Daniel, to enable
her to bear all things in an humble and sub-
missive way." What a good thing it is such
men are few and far between in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel
very thankful that I live in an age when some
of the noblest of mankind live on the earth;
who are willing to accord to woman-kind her
proper sphere. A man's heart ought to be
large enough to grasp and hold many wives


and children within its vast capacities, if it
pleases God to give them to him. Some men
are so narrow-minded that they can't love but
one woman at once, but it should not be so.
How beautiful it must be when large families
can come together in the harmony of beautiful
love, though now denied that precious blessing,
such can say and truly too, let us live our short
lives that eternity may only prove a prolon-
gation of unstinted affection—happy indeed are
such. Oh, that there were more of them!
When we step out of this existence those who
have obeyed the celestial law will not be cur-
tailed in their privileges or rights, but a higher
power than man's will govern and control all
things and we shall be satisfied.
		   MORE ANON.


OLD FASHIONED PARTY—22ND WARD

	On Tue. Dec. 30th, 1890, according to the
wish of Bishop Solomon, the sisters of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward got up a
feast for the poor, and all of the ward who
wished to participate with them in the new
Meeting House. The young ladies had
decorated the Hall and it presented a beauti-
ful appearance; the teachers had visited their
respective blocks and notified the people if
they wished to contribute to send in their
picnic in the morning. The people responded
liberally and the tables were filled with good
things. At about two o'clock they sat down
to dinner when the Bishop asked a blessing,
and with happy countenances and smiling
faces they partook of the bounties of the earth.
At five o'clock there was an intermission of
two hours and the hall was cleared ready for
dancing, which commenced about seven o'clock.
	There was a large assembly of old and
young to join in the dance. It reminded me
of old times when the prophets and apostles
used to join in the dance. It reminded me
of old times when the prophets and apostles
used to join with us in the dance. It continued
until twelve o'clock when it closed with
prayer, and they all went home feeling thank-
ful for the many blessings they enjoyed in
these the valleys of the mountains.
		ADELAIDE RIDGES, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The recently-formed Georgia Woman Suff-
rage Association has become auxiliary to the
National American.

	REV. ANNA H. SHAW, Mrs. Clara B.
Colby and Miss Lucy E. Anthony "received"
at the Riggs House in Washington on New
Year's Day, in the absence of Miss Susan B.
Anthony. Miss Shaw will give a fortnight to
work in Canada, beginning to-morrow in
Toronto.
	MRS. CHARITY HATHAWAY,of Beemer Hill
Sullivan Co. Pa.,is said to be the only woman in
the country who is by profession a trapper and
dealer in raw furs. Last season she cleared
nearly $450 from the sale of furs and ginseng
root. Most of the furs were obtained by her-
self.
	General Spinner, who secured the admission
of women as clerks in the U. S. Treasury, was
a strong believer in equal rights for women in
every respect. He said of himself with pride:
"In the first Congress of which I was a member,
I voted for Lucretia Mott for Chaplain to the
House of Representatives. In the next Con-
gress, my vote was cast for Lucy Stone. In
the next Congress, I voted for a man for chap-
lain; so I stand recorded twice for women, to
only once for a man. That is about the way
I feel now. My sympathies have always been
on the side of the weak. So I have always
been in favor of, as the Englishman expresses
it 'the under dog.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m.	every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARX 15, 1891.


MORMON CHILDREN.

	WASHINGTON, Jan. 19.—Justice Brown to day
rendered his first opinion as a member of the
United States supreme court. He delivered two
opinions, of which the more important was in the
case of George N. Cope vs. Janet Cope and
Thomas H. Cope, brought here on appeal from
the supreme court of the Territory of Utah. The
question involved was whether or not a son by a
polygamous marriage had a right of inheritance
from his father, it having been claimed he was
illegitimate. The court holds that a son by a
polygamous marriage did have such right and
reversed the judgment of the territorial court.
The court says: "The Edmunds-Tucker act de-
clared legitimate all children of Mormon parents
born within less than twelve months from its
passage. The object," the court says, "was to
make these unfortunate children an especial object
of care, and to make their parents relinquish
polygamy by fixing a period after which their
children should be illegitimate."


[Column 1]

EMMA ABBOTT.

	The lovely and gifted songstress, Emma Abbott
whose voice has thrilled multitudes in the various
cities and towns of the world, and cheered many
a lonely heart and weary pilgrim, and who at-
tained a musical reputation only reached by a few,
has passed away from earth to join "the choir
invisible whose music is the gladness of the
world."
	A feeling of ineffable sadness came over the
writer, as she heard the words, "Emma Abbott
is dead," it was as though one near and dear had
gone, for has she not made herself near and dear
to all lovers of true music who have ever heard
her sweet rich voice with its rare melody holding
spell-bound many thousands at once.
	The prima donna died at the Templeton in this
city at twenty minutes to eight o'clock January 5,
1891. The Doctors who attended her stated that
"the immediate cause was heart failure brought
on by an attack of acute pneumonia." She was
conscious all the time during her illness, realized
that death was fast approaching and remarked
that she was not afraid to die. Her body was em-
balmed and shipped to Chicago where her mother
and relatives are residing the same evening. Her
wish was to be cremated and sometime ago "she
had an elaborate urn made," in which her ashes
were to be deposited. Her mother's wishes
however will control the matter. Her husband
is buried at Gloucester, Massachusetts.
	Dr. Condon of Ogden paid a beautiful tribute
to her memory in his article published in the
Standard from which we have taken the follow-
ing paragraphs:
	"It is said that the dying swan, when the last

[Column 2]

moments of dissolution arrive, pours out its soul
(for birds have souls) in a flood of melancholy
song so low and soft and full of tenderness that it
seems to be made of tears, and it seemed to us
who had often heard her sing before that Miss
Abbott, the pure and gifted Queen of Song, on
the opening night of the Grand Opera House,
sang as if it were to be the crowning effort of her
life, or rather as if coming events were casting
their shadows before; that she fully realized that
the curtain was about to be rung down on her
life and she should face alone the dread, and
mystery, and eternal silence that comes to all. Of
course no one thought then, but looking back it
seems to me as if I never heard her sing with
such sweetness and power as on that occasion
and hereafter the playhouse that she dedicated as
the last act of her life, will have an interest that
the future can add little to nor detract anything
from.
	"But the sweet voice that so often made the world
forget its cares will never again be heard, and the
applause of charmed multitudes will fall on dull
ears as the winter snows fall on the grave where
she sleeps unheeded. Her life was as pure as a
sunbeam, and will crown like an aureole the spot
where her form sinks into pulseless clay. Alas
that the strings of such a harp should be broken
asunder, that such divine fires of genius should
be extinguished. To many breaking hearts the
music of her voice and sweet ways brought heal-
ing; to how many storm-tossed souls made mad
by the wild tempest of unrestrained passion, her
rendition of "The Last Rose of Summer,"
charmed into repentance and forgetfulness, this
world will never know. Her songs were music
and music is divine. It can sooth the savage
breast that sometimes leaps from the hearts of
men; it subdued the fiends in tophet while
Euradice escaped; the spheres salute one another
in their journeys through the upper sky, with
music and the angels in the climax of their ecstacy
and in their sorrowing for the follies of weak
humanity, are singing ever and always. And so
it was with Emma Abbott, she sang to the good
and the bad, to the rich and poor alike, sang as
if the gift of song were not her own, as if she
were but its custodian and mnst one day render
an account of how she used it.

	"In the modest little town of Peoria, Ill., where
she first saw the light, there will be real grief, and
it will reach out till it covers this continent.
There will be no need of consanquinity to give it
point. She reached the understanding with the
wonderful gift of song and manner; she played
on the chorus of the human heart and all who felt
the power of her gentle touch loved her, honored
her, and paid her homage. She sang in prison
cells where turbulent hearts were beating against
the bars of passion that are stronger than the
girders that shut them in from the world and
appealed to the angel of their better nature. She
carried sunshine into the hospitals of pain. She
responded to the pitying voice of charity and
without compensation, other than that which the
consciousness of a deed well done always brings.
She charmed thousands; for to hear her sing even
the miser would unlock his iron box."

	Miss Abbott possessed great strength of char-
acter, as well as being wonderfully gifted; and
she won the hearts of all the profession at "one
fell stroke," when she arose in the Church at
Nashville, Tenn., and contradicted the preacher
who was violently denouncing the stage and all its
disciples as depraved and immoral, etc. It must
have taken a great deal of moral courage to take
such a stand, but she was equal to the effort, and
it gave her prestige, although she acted on the
impulse of the moment without waiting to con-
sider the consequences. It was however a heroic
step to take in defense of the stage.

[Column 3]

FUNERAL SERVICES AT THE TEMPLETON.
	"It was decided early in the day to have brief
funeral services at 5 o'clock. At this hour the
members of the company, sixty in number, as-
sembled in the little suite of rooms looking out on
the west, on the fourth floor, and all were allowed
a glance at the departed. She looked almost as
if in sleep, so little had her illness changed her.
She was clothed in a manner strikingly beautiful.
She wore the white dress seen in the first act of
"Ernani," Wednesday night Dec. 31 1890—her
farewell appearance. It was white moire, paneled
with violet and green velvet, and embroidered
with purple lilacs in great natural bunches, white
lilacs on the violet and violet lilacs on the white,
gathered around the waist with white pearls. A
white embroidered veil strewn with roses, covered
her arms and neck. One hand held a pink rose,
the other a bunch of white roses, while on the
breast was a beautiful bunch of lilies of the val-
ley.
	"It was some moments before the emotions of
the little congregation could be restrained. Then
the male chorus, led by Broderick and Pruette,
sang, "Lord, in Mercy Hear my Prayer." The
effect was most touching—almost weird, and
Pruette and some others of the singers were un-
able to conclude. When the last notes were
heard, a great pent-up sob was loosed from the
throats of all present, and for a few moments sor-
row flowed without any attempt to restrain it.
The Rev. Mr. McNiece then arose and read a
chapter from the Bible after which the whole
chorus sang ,'Nearer My God to Thee." There
were next a few very appropriate remarks from
Mr. McNiece, with a short prayer, and the male
voices rendered with exquisite effect, the familiar
"Soldier's Farewell," beginning "How can I bear
to leave thee." After a brief pause, the whole
assembly sang, "Home Sweet Home," and the
exercises, which, impromptu as they were, were
of the most touching and impressive description,
drew to a close. There was hardly a dry eye
among the guests of the hotel—who had quietly
assembled in the hall, as the sounds of "Home
Sweet Home" rolled forth and the thought of
Emma Abbott's desolate home in the east came
to their minds.
	"There were some beautiful floral offerings: A
heart of dark red roses—Abbott's favorite color
—from the company; a cross of yellow roses
from Mr. and Mrs. Pratt; an anchor of white
flowers and calla lilies from the hotel—a beauti-
ful lyre from the theatre, and a large and most
exquisite design showing an arch, open gates and
a crown of flowers, with the words worked in
purple flowers, "Farewell Abbott." This came
from the Salt Lake Choral society, and was re-
garded as a particularly graceful act.
	At a quarter to nine the funeral cortege left the
hotel, the coffin, enclosed in a metallic casket,
and carried by Messrs. Michelena, Broderick
Consadine, Larrange, McCormack and Pruette,
was borne to the hearse. A procession composed
of fourteen carriages conveyed the company to
the Rio Grand depot, and at 10 o'clock the last
sorrowful farewell of Salt Lake was taken and
the train steamed off for Denver and Chicago.

FROM FUNERAL ADDRESS BY REV. DR. THOMAS,
OF CHICAGO.
	"Against her social reputation there was never
a breath of suspicion, and the unquestioned purity
of her life did not a little to lessen the prejudices
and to rebuke the harsh, unjust criticisms of the
clergy and the church. She compelled the re-
spect of all; she was admired and loved by those
who knew her personal worth. She helped ele-
vate the character, and inspired with a noble zeal
and purpose the drama of her time. Thousands
of young and aspiring artists have felt the inspira-
tion of this noble life, and will themselves b


greater and better because she added to great-
ness the crown of goodness.
	Upon few, if any, of the social questions of our
day has the change of the better class of public
opinion been greater of late years than in the
kindlier and more appreciative attitude of the
church toward the stage. This is owing, in part,
to the gradual wearing away of the sharp lines
once drawn between the church and the world.
The larger intelligence of the present is beginning
to see that the quality of goodness is the same
wherever found, and that the drama has its place
and value; that between the hours of work and
worship there are hours when the mind and heart
may find rest and improvement in the diversions
and lessons of the opera and the play. And then
the character of the singers and players has
shared in the common growth of morals in all de-
partments of life, so that more thoughtful minds
now no longer ask, How shall we get rid of the
drama; but how shall its evils be lessened and
its greatest power for good be realized?
	Not pausing long, perhaps, if at all, to theorize,
Emma Abbott quietly entered this field of labor,
and it may be without any aim at first of making
it better, but simply with the noble resolve to be
herself good. And in that way she came to know
and to value the good in others, and by the simple
power of her own life and personality she has
helped make the position of the conscientious
artist one of the most honorable, and of that
honor she was herself justly proud and tenderly
sensitive. She did not play on the Sabbath, but
used that day for rest and worship. In a
Southern city, where she attended service one
Sabbath morning, and heard the minister de-
nounce the stage in almost unmeasured terms,
she asked the privilege of replying after the
audience was dismissed and she was heard in its
vindication. She was herself a Christian, and
lived a life of faith and prayer.
	The death of this noble woman leaves our
world poorer in that in which it needs be richer.
The power of music to charm and bless has not
yet been realized; the mission of song has only
begun; the time will come when the true dramatic
artists will take their places as among the recog-
nized backers and helpers in all that is good.
The great chorus of humanity is yet to be heard
in the glad day when all the people shall sing.
	It is deeply to be regretted that this child of
song, this pure spirit of earth, has gone away so
soon. Had she obeyed the word of her physician
it might have been different; but only those who
serve the public know how hard it is to disappoint
that public; and how many sing and speak when
they should rest and sleep. It was her energy
that made her what she was, that nerved her to
her last effort. Such voice culture and power
come only at the end of hard years of study.
Emma Abbott was yet in the rich summer-time
of life, and there should have been many years
before the autumn and the winter.
	It is strange and pathetic to think how all the
treasures of learniug, of scholarship, of poetry
and art, are held in these frail earthen vessels;
in brains and hearts that tire, that wear out or
break down by the way. Oh, it must be that this
is the beginning, not the end; that the spirits of
earth go away to live and love, to think and love
to think and sing in some other land that is better.
This was the blessed faith and hope that lived in
this heart that beats no more. "I shall sing my next
song in heaven." "I am not afraid to die." And I
think that her hold on life was weakened by the
great sorrow through which she had passed, and
that it was easier to go away because her husband
had gone before, and the gates were left open
and sweet voices were calling her to come."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LADIES' GENERAL MEETING.

General meeting held in the 14th Ward Assem

[Column 2]

bly Rooms Sat, Jan. 3, 1891. Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding. Meeting opened with singing, "Come
let us anew," and prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Stevenson, singing, "Now let us, rejoice etc."
Minutes of P. A. of 17th and 8th Wards were
read by their secretaries.
	The President wished the congregation "A
happy new year," with peace and prosperity;
said those who have come to meeting to-day will
receive a blessing. Was much pleased to hear
our young secretaries read their minutes so very
correctly, the minutes were quite instructive.
We have just passed a very eventful year, many
important changes have taken place, one that is
greatly to be lamented is the awful state of
morality in this city, brought about through the
change of parties: To think it unsafe to walk
our streets is a strange thing for us who have been
so accustomed to good order in our city; but we
see by the steps the "Liberals" re taking for re-
form in this matter that they are aware of the con-
ditions; and the hand of the Lord is ruling and
over-ruling for the good of His people; all the
events transpiring will tend to prepare this people
for the coming of the Son of Man. See how
things are transpiring among the Indians, they
did not harm the government in any way, but the
spirit of the Lord is working among them and
perhaps some of their blood had to be shed;
you my sisters, have read of the visions they have
had, it reminds one of the shedding of the blood
of Joseph and Hyrum; their blood also had to be
shed to seal their testimony. Let us have the
shield of the Almighty around us, that we may
be prepared for the changes that are coming.
Our financial affairs are in a very uncertain con-
dition; many are fearful of a great crisis in busi-
ness. Another important step that was taken in
1890 was the establishing of a Woman's Store on
a co-operative principle; we expect it to be a
success, but it will need our energies and talents,
our means and our faith united; let all our sisters
take an interest in the store by going and making
our purchases there, and talking it up in our
meetings, and with one another.
	Let us be humble and true to our covenants,
that we may be able to call on the Lord to cause
the power of the destroyer to depart from our
homes and families, that sickness may cease
among the people of God.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, let us try and improve
on the past year and do better than we have done;
she testified to the power of administering to the
sick, that she had seen the sick healed in many
instances. Spoke upon prayer and tithing,
advised the mothers to impress upon their child-
ren to pay the Lord one tenth of the little
presents they get in money, they will never forget
it, and the Lord will bless them. Mothers teach
your sons and daughters chastity; it is lament-
able to hear of young people going astray, these
things should not be in our midst; let us implant
in the minds of our children pure, virtuous prin-
ciples. Referred to the meeting held in the
Methodist Church and applauded the course
taken there by Brother Nicholson.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said by watching the signs
of the times we can see the fulfillment of both
ancient and modern prophecies; we are living in
an eventful time, and we should instruct our
children in the truths of the Gospel that they may
not be led into temptation, but shun all appear-
ances of evil, be modest and careful in their de-
portment in all places. Teach our children faith
in the Lord. that they may have power with them
in sickness or in calling down any blessing they
may require from the Lord.
	Mrs. Mary Clark said,we must watch as well as
pray that we may always have the testimony of
the Gospel in our hearts; rear our children in the
spirit of prayer that they may claim the blessings
of heaven. Watch ourselves that we may be

[Column 3]

ready to meet the Savior and enjoy the blessings
in store for those who serve the Lord. Let us
have charity, not look at each other's weaknesses,
nor say anything to hurt anyone but guard each
other's characters. Spoke eloquently of Temple
work and advised the sisters to go there if they
felt weak and get their strength renewed.
	Mrs. E. Stevenson also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, "I wish to live to do
good, I am glad I have laid a foundation of work-
ing in the Temple for my ancestors; if I can't do
all I leave those behind that will carry on the
work. To one is given one gift, to another,
another gift, let us build each other up and culti-
vate chastity in our own lives, that our children
may be imbued with the purity that we as a peo-
ple should be filled with.
	Pres. Horne said,we have had good instruction,
let us be wise, judicious and prudent, that we
may enjoy our religion. It is our duty to teach
correct principles, and it is our duty to pay at-
tention to this teaching, and let us have a will to
do right.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks, singing "All
hail the new-born year," and benediction by Mrs.
E. Howard.
		E. H., Sec'y, pro tem.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	HOME THOUGHTS.

	To make home a delightsome and an attractive
place, does not depend upon a large, fine house
with plenty of costly furniture, and expensive
surroundings, although these are very pleasing
and attractive to the eye; but the true secrets and
attributes of a happy home are not purchased
with gold or silver, but are placed there by the
hearts and the united efforts of the inmates of
that dwelling. What are riches compared with the
love of sincere and honest hearts? It does not
matter if the floor is bare, the rooms limited and the
furniture unpainted, the home may be far more
pleasant and enjoyable than the finest mansion
that is without the peace and quietude of loving
hearts. In a home where the Spirit of the Lord
is an inmate, the husband and wife are each
striving for the welfare of the other, and unitedly
striving for the welfare of their children. If they
wish their children to be polite they are not
afraid to say "If you please" or "Thank you" to
each other, or to the children, for a kindness
shown them. Teaching by example as well as
precept, and showing them that they do not re-
quire more of them than they do themselves.
The character of our young people are, to some
extent, molded at home; then should we not be
watchful and prayerful in regard to the influence of
that home? Ever striving  to retain a feeling of
love and happiness that will cause a desire to re-
main there and not go out into other company
to find enjoyment. If one of our daughters—the
same may also be applied to one of our sons—is a
little thoughtless or reckless,and does not keep
company with the young man of our choice, is it
our duty to take away her agency by saying, "You
shall not keep company with that young man?"
I think not. But it is our duty to teach, instruct,
advise and pray for her, and do everything within
our power to persuade her to shun evil company
and seek for good, that thereby she may be
saved in the Kingdom of God. And then, if she
still persists, is it not better to allow her to invite
her company home to spend the evening, rather
than compel her to go some other place, we know
not where, to meet him, as is too often the case.
Great wisdom and knowledge is required in teach-
ing and instructing our children, and we should
look to Him who says,"He that lacketh wisdom
let him ask of God who giveth to all men
liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be
given him," that we may raise them in that wa[-]


and manner that will lead them unto eternal lives.
For many are the snares that are set for our
young people, and many should be the prayers
that they may be able to resist them.
		M. E. H.
	Nov. 24th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM HUNTSVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As the New Year has come we thought it wise
to report ourselves through your paper. We find
that we are living in the tops of the mountains;
secluded from the civilization as you have it in
Salt Lake City. We are right in the beautiful
snowclad hills, where health and bloom adorn
the faces of old and young, which blessing we
are thankful for.
	Last year at this time death was stealing its
victims from among us causing much sorrow but
God in His mercy stayed His hand, and we are
again having jovial times. The holidays have been
well spent; parties pretty well conducted under
the auspices of the Young Men's Improvement
Association which is a good and successful
organization. Our Relief Society is in good
working order; the poor are well cared for.
Young Ladies' Association, doing excellent work
in the way of improvement; the Primary also is
progressing fine. When we look upon our
lovely children, we wish some of our outside
friends could see them, they neither look hungry
or ill-clad; if they would look after their own poor
it would be a blessing for many of them. Our
Society is gathering all the wheat they can, and
taking good care of it, according to President
Young's Counsel.
	Wishing your subscribers for the EXPONENT
and all co-laborers a Happy New Year, we are
your sisters in the faith of the Gospel,
		ELIZA A. TRACY, Pres.
		EMMA BURROWS, Secy.


A GENTLE SURPRISE.

	A few sisters gathered at the house of Bro.
Josiah H. Perry's, Nov. 7th, 1890, to celebrate the
70th, birthday of his wife, Lucinda Eliza Perry,
daughter of Barnet and Phebe Venolstine Cole,
born at Springville, Pennsylvania. Her parents
joined the Church in the early settlements of the
Saints in Kirtland, Geaugua Co. (Now Lake Co.)
Ohio. Lucinda joined the church at the age of
nine years, at the same time Eliza Partridge was
baptized by Calvin Beebe; near Kirtland. The
day Lucinda was eleven years old she was driven
with the family from Jackson Co., Mo., and traveled
barefooted on the burnt prairie. Her father was
whipped the same night the Flulets and Lyman
Leonard were driven from the state and settled
in Nauvoo, Ill. She has been driven with the
Saints through all the mobbings. When the
martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch took
place she was near by. she heard the guns that 
did the hellish deed. Sister Lucinda often speaks
of the circumstances with a heart full of tender-
ness, the recollection can never be forgotten, it
makes a great impression on those who listen to
her when she speaks of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the prophet, and his noble character.
She knew him personally and testifies that he was
a man of God.
	She was married to Josiah H. Perry, Nov. 30th,
1845, received her endowments in the Nauvoo
Temple in 1846, arrived in Salt Lake City, 1850;
settled in Huntsville, Weber Co; is the mother
of nine children. We felt to congratulate Sister
Perry on her good health and appearance and
wished her many happy returns of the day; while
life shall be a blessing to her, with her aged
husband; and we hope her children may be as
firm in the testimony of truth at the same ad-


vanced age. That is the wish of those who sur-
prised her.
		E. B.
	Huntsville,Weber Co.


[Column 1]

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of special meeting of Salt Lake
County Woman's Suffrage Association, held
in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall, Jan.
13, 1891. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, presiding; the
corresponding secretary, Miss Emma Finch,
was called to act as secretary. Mrs. Elizabeth
Price was appointed chaplain. Mrs. Kimball
spoke of the nature of the organization and
the principles underlying the subject of suf-
frage.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards was then called upon
and said she was a suffragist at heart, sug-
gested the reading of the constitution and
by-laws, for the benefit of those present, and
said she felt interested in the work, not only
on her own account, but for all women who
were heads of families. If we educate our-
selves, we will then be companionable with
our husbands and sons.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber said she felt interested
in the work, and also felt that the study of
politics would broaden the ideas of women.
Wyoming had stepped forward in this direc-
tion and she believed great good would result.
	Mrs. S M. Kimball nominated Mrs. Phoebe
Beattie as delegate to Washington, from Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. Stated that the member-
ship fee was fifty cents, also that the names
were to be sent to Washington, and a fee of
ten cents to accompany each name. The
meeting was then given into the hands of Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Pres. S. L. County W. S.
A., and Mrs. Kimball was excused; suggest-
ed that the National Constitution be a subject
of study, also Robert's Rules of Order.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell said she felt inter-
ested in the work, and thought all should
be active in making the Association a success;
felt the time would come when we would do
more good to each other on a broader platform
than we had done in the past.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, stated
that the W. S. A., at Farmington, had held
meetings with the gentlemen once a week and
had had very interesting times; formed them-
selves into a branch of the Legislature and
had passed a bill through, and had learned
more than if they had been studying alone;
suggested the reading of a pamphlet entitled:
"Freedom's Conquest." Hoped we would pro-
gress and use the franchise well when we
should receive it again. Referred to Wyom-
ing's success.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt encouraged, and
knew we were becoming better educated in the
work, as all had sustained Mrs. Beattie as dele-
gate, it would require work on the part of all
to send her to Washington. Learned more
while in Washington than she could learn by
years of study and reading, and felt that
women could and should stand side by side
with man. The politics of the day would be
purified by women if they were allowed the
franchise. We should pray for the delegates
and sustain them in every way we could.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards then read parts of the
National American Constitution, and explain-
ed what was expected from members.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp, made a few remarks,
which were followed by suggestions from Mrs.
Ann D. Groesbeck and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie;
the meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in the month, Jan. 20, at 2 p. m., in the 14th
Ward Relief Society Hall.
	E. Finch, Secretary, pro tem.

[Column 2]

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A. met as per adjourn-
ment in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall
at 2 p. m., Tuesday Jan. 20, 1891. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair; prayer by the
chaplain, Maria W. Wilcox, minutes of previ-
ous meeting read by the secretary, names of
members presented and voted upon; accepted
unanimously.
	Pres. Howard supposed that all present
were familiar with the object of the meeting;
women had for years been held back; we live
in a day of advancement. She had the privilege
of meeting with the ladies of Wyoming in
public gatherings, and had advised them to
vote for good men to fill official positions
whether they were Republicans or Democrats.
We should try and encourage others to join the
Association. From this time on our regular
meeting will be held on the third Tuesday in
each month, the place of meeting will be desig-
nated in the call issued. As Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beattie has been elected as our delegate to
represent us in Washington, it has been pro-
posed that we sustain her by our prayers.
Spoke at some length upon the subject of
bribery.
	Mrs. Beattie thanked the sisters cordially
for the honor conferred in nominating her to
such a responsible position; it would be an
entire new experience, and she would need all
the support the ladies could give her.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell was interested in
suffrage, thought we were beginning to reap
the results of our labors in this work; it would
be a good plan to have a committee to get up
subjects to be presented before the meeting.
Thought women were qualified to take many
positions heretofore occupied by men; a prom-
inent man had said to her that women had
proved themselves honest in their work. One
woman that had been taken into the Govern-
ment Office, who did more work than the men
employed there, had just half the pay—and it
would always be so until women had a voice
in making the laws.
	A poem by Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee
was read by Mrs. C. I. Kirby, who also made
some remarks upon the subject of suffrage,
and related some of her own experiences when
abroad in the world.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze made what she called
her infant speech, as she had never spoken
upon the subject before; related an instance
which took place in her childhood, in which
she considered herself outraged; had noticed
that it was the most intelligent people who
had advocated universal suffrage, good moves
slowly; women themselves are not awake to
the importance of the subject; she then gave
some happy illustrations of her position on the
question.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball explained some matters
in reference to a large membership, and Mrs.
M. Y. Dougall gave some of the points defi-
nitely.
	Mrs. Janet Morris endorsed what had been
said by the former speakers; and made the
remark that if that was Mrs. Freeze first
speech, she would like to hear her last.
	Mrs. M. E. Irvine was a born suffragist, and
honored the women who had stood forward
amidst persecution in defense of those princi-
pics, thought there should be plans for carry-
ing out a programme.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was pleased with the
interest manifested, liked the idea of some
practical plan for study, thought a mock legis-
lation as had been suggested was pretty good,
but she would like a city council to become
acquainted with municipal affairs first. Sug-
gested that we should drop the title of Mrs.,
and be plain Elizabeth Howard, &c.,
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt anxious as one
of the Executive Committee, to keep up the
meetings and not let the interest die out.
Related a little of her own experience in get-


ting a living; the reasons given for some dis-
tinction between men and women; for instance
men Doctors command a larger fee than
women, but when women ride on a railroad
they pay the same price, or if one goes to a
restaurant for dinner, there is no difference in
the price, and this is true in many cases. Men
and women are charged alike.
	Pres. Howard presented some business to the
meeting, after which it was adjourned for one
month. Quite a number of ladies came for-
ward and paid the membership fee.
		C. C. RALEIGH, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		SNOWFLAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Relief
Society of Snowflake Stake, held at Taylor,
Nov. 30th, 1890.
	President Emma S. Smith presiding. After
the usual opening exercises, followed by appro-
priate remarks by Sister Smith, the roll was
called, and eight officers responded.
	Sophia Johnson and Mary A. Standifird
reported the R. S. of Pinedale and Taylor.
Interesting remarks were made by Frances R.
Thompson and Emily J. Hancock.
	Counselor Sarah Driggs esteemed it a privi-
lege to meet once more in conference. Spoke
at some length of her childhood days, and the
training she had received.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis was thankful to
live in this day, and that thus far she had been
enabled to remain faithful. Was glad she was
not ashamed to pray, and had proven many
times that much could be accomplished by
earnest prayer.
	Phoebe Kartchner was the next speaker,
mentioned some of the difficulties that beset us,
and concluded with the remark that our
Heavenly Father is very merciful, and will
amply reward us for all we are called upon to
endure.
	President Lorenzo H. Hatch spoke on the
subject of laying up our treasures in Heaven.
	President Emma S. Smith urged all to pay
heed to the remarks of Brother Hatch, and
study the Book of Mormon with prayerful
hearts. Expressed regret that the attendance
was so meagre. Prayed that peace and love
and goodwill might abound among the Saints.
	Meeting was dismissed with singing, and
prayer by Counselor Sarah Driggs.
	There was also a meeting of the sisters in
the evening. A number of the Presidents of
the several branches of the R. S. were present
and made very spirited and instructive
remarks.
					DELLA FISH, Secretary.

			WASATCH STAKE
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Wasatch Stake was held in the Stake House,
at Heber City, Nov. 7th, 1890. President
Emma Brown presiding. Meeting opened at
10 a. m. by singing, “The morning breaks, etc."
Prayer by Sister Ann Murdock, singing
“Come all ye saints, etc.” Present on the
stand the Stake Presidency also Presidents of
the different branches. Minutes of  last
Conference read and approved. President
Brown said she was pleased to see so many
present and felt glad for the privilege of at-
tending conference; said the Lord had greatly
blessed the people of this Stake, and we should
strive to show our gratitude to Him for the
many blessings bestowed on us by embracing
the opportunities offered us. Made some
other interesting and instructive remarks and
gave some good counsel. Verbal reports of
an encouraging nature were given by the
Presidents of the different branches. Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing "We

[column 2]
thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Benedic-
tion by President Brown.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m. by
singing,“Let every mortal ear attend.” prayer
by President A. Hatch Singing, “We're not
ashamed to own our Lord.” Remarks were
made by Sisters Alexander and Daybell of 
the Stake Presidency, also by Sister A.
Murdock and Brother T. Giles and Wm.
MacGee. A call was made for $1.00 a year
from the larger wards and 50 cents from the
others to be paid into the treasury for mis-
sionary purposes, which was unanimously
sustained. A yearly meeting of the branches
for the purpose of electing officers was spoken
of, and so ordered. President Brown desired
the presidents to send two missionaries to the
Primaries regularly, also requested the presidents
to see that their reports were forwarded to the
Stake Sec. by the first of March and September.
The times to meet in Conference were appointed,
being the last Thursday of May and Sept.
Sister Brown felt that we had had a very
enjoyable conference, thanked all for coming
and exhorted them to diligence in the per-
formance of duties. Conference adjourned to
meet the last Thursday in May, 1891. Sing-
ing, “Come Come ye Saints.” Benediction by
Bro. Thomas H. Giles.
			HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.

		DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held at East
Bountiful, Oct. 24, 1890. President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were the Pres.
of Stake, Mrs. Susan Grant and Counselors,
Sister Z. D. H. Young of Salt Lake City, Bro.
John Hess, Bro. William Muir and others.
After the usual opening exercises, the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ap-
proved.
	President Grant said she was pleased to
meet the sisters in the capacity of a Confer-
ence. It has been moved and seconded that
we sustain Sister Zina D. H. Young as Presi-
dent over the Releif Society in the world, and
Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith as her Counselors. Unanimously
sustained. Stake officers also presented and
unanimously sustained. Sister Grant said she
thought it best to represent Presidents of the
different branches in their own Wards. I can
testify that I have been blessed in meeting
with the different branches of R. S. in this
Stake. I think we are all trying to do the
best we can—can say that I and my counsel-
ors are united and trying to do our duty.
We will now hear from the Presidents of the
different branches. Pres. Jane Muir, Pres. 
Lucina Sessions, and Pres. Margaret Randall
each gave very favorable reports of their res-
pective branches.
	Bro. Wm. Muir, being called upon said, I
feel to add my mite to your Conference, it
really does me good to look at these aged
sisters, I think they are the ones who stand at
the helm—they are the ones who have rocked
the cradles, and their course has been onward,
and the Latter day Saints do not stop pro-
gressing. Compare the present condition of
our people with sixty years ago. It is what we
do we get credit for, and not what we leave
undone. Gave very good advice in regard to
storing wheat, and advised the sisters to do
their work on business principles,and “I want to
say, .God bless you, and can say you are
blessed.”
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young then addressed the
meeting—we have heard so much good, I hope
I shall not say anything to make you forget it.
I do enjoy the blessings of the Gospel—my
heart aches for those who do not come to meet-
ing, for we need the bread of life for our spirits.
By and by, when pay day comes, those who do

[column 3]
not attend to their duties will want just as
much as those who do, but they will fall short.
If our thoughts are pure our actions will be
pure. I am proud of my sister’s integrity and
their efforts to do good. If we speak lightly of
a man it destroys the influence of that man.
Made a few remarks in regard to the manifesto,
said it was like electricity to her when it was
read; but it is all right, and the authorities
of this Church are all right and God will bless
them. Teach your children to take care of
their health, the bondage of the flesh is not the
bondage of the soul. Advised the sisters to take
the EXPONENT. I am talking too long. God
bless you, Amen.
	Pres. John Hess expressed his pleasure and 
gratification for what he had heard, and was
pleased to be present. This organization is a 
very important one, it was organized in a very
early day when our beloved Prophet Joseph
was moved upon to organize the sisters in a
Relief Society, and I do not think the brethren
have supported it as they should have done.
The prosperity of this society depends upon the
unity of the people. I believe there is as much
expected of this society as any other, and you
are doing much good, but how much more
good might be done if there was more interest
taken. Who are profited by this meeting?
Those who are here and not those who are ab-
sent. When I contemplate the carelessness we
manifest as a people, I wonder at the prosperity
we enjoy. It is expected that the Sisters will
relieve the poor. When they do this, it is with-
out expecting a pecuniary reward, but to feel
that they have done their duty. I am glad
that I am here, I know the spirit of the Lord
and the spirit of humility are here. You that
are faithful use your influence with others, the
Lord our God has been good to us. He has
given us our agency and is not going to take it
from us; we are lacking in our faith in God,
but He bears with us. When the wicked gain a
point I think it is for our experience and our
good. I think it would be advisable for the
Presidents and Counselors to visit the people.
I pray God to bless this organization and our
aged sister, President Zina D. H. Young.
	Pres. S. Grant, we truly have had a feast,
and we will now adjourn our meeting until 2
p.m. Singing, "Come let us anew,”&c. Benedic-
tion by P. G. Sessions.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing,
“We are not ashamed to own our Lord.”—
Prayer by Pres. Hess. Singing. Pres. Hor-
tensia Leonard, Pres. Jane Blood, Pres. Phoebe
Atkinson and Pres. Elizabeth Watts then re-
ported the branches of the R. S. over which
they preside, and made very interesting and
useful remarks.
	Pres. Z.D.H. Young said, I will suggest that
the Presidents and Counselors visit those who
do not come to meeting. When the teachers
visit they should comfort the sick and afflicted,
let us be faithful to our covenants and to each
other, there are many healed by faith and 
prayer; referred to circumstances where the
sick had been healed. There is nothing greater
to me than our Primary Associations; they are
such a benefit to our children. Don't let our
hearts be fearful, for this Gospel is here to stay.
Joseph said when he organized the Relief
Society we had no conception of the good that
would be done through this organization; the
Sisters are doing a great and glorious work,
we must overcome this hurried feeling; it wears
us out. Refered to the Temple work for our
dead; and spoke of the Lord inspiring the
people to get up their genealogies. Let the
branches of the R.S. visit each other and the
Presidents and Counselors visit each other.
	Bro. Perrigrine Sessions said, how many
there are taken up with the cares of life; we
make covenants with our Heavenly Father
and they are often broken, why is it? it is be-
cause we are not faithful and diligent, and are


too much taken up with the things of this
earth; can we expect the Almighty to pour out
His Spirit if we break the covenants we have
made with him; when we attend to our duties
we have the Spirit of the Lord with us, let us
keep our covenants; be faithful and do the work
for our dead. Sisters be particular in train-
ing your children and be humble before the
Lord.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers, President of the Pri-
mary Association of Farmington, Counselor
Mary Clark and Counselor Lucinda Brown
spoke very interestingly, and gave good in-
struction.
	Sister Young said she would say a few words
on Suffrage, we should teach our sons the
necessity of voting. We have our rights with
our husbands. Sisters do all you can to make
your homes attractive, may God bless and pro-
tect us.
	Pres. Grant said, I feel very much pleased with
our meeting, and may we be benefited and
strengthened in what we have heard. We will
now adjourn our meeting for three months to
meet at Centreville. Singing, “The Spirit of
God,” &c. Benediction by Pres. Hess.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HUNTINGTON PRIMARY FAIR.

	DEAR EDITOR: Thinking that a few lines
would be of some interest to you, from our
Primary Association, to let you know how we
are progressing out here in Emery County, we
decided to send you a notice of our Primary
Fair.
	In Huntington we have a Primary Associa-
tion of upwards of one hundred and fifty child-
ren, and we have an average attendance of
eighty. On September 27th, a fair was held
here; there was a very nice assortment of ar-
ticles shown up by the children. Fair com-
mencing at 10 o’clock. Things were arranged
to begin programme. Stake President and
Counselor were present. Proceedings com-
menced with singing and prayer.
	Forenoon exercises: recitation by Matilda
Stallworthy, repeating the ten commandments,
Lydia and Minerva Mackelprang; song, May
Robinson; recitation, Lula Stevens; dialogue,
Lizzie Johnson and others; recitation, Rosella
Riley; song, Estella Colbard; recitation, Otilda
Johnson, Bible questions asked by Susannah
Roper; song, Hattie Ovard; dialogue, Charles
Johnson and others. Stake President Margaret
Washburn spoke very interestingly to the
children, said there was a great deal of good
to be learned, and we all no doubt can bear a
strong testimony to the same.
	Song by Ellen Fowler, remarks by Presi-
dent Adelia Mackelprang; adjourned till 2 p.
m. Dancing commenced 2 p. m, for the children,
songs and recitations intermingled. At five
o’clock the children were seated and refresh-
ments served, of which they partook with joyful
hearts and happy smiles. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Parley Washburn.
	SUSANNAH R. MADSON, Secretary, Pro tem.


It is proposed to start a new magazine in
New York next spring, with Mrs. May Riley
Smith as editor.

	Gov. Russell’s address to the Massachusetts
Legislature, last Thursday, was largely de-
voted to proposed reforms of the suffrage. He
denounced the existing tax-qualification for
voting as a violation of "this great primal right
of freedom,” and he affirmed that “the consti-
tutional provision which would deny to the
poor man who could not pay his tax-bill, the
right to vote, should be forever blotted out of
the constitution of a Christian commonwealth.”
But not a word did he utter in censure of the


exclusion from suffrage of one-half of the citi-
zens solely because they are women.—Ex.


CONVENTION NOTES.

	The coming convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, to be
held at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington,
D. C., February 26 to March 1,1891, prom-
ises a programme rich and varied. There will
be two public sessions daily, at 10 a. m. and
7:45 p. m., and a service on Sunday afternoon,
March 1, which will be conducted by eight of
our best women ministers. Rev. Caroline J.
Bartlett, of Kalamazoo, Mich., will preach
the sermon. There will be choice music by
the best talent at all of the sessions, in addi-
tion to that fnrnished by the orchestra.
	Among the speakers will be Miss Florence
Balgarnie, of England; Julia Ward Howe,
Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Mrs. Lide Meriwether, Rev.
Anna Shaw, Hon. J. M. Carey, Mrs. Zerelda
G. Wallace, Carrie Lane Chapman, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Hou. Wm. Dudley Foulke,
Mrs. Josephine K. Henry, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick and a
host of others.
	Admission for the convention is announced
as follows:
Box for season (seven sessions)	. . . . $10 00
Season, reserved seat, (seven sessions) .    2 00
Single ticket (with reserved seat) . . .		50
Single admission . . . . . . . . . . . .             	25
	Sale of season tickets at 1406 G street until
February 26, and after that date at the ticket
office at Albaugh’s Opera House.
	Executive sessions and all committee meet-
ings will be held at the Suffrage Parlors, 1406
G street northwest.
	The Riggs House will be the headquarters
of the Convention, and will give reduced rates
to delegates and visitors.
	The reduced railroad rates have been grant-
ed in the name of the National Council of
Women (which meets at Albaugh’s Opera
House the four preceding days), and extend
from February 19 to March 5, thus covering
the time of both Council and Suffrage Conven-
tion. Delegates and visitors to either meet-
ings will therefore procure in the name of the
National Council of Women, certificates from
agent at point of starting that the full fare one
way has been paid, in order that the reduction
on the return trip may be granted.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, It has pleased God to take from our midst
our esteemed friend and co-laborer, Sarah E. Creer, only
daughter of William and Sarah Banks, and beloved wife
of William O. Creer. The deceased born at Spanish Fork
Utah, Feb. 5th, 1867, married Feb. 12th, 1890, died Nov.
28th. 1890. Being the happy bride of not quite ten months.
	Therefore be it Resolved: That we recognize in her
death the loss of one of earth's noble women, also a
member of the Woman's Suffrage Association of Spauish
Fork.
	Resolved: That althongh she was cut down as a flower
in full bloom and beauty, by the rude hand of death, and
torn so unexpectedly from the hearts of those who loved
her, that we acknowledge the hand of God; and ever
strive to emulate her virtues and noble example.
	Resolved: That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and cause these resolutions to be
spread on the records of the Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion of Spanish Fork,and that a copy be presented to the
parents and to the husband of deceased, also that a copy
be forwarded to "WOMAN'S EXPONENT" for publication.
								LUCY DAVIS,
								NANCY JAMES,
								CARRIE HOLT,
									Committee.
	In behalf of W. S. A., Spanish Fork City, Jan. 13th,
1891.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naiebitt-Thomas, Sup
[column 1]
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children.
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

[no column]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES;
			Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS;
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
