Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1890.			No. 11.


CONTENTS.

	The Opinion of an American Woman Whose
Forefathers Fought for the Liberty that we are
Denied To-day,—Helen M. Whitney. Notes and
News. Review of Primary Associations with In-
structions. Aunt Lu's Story,—Minerva. R. S
Report—Emery Stake.
	EDITORIAL:—The Industrial Home an Experi-
ment. Editorial Notes, Mabel Clare Richards.
Items of History,—S. G. Richards.
	POETRY—Thanksgivin Hymn, Carleton. Voices
from Loved Ones,—Lucy. In the Twilight,—M.
A.Y.G. "There Remaineth a Rest." L.M.
Hewlings. I Shall Know Her Again,—B. F. Tay-
lor. To a Departing Missionary,—M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh.


THANKSGIVING HYMN.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is bright—
The gleam of the day and the stars of the night;
The flowers of our youth and the fruits of our prime,
And blessings that march down the pathway of time.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is drear—
The sob of the tempest, the flow of the tear;
For never in blindness, and never in vain,
Thy mercy permitted a sorrow or pain.

We thank Thee, O Father, for song and for feast—
The harvest that glowed, and the wealth that increased;
For never a blessing encompassed earth's child
But Thou in Thy mercy looked downward and smiled.

We thank Thee, O Father of all, for the power
Of aiding each other in life's darkest hour;
The generous heart, and the bountiful hand,
And all the soul-help that sad souls understand.

We thank Thee, O Father, for days yet to be—
For hopes that our future will call us to Thee;
That all our eternity form, through Thy love,
One Thanksgiving day in the mansions above.
		WILL CARLETON.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		VOICES FROM LOVED ONES.

They come to me on the wand'ring winds
	Afar over the mountains high and steep,
Broad rivers, prairies, vast forests grim,
	And o'er mighty oceans, wide and deep.
I hear loved voices echoing far,
	Floating along with each passing breeze,
Many glad greetings to me have come,
	Thro' the soft whisperings of the trees.
Yea, oftimes their loving thoughts have come,
	In the fresh sweet songs of wild-wood birds,
And in the gladsome and cheerful tones,
	Of happy children's musical words.
And the fragrance of each faithful heart,
	I breathe in, from the beauteous rose,
Tears of grief or joy that dim their eyes,
	Are the dew its blossomed leaves enclose.
In each sweet flower and shrub and tree,
	Some dearly beloved image I trace,
Of the departed, kind true-hearted,
	Of some fondly familiar dear face.
There are many precious,priceless links,
	Entwined within true affections chain,
To charm, to gladden, and to impart—
	A balm of healing, for oft-tried pain.
Spirits of my loved ones come to me,
	In the solemn stillness of the night.
We greet each other in pleasant dreams,
	Live over the past with glad delight,
Thanks for this subtle magic power!


Tho' our earthly forms apart remain,
Thus to meet and to greet each other,
	In freedom naught earthly can restrain
Loved voices come back like the echoes
	Of sweet songs, and chimes of silvery bell,
And throughout the vast realm of nature,
	Wherever I may roam, they will dwell.
		LUCY.
Atchison Kan.


IN THE TWILIGHT

A REVERIE.

On a calm, bright Summer evening, 
	When the day had almost sped,
And the sun was near his setting.
	And Spring, and youth had fled.

I heard the voice of waters,
	I heard them rippling flow,
Like the wailing notes of sorrow,
	Or the murmurings of woe.

For my soul was sad and weary
	With its load of earthly care,
And the "still small voice” was smothered,
	By the moaning of despair.

But while I thus stood musing
	The sky above grew bright,
For the moon in all her splendor
	Drove away the clouds of night.

And her track like silver gleaming,
	O’er the brooklet’s dancing crest,
Seemed like an angel speeding,
	To tell of peace and rest.

For my life was overshadowed, 
	And its future hid from sight,
As I stood upon the brookside,
	In the shade of coming night.

But the twinkling home light whispered,
	There is work still to be done,
You must wait, and labor bravely,
	For awhile the hard race run.

And the quiet graveyard stretching,
	To the flowing brooklets shore,
Seemed the entrance to an haven,
	Where the weary work no more.

While the moonlight seemed to promise,
	As it chased the gloom away,
Of a brighter life hereafter,
	In "realms of endless day."

It brought a gleam of gladness,
	That bore my thoughts away,
From the sadness that oppressed me,
	In the twilight cold and gray.

Then my soul seemed cheered within me,
	For I thought I saw a hand,
Waving slow and genily o’er me,
	In the moonbeams on the strand.

And I heard the sound of voices,
	As the waters murmured low,
Singing hymns of joy and gladness,
	That made my spirit glow.

With a gleam of life eternal,
	Spent near my Father's throne,
From which I once had wandered,
	To seek an earthly home.
					M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods of Salem, Mass.,
has been elected a member of the Society of
Authors of London.


THE OPINION OF AN AMERICAN
WOMAN WHOSE FOREFATHERS
FOUGHT FOR THE LIBERTY
THAT WE ARE DENIED
TODAY.

	I am glad to be once more able to express
my thoughts through our friend the EXPONENT.
It has been a long time since I felt able to
write or to mingle with those whose interests
are mine, and are engaged in the same great
work of redemption of the human race,looking
forward to the grand and glorious victory of
the righteous. But it has been my prayer that
our faith might be equal to the trials that are
necessary to the proving,and separating the gold
from the dross. That we might overcome, all
instead of being overcome especially the young
and inexperienced who may not see God in the
sudden and unlooked for turn that things
have taken. I refer to the late Declaration of
President Woodruff which was sustained by
the Conference without an opposing vote.
When I perused the minutes I did so with a
prayerful heart and desire for the right spirit
and understanding to judge of its true source.
And the testimony, and spirit that came to me
was strong enough to convince me that this
step was right, and I was more strongly im-
pressed that Joseph Smith was inspired in all
that he uttered as the word of the Lord. I was
satisfied that the Spirit of God burned in the
bosoms of those who spoke, and rested upon the
congregation which was visible upon all with
whom I conversed- and more especially after
the Sunday morning session. I readily dis-
cerned this to be a most glorious era, one that
had been long looked forward to by the saints.
So mysteriously had the Lord worked and
brought about His plans,bringing to pass His
own purposes independent of man's all of
which fall in such utter insignificance before
Him that one is brought to realize one's own
nothingness as it were, and sink in humble
submission to His will or pleasure as it seemeth
Him good. I know that these trials will bring
to us their precious fruits and that all that
the wicked have done, or will do against this
work can never hurt nor hinder its onward
course. Through the late action of Congress
against this Church they have unwittingly
pushed it forward into a higher and more
favorable position before the world than it
ever previously held. While the government
that has consented to and favored the unjust,
unconstitutional measures that have been en-
acted for the purpose of robbing and breaking
up a peacable people who are hated for their
virtues that were once the pridə of this nation,
has sounded its own death-knell, instead of
that of "Mormonism." Many doubt their
sincerity in ceasing the practice of Polygamy,
some think they may be honest now, but are
likely to change in a future time and might
become a terror to this nation. We will ad-
mit that were the principles of the Gospel
lived up to by this or any other community,
as it was taught by Christ, and His disciples,
and accepted as the "Mormon's" standard, they
would become a terror to the ungodly. Many
Gentiles who have settled in Utah, and others
who have come here and taken the time to
study the main characteristics of this "peculiar
people" have paid them the highest compli-
ments. A late writer upon the "Mormon"
problem says "they are noted for their dignity
cleanliness and observance of the Sunday


[Column 1]

"That they are intelligent and industrious
and model citizens in every respect". Many
more equally flattering compliments have
been paid them but which of course is agoniz-
ing to their political and religious foes to hear
the "Mormons" paaised for virtues that are so
necessary to make up a temperate and thriv-
ing community but of which they have proven
themselves so little deserving.
	Here is a paragraph frrm the Milwaukee
Wisconsin" commenting upon the "Mormons,"
etc. taken from the Deseret News of Oct. 15.
"The great body of the American people will
have no fault to find with Mormondom when
Mormondom obeys the laws of the land, and
conforms its marriage system to the require-
ments of morality and modern civilization.
The clashing of Gentile and Mormon interests
in the past will soon be forgotten. Mormon
thrift and sobriety will be recognized as the
virtues which they are, and Utah, the teeming
Territory which has so long by her own social
perverseness stood outside the pale will be joy-
fully welcomed into the "sisterhood of states."
	The "Mormons" have little cause at present
to believe that "That the great American
people" would welcome them "into the sister-
hood of states" no matter how much they did
to prove their loyalty to the laws of this
government. Their worst accusers and would
be usurpers, and conscience-binders and public
advocaters of immortality, dishonesty und
crime, and the lowest of vices, claim to be
"Americnn citizens". Such are the kind that
have been appointed and sustained in this
wholesale thieving scheme in Utah and in
which they are encouraged, and assisted by
preachers of morality and "modern civilization."
	Of course the writer of the above article
meant kindly but is unacquainted, like the
world in general, with the lives and early ex-
perience of the Latter-day Saints, that they
were always hated and persecuted from the
hour that they joined the church called "Mor-
monites." There were always a few honorable
exceptions who were willing to credit them with
virtues such as they deserved. but they were not
generally professers of Christianity.
	The most inhuman and barborous cruel-
ties that were ever inflicted upon them were
instigated and lead on by sectarian ministers
in the states of Ohio, Missouri and Illinois,
and this was before they had been accused of
practicing Polygamy. The most serious
accusations brought against them then was
the teaching of perverse and blasphemous
doctrines though they were scriptural, and
the same as were taught by Christ and His
disciples, for which they suffered and laid
down their lives, and the same fate has befallen
so many of the Christian reformers who have
dared to face the hatred and fury of self-
righteous, sectarian dignitaries from that day
to this.
	Another bitter accusation against the Latter-
day Saints was their gathering together and
seeking to be one, etc., after the pattern laid
down by the Redeemer. All those things were
condemned as the most heinous of delusions
and which must be renounced or the people
suffer the penalties that were then and there
pronounced upon them. But, how long was
it before those "heinous delusions" were picked
up and taught as "new lights" by some of the
professed ministers who had rejected the same
and joined in the hue and cry against "old Joe
Smith," and his deluded followers? What has
been laid to them that has not been followed
after in one way or another by their 'Christian'
neighbors I am at a loss to know. For this,
and other reasons we may look for a reaction
upon this polygamous question, and among the
ardent will be found those who have made it
appear such a low and heinous sin in the
"Mormons" and brought upon them the wrath
of this nation, with the hope of their speedy

[Column 2]

extermination or banishment to some other far
off, uninviting waste such as they found Utah
some forty years ago. Although they have
yielded one point to the powers that be, no
true saint will renounce a truth or a doctrine
of this faith for which Joseph Smith and many
more have laid down their lives to establish.
Any man or woman who would stop and think
a little more of the natural laws of nature if
they are not grossly wicked, ignorant or blind
to the present corrupt and rotten condition of
the civilized world, which is standing in the
way of the elevation of human kind, would be
silent upon the degrading and pernicious
effects of Polygamy among the "Mormons."
Instead of boasting of their own superiority
they would see the necessity of a radical change
and would find a broad field for their missionary
labors among some of the more popular
churches whose feathery, luxuriant nests have
become tainted and befouled till virtue and
morality are but by-words from their lips and a
burlesque on true civilization.
	"The tree is known by its fruits," and the
"Mormons" would like to be better known by
"The great body of the American people," and
all other peoples, and to have them judge be-
tween the fruits of "Mormonism" and their
boasted institutions which are held up as ex-
amples for the "Mormons" to follow. No, none
who have honored the principles of "Mor-
monisra" need feel humiliated before them.
	"Mormon" fathers cannot shift their respon-
sibilities as is customary in more highly ad-
vanced civilization, but are required to
acknowledge and provide for their offspring as
honorable heirs to their name, and every
mother who is worthy of the title is honored
as wife, such as those so highly favored
anciently, who received such great promises,
and whom even the Almighty was not above
blessing with His presence.
	And what of the Great Redeemer whom all
Christians profess to worship. Did He not
come through a Polygamous lineage? Have
they any greater source to apply to for the
glory that they are anticipating in the great Be-
yond? What of the predictions of holy men
of old concerning the scenes that were to tran-
spire in the last days? How about the gates
of Zion—(America) that Isaiah said "Shall
lament and mourn," "And in that day seven
women shall take hold of the skirts of one man
saying' we will eat our own bread, and wear
our own apparel; only let us be called by thy
name to take away our reproach. In that day
shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and
glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be ex-
cellent and comely for them that are escaped
of Israel."
	This can have no reference to "Mormon"
women who have obeyed and honored the
plural wife order, there will be no "reproach"
upon them. They have proven the principle,and
know it to be a promoter of virtue, and a
higher type of purity and true civilization, and
that it would overturn and crush out of ex-
istence the pet institutions that modern society
permits and upholds, and which they know
would be jeopardized by the practice of plural
marriage. There are religious restraints upon
the members of this Church which they must
abide or lose their membership, and the re-
spect, and confidence of the people. They
have higher aims and aspirations, and too
great a reverence for virtue and Godliness and
their marriage vows to accept of anything in-
ferior, and again tread the old and crooked
paths of ignorance and degradation from which
they have made a happy escape.
	The Christian professors, or the unbelieving
are all at liberty to deride and deny, and pass
laws against what the Holy Bible teaches, and
sustains, but they will have to yield the palm
when they see the predictions of the ancient
prophets fulfilled. Could "The great body

[Column 3]

of the American people" be influenced by the
truth as easily as they are by the falsehoods that
are sent broadcast by the traducers of the
"Mormons" they might learn that the relin-
quishing of their "pet-hobby"—Polygamy—
was a more bitter disappointment to the re-
ligious, political clique that have gathered up
their forces to plunder the "Mormons" than it
has been to those whom they are seeking to
victimize. And that this "scare-crow" was
their great stronghold behind which they
could best work upon the feelings of the out-
side public and gain their assistance to carry
out their thieving scheme and other dark tricks
that would not stand the sunlight of truth.
Had this not been their only plausible excuse
to offer the world they would not have clung
to it as with a death grip, but would have
thrown it to the dogs long ago.
	They have sought by every means fair and
foul to lead the young "Mormons" to follow in
their paths of vice and corruption, all of which
they have boasted over, doing after Hades
familiar and most approved patterns. It
would be wonderful indeed to be mingled with
the characters that Utah and other Territories
have been so long cursed with if all came out
unscathed.
	It was predicted by prophets of old that all
nations would unite against Zion and say:
"Let her be defiled." The Prophet Joseph
Smith made similar predictions, and this peo-
ple ought to be prepared to meet these things
and to unite together as one man and let the
wicked rail against it as this is their mission.
They have put it in black and white that
man's first allegiance is to earthly powers. But
they will soon find out who rules the universe.
And that the religion called "Morminism" is
the grand stepping stone to honor, fame, and
all the glory that is to be obtained upon this
globe, and in the great future laying before
them where progression and power will have
no end. Though floods of falsehood and
blasphemy against it and those who have
rendered obedience to its mandates, and storm
of hate have howled and rolled mountains high
threatening to overwhelm the lone Ark, they
have but borne it up while those who assailed
it have been swallowed up, and forever lost in
the dark floods of death and oblivion. The
Pharaohs of to day are performing similar acts
and they will find that the same disastrous
effects will follow them, while the faithful who
hold to the promises of Him who has borne
them onward and upward, and is still standing
at the Helm,will find He will take them safely
into harbor.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Rosa Bonheur has finished a fine picture
of a Scottish shepherd taking shelter under a
tree. It has been engraved by Mr. B. Pratt,
and will be published by Mr. Lefevre.

	There are two ladies in this year’s junior
law class at Michigan University,—Miss
Emma R. Lee, of Salt Lake City, Utah, and 
Miss Julia R. Jenney, of Syracuse, N.Y.
	Pundita Ramabai has lately published a
book in Marathi on her experience in the
United States. The longest chapter is devoted
to the status of women in this country.
Ramabia is about to move her school to Poona,
where she first meant to establish it.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Champney has written her
ninth Vassar girl book. The scene is laid in
Switzerland. Mrs. Champney has just come
home from a summer in the Tyrol, so it is
probable that this volume will take the famous
three through that beautiful region.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"THERE REMAINETH A REST."

What tho, bleak desolations cloud 
	Comes o'er me here,
And being seems a troubled tide
	With sorrow near,
Life's fleeting dream will soon be o'er,
	There's rest beyond,
A home upon a sinless shore,
	Where loved are gone,
What tho' true friends are here denied,
	And none to cheer,
There's one above who is a friend,
	My Savior dear,
Tho' I awhile must walk alone,
	Braving life's storm,
I'll trust in Hum whose voice can still
	Its waves to calm.
What tho' the night-watch seemeth long.
	And grief holds sway,
There will come a glorious morn,
	Of endless day. 
L. M. HEWLINGS.


I SHALL KNOW HER AGAIN.

Oh, have you not seen on some morning in June,
When the flowers were in tears and the forests in tune,
When the billows of dawn broke bright on the air,
On the breast of the brightest, some star clinging there?
Some sentinel star, not yet ready to set–
Forgetting to wane, and watching there yet?
How you gazed on that vision of beauty awhile;
How it waved, till won by the light of God's smile;
How it passed through the portals of pearl like a bride:
How it paled as it passed, and the morning star died? 
The sky was all blushes, the earth was all bliss,
And the prayer of our heart, "Be my ending like this."


So my beautiful May passed away from life's even;
So the blush of her being was blended with heaven;
So the bird of my bosom fluttered up to the dawn–
A window was open–my darling was gone!
A truant from tears, from sorrow, and sin–
For the angel on watch took the wanderer in,
But when I shall hear the new song that she sings
I shall know her again notwithstanding her wings,
By those eyes full of heaven, by the light on her hair,
And the smile she wore here she will surely wear there.
			B. F. TAYLOR.


TO A DEPARTING MISSIONARY.
		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

Speed thee brother on thy journey, 
	Not to seek for wealth or fame,
But to distant lands benighted,	
	o thou forth in Jesus name.

There has come across the waters,
	Sounds of pleading in the night,
From souls, who are in darkness living
	Asking thee to bring them light.

'Tis not from the untaught heathen,
	Not from them the summons came,
But from Christian lands they call thee,
	To bring the Gospel in His name.

Whether called to other nations,
	Or at home thy work may be,
But to give a cup of water,
	Still, not in vain thy call should be.

It matters not how light the service,
	Or how small the task may be,
If performed in love and kindness,
	A blessing it will prove to thee.

Every little act of kindness,
	Every gentle soothing word,
Given to a suffering brother,
	At His throne will sure be heard,

Count not then thy toil a hardship,
	Precious souls thou may'st reclaim,
If thou goest prayerful, earnest,
	On thy mission, in His name.


Even should thy life be threatened,
	By those that, truth and justice hate;
Let thy faith be still unshaken,
	Calmly meet the martyr's fate.

Or in safety, home returning,
	Friends will meet thee, and proclaim,
How you've nobly, faithful labored,
	This indeed is priceless fame.


REVIEW OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
WITH INSTRUCTIONS.
	In the year 1878, the inspiration of the
Holy Spirit suggested to the mind of Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington, Davis Co.
the advisability of organizing associations for
the children of the Latter Day Saints for the
purpose of teaching them the Gospel and pro-
viding opportunities for learning by practical
experience, how to develop the spirituality of
their natures and cultivate the talents so
graciously and abundantly bestowed upon
them by their Creator. That in their early
childhood they may learn faith in God, and a
love for all that is good, pure and noble, and 
be taught to shun evil practices, and be pre-
served from all evil habits that tend to lead
astray and destroy. This idea was suggested
to that great organizer Sister Eliza R. Snow,
the friend of Women and Children, she laid
the matter before President John Taylor
who heartily endorsed the immediate organiza-
tion of the Primary Associations throughout
the Church.
	The first association was organized at Farm-
ington with Aurelia S. Rogers as president.
	Sister Snow with characteristic energy and
executive ability, set to work in earnest
ceasing not until similar organizations were
established in all the settlements.
	In 1879 stake organizations were effected to
superintend the labors of the local branches.
And in June of 1890 the officers of the Central
Board were chosen to preside over the whole,
they were Louie B. Felt President, Matilda
M. Barrett and Clara C. Cannon Counselors.
Lillie T. Freeze Secretary and Minnie Felt
Treasurer.
	Thus the Primaries became an established
feature in the Church. Great zeal and devo-
tion was everywhere displayed among the
officers, and the children were delighted to be
thus favored with little meetings of their own
suited to their limited capacity for receiving
instructions. As a matter of course owing to
a lack of understanding and its attendant lack
of appreciation the work has not received from
all quarters, the support and encouragement
due so worthy a cause. Many through failure
to investigate the object sought have looked
upon the primary organization as the most
insignificant, instead of the most important,
being the foundation upon which our future
society in the Kingdom of God is built. Still
the work despite all difficulties has slowly but
steadily advanced, growing in interest and
magnitude until there is an association in
every town and hamlet in Zion. 
	To meet the growing demands for more
systematic work add effectual help, an annual
Officers conference will be held in Salt Lake
City, where the best methods of enhancing the
interest of the meetings will be discussed,
suitable instructions given, and we trust
mutual benefit received.
	At our last conference held in the Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, October 5th 1890, the
following suggestions were laid before the meet-
ing which may if adopted, prove a guide to
others.
	Teach the children to fast and pray for the
sick. Teach them to repeat sentiments at roll
call, and adopt the keeping of some good
resolution for one week. Pray often in concert
it holds the attention, and accustoms them to
the use of correct forms of expressions in prayer.
[column 2]
Teach practical every day life, and train them
in punctuality, and a reverence for the House
of God. Discourage smoking. Also discourage
love songs and giving sensational recitations in
meeting. All exercises should tend to develop
the spiritual and moral character. Teach a rever-
ence for the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sister
Eliza R. Snow and the Holy Priesthood,
	Presidents of local branches should watch
the labors of the secretary, who are often young
and thoughtless, and see that reports are
promptly forwarded to the Stake Secy. And
always include a treasurer as a local or Stake
officer. Establish a small fund for Stake ex-
penses and every Stake is desired to send one
dollar per annum, to defray expenses of
Central Board. In order to present a truth-
ful record of our standing to the General
Conference, it is necessary that complete semi-
yearly reports be forwarded from every stake
in time to reach the Secretary of the Central
Board by the 15th of March and September.
Always send the address of Stake Secretary
and all the names of the Stake Officers.
	The Central Board should be notified when
any changes are desired and all changes made
should be reported.
	The programme committee hold a very
responsible position and should be under the 
immediate supervision of the president, their
term of office should not extend beyond six
weeks, they should possess a record book, and
carefully note every feature of work either of
success or failure, so that the exact status of
every child in the association may be on record
for future reference. At the expiration of every
term of office of this committee, they should
submit their labors to the meeting, so that suc-
ceeding committees may see where improvement
can be made. Attach the word prepared or
failed to the exercise assigned to the name of
each child. This book will greatly aid the
secretary in making out reports. Allow no
lengthy speeches but ask many questions, and
train the children to answer promptly and in
good time in concert. Keep them acquainted
with the names of general Church Authorities,
also local and Stake Officers in the primary
work.
	Much thoughtful preparatory work is neces-
sary to make all meetings and conferences
successful.
	Presidents are to have assistant counselors
or monitors sufficient to render all aid needed.
	Keep a strict report of the number of boys
present at all meetings and conferences.
	Train the children especially boys who are
backward to sing, recite, and answer questions
in concert, until they acquire confidence in
themselves. Introduce marching combined
with singing, physical exercises and various
features pleasing and restful. Suppress every-
thing tedious or wearisome, carfully avoid
monotony, make the meetings as cheerful and
attractive as possible. 
	Hold officers meetings whenever practicable,
pray together for wisdom, devise plans and
transact all business before it is presented to
the children.
	Introduce congregational singing, choirs
should only lead. The Central Board should
be sustained at every stake conference. Use
your influence with the Bishopric, to have
your meetings announced frequently from the 
stand, and labor diligently with parents to
send their children, where they may be taught
in the fear of God, without mony or price.
Your sisters in the Gospel of peace.
			LOUIE B. FELT, Pres.
			LILLIE T. FREEZE,
			CLARA C. CANNON,
						Counselors.
			MAY ANDERSON Sec'y.
			MINNIE S. CUTLER Treas.
	Address May Anderson 108 S. 7th East
Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mall,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1890.


[column 1]
THE INDUSTRIAL HOME AN EXPERI-
			MENT.
	We sincerely hope that all "Mormon" women
have read or will read the report of Mrs. Jeannette
H. Ferry, President of the Industrial Christian
Home Association in this City, published Nov. 7,
in full in the Deseret News. A meeting to elect
officers for the ensuing year was held Nov. 5, at
which time the President's report for the year
past was submitted. The report includes the fol-
lowing preamble and resolution adopted by the
Association in Feburary last.
	Whereas, The Industrial Christian Home
building is nearly completed, thereby affording
opportunity for the opening of industrial depart-
ments in accordance with the original plan of the
association, therefore,
	Resolved, That a committee of four be ap-
pointed of which Mrs. Angie F. Newman shall be
chairman, to co-operate with the Utah Commis-
sion in securing from Congress an appropriation
of $20,000 with which to obtain the necessary in-
structors and equipments for opening the various
industrial departments contemplated by this asso-
ciation and by Congress in the construction of the
Home building."
	So Congress is to be beseeched again for an
appropriation of $20,000 this time to aid in estab-
lishing industries to make "Mormon" women who
have renounced their faith self-supporting.
	Congress seems to have kind of an elephant on
its hands in the Industrial Home. It is so
exercised over the subject of polygamy that it
wants to provide for all those who will deny the
principle, industrial training. "Mormon" women
with very few exceptions have had industrial
training in homes of their own; and it is a fact
that cannot be denied that there are not women
enough in this Territory to fill the positions open
to them if housekeeping be included.
	There is scarcely a day that the writer is not
asked the question over and over, "where can I
get help?" "Do you know of any one wanting a
situation?" As for the home being a factor in
the solution of the problem of polygamy, or its
suppression we fail to see or comprehend it. Mrs.
Ferry in her report says,
	"Able statesmen in Congress considered this
movement an effective and essential factor in the
solution of questions involving the purity of wo-
man, the sacredness of the home and the peace and
safety of the American Republic."
	The consciences of Congressmen have been
terribly wrought upon because a few women from
religious conviction had consented to enter into a
marriage relation such as the ancient patriarchs
practised and become the mothers of children
and enjoy the privileges of a home—their righteous
souls are sorely vexed—while hundreds of women
without homes, protection or shelter, wander
[column 2]
through the streets of their great cities, desolate,
forsaken and abandoned to a fate worse than
death.
	Mormon women voted in the public assembly
in the Tabernacle on the 6th of October last to
obey the law of the land, and that vote from such
women can be relied upon; notwithstanding Mrs.
Ferry's insinuation that polygamy still exists.
But these same "Mormon" women are a very in-
dependent class, and are not at all likely to take
advantage of the situation the Industrial home
proposes.
	The whole concern is a ridiculous farce from
first to last, it is an experiment that has so far
proved a failure; it has been in operation four
years and reports at the present time nine inmates,
rather an expensive experiment indeed. The
Industrial Home might with all propriety be
called "An Experiment Station."


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On the 31st of October Pres. M. I. Horne went
to Morgan to attend the Sisters’ Conferences.
On the afternoon of the same day the Conference
 of the Primary Associations was held, Saturday
the Relief Society and Sunday the Y.L.M.I.A.
Sister Horne addressed each of these Conferences
and her visit and instructions were much appre-
ciated by those who were present. Sister Horne
returned home on Monday Nov. 3rd.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard recently made a tour
through Summit Stake with Pres. Mary Jane At-
wood and others, holding regularly two and some-
times three meetings in a day. Sister Howard
gives a good report of the organizations in that
Stake. Rock Springs, Evanston and Almy in
 Wyoming are included in Summit Stake and 
Sister Howard congratulated the women in these
towns on the privilege of voting.

	On the 30th of October in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young we attended the annual meet-
ing of the Relief Society at Lehi, which con-
vened at 10 in the morning and 2 in the after-
noon, Mrs. Rebecca Standring presiding. The 
annual report was a very favorable one, the meet-
ing was well attended and a good degree of the
HolySpirit was manifest. The next morning ac-
companied by Mrs. Standring we went to Ameri-
can Fork where two meetings were also held that
day by special appointment, and the same good
spirit prevailed. Bishop Geo. Halliday was pres-
ent at both meetings, and in the afternoon Pres.
Paxman of Juab Stake. Both these brethren ad-
dressed the congregation, testifying to the good
teaching and efficient labors of the sisters in the
Relief Society, and encouraging all to press on-
ward in the fulfillment of duty.

	The November election that elicited so much
enthusiasm among the people here is over, and 
the votes have been counted, showing over 9,000
majority for the People's Party, which was to b e
expected in view of the prevailing sentiment and 
desire for honest representation. Hon. John T.
Caine may proudly congratulate himself on the 
success of the ticket; it proves the high esteem
in which he is held as the Territorial Delegate 
and the confidence of the vast majority of the
people in his integrity and uprightness to their
interests. John T. Caine cannot truthfully be
accused of one-sidedness, he is wholly impartial
when the interests of the Territory are con-
sidered.


[Column 1]

MABEL CLARE RICHARDS.

	A beautiful child in face, in form and in that
native grace that gives the tone of, gentle refine-
ment to the manner and temperament was little
Mabel Clare. Lovely too in disposition and re-
ligiously inclined in her feelings and habits; she

[Column 2]

﻿became a member of the Primary Association
when only two years old, and ever loved dearly
to attend, often reciting little verses when so
small she had to stand upon a chair. In character
she was specially loving and lovable, devotedly
fond of her father, mother, little brothers and
sisters, grandparents and all her friends and play-
mates, always anxious to share any delicacy or
pleasure with others. She was one of those rare,
precious spirits too pure and tender to dwell long
upon earth, but who give us a glimpse of the
angelic purity and love of the heavenly world.
Such an one was Mabel Clare. Her gentleness,
patience and resignation, her faith in prayer, all
these beautiful traits in her character are indelibly
impressed upon those who were near to the little
one during her affliction and whose hearts were
wrung with grief for her sufferings.
	Last Christmas Eve she had a kind of nervous
shock, but her case was not considered serious
until sometime afterwards; though she could not
play like other children, and a little playhouse
was built for her in which she could amuse herself
without being over-fatigued. In this pleasant
way she spent many happy hours with her little
sister, cousins and friends, it was fitted up with
everything in the way of child's housekeeping,
dainty and pretty. It is deserted now and its
little owner has gone where there are delightful
places, and no more sorrow nor any pain and all
tears are wiped away. Mabel made her last visit
to the Primary on the 25th of May last, she wanted
to see the children again and they were anxious
to see her, for she was a favorite with them all;
the children always prayed for her and she felt
the benefit and blessing of their prayers.
	On the 22nd of October at 10:30 in the morning
after many weeks of painful suffering to the be-
loved child and agonizing suspense on the part of
parents and relatives, who tended her so care-
fully, and watched every change that took place,
little Mabel Clare passed peacefully away, leav-
ing an aching void in the hearts of those, who
clung to her with the most intense affection. Such
scenes and events baffle all description, but the
Latter-day Saints have an abiding hope that buoys
them up under the most severe trials. Brother
and Sister Richards were overwhelmed with grief
but all that tender and true friends could do, was
extended to them with the deepest sympathy in
their sad bereavement.
	The funeral was held at the family residence
on the 24th of October at 2 p. m., a large number
of friends and relatives assembled among whom
were the Primary children of the Second Ward
of Ogden to which little Mabel belonged.
	The casket containing the beautiful body from
which the spirit had departed was pure white
emblematic of the purity of the little one who lay
there as if asleep; it was literally covered with
beautiful flowers, the gifts of loving and sorrowing
friends. A silver plate on the lid was engraved
with the words:

	MABEL CLARE RICHARDS,
		DAUGHTER OF
	Charles C. Richards and Louisa Letitia Peery
Richards.
		Born at Ogden, May 12, 1884.
		Died at Ogden, Oct. 22, 1890.
	Our precious Mabel; she leads us Heavenward.
	The funeral services were very affecting, the
singing soothing and sympathetic; the opening
prayer was offered by Elder Jos. Hall, and con-
soling and inspiring remarks were made by Elder
Ben E. Rich, Bishop Stratford, Elder F. J.
Cannon and Bishop Mc'Quarrie. The speakers
all alluded to the lovely disposition and gentle
spirit of the little girl. The benediction was pro-
nounced by Pres. Middleton. A long cortege fol-
lowed the hearse to the grave.
	On arriving at the cemetery the casket was


placed in a heavy oak box and tenderly lowered
into a cement vault. The grave was dedicated by
Apostle F. D. Richards, the grandfather of the
child, after which in a short address he thanked
the many friends for their loving aid and respect
shown during the long illness of the little one,
and especially thanked the children of the Pri-
mary of which Mabel was a member, for the
prayers they had offered for her during her af-
fliction, and for attending the funeral in a body to
take the last look on earth of their little playmate
and companion.
	The writer also extends the most sincere sym-
pathy to the bereaved and lonely ones.

	"Oh, may He guide and bless and keep you ever,
		He who is strong to battle with your foes;
	Whoever,fails His love can fail you never,
		And all you need He in His wisdom knows,
				May God be with you.

	Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
		Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
	For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
		And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring
				If God be with us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ITEMS OF HISTORY.
					Salt Lake City,
						Sept. 21st, 1890.
DEAR SISTER ZINA D. YOUNG:
	You are aware after what I said, that I am not
going to write anything like history that is already
done; but merely to notice a few of the many
incidents so fraught with danger to the servants
of the Church especially; and the whole people
of the Latter-day Saints in and around the City
of Nauvoo.
	I presume you must remember the peaceful
times at Nauvoo when the Legion was parading,
and Joseph in command, his noble bearing and
fine appearance, mounted on his fine horse,
sword in hand giving orders to those around of
his staff.
	I was seldom out from the little place called home
never far alone; but the day I saw this first to me,
and as it proved last show of the Nauvoo Legion
as I have just described.—I was fortunately
placed in a very good position for observation in
front of Mr. Daniel Spencer's residence high
enough to see well around; every available place
was filled with ladies nicely, some elegantly
dressed, looking as happy as the day was fine;
and as if all things would harmonize henceforth
to have peace.
	But this was not to be the case those who can
recall to memory the sad and painful events of
that succeeding time,—The apostates, the sup-
pression of the vile publication the Nauvoo Ex-
positor; the continued evil work of these bands of
traitors seeking by every means to carry on their
purposes to destroy the Church; and scatter the
people, if they could not lead them to destruction;
and continually and by all means, seeking to take
the life of the Prophet. False brethren in the
city; traitors and foes without—thus in every way
distressing the people.
	Dr. Levi Richards and Lorenzo Snow with
many more kept watch and setting guards for the
safety of the people; the mud after the rain up
to their knees, (such mud I never saw the like in
any place or in any country I have been in.)
These brethren had to take their swords at their
sides when going to this duty of setting guard in
the evenings. The Doctor asked me if I had
any thing to serve as sashes to hold their swords;
I had but one thing I thought might answer the
present purpose, a scarlet cashmere scarf—this I
gave as the only article long and strong enough.
	The provisions were getting shorter, this was a
sad look out for the poor and sick; one poor old
lady donated two of her oxen; her all I believe,
or provisions, we also gave the only two oxen we
[Column 2]
had left, for the help of the poor, some not rich
also helped in some way, as did all the faithful
saints; but the brethren who served, and needed
most to keep up their strength of course had least
as is, and has been the order of times in all his-
tory. Traitors and spies on every hand; but
prayers with watching, was not at all abated; this
kept up the spirits and faith of the workers the
good spirit being surely with them.
	*	*	*	*	*
	Soon came the official order for the Prophet
Joseph to go with some of his brethren to the
prison at Carthage. The air seemed stifling and
heavy with expecting we knew not what—a
curious feeling. The opaline atmosphere, and
something like I remember to have seen and ex-
perienced after the eclipse of the sun had passed;
while I was walking in some fields, here I felt
was cause; but very different from what I ex-
pected and hoped for, to divert my thoughts; I
felt it well to put in some safe place a few of the
small articles as might be easily carried with us,
knowing too well that the spoiler was not far off.
		*		*		*		*
	The day previous the 24th, of June was the
day the Prophet Joseph and his brethren left the
city for the prison at Carthage. Dr. Levi Richards
said that Governor Ford had promised to parade
the Prophet Joseph before the Carthage Grays;
which he did, up and down the ranks. Dr. Levi
also said that Governor Ford could not raise his
eyes to look Joseph in the face, nor above the
shoestrings of his, Joseph's shoes, the Governor
kept looking with his head down; was it any
wonder that he felt guilty.
	These good men had influence to persuade
these people to leave their wrongs to a good and
just God, who would in His own time and manner
avenge these acts and deeds.
	The previous evening I was thinking of the
events passing, and walking near the cottage
where the ground being soft from the recent rains,
I did not hear until I found myself in the midst
of a number of men, I thought who are these?
what does it mean? then the thump of a heavy
staff as it were, came near, my poor courage be-
gan to wilt as I stood still some one spoke to me,
it seemed a familiar voice, still the shade of the
evening kept me from seeing things around me,
then I soon found these men were friends; the
thumping came from Brother Orson Spencer's
foot; these men were returning from Carthage
prison released on heavy bonds to keep the peace;
(Heaven save the mark) when these men came
away some of the brethren remained with the
Prophet at Carthage prison, some one called out
there is Doctor Richards, who was just nearing
the door of his home about to enter, he turned
round and said hush; hush; this hush was no
idle word, he went in at the door; he was one of
the doomed ones to be shot. Spies were in every
corner of the City, now under martial law.
	That day when what I have named was going
on, I kept looking out from time to time, a dull
silence as I before said. The atmosphere was to
me under the brightness like what I remember to
have seen and felt some mournful time of my
past life.
	The night came I could not sleep so I walked
back and forth, a strange feeling kept with me I
said to myself, what can this be? The brethren
are returned from prison and for the present
danger is averted. Then some of Milton, and
Milman's poems would come to my memory of
the persecution of the Waldenses. But the lines
of Milton especially came to me again and again,
would not leave me for any other.

"O Lord avenge thy slaughtered Saints,
Whose bones lie scattered on the Alpine Mountains cold."

	About 3 o'clock, some one knocked at the door
I opened it, there stood a man but scarcely able
[Column 3]
to speak. I turned to the Doctor who was then
standing by the couch where he had some time
back thrown himself to rest almost tired to death
from the recent journey, he, the Doctor turned
from the door after speaking to the man and
stood with his hands straight down from his sides
clenched, the fingers together, a habit he had
when strongly moved his eyes fairly blazed I felt
strangely almost stunned. I said unthinking you
look as if you could fight, I could he said, not
another word. The Doctor hastily put on his
coat, I also put on some additional wraps and
walked with him to the house of Dr. Willard
Richards.	*	*	When I said the eyes of
Dr. Levi Richards fairly blazed, his eyes were
not very bright, light blue, and after a fever at
twenty years of age had to use glasses continually
when I saw this, I could not speak except as I
did—it made me feel strange as you may suppose,
especially after the usual and ever composed
manner the Doctor had at all times and circum-
stances in which he might be placed; but was it
any wonder, when we look at the strange events
which caused these feelings?
	Dr. Levi Richards was devoted to Joseph as a
friend, not to speak his Joseph’s, divine mis-
sion, having known him so long and enjoyed his
society with the brethren; Joseph I am told used
to call him his own physician; and used him as
such on some special occasions, having proved
his faithfulness and skill in some critical seasons,
as well as in other capacities. Joseph loved him
well as one of his chosen friends, and a follower
of righteousness.
	Then we all know what followed this eventful
day of all days in this dispensation.
		AFTER THE DEATH OF JOSEPH.
	The time you spent with me some weeks since,
if you remember, we were led to refer to some
of the scenes  now long since past in which we as
well as others, were deeply and sadly interested.
	I was trying to describe how things appeared
to me at the eventful time after the Prophet was
brought back from Carthage and the efforts of
those brethren, who had influence to keep back
the indignant people for a little season and quiet
them, so as to await the return of those absent;
but who had been sent for with haste.
	These few, Dr. Willard Richards being the
principal; and who had just returned from the
scene of the murder unhurt except a bit from the
tip of one ear, Judge Phelps another, and Dr.
Levi Richards, and other brethren who only re-
turned from the prison a short time previous
whither he had accompanied Joseph with some
other brethren; but who were released on heavy
bonds to keep the peace.
	I had just left the place where the meeting was
to be; and went with Dr. Levi Richards to view
the body at the Mansion where it lay then in a
rude Casket covered with black velvet. The Dr.
left me to go quickly and help the others as I have
said quiet, so I stood some moments with a fixed
and painful attention; then turned to follow my
husband, but not until I had given once more a
last lingering look at the sacred contents of the
rude casket, as I turned to leave I saw Emma
Smith as she walked back and forth in the court
of the Mansion. She spoke to me and I answered
her; and then continued my way to where the
meeting was to be convened near by.
	Sometime in the August following this and
after Brigham Young and other Apostles had
returned from their missions a meeting was held
in the grove.
	There the meeting was begun, I do not just
remember how as I was not among the people, I
stood on the left side a little in front of  the stand
close beside the crowd and could plainly see the
the then speaker Sidney Rigdon with some others,
standing in a wagon box with backs to the stand.


Sidney was the one speaking then saying among
other things, you must choose a guardian. I
thought is this the eloquent man Sidney Rigdon
of whom I have heard so much? I never hav-
ing heard him speak before.
	I kept listening and again and again heard the
same words, you must choose, yes you must, yes
you must choose etc.,the same monotonous strain
and while listening, I was surprised at the quiet-
ness of the whole congregation in front of the
stand; no sound that indicated that any marked
attention was paid to the speaker's urgent appeal
to choose a guardian.
	During all this time as I stood by my husband,
I could plainly see the long stretch of plank seats
and their occupants.
	I was much surprised at the questioning man-
ner of people in front of the stand the fixed atten-
tion the monotonous one never once made the
least response.
	At this I quite marveled and looking up to my
husband as we were standing just outside the
crowd, I said what does this mean? He turned
to me and said, "It is all right." I looked up to him
and said, I do hope the people will not say yes!
Then I observed him turn still more from the
crowd look down and smile. It then came quickly
to my mind what Sister H. Mar Whitney has re-
refered to in some of her interesting memory
papers; that there had been meetings called to-
gether by the Prophet Joseph where only those of
his trusted friends were admitted (to learn how to
conduct things according to the mind and will of
the Heavenly Father in His Church after his
death) which from all we have since learned he
foresaw, but even his chosen friends and follow-
ers could or would not see as he wished them to,
at that peculiar time.
	Some of these meetings I remember when they
took place but the troublous times with spies on
every hand made us doubly cautious and I never
even asked questions or sought to learn anything
but what was readily communicated although
knowing many things not necessarily spoken of in
those days.
	I tried to be patient and observing. The Doctor
first looking down still smiling then look up to
the stand as if expecting something which of
course we all did, the return of the Elders, return
of those who had been sent for, when in the midst
of this painful suspense, I saw some one spring
up on the stand; with bated breath I saw the tall
figure rise with great dignity, and begin to address
the people, for a little moment I saw something
like a cloud or mantle slip over the person; but
until some minutes I could not think who the per-
son was like but after a little, and other persons
observing some change, I felt I knew not what;
but I felt also that Brigham was somehow
changed taller more portly his voice also, then
when some friends later on named the Prophet, I
saw what all had signified that surely the mantle
of Joseph had fallen upon the shoulders of the
chosen head of the Church.
	This was a sorrowful time, like the season,when
the Savior was gone,and had left as the disciples
feared forever notwithstanding the continued
teachings they had been blessed with to prepare
them for these eventful times. Dark and gloomy
but these people had no time to weep and mourn
as the disciples at Jerusalem but indeed they
would had they followed their natural instincts.
		S. G. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUNT LU'S STORY.

	But it was not altogether smooth sailing,
there were many things to contend with which
you, young folks would not fully understand
in these modern times, during the Winter ses-
sion several large boys were added. Capital
fellows too, for work! they could wield an ax
with unerring stroke upon a log or tree, hold

[Column 2]

a breaking up plough all day, but their appre-
ciation of words, often happened to be ludi-
crously imperfect,—Fancy one of these over-
grown boys reading this scripture about the
rich man in his torment, and he looked up
and saw, Catherears, (Lazarus) in Boston; (in
his bosom) blunders of this kind frequently
occured in the first part of their attendance,
then a suppressed titter would run through the
school which brought reproof as well as
chagrin to the reader. There were some new
books introduced that Winter that brought
hard work for many a young learner. But the
teacher was equal to the occasion giving each
such attention and incentive for action—desire
to learn and understand various subjects that
after awhile it became a delight for even the
dullest among them to study and search out
any subject given for explanation. Our little
Dama with the kind assistance of her teacher,
made rapid progress in her studies, she thought
she had studied before; but now found that she
had but made a beginning she was fully
aroused to the deep importance of application,
close and continued to a thorough understand-
ing of her studies and with diligence prosecuted
her researches after knowledge.
	But I must tell you of the "Merry Christ-
mas," time, for old Winter came on with all
his train of frost and snow,while Dame Autumn
had quietly retired with her dresses of green
and gold. The big boys, searched the woods
the week before for trees and evergreens to
decorate the schoolroom. They placed a fine
spruce tree in each of the four corners and a
large pine in front of the teachers desk on
the platform all were elaborately trimmed with
pop-corn balls, colored egg-shells, paper and
feather flowers, nuts, etc. The gift tree was
gorgeously decorated and all (were more or
less) brilliantly lighted with golden colored
(tallow) candles while three large reflector
lamps were placed on the wall back of the gift
tree giving forth a dazzling effect. The long
narrow tables were temptingly laden with good
things enough for all, and to satisfy the
voracious appetites of even growing boys. But
the presentation of gifts by "Santa Claus," was
too funny for anything! I couldn’t begin to de-
scribe it so I must leave it for your imagina-
tion to supply the deficiency. Robert, however
was the master of ceremonies. To commence
with, the teacher had a tame bear presented
her from one of her big boy pupils. There
were trained dogs, tame squirrels, rabbits,
kittens, guinea fowls and guinea-pigs, white
mice, several kinds of birds among the curious
variety of other things. Dama was the re-
cipient of a beautiful white dove the gift of
Master Henry Hinsdale. The teacher was
well supplied with gifts the black bear, how-
ever was given over to the care and keeping of
Master Henry to his extreme joy and satisfac-
tion. I think the gift most prized by Blanche
was the one from Robert (whose esteem had
been daily increasing) for it showed his appre-
ciation of her love of mental culture. Robert
was not forgotten, nor neither his good mother,
all went home satisfied feeling that they had,
had a jolly happy time, many wishing it could
last forever.
	But nothing lasts forever here! School has
closed for the Summer vacation. Miss Blanche
received an unanimous call to teach another
year which she readily accepted, she had a
comfortable pleasant home at "Alby Lodge,"
and was not required to walk to and from
school in bad weather, Robert was ever def-
erential and respectful towards Blanche. Yet
from his easy manner she knew from the first
that he was heart free, Robert however made
the discovery before the "Merry Christmas"
time that therewas certainly much congeniality
between them.
	One evening the latter part of Summer, as
they were returning from a walk Dama sent

[Column 3]

her white dove fluttering from her hand to-
wards them, repeating in a playful manner
"Let the spirit of love descend with the dove,"
it alighted npon the arm of Robert, conveying
an awakening in heart swift and sudden; and
a glance transient as a meteor, and almost as
bright, directed towards Blanche gave expres-
sion to his new-found joy.—And through
the faintly shadowed air,one pure star trembled
into sight.
	One clear morning in the Autumn following,
Robert started out with dogs and gun for a
grand day's hunt, he had not been gone over
an hour when he returned in haste for his
mother to go back with him to visit some sick
people who were encamped some two miles
distant and who on account of sickness were
unable to follow the train that had preceded
them. The necessary preparation was made
as speedily as possible and in a short time
they were administering to the weary travelers;
many were suffering from chills and fever, and
to Mrs. Alby's surprise and grief she found
among these emigrant pilgrims one whom she
had known and loved as a sister in former
years, and now of the same faith embraced by
herself, one also, whom Blanche had visited
on her journey and in whom, and her family
of young people, she had been greatly in-
terested.
	Everything that spmpathizing hearts and
willing hands could do was done for the suf-
ferers. But who can protray the inexpressibly
sorrowful scene of a mother dying in a wagon-
bed by the roadside, surrounded by her weep-
ing grief-stricken children? she who had en-
dured everything for them—these children of
her love and hope, she must now leave; to turn
away from her grave among strangers,orphaned
indeed to go forth into untried scenes of life,
neglected, forlorn, desolate, nevermore to know
a mother's love and tender protecting care. A
tongue of eloquence and the most brilliant
pen would not be able to recount all the deeds
of loving kindness, and of sweet patient
charity this dying mother had performed, and
not from the hingeless doors of old age must
she enter the dark valley but hewn down by
the cruelty of a merciless foe in the early even-
tide of life's journey.
	And now the wailing cry goes out, in ago-
nizing grief from bleeding wounded hearts
that echo's back through the far-away Eastern
hills into other hearts, to mourn and bewail the
sorrowful scene of a dearly beloved mother's
death by the wayside.
	O, the anguish of that terrible bercavment !
verily we need a Baptism from on high to en-
dure the thought of its crucifying agony,
or partake of its bitter asphaltum draught,—
This is a sorrowful part of my story and I fain
would pass it over, but it is necessary that you
should know something of the "Red Sea" of
trial, this people were made to pass through.
This noble loving mother and her children,
with scores of others were turned out from their
houses,by a ruthless mob, in a pitiless storm of
rain exposed for days upon the river banks,
(until teams could be procured or sent back
to take them away) obliged to lie upon beds
soaked through with the rain storms,blankets,
quilts, all their clothing completely saturated.
Many contracted diseases from which they
could never recover, though they might linger
for years in weakness and pain,—and this
sainted mother, who forgot self, in striving to
protect her children from destruction as well
as from exposure to the pitiless rain-storm,
was a victim quickened to death at the hands
of a murderous mob.
	All this in our own fair land, (Free land, as
it is called) in sight of, and under the flag of
American Liberty which must have appeared
like a hollow mockery to the poor fugitives, as
it had hitherto afforded them no protection or
shelter against the invaders of their homes or


rights as citizens of their own State. They
had been robbed, outraged, beaten, imprisoned,
driven from their peaceful habitations, hunted
down, from place to place from one city of re-
fuge to another, manhood, womanhood nor
feeble infancy or declining age, nay, the help-
less and infirm found no mercy at the hands,
of these Simon-pure Border Ruffian Marauders,
for they deserve no better name; their acts tes-
tify for them.
	Thus a God-fearing peaceful people were
exposed to the tender mercies (the Scripture
tells us, that “even the tender mercies of the
wicked are cruel”) of a band of desperadoes,
brandishing bowie knives, and pistols without
protection or redress, forced to flea from their
own state beyond the waters of Western
Missouri—and on, and on, over barren plains,
through desolate wastes, rocky defiles, and
mountain steeps, into a land inhabited only by
wild beasts and savages; until at last, those
whose lives had been spared rest their weary
feet in a valley surrounded by stupendous
mountain walls builded by the hand of the
Almighty Creator—through which He pro-
claimed by the mouth of His prophet (five
years previous) that this people should enter
and possess. Here these men of piety and
patriotism planted the ensign of Liberty on
the highest mountain top and sent its banners
floating to the breeze, and like Joshua’s legions
who crossed the river Jordan and entered the
precincts of the promised land, they awoke the
silent echoes of the wilderness valley, with
jubilant strains of praise and thanksgiving.

	Many years have passed. Time has changed
places, and faces—events multiply—wild lands
have been reclaimed, towns planted—thorough-
fares opened through desert wastes, waters
spanned, fearful chasms o’erleaped and the
footprint of Providence marks the way un-
heard.
	Let us mount our Pegasus and hasten away
over the white capped mountains to the valley
of sage brush, sands and bitter waters, where
we left a band of noble pioneers—Lo! What
transformation is this? A great city has
sprung up as if by magic? broad streets, tall
trees, clear running streamlets, fountains of
everflowing waters and the glow of happy
homes breaks out upon the snow (this winter’s
night) in dazzling brightness. Verily, verily
the strong arm of Providence has fitted them
to do a work of great magnitude, and to
carry out his purposes here? I would like to
keep you a little longer viewing this lovely
valley of peace and plenty, for now the rich,
softened by prosperity, pity and care for the
poor, and the poor respect the rich, while the
lame, blind, aged and infirm, repose in hospitals
or are cared for by tender ministrations and
justice is dispensed to all.
	But I hear the glad voices of children and
busy feet of all ages are hurrying onward let
us follow them to their gathering place, the
Assembly Rooms for it is Christmas night,
and a “merry making,” joyful time is antici-
pated. Let us stand here and watch the faces
as they enter and pass to and fro, perchance
we may find some we knew of old. Here is
the President in the full vigor of life’s man-
hood, a fine looking man too he is indeed,
(Brigham Young.) How happy and full of
gladness all appear! men, women, and children.
It is really heart-cheering to stand apart and
look upon their faces as they glow with en-
thusiasm when greeting each other and in con-
versation.
	But now you who have traveled with me
thus far, mast not be disappointed about the
dear ones we have seen on the way for if we
are on the lookout, we shall surely find most of
them among these group’s of handsome happy
people.—We have passed through some trying
scenes indeed—hard to witness, but life is not
[Column 2]
all sorrowful and this beautiful night’s scene,
will more than repay for the trouble we have
taken in following the fortunes of this now
prosperous people, whose cup of bitterness has
been sweetened and tide of oppression turned
from them, at least for a season,—but we will
not anticipate evil, we see smiling faces all
around and peaceful contented joy reigns
supreme on every side,—many, of that first
noble band of pioneers are among the throngs
here gathered, and many who came after from
distant parts of the earth, we would like to
greet on this “happy occasion,” as brethren
and sisters of one family. But here comes
Bishop Alby, with his accomplished wife
Blanche and the mother with a nice pleasant
looking gentleman. Ah, she is married again
and does not look a day older than when she
stood in the door at “Alby Lodge” to welcome
Blanche on her first arrival. But little Dama
the “blue-eyed maiden,” where is she? Why
there she is, running races with the little ones!
see she has one darling bright-faced boy of
her own, she calls him Henry, for his father,
and there he is stooping to kiss and caress his
precious boy. I suppose you would like me
to tell you some romantic story of how their
union was brought about after she took up
the vocation of teacher. I can only tell you
that her school boy lover, is now her devoted
affectionate husband, that the white dove of
peace broods in their hearts and home, that
Brother Hinsdale, is as liable to be sent dele-
gate to Congress as any other, for he is not
only a scholar, but held in high estimation by
all who have the pleasure to know him.—
Dama through ornaments worn upon her per-
son, gifts from her mother was one evening
recognized by the dear friends from whom she
was so deceitfully and cruelly taken by her
false-hearted uncle; I cannot tell you all the
delightful happiness this discovery mutually
gave them. Long they had mourned her as
dead, for they had written to the school her
uncle said she was to attend, and received in
reply “that she had never been there” then,
hearing of his crime for which he was trans-
ported, they gave up all hope of seeing her
on earth. How strange and mysterious are the
ways of Providence? and what a tangled web
of events time often unravels! Dama has
made the acquaintance and formed a deep
friendship for the once deceived woman who
married her uncle, she is now carrying on an
animated conversation with some of Zion’s
fair daughters, she is tall, elegant and grace-
ful in form and appearance,—much like the
sweet lady at her side who is called, “Sister
Eliza” (a writer and poet of high order,) and
here we may find the children of martyred
parents, grown now with young families, like
olive branches around them. Here too, in this
beautiful valley, this‘Gem’ set in a circle of
granite, the fair daughters of a sainted mother
(whose death by the wayside will ever remain
a sad memory) have married, and are now
rearing families to love and care for, while the
youngest her idolized boy, has gone to try his
fortune in California.
	But I cannot leave until I point out the
Mayor of the City. They are all so engaged
among themselves, having such, glorious times
they wont mind our playing “Paul Pry.”—
There he is, see how eager men, women and
children press round to greet him. And how
kindly and affectionately he meets the people
one and all.
	There are Mary’s and Martha’s and Hannah’s
Elizabeth’s and Louisa’s and Susan’s, and a
host of beautiful women, and children, with
sweet cherub faces, that all must admire, and
for ourselves we cannot resist a feeling of
rapturous delight while gazing upon this lovely
panorama of human beauty—of happy fathers
nud mothers with their boys and girls of
promise and blessing.
[Column 3]
	I must call your particular attention to one
little bevy of girl blossoms, almost in the center
of the picture, clustering round a sparkling
vivacious pleasing little lady, can it be that she
is their mother? It almost makes heart and
brain stand still, as time points backward to
the little child I led by the hand in my rambles
over hill, and dell, through wood, field and
meadow, and called the sweet pet name of
“Rosabel.” She disappeared one day with
another, and I called unto her in vain to re-
turn. And now, can it be! she is here in that
mother?—
	Bright-eyed little folks! kind patient ones,
all, who have traveled with me so long over
the rough and smooth paths of life ’mid mirth
dance and song, I must bid you good bye,
and leave you to enjoy the Merry Holidays.
						MINERVA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPOTR.

			EMERY STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, convened at Orange-
ville, Oct. 17, 1890. Counselor Annie Pulsifer
presiding. Choir sang, prayer by Brother E.
Curtis, singing, Counselor Pulsifer made a
few opening remarks and regreted our beloved
President Anna Larsen could not be with us
her health would not permit, but desired we
would have an interesting time, as she felt
the Spirit of the Lord to be with us; the
Satistical reports were read and accepted, the
Representatives of each ward were called to
report. President Robinson of Orangeville
felt well in her labors with her sisters, attended
Conference in Salt Lake City and felt amply
repaid. The feast of spiritual food she re-
cieved gave her strength to go forward in try-
ing to perform the many duties devolving up-
on her. Counselor Hannah Seeley reported
the Castle Dale ward, said the sisters were
trying to attend to their duties spiritually and
financially the meetings were tolerably well
attended (but of course it could be better).
Sister Jane Woodward of Huntington said the
sisters were on hand and willing to go forward
in helping in this great work. We live in an
eventful period of time and should be united
and help to bear each others burdens, prayed
for the Lord to give us strength to do right.
Ferron, Molen and Emery wards were not rep-
resented. Counselor Pulsifer gave some
interesting instructions exhorting the sisters
to attend to their spiritual duties spoke of the
trials the Saints had gone through and were
now passing through, refered to the Manifesto
that President Woodruff had issued, spoke
very interestingly. Sister Sarah Fullmer also
refered to the Manifesto and found it already
was trying some people, no matter what men
or nations may do, she knew that law was
from God. we should stand firm and hold on
to the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Sister Jane Peterson of Castle Dale felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, had been in
this Church many years; even in Nauvoo with
the saints, quoted many sayings of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of truth and
righteousness, spoke very interestingly on
other subjects. Sisters J. P. Curtis and J.
Johnson each bore their testimony and spoke
well, Counselor Andrew Anderson of Orange-
ville addressed the conference a short time.
Choir sang “Do what is right.” Adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon services. Singing “O God our
help.” Prayer by Bishop Robinson of Orange-
ville. Singing “Hark ye mortals.” Coun-
A Pulsifer spoke very encouragiugly to the
sisters on different subjects. President Cheney
of Y. L. M. I. Association made a few remarks
and Bishop Robinson of Orangeville occupied


a short time speaking interestingly, thought
one great failing we had was ingratitude
Paul may plant and Apollus water, but God
givith the increase. We were in possession
of all truths if we would give them heed, and
those truths would lead us to an exaltation in
the kingdom of God, if we would only follow
the path marked out for us. Sister Reid felt
to encourage the sisters in this great and good
work, had attended Salt Lake City conference
and felt greatly built up in her faith and to
go forward in every duty. Sister E. Guyman
also spoke well and felt encouraged to perform
the work required of her, ask an interest in
the prayers of all and strive to speak evil of
no one. Other sisters spoke and the remainder
of the afternoon was given to the W.S.A. to
transact some business. President S- Fulmer
addressed the meeting in a spirited manner
urging the sisters to read and strive to gain all
imformation necessary for the advancment of
our cause. Several joined and one officer
elected. Meettng appointed for Nov. 10th.
Conference adjourned for six months.
				M. J. SHIPP, Sec. protem.
				ANNIE U. LARSEN, Pres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mas. Elizabeth Cady Stanton writes from
abroad that she does not expect to return to
this country before next June.

	The Youth’s Companion will give, during
the coming year, four practical, helpful articles
on what a girl of sixteen years can do when
thrown upon her own resources, by Mrs. Mary
A. Livermore, “Jenny June,” “Marion
Harland,” and Mrs Amelia E. Barr.

	The annual fair and flower sale of the
Beneficent Society of the New England
Conservatory of Music was held Nov. 6, in the
conservatory parlors. In the evening a fine
concert was given in Sleeper Hall. This
society loans to needy but talented pupils funds
with which to pursue their musical education.
Contributions are solicited from friends and
members of the society.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[Adopted by the Officers and members of the Twenty-first
Ward Relief Society.]	
	To the memory of the late Mrs. Rachel Seamen, who
departed this life Sep. 28th 1890.

	Whereas it hath pleased our Heavenly Father to call to
himself our esteemed friend and co-laborer Sister Rachel
Seamen, we the officers and members of this Society feel it
a duty incumbent upon us, to express our appreciation,
and sympathy with the bereaved family, friends and rela-
tives especially the orphan grandchildren of our dear sister,
whose brief illness and sudden death has so shocked us;
Be it therefore
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister Seamen our Society
has lost one of its most reliable and unwearied teachers
whose long term of service has been distinguished by
modesty and earnestness in the interest of the sick and
needy: Be it furthermore
	Resolved,—That we her fellow-laborers will ever strive
to emulate her example, that when our summons comes we
may be able to say with her “I have done my work:”
And also
	Resolved, That these resolutions be entered on the Sec-
retary’s book and a copy of them published in the WO-
MAN’S Exponent.
	Signed in behalf of the Society by
							A. O. Burt, Pres.
							K. Mathews, Sec.


ANOTHER LOVED ONE GONE.

	Onr dearly beloved friend and sister Jane Picton died at
her daughter’s residence in Nephi Sep. 13th 1890, her
disease was dropsy. She was bom June the 9th 1821,
Herefordshire, England, was baptized and confirmed a
member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


in Sep. 1842, emigrated with her husband to Utah in 1853,
leaving all to east her lot with the people of God. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, she leaves
four daughters and seventeen grandchildren. Her husband
Elder James Picton died the 6th of May last, and thus they
have left us to be united on the other side of the vail.
	When our Relief Society was organized June 23, 1868
she was called and chosen to the office of Second Coun.
to Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough, which position she filled
with great satisfaction to the sisters in the Association.
When Sister Goldsbrough was called to preside over the
Stake organization 1878, Sister Picton was again chosen as
Second Coun. which position she held until the death of
Sister Goldsbrough. She was ever kind and considerate,
a wise, and judicious counselor, a friend to the needy, a
comforter in the hour of trial, and a firm believer in the
Gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She died as she had lived, beloved by all who had the
pleasure of her acquaintance.

	Farewell my dear old faithful friend,
		'Till we shall meet again;
	Where pain and sorrow never come
		And joy shall never end.

	Though loved ones dear remaining here
		Do mourn now thou art gone,
	We’ll check the tear, nor dare to fear,
		We still in Christ are one.
								M. PITCHFORTH.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased God our Heavenly Father to
release by death from her sufferings our beloved Sister Jane
Picton.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we recognize in the death
of our sister, the loss of a wise counselor and co-laborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, together with her life’s labors
of love in her family and among her many friends as worthy
of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heart felt sympathy to the
family or the deceased, and with them acknowledge the
band of God in our bereavement, and strive to emulate
her noble example. 		
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the Relief
Society Record and also be forwarded to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
						AMY L. BIGLER,
						ASENATH R. GROVER,
						HANNAH JONES,
										Committee.


OBITUARIES

	One year ago on the 18th day of October ult. we were
called to part by the hand of death with one of our dear
friends Sister Cecelia Mortensen, beloved wife of N. W.
Mortensen and daughter of Hans and Mary Schow of this
place, who in the prime of her life was taken from her dear
little family of five children which was very hard for her
especially to leave her dear baby Aaron, one of the
sweetest liltle boys that ever came to earth, noble to look
upon. And now we are called again to mourn for the loss
of our little boy Aaron; who left us the 4th day of Oct.
1890, to join his dear mother after gaining the affections of
all who knew him, at the age of 2 years 3 months and 8
days.
	May our Father comfort the afflicted ones.

		For we know our little one needs no tender care
		For all are safe, and happy there.
		We would not call him back again,
		Our loss is his eternal gain;
		His short bright race on earth is run,
		We weep, but say God’s will be done.

	Scandinavian papers please copy.
										E. B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co, Utah.

	It has pleased God to take from us Sister Fanny Wilde
the beloved wife of Thomas Wilde of Coalville City, Sum-
mit Co. Utah, who departed this life Aug, 18th '90.
	Deceased was born in Middlesex County, England in
1846, and with her parents William and Emma Gunn came
to this country in '57; has resided at Coalville and Hoyts-
ville since '64; was married to Brother Thomas Wild in ’65;
was the mother of fourteen children, and all but the


youngest, a baby girl three weeks old, survive her. Th
little one died about two hours before its mother, and they
were buried together in the Coalville cemetery.
	The funeral was attended by a large concourse of rel
tives and friends. Deceased was for years, a teacher in the
Relief Society and was always a friend to the poor and sick.
Her demise is lamented by her husband, family and friends
she suffered with Bright's disease for about three months
and finally sank to rest.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint; died in full faith of
the Gospel, and awaits the Resurrection Morn.
		ISABELLA HODSON.


Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINICIPAL POINTS
	EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of 
		DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
				112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
