VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1891.	NO. 24.


CONTENTS.

	Woman as Wife, Mother and Friend—Julia A.
Farnsworth. A Talk With Mothers—Isabella P.
Price. World's Columbian Exposition—Frances
Dickenson, Sec. Notes and News. University
of Deseret. Jottings—Minnie B. Jones. Miscel-
laneous. R. S. Reports—Deseret—Emery—Utah
Wasatch. Women as Police Matrons—Lillie
Devereux Blake. Address —Bertha Honore
Palmer. Items From Overton—Kate.
	Editorial:—Which Party Will Recognize
Women? Editorial Notes. Woman's Vote—
Mary Ann M. Pratt. In Mexico—S. T. Boice.
Poetry:—Among The Graves—L. M. Hew
lings. In Memoriam—Josephine Spencer. My
Love—Clara M. Saunders. A Mother's Wish—
Ruby Lamont. Lines—Ruth M. Fox.


AMONG THE GRAVES.

To-day I've walked among the graves,
	Rambled at will 'mid the dead,
Far o'er many a battle field,
	Where noble heroes fought and bled,
From broad Atlantic's rolling waves,
	To western slopes of setting sun.
From North to South these countless graves,
	Are now flower-enwreathed as one.
Silent they sleep beneath the sod.
	Ne'er more at roll-call will they come,
Hearts that beat true with freedom's fire,
	Are stilled, and lips for aye are dumb.
Our husbands, brothers, lovers, sons,
	True to their country's call went forth,
Thousands in grand communion poured,
	Their life-blood out upon the earth,
Think at what cost we roam in peace,
	O'er this broad land from sea to sea,
Beneath the starry banner's folds,
	Emblem of human liberty.
We flower wreath our country's flag
	And o'er the dearly blood-bought sod,
We strew them unrestrained and free,
	Where'er the foot of man hath trod.
Priceless blossoms of memory,
	With never dying wreath entwine,
Whose fragrance shall forever breathe,
	Adown the corridors of time.

				L. M. HEWLINGS.
Memorial Day, Atchison Kan.


IN MEMORIAM.

TO LUCY COBB IVINS.

Sore are those hearts which death's cold hand hath swept—
And yet not lost is that young life whose steps
Halted abruptly by the beaten way,
Leaving life's dusty labyrinths to stray
In paths lit by the beams of endless morn.
The soul in seeming from life's current borne
Hath ceased not from the rounds of effort, made
For life's best glory. In her hands hath stayed
The selfsame task earth held before her sight;—
And where she wrought in darkness now is light,
The law of compensation makes complete
All that seems waste or void, and she shall meet
Her life's appointed mission in some sphere
That yields a better vantage. She shall clear
From lives best loved on earth whatever cloud
Of sorrow or of evil yet may shroud
Through the long years of parting she shall keep
A ceaseless vigil—not for those who sleep—
Friends long since passed, nor for the alien dead,
Themselves redeemed from all life's doubt and dread—
But for the living kindred she shall bear
A sacred mission: given to her care


These hearts sore wounded,—they shall know in hours
Of sorrow and temptation, subtle powers
Playing upon their being's finer keys,
And waking chords of hidden harmonies;—
Invisible white fingers o'er each heart
Holding its thought from grief and sin apart.
Dim shores shall beckon holding one so loved—
And loss is gain when stricken hearts have proved
The problem that woos careless thoughts from earth
And given this first victory by the death
Of her sweet presence—faithfully she strives
To gather up the threads of those dear lives
Left desolate, and weave them into woof
Of perfect texture—as an endless proof
Of her life's rounded stature. In her hands
Ceaseless and patient ply the colored strands.
And whether faded with past years ef loss—
Worn thin, or broken by earth's daily cross—
Are taken up —and through the grace divine
Of love, and the meek ministries of prayer, shall twine
In harmony of being when at last
Life's jar and tumult are forever past.-JOSEPHlNE SPENCER.


[Column 1]

WOMAN AS WIFE, MOTHER AND
FRIEND.

	[An Address given by Julia A. Farnsworth
at the Commencement Exercises of the B. Y.
Academy, Provo City, May 22nd, 1891.]
	Yes, she is all this and far more, when she
occupies her true position, and fulfils her
destiny as God designed her to. Friends and
Fellow students: She is the capable guardian
of her sons and daughters, the safest, ablest
adviser and companion of her husband, the
competent instructor of her children, the liberal
giver of charities, and the sympathetie friend
of the sorrowing. She is the architect of house-
hold comfort, and the preserver of all that pro-
motes domestic sanctity and love, combined
with ever lasting confidence and success in the
home circle.
	The husband or father can build, or plan
the erection of cottage or mansion, but he can
never make its interior what it should be with-
out the co-operation of Wife, Mother or Friend.
God made man and woman equal; He
endowed them both similarly, yet there is a
great diversity in their organizations; one is
incomplete without the other. No home, nation
or community is what it should be, unless the
united influence and intelligence of both are
there. Man's and woman's strength, wisdom,
refinement and purity are requisite to the
vitality and advancement of society through
every walk in life. In educational circles,
woman is necessary; in religion she is constant;
in art and science gaining eminence; in poetry
and music she is capable; in ancient and
modern history she is conversant; in fact, there
is no place in civilization in which she is not
an able support, and wise assistant, when al-
lowed equal advantages with her brother.
	She gives tone to music in church; life and
beauty in the ball room; modesty and order on
the rail road or steamboat; reverential culture
on religious topics, modulation and heartfelt
thoughts when temperate or moral subjects
are introduced; patience and charity for the
faults of boys, or transgressions of way-ward
sons.
	Mothers never forget to pray, and teach
their children the power of the same. From
homes properly regulated, where order and
affectionate discipline are found, where father
and mother are one in principle, in faith, and
in integrity; here will our nation find her

[Column 2]

grandest statesmen, purest patriots, and
worthiest representatives of honesty, virtue
and truth. Nurtured by mothers, who regard
goodness of character and purity of soul as
intrinsic in value, as superior to all else com-
bined, here will our noblest heroes and most
honorable manhood find congenial soil.
Colleges and seminaries give finish, but home
culture, mothers and sisters influence—make,
mould, and firmly implant that which time or
distance can never efface. 'Tis here that life
and vigor is given to every good act and
thought, where, in childhood, every wrong or
improper tendency is firmly yet unhesitantingly
eradicated.
	A mother who is a good, wise and intelli-
gent woman may rest assured of an inheritance
in heaven and an acknowledgement of her
labors having been accepted in the great
Beyond, though in this life she may carry her
cross in seclusion, unaided by all except He
who watches over, and sees our every act.
	Young Ladies: We to-day hold a great deal
of power (although we are not allowed to vote
even if we were old enough). We are the
ones who shall make or mar the conduct, the
dsportment, the condition to be, in this organi-
zation, called the students of the B. Y. A.
One will exclaim! "But they are not all
ladies." I know this, but in school as at home
in religious, social and civil society, girls hold
or have an equal position with their brothers
in maintaining order and discipline. With
them to a greater degree, the character the
status of good breeding, intellectual culture
and refined dignity is held, the moral purity
and high standard of society depends more
largely on us, than our stronger brothers.
Young men who are true at heart, honest in
purpose, will seldom, if ever frequent places of
bad repute such as gambling or drinking halls,
if young ladies with whom they associate and
respect, discountenance, and in plain terms
disapprove these things, and by their decided
actions, show they will not tolerate and will
positively discard them as friends in the future
unless these practices are at once abandoned
forever. Therefore, girls let us prove ourselves
worthy of the trust and esteem of each other;
and of the high and noble calling our Eternal
Father intends us for. Our mission in life is
very important, and our advantages, legal
social and religious many.
	I will now close, but will tell my associates,
boys and girls, I love you dearly, and hope we
are friends that may always continue true.
God bless and protect our Professors and
Teachers. Fellow students, as we are on the
eve of a separation; some of us go to homes
at a distance, I trust we may all in future
prove worthy of the good instructions and
noble examples laid down for our benefit,
during the passed, short, pleasant school year.
May we be preserved and again reunited in-
the circle of a students association, when the
time shall have past for our vacation
Heaven help us to ever do and act aright,
thereby gain the good wishes and kind re
gards of all just people, is my sincere prayer


A TALK WITH MOTHERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While on a visit some time ago among some
friends, the conversation turned on the rearing


[Column 1]﻿

of children. We believe that children ought
to be taught to honor and obey their parents
in all things; that is right, but never try to
make them fear those whom they should love,
honor and obey; we think love will come
spontaneous if there is any in them. We
think its the duty of a mother in Israel to look
after the spiritual as well as the temporal de-
velopment of her children and to impress upon
their youthful minds the importance and
virtue of Gospel truths as well as their other
duties. We think the most satisfactory way
of training them is, as soon as they can under-
stand, to teach them the laws of God and
nature, and the punishment for breaking those
laws; to be tempered with wisdom and love
and not by passion or cruelty; it is a much better
way to wait till passion is over before correct-
ing a child: we shall this way gain more rev-
erence and respect from them; parents must
know, or ought to, that they in their sphere
of action with the knowledge they have, are no
more perfect than their children are in theirs.
Parents need to be blest with a great deal of
patience and forbearance; mine were quite
strict but kind; we were not all our parents
desired we should be through our hoydenish
ways; we lived in a rural district and as soon
as spring came around, we must be off to the
woods to gather wild-woodland flowers, daffi-
dills, blue bells and other wild flowers, this of
itself vexed them, the writer thinks now that
there was a great deal of the Puritan stock in
them.
	Oh! those were Elysian days to the writer,
never to be forgotten; we should like to see
more of the qualities,kindness and forbearance
exhibited among some that call themselves
Latter-day Saints, towards their children, we
have seen children that were raised with
tyrannical parents, they have left home and
broke away from all parental restraint to pur-
sue a course of independent wickedness.
	What kind of homes are those where there
are no smiles of welcome, or encouragement,
homes of this kind may be habitations but
never home as homes should be. For one to
believe there is no place like home is a whole-
some partiality, but to laugh and scorn another
person's home is wrong and unbecoming, be-
cause it is not as one's own; no one need dis-
pair of having a good home of their own,
while there are so many rich blessings all
around us and if not, there are other blessings
that the humblest may find, yea the plainest
dwelling may become a paradise when adorned
with the treasures of peace and contentment in
them; these treasures are better than granduer
or gold a thousand fold,the writer knows this
is so.
	There was another matter spoken upon and
that was most of mothers or those that act in
the place of mothers, on mock or false delicacy
towards their daughters; we know a mother's
conduct ought to be exemplary at all times
before her children, but we think it best for
her to gain the confidence of daughters as they
grow up to womanhood, so that they will
come to her with their troubles, trials and
the pleasures of their youthful lives, if mothers
are so sensitive that they cannot teach their
daughters the laws of nature concerning them-
selves they ought not by any means to be left
to learn those things from their companions;
they may be led astray, as we have known
some to be, who have sought information this
way concerning themselves, that their own
mothers ought to have imparted unto them.
Those mothers that feel so very sensitive about
giving their daughters proper information con-
cerning the laws of nature ought to buy good
and proper books, that treat on those laws and
place them where their daughters will be sure
to find them, my word for it, it will come out
right, I have tried it. Mothers or those that
stand in the place of them, ought not if pos-

[Column 2]

sible to prevent it, to allow their daughters to
go into homes of their own without a pretty
good domestic education as well as a collegiate
one if they can obtain one; and not forgetting
at the same time to teach them the simple
laws of health, so that they may be prepared
in some degree to meet with sickness and those 
natural consequences which are part of every
woman's mission, and which inevitably comes
to every household; and above all let us teach
our sons and daughters to be virtuous and
chaste in their lives, some think girls ought to
have those properties more firmly established
than boys, I think differently, if our boys have
those qualities well cultivated there will not
be many girls lacking in virtue or chastity; and
let young men speak of all young women as
they would like to hear them speak of their
sisters; and the result would be a better state
of society, if mothers are too sensitive to teach
them the laws of chastity their fathers can, and
if not they can read themselves the sermons
of President Cannon and other Church
authorities that have been given from time to
time, they are very plain and forcible none
need go astray for lack of teaching, all may
maintain purity of character that will seek
help from their Father in heaven. Much
more might be said on this subject. Your
sister in the Gospel.
			ISABELLA P. PRICE.
	Mill Creek, June 3, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION.

			CHICAGO, May 19, 1891.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
		My Dear Madam:—
	Inclosed you will find your commission from
the Isabella Association, instructions in the
order to be followed, and a map of your con-
gressional District.
					Very truly,
			Frances Dickenson, Secretary.
DUTIES OF A VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE QUEEN
ISABELLA ASSOCIATION WITHIN THE
UNITED STATES.
	1. To ascertain the number of polling dis-
tricts within her Congressional District and
forward the same to national headquarters.
	NOTE: Every County Clerk keeps a record
of the number of polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts are known as
townships, wards, parishes and precincts. In
some of the large cities the boundaries of the
polling districts are to be found in the office
of the Election Commissioner, printed in
pamphlet form or outlined on maps. These
political divisions are chosen to avoid over-
lapping of efforts. We believe this to be the
most systematic and economical method of
national organization for women in the interest
of any undertaking.
	2. To select four women within her district
who, with herself as Chairman, shall form the
Congressional Directory.
	3. To forward the names and addresses of
these officers with membership fees to national
headquarters that each may receive her com-
mission.
	4. To send a statement monthly to the
national headquarters of the progress of the
work in her district.
	NOTE: Membership certificates in books of
ten will be sent to the Vice-President on the
receipt of eight dollars; thus allowing twenty
per cent of the membership fees for the ex-
penses of the Congressional work.
	5. To countersign the commissions issued to
each Congressional Director, Enrollment Secre-
tary and members of the enrollment com-
mittee showing the official position of each.

[Column 2]

	6. To represent her Congressional District
during the sessions of the Isabella Congress.
	NOTE: The Congress Hall will be furnished
with a desk for each Congressional District and
foreign country represented in the membership
of the Association. The best thought within
each district is desired on every social and in-
dustrial problem on the program. For this
reason proxies will be allowed when in the
judgment of the Vice-President any question
can be better discussed by some other member
of her district.
DUTIES OF THE CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY.
	1. To select one woman in each polling dis-
trict to act as the Enrollment Secretary of the
Association.
	2. To send name and address of each En-
rollment Secretary with membership fee to
headquarters that she may receive her commis-
sion.
	3. To keep a record book with at least one
page devoted to each polling district and head-
ed with a map of said district showing its
boundary; the name and address of Enroll-
ment Secretary and the other members of the
enrollment committee and any other informa-
tion that may be needed from time to time.
DUTIES OF ENROLLMENT SECRETARY.
	1. To select four women within her polling
district who, with herself as Chairman, shall
form the Enrollment Committee of her dis-
strict.
	2. To forward the names and addresses of
these women with membership fees of the Vice-
President of the Association in her Con-
gressional District that each may receive her
commission,
	3. To report progress at least once a month
to the Vice-President.
DUTIES OF EACH ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE.
	1. To ascertain the names and addresses of
all women now members of the Association
within their district; to obtain more members
and to keep in a book this record of member-
ship within their polling district.
	2. To oganize one or more Queen Isabella
Circles to awaken an interest in the Columbian
Exposition of 1893; and especially to further
the objects of the Queen Isabella Association
in any way that may seem best and is en-
dorsed by the Vice-President.
	NOTE: In view of the growing intimacy of
our country with Mexico and South America,
the study of Spanish American history and
literature will prove beneficial and profitable.
The Lecture Bureau of the Association will
recommend when desired, lectures on World's
Fair topics.
	3. To establish an Enrollment headquarters
where the literature of the Association can be
found and where the written ballot of the
members can be deposited on any question, and
after the Fair on the disposal of the assets of
the Assocaition; the name, election of officers
and other questions concerning the coutinu-
ance of the Association.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The population of Alaska, as per corrected
returns, is 30,000.
	The cap and gown are paraphernalia
usually foreign to a Yale student, but this
year the graduating class will don that garb.
	Mrs. Jennie C. Croly, "Jennie June," has
been made honorary president for life of
Sorosis.
	Mrs. Nellie Blessing Eyster, president of the
Woman's Press Association of the Pacific
Coast, is a grand-niece of Barbara Frietchie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LOVE.

BY CLARA M. SAUNDERS.

How do I love you? So well that your voice,
Tenderly accented, makes me rejoice;
Causes a dark, dreary day to look bright;
Floods all my being with waves of delight.

How do I love you? So well that your face,
Thoughtful, and earnest, and calm, has a place
Down in the depths, dearest one, of my heart,
Plainly engraven, to never depart.

Love you so fondly, so truly, so deep,
That a cold word makes me tremble and weep,
Love you so well that I see not your guile,
Basking content, in the light of your smile.

How do I love you? So well that my soul
Bows to the mandate of love's sweet control,
Feeling that ever your pain is my pain,
Your loss is my loss, and your gain my gain.

Love you so much that, if fallen quite low,
Swift to your side I would hasten and go,
Striving to raise you again to the height
Where you were noble and grand in my sight.

How do I love you? Our Father above
Only can measure the depth of my love;
Only His wisdom can e'er comprehend
What are my feelings toward you, oh! my friend.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	A MOTHER'S WISH.

I am thinking tonight of the future,
	Of a time that will soon be our own,
When the trials of life shall have ended
	And we'll live in God's sunlight alone.

When around us will be all the glory
	We've dreamed of and prayed for so long,
And within us will live all the gladness
	That falls upon God's holy throng.

And I think how we'll look upon earth-life,
	Its sickness, its troubles, its cares,
Thanking God if its aim were successful
	That we fell not within its deep snares.

How with sorrow we'll look upon weakness,
	How regretfully think upon wrong,
How with gladness we'll view acts of meekness
	And know how by pain we grew strong.

Will we weep that in sadness we bore them.
	Our darlings, our innocent lambs,
With a world full of darkness before them
	To be grasped by their dear, trusting hands?

Oh how with devoutest emotion,
	Will we thank the great Father of Love,
If united with us in devotion,
	We may clasp our dear children above.

Father grant that Thy glory and goodness
	May dwell in their hearts to the end,
Let Thy grace and Thy care be sufficient,
	Let Thy spirit be ever their Friend.

And as life, with its struggles advances,
	Oh, strengthen their hearts for the fray,
May Thy spirit which all good enhances,
	Give them strength and desire for their day!

Oh. how lovely will then be that future,
	That day of bright sunlight alone,
When united, in God's happy kingdom,
	We call the Eternal our own.

		RUBY LAMONT.


LINES.

	[Written to Sister Mary E. Kimball, on the presentation
of Whitney's Poems by the Fourteenth Ward Primary As-
sociation.]

Best of love and kindly greeting
	We the primary children bring
To our venerated sister,
	Also this, our offering.


Just a token of affection
	Which we hope will please you well,
And awake sweet recollections
	When its lines your heart shall swell.

If at any time with rudeness 
	We your gentle spirit grieve,
Or with thoughtless words or actions,
	We would ask you to forgive;
We appreciate your kindness 
	All your counsels fain would keep,
And we'll ask our God to bless you
	In our prayers before we sleep.

And we'll thank Him for His blessings,
	For such teachers, good and true,
That have set such grand examples
	For we, little folks as you,
For we know you have had trials,
	Drank from sorrow's bitter cup,
Oh may we have strength to clamber
	The rugged path you've traveled up.

May our Father guard and keep you,
	And your life may He prolong
Many years to teach true wisdom
	To the glad primary throng;
And when your earthly work is finished.
	And your Father calls you home
To rejoin your honored husband
	And to share with him his throne—

May it be our lot to meet you
	Sometime in that sunny land,
May we so live by your teachings
	We may swell the heavenly band;
Joy indeed shall crown your efforts,
	Mutual joy for us 'twill be;
Should you meet beyond death's portals
	Members of the Primary.

		Composed and read by RUTH M. FOX.
March 26th, 1891.


UNIVERSITY OF DESERET.

	The Annual Circular of the University of
Deseret for 1891—92 shows that the institu-
tion is at present in a prosperous condition.
The building is now more complete and com-
modious than at any other time in the past,
and the separate large and handsome structure
on the same grounds for the instruction of deaf
mutes, gives much larger opportunity to that
class of students, to whom special attention is
being paid, not only in studies, common and
higher branches, but in industrial pursuits
likewise,suitable for both boys and girls.
	The Territorial Fair of 1890 awarded a
diploma to the department of display of wood-
work by the boys, and a silver medal for the
sewing and fancy work done by the girls.
	The University itself was established early
in the history of this Territory, Feb. 1850, less
than three years after the arrival of the
pioneers. The first meeting of the Board of
Regents was on the 13th of March, 1850—pre-
sided over by Chancellor Orson Spencer.
	The names of the Faculty, Instructors, and
Officers represent men of ability, superior edu-
cation, attainments and influence and are a
guarantee for the excellence of the institution
in all its departments. Dr. John R. Park, the
President, has been connected with the Uni-
versity for a great number of years, and under
his management it has progressed wonderfully,
especially considering the financial struggles it
has gone through.
	There is not we believe a better school of its
kind West of the Rocky Mountains. From
the Normal department it has sent out its
teachers year after year to all parts of the
Territory. The very best teachers of languages
are always employed, as also in music,the law,
military science, and tactics, etc.
	The Museum is a valuable acquisition and
is well supplied for practical school purposes
and studies in the sciences. The Library and
Reading-room is another important feature of


the school. There are nearly ten thousand
volumes of standard and miscellaneous books,
and the reading room has regularly more than
seventy newspapers and periodicals. In look-
ing over the Annual there seems to be nothing
lacking; there is an art gallery, chemical
laboratory, in short everything desirable, and
a credit as a seat of learning that any State
might be proud to own.


JOTTINGS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Seeing in your last issue that the first of
June was to be celebrated as "children's day,"
I thought it would not be amiss to write a few
lines on the subject as we did not have any
May celebration; the officers of the Y. L. M.
I. Association concluded it would be good to
celebrate the birthday of President Brigham
Young, which we carried out accordingly,
and we had a very pleasant time. A short
programme was rendered, then dancing, and
ice cream was served which a couple of the
young ladies made themselves, while others
prepared the cake. I think the children all
enjoyed the day as well as the older ones.
We also have a Relief Society here which is
in good working order. We have no poor
amongst us, but we are not idle. It is not long
since we had a call made by the Stake Pres.
for offerings to the Deseret Hospital, which was
promptly responded to by the liberal donations
of bedding and other useful and needed articles.
We are very scattered for a distance of three
miles along Price River, at the north end of
Castle Valley; but we are not cut off from
the outside world entirely, for the railway
trains pass by our very doors several times
through the day.
	Hoping the time is not far distant when
some of the Sisters from head quarters will
pay us a visit, that we may receive instruc-
tions from the fountain head which I miss very
much since coming out to the new country.
It is quite a change from being in Provo but
we can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord wherever
we are. With kind regards to all the Sisters,
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		MINNIE B. JONES.
	Spring Glen, near Price, June 8th, 1891.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Happiness is like the statues of Isis, whose
vail no mortal ever raised.—Landon.
	The lightsome countenance of a friend
giveth such an inward decking to the house
where it lodgeth as proudest palaces have
cause to envy the gilding.—Sir P. Sidney.
	One principal point of good breeding is to
suit our behavior to the three several degrees
of men—our superiors, our equals, and those
below us.—Swift.
	There is in some houses an unconscious
atmosphere of domestic and social ozone which
brightens everybody; wealth cannot give it
nor can poverty take it away.—Miss Muloch.
	True generosity does not consist in obeying
every impulse of humanity, in following
blind passion for our guide, and impairing our
circumstances by present benefactions so as to
render us incapable of future ones.—Goldsmith.
	I find the great thing in this world is not
so much where we stand as in what direction
we are moving. To reach the port of heaven
we mnst sail sometimes with the wind and
sometimes against it; but we must sail and
not drift, nor lie at anchor.—Oliver Wendell
Holmes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1891.


[Column 1]﻿

WHICH PARTY WILL RECOGNIZE
WOMEN?

	There are many subjects of special interest to
be considered consequent upon the events that
are transpiring with this people; other phases of
the social, religious and political conditions are
presenting themselves and much new thought is
awakened thereby; things are undergoing a
change in the community, and it behooves each
one to be prepared for whatever is coming, and
to be able to judge for himself, or herself upon all
matters of vital importance.
	Particularly in the breaking up of the peoples'
party and dividing on party lines, should the
greatest wisdom be exercised, and a realizing
sense of the importance of such a step be taken
into careful consideration.
	One may say it will make very little difference
to women in this Territory as they have no vote;
but even though they have not, women are and
should be deeply and understandingly interested
in these matters, and in all others that concern the
welfare of humanity. The woman who has no
interest in this question now being widely agitated
and no thoughts upon the subject, is not alive to
her opportunities of doing good, or of helping
herself or others. It is a grand opening for the
discussion of these pertinent questions that per-
tain to woman's claims and her grievances.
	Two political parties are being formed from
the Peoples' Party, which of these two will in-
troduce into their platform a plank, or a resolu-
tion favoring woman suffrage? "What would be
the use, some say,considering Congress took the
suffrage away from the women of this Territory?"
There is no boundary set for men in their gallantry
towards those whom they are pleased to term the
weaker sex, and as a matter of courtesy to women
who have once held the elective franchise and
exercised it so judiciously that even those opposed
to it on general principles,could not find any fault
with the use they made of it,and after being robbed
of it for political purposes, the writer cannot pos-
sibly see, why these fellow citizens who are advo-
cating the rights of men and brothers should not
consider the rights of women, their sisters, and be
generous enough to accord in word at least some
political recognition, even if there is not any im
mediate prospect of its being made a reality. It
would show the good will of the particular party,
and women have some influence even without
votes, but we are free to confess, a great deal
more with votes.
	At a Convention, or Festival held in Boston,
Mass., recently Mrs. Lucy Stone or Mrs. Howe
in summoning up the political party under dis-
cussion, and by the bye we believe it was the
Republican party, made this assertion, if in the
event of its becoming the ruling or dominant
party it did not accord equal political rights to

[Column 2]

women, who had given it such support and
strength, it deserved to die an ignominous
death.
	Even in conservative England there have been
more privileges accorded to women than in the
United States, where so much is said and written
of freedom, and liberty, and equal rights. Miss
Balgarnie the delegate from various societies in
the kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland said,in
her speech at the National Council of Women
held in Washington last Winter, that,
	"We the women of Great Britain now possess
all the votes which men possess, except the Par-
liamentary vote. We have the right to vote at
seven elections, which deal with the school
boards, municipal government, local government
poor law government,—in fact we have a right to
declare what men shall spend the rates and taxes
which we have to contribute. Moreover we may
be elected to serve upon the school boards and a
large number of women serve in that capacity.
What is more the men urge us to do it. It is not
so many years ago that a representative of the
Men's Liberal Association (what is called the
Men's Liberal Four Hundred) did me the honor
to wait upon me and ask me to run with the men
as a candidate for the school board. I am glad
to say, that generally, men are welcoming the wo-
men in this respect. In the few places where
they do not, women possess sufficient voting
power to retain their own women candidates,
irrespective of the men."
	"We have lately obtained the vote for the
county councils, which are analagous to your
state and territorial governments."
	This is hopeful for England under a woman,
Queen Victoria. And what about America "the
land of the free and the home of the brave," of
which we sing and boast so much? Wyoming
leads the van, there equal rights for men and
women prevail? Utah ought to have had the
same privileges; the legislature passed the bill
allowing women to vote in the winter of 1870 and
the Governor signed it on the 7th of February.
Women voted for Hon. Daniel H. Wells for
Mayor on the 14th of February, 1870.
	Yet we find wherever suffrage for woman is
spoken of in public gatherings there are only a
very few who dare speak for Utah upon this
question. Now that a new political era has come
in the history of the Territory what is to be the
outlook for the recognition of women as citizens?
They pay their taxes as well as men and we have
never heard that women were ignorant in regard
to paying taxes; that is one of the privileges they
are permitted. They know how to earn money;
there are thousands of women in this Territory
engaged in various industries and professions, and
are actually self-supporting. We believe that the
majority of the Peoples' Party men, are in favor
of woman suffrage, and we have noticed that a
resolution in the Democratic platform says "We
are unalterably opposed to the disfranchisement
of any citizen except for crime, whereof he shall
have been duly convicted." That is very good
indeed, but it should be broad enough to apply to
women citizens as well as men. There is no
doubt a great future for Utah and in that day wo-
man will assuredly have equal political rights
with her brother man. And now is the time to
prepare for that event.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Pres. Jane S. Richards attended the Relief
Society Conference of Box Elder Stake held at
Brigham City, June 9th,of which we hope to have
a synopsis of minutes and proceedings to publish
next issue.
	Presidents Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W.
Smith, Counselors to Pres. Zina D. H. Young of
the Relief Society went to Grantsville to attend

[Column 2]

the Relief Society and Sisters Conferences of that
Stake, leaving this City Saturday morning, June
13, and are expect home to-day. We shall prob-
ably have a report of the Conferences in our next
issue. 
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The Primary Fair will open in the Social Hall
in this City on Wednesday, the 17th inst., under
the immediate direction of President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and
Lydia Ann Wells. The people should patronize
this Fair and show their appreciation of the efforts
of the children in making articles and in doing
such work as is suited to their years. As a people
we expect great things of the children and they
in turn certainly should receive encouragement
from parents and friends; otherwise they are
likely to become discouraged. Great efforts are
being made by those who have charge of the
Primary Associations in the various districts
and Stakes of Zion, and it is right and proper that
they should receive a recognitton of their labors,
by the people,especially those whose children are
under their care and instruction. We hope to 
see the Fair well patronized.
	A new book called "The Educator, CAUSE
and CURE of all DISEASES," has been handed into
this office recently by one of its authors, Mrs.
Conger, who is herself a regular physician and
who has in connection with her husband, also a
Dr., prepared this original work for the benefit of
the public. We have been looking over the book
during the past few days and find many excellent
hints and suggestions as well as plain every day
facts, and methods of handling patients and their
ailments with a view of making permanent cures.
There are many important truths told in an agree-
able and intelligent manner that will make a
deeper impression than if handled only scientifi-
cally, or in that crude hard way more common
among writers on these ponderous subjects. The
book is certainly very attractive, and every
family would do well to have a copy of it at hand
in the home-library. After reading it more care-
fully and thoroughly we may be able to say more
and give a better idea of its merits.
	Wednesday, May 27, there was a very pleasant
social gathering at the little new brick cottage of
Helen Mar Whitney on the corner of C. and 6th
Sts. in the 18th Ward of the City. There were
present the members of her immediate family, and
her brother Solomon Kimball and wife, also the
Bishop, Orson F. Whitney, (her eldest son) and
his Counselors, Robert Patrick and Wm. Barton
and their wives and Elder McDonald and wife,
and the writer. A sumptuous dinner had been
prepared by Sister Whitney's daughters and after
the repast was over, and the guests and family
had reassembled in the parlor, Bishop Whitney
dedicated the house in an eloquent and appropri-
ate prayer that echoed the sentiments of his
mother and we believe of all those who were
present as well as touching their hearts with its
earnestness. It is a beautiful idea to dedicate the
homes of the Saints to the Lord as dwelling
places of peace and contentment where His Holy
Spirit may be poured out in rich abundance, and
for the preservation of health and life, and where


angels may visit from time to time and hold
sweet communion. It is our earnest and heart-
felt prayer that Sister Whitney may live to enjoy
this comfortable home in the possession of health
and every blessing it is possible for her to receive
and partake of for her benefit.
	On Tuesday, June the 9th, a very happy party
 met by invitation at the residence of Bishop H.
B. Clawson and wife, for a double purpose,
to dedicate the new and handsome residence re-
cently erected on South Temple just East of
State Street and to celebrate the marriage of their
daughter Winnifred, to George Ellerbeck son of
Thomas and Emma Spence Ellerbeck of this
City. The house was very beautifully illuminated
for the occasion, and promptly at 6 p. m., after
the arrival of President Wilford Woodruff and
Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Hon. John T. Caine,
and some other special friends the Dedicatory
prayer was offered by Pres. Geo. Q Cannon, and
following that, the marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Bishop O. F. Whitney. The bride in
all the blushing loveliness of youth and innocence
beautiful in simple white and orange blossoms,
the bridegroom with proud and manly bearing
looking quite happy and satisfied, stood under a
canopy of the most exquisite flowers, while the
solemn service was pronounced which bound
them together as husband and wife. The wed-
ding reception proper then commenced, and
guests began to flow in until the house was
crowded. Refreshments were served and con-
gratulations and expressions of good feeling fol-
lowed by kisses etc., were continuous, for a time.
The presents were so numerous and elaborate
that it is not possible to mention them all, they
consisted of elegant furniture and furnishings,
silver, cutlery, china, Royal Worcester and other
varieties, cut-glass and so on. A diamond necklace
from the bridegroom, lamps, clocks, books and
many other things. The writer only wishes to
express for these new voyagers on the sea of
matrimony a pleasant and happy sail over all the
shoals and quicksands and a safe entrance into
the harbor of security, when life's voyage is over.
	Thursday evening, June 11th, we had the
pleasure and satisfaction of participating in a
pleasant reunion of friends and relatives at the
home of Mrs. Rachel Emma Simmons of this city
widow of the once popular actor in the bye-
gone days of the Salt Lake stage, Joseph F.
Simmons. There were about thirty people present,
besides a great number of beautiful grand-child-
ren. The dinner was a feast of good things, the
hostess having the happy faculty of preparing ap
petizing luxuries; the tables were handsomely
ornamented with lovely flowers, June roses of
every shade and hue, peonies and the fragrant
honey-suckle, but the most striking feature of all
was the handsome and goodly countenances of
the sons and daughters of the hostess and their
life companions. At the head of the table was
the eldest son, J. F. Simmons, now Counselor to
Bishop Romney of the 20th Ward, and at the
other end of the table, Fred Simmons, a most
examplary and strikingly handsome young man.
The daughters however are not lacking in per-
sonal interest and attractions and Sister Simmons
has every reason to be proud of her family. The
blessing was pronounced by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and here let it be said the Whitneys
were well represented in this gathering. During
the evening a letter was read from one of the sons
Arthur Simmons who is absent in Mexico, and
besides general and spirited conversation, there
was music and singing by members of the family.
Bishop O. F. Whitney sang "My own, my native
land," with guitar accompaniment, and James T.
Dunbar and his wife Louisa, the daughter of
Henrietta Simmons, sang a duet "Only Thee,"
which was highly appreciated. Mr. Dunbar also
sang afterward. There was instrumental music also

[Column 2]

by members of the family and some waltzing, etc.
but the greatest enjoyment was the meeting to-
gether of old friends and the sweet communion
and association of "Auld lang syne." Peace be
to the household and may the friendship of long
ago,still continue and be a part and portion of the
life to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S VOTE.

	Why women should have a voice in public
affairs! Women are taxed equal to men, they
are held responsible to the law the same, their
reasoning, perceptive and governing powers are
as effective as those of their brother man; a
widow can stand at the head of her household,
guide, control and create means to sustain her
family with better economy and keep them to-
gether better than a widower, for he is more help-
less with the entire care of a family without the
woman, than she is without the man.
	She is endowed with more fortitude, persever-
ance, temperance and sufferance. These qualifi-
cations in woman are nature's best gifts,fitting her
for man's equal in all the transactions and vicissi-
tudes of life. When side by side with him, her
perceptive intuition makes her for man, a wise
counselor who acts in concert with him, devising
plans, adopting means and ways, for his future
benefit.
	That never failing fountain of love for him and
their offspring growing out of those attributes re-
fined, made pliable and subtile; she is self-reliant
on her own ability and power of action. She
overcomes obstacles thrown in her way and sur-
mounts them all; this makes her capable to ac-
quiesce, conform, explain, predict and conjoin in
fellowship with her own sex, and the stronger
and less subdued element in man.
	It makes her befitting to fill the highest station
in life, and capable to decide questions that in-
volve her happiness and welfare. Without her
vote so many blanks remain. Questions of vital
interest are undecided and the best side of things
lies dormant as the one half of God's creations
are debared from taking part in the great drama
on her public stage. The one element that should
be retained is excluded. The coarser, boisterous
intemperate and overbearing "Might makes
right," rules.
	Fellow citizens how long shall this state of
things be? and woman be inactive to the great
benefit of mankind and their integral interests?
Detract from her, you do indeed detract from
him, as fate hath blended both in one.
	Genesis 1st ch. 26th vrs: "And God said let
us make man in our image, after our likeness."
And as earthly things are in the likeness of
heavenly things, we know our Heavenly Father is
a person, and knowing this we can worship Him
in spirit and in truth. All womankind should
have respect for her fellow man, for as she looks
upon him she sees the image of her Heavenly
Father reflective. Man has not lost his original
form as much as woman, he is not as much
governed by fashion in dress as she is, in that
which depresses the natural form. This is why
we read in Isaiah 3rd ch. that the daughters of
Zion wil be scourged. "Male and female created
He them." And as our poetess Eliza R. Snow
renders it,

"In the heavens are parents single.
	No the thought makes reason stare;
Truth is reason, truth eternal,
	Tells me I've a mother there."

	Then woman is made in the image of her
Heavenly Mother.
	28th vrs: "And God blessed them, and said
unto them, be fruitful, and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over
the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air,

[Column 2]

and over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth."
	29th vrs: "And God said I have given you
(not him), speaking to the  man and woman, all
things bearing seed upon all the face of the
earth."
	But Adam and Eve sinned and Adam was to
rule, Christ atoned for the sins of the world, and
that places woman on an equal with man, as at
the beginning. "To have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth," in con-
nection with her husband, or her fellow man.
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, June 8, 1891.


IN MEXICO.

	After leaving colony Diez we travel over a
beautiful country for about 60 miles until we come
to Casas Grande, here we find a nice, rich, fertile
valley, watered by the Casas Grande river which
is followed on both sides with a heavy growth of
timber, such as cotton wood, black walnut, willow
and other kinds; the soil is rich and productive
and by planting wheat in the fall it can be
harvested in time to raise a crop of corn on the
same land; sweet potatoes do well, as also pea
nuts; there are melons in abundance, grapes ripen
in July and it is a splendid country for raising
corn. There are many hundred acres of good
land in this vicinity that can be bought at rea-
sonable figures with good title and water rights
secured.
	Casas Grande is an old Mexican town, a part of
it in ruins from old age or caused by earth-quakes
which have been recent here. We have lived
neighbors to the Mexicans about a year, and
have thus far not much reason to complain,
finding them to be a much better people than they
were represented, we had often heard of their
having some traits of dishonesty about them, and
we think this is true to a certain extent, but do
not feel justified in saying it of them all, for we
have found some very respectable ladies and
gentlemen here. And we do not find them a
boisterous noisy community; although they are
not very industrious, they seem to have a desire
to learn, and there is an opening for the establish-
ment of industries here.
	It is our intention to begin a school soon, for
the purpose of teaching English, also to teach
knitting, spinning, etc., as soon as the necessary
books can be obtained. The natives are beginning
to admire our ways of living, and many express a
desire to learn of our religion, and are interested
in reading our books, take a peculiar intesest in
reading the Book of Mormon and seem to realize
that we are in possession of a doctrine superior
to theirs; for many of them can not help seeing
the deception of the Catholic priests. * * * But
it seems that as yet the time has not come to
preach the Gospel to them, but we believe when
it does come there will be many of the honest in
heart who will receive it.
	Our children are learning the Spanish language,
we have a little girl, two years old, who interests
the natives very much speaking their language
it being more simple and easier pronounced than
the English, she seems to prefer to speak it.
There are several families of Mexicans living in
Colony Juarez who belong to the Church, and are
very good, sincere Latter-day Saints, and seem to
enjoy life very much and are gathering around
them the comforts of life, and from outside ap-
pearances none could distinguish their homes
from others of the Saints. Juarez is a nice little
place situated between the hills. We never see it
until we come to the dug way which descends to
the valley below, making a beautiful sight to look
down on the nice little place, with its streets run-
ning at right angles, and the sidewalks lined with
shade trees, patches of lucerne, gardens and


orchards surround the quiet homes of the
Saints in this peaceful little place. A neat little
store owned by the community where can be
found a nice stock of goods for this country, and
quite cheap, adds to the convenience of the peo-
ple. There is a good adobe building for school
and meeting purposes which is always tolerably
well filled. The Saints seem to enjoy themselves
and feel that hard times are almost over in Mexico
and that a bright future awaits us here; and we
believe that we have been led here by the hand
of Providence to perform a great work which re-
mains to be done in the future.
		S. T. BOICE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	DESERET.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to give you a short sketch of the
reorganizing of our Relief Society of Deseret.
The wards being divided in, three, namely
Deseret, Hinckley and Oasis.
	On the 9th and 10th of May, Sister Elizabeth
Yates, Stake President of Relief Society,
Millard, came and organized a society in each
ward, holding meetings at Deseret on the 10th,
at 10 o'clock a. m., Pres. Yates presiding.
Meeting began in the usual manner. The
Sisters were called to select their President.
Sister Eliza Whicker was chosen, the same
President that presided before. She selected
for first counselor Eliza Moody; second,
Victoria Black. Marietta Webb was chosen
secretary, Alice Moody, assistant secretary,
Kate Allred, treasurer. We also received
some instructions from Pres. Yates and from
her second counselor L. Tompson.
	The Stake President and Counselors were
here and gave us some good advice.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. We
have worked together so long in Deseret as a
whole that we felt sad at being parted; how-
ever it was thought best as we live in such a
scattered condition. We will soon become
used to meeting separately and it is much
better for the teachers and those that live so
far. We have a society that has been alive
to its duties ever since it was organized.
	The Sisters have all worked together in
unison.
			MARIETTA WEBB, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference report of
Emery Stake held in Huntington, April 17,
1891: President Annie U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "Spirit of God come down," prayer by
Brother P. Johnson, singing, "Come, O thou
King of Kings." President Annie Larsen
then made a few opening remarks, advising
the secretaries to be prompt in sending the re-
ports of their wards, also spoke of her visit
through the settlements in the stake, the good
feeling prevailing. Reports of those present
were listened to with marked interest. Sister
Olsen, president of the Castle Dale Ward, felt
well in her labors with the sisters, ever ready
and willing to do her duty. Mrs. L. C. Avery
of Huntington, Mrs. Eunice Petty of Emery,
and Mrs. Alger of Cleveland each reported
their wards, all seemed to be doing well, and a
spirit of union and love in their midst. Stake
Counselor Ann Pulsifer had attened Salt Lake
conference, and gave some very interesting re-
marks of the good things she had heard spoken
of, and the powerful testimony of President
Woodruff. Counselor Mary E. Cox bore her
testimony to the Latter-day work. Brother
J. D. Chase spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters. Mrs. McNervin gave in the Lawrence
Ward report, which was good. Meeting ad-
journed until half past one, in the afternoon,
singing, benediction by Bishop Pulsifer.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon meeting: President Annie Larsen
presiding, singing, "With all my joys of heart
and tongue," prayer by D. Washburn, singing
"My God the spring of all my joys." Mrs.
Sarah Fulmer reported the Orangeville ward.
Bishop Oversen addressed the conference a
short time. Several sisters bore their testi-
mony to the Latter-day work, many good
things were said, and all felt the good spirit
that prevailed in our midst. Bishop Pulsifer
exhorted to continual faithfulness, and other
brethren who were present spoke. President
Annie Larsen then made a few closing remarks
and released Ann E. Seeley and Kathinka An-
derson from the positions as stake secretary
with a vote of thanks. The officers of the
stake were unanimously sustained as follows:
Annie U. Larsen president, Johanah E. Childs
as first counselor, Ann Pulsifer as second coun-
selor, M. J. Shipp secretary. Choir sang, "Lift
up your head,ye scattered Saints." Benediction
by Bishop Pulsifer.
			J. S. MCKEE, Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief
Society of the Stake, held May 29th, 1891, in
the meeting house, Provo City. Pres. Mary
John presiding, Counselors Emily G. Cluff
and Marilla Daniels also on the stand. Con-
ference opened by singing, "Once more we
come before our God." Prayer by Counselor
Marilla Daniels. Singing, "Arise O glorious
Zion." Minutes of former Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. John was grateful to see so many at
conference as it proves their faithfulness. I feel
the sisters are doing a good work, wished the
younger sisters would meet with us even if
they bring their children. The old will not
always be able to meet with us, and the re-
sponsibilities will rest with the young. Spoke
of the Hospital fund,it is our duty to help that
institution. Would like to hear from the
presidents of the different branches of the
Society throughout the country. After hear-
ing their reports, which were very satisfactory
and encouraging, conference adjourned till 2
p. m. Benediction by Sister Wilkins.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. On
the stand in addition to the presiding officers
of the Society, were Sisters S. M. Kimball and
Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises.
A few more reports were given in by the presi-
dents, after which Sister S. M. Kimball spoke
to the sisters for a short time, explained the
organization and position of the Relief Society;
was thankful for these organizations, when we
benefit others we benefit ourselves, our useful-
ness increases and we realize that we are
brothers and sisters, one grand brotherhood,
etc., we cannot gain knowledge and intelligence
without effort. Spoke on various subjects of
interest to the sisters.
	Sister Goodman spoke on the silk question;
did not like to see the interest dying out,
thought it would eventually be a source of pro-
fit to us, etc.
	Coun. Marilla Daniels felt to endorse what
Sister Goodman had said about silk; but it
would need unity of purpose to make it a
success. Let us try and interest young women
in coming to these meetings that they may
learn the workings of the society and see how
they are conducted, etc.
	Sister E. S. Richards felt pleased to be with
us, had always tried to meet with the Relief
Society, had enjoyed meeting with Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina in years gone by, this is the
place to get strength, I think that our women
are as bright and smart as any in the world,
we are called and set apart to fulfill various
duties in these organizations, I do not believe
the men have as many organizations as the

[Column 3]

Sisters, the world cannot understand us.
spoke of the W. C. T. U., associations, "the
Lord is working with those outside as well as
ourselves. Women are stealing a little time
from household cares for self-improvement,
we must spend some time in self-culture and
creep out from the toil that surrounds us, let
us devote our spare time to educating ourselves
instead of making lace and other fancy work
etc.
	Pres. John thought we were well paid for
coming to meeting,felt thankful to our visitors,
asked our Heavenly Father to bless us with
his Holy Spirit. Conference was adjourned
for three months. Singing, "The spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by S. M.
Kimball.
			C. DANIELS, Sec'y.

WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
its Semi Annual Conference in the Stake
House at Heber,May 28, 1891, at 10:30 o'clock
a. m. Present on the stand, President Hatch
and Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop Henry
Clegg, and the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society and representatives of the different
wards,also Sisters E. Howard and Lillie Freeze
of Salt Lake City. Pres. Emma Brown pre-
siding, singing by the choir, led by Brother
Roger Horrocks, "The morning breaks," prayer
by Bishop Henry Clegg, singing, "God spake
the word." The roll was called,22 officers be-
ing present; minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. Brown exhorted the sisters to be dili-
gent in attending conferences and also their
ward meetings.
	Heber West Ward was reported by Sister
C. Foreman, who said she realized blessing in
attending meeting and knew others would do
so if they would come.
	Sister Margaret Muir reported Heber East
Ward, said they had a good many enrolled,
some had a desire to come while others had
not, felt thankful for a testimony of this great
work.
	Sister Lillie Freeze said she felt a little
strange when she first came in, but, considered
as we are eventually to be united in one
great family it was good to become acquainted
with one another; things transpired sometimes
which caused us to feel cold towards our neigh-
bors; such feelings should not be entertained;
persons having feelings against their brethren
or sisters should not partake of the sacrament
before they had made things right. Spoke
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and some re-
marks he made when he organized this Society.
Exhorted the mothers to send their children to
the Primaries and Sunday Schools where
they could be taught the things of God.
	After singing "High on the mountain top,"
and prayer by Sister Mary Daybell,conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session resumed at 2 o'clock with
the usual excercises of singing and prayer.
The Midway Ward was reported by Sister
Mary Guerney who stated that it was in a fair
condition. Sister Mary E. Cluff reported
Center Ward, said they were few in number,
but were earnest in doing good.
	Sister Mary Dabling in reporting Wallsburg
said some do not come once a year to meeting,
while others come often and those that came
brought a good spirit with them and they had
good meetings.
	Sister Mellisa Murdock reported Charleston,
relating a little of her experience when the
society was organized there. Woodland Ward
not reported.
	Sister E. Howard said it was the duty of
every virtuous woman in the wards to be mem-
bers of the Society, spoke of the signs of the
times, and the eventful year of 1891; spoke of


the many tests that would be brought to bear
against us as a people, and unless we had an
undying testimony within our hearts we would
not be able to stand the trials that would come
upon us. Asked how many of us were pre-
paring to become  queens and priestesses in the
Kingdom of our God. Showed the necessity
of mothers doing all they could for their
childrens' welfare spiritually as well as tem-
portally; in speaking of the Sacrament, said
how can we partake of it with feelings in our
hearts against our brethren and sisters,
thought if we did so we would eat and
drink condemnation to our souls. 
	Sister L. Freeze gave some good counsel and
exhorted all to diligence in the performance of
duties, and said the officers should be sus-
tained and their labors appreciated by those
for whom they labored. Advised counsel
meetings of the officers, quarterly or monthly,
thought such would be beneficial.
	President Hatch said it seemed to him that
the sisters were as good talkers as the men
and thought we had had a very enjoyable
time
	Sister Hannah Harbour was then set apart
as Stake Secretary by Counselor T. H. Giles
and President Hatch.
	Pres. Brown felt that we had all enjoyed
ourselves in meeting together and exhorted the
sisters to use their influence in getting others
to attend conferences and other meetings of
the Society. A vote of thanks was tendered
to Sisters Howard and Freeze and conference
then adjourned till the last Thursday in Sep-
tember to meet at Midway. Singing "Praise
to the man, etc." Benediction by Bishop N
C. Murdock.
	HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.

PRIMARY CONFERENCE.
	The Primary Conference  of Wasatch Stake
was held in the Stake House at Heber, May
29, 1891. Stake President of the P. A., Ann
Murdock presiding. There were present
President Hatch and several of the prominent
brethren, also Pres. Emma Brown of the Relief
Society and Sisters E. Howard and L. Freeze
of Salt Lake City, and a number of the parents
of the children. Meeting was opened at 10:30
a. m. by singing "Trust the children &c."
Prayer by Brother John Horrocks, singing
"I'm not too young, &c." Minutes of last
Conference read and accepted. Heber West,
and East and Midway wards were reported as
being in favorable condition; the other wards
are going to be reorganized at once. A very
interesting programme was rendered by the
children of the wards represented, after which
many interesting and instructive remarks were
made and much good counsel was given by
Sisters Howard and Freeze and a general good
time was enjoyed by all those who participated
in the exercises as well as those who were
present; one long to be remembered by the
children of Wasatch. Ever praying for the
peace and prosperity of Zion.
	I remain your Sister in the faith,
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMEN AS POLICE MATRONS.

BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	[Delivered at Woman's National Council,
Washington, D. C.]
	It is more than twenty years since my atten-
tion was first attracted to this subject. In 1870
I was appointed one of a committee of three
to go and see the Superintendent of Police, of
New York, and try to get women appointed as
police matrons. We were received very politely
by him, but he insisted that there was no need
of such an innovation. We asked him if he

[Column 2]

had never known of an instance where it would
have been better to have had a woman in
charge of the station-house? At last he did
remember of an occasion when a young woman
was brought into the station-house by a police
captain. She could not speak, and the case
was entered in the blotter as "drunk and dis-
orderly." She was consigned to a cell and in
the morning was found dead with a dead babe
beside her.
	In 1881 a bill providing for the appointment
of police matrons was introduced into the New
York Legistlature. It passed in the house by
a unanimous vote, and in the senate by a large
majority; but the Governor withheld his sig-
nature. The Governor was elected by the men
of the State, and he didn't wish to offend his
constitutents. The Police Department from
the first opposed with all of their power the
effort to secure police matrons.
	In 1888 a bill, prepared by the Women's
Prison Association of New York, was passed
through both houses of legislature and received
the Governer's signature. It ran thus: "When
ever the Board of Appointment shall appropri-
ate money for the payment of salaries of police
matrons, these matrons shall be appointed."
	Under this bill police matrons have been
appointed in Buffalo, Rochester and other
towns in New York. But from that day to
this the Board of Appointment of New York
City has not appropriated the money.
	Two years ago, when the law was first past
I went down to see the Mayor and Comptroller
to urge this question upon them. They corres-
ponded with the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department: "The
Board of Police has made no request for an
appropriation of salaries of police matrons, be-
cause, in the opinion of this Department the
appointement of such matrons is neither wise
nor expedient."
	Last fall a  bill was introduced by Geoge F.
Roesch, a Tammany Democrat, which proves
that some good thing can come from a
Tammany Democrat, and it will probably re-
ceive the votes of the Democrats. As the
other bills, have received the support of Re-
publicans, we have great reason to hope that
this will be passed by both branches of the
Legislature. We are just on the threshhold
of success, and here let me say that we do not
mean to find any fault with the policemen;
there are many noble and true hearts beating
under their blue coats. We know that they
are as kind as men can be in cases of distress,
but it is only seemly that women who are in
our station-houses night after night should have
the protection of women there, in the saddest
condition that women can reach—that of be-
ing homeless.
	In these station-houses are three classes, the
homeless, the criminals, and the innocent
alleged to be criminal, and all are in the hands
of men. However kind a man may be, you
know it is not fitting. The policeman embodies
force, and side by side with him should stand
a woman embodying mercy.
	[Since the delivery of the above address the
bill providing for the appointment of police
matrons has been passed by the New York
Legislature and received the signature of
Governor Hill.]


[Column 1]

ADDRESS.

MRS. BERTHA HONORE PALMER.

[At the Woman's Council, Washington, D. C.
	During the session in Chicago of the Board
of Lady Managers, of the World's Columbian
Commission, in Novemeber last, a telegram was
received from your Secretary inviting the

[Column 2]

﻿Board to send a delegate to this meeting of
the Women's Council. The Board did me the
honor to appoint me its representative, and I
came to listen and learn in this assembly of
Women of broad views and high ideals, and I
feel asured that the purposes of our Board will
be greatly furthered by our having been put
in sympathetic touch with the leaders of
thought in the various departments of woman's
work. I thank you heartily for the courtesy
so cordially extended and especially for being
allowed to interrupt for a few moments the
course of your interesting exercises to say a
few words about what the Board of Lady
Managers proposes to do at the Exposition.
A magnificent site has been assigned us and
$200,000 appropriated for the construction of
the Woman's Building, which will undoubtedly
be kept as a permanent memorial of woman's
work after the Fair is over, and in it all
woman's organizations and convocations will
find a home. This building is to be designed
by a woman, competitive sketches having al-
ready been advertised for from the women
architects of the country; three prizes of one
thousand, five hundred, and two hundred and
fifty dollars, respectively, being offered for the
best three designs. We hope by thus calling at-
tention to the work of women in architecture to
aid them to occupy atfield which naturally
belongs to them, that of domestic architecture,
for every man spoils many houses while he is
gradually being educated by the women for
whom he builds to know what is required in a
home.
	We shall try to provide in this building for
all possible wants of women, having in view a
Bureau of Information with interpreters
and guides for strangers,parlors and balconies
where ladies may rest and chat,an exhibitors,
club room, a model kitchen, where demonstra-
tion lessons may be given, we hope without
charge, a loan exhibit of Colonial, Old Dutch,
Scandinavian and other relics, recalling the
early history of our country and the various
nationalities from which we are sprung, and
also objects developed in the home by the
taste of woman. One wing of the building
will possibly be devoted to showing the Reform
and Charitable Organizations originated and
carried on by women, and the other to the
exhibit which will by sent by our Auxiliary
Associations formed through the instrumen-
tality of our foreign ministers in the countries
to which they are accredited, and bp means
of which we shall be enabled to indicate the
condition and attainments of women in every
part of the world. We shall also have an
Administration Room, Committee Rooms and
an Assembly Room for all lectures, congresses
and assemblies which may be desired by women.
In the main gallery there will probably be
special exhibits of the most brilliant achieve-
ments of woman's hand and brain; these will
doubtless be,in many cases, duplicates of objects
entered for competition in the general exhibit
under the regular classification, the duplicates
being placed in our building to emphasize the
fact that they are the work of women.
	In reading a list of the organizations
represented here, it occured to me that we
might obtain also a most unusual exhibit from
the Missionary Stations in the inaccessible and
unfrequented parts of the earth, and I beg
the ladies representing missionary societies to
realize that they may aid both themselves and
us by showing the life and work of women in
heathen countries. If a child-widow, for
instance, from a Zenanna could be brought
with her native dress and surroundings, and
the suffering and inhumanity to which she is
subjected shown, it would arouse such an
interest in the subject as years of talk would
not produce. The native weaving, pottery,
ornaments, costumes, household utensils, etc.,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


from these countries would also be of the
greatest interest and value.
	We are fortunate in thus being able to
present our plans and to ask nothing from the
ladies but their sympathic co-operation, and
an expression of their views as to how the
cause of woman may best be served; our build-
ing and its facilities being offered free of charge
to all the women of the country.
	For the first time in our history the mothers,
wives and daughters of America have been
permitted to assist in the management of an
important national enterprise, and have been
allowed the high but demoralizing privilege of
slipping their fingers into the national purse,
in order that they may prepare an object
lesson, showing the progress of women during
the century in which educational and other
privileges have been acorded her. We wish
to show that with the enlargment of her
opportunities, her sphere has extended and
broadened until she now works successfully in
almost every field heretofore given up ex-
clusively to man; that she can do many things
and do them all well, and that there are no
intellectual heights she cannot scale. Hers
are essentially the arts of peace and progress,
and her best work is shown in the reforms
she has had the courage and the ideality to
inaugurate against time-honored wrongs, both
legislative and social, and in the gradual
elevation of the standard of morality.
	We feel the necessity of showing this
beautiful influence and the advance which it
has caused, but are handicapped by the fact
that the most valuable part is spiritual, and
that it is difficult to show progress in abstract
things except by a mass of statistics, which be-
come significant, only when intelligently and
sympathetically read. Will you not aid us
with your experience and thought to show
woman's work as a beautiful whole, with its
animating spirit, and not as a mere mass of
material things? We wish the World's Fair
of 1893 to be memorable as a great exhibition,
greater than any which ever preceded it, but we
also wish its history to be a golden page in the
annals of woman's advancment.
	We urgently request, therefore, that each
organization represented here appoint a com-
mittee of five of its most able women to
consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and to present to us at an
early date their suggestions and advice
as to how we may accomplish the great end
we have in view, and to inform us in what
manner their associations will be able to co-
operate with our Board in its work, and we
ask that they send their suggestions, applica-
tions for space, etc., to our headquarters in
Chicago, where they will be gladly received
and most carefully considered and acted
upon.
	The Board of Lady Managers, in recipro-
cation of the hospitatlity and fraternal feeling
shown it, has great pleasure in asking, that
when the members of this distinguished body
and the many associations here represented
visit the coming Exposition, as of course
they will, they at once make themselves known
to the representatives of our Board, who will
be glad to receive and welcome them in the
Woman's Building, where every convenience
and facility for their comfort will be provided.
The Board also most cordially and pressingly
invites this Council to hold its International
meeting in Chicago at the time of the
Columbian Exposition, when it will place at
the service of the ladies the assembly room in the
Woman's Building, and should that not prove
large enough, through our Congress Auxiliary,
the magnificent Auditorium can be secured
for the meeting of the International Council
of Women.


ITEMS FROM OVERTON.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Thinking that perhaps some of our friends
would like to know about our little village
away out in the southern part of Nevada, I
thought I would write a few lines to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We are enjoying
very cool weather for this time of year, have
had a few nice showers of rain which makes
things look more beautiful; men are busy
harvesting grain, you can hear the song of the
birds and the rattle of the machine in almost
every field of beautiful golden grain; we have
plenty of early vegetables; our little town is
in a beautiful valley as nice as any one could
wish to make a home in. We can raise al-
most anything that we put in the ground;
we enjoy pleasant winters, snow is a very rare
thing, I have lived here for ten years and
have seen snow once.
	We want more settlers to help build up the
place; we have good society, but we want more
people to help use the abundance of water we
have, then we will be more free from chills;
the health of the people is generally good; no
deseases of any kind bother us much our
warmest weather is the latter part of July and
August.
	I am always very much interested in the
EXPONENT and take pleasure in reading
the articles written by the Sisters; we are a
long way from any large settlement, but we
often go to St. George to Conference meetings.
Sister Susanna Johnson is President of our
Relief Society, which is a very good one
attended by all that are old enough to be
members, Sister Zephyr Nixon is President of
the Primary the children all take an active
part, and it is well attended; we hope to see
the day this valley will be more thickly settled
then of course we can have a more interesting
time. We cut five crops of hay and could cut
more but stock is turned loose; we have a good
cattle range on the Rio Virgin River close by,
we have a good market for hay and grain in the
Spring.
				Very Truly, 
								KATE.
June 3, 1891.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died in Mill Creek, May the first 1891. Louisa Ruth
eldest daughter of Charles L. and Martha L. North, aged
five years and six months.
	She died of la grippe just one week after her father was
buried which was a sad blow to her mother.
	She was a member of the Primary Association. Was
bright and intelligent and was beloved by all her little play-
mates.
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them
not for of such is the kingdom of the heaven."
									A FULLER,

	Sister Anne Christine Jensen, of the Manti South Ward,
died May 12th, 1891, at the age of fifty years, after a
lingering sickness of eight months. She was born in
Roberg, Hjorring Co., Denmark, March 29, 1841. She
was the oldest girl of her parents, and after the death o
her mother took a mother’s duty upon her shoulders to rear
her younger brothers and sisters. In the year 1861 she
visited the Baptist Society, but before joining any of them,
however, happened to hear an Elder of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, believed his teachings and was
baptized in the Winter of 1862 by Elder A. C. Neilson.
Sister Jensen emigrated in '63, married a man by the name
of Lindelow, whom she sustained with hard labor for eleven
years, being broken in spirit and nearly worn out bodily,
from whom she separated, according to the counsel of the
Priesthood of Plain City, where she then resided. Then
moved to Salt Lake City,and worked in the Blythe's Order
seven years, when it broke up, and left her destitute again.
But never tiring, began again, rented a room, and com-
menced carpet weaving, and by dililgent labor and
economy earned enough in a few years to buy a home in


Manti, which cost her about $500. Since 1881 she paid to 
the Temple $40 in cash, to tithing $165 besides donations
and fast offerings all of which she earned with her own
hands; performed the work for her dead relative and friends
who were to the number of 111 in the Manti Temple; Sister
Jensen refused every assistance during her ill health, and
worked most of the time, even when sick. She was
a marvelous example of industry, economy, firmness of
character, and faithfulness to all duties as a Latter-day
Saint; a faithful teacher in the R. S. of her Ward and a
worthy member of the Church.
	She died as she lived, a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint, looking forth to a glorious resurrection, which she so
well deserves.
	Resolved, that in the death of Sister Jensen, our Society
has lost a faithful teacher and member of our Ward, a
sister and a friend, and that our loss is her gain, in which
we feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly Father.
							ANNA R. KELLER, Sec.


MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
[column one]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp. City Hall, Salt Lake City
[End Columns]

R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES.
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment ol
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORUM
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

