VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1890.		NO. 10.


CONTENTS.
	Rural Letters,—Lula.	Aunt Lu’s Story.	The
Higher Education of Women,—Mrs,	Eddy.
Notes and News. R. S. and P. A. Reports,—
Wasatch—Maricopa—Uintah. Dry Creek Dis-
trict. Relief Society Organized. Woodland Y.
L. M. I. A. Unwritten Laws for Officers of Wo-
men’s Clubs,—Amelia K. Wing. Why Jewesses
are Beautiful. To Presidents of Stake Suffrage
Associations. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference. The
Women in the Orient,—J. M. S.  In Memoriam
—Ida.
	POETRY:— Autumn,—L. M. H. Morning
Glories,—Littell’s Age. Tears Will Come,—L.
M. H. Lines in Memory,—Emma B. Coleman.


AUTUMN.
The chill winds of autumn are sighing around,
The leaves dry and wither'd fall fast on the ground,
The field-flowers blighted no longer may bloom,
O loveliest preachers, ye tell us our doom!
Thy brightness and beauty, where is it, oh where?
Thy fragrance is wasted away on the air,
Thy fresh beaming beauty, pure lovely and fair,
Where is it? oh tell me! echo answers "Aye where?"
Bright dewdrops that nourished thy buds into bloom,
That drew such gay colors from out earth's dark womb,
Exhaled with thy fragrance borne far on the air,—
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me "where?"
Thy splendid regalia of red, green and gold,
Have vanished away like a tale that is told,
Now all deadened and storm-tossed, once passing fair,—
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me "where?"
Our world seemed an Eden, most marvelous fair,
And lightened stern duty of one half its care,
Yet Autumn winds sighing repeat but my prayer,
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me  "where?"
									L. M. H.


MORNING GLORIES.

Oh. dainty daughters of the dawn, most delicate of flowers,
How fitly do ye come to deck day's most delicious hours!
Evoked by morning's earliest breath, your fragile cups
	unfold
Before the light has cleft the sky, or edged the world with
	gold.
Before luxurious butterflies and moths are yet astir,
Before the careless breeze has snapped the leaf-hung
	gossamer,
While speared dewdrops yet unquaffed by thirsty insect-
	theives,
'Broider with rows of diamonds the edges of the leaves,
Ye drink from day's o'erflowing brim, nor ever dream of
	noon,
With bashful nod ye greet the sun, whose flattery scorches
	soon,
Your trumpets trembling to the touch of humming-bird
	or bee,
In tender trepidation sweet, and fair timidity.
No flower in all the garden hath so wide a choice of hue,—
The deepest purple dyes are yours, the tenderest tints of
	blue;
While some were colorless as light, some flushed incarna-
	dine,
And some are clouded crimson, like a goblet stained with
	wine.
Ye hold not in your calm, cool hearts the passion of the
	rose,
Ye do not own the haughty pride the regal lily knows;
But ah, what blossom has the charm, the purity of his.
Which shrinks before the dearest love,and dies beneath
	a kiss?
In this wide garden of the world, where he is wise who
	knows


The bramble from the sweet-briar, the nettle from the rose
Some lives there are which seem like these, as sensitive
	and fair,
As far from thought of sin or shame, as free from stain or
	care.
The fairest are most fragile still, the world of being through
The finest spirits faint before they lose life’s morning dew,
The trials and the toils of time touch not their tender truth,
For, ere earth’s stain can cloud them, they achieve im-
	mortal youth,
—Littell's Living Age.


RURAL LETTERS.
			No. 3.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	We have as fine autumn weather in Cache
Valley this month as I ever knew of anywhere.
The evenings and early mornings are frosty
but the mid-time of day is warm and bright
with sunshine.
	The laboring men highly appreciate this
pleasant weather, as it affords them the oppor-
tunity of getting their winter supplies of fire-
wood from the canyons with so much more
ease and comfort than the same work could
be done in storms of snow and cold winds.
	The spirit of the Sixty-first semi-annual
conference of the church is being richly dif-
fused among the inhabitants here, whose
hearts are open to receive it, and who would
have been in those favored assemblies to hear
the pleasing words of God from the lips of his
Prophets, but for circumstances over which
they have had no control.  The leaven works
well.
	A Cache Valley Stake Conference of the
Relief Society was held in Logan on Monday
the 20th inst ; and the same spirit of exhorta-
tion and blessings for all, that characterized
the General R. S. Conference held at S. L.
City on the 7th inst.. rested upon the speakers
both morning and afternoon, and permeated
the hearts of the congregations.
	Taking this as a sample of the different
Stakes of Zion, have we not great reason to
rejoice that the women of the Latter-
day Saints are not all sleeping so
soundly as to let their lamps go out ? If
"five" will be counted foolish, when the com-
ing of the Bridegroom is heralded, let us be
thankful indeed that there will also be "five"
who will be wise.
	A conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake, was advertised in the R.S. Conference;
the Stake Primary Association was also
represented, showing that these organizations
are well looked after by the Sisters in charge
of them.
	Nothing new has reached me yet, in rela-
tion to the Woman’s Suffrage work in this
valley; but I am hoping for news of it soon.
	So many dear old friends and familiar
scenes of my girlhood are still to be found in
Cache Valley, that I sometimes almost for-
get the lapse of years dividing the present
from the past, when with father and mother,
brothers and sisters, I spent so many happy
days in our quiet, peaceful home.  The sur-
roundings are changed, to be sure, but not so
greatly as one might suppose in twenty years.
	 The same bright stream of water, "Summit
Creek," along whose banks I, with my sisters
gathered the sweet wild roses, wiih which to
brighten the room of some sick friend, or
make our own home more cheery, still flows


through the town.  And the "Old School
House is altered some," but still stands as a
relic of by gone days.
							LULA.
"Summit," Cache Valley.


AUNT LU'S STORY.

	Why need we pursue this subject farther?
What was this strange power, that turned these
men from the wrath of cruel murder?  The
power of love and sympathy, the power of God
unto salvation!
	These men were afterwards baptized, with
many new converts, among them our dear Mrs.
Alby, and the "staunch Presbyterian Scotch-
woman" who could not withstand the power of
conviction.
	In the conversion of these men, that Scripture
was verified which says, "I will make the
wrath of man to praise me," etc.  They have
both been on foreign missions, and spent many
"happy eventful days" since then but date
all their true happiness to the one event that
of their miraculous conversion from the power
of the "Prince of darkness," to the truth of the
"Everlasting Gospel."
	But now the tire burns brightly and its
genial warmth seems to act as a sort of sym-
pathetic magnetism upon my brain and heart
and I feel like having a little social chat with
you, who have listened so attentively to me
thus far, and if you don't mind the fatigue of
straying over meadow, field and river up hill
and down dell, we will go back to Alby 
Lodge." where in a very short time quite a
settlement has been formed by people from the
Eastern states mostly, who have taken up
claims, built log cabins nearly all of them with
thatched roofs, so that at a distance, they have
the appearance of toad-stools, scattered pro-
miscuously over the country.  They have
erected also a logcabin for a school house the
logs have the bark upon them in which they
grew; the floor is of ‘puncheons’—split logs,
the door is immense, as well as the chimney,
there are two windows one at each end of the
house, tall walnut trees spread their branches
over it as if in protection of this laborious
structure, that all the settlers have turned out
to build; and then the next thing in order was
to find a teacher; there was no one in all the
settlement who was considered competent if
they cared to teach: little Dama who is now
twelve years of age, is the nearest approach to
an educated young woman (thanks to good
mother Alby) but she has yet much to learn;
and the task of finding a teacher was assigned
to Robert.
	It must be a woman of course, on account
of cheapness, and she must be willing to
walk two miles and take her chances of an oc-
casional conveyance to and from by teams; at
this period of the world's existence, woman's
labor, in what ever vocation, was not considered
worth more than a third at least as much as a
man's, although she might perform the same
amount or more; and do her task equally as
well, or even better; that did not matter, but
the world moves, and times have changed, and
you little girls and young women may be
thankful and consider yourselves fortunate
that you came into existence to take up your
march in the battles of life, along steep paths,
and over lofty heights, made smooth by the
noble pioneers of reform!


[Column 1]
	﻿Robert wrote to his sister Lois, to find a
teacher for him, giving her to understand that
none need come expecting Citified prices or
fare; nor must ‘their teacher’ be over fastidious
or put on airs of superiority, etc.
	Miss Blanche Howard who had already 
taught two school years’ and had partly prom-
ised for another, was present when the letter
was received.  She made the acquaintance of
Mrs. Alby and Robert when visiting at Augusta
the winter previous to their departure for the
West.  She was quite a favorite of Mr. and
Mrs. Sloan, and frequently in Robert’s com-
pany; indeed she was, to use a common ex-
pression, completely captivated with Robert,
who in addition to his handsome face and
form, she had endowed with every conceivable
virtue and perfection, she was then just enter-
ing upon her fifteenth year, gifted with warm
imagination, she often found herself with bowed
head lost in deep reverie long after his de-
parture.
	But the Spring and Summer glided away,
and Autumn deeped into Winter, while she
was dreaming all sorts of fancies regarding her
heart’s idol in the far, far away wilderness
while he was entirely ignorant of the admira-
tion and love he had inspired in the heart of
Miss Blanche (as she was called). His mother
was as yet his first and dearest love, and
to her he was, notwithstanding his wild love of 
 adventure and chosen calling, a devoted and 
affectionate son.
	Two years after Robert left, Blanche was
called to mourn the sudden and untimely death 
of an only brother, for whom she grieved sin-
cerely,   for   a   time forgetting   her
habit of dreaming, or of indulging in delicious
reveries of fanciful things, in which the dull
present was completely swallowed up by the
bright future; she began to be more studious
and thoughtful of making herself useful, yet as
wealth and ease had always surrounded her,
she was not yet thoroughly aroused to any
sense of real action.  Of her mother she had
an indistinct recollection, the only instance of
which she retained vivid memory was after
her mother was prepared for burial, when she
was lifted in the arms of her father,to look her
last upon the stilled,pale face,and closed eyes of
beautiful clay, and of the grief she felt in not
being taken with the mourners to the  grave.
	A widowed aunt of her father gave to her
the only mother-love and care she could re-
member.
	Following the death of her brother (grown
to manhood) in less than two years after was
that of her only parent—then, the knowledge 
that with all his supposed wealth there would
be only a few hundred dollars remaining after
the estate was settled.
	At first she appeared to be overwhelmed 
with grief, and when her kind Pastor came to
visit her, under her great bereavement, she ex-
claimed in the bitterness of her sorrow “I have
nothing to live for! would that I could die?”
Her faithful Christian friend strove to comfort 
and divert her mind from earth to heaven, 
and when he left, a sweeter peace stole into
her heart thau had rested there since that
dreariest of all earthly sounds the fresh dug
clods upon a new made coffin covering the dust
of an idolized parent.
	Now life, with its objects and duties ap-
peared in a new view and soon resolutions of
usefulness and good filled her soul as never
before. Time’s soothing balm healed her
heart’s wounds, and new hopes sprang up to
cheer and gladden her way; notwithstanding 
the stern decree, which bade her labor for 
daily bread, and so it was, with a most cheer-
ing smile that she returned the letter placed 
in her hand to read exclaiming, “This is just 
the place for me!  Write and say that I will
come in time to make myself acquainted with
parents and children.”
[Column 2]
“Please let me have my way?" she said, as
both Mr. and Mrs. Sloan began to place
obstacles before her, pointing out difficulties 
that would be hard for her to meet, without
great strength to endure and overcome them.
Long they talked while the shadows of even-
ing gathered around, and the Summer wind
bore their words onward while it whispered to
the warm, loving heart of Blanche, of a hope
she could not form into words.
	It was in vain inducements were held out
to her by these friends, of a home with them,
or that others tried to dissuade her, her de-
termination was fixed. “There may be,” she
said, “lions in the way, and giants to fight, I
may shake with the ague, and lie on a hard
bed, as you all say everybody does who goes
West, (unless they take along a bed of feathers)
but I shall put on my armor and muster all
the martial courage needed to  ensure
triumph.”
	But just let me whisper, “Love, love, mys-
terious and wonderful;” was the secret magnet
that caused her determination to remain un-
shaken against the pleadings of friends, and
drew her forth without fear or regret into new
and untried fields, many a “God bless you,”
and “Godspeed thee!” went with her at part-
ing, while Mrs. Sloan said, “Dear Blanche, I
cannot think but that there is much happiness
in store for you; you try to make others happy,
and doing good to others is the surest way to 
bring joy into our own lives, and though trials
greater than you have yet known come upon
you, by patiently bearing them, and living for
others you will conquer them and bring that
contentment into your own heart, which is a
stranger to those whose pulsations are re-
stricted to their own narrow sphere."
	Many messages and tokens of love and
esteem were sent to distant friends some of
whom she was enjoined to visit on her journey
to “Alby Lodge.” It was not a small matter
either for a young person to take such a
journey alone ‘over the hills and far away,’
for you must bear in mind, this was before the
waters of the Mississippi had been spanned by
man’s energy and science, or the way prepared
for the iron horse that now tramps proudly 
across its majestic waters, rushes over broad
prairies, scales the mighty Alps of America,
descends mountainous declines into valleys of
marvelous cultivated beauty, snuffs the breezy
waters of the Pacific,impatiently champing as it
courses along by the restless billows of the
ocean, through orange groves, orchards of
fruit and flowers, and gardens of Eden-like
splendor that at that time were undreamed off.
	Nothing worthy of particular mention oc-
cured until she paused on her way at a beau-
tiful city, with letters of introduction to some
of the dwellers therein, from their Eastern
friends.
	Here she was received most cordially, and
was treated with great kindness and hospitality 
she made many pleasing acquaintances and
formed many friendships with a people whom
she had heard spoken of, as the "offscouring
of the earth."  To her mind they had spoken
without knowledge, for she found unmistake-
able evidence to the contrary.
	As a whole, the inhabitants appeared to be
industrious, enterprising, educated and refined.
It was indeed a beautiful city, (greatly in con-
trast with other places in the surrounding
country,) with its bright homes, neat dwellings
cultivated gardens. while its costly, noble and
magnificent marble Temple crowned the whole.
But the spirit of persecution had not ceased
with the slaying of their Prophets who had been
lured on to destruction by perfidy and premedi-
tated perjury, as was the “Morning Star of the
Reformation.” John Huss, in the fifteenth
Century and I grieve to say it, the dark cata-
logue of scenes already protrayed upon historic
pages, have not yet ceased in our own fair
[Column 3]
land.  The same spirit of intolerance,audacious-
ness, and of feverish malignance is brooding
and cowering in secret places keeping a vigi-
lant watch and envious eye upon the glorious 
upbuilding of the kingdom which it would
vainly seek to destroy.
	Blanche parted from her new-made friends,
grateful for their kindness and with a pleased
satisfaction that it was in her power to give
some bright pen-pictures, to the unenlightened
left behind, that would she thought, dissolve 
the dark ones from their sight forever.
	But the stage station is reached at last
where Miss Blanche is cordially greeted by her
escort in waiting, a tall full-bearded fine look-
ing man, who it was barely possible to recog-
nize as the Robert of her youthful dreams.
	Little Dama was there also, and to her; her 
heart went out at once as to a younger sister.
As for our little blue-eyed maiden, she felt her
heart overflowing with joyful emotion and
blissful delight at the first glimpse of her new,
and much talked of teacher.
	There could not have been a more beautiful
day than the one of Miss Blanche Howard’s
arrival. The whole air seemed palpable with
richness.  Dame Natnre had thrown over the
forests “a coat of many colors,” and the mel-
low October sunshine wrapped everything
around in a mantle of ethereal glory.
	Mrs. Alby was at the door to receive her
and her escort with loving welcome; while the
word went forth from mouth to mouth, like
wild-fire through tall prairie grass; and if
thsre had been any facilities for a grand dis-
play there would have been one most assuredly;
as it was the entire settlement was jubilant
and they all turned out enmasse to greet the
new school ma’am from '‘way down East.”
Nothing else was talked of for two weeks, the
prevailing subject was regarding the merits of
the new teacher and of the first day of school.
That first day at school! Ah what an event
to look back upon indeed; and what memories
it awakens?  Teacher and scholars on hand, 
especially the scholars,long before time to take
up the school and what a pleasing sight it is
to see the children gather round their teacher,
sometimes a little shy, but there are sunny
smiles playing ‘hide and seek’ in the merry
dimples, bright eyes, blue, black, brown, and
gray; such skipping, running, chattering etc.,
and here at the little log school house the very
birds on the tall trees above them paused to
listen. But I shall make my story too long if
I stop to tell you all that was done throughout
that happy first day, or in the days that fol-
lowed.  The games played, the stories told at
recess and in the long noon-time, suffice it to
say, all the scholars (there were but ten to
commence with) agreed that their “teacher was
just as nice and sweet as she could be.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Lillian L. Huston, bookkeeper in a
Lynn, Mass., shoe factory, received the watch
recently offered by the Weakly Bee' of that
city, in voting contest for the most popular
woman wage earner in Lynn. Miss Houston
received 19,450 votes.

	Miss Alice Longfellow, daughter of the
poet, is a fine amateur photographer, and has
made a specialty of storm pictures taken
along the Massachusetts coast. They will
illustrate a new book of sea songs which will
soon be issued.

	Massachusetts women who pay a tax on
property can still be registered to vote for
members of the school committee. A receipted
tax-bill, paid within two years, shown at the
office of the registrar in the cities, or to the
Board of Selectmen in the towns, will secure
your name on the register. 
						Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEARS WILL COME.
When the heart feels its stay is gone
	And confidence is rudely torn,
Where we had trusted much and long,
	Tears will come !

When no tender word is spoken,
	Lips keep the truth no more unbroken,
Give no smile of peace the token,
	Tears will come:

When love's flower pales and withers,
	'Til the soul with anguish quivers,
None to comfort or deliver,
	Tears will come.
							L. M. H.


LINES IN MEMORY.
OF
IDA HEYWOOD
[Who died while her father was on a mission to New
Zealand.]

In mercy our father has taken
	Our dear little Ida away,
And to sorrow or pain she'll ne'er waken,
	She'll rest till the beautiful day.

As I sit by her little white casket,
	And gaze on her sweet face so white,
Oh forgive if I sin when I ask it,
But why did her spirit take flight?

Did her aunties and grandmothers beckon
	Her spirit to leave this sad shore?
Did a thrill in their bosoms awaken
When her frail little bark started o'er

The River of Death dark and dreary!
	Upon the white shore did they stand
To welcome the lone one so weary,
	To the shores of that heavenly land?

Though the dear little bosom was heaving,
	And the frail little form writhed in pain;
We could not consent to her leaving,
	Till her father could see her again.

And we prayed to our Father in heaven,
	If only His will it might be
To spare the pure life He had given
	Till her father returned o'er the sea.

Oh sincerely we plead for this favor,
	And we clung to the beautiful child
Against hope—yet we still hoped to save her,
	But soon she looked peaceful and smiled.

And she called for her brothers and sisters,
	Then she sang in a voice, oh so sweet.
Just at midnight our goodbye we kissed her,
	Till in heaven again we shall meet.

We feel it was His will to take her
From a world where so much is impure.
	If we could, we'd be loth to awake her,
For in life there is much to endure.

Now she's safe from sin and from sorrow,
	And her absence will be oh so short,
E'en before we're prepared for the morrow,
	We'll be summoned into the port.

Oh the joy of that final blest greeting
	With all the loved ones gone before,
Hearts thrill at the thought of the meeting
	Where parting and tears are no more.
					EMMA B. COLEMAN
Alpine Ariz.


[Column 1]
THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF
		WOMEN.
AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]
	The doctrine of gifts and corresponding
accountability, is as old as the human family.
It is no more true of man than of woman.
To her, as to him God has given these mental
and moral capabilities, and to her own self
[Column 2]
first does she owe the best education that
circumstances and means will permit in order
that she may fill up her capacity for true en-
joyment. Then on the other hand, she owes it
to the world in order that she may fill up her
measure of usefulness. Woman's sphere is a
broad one. Into her hands is committed work
which even angels might enjoy, for to her is
left largely the pre-natal moulding of the next
generation, and for work so stupendous as this,
so far reaching in its results, so important to
the weal or woe of civilization, say nothing of
its eternal consequences, she should have the
constant aid of a well disciplined and well
stored mind.
	We believe no calling was ever more grand
or noble than that upon which a woman enters
when she assumes the duties of a wife and
mother, and hence needs the most careful
training, for its faithful following. The old,
yet ever true adage: "The hand that rocks
the cradle, rules the world," has been most
beautifully exemplified in the onward march
of this nation in civilization and eminence
among the nations of the earth; for who will
say that this progress has not been due more
to elevated and educated motherhood than to
any one other cause. Or, think you, had the
religion of our Lord Jesus Christ placed and
kept woman where the religions of Confucius,
Buddha and Mohammet did, and do still, that
we should be the nation we are to-day? Or, if
down through the ages. India's and China's
mothers had been partakers of even a limited
education, think you that those countries would
today be sitting in such darkness and delusion?
No wonder that the wheels of their civiliza-
tion are blocked. No wonder that in the glory
of the onward march of nations these be-
nighted countries still sit bound in chains of
ignorance and superstition, performing in-
iquitous and obscene rites to gods and god-
desses, when over 250,000,000 of their mothers
are by a lordly hand, and in the name of re-
ligion, compelled to spend the long months
and years of a lifetime within the unadorned
and dirty walls of Moslem harems and Hindoo
zenanas. And when, until recently, their girls
were not considered worth educating, and
when in India alone, 75,000 of them under
nine years of age are branded as widows, for-
bidden again the sacred rite of marriage, and
doomed to drag out the most pitiable existence
as the most menial of servants, unloved and
despised. When in these dark corners of
earth, the religion that educates and elevates
motherhood, has had sway, then, and only then
may we expect these nations to arise and take
their proper places among the nations of the
globe.
	While we believe that in the house is wo-
man's highest calling, yet it is by no means the
only one. Education has proven that she is
thoroughly competent, and often even more so
than are the men for our numerous public
school departments; and often is she deemed
more worthy as a specialist in the various de-
partments of our colleges and universities.
Then, too aside from the more common voca-
tions, telegraphy, stenography, type-writing,
book-keeping, &c., are beckoning her with
lucrative hand to enter these domains, so that
the day of woman's dependency is fast coming
to a close. She can select some employment
from the many vocations open to her, that will
not only be lucrative, but congenial. But
fifty years ago such independency would have
been impossible, unless perhaps as a house, a
mill or a shop girl with their meagre com-
pensations.
	Aside from all these, there is another class
of work for which every woman, whether
married or single, should fit herself. I refer
to the work of advocating the various re-
forms of the day which must be met and settled
before the wheels of our civilization can move
[Column 3]
on much farther. The giants of intemperance
and social impurity that are stalking so de-
fiantly over this fair land, and working such
ruin and devastation to home life, must be
met and driven to their abodes of darkness,
and principally too by the hand of woman,
for she it is who must feel most keenly the
robbing of those over whom she has spent long
years of patient toil and suffering. It is her;
sacred right to defend her home, her boys,
and her girls, and in the struggle against such
mighty foes, she needs all the help which an
enlightened and educated mind can give her
together with a heart saved and kept by a 
higher power than hers. Formerly, against
such mighty enemies, woman's tears and
prayers were considered her only weapons; but
education has given to her a voice whereby
she can formulate her prayers and tears, and
send them out in burning words, that shall
never cease to burn until, as a nation we are
purged from these evils.
	Woman's sanctified and enlightened en-
deavors, however, must not be confined to
America alone. Awaiting the efforts, both at
home and abroad of the educated women of
Christian America and England are the 250,-
000,000 of heathen women, of whom we have
already spoken, shut up from the sound of
every voice but woman's. On and on the
dark stream must go, and for the most part
into eternal night, until stopped by the in-
troduction of education linked with the
leaven of the gospel, and these can be carried
only by woman's hand. This is truly wo-
man's work for woman. Millions of doors
are not open, but where are the consecrated and
and prepared workers to enter them? And
such workers need the best equipment possi-
ble, to enable them to meet and overturn the
most subtle of sophistries that have hidden
themselves behind the ever accumlating
superstitions of the centuries.
	Thus we see that when woman's capabili-
ties are led out by a broad and thorough
training, her field of usefulness lengthens and
broadens until it is no longer bounded by
oceans, and continents, but with the immortal
Wesley, she must say, "The world is my par-
ish." And for this world of work Utah must,
and will furnish her quota of workers.
	Be it the happy privilege of this institu-
tion to give them the necessary equipment;
and on it will fall the blessings of the re-
cipients that shall come up from these fertile
valleys and mountain fastnesses and sit them
down beneath this vine of learning.
	Logan Journal, Sat. Sept 13, 1890.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mable Moore; of Worcester, Mass., has been
rewarded the $200 prize for passing the best
entrance examination to Smith College.

	The General German Woman’s Association 
has been able to give $2,250 during the last
four years to women who are studying, mostly
to medical students.

	Miss Chandler, of Lexington, has presented
the Massachusetts Historical Society with an
interesting relic, a mourning ring given at
the funeral of George Burnett in 1729.

	Prof. Austin Phelps, for many years con-
nected with Andover Theological Seminary,
and father of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, died at
Bar Harbor, ou the 13th of Oct.

	R. G. Young, of Helena, Mont., writes to
the Journal of Education: “In 1889, of the
sixteen county superintendents in Montana,
twelve were women. If there is any state in
America that can show a larger per cent. of
women county superintendents let it speak,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
 one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in this
city October 7, 1890, commencing at 10 a. m.,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the stand
with the President were Mrs. B. W. Smith her
second Counselor, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Secretary Mrs. E.
B. Wells Cor. Sec’y. and Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and several of the Presidents of the Relief Society
of the different Stake organizations. Meeting
opened with that beautiful hymn,
		“O, my Father, thou that dwellest.”
	An eloquent prayer was offered by Bishop
Madsen of Gunnison. Continued by singing
		"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord.”
	Minutes of the morning session of the April
Conference were read by the Cor. Sec’y. and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Zina Young welcomed the congregation
in her kindliest manner and spoke of the interest-
ing General Conference of the Saints which had
just closed the day before. “Truth is sweeter
than honey in the honeycomb, and we have re-
ceived so much of it from the servants of the
Lord during the last few days. I appreciate the
efforts of the sisters who have exerted themselves
to come long distances to attend this Confer-
ence.
	Pres. M. I. Horne reported the R. S. in Salt
Lake Stake, said we have 44 branches all wide
awake; no difficulties in any of them. We have
demonstrated that our associations are elevating
in their tendency, many hundreds have been
blest through the R. S. Spoke of the Savior’s
words and exhortations to well-doing and urged
all to keep the commandments of our Heavenly
Father.
	Mrs. Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake, “I feel
very proud to be here this morning. We have 22
branches in our Stake, it reaches from Woodruff,
Rich Co. to Soda Springs including Star Valley.
We hold our Conferences twice a year. We visit
as often as we can possibly do so—it is hard on
account of the distances we have to travel, but
the Lord blesses our efforts, ours is a cold cli-
mate, long winters, I see many here whom I
knew in Nauvoo and it gives me great joy.
	Panguitch Stake reported by Mrs. --------
it has 9 branches, the distance to travel
in order to visit all is very great.
	Mrs. Eliza Hall reported the Relief Society of
Malad, there were 10 branches, and all in good
condition.
	Mrs. Mary Pitchforth Pres, of R. S. Juab Stake,
5 branches all in good working order,Nephi which
had formerly been in one ward had recently been
divided into two wards and their Relief Society
Hall had been sold for sufficient means to build

[Column 2]
one for each ward with a very little added. “We
have to help the poor none need be in want;
spiritually and financially we are in good condi-
tion,” gave excellent advice upon principle and
and urged the sisters to hold fast to every prin-
ciple revealed and trust in the Lord for the out-
come.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. R. S. Cache Stake,
“as the daughters of our Father in heaven we
have a mission to cultivate ourselves spiritually,
and to comfort each other and bless the sick and
the poor. We have also the saving of grain
given us to do, the brethren have not encouraged
us much in this work. I try to visit all the 20
branches in our Stake once a year, but I am
working in the Temple and have less time to visit
than some others, but I know it is good to visit
the sisters and I feel to say to my sisters, look up
and be comforted, and try and do all the work
you can for the dead,prayed we might be a band of
sisters working together in unity and we would
be blessed, we are prospered this season with
rich harvests let us not forget to be grateful.
	Mrs. Emma Jane Bennett Counselor in R. S.
Beaver Stake, they had 5 wards all in good order,
the sisters all express themselves satisfied and
happy, we try to visit our Stake twice a year,
there are quite a number of sisters who do not
join us in our work, perhaps they feel a little too
young and too old for the Young Ladies Asso-
ciations. We have a Committee to attend to the
saving of grain; these sisters go out with a team
when it is harvest time and solicit donations.
We hold our Conferences quarterly and have
weekly prayer meetings from which we realize a
blessing. If we do our duty from day to day the
Lord will make it plain for us. May He bless us
in all our endeavors to do good.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Pomeroy Pres. Maricopa Stake,
we are trying to do our duty, we hold quarterly
Conferences, and there are a few sisters who are
always faithful. We have had a great deal of
sickness in Mesa Ward. The Relief Society have
built a brick house, it was six months from the
time the first brick was laid until it was com-
pleted. The Y. L. and P. A. are doing a good
work. I attended their Conferences. It was re-
marked when Sister Mc’Donald left our place
that it would be difficult to get any one to fill her
place, and I remember saying whoever the pre-
siding priesthood select we must sustain, little
thinking it would be myself; and I feel it a great
responsibility. I feel well repaid for the long
journey I have taken to come here and attend the
Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg Pres. R. S. Box Elder
Stake, realized fully that she was standing before
many true and noble women, who had passed
through much sorrow and had performed a labor
of love. She desired to give a little report of the
good earnest sisters among whom she visited and
to tell how much the visits from place to place
had taught her. There are fifteen branches and
it takes two weeks to go and come. Our Presi-
dent of the Stake always fixes up two carriages
and invites the President of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions and we travel together among the people.
Some of them are poor in circumstances do not
have means at their command but they have
homes and comforts and are living their religion
and keeping the commandments given to the
Saints. Sister Harriet Snow left a good example
and we all desire to imitate her. Our Relief
Society is in a good condition. We have our
Scandinavian Society for the sake of the older
sisters who cannot speak the language, they
have an emigration fund and have emigrated 37
or 39 sisters, who all have remained faithful since
their coming.
	Mrs. Susan Grant Pres. R S. Davis Stake
stated that they had 9 branches in that Stake and

[Column 3]
that there were many faithful, energetic sisters in
the organization; Kaysville R. S. had recently
been divided, and she and her Counselors had
been invited to attend the meeting  when the
Society was divided; a wife of George D. Watts
had been appointed to preside, she was the
daughter of the late Brother Golightly of this
City, in her husband’s lifetime she had not the
privilege of attending meetings; the Society in
that Stake were taking care of the needy and the
sick and laying up grain and doing their duty as
far as they had an understanding.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Fox Pres. R. S. Oneida Stake
said there were 18 branches in that Stake and it
was necessary to go over a great deal of ground
when they visited the whole, but tried to visit all
once a year. This year Sister E. S. Taylor Pres.
of Y. L. and Sister Louie Felt Pres. P. A. had
made the tour with them and had a very good
time. Afterwards the Presidency of the Stake
went round and wherever they went the people
would say “Didn’t we have a good time when the
sisters were here?” One Bishop who had just or-
ganized a R. S. in his ward was glad for the sake
of his own wife, she thought that pretty good tes-
timony; they held Conference once a year in
Franklin, the others were really district confer-
ences for the sake of those who could not come so
far to attend.
	Counselor B. W. Smith wanted the sisters to
be sure and comfort the poor and the sick, the
cast down and distressed. When Brother Joseph
used to come and talk to us, when Sister Emma
was President, Sister Whitney and Sister Cleve-
land were her Counselors, committees were ap-
pointed to visit, but we had poverty then and
were unacquainted with the duties that we have
learned since, but my advice is ‘never let any one
suffer that we could look after and help. We
have had so much good counsel and encourage-
ment we should never have our faith weakened,
this is a good time, the Lord is prospering his
work.” Singing, Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session, opened by singing,
		"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
	Prayer by Coun. B. W. Smith, singing,
		"Hail to the brightness of Zions’s glad morning."
	The Cor. Sec’y. then read the minutes of the
afternoon of the previous Conference which were
approved, also a letter containing a written report
of the condition of St. Joseph Stake from the
President of the Relief Society of that Stake Mrs.
Willmirth East.
	The President of the Conference Mrs. Zina
Young made a few remarks and called for a rep-
resentative from Utah Stake. Mrs. Emily Cluff
Counselor gave a good report, said the sisters
were energetic in attending meetings and in all
good works, the President and her Counselors
made a point of visiting through the county once
in 6 months; spoke very nicely of the Kanaka
sisters out in Josepha where she had been presid-
ing of late, said those sisters could teach us some
lessons in promptness and diligence.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake
stated there were 18 branches where she presided
and she had visited most of them recently, they
held quarterly Conferences in the different towns
alternately; this year the harvest had been boun-
tiful and they were taking care of the wheat, she
spoke upon other interesting subjects and bore a
strong testimony.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the excellent re-
port that had been prepared, and the labor it was
to compile it perfectly, and asked that a vote be
taken whether the whole report be read or only
the totals; it was decided to have the totals read.
Dr. R. B. Pratt the Ass’t. Sec’y. read the totals
of the R. S. Report and it was approved.
	Mrs. Temperance Hinckley Pres. R. S. Ban


[Column 1]
﻿nock Stake, said they labored under great dis-
advantages in visiting through their Stake, as
they had to cross the Snake River, and sometimes
in boats as it could not always be forded, she had
visited all round this year in July, the sisters there
tried to live up to their privileges.
	Mrs. Clara Beecher reported Cassia Stake as
in very good condition, said “we have a noble
President in Sister Louisa Haight.”
	Coun. Martha Hammond of R. S. San Juan
Stake said we hold our Conferences twice a
year and change them here and there to permit
all to have an apportunity of attending the con-
ferences. We have long distances to travel and
not so many privileges as those who live nearer,
but we have many good sisters and they are de-
sirous of doing a good work.
	Mrs. Mary E. Farr Sec. R. S. St. John’s Stake
said the sisters there were energetic in doing all
they could to aid the human family, “our sisters
have not the privilege of the presence of the lead-
ing sisters not even once in a while, it would be
good if we could have them, the Stake has been
visited just recently, our conferences are held
semi-annually, we are not as rich as some but we
are trying to live our religion.”
	Mrs. Louisiana Heppler reported R. S. Sevier
Stake, and gave a good account of the condition
of the Society there, said the sisters love spiritual
food, we are very  near something, some crisis!
exhorted the mothers to prepare themselves to
answer all the questions the children ask, she
had traveled in company with the Pres. of Y. L.
through the Stake just before coming to Confer-
ence, and had heard the young women speak of
their great desire to become honorable mothers;
many of our people have music in their homes
which is very inspiring, and the associations
have manuscript papers; our girls will work hard
during the summer season to get means to go to
the Richfield Academy, spoke of her own large
family; and her ardent desire to see them all do-
ing right.
	Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster Pres. of R. S.
Cedar City reported the R. S. of Parowan Stake,
there are 5 branches, we change our Conferences
from place to place alternately, we comfort the
sorrowing, spoke of the storing of grain, said she
felt proud to be associated with such good sisters
gave some of her experiences in crossing the
plains in the handcart company; exhorted
mothers to diligence and firmness for the right in
dealing, with their children, spoke particularly
upon the necessity of honesty and truthfulness.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Yates Pres. R. S. Millard Stake
“we have a good band of sisters united and trying
to do their duty, visiting the sick, the poor and the
sorrowing, our settlements are very far apart
but we instruct our officers and teachers in their
duties in separate meetings. Apostles F.M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant have recently visited us and
given us just the instructions we needed; there
has been a great improvement in the sisters the
last two years.”
	Pres. Zina Young presented some items of
business, said each President should report the
times of holding the Conferences in her Stake to
the Cor. Sec’y. Mrs. E. B. Wells, so that we
can arrange for visiting and be prepared to do so.
Spoke to the sisters in regard to sustaining their
paper the EXPONENT, “through its columns we
can speak to each other, and to the world, can
know how each Society is prospering and make
our work more uniform. Every President of the
Relief Society should take it and use her influ-
ence to have it sustained by others. It is our
Father’s love for us that has caused his priest-
hood to organize us and we should honor our
position and seek to improve. The President
earnestly entreated the mothers to take more
pains to teach and encourage their children in 
the principles of their religion. “This is the time
of times among the nations, never has there been
[Column 2]
such a time since the days of our Savior. How
many mothers realize the responsibility of their
family; sometimes when I think of it I feel al-
most as if I should dissolve! mothers take care
of your sons, make them strong to resist temp-
tation, and your daughters that they may be pure'
and wise and prudent—and become better
mothers through your training and example
Sisters in the Society go on and build your houses
and hold your meetings and you will be blest;
when I hear the sisters say they go out hundreds of
miles to visit, I feel they are blessed of the Lord,
it is a work of love, let us be patient and joyful
and tender, be willing to sacrifice; well might
Joseph the Prophet say “elect ladies" if he could
look upon these noble women that are here as-
sembled. Sisters strengthen the Primary Asso-
ciations and the Young Ladies’ how many times
I think of the saying, “If ye love me feed my
sheep,” it is the spirit that is resting upon me by
day and by night. Sister Zina then spoke very
impressivly in the gift of tongues. Dr. Barney
gave the interpretation.
	Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury Counselor R. S. in St.
George Stake represented the organizations, said
that in visiting with President Ivins they found
some who were remiss, and needed encourage-
ment and they promised to do better in attending
to their duties, the blessing of the Lord was with
them when they traveled in the interest of the
Society; spoke of the discouragements they had
in trying to raise silk, said they had every natural
facility, the climate, the mulberry trees, and the
boys and girls to work in it, but lacked the money
necessary to make it a success.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec’y of Tooele R. S.
represented that Stake, said Tooele and Grants-
ville organizations were in good condition but
the smaller ones were behind and needed build-
ing up.
	Mrs. Emma Brown Pres. Wasatch R. S. spoke
of the blessings they had received in that Stake
and their good conferences, all was prosperous.
	Mrs. Emeretta Randall was asked to represent
Weber Stake but excused herself, and said she
felt well in the Gospel and spoke eloquently in
the gift of tongues, Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	The secretary Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spoke of
some mistakes, changes had been made and the
matter not referred to the General Presidency of
the Relief Society, branches should refer to the
Stake Presidency and she hoped the sisters would
come to a better understanding of these things.
One of the advantages of the organization is that
we may become disciplined and discipliniarians
and we cannot do this unless we observe order,
and in this we learn to do things correctly.
	The President then made some closing re-
marks, said comfort the weak and strengthen their
hands, we have had an excellent Conference the
last few days, it is the testimony of all I’ve heard
speak that it was the best Conference we ever
had, and the united support and confidence in
the “Official Declaration” of the President was
indicative of its strength.
	There never was a time when the Presidency
and the Twelve were so united as they are to-
day and we shall go on and increase until the vic-
tory is ours.		
	Conference adjourned until April 1890; sing-
ing,
			"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
	Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.

	It seems to be common to all nations over
whom the principles of Christianity have either
no influence at all or only a partial influence, to
assign to the women a place of unwarranted in-
feriority both in the family and in the society at
large. This is readily seen in the Orient both
among the Jews, Mohammedans and nominal
Christians, but particularly among the Moham-
medans. And this needs to be seen before any-
one can appreciate the wonderful changes that the
principles of Christianity have wrought in this respect.
	The advent of a boy in an Oriental family is
always the occasion of rejoicings and congratula-
tions. Friends from far and near on this occasion
give expression to their feelings of pleasure. But
when a girl is born, there are no outward tokens
of joy in the family and no congratulations from
friends. All are silent. "Only a Girl!" The
event is not worth while mentioning. Women
and men in those strange Eastern countries feel
alike upon this subject.
	I never came across a family the head of which
thought they had too many boys, but on more
than one occasion I met people who gave me to
understand that they thought Providence had not
been entirely kind to them, seeing that they had
more girls than boys among the children. And
one mother–she had five daughters–offered me
as a present a dark, bright looking little girl with 
jet black hair and brown eyes, which offer, I re-
gret to say, I had to respectfully decline.
	There is a natural cause for this peculiar feel-
ing towards the girls. These are entirely con-
fined to the duties of the house or to the less re-
munerative work, while to the boys the oppor-
tunities of mingling with life in all its features are
open. They are thereby enabled to earn a living
for themselves and for the parents, which they
very frequently do. For it can not be denied
that children as a rule are affectionate to their
parents. And not seldom the boys make all the 
living for the family. The girls on the other hand
have no chance except to attend to attend to the
domestic duties and fetch a price on the matri-
monial market.
	It is well known that in the Orient the boys
have to give for their brides an equivalent in
money or other valuables. The price of a girl
varies very much according to circumstances.
Has the girl a fair complextion and gracefully de-
veloped form she will be held in high price. But
if she is dark and not very well developed, she is 
as likely to be left as not, or the parents will have
to give her away. $200, I was told was the
regular price for a goodlooking girl in a little
village situated one day's journey north of Jeru-
salem. The price was considered high at that
place. It must be remembered, however, that
the parents of the girl who is to be married are
supposed to to endow their daughter with prop-
erty in value equal to the sum the bridegroom
has paid for her. The bargain amounts therefore
really to a trade and nothing more. It must also
be added that the parents usually keep one third
of the property that was to have been conveyed
over to the bridegroom with the bride, in case
he should prove faithless and abandon his wife.
This reserve fund, if I so may call it, is then for-
feited.
	The intellectual training of the girls is generally
neglected. They are very seldom taught to read
and write. Among the lower classes of the Mo-
hammedans can probably not be found a woman
who has mastered the intricacies of the Arabian
alphabet. It is somewhat better in this respect
among the Jews and the various 'Christian' sects.
Among these I frequently met with ladies who
could read their respective languages.
	Even on the religious domain the women seem 
to take a back seat. The holy book of the Mo-
hammedans has very few provisions for women.
I never saw a Mohammedan woman pray, all
though men are frequently seen praying both in 
the mosques and in their homes. The duty of
worshipping God appeared to be one incumbent
only on the men.
	It is not easy to understand how this deplorable


state of things has come to exist. That it is an
anomaly I think all will admit. I put it in con-
nection with the state of serfdom in which the
whole population is held. The causes that led to
the political enslaving of those millions naturally
would lead to a lowering of the estimation of the
women. Could the people be educated up to a
point where they could appreciate political liberty,
they would soon expel from their homes,and their
families, all that binds some of the members in
thraldom. For no one who really loves liberty
for himself can feel happy in seeing the slavery
of another, that is to say, if he is a morally good
being. Political and religious liberty is needed
for the vast millions of the Orient, and before this
has been gained, I am afraid there will be little
hope for the women of those vast regions.
								J. M. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Martha Bowker Young wife of the late Presi-
dent Brigham Young and daughter of Samuel and
Hannah Bowker, died Sept. 26, 1890. Deceased
was born near Mount Holley, Burlington Co..
New Jersey, and was 68 years old when she died.
	She lived the life of a true Latter-day Saint
ever patient and willing to honor God's priest
hood in every sense of the word.
	One thing that was remarkable about her was
that she was never known to wear any trimmed
dresses, or do anything that was against retrench-
ment which her husband Brigham Young had
preached so many years and tried to carry out
through his life.
	Many sacrifices were made by Sister Martha
and she has certainly gone to reap an abundant
harvest for the good seed she has sown which
thousands of the Latter-day Saints might be
proud of. Though she had no children of her
own, she showed the most tender and loving
motherly care to a little girl whom she adopted
when only three months old. A true and loving
mother she was in very deed and great will be
her reward.

	'Tis ha.d to break the tender chord,
		When love has bound the heart;
	'Tis hard, so hard, to speak the words,
		Must we in sorrow part?

	Dearest loved one we have laid thee
		In the peaceful grave's embrace;
	But thy memory will be cherished,
		Till we see thy heavenly face..

										IDA.


[Column 1]
		R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
			WASATCH STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of Wasatch Stake
held a conference in Heber City, Thursday
morning 10, a. m. Sept. 18th 1890. Sister
Louie B. Felt General Pres., and Miss May
Anderson of Salt Lake City were present.
Most of the branch associations were represented
and a programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions and class exercises, was creditably rend-
ered by the children.

	In the afternoon at 2 p. m. the Y. L. As-
sociations of the stake met in conference and
had a very nice meeting. Miss Murdock was
chosen and unanimously voted in as Stake
Sec'y.
	Brother Hatch Pres. of the Stake and quite
a few other brethren attended both meetings
and expressed themselves well pleased with
the conference.
	Sister Felt addressed both meetings.
	The Stake house in which the meetings were
held is a handsome stone building of which the
saints of Wasatch are justly proud.
			MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec.
[Column 2]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of R. S. Conference at Mesa, Mari-
copa Co., A. T. Sep. 18th 1890. Coun. Sarah
E. Russel presiding. Opened by the usual ex-
ercises.
	Pres M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
they had been quite energetic in many things,
but of late not quite so punctual in attending
meetings as they should have been.
	Pres. Lizzie Mc'Donald said the Lehi Ward
were doing a good work and faithfully trying
to do their duty.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman gave a good report of
the Alma Ward, also some wise counsel.
	Coun. Sarah Tiffany reported the Papago
Ward, had held their meetings regularly and
were moving along as well as they could.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw gave encouraging re-
ports of the Nephi Ward and bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the great Latter-day
work.
	Pres. C. I. Robson then gave some timely
advice and instruction; after which Coun.
Sarah A. Robson, Sarah M. Johnson, Sarah
Phelps, Eleanor Morris, Sister Hunsaker and
Henrietta Standage each bore their testimony
and a good spirit generally prevailed.
	Brother Noah Brimhall addressed the meet-
ing for a short time when the conference was
adjourned for three months.
				F. E. ROBSON, Sec.		
UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifth conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion convened
in the Ashley Ward meeting house, Sep. 1st
1890.
	Pres Sarah Pope presiding, singing "Praise
ye the Lord," prayer by Sister A. K. Bartlett,
singing "Once more my soul the rising day."
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Pres. Sarah Pope, supposed it was on ac-
count of the brethren being so busy with their
teams that there were so few present. Hoped
all had the spirit of the Lord with them, and
if they had we would be able to have a good
meeting if there were but few. Thought all
ought to serve God the few years they were
permitted to live on this earth, for it was but
a moment compared with the ages of eternity
Said we should lay up grain and take care of
it for time of need, asked the Lord to bless us
that those who spoke might do so with His
spirit that we might have a good conference.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchell felt as though we
could have a good time any way, felt to press
forward although she felt very weak, but
would respond to every call that was made
upon her, endorsed the remarks of Pres. Sarah
Pope.
	Bishop Geo. Freestone said it was rather
unexpected to him to be called upon. Thought
the sisters were more energetic in their duties
than the brethren. Thought all ought to press
forward and not tire when the journey was
about through, for the day is not far distant
when the Saints will come off triumphant;
the darkest hour is always just before day, gave
many good instructions to all which were very
appropriate.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett reported the Relief
Society of Ashley Ward as being in a fair con-
dition.
	Sister Olmy spoke about being at the Temple
said she had had a good time; spoke of the
necessity of taking care of our wheat for Heber
C. Kimball had said that the time would come
when a barrel of flour would be worth a
barrel of gold, and the Relief Society was
called upon by Pres. Young to lay up what
grain they could for that time, thought Utah
was blessed with good crops and the sisters
should take care of it, not run in debt at the
stores so that, every bushel of grain would
[Column 3]
have to go to pay the bills. Prayed the Lord
to bless all.
	Sister Wimmer gave in the report of the
Mountain Dell Relief Society. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Lift up your
heads ye scattered saints." Benediction by
Pres. Sarah Pope.

	Afternoon session: Singing "Away with
our fears," prayer by Sister Oaks, singing "May
we who know the joyful sound." Reports of
Merill, Riverdale, Glines and Mill Ward Relief
Society by the different presidents.
	Bro. R. S. Collett said those who preside
need all the encouragement possible by good
attendance. I was thinking how perfect the
different organizations were, if the world knew
this they would not wonder at our strength
today. We should look after the poor, we
should not stop and question whether they are
members of the Church or not; it matters not
if they are in need they should be helped.
And gave some very good instructions to all
on the duties of husbands and wives which
were very interesting.
	Sister Oaks made some remarks upon prayer
and faith and said Brother Collett has said a
man's work was from sun till sun but a wo-
man's work is never done; this is a true saying
for mother's mind is never at rest she is always
trying to instil something good into the minds
of her children; we want to try to have peace
and quietude in our homes so the spirit of God
will dwell therein; asked the blessings of God
to rest upon all.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett could not say like
some that she could talk better when there
were a few; for the greater the flow of the
spirit the more we should be able to say;
let us take care of our wheat how
would we as mothers feel to have our child-
ren crying for bread, and we had none to give
them; some of us know what this is. There
is a great deal of work to do in these organiza-
tions; looking after the sick and poor among
us, there are very few of us who are independ-
ent of this Society. There is not a mother
under the sound of my voice that does not
shudder when she thinks of the temptations
that surround our children; we as mothers,
must be humble and prayerful in order to
have any control over our children gave many
good instructions to all.
	Pres. Sarah Pope gave the sisters some good
instructions in regard to their duties, exhort-
ing them to faithfulness; and closed by ask-
ing the blessings of God to rest upon all.
Conference adjourned until the first Monday
in March. Singing "Beautiful land of rest."
Benediction by Bishop Nathan Hunting.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


DRY CREEK DISTRICT.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
The sisters of Dry Creek were organized as
a branch of Draper Relief Society Mar. 22,
1888: by Sister Catherine Smith, President of
Draper R. S. and her counselors; through the
counsel of Bishop I. M. Stewart.
	Phebe Taylor was appointed to preside
over meetings, Fidelia E. Nelson secretary,
Harriet Eddins treasurer, Rose M. Cunliffe
was afterwards chosen as assistant secretary.
	There being no needy in the district, the
sisters have lent their energies principally to
the benefit of the sabbath school and the
building of the schoolhouse: the house being
one built by donation and belonging to a
Draper Ecclesiastical Assosiation.
	The training and leading of the minds of
our children in the proper direction are
matters of great importance to the mothers
here, and as there are over forty children
between three and fourteen; a Primary Asocia-
tion would be invaluable. Applications for


one have been made, but perhaps not to
proper authority, so hoping that the presi-
dency of the Primary of this Stake will notice
this small article and favor our children
with an organization within the near future,
we subscribe ourselves your co-workers,
PHEBE TAYLOR
FIDELIA E. NELSON.
Dry Creek Oct. 6, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
	Minutes of Organization of Relief Society
for the second ward of Kaysville. Meeting
held Sept. 11th 1890. Sister Elizabeth G.
Watt was unaminously sustained as President
with Sister Amanda Pilling as Secretary.
	Minutes of meeting for completing the
organization of the Relief Society held Sept.
25th 1890.
	President Sister Elizabeth G. Watt having
reported the names of Sisters Mary A. Adams,
and Sarah Watt as her choice for Counselors
their names were presented and they were
unanimously sustained as such. Sister Alice
A. Whitesides was unanimously sustained as
Treasurer of this Society.
	Number of Members whose names are
already enrolled:—23.
			AMANDA A. PILLING. Sec.


WOODLAND Y. L. M. I. A. H.
				———
	Minutes of Annual meeting of the Y. L. A.
held in Woodland Ward, Sept. 28th. There
being present on the stand Bishop Moon and
Counselors, Pres. Hatch and Duke, Sister
Duke President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of Wasatch Stake and Counselor
Alexander, also Sister Ruth Hatch and Sister
Nicholson.
	Meeting opened by singing "Now let us re-
joice." Prayer by Brother Nephi Thayne,
continued, singing "Do what is right." The
roll was called showing an attendance of 18
members. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	The programme was then proceeded with
as follows:
	Bible reading by Amanda Moon, Hattie
Neiber then read "A glass railroad," in a
very commendable manner; a correspondence
between Pres. Hanson and Ida Hoag, subject
"Goodwill and charity to one another."
	"People will talk," was then read in a very
pleasing manner by Lydia Moon. Pres. Han-
son and Lois Benson sang "Oh! how lovely
was the morning." The regular programme
then being finished.
	Pres. Duke then spoke a few moments say-
ing she was well pleased with the programme,
hoped we would continue in well doing, ad-
vised the young girls to select a partner in
life who was of the same faith as themselves,
and to always make a confident of their
mother; she thought it would be well for two
or three members to get together and visit
those that did not attend, some little good
might come of it.
	Sister Nicholson gave some good advice and
counsel, said she was pleased to see the ad-
vancement in the young ladies as they once
belonged to the Primary.
	Sister Alexander then called upon the Lord to
bless us.
	Sister Ruth Hatch said it was pleasant to
be with the young ladies in the capacity of a
meeting and to note their well doing. Felt it
was a noble work.
	Brother Duke said he felt pleased to be
numbered with the Saints, was pleased to see
each one take their part so well; advised all to
study that which was elevating to the human
mind; each one taking their part when called
upon all could be mutually benefited.


Pres. Hatch said the development of the
past will be no comparison to the develop-
ment of the future.  That it would do no good
to talk on honor, virtue and other good sub-
jects unless we let them sink down into our
hearts.  He liked good intellectual feasts, ad-
vised all that could to go to school; and all to
strive to gain intelligence. Felt pleased with
the proceedings of the day.
	Bishop Moon said he felt pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks from the visitors, hoped
each one would try to put the good counsel 
into practice.  That all ought to do their best
to attend the meetings as there we could gain
knowledge if it was sought after with a pure
humble spirit.
	Meeting then adjourned by singing “Praise
to the man.” Prayer by Coun. Ephraim Lam-
bert.
				Murzie Hanson, Pres.
				Ida Hoag, Sec. Pro tem.


[column 1]
UNWRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
BY AMELIA K. WING.
THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
	The requisites for a recording secretary not
set forth in the books are a clear, distinct
voice and manner of reading, and an orderly
and impartial habit of thought. Very simple
minutes can be made interesting by effective
utterances, and elaborate reports are often
sadly marred by a hurried manner, or a voice
that is pitched too low.
	Money decisions, elections and every
subject decided by vote, should always be re-
corded, but matters that are simply discussed
without, may often be omitted, unless the
subject is tabled for future consideration.
	In reporting papers that are read, a secretary
should avoid prolixity, entering only the
general line of thought.
	Club members are usually impatient during
the reading of a lengthy review of the
previous meeting, considering it a waste of
time.
	A secretary’s duty is simply to record, not
to express her own opinion; an annual report
however admits of more latitude. Her books
should be neatly kept, without crowding, with
full date, year, month and day preceding each
meeting, and with marginal notes to facilitate
references.
	THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
	It is understood that the corresponding
secretary should write a legible, business-like
hand, absolutely correct in style. Notices of
meetings and all notifications may be as brief
as possible and give the required information;
but let not the secretary be tempted by the
accumulation of notes to a discourteous brevity
in other correspondence.
	A personal note written with evident pains
to suit the individual case, is often a source of
great satisfaction. and reflects credit on the
club.
	THE TREASURER.
	A prompt, correct and efficient treasurer is
difficult to find, owing to the lack of training
women usually receive in this direction.
	Accuracy is, of course, the first requisite.
The bills for annual dues should be sent
promptly,in accordance with the requirements
of the by-laws,and the receipted bills returned
at once on receiving the money, the date be-
ing affixed to everything. Strictly business
methods seem to give the best results in money
matters.
	If a member is delinquent, simply sending
a second bill when the time has expired will
usually give the least offense.  Any attempt
[column 2]
at a courteous request might say too much or
too little. Whereas the purely business
method is absolutely impersonal, and carries
the idea of a like treatment for all.
	Should the second notice fail to secure a re-
sponse, the matter may then be refered to the
board of directors, to be treated according to
the constitution.
	The treasurer should not consider it an in-
terference on the part of any officer or member
to be asked the condition of the finances, and
in her annual report the expenditure should be
given in detail.
	THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	All the business of the club should be
decided by the board of directors, except such
subjects as require the co-operation of all the
members. The chairman should come to the
meetings with a full knowledge of the business
to be transacted, but she should never decide
any matter without first submitting it to the
full board, and she should report the proceed-
ings to the club meetings.
	The stationery and postage of the above
officers should be supplied by the club, as it is
manifestly unjust to require this expense in
addition to the time and labor given.
	CUSTODIANS
	If the club has well attended meetings,
custodians are most desirable, to have charge
of the arrangement of the seats, ventilation,
seating, etc. If possible they should be
familiar with the faces of the members, they
should welcome guests, and should always be
present half an hour before the opening of the
meetings.
	CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES.

	The chairmen should call their committee
together in ample time for the duties required
and should carry the same spirit of impartiality
into their work that is recommended for the
guidance of the president always taking pains
to call out and develop any latent ability.
Upon the chairman depends much of the real
life of the club.
	Each officer should avoid assuming the
work of the other officers, and should never
accept an office unless she has sufficient time
for its duties. All should make themselves
thoroughly acquainted with these duties as
required in the club constitutions.
	If officers enter upon their work with a
real interest and enthusiasm, coupled with
knowledge, they will invest their club with
that indefinable something which we call in-
fluence and character, and will find it a mental
discipline and development seldom equalled, as
well as a source of genuine pleasure.
				The Woman's Cycle.


WHY JEWESSES ARE BEAUTIFUL.
Chateaubriand gives a fanciful but agreeable
reason for the fact that the Jewish women are
so much handsomer than the men of their
nation. He says Jewesses have escaped the
curse which alighted upon their fathers, hus-
bands and sons. Not a Jewess was to be seen
among the crowd of priests and rabble who
insulted the Son of God, scourged him,
crowned him with thorns, and subjected him to
infamy and the agony of the cross. The women
of Judea believed in the Savior, and assisted
in soothing him under affliction. A woman of
Bethany poured on his head precious ointment
which she kept in a vessel of alabaster The
sinner anointed his feet with perfumed oil, and 
wiped them with her hair. Christ on his part
extended mercy to the Jewess. He raised from
the dead the son of the widow of Nain, and
Martha's brother Lazarus. He cured Simon's
mother-in-law, and the woman who touched the


hem of his garment. To the Samaritan wo-
man he was a spring of living waters, and a
compassionate judge of the woman in adultery.
The daughters of Jerusalem wept over him;
the holy women accompanied him to Calvary,
brought him balm and spices, and weeping,
sought him in the sepulchre. "Woman, why
weepest thou? His first appearance after the
resurrection was to Mary Magdalene. He said
to her, "Mary!" At the sound of his voice,
Mary Magdalene's eyes were opened, and she
answered "Master." The reflection of some 
ray must have rested upon the brow of the
Jewess.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TO PRESIDENTS OF STATE SUFF-
RAGE ASSOCIATION.

	The presidents of all the State Women
Suffrage Associations auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. are reminded that it will
be their duty to prepare a report of the year's
work in their States, and have it ready to
send to the corresponding secretary of the
National-American W. S. A. by Jan. 1, 1891;
and also to see that a list of names and
addresses of members of each State W. S. A.
is prepared and sent to the treasurer of the
National-American W. S. A. Jan. 1, 1891, as
required by the constitution.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL.
Cor. Sec'y. N. A. W. S. A.


A Roumanian princess has given to
benevolent institutions the whole income of
the fortune left by her husband, and has be-
come a waiter in a children's hospital at Jassy,
which she helps to support.

	Rev. Olympia Brown and Susan B. Anthony
addressed the Edmunds County S. D., Equal
Suffrage Convention, at Ipswich, on Thursday.
Eight of the townships were represented, and
six committees were appointed to make a 
thorough house to house canvass of the
country. It was the largest audience assembled
in Ipswich for a long time, and nearly every
man present donned the yellow ribbon.

	East Tpwas is no place for a womanhater,
as here is a town which the ladies run. One
is a postmaster; another has the telegraph
office and has female messenger boys, another
runs the best hotel; lady printers get out the
weekly newspaper, a lone woman manages a
big tea house and two others have general
stores; the schoolteachers are women, and so
are the store clerks. This is a good town to
tie to.—Detroit (Mich.) News. 

	Miss Minerva Parker, whose plans for the
Queen Isabella pavilion, at the Chicago
World's Fair, were preferred to all others by
the committee on the building, is a native of
Chicago, but is settled in Philadelphia. She 
studied at the Pryne Art School, took a
two years' course and graduated at the 
Franklin Institute, and finished her art educa-
tion at the School of Design. She gives
domestic architecture her special attention 
having designed houses at Johnstown, Radnor,
Elm Stations, Overbrook, Lansdowne, and 
Berwyn, among other places in Pennsylvania.
Miss Parker is the only woman architect in 
Philadelphia.


MISCELLANEOUS.
Energy, invicible determination, with a
right motive, are the levers that move the
world.–Noah Porter.
	The man who has so little knowledge of 
human nature as to seek happinsss by chang-
ing anything but his own dispositions will


waste his life in fruitless efforts and multiply
the griefs which he purposes to remove. –
	The best dowry to advance the marriage of
your child with one who will render her
happy is that she have in her countenance
sweetness and gentleness, in her speech wisdom,
in her behavior modesty; and in her life
virtue.
	Dissumulation is but a faint kind of policy
or wisdom, for it asketh a strong wit and a
strong heart to know when to tell the truth
and to do it; therefore it is the weaker sort
of politicians that are the greatest dissemblers.


OBITUARIES

	Died at Kanosh City Sept. 12th 1890 of dropsy and
heart trouble. Agnes Rogers, daughter of Alexander and
Agnes McConnell. born at Glascow, Scotland, December
25, 1831. Deceased was a member of the Relief Society
and much respected by all who knew her, having resided
in Kanosh for many years. 
		A. Kimball pres
		A Paxt On Sec.

	Died in St. George, Sept, 20th 1890, of dropsy, Maria
Marks Harmon, Daughter of Giles Marks and Hannah
Higgins Marks, and wife of Joseph Harmon. She was
born in Wiltshire, England, June 10th 1822, joined the
Church in her native land, March 1845, and came after-
wards to Utah. Removed from Centerville, Davis Co., to
St. George in 1869, where she labored diligently as a
teacher in the First Ward Relief Society; and also as ren-
ovater in the Temple; and with her husband had done a
good work for their dead. She was a very patient sufferer,
and died in full faith of the Gospel
		H. E. CROSBY.
	St. George, Oct. 5, 1890.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES &  CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]

FOURTH ANNUAL
Premium Distribution
OF THE 
SALT LAKE
Semi-Weekly Herald
1500 PRIZES!
VALUED AT $5,000,
Will be Given Away in the usual manner early in
1891. All you have to do is to pay $3.00, which
will secure you the SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD 
for one year and a chance in the PREMIUM
DISTRIBUTION. It is already the Biggest,
Brightest and Best of Utah papers, as the sworn
circulation of 10,700 copies per week fully at-
tests, and new improvements will be added to it in 
the near future.
THE PRIZES
will be headed by a magnificent Upright Everett
Piano, valued at $500 cash, to be seen at the 
piano warerooms of the F. E. Warren Mercantile 
Co., 10 E. Second South, Salt Lake. They will
also include Purses of Gold Coin ranging from 
One Hundred Dollars down to Five Dollars,
Valuable Horned Stock, Sewing Machines, Agri-
cultural Implements, Fruit and Shade Trees, 
Steel Engravings, Pictures, Gold and Silver
Watches, Trunks, Dishes, Town Lots, Toilet Sets,
Oil Paintings, and over One Thousand Beautiful 
and Useful Books of History, Poetry and Standard 
Fiction.
Premium Receipts now Ready.

	Subscribe through any local or traveling agent, 
or send money by P. O. order, postal note, bank
check or draft, or postage stamps. at our risk
Address
		THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.
Read what some of the Lucky Ones in last
	year’s Distribution have to say:
		Fairview, Sanpete Co., Utah, August 30,1890.
	The Herald Co., Salt Lake City, Utah.—This is to 
certify that I received One Hundred Dollars cash as a
premium from the Herald Company. Accept my sin-
cere thanks for the same. Yours, with kindest regards,
						MARY V. PRITCHETT.

					Springville, August 29, 1890.
	To the Herald Company, Salt Lake City.—I received
the premium (a $10 easy rocker) all right, and was
satisfied. Yours respectfully,			EMMA DALEY.

[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

