VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1890.		No. 12.


CONTENTS.

	One Christmas Eve. Autobiography—Of Eliza-
beth M. Pratt. R. S. and P. A. Reports—Mari-
copa—Cassia. Primary Conference and Fair—
May Anderson. Solitude and its Advantages
Notes and News. A Bust for Mrs. Stanton.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Store. Christmas is
Coming. Editorial Notes. An Enjoyable En-
tertainment. Items From Scandinavia. From
the President's Message. Utah Officers in Con-
gress. Utah Co. W. S. A. Foreign Letter,—M;
E. Scoles. Utah W. S. A.,—Ada Croxall
Items From Arizona,—Maria Mc'Rae.
	POETRY:—Give me Music.—L. M. H. Court-
ing Sunshine,—L. L. G. Richards. The Stars,—
Ruby Lamont.


GIVE ME MUSIC.

Oh give me music! tho’ my brow is calm,
	My heart seems bursting in its cell below,
And gloomy thoughts come crowding thickly up,
	From that deep fount of bitterness and woe

O, give me music would I might forget,
	What life was when I first its pathway trod,
Too much its pleasures have my heart beguiled,
	From Him to whom alone 'tis due,—my God.

O, give me music, soft and sad and low,
	'Twill cheer my weary fainting heart, and raise.
My drooping spirits from this dull cold world;
	And turn my mournful thoughts to songs of praise.
										L. M. H.


COURTING SUNSHINE.

		TO N.
Dear and true and patient one,
Well thy task is being done.
Yet continue, be unmoved,
Be thy course af heav'n approved,
As thy life thus far hath been,
Chaste and meek and free from sin.

In thy day of test and trial,
Sacrifice and self-denial,
Trust not human strength or skill,
Look to God for guidence still;
He shall grant thee grace and pow'r
To endure this mortal hour

I have counted secret prayer,
Courting Sunshine,bright and fair,
Better than the shining gold,
Which the eyes alone behold,
Prayer doth graciously impart,
Golden Sunshine to the heart.

Firm in faith,with steadfast mind,
To thy portion still resigned,
What though fortune smile or frown,
So you gain the victor's crown,
Bright and glorious like the sun,
Tried and true and patient one.
				L. L. G. RICHARDS.


WRITTEN FOR THE EXPONENT.

THE STARS.

Gems of beauty, gems of light,
	Sparkling in the deep blue sky.
Tell me of your secrets bright,
	Are ye homes for them that die.
Wondrous depths where human thought.
	Ne'er can follow, ne'er can find,
Wondrous heights where God hath wrought
	Works that make poor mortals blind!


Will ye whisper this to me;
	Are ye homes for spirits free?

When the star of day hath set
	And his gold hath changed to night,
When the somber shades have met
	Softly gleams your gentle light!
Worlds of glory, beams of hope,
	Se[-]n in grief, unseen in joy,
All your lovely vista ope
	All the spirit's gladness buoy!
		Do the precious souls we love
		Find those wondrous heights above?

That same God who rules on high
	Each resplendent golden star,
Says the soul shall never die
	Takes us to some home afar—
Can it be Alcyon, speak,
	Are our heartstrings bound in thee?
Vega, Dubhe, the silence break—
	Do ye hide the mystery?
		By your streams, amid your flow'rs,
		Do our loved ones weave their bow'rs?

Ye are silent and the night
	Will not answer; no reply
Comes from darkness or from light,
	From the earth or from the sky!
Silent, silent all! the tomb
	Gives no answer, makes no moan,
Wrapt in myst'ry, wrapt in gloom,
	Pleading still, I stand alone!
		All alone, no answ'ring voice
		Bids my longing heart rejoice!

Not alone! The voice of One
	Guiding, strength'ning, saving still,
He, the Father's faithful Son,
	Bids me do that Father's will!
He will lead me through the tomb,
	Well He knows for once He died.
Swift shall vanish all the gloom
	And my soul be satisfied,
		Gems of glory, gems of light,
		I shall know your secrets bright!

	RUBY LAMONT.
Richfield, Utah, Dec. 3. 1890.


[Column 1]

ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.

	An old brown farm house standing upon a
hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where one
of those low murmuring pebbly brooks rip-
pled along, its undertone harmonizing
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of the
great pines in the back ground of the pretty
picture. Look there is a crowd of children
coming in from a ramble laden with ever-
greens, hemlock boughs, trailing vines and 
bright red winter berries. How merry they
are, chatting gaily, and their laughter ring-
ing out in the clear frosty air. A light snow
is falling which makes the scene even more
attractive. What a picture for an artist these
little folks would make. The long vines they
have pulled from under the thick carpet of
fallen leaves, that had covered and kept them
fresh until the winter holidays, when there are
no flowers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them giving them the appearance of
wood nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life, they have no idea whatever, of
city waysland extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas and within the
homely dwelling great preparations are being

[Column 2]

made for coming festivities. The children left
to their own fancies had wandered away in the
pine woods, and returned home carrying in
their arms and about them the boughs and
vines and berries; and soon they are busy
hanging them around the walls of the long, low,
living room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter weather.
There on a winter evening many interesting
stories and anecdotes were told and old-fash-
ioned songs sung, and in the great wide fire
place the pine knots blazed high and the re-
flection on the dark oaken paneled walls
made many a fanciful light and shadow, so
weird and strange that they were ever afterward
remembered by the little ones reared in that
happy home. On that particular Christmas
Eve, the ever greens were festooned and
garlanded so heavily and the dark green hung
with shining red berries, so that the dim
shadowy light when it danced fitfully over
and around made a strange contrast in its
 weirdness to the bright eyed rosy cheeked
merry children who fluttered hither and
thither singing and laughing admiring the
decorations and calling the attention of the
older ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that one
might almost imagine it a woodland scene,
and the smell of the fragrant hemlock and
pine was like a perfume from the forest it-
self.
	How different was this home of nearly half
a century ago, plain and primitive in all its
appointments to even the village homes of to-
day.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the great
wide bare hall, only plain wooden pegs for the
hats and coats, and it had no carpet, but a
painted floor with gay colored, warm, home-
made woolen mats, the only really attractive
feature, except the reflector that hung on the
wall, and was only lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusally gay this Christmas
eve, though these Puritanical New England
folks didn't make so much ado about Christ-
mas then as they do now; still it was custom-
ary to have a holiday week before New Year's,
and visits were interchanged among relatives
and friends, and elaborate dinners were indul-
ged in. There was much feasting and merry-
making and many queer old games for pastime
besides. Who shall say that those were not
"the good old times," of which we sing and
talk and moralize so much? I may have
been too prosy in describing this country
dwelling etc. and perhaps 'twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our
boys and girls no harm to know how their
mothers and grandmothers lived many years
ago. As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter's night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well the
people that figured in the dramas that actually
transpired, out of which the threads of many
stories might be woven, and I perhaps indulge
too much in reverie and simplify beforehand
what ought to be brought out in the narrative
itself.
	This Christmas Eve was the last one that the
large family assembled there on that occasion,
not one missing, ever spent within those time-
honored walls; for ere another year had flown
the group was broken, and one "only a girl"


[column 1]﻿
sort of restraint seemed to hinder the freedom
felt in times past. Edward felt he must
break the spell and looking up with his great
fathomless blue eyes inquiringly said, "What
about the homestead mother if you are de-
termined to go West? I was in hopes if was
not true but on coming to the village I find
it is quite understood by the neighbors? We’ve
been so happy here these many years, and its
such a delightful place, might be made a
charming summer resort, everything to make
it attractive in that way, if we chose to do it,
there is not a more picturesque spot in all this
part of New England and it abounds iu
sequestered vales and nooks among the hills,
O, I can’t think of its being sold to strangers;
I like the English idea of ancestral in-
heritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through and with characteristic firmness re-
plied, “Edward I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would, you
could keep the old home from  going into the
hands of strangers?" "Why mother what do
you mean?” “I mean simply this, marry and
settle down here, not one of your city belles,
they might only fancy the place, beautiful as
its surroundings are for a summer season, but
one of our own villagers, and after awhile you
may see things as I do, and join us in the
West, then you would be more reconciled to
the parting.”
	“Well mother, I'll think about buying the
the place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure minded and innocent doubtless and
that should be an inducement, but I shall not
marry yet, awhile.  I'd like this strong attach-
ment for the home and its belongings to wear
off a little,before we part with it,if it ever will;
every foot of the land is endeared to me by
some memory or other; the old well- sweep, I
love to hear it creak, as in my school-boy days
when the wind blew from the hemlock grove
yonder,though its not a thing of beauty by any
means, yet, I have made a sketch of it, which
I intend to keep for the sake of old re-
membrances; there will never be any water
that will seem so sweet and pure in all the
years to come I fear, as I have drank from
that old well with its undignified sweep,that we
can see such a distance away. “The new
fangled pumps don’t compare with it in my
opinion, still in new houses I prefer them but
in this place I like things just as they are."
	“I am glad Edward that you have such a
reverence for the home of your childhood, and
I hope you may be able to take it and secure
to me sufficient ready money for my rights in
the estate, so that I can go to the West, and
take the younger children and yet it grieves
me very much that I must part not only with
old time friends, endeared to me by tender
ties of affection, but that more than half my
children must be left behind.  I know how-
ever that in this matter I am right and my
views upon the subject cannot be changed.
The arrangement of leaving the homestead in
Edward’s hands to be disposed of  afterwards
was partially decided upon and mother and
son sat talking of this and other things into
the wee sma’ hours of morning the rain beat-
ing against the window panes, the fierce wind
howling and shrieking without, the old well-
sweep creaking, while in the lull at intervals
the pine woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quium as it were, for the parting of that happy
family from each other and the home of their
childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time together
without any particular event of importance
transpiring, some gloomy presentiments, that
might be caused by the knowledge that the
home was to be sold and the household broken
up, that was all; tomorrow some of them must
return to their own homes, and that alone pro-
duced a sort of sadness, such as we have all of

[column 2]
us felt perhaps, after some specially happy oc-
casion, when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow not the lightest had ever fallen
upon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been pen-
sive and thoughtful during the Christmas fes-
tivities; to her perhaps more than to any one
else, the cloud that hung over the gathering
had seemed dark and threatening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the wind
was shrieking as if in mortal agony, and as
she thought all the household were fast asleep
she lay tossing and moaning on her downy
pillows, sobbing out every now and then, "if
he comes tomorrow what shall I do?  But I
am not to blame I did not say he might come
here, besides what will Fred say, he has always
been my champion, my playmate ever since
we went, to school together, and I have been so
proud of him too, and the other girls so
jealous, and now Frank is coming, and de-
clares in that last letter that he will take no
refusal.”
	“Let me see,” and climbing out of bed she
lit her candle opened her drawer and between
her tears and sobs; began to read this terrible
letter that was causing such a commotion in
in her feelings.
	“Yes here it is,” and she read, “I am coming
the day after Christmas when all your big
brothers and sisters are there, even Edward
whom you think will frighten me out of asking
for you, and I shall storm the old castle for
my lady bird, and for aught I know waft her
away on the wings of the wind, if I should
meet with any resistance, from these stalwart
brothers—I give you timely warning, and I
trust there will be no fainting or hysterics
among the women folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to herself
as shivering with cold and excitement she
folded and replaced the letter and hurried back
to bed.  Poor child, she fell asleep and dreamed
that Frank Lockwood came with a carriage
to take her away and that Fred Howard
snatched her up in his arms, and would not
let go his hold, and then she woke, the dream
was so real that she could scarcely believe she
was in bed in her own room and the storm still
beating against the window as when she fell
asleep.
	St. Stephen's day the 26th of December a
dismal morning, no getting out in such a storm,
and Deborah was somewhat calmed when she
saw how unpropitious the weather was for
traveling. She tried to summon courage to
speak to her mother, but it was impossible, her
manner seemed so forbidding.  The truth was
Mrs. Curtis was so absorbed in what had
transpired between Edward and herself the
night before that she was oblivious to all things
of less importance.  It never for one moment
occurred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the scene to
interrupt their pleasure.  Nevertheless he
came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed
up the lane where the gates stood open really
the main entrance for carriages driving
a span of fine grey horses, and a handsome turn-
out in every respect for traveling. The bells
rang out so wildly close to the house that the 
ladies and children all rushed to the windows
except Deborah, who was ready to faint before
she knew what the matter was.  At the sound of 
the bells Edward was on hand, and seeing a 
total stranger was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation," I sup-
pose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I am 
Frank Lockwood from Athol, I suppose your
sister has told you about me!  "No I never
heard of your existence, but come in you're
welcome, let me take your horses to the barn
you've driven hard I see, a fine team."
	The horses were taken care of and Edward

[column 3]
Curtis led the way to the house but on enter-
ing, with the expectation of finding Deborah
to explain matters, the room was vacated ex-
cept the children and babies and gentlemen
guests; the eldest brother opened up a conver-
sation with the young stranger, and Edward
stepped out to see what was going on, for
from the stranger's remarks he had gathered
that the young man had come a wooing some-
thing after the fashion of olden times on the
defensive, declaring war beforehand; he found
his mother and sisters were engaged in bring-
ing Deborah out of a dead faint.  which
only seemed to complicate things in his mind,
and made him think seriously of sending the 
young man about his business, but finally
concluded not to percipitate matters but wait to
see the scenes unravel.  Frank was very un-
comfortable every time the door opened he ex-
pected to see Deborah, but she came not, and 
the impatient lover grew weary waiting.  No
explanation was made as in fact no one knew 
what to say.  One after another the married
sisters came into the parlor and were introduced
to Mr. Lockwood, but Deborah's name was
never mentioned.  A child came in and 
spoke to Edward, he excused himself, his 
sister had sent for him, and his mother was
also in waiting.  "What has this young man
to say who has thrust himself upon us at this
unseasonable time?" said the mother, "He has
said nothing as yet except to ask if my sister
told me of his coming."  "Will you inquire
his errand Edward," resumed the mother with
the most perfect composure? "As you please
mother, but what does Deborah say?"  "That 
you must persuade him to go away without
seeing her, that she is not engaged to him?"
	Then she gave him encouragement; has
trifled with his affections.  The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance."  
	There was no help for it, Edward had never
been in love himself, but somehow he felt a
great sympathy for this daring young fellow
who could face a whole house full of relatives
determined to conquer them all.  He thought 
a great deal of his sister, not exactly his style
she was such a delicate, fragile creature but
beautiful and gentle and so sensitive he could 
scarcely see how any man could want her for
a wife, that name seemed to him to imply too
much for one so young and inexperienced,
however if he must "face the music" better
begin right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to 
meet him in an adjoining room, and of course
he did so and they talked over the matter
seriously together.  Edward found his sister
had spoken truly when she said she had given 
him no hope of loving him, but Frank was
 one of those men that by some peculiar fascina-
tion compel women in spite of themselves, to 
listen and often imagine it is true love, when up-
on serious reflection they are convinced it is not
the love that is needed for the daily duties of 
life.  It passes for the real article in the 
matrimonial market very often, but when it
 is put in the crucible and tested there proves
to be very little of the genuine material.  If
the experience of others could be valued at its
proper estimate, girls would be more consider-
ate before hand and when they made a choice
it might perhaps be a wiser one.  It is
customary to call marriage a lottery etc. and 
very erroneous ideas of love prevail among
men as well as women. For instance this
happy Christmas was interupted and the guests
dispersed in anything but gay spirits though
the inopportune arrival upon the scene of this
young stranger who fancied himself madly in 
love.  He succeeded admirably in creating a 
sensation and upsetting the household.  The
family party thus rudely broken in upon could
not regain the same feelings of enjoyment
and those who went away with the good bye.
		[Continued on page 94.]


[Column 1]

﻿had gone far away and everything seemed to
change from that time, one went here and
another there, and by and bye the cruel war of
the rebellion came and sad tragedies followed,
but we forbear to name these things now and
come back to the Christmas Eve and for this
once we'll watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came one
after another during the day before Christmas
each with their little ones; there were three
daughters married whose husbands came with
them and one son with his wife, and another
unmarried son whose employment took him
away from his native village. Late in the
afternoon all had arrived,and the old home re-
sounded with heartfelt rejoicing. All these
were to dine at the old homestead and spend a
day or two or more after at the dear place
they loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the younger
children lingered to hear their older brothers
and sisters talk over the days when they were
at home and try to recall incidents and cir-
cumstances and repeat over old stories, each
one in turn filling in a part that another had
forgotten. After the story telling, songs were
sung and every one was required to add some-
thing to the evening's amusement. The stories
and songs were mostly of a legendary char-
acter, and later on a sort of dullness fell upon
the party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge yet all felt more or less, and at-
tributed it in a measure to the nature of the
pastime with which they had passed the hours
away.
	Finally after a lull in the conversation, and
the fire was beginning to burn low, one of the
company suggested it was almost twelve o'clock
and soon they could wish each other "a merry
Christmas," and retire, for it seemed to be
silently conceded that all were tired; and just
when a sort of quiet reigned, another broke in
upon the spell that was apparent with "I
wonder what will happen before another
Christmas Eve" and quick as answers often
come without thought, two or three voices at
once burst forth with the exclamation Edward
will be married,and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing one.
But no one of all assembled there thought that
ere another year had flown, the half-grown girl
who sat there on that night so pale and
thoughtful like one in a dream, would be gone
forever from their midst into a new and very
different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity fell
upon the party, and the merry Christmas, as
it resounded through the rooms seemed to
leave a hollow echo in the apartments, that
was more like a farewell than the tone of glad
greeting such as it was meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now, though
the day had been rather a placid one with
only a light fall of snow at intervals.
	The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not disturbed
them in the least, but when quiet settled down
and the family separated for the night, the ele-
ments seemed in great commotion; the wind
was fairly shrieking and the great elm trees
in the yard, swayed to and fro and crackled,
and the sighs and moans of the pine woods in
the distance were piteous to listen to. To one
full of sentiment these melancholy dirges,
especially on a wintry night have something
inexpressibly tender and significant in them,
and the voices in the wind are full of the
sweetest pathos, yet appealing to the strongest
emotions, that give expression to the human
soul in its deepest distress. Yea, even in the
agony that is beyond expression. They seem
to cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad world

[Column 2]

of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This night
was a dismal one, and the young people grew
nervous from the sadness that brooded over
their Christmas greetings. It was as though a
presentiment came that something was about
to happen; even though all was peace and
quietness within and no kuowledge of any evil
shadow lurking about or around had caused
this melancholy foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the house-
hold, and especially so to the little maiden
who was just bursting into womanhood; her
amiable manner and cheerful disposition were
the very life of the old home, nothing could be
brighter or more hopeful than the future
prospects of this young girl. The world to her
was so full of beauty and sweetness and she
had been a favorite with all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge of
the forces that have lain dormant in the mind
through all the tenderer years, while in others
perhaps it only dawns upon them through
slow processes of reasoning or bitter experi-
ences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivities,
and though the wind howls and the woods take
up the echo, the great logs burn brightly and
happy faces light up the Christmas morn.
Snow had fallen very deep and when the hall
door was opened the great bank of light snow
fell in upon the floor to the delight of the
children who were not permitted to go out in
such weather. The morning sun shining in
dispelled the gloom of the previous night and
in the exercises of prayer and reading of
passages from the Bible, which was customary
in this house, the melancholy died away and
the breakfast was partaken of in the most
cheerful mood by all.
	During the day while visiting with each
other the daughters roamed through the house
from garret to cellar, commenting upon the old
styles and suggesting modern improvements.
The mother objected to new-fangled notions
and affirmed that the old home was dearer to
her from association than any other could ever
be however elegantly fitted up, or modernized.
	"I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy wife
and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture for all your derision
and making fun of my antiquated notions.
Furniture is not made of such rich wood nowa-
days, much of it is sham, and on a par with
the rude brusque manners of some of our
young people." "But girls" said the mother
continuing "you may each of you select a
piece of furniture today to take with you to
your own home, and remember whatever
happens you must not part with it, let it be as
a memento of your childhood home and of
this Christmas visit." And so they did, and
long after, when many of those who ate their
Christmas dinner together on that day had
gone to "that better land" those who remained
were reminded of the time; they had spent to-
gether with the darling mother and of the
sweet and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in the
room decorated by the children with only
natural evergreens and red berries,but so dark
and curiously  woven together that it was
weird enough for a gipsy's camp. Christmas-
trees were unknown in that primitive place
in those days and the gifts that were bestowed
were generally those of love and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons including children sat down to-
gether around that festive board. Turkeys
with savory dressing young pigs roasted whole,
pnddings, pies, cakes and preserves with a
variety of condiments and side dishes. No
wine or sweet cider even were ever served
to the guests in that house, the mistress

[Column 3]

strongly objected; "My boys she always said
shall never be tempted at home to partake of
strong drink," but rosy cheeked apples piled
high in elegant glass and china dishes, made
the table quite ornamental, oranges too from
Florida added to the beauty of the sumptuous
feast, and tempted the already sharpened
appetites of the children.
	Long they lingered at table this happy
family on that day which seemed forever after to
mark an era in their lives; one joke after
another was told and some of them had a very
practical application, but all was in good
nature and jollity, and the daylight faded into
eventide ere the company had realized its
approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean swept
a fresh supply of cragged pine knots piled
high in the great open fire-place, upon the
heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of the evening
commenced. Each one was to do something,
tell a story, sing a song, relate an anecdote,
or give some pleasing recitation; the progamme
was an impromptu one,yet mostly they agreed,
no one differing with another as to how or why
they should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the wind,
and ere the half was told the midnight bell
pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Curtis never
encouraged sitting up after midnight not even
for company. One by one the visitors and the
family departod to their rooms with a formal
goodnight, except the unmarried son, who had
won something of a reputation as a practical
business man, and who during his occasional
visits to the home of his childhood, always took
the opportunity to advise with his mother on
his own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had be-
gun to feel very uncomfortable. This evening
he felt determined to detain his mother afrer
the rest had retired; there was still a blazing
fire, and it seemed to invite the confidence of
those whose hearts need warmth and sympathy.
Bachelors ever do and Edward had never been
married and his life was a sort of Bohemian
kind,that pleased him well,but that his exem-
plary mother thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his mother
always such a serious steady boy and now
such a finely proportioned brown-bearded
handsome young man with great blue eyes
that seemed to speak volumes in a glance. The
village girls made no secret of their admira-
tion for him,and wherever he went he attracted
the attention of those about him, and influenced
them much as he wished when he chose to
exert his powers. He was a man of strong
emotions and devotedly attached to his mother,
and her interests. in many respects the mother
and son were very similar They had been
accustomed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond of
home in his own way and very fond of his
aristocratic looking mother, as well as of her
excellent economy and management of the
homestead with its fine broad acres of meadow-
land, pastures, hillsides and woods,
	"'My mother he had often said to gentlemen
friends can manage an estate as well as most
men; her executive ability is quite equal to
that of any man in our county, and I am
sure she would make a good Judge she has
that sort of judicial manner of weighing things
and giving her opinion when she has looked
on all sides."
	In fact Edward Curtis had said on one or
two occasions if he could find a young woman
with such a well-balanced head as his mother
had he would ask her to be his wife. On
this Christmas night when mother and son
were left alone for a few moments at first a


date of Nov. 6, 1890 and speaks of the various
Conferences in the mission in Sweden, Norway
and Denmark. Of Christiana he says, "Sunday
the 12th (October) three services were held at
which the principles of the Gospel were explained
to crowded houses. The hall will seat about 400
and it was full of people each time. About half
that number were friends and strangers. Nor-
wegian evergreens, interwoven with flowers taste-
fully displayed, formed the decorations of the
room. On Monday we held a priesthood meeting 
and in the evening the Sunday School children
had a sociable which was well attended. Refresh-
ments were served to the children free. On
Wednesday evening the sisters of the Relief
Society held a Fair at which they realized quite
a sum of money to be used for charitable pur-
poses."	*	*	*	Thursday afternoon Brother
Anderson went to Stockholm there he says the
Saints have a commodious hall in Hornsgaten,
"beautiful decorations graced the building," at
the first meeting the hall was filled with people.
It is the largest Conference in the Mission there
are over 1,400 members now, and during the past
six months 99 have been baptized and many are
investigating the principles of the Gospel."
	During the past six months 312 baptisms have
taken place in the mission."
	This seems to be a very cheering statement and
Brother Anderson thinks more Elders are needed
in that land. By this record it does not appear
that "Mormonism" is dying out as some people
imagine, far from it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00: one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	DECEMBER 1, 1890.


WOMAN'S STORE.

	Preliminary steps have been taken towards the
establishment of a Woman's Store in this City at
an early date. A call was made through some of
the daily papers for a meeting to be held on Fri-
day Nov. 28, at 11 a. m. in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, for the transaction of important
business. The call was signed by Mesdames M.
Isabella Horne and E. B. Wells. The meeting
was held as per appointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne
Chairman and Mrs Emma G. Bull Secretary. The
subject of starting a Woman's Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the Chair-
man of the meeting and afterwards by Mrs. Caro-
line C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Dr. E. S. Barney and others. The
shares were placed at $5.00 each and quite a
number of ladies came forward and took shares
in the enterprise. It is distinctly understood that
this is not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction and
immediate supervision of reliable women, al-
though it will doubtless be a good investment for
means belonging to the Relief Society in its
several branches, and other like Associations,
much better than allowing the money to lie idle.
	Another meeting was held at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT today Dec. 1st at which
further business was transacted and Committees
called for purchasing goods etc., who are actively
engaged in the movement, it is expected the store
will be opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest.
	In connection with this commendable enter-
prise it is expected there will soon be dressmak-
ing, millinery and hair-dressing departments in
which young girls may be trained in these active
industrial employments. The management will be
in the hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need of un-
certainty about its success as a safe investment
for capital.
	Those desiring to take shares can pay them at
the store and receive Receipts for their money
until Certificates of shares can be issued. The
name under which this enterprise will be known
is "The Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Institution," situated opposite the
City Hall at 123 E. First South Street.


CHRISTMAS IS COMING.
	That Christmas is coming is everywhere ap-
parent in the donning of the holiday attire by
merchants and shop-keepers, as well as all other
establishments of a similar character. Every 
body who has anything to sell hopes to do a 
thriving business at this season of the year, Salt
Lake City is very gay and showy in appearance
just now, and judging from the preparations that


are going forward old Santa Claus will have a
most enthusiastic welcome. The Book sellers
expect a good share of patronage at such times,
and books are valuable presents and Santa Claus
generally lays in a choice supply and it is to be 
hoped he will not neglect the home authors at 
such a time.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor just
across the way from our little sanctum is well sup-
plied and Santa Claus should be notified that since
his last visit it has been removed into new and 
more commodious quarters and has increased in
the variety and quantity of suitable books, home
productions and selections carefully made; also
gifts and toys and almost everything Old King
Christmas needs to load up his sleighs etc.
	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery near by, the
genial friend of the widow and the orphan, and
the children and old folks, and every body in 
general, is well supplied with every thing in the
art line, pictures especially of the various varieties
photographs etc., books of all kinds and sta-
tionery and the most wonderful tops and games
for the little people, his windows are always 
dressed in an attractive style at such times and
no pains is spared in catering to the public taste
in the way of art and literature.
	D. M. McAllister half way down on the same
block, has a very unique way of displaying his
goods; his show windows having been greatly 
admired ever since he "took to the business," and
it may be expected that Santa Claus will remember
him bountifully when getting in his supplies for
distribution; McAllister keeps the best magazines
and periodicals of the times.
	At the old stand where James Dwyer Esq. held
forth so many years, and catered to the public 
taste Margetts Bros. have a large and carefully
arranged stock of the same line of goods; they
keep all the popular and latest magazines and
periodicals also, and will certainly come in for a 
liberal share of Santa Claus patronage.
	Last but not least we hope, though perhaps
with a small beginning, we trust the Woman's
Store will be a popular and favorite resort for the
ladies, and gentlemen too, who want to make
purchases for Santa Claus. Mothers should look
in at the Woman's Store before purchasing else-
where, and help sustain by their custom the ad-
vancement of woman's co-operative enterprise in
this direction.
	Above everything else let us all remember on
this day of days the poor, the sick, the lonely and 
bereaved ones, the widow and the fatherless and
carry with us everywhere, and scatter at home
and abroad not only temporal gifts suited to our
means, but the good will and charity that seasons
good cheer. The love that surpasses all other
love and makes us like unto Him whose advent we
celebrate.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"The Children's Book" by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron is now ready. It is a "Mormon" book
for "Mormon" children and contains nearly 300
pages in short articles of poetry and prose all
new and original. The book is just what is
needed at the present time and is suitable for a
holiday gift. Price $1.50. The book can be ob-
tained at this office. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A of this Stake will be held on Friday the 19th
day of Dec. in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this City, and it is desirable that there should be
a punctual attendance of officers and members as
it is anticipated there will be an interesting
session. Brethren and sisters who are anxious
for the improvement of the young people of Zion
are respectfully invited to be present at both
meetings at 2 p.m. and at 7:30 p. m. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, in this City Thursday, Dec. 18,
1800. Representatives from each branch Society
in the County are expected to be present and re-
port verbally. As this is a very important period
in the history of the Church, it is most essential
that all duties be performed faithfully and it is
ardently hoped by those who preside over the 
Relief Society, that the sisters make a good
showing by their presence at this Conference.
The brethren are cordially invited to attend.
Meetings will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Primary As-
sociation of this Stake will be held in the As-
sembly Hall in this City Saturday Dec. 20, meet-
ing commencing at 10 a. m. It is expected that
those who preside in each Primary in the County
will take an interest in this Conference and help
to make it what it should be a place of instruction.
Every officer who can should make a point of
attending these Conferences for her own benefit
and that she may be more helpful to those with
whom she is associated. Wherever it is practic-
able the children should attend as their help is
necessary to make a Primary Conference bene-
ficial. Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presides in this
Stake over the Primary Associations.


AN ENJOYABLE ENTERTAINMENT

	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden and her pupils gave
their first Reception last Saturday evening at
Temple of Honor Hall in the Deseret Bank build-
ing. There were about one dozen recitations
given and the parents and friends were surprised
at the improvement shown during the two months
instruction, the articulation and gesture being
particularly noticable, also the deep tones which
some of them gave utterance to showed that the
instruction and drill had proved quite successful
in strengthening weak lungs and chests. Mrs.
Boyden was kindly assisted by Miss Viola Pratt
and Dr. J. P. Wilson who each gave a beautiful
vocal solo which were highly enjoyable to the
audience. Mrs. Boyden finished the programme
with a reading of "The Creeds of the Bells,"
which calls for great voice and perfectly trained
breathing power. The only drawback to the en-
tertainment was the incapacity of the hall to seat
the many guests there present, standing room be-
ing at a premium.
	The writer had the pleasure of meeting Mrs.
Boyden when on a visit to the Eastern States a
few years ago and was at that time interested in
her on account of her having been a friend and
schoolmate of the late Mrs. Frank Cole, whose
sad death occurred in this City some years since,
but whose memory has ever been held dear by
those who knew her intimately. Mrs. Boyden
seems to be an accomplished elocutionist, we have
had the pleasure of hearing her on more than
one occasion; she has come to this City with the
intention of remaining,and we hope she may find
a field of labor in her profession suited to her
talents.


ITEMS FROM SCANDINAVIA.

	Elder Edward H. Anderson of Ogden now pre-
siding over the Scandinavian Mission has written
a very interesting account of the work of the
Gospel in that part of the world to the Millennial
Star from which we quote a few items feeling
that those who have emigrated hither from that
far country will be pleased to hear good news
from their native land,and also that all will rejoice
that so much is being accomplished in bringing
the honest in heart to a knowledge of the truth.
	Elder Anderson writes from Copenhagen under


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

UTAH.

	The increasing number and influence of the
non-Mormon population in Utah are observed
with satisfaction. The recent letter of Wilford
Woodruff. President of the Mormon Church, in
which he advises his people to refrain from con-
tracting any marriage forbidden by the laws of
the land, has attracted wide attention, and it is
hoped that its influence will be highly bene-
ficial in restraining infractions of the laws of the
United States. But the fact should not be over-
looked that the doctrine or belief of the Church
that polygamous marriages are rightful and sup-
ported by Divine revelation remains unchanged.
President Woodruff does not renounce the
doctrine, but refrains from teaching it, and ad-
vises against the practice of it because the law is
against it. Now it is quite true that the law
should not attempt to deal with the faith or be-
lief of any one, but it is quite another thing; and
the only safe thing is to deal with the Territory of
Utah so that thoso whe believe polygamy to be
rightful shall not have the power to make it law-
ful:


UTAH OFFICERS IN CONGRESS.
	The suggestion of his Excellency, Governor
Thomas, for additional legislation on the subjects
 of granting lands, school lands, irrigation, etc.,
are set forth in detail. The demand for a public
building for Federal officers at Salt Lake City,
is also urged, as a measure of economy, for the
protection of the public records.
	The Secretary presents the governer's recom-
mendations in reference to additional legislation
on the Mormon question, and adds:
	Since the period at which the Governor wrote,
however, great changes have taken place in the
professions of the Mormons and the public decla-
rations of the Mormon Church. There was
handed to the Secretary of the Interior by John
T. Caine, Delegate to Congress from Utah, a
written communication of October 1, 1890, in
which attention was called to the following decla-
ration of Wilford Woodruff, president and highest
authority of that Church.


[The manifesto of President Wilford Woodruff
follows.]
	"Mr. Caine added in his letter that this decla-
ration was entitled to great weight in any con-
sideration that might be given the subject, and
seemed indeed conclusive and "the very result at
which the Government has been aiming so long.'
	"In the conversation which took place when this
letter was delivered, it was objected that Mr. Caine
and the president would have to meet the specifi-
cation of forty cases with more than a general
denial, and that the president was without author-
ity to change the doctrines of the Church; that
this belonged, if to any, to the high council or
general conference.
	"Mr. Young, Mr. Cannon and Mr. Caine have,
with some others, presented the claims of their
Church to confidence and favor.
	"After the conversation with Mr. Caine there
followed (October 6th) a general conference of
the Mormon Church, and the proclamation above
set forth was unanimously ratified. Addresses
were there made to the people on the subject by
the president and leading apostles.
	"What is expected because of these proceed-
ings, is no doubt, a removal of the Utah Com-
mission; the preservation of the elective franchise
to the members of the church in all the States and
territories, where they may be and a test oath
may be required of them; a restoration of the
property of the Church; and possibly the ad-
mission of Utah to Statehood with or without a
test oath against polygamy. The present laws
should not however, be changed on these pro-
fessions alone. These can be unmade by the
same body that has made them. The "revelation"
sanctioning polygamy remains unchanged. The
Mormons,  by their works, must prove their decla-
rations to be made in good faith, abandon poly-
gamy and conform to the practices of our people
in social and home life, acknowledge and prove
their allegiance to the United States Constitution
by obedience to the laws made pursuant thereto
by a loyalty equal in time and strength to their
past disobedience. The present system of laws
against Mormon practices has been constructed
by legislative wisdom, sanctioned by judicial de-
cree, and enforced by the Chief Executive of the
nation. Its object is not attained by securing a
proclamation of obedience from those who have
so long resisted it. Its purposes will be accom-
plished only when the opposing system shall have
lost its power, even if it regains the will, to work
the evils of the past.
	The work of the Utah Commission in super-
vising recent elections is set forth, as presented
in their report previeusly published.


UTAH CO., W. S. A. 
	A meeting for the re-election of officers of the
Utah County Woman Suffrage Association for
the ensuing year was held at Provo in the Meet-
ing house on Saturday Nov. 29, at 2 p. m. Mrs.
Susa Y. Gates the retiring President of the Asso-
ciation in the chair. On the platform were
seated Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City and
some of the local officers of the W. S. A, among
them Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs. Joanna
Patten; and the Secretaries Mrs. Rebecca H.
Doolan and Miss Eveline Billings, Mrs. Mary
John, Mrs. Marilla M. Daniels, Mrs. Alice M.
Thurman; and Vice Presidents from branch asso-
ciations in other parts were also present.
	The meeting opened with singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer was offered by the
Chaplain of the day Mrs. Annie K. Smoot, sing-
ing "O, God our help in ages past." Minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also the
Treasurer's report for the past year.
	Reports were given by Mrs. M. A. Webb, Vice
Pres. of Lehi, Mrs. Hannah Lapish, Vice Pres. of
American Fork also Mrs. Elizabeth Brown who


spoke in behalf of Pleasant Grove. Mrs. Webb
and Mrs. Lapish spoke very spiritedly and made
many good points.
	The President Mrs. Gates then made quite a
pathetic appeal to the sisters, giving some very
good reasons why she had not succeeded in ful-
filling her anticipations. The business of re-elec-
ing was then attended to, Mrs. Joanna Patten was
sustained as President for the coming term of
office (one year) and Mrs. Electa Bullock First
Vice Pres. Mrs. Deborah Billings Second
Vice Pres. Mrs. Maria Horrocks Third Vice Pres.
Mrs. Alice H. Wilkin Chairman Executive Board
Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan Recording Secretary,
Miss Mabel Thurman Cor. Sec. Mrs. Jane Jones
Treasurer. The names of five ladies were pre
sented as members of the Ex. Board whose names
were a guarantee that they were capable of the
work. The business of re-electing having been
completed, the newly elected President Mrs
Patten made some very suitable remarks in an
innocent and unaffected tone and manner.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the audience for
some time setting forth the advantages for the de-
velopment of women through being connected
with these Associations and urging all to work in
the interest of woman's advancement, referred to
the great need of woman's help in many public
places, where women were to be cared for, and
the necessity of preparation to perform one's part
well. Referred to the practical experience the
women of Utah had in the exercise of the elective
franchise and to the way in which it was taken
from them because they voted according to their
own best judgment in the matter. Mrs. Wells
then read the Constitution and By-Laws recently
prepared by the National-American W. S. A. and
explained some of the items to the ladies present
Thought Utah County with a paid up member-
ship of nearly five hundred ought to send a delegate
 rom their Association to the Convention in
Washington. Spoke also of the Woman Suffrage
Song Book about to be issued in Salt Lake City
	After some deliberation the ladies sand "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow," meeting ad-
journed for one month and the Chaplain offered
the closing prayer.


FOREIGN LETTER.
London, W. C,
Nov. 17th, 1890.
Dear Sister Wells:
	I take pleasure in informing you as to the con-
dition of the North London Ladies’ Relief Society
since our last report. We are so few in numbers;
our little band has only six working members,
who attend faithfully, and even some of these are
so busily employed, that they have little or no
time for visiting the Saints. However, we are
doing the best we can, and are grateful for the
blessed opportunities that occur to enable us to
help roll on this mighty work. We have re-
ceived 25£ 6s 7d and have expended 22£ 10s 0d to
the poor, and assisting the missionaries, we hold
our meetings monthly, and enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord very much although so few in number. We
are hopeful that we may be useful in the future in
the Relief Society in Zion so are encouraged to
press on, and do our duty day by day. We are
deeply interested in the EXPONENT it is inval-
able to us, and it is looked for by one and all, we
learn so much by it, what our sisters are doing
thousands of miles away, where the sphere is so
much larger and the Spirit is enjoyed to a greater
extent, and we feel encouraged thereby to go on
preparing ourselves to be worthy recipients
of those blessings which are in store for the
faithful workers in Christ's Kingdom.
	Praying that the blessings of heaven may rest
with us all,
	Your Sister in the Gospel, 
	M. E. SCOLES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Woman Suffrage Association
was held in the 14th Ward Meeting House Satur-
day, Nov. 22, 1890 for the purpose of organizing
the Woman Suffrage Association of Salt Lake
County. The President Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
in the chair. Mrs. B. W. Smith, who was ap-
pointed to act as chaplain, opened the meeting
with prayer. Mrs. Margaret Mitchell made a few
remarks, said that she had always felt that wo-
men ought to be free and equal with men; that
as members of this Territory we ought to look
around us and do whatever we could to help
humanity; that we have to be governed and there-
fore we want to be a power in that government
and want to exercise our ability in judging for
ourselves how we should be governed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on the subject of or-
ganizing the W. S. A. of Salt Lake County; said
that they had to use such material as presented
itself and the very best selections of those who
were willing to work in the cause.
	Nominations for the officers of the Association
for Salt Lake County being next in order, the
following persons were unanimously chosen and
sustained to fill the different offices: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, President; Mrs. Louisa Spencer,
First Vice-president; Mrs. Helena F. Wells
Second Vice-president; Mrs. Rachel Miller,
Third Vice-president; Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh,
Secretary, Miss Emma Finch, Cor. Sec'y.; Miss
Nellie Morris, Ass't. Sec'y.; Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Treasurer; Mrs. Elizabeth McFarlane, Chair-
man of the Executive Board and Miss May M.
Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Price, Mrs. Clara Field,
Mrs. Nettie Culmer, Mrs. Della Eardley, and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, members of the Executive
Board.
	The By-laws of the W. S. A of Utah and the
Constitution of N. W. S. A. were then read by
the Secretary. Mrs. Richards explained some of
the different points in them but felt that there was
no time to make any further remarks.
	The meeting was then adjourned sine die.
		ADA CROXALL Sec.
	Utah Woman Suffrage Association.


The Corresponding secretaries of the National
Council and the National American Woman
Suffrage Association request that the dates of
meeting be stated as follows: National Council
February 22nd 25th. N. A. W. S. A. February
26th—March 1st. The meetings of both organi-
zations will be held in Albaugh’s opera house,
Washington, D. C.


ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister: Thinking perhaps a few lines
from this far off place would not be amiss, I will
endeavor to write you, knowing that most every
one has a peculiar dread of the name of “Arizona”
I should like to enlighten the readers of this
valuable paper a little concerning this isolated
country—but will just say that we have some good
saints in our settlement, I think as true as any in
Zion. We had a visit from Sister Willmirth East
the president of the Relief Society of the St.
Joseph Stake. She came here in Oct., with 
Patriarch P. C. Merrill and wife who had been on
the Gila to attend quarterly conference; they
arrived home on the fiftieth anniversary of their
wedding and their relatives and friends were
pleased to see them home and wish them "many
happy returns of the day."  Sister East stayed
about a fortnight and spent a very enjoyable time
visiting with the sisters and giving advice when
needed. We all feel better in spirits since her
visit and hope she will soon come again, she does
all in her power to do good and help the needy,


and we all desire that she may live long and still
continue in her labors. We had a visit from
 the stake presidency on the 8th of Nov., they
gave good counsel and we are striving to treasure
it up, and live better lives in the future than we
have in the past.
		MARIA MC'RAE.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.

[Concluded.]

upon their lips felt that they had met in the
old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not on
the wings of the wind) but after the manner
of men as his bride. Not long after the old
home was disposed of to Edward, who notwith-
standing his regard for ancestral inheritances
sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous family
who gathered around the same hearthstone on
that festive occasion are scattered far and wide.
Some who were babes then are sleeping in un-
known graves, having perished on the battle
field, others lie where stately monuments mark
their resting place and tell of their heroic
deeds. But though many have died out of
the number who spent Christmas at the old
home yet nevertheless the tribe has increased
and strange to state the fragile little maiden
Deborah who was the prime cause of the ex-
citement has the largest posterity of them all
unless it be the eldest son. It would be im-
possible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin tho' the great ugly well sweep is still
there and the pure water as it was then has
never failed, and the weary traveler halts on
his way to take a drink from the old well,
and the neighbors come hither to get water
when their wells fail. The hemlock grove is not
yet all cut away and the pines still sigh and
moan and shiver, and the evergreens twine
themselves under and around the trees and
shrubs,and the beautiful birds (or their posterity)
still sing the sweet songs that thrilled the
hearts of those happy children in the days
gone by.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
OF
ELIZABETH B. PRATT.

	The incidents of my life while in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
50 years of my life I have been a member: I
have been in peril by sea and by land and
among false brethren, who denied the truth
after receiving it. And in affliction often, but
out of them all the Lord has delivered me, I
can truthfully say there has been no principle
advanced by the leaders of this Church that I
have ever doubted for one moment.
	When I was sick and afflicted I have been
raised up by the prayer of faith many times.
	My parents were religious and members of
the Wesleyan Methodist Church, and they en-
deavored to bring up their children in the fear
of the Lord, I was trained in religious habits
and attended their Sabbath school in which I
took great pleasure, I was connected with this 
school 18 years in my childhood as a pupil and
as I became older I was placed over a pri-
mary class as teacher.
	When quite young I often regreted that I
had not lived in the days of our Savior and His
Apostles and as I pondered over these things I
became dissatisfied with that faith and mode
of baptism. This caused my parents much un-
easiness, I often went in private and prayed
to the Lord to direct me aright and I always
felt comforted.

[Column 2]

	I continued to pray and waited for several
years believing that in time I should be
directed aright. In the year 1840 a friend
handed me a Pamphlet published by the
Latter-day Saints which told of a Prophet be-
ing raised up and of angels appearing that the
true gospel was restored in its fulness with all
its gifts and blessings. I investigated those
principles and became convinced of the truth
so I found the "Pearl of Great Price." A
number of the Twelve Apostles were on a mis-
sion to England at the time and many received
the truth through their teaching.
	On the 4th of September 1840 Apostle
Brigham Young, afterwards President, led me
down into the waters of baptism; on the fol-
lowing Saturday I was confirmed. These
ordinances were performed by men called by
divine authority to preach and administer in
"the kingdom,set up in these last days no more
to be thrown down, nor given to another peo-
ple."
	The Apostle Heber C. Kimball pronounced
great blessings upon my head. Said, "I should
be a great dreamer and warned of dangers and
comforted in affliction." I received a powerful
testimony of the truth which was a great bless-
ing to me in the opposition I had to meet with
from my relatives and past friends. Old as-
sociates turned their backs on me, but I re-
joiced continually because I had received the
Gospel of our Savior and had seen the gifts
made manifest that were to follow the believer
and confirm the word. Soon after I joined the
Church I was invited to where Apostle Kimball
was to give a father's blessing, he turned to me
and asked if I did not want a blessing, I was
overjoyed to receive one from an Apostle, as I
had so often thought, Oh, that I could have
lived in the days of the ancient Apostles and
now indeed I am in the presence of one, en-
dowed with the same power and authority.
He laid his hands upon my head after the order
of the ancients, and gave me a father's blessing
he said I should receive the gift of tongues
which I did that night, and by my faithfulness
my father's family should all come into the
Church, one after another came into the
Church in three months my father being the
last to receive it. He disposed of his property
and we took our leave of our native land on
the 21st of September 1841.
	We sailed on the ship "Tyrean," Captain
Jackson went by the way of New Orleans with
two hundred and seven passengers bound for
Nauvoo. As we wound slowly out into the
river we sang "Lovely native land farewell."
	Joseph Fielding was the presiding Elder on
board. I was very sick for five weeks and was
nigh unto death, but was healed by the ad-
ministering of the Elders, and the prayer of
faith. We were seven weeks on the sea, and
did not arrive in Nauvoo until November.
There I became acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, a great and good man, and to
sit under his teachings,—I felt "That the lines
had fallen to me in pleasant places."
	My father only stayed nine weeks in the
Church after we came to Nauvoo, he aposta-
tized and moved away to Warsaw with the
family intending to return to England. They
tried to persuade me to follow them and gave
me one week to change my mind, but I stayed
on the ship Zion which has brought me safely
thus far on my journey. I returned to Nauvoo
I worked around from place to place; and
nursed the sick, waiting on them for my board,
for all were too poor to pay wages. The Saints
passed through much poverty and sickness also
persecution, but through all this they rejoiced
in the truth, chills and fever were prevalent
there. The Prophet would go from house to
house and lay hands on the sick, and say to
them "In the name of Jesus Christ arise and
walk." Many of the sick had faith to be in-
stantly healed. I was taught the law of Celestial


marriage by the Prophet Joseph, I never
doubted its truth and I felt in time to come I
should enter into that holy order. In July
1843 I was sealed to Parley P. Pratt at Pres.
Young's house, Hyrum Smith officiated, he
brought the revelation on that order and read
it. Sisters Mary Ann Young and Mary Ann
P. Pratt were witnesses. Joseph was sick at
this time.
	When I was first introduced to the Prophet
he held my hand and said, "God bless you."
There was such an influence with his words I
wondered how any one could doubt his being a
prophet. We would meet to worship on the
Sabbath day in a large bowery, he sometimes
addressed the assembly for two or three hours,
the Saints were rapt in profound attention by
the words of inspiration that fell from his lips,
I felt that I could listen to his teachings and
not get tired. Oh, what a blessing to mankind
to hear a true prophet's voice, only think what
a thick vail of darkness would cover the minds
of the people, when there was such a famine
of the word of the Lord. For
He says in Sacred writ, "That He will do
nothing except He revealeth Himself to His
servants the prophets." He laid the plan of
salvation on the rock of revelation, he brought
to light the true Gospel of our Savior Jesus
Christ, by His own word, not a confused mass
of creeds, opinions and ideas of men, but one
faith and one Lord and one baptism, which
makes the Latter-day Saints one in mind, spirit
and action. The Savior says "Except ye are
one, ye are not mine." By the oneness of the
people we know they have the true Gospel.
In it there is no schisms, wherever the Saints
are located, they believe the same Gospel, they
practice its tenets and the elders of the Church
among all people set forth the same principles
as Christ and His Apostles did eighteen hund-
years ago.
	After my father and our family apostatized
and went away I felt very sorrowful, one even-
ing when going to bed I was feeling cast down
and my sister who had been dead a number of
years, came to me and called me by name and
said, "be comforted you are all right, you have
a work to do for me." I wished to inquire
what she meant but she was gone. In two
days after this the Prophet preached on the
baptism for the dead.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA P. A.
	Primary Conference of the Maricopa Stake
was held at Mesa, Sept 2," 1890, Pres Hannah
Miller presiding. As all the business could
not be attended to in the morning's session
conference was continued in the afternoon.
The opening and closing hymns were sung by
the Mesa Primary.
	The oral reports given by the presidents—
Mrs. H. Burton of Mesa. Mrs. M. A. Steele
of Lehi, Mrs. Vilate L. Baron of Nephi—to-
gether with the written ones showed the
primaries of the different wards to be in a
thriving condition.
	Several of the brethren as well as the
ladies present addressed the Conference en-
couraging all concerned and giving excellent
advice concerning the duties of Primary
officers and members, interspersed with the
speaking was quite a lengthy programme
rendered by the children, consisting of songs,
recitations, essays, dialogues, organ solos, etc;
the crowning feature  however, was the Stake
paper "The Primary Gem" containing nothing
but pieces written by the children and read by
the little editress, Annie Prothero. Conference
was well attended and thoroughly enjoyed by
all present.
		INA POMEROY Sec'y.

CASSIA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley on the 17, of
Oct. 1890 at 10 a. m.
	In the stand were Pres. Haight and Coun-
selors; a few local officers of the Society of
the brethren the Stake Presidency, bishops
and others. The sisters assembled were dis-
appointed in not seeing some of the sisters
from Salt Lake City as expected, but who
owing to unavaidable circumstances were un-
able to come. However, matters being ex-
plained the disappointment was overcome and
all enjoyed the meetings.
	During the morning session Pres. Haight and
her Counselors addressed the Conference, urg-
ing the sisters to be prompt in attending their
conferences and meetings and discharging
every duty resting upon them. Three of the
wards were represented as doing favorably
though some carelessness was manifested.
	Bro. D. P. Curtis spoke at some length giv-
ing instances of a recent visit to several places
in Utah and dewlling at some length on the
spirit of the recent General Conference which
he had attended.

	At the afternoon session reports were given
of two other wards. Sister Rosabel A.
Brim and Annie Bird, Brothers Frank Brim
and M. Pickett occupied most of the time.
Following are some of their topics: Society
meeting at general Conference; many think if
they preform a few of their duties it is all
right; should nourish charity; not magnify
wrong spoken of any one; not called to meet
death for religion but to live it every day; as-
sociations of young girls who go from home to
work; teachings at general conference; people
of complaining, fault-finding spirit; any man or
woman buried in baptism, should walk forth in
newness of life; man's degrading himself, often 
below the beast that does nor abuse nature;
must watch in faith that things which tran-
spire may be known to us preaching will not
unite people without practice; the brethren
generally assist the sisters in the performance 
of their duties.
	Brother H. D. Haight made remarks con-
cerning spirit of hurry and work prevalent 
among the people even to the neglect of
spiritual duties.
	Items of business attended to and Conference
adjourned until March next.
			LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	The Primary Associations of Davis Stake,
met in Farmington, Saturday, Sep. 27th 1890,
to hold their semi-annual conference. Sister
Louie B. Felt General President, Sister Ellen
Clawson Pres. of Salt Lake Stake and Miss
May Anderson were present by invitation.
	There were two meetings held, 10 a. m. and
2 p. m. In the morning the children present
were counted and there were 100 boys and 194
girls.
	In this stake there are thirteen fully
organized associations, all in good working
order.
	There is great credit due to Sister Rogers
and her counselors for the excellent manner in
which they conduct these meetings.
	In one or two things especially that are
worthy of imitation. In opening with prayer,
one of the sisters lead, and the whole congrega-
tion repeat in concert. And in calling the
roll, each ward stands up, and the Pres. or
representative states how many are present
from their association, and then all repeat in
concert a sentiment. 
	There was a nice programme, very creditably
rendered by the children. The ladies from


Salt Lake City addressed the children at both
meetings.
	The Bishop of Farmington and some other
brethren were present, and each spoke a few
words of encouragement and advice.
	After meeting there was a general adjourn-
ment to the Fair, which was held in the old
Court House, and a very nice fair it was.
Such a display of fancy and useful articles.
Four nice rag-carpets decorated the corners of
the room, quilts out of number most of them
sewn by hand, and two of them were particu-
larly handsome. A picture frame made by
Miss Luella King age twelve years was very
handsome and unique, being made of leather,
cut into flowers and leaves and then varnished.
	On one table were some little pieces of
patchwork pinned together just as the liltle
sewer had laid it down, and to which is now
attached a sad story. Edith Hogan a little
4 year old girl was very anxious to do some-
thing for the fair, but she took sick and died
the night before the fair opened; and her
mother sent the pieces of patchwork just as
her little daughter had left them.
	One department was devoted to the boys,
who showed their ingenuity by making rakes,
a cupboard, barrow, hammock, some nice
fencing, and a lot of other things, one boy had
grown an immense sunflower, and there were
also some nice rabbits and pigeons.
	Another room was set apart for fruit, pickles
and vegetables, and a very nice showing was
made. All the bottled fruits and preserves
were donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	And I must not forget the little boy who had
broken his leg, and while in bed made some
splashers, and worked them very neatly with
the etching stitch.
	Between meetings a very nice lunch was
prepared in one of the rooms in the Court
House, where the visitors and workers spent a
little time very pleasantly.
		MAY ANDERSON.


SOLITUDE AND ITS ADVANTAGES.

	"The law of compensation governs earth."
Even one's disadvantages may result in her
favor No condition of life has been more
lamented than loneliness and yet loneliness has
advantages which cannot be gainsayed. Chiefest
among these the opportunity which it gives
for the accumulation of force. All work de-
pends upon the expenditure of energy and
that energy in some occult way grows from
processes of life. It accumulates or is dissipated
according to the peculiarities of our surround-
ings and our habits of occupation. The de-
mands of family life require a constant ex-
penditure of force. The same is true of the
demands of business. To recuperate the victim
of nervous exhaustion, we confine him to a
darkened, quiet room. We prohibit conversa-
tion, letters or even books. In this semi-
dormant condition the nerve cells gather up
and accumulate nourishment, endurance. It
rests one to be for a little alone. An invalid
of our acquaintance went from a noisy city
street to a country place and for a week slept
both day and night, awaking only for meals.
The recuperative value of such sleep is enor-
mous.
	But our title referred to conditions of health.
Enforced solitude has produced many of our
greatest works. I say enforced solitude be-
cause we are social creatures and normally we
do not elect to be alone. Moses was obliged
to flee into the wilderness from which he
emerged as the most remarkable leader and
law giver of that or any other time. Even
Christ was driven by the spirit into the wilder-
ness. John Bunyan was incarcerated and the
Pilgrim's Progress was the result. Happy
lives have no history. The heart thrown


back on itself sings the enduring song. Are
you then bereft? Is the object for which you
have striven removed? Are you desolate?
Still your physical constitution is unaltered.
You will continue to manufacture force,
energy, which must be wasted or applied.
What will you do with it? Your responsibility 
does not cease because the usual channel for
youor thoughts has been deflected. Is your life
necessarily lonely? Apply the fact to your own
advantage and that of the world, and yours
may, even become an enviable position through
the noble use which you have made of it.
		The Nightingale.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first Wyoming State Legislature met in
Cheyenne on Wednesday of last week. They
at once elected two eminent woman suffragists,
Judge Carey and Gov. Warren, as U. S.
Senators.
	It should always be remembered that the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is an incorporated body, the papers hav-
ing been recorded in the District of Columbia,
April 16th, 1890. It is therefore capable of
receiving and holding gifts and bequests.
	Mrs. Olive Washburn, of San Francisco, is
about to devote the bulk of her fortune to
founding a Nationalist Colony in California.
Bellamy's "Looking Backward" theories are
to be followed, and all people of good moral
character will be admitted, irrespective of re-
ligious belief. Over $100,000 will be spent in
buildings and improvements. Ex.
	"We learn with great regret that Miss Julia
T. Foster died at her home in Philadelphia,
November 13th. Miss Foster was an earnest
friend and supporter of the woman suffrage
not only in Pennsylvania but nationally, and
those who knew her thus will miss her sweet
face and gentle manners. The warmest
sympathy is extended to her sister, Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery."
	"The examination for the Contemporary
History Scholarship of £100 a year for three
years, offered to women by Mr. Stead, the
London critic, will take place next January.
Names should be sent in to him, at the Review
of Reviews Office, Mowbray House, Norfolk,
Street, W. C., before Dec. 1. The examin-
aiton is open to women of any age and nation-
ality."
	In France, in the post-office and telegraph
service, about 5,000 women are engaged, with
salaries from $160 to $800 a year, and
pensions after thirty years' service. Many
women work in railroad offices, for from $200
to $240 a year. About 35,000 women are
teachers in public schools, and almost as many
more are religious teachers, besides those in
private schools. Ex.
	The Swiss universities are Meccas for
women students. The four schools of Zurich,
Basle, Berne, and Geneva have 183 of these
on their rolls, 72 being in Zurich alone, which
first opened its lecture-rooms to women. Of
these, 132 are in the medical department, 45
in the philosophical, 6 in the law. The
Russians are represented by 107 women
Switzerland by only 15. Ex.
	Mrs. Elizabath A. Reed has written a book
on "Hindu Literature: or The Ancient Books
of India," which will soon be issued by S. C.
Griggs & Co., Chicago. It treats of Hindu
Literature, from the earliest songs, of the
Aryan race to the writings of the mediæval
days. The author reviews the labors of
Sanscrit scholars in this vast field of literature,


and then gives a clear concise survey of the
great Indian epics, whose character and scope
are illustrated by copious extracts. Her work
has elicited the cordial interest of such
authorities as Professor Max Muller and Sir
Monier Williams, professor of Sanscrit in
Oxford University.


A BUST FOR MRS. STANTON.

	The Tribune has reported from time to
time the progress of the fund started by Miss
Willard and in charge of Mrs. Holmes of
Galva, Illinois, for the preparation of a bust
of Miss Anthony for the World's Fair. It
has also from the first protested against fail-
ing to give Mrs. Stanton the like recognition,
to which she is entitled both as the founder of
the organized effort for woman's emancipation
and as the official head of the suffrage forces
of the nation. It is therefore with great pleas-
ure that we announce that in response to many
requests that a fund be started, Mrs. Louisa
Southworth of Cleveland, Ohio, has consented
to be the custodian of such sums as may be
contributed by those who desire thus to com-
memorate in marble one whose work is already
enshrined in the achievements of every woman
of this later day. As soon as sufficient respon-
ses have been made, the contributors will be
asked to appoint a committee to carry out
the work.—Womans Tribune.


OBITUARY
	Sister Sarah Ann Willis Scott, wife of John Scott,
deceased, a resident of Mill Creek Ward, departed this
life Oct 30th 1890, after much suffering and long sickness.
Sister Scott was born in Alleghany Co. Pennsylvania,
Feb. 4th 1825.  She came to Utah in the year 1849.
Passing through all the trials incident to settling a new
country, with patience and fortitude  Through all she
remained true to the covenants she had made.  She has
been a faithful member of the R. S. for many years, she
held the office of a teacher and was always ready in the
performance of her duties.
	Dear friend and co-laborer, we shall miss your Society,
we know you have only gone a little while before, then if
we are faithful, we may be permited to join you in the
mansions of the redeemed.
	We extend our sympathy to the bereaved family.
She leaves four sons, three daughters and twenty grand
children.  Mourn not for those who die in the Lord,  their
reward is sure.
						ELIZABETH HILL, Pres,
						FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF SYMPATHY.

BLUFF WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.

	To Bro. Allan and his wife Jane on the death of their
beloved children John A. and Florence, who died Oct. 20,
and 22, of diphteria.
	Whereas, the Lord in His divine wisdom has taken to
himself your loved ones, and that during the absence of
their father we feel to assure you that you have our heart-
felt sympathy in this your bereavement; and knowing that
the Lord doeth all things well we feel to say; His will be
done.
	Resolved that we tenderly condole with the family of the
deceased in this their hour of affliction and devoutly com-
mend them to the fostering care of him who looks with
pitying eye upon those who suffer.
	Resolved, that in the natural sorrow which we feel for
the loss of our kindred, and knowing it is well with those
who die in the Lord, we find consolation in the belief that
if we are faithful to the cause of Christ we shall meet the
loved ones when time shall be no more, and where sin and
sorrow have no place.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family also that one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication and that it be spread on the
pages of our record.
		MARTHA HAMMOND.
		JOSEPHINE WOOD.
		ELIZA REDD.
			Committee.


Tickets
ON SALE
TO  ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			S. W. ECCLES,
				Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES,  RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


MINCE MEAT.—Five pounds lean fresh beef chopped
raw, two pounds beef suet chopped fine and cleared from
strings, seven pounds of apples chopped fine five pounds
raisins seeded and chopped, five pounds currants washed
and cleaned, one pound citron cut up fine, five table
spoonsful powdered cinnamon, three tablespoosfull
powdered mace, two tablespoonsful powdered cloves, tw
tablespoonsful powdered alspice, two tablespoonsful salt,
two nutmegs, five pounds brown sugar, one pint best
brandy and enough fresh cider to render nice and juicy.
After mixing all together boil ten or fifteen minutes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

