Vol. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1890.			No. 8.


CONTENTS. 
	A Welcome Messenger,—E. A. Crane Watson. 
Aunt Lu's Story. Women's Suffrage Journal.
Manchester England. If You Want to be 
Loved. Miscellaneous. L. D. S. Women's
Meetings. R. S. Reports, Utah and Salt Lake
Stakes. Unwritten Laws for Officers of Wo-
men's Clubs. Notes and News. Notice,—Dr.
R. B. Pratt. Obstetrics,—Dr. E. R. Shipp.
	EDITORIAL. General Conference. Looking
Ahead. Editorial Notes. Wedding Party.
Presendia L. Kimball. A Remembrance of 
the Prophet Joseph,—M. A. P. H. Brigham 
Young's Old Home. The Murder of the Prophets. 
	POETRY. A Woman's Praise,—Youth Com-
panion. To E. A.,—Lula. Greeting,—to F. M.
Lyman,—E. A. C. W. Exile,—C. L. W. Un-
married,—E. J.


A WOMAN'S PRAISE.

They sat upon the rocks beside the sea:
	He still a youth, while gray had touched her hair;
	She praised him, as a woman may, who, fair,
And strong, and kind, with gentle ministry,
Knows well how great her influence may be.
	"I watched your thoughtfulness and tender care
	Of a young stranger.  In my heart you bear
The name of gentleman, for courtesy." 

Years passed, and years divided, as they will,
	The boy and woman; yet, from that glad hour,
Sweet deeds of goodness came his life to fill.
	Ah, who shall estimate the wondrous power
Of woman's praise—her words for good or ill!
	She sowed the seed—eternal blooms the flower.
							Youth's Companion.


TO E. A.

"Forget not the lone one!" thus thou hast written:
	Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget,
The poor, weary heart which too early was smitten,
	Hath suffered and waited, and suffereth yet?

Firm hast thou been in thy faithful endeavors,
	Though the flow'r of life's fondness was crushed in its
		germ;
Though the weakness of mortals, love's strongest tie
		severs, 
Our God is still merciful; still be thou firm.

Man may deceive, but still trust thou in Jesus,
	Who fails not and swerves not, but saves to the last;
Whose love and forbearance still rescues and frees us,
From every dread chain which the tempter may cast.

Dark days have pass'd o'er thee, since last we met thee;
	But there's a day when we'll know no regret;
Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget thee?
	No, gentle friend, we will never forget.
											LULA.


WELCOME MESSENGER.

	Today brings the EXPONENT, I wonder if
it receives as cordial a greeting by every sub-
scriber as I give it? On its arrival, no differ-
ence what my employment (now don't frown
upon me you model house wives) I stop long
enough to glance at the signatures of the cor-
respondents, to see if there are any names an-
nexed thereto of my girlhood associates, or of
those of my many dear friends and co-workers
from the country that was my ever fondly re-
membered home up to the time I assumed the
sacred duties of wife and mother; it only takes
a minute you know, and 'tis such a satisfac-


tion; then the very first time baby is tired or
fretful, how I enjoy rocking her to sleep while
reading the minutes and reports of the P. A.
and R. S. conferences, or an account of some
social gathering oft times showing to me the
names of those who are endeared to me by the
truest ties of friendship, and giving sometimes
quite an insight into their present situations,
and a knowledge that those friends continue
to possess an assurance of the divinity of our
faith, and are willing to lend their assistance
for its furtherance. Sometimes in perusing
these inspiring sketches my eye comes in con-
tact with names (I would like to pen each one)
of those, who have been compelled to leave the
beautful vales of Utah for climes more peace-
ful, if not otherwise congenial, some of whom
are in different parts of Arizona, Colorado, and
way off in Mexico. Pleasing memories they
revive, aye, and sad ones too, but it all serves
to make me feel nearer those dear never to be
forgotten ones, for this with other things the
EXPONENT is always thrice welcome to me, I,
—like many others who are “floating on life's
ocean" have drifted away, away from all child-
hood’s associations.
	This weeks paper also brings "An Answer"
to my "Woman's Calling," in reading it I can-
not help thinking that Sister Mary Anderson
must have misunderstood me, or I do not
thoroughly understand the idea she wishes to
convey, judging from the tone of her article
we exactly coincide with each other’s views
and could we converse orally I'm positive we
would agree admirably with no sign of contra-
diction.	
	Last night Brother F. M. Lyman held forth
in our meeting house, his noble, cheerful
countenance as he arose in the pulpit brought
forth one general look of gratification from the
well filled house, he earnestly implored all to
arouse from the seeming lethargy that had
fallen upon the Latter-day Saints, have our
lamps filled and burning as the signs of the
times were indicative of the coming of the
Bridegroom. May we benefit ourselves by the
timely warning is the hearty desire of,
				E. A. CRANE WATSON.
	Parowan, Utah.


[Column 1]
		AUNT LU'S STORY.
	Very many little, as well as big people, have
asked me to write a story. Well, there are
very many to write, thousands to read, and a
vastly greater number, who want to hear a
story. And now while I think of it, that I
may never have the privilege of passing this
way again; if you will kindly pay attention I
will tell you one, for if I can do any good, or
make any one happy, it would not be hardly
fair to refuse; besides nobody can complain if
I do my best. I scarcely know how to begin,
but don't think I will say, "now once upon a
time," although everything happens, once upon
a time, that is certain—Now daylight has
nearly gone, and the lamplighter is going his
rounds to light the street, we'll draw the cur-
tain closely and look within. We won't mind
if the snow is falling fast, or the wind blowing
it in all directions, and whisking it into the
faces of people who rush along the sidewalks. 
—We think, it is true, of the homeless and
needy; we cant help it, but now you are all
seated looking anxiously towards me, I will
commence my story, but first, let me caution
[Column 2]
you "little midgets," not to put in any of your
odd queries or quirks, for I must go right
along without interruption when once I get
started.—Now in the long, long ago, out in a
great uncultivated country, on a rolling plain
that seemed to stretch away into the sky, all
alone, with not a human habitation in sight, a
little girl of not more than nine summers once
stood, gazing about and around, looking en-
quiringly for some object which had seemed to
disappear as if the earth had swallowed it
from sight, for it had only been a few minutes
(so it appeared to her) since she had left the
carriage by request, to fill a jug with water
from a running stream shaded by willows—
not but a few rods from the traveled road-
way. She had climbed up the steep bank by
the same route that she had made the way
down, and had not gone very far out of sight
she thought, to find a safe standing place to dip
up clear water.
	What can it mean? had her uncle purposely
left her there alone in this deserted place, she
wondered!—just then a flock of birds flew very
near circling around above her head chatter-
ing, as if saying, "who are you? what is the
matter, where did you come from?" she raised
her tearful eyes, looked up into the clear blue
sky, and wondered why God couldn't have
taken her when her dear mamma died, and
why her papa before his death should have
left them in care of this proud, stern man,
who she was sure never loved them, and who,
since her mamma died, had treated her like a
little beggar.
	She clasped her small hands convulsively to-
gether,shuddering at the thought of being thus
forsaken, while her lips moved in the sublime
prayer of "Our Father who art in heaven,"
then came to mind, the sweet verse she had
so often heard her dear mamma repeat, "Be-
hold we count them happy that endure," then
she murmured softly to herself, "Very pitiful
and of tender mercy." The barking of dogs
in the distance caused her to look around in
the direction from whence the sound came,
and for the first time noticed that beyond the
valley stream, lay a wooded country. Presently
two large hunting dogs came sniffing along,
bounding towards her followed by their master
with gun in hand and game-bag heavily laden.
He called the dogs back from the poor child
and manifested more surprise than he probably
would have done, if a wild bear had suddenly
made its appearance in his path; trembling
with grief and fright she rushed forward to-
wards the man beseeching him to save her.
"Where in the name of all the saints, did you
come from child?" She sobbed the sad story of
being left as already related.
	"Well come with me little girl," he said
kindly, "we'll get to a stopping place before
dark if you can foot it fast enough;" then call-
ing to the dogs to keep down, and away from
the child, they started on, for a time they
walked quite briskly, then more slowly pursued
their way until they arrived at the verge of a
circuitous hill, then, more rapidly descended,
at the foot of the hill lay a beautiful running
brook upon which the last rays of sunset
lingered bathing its waters in a roseate hue or
light. Crossing this brook was a bridge of logs,
over this, through a wooded lane of trees, they
passed on a few rods further to a house built of
logs, I think it deserved a more dignified name
than that of cabin, for it had four large rooms,
and two tall wide stone chimnies, besides the


[column 1]
roof was not thatched but shingled, there were
other buildings on the premises also, and the
whole establishment bore the name of “Alby
Lodge.”
	Standing in the wide open doorway watch-
ing their approach, was a kind benevolent
looking woman in a dress of brown woolen,
and wide checked gingham apron. It was a
long walk for the little child, but the patient
feet bore her bravely along until they had al-
most reached the broad stone steps leading to
the open door, then they failed her, and totter-
ing towards them, she would have fallen, had
it not been for the kind ready hand stretched
out to save her. “Poor little girl, she’s so
young and so tired, I found her a long way
beyond the hill crying as if her heart would
break,” said the hunter in reply to his mother’s
enquiring look. Tenderly Mrs. Alby took the
child in her arms, carried her to her room and
laid her down upon her own soft bed; then
prepared her warm drink and food without de-
lay, afterward removing her cloak, wraps, and
traveling bag she had carried in her hand,
carefully taking note of each article of her ap-
parel as she prepared for bathing. The poor
aby, tired limbs, and feet as well were chafed
tenderly, with the hope that by preparing them
for rest through the long night, the weary child
would be quite well in the morning.
	Yet for more than three days the child was
alarmingly ill, often murmuring of “dear
mamma,” asking where she was going, and
frequently starting as from some frightful
dream, clinging convulsively to the kind
watcher whose assiduous and unwearying care
could not have been'more, had she been her
own offspring. There was no regular Physician
or Dr. practising medicine within fifteen miles
(at that time) to be consulted, but under skill-
ful nursing, ere a week had passed she was
happily convalescent.
	“O I have had such strange dreams,” said
she one morning holding out her little thin
hands to the kind woman who had nursed
her so patiently. "I want to love you! O, I
do love you for being so kind to me a poor
lost child!" then the small hands went up over
the eyes flooded with tears, which she could
not restrain. For a few moments not a word
was spoken. Weeping, will relieve her, thought
Mrs. Alby, then she gently wiped away the
tears, smoothed back the glossy dark, brown
hair from her pure, white forehead, looked for
some moments into her still sad face, while a
more intense feeling of tenderness took possession
of her soul as the image of a beautiful girl
of her own, long since daid away in the sleep
of death came to her mind; she sighed heavily
as the mother-love for the darling gone came
rushing back with renewed force into her heart
and bending down to the little girl kissed her
tenderly.
	The evening following the first day little
Dama came from the sick room, she asked Mrs.
Alby for her cloak, where, in an inner poeket,
she had placed several articles for safety, among
them, a small edition of the Bible, handsomely
bound with gilt clasp sind her name engraved
in letters of gold on the outside cover. This
was a Christmas gift from her mother the last
before she was taken from her by death.
	On a fly leaf she had written the names,and
dates of births and deaths of both her hus-
band’s parents and of her own, also the name
and date of birth of herself, and of her child,
and of her baptism, and also, dates of all their
marriages. Dama had put down the date of
her mother’s death in her childish hand. This
little Bible was to her a treasure-trove, price-
less, and precious, as the gift of her sainted
mother. It is probable. Dama’s cruel uncle
did not know of this book nor the other
valuable gifts her mother had placed in her
hands charging her “never to part with them
while she lived, but to keep them as mementoes
[column 2]
of her departed mother.” As she sat by the
window at sunset, propped up with cushions
her little Bible open before her, a golden
gleam of light encircled her sweet, pale face,
like a halo of glory from heaven, so thought
Mrs. Alby and her son Robert. Now for a
time we must leave little Dama rapidly re-
covering making herself the center of attrac-
tion not only to Mrs. Alby, and Robert, but to
their only neighbors the good Scotchman and
his wife (Mr. and Mrs. Douglas) to the faith-
ful colored servants who had a cabin near, but
also to all the domestic animals on and around
the premises; such patient tireless feet, swift to
perform any act of love or duty, making life
in this far away home sunny with her presence.
	I may as well tell you now, before I pro-
ceed farther, what became of the wicked man
who so cruelly deserted this child of his
brother by the same father, after having by
artful means induced him to place all his pro-
perty in his hands for the benefit and best in-
terest, (as in his weakness he was persuaded to
believe) of both his wife and child, and there-
fore in accordance (with the written request of
the dying father) he was appointed legal
guardian of his niece having in trust until she
became of age, or in case of her death previous,
if after the mother’s this should occur, he was
to possess all, amounting to many thousands of
dollars. The mother,whose health was very deli-
cate, trusted and believed it was in good hands.
She had but a slight acquaintance of this man,
and in her ignorance of his true character,
never doubted his integrity. A bad man is
not long at a loss for ways and means to ac-
complish his evil purposes, naturally corrupt
and covetous at heart, he soon came to look
upon the money in his possession as his own,
and to scheme and plan to have it so in reality.
In the presence of his sister-in-law, Mrs. Hast-
ings, he wore a hypocritical mask, but at times
his true nature would flash out toward the
child when off his guard, for in his heart he
wished her out of the way; as it regarded the,
mother he could wait, for he had been assured
by many learned and scientific physicians he
had consulted in the cities of the West, that
only, under the most favorable circumstance
could life be prolonged but a very few years.
This to his inward joy and satisfaction, (al-
though he pretended otherwise)and to bis well-
feigned anxiety, they had invariably advised
great quiet, removal from scenes of excitement,
or from anything that would have a tendency
to distract or disturb peace of mind. Yet, in
the face of all this, he secretly plotted to
destroy it. No sooner had one shock passed
away then another was planned, and such was
his success in this direction that from the last
shock of a fire started in an unoccupied build-
ing next to her own, (which communicated to
the roof) and from which both herself and
child narrowly escaped with their lives, she
never recovered, but lingered on through the
winter and spring at the house of friends in
the country, whither she went from the city
for quiet, and to die. Peacefully and calmly
she prepared for the change as one about to
take a journey to a distant land, commending
her dearly beloved child to the God of the
fatherless, enjoining, her friends to keep her
daughter and be as father and mother when
she was gone. She knew them to be upright
and in every way worthy of this sacred trust,
and supposed her guardian would not interpose
or make any objection to her dying wish and
request. Her friends gave her the most solemn
assurance of watching over her child and of
fulfilling her wishes with, regard to the same as
far as it was in their power so to do. After
this she seemed at rest in her mind,she did not
repine, that she must die so young, her Savior’s
prayer was hers, “Thy will, O God, not mine
be done.” Kissing her darling a last, ‘good
bye,' she bade all an affectionate farewell, and
[column 3]
closed her beautiful eyes on earthly things
forever.
	At the last moment of the sad burial rites,
this unworthy man who had been so earnestly
charged by a dying brother, to be tender and
faithful to his loved ones, made his appearance
pretending great sorrow, and bitterly bewall-
ing the delay of letters, messages, &c., that
had been sent (long before the last one,) tell-
ing him to hasten as she was fast approaching
the dark valley of death that all must at some-
time, sooner or later pass through. The
hardened sinner, dissembled well, and suc-
ceeded so admiirably with Mrs. Hastings
friends and especially with her most intimate
and confidential ones as lead her to believe
that little Dama's advancement and future
good would be greatly enhanced, by going with
him. "Her love for the child, should not,”
she said, "selfishly hold her from opportunities
of such vast importance to her future.” The
school he proposed to place her in, had a well-
earned reputation, especial care was taken of
the young, and nothing should be left undone
to make her happy, nor to give her every ad-
vantage of a thorough education. He also
pretended great affection for the child when
not alone with her. He would visit her often
she would be near his place of business, etc.,
(though what his business was, none knew but
himself.) He would faithfully discharge and
fulfill, the sacred trust and dying request of
both parents. In one year at summer vaca-
tion he would bring Dama “to spend it with
them.” Alas, without hesitation or question,
so completely had appearances deceived them,
they gave this so recently orphaned child into
his hands as they, in ignorance, believed right.
	It was a sad day, when Dama was forced to
take her farewell leave of her little playmates
and of the kind good friends of her dear
mother gone to take her departure with a
 man from whom she instinctively shrank, and
“who she was sure she could not love,.to go
she knew not whither, or with whom to live.”
	The  summer passed on, whilo he had taken
her from one place, to another and after
various plans to dispose of her without being
detected, he took the course of leaving her in
some remote, out of the way part of the West
to be found or perish, as already described.
	Under a well arranged disguise he had
traveled and now made his way back as
speedily as possible. Took passage for England
from N. Y. where he entered into all sorts of
excesses, gambling, speculations, etc., borrowed
the livery of heaven to serve Satan his
master in,” and succeeded by his graceful ad-
dress, in gaining the affections of a worthy ac-
complished lady with the expectation of getting
a very large portion of her property,failing in
this, after squandering the money defrauded
from the widow and orphan of his brother,he
forged a note upon his father-in-law, obtained
the money and fled to Germany, from which
place he was soon brought back by the officers
of the law tried, convicted, and sentenced to
transportation to do service in a penal Colony
for life. Thus,this artful villian was unmasked,
and his deeds made to witness against him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As the flower is before the fruit, so is faith
before good works.—R Whately.
	Where necessity ends, desire and curiosity
begin; and no sooner are we supplied with
everything nature can demand than we sit
down to contrive artificial appetites.—Johnson.
	The impertinent question is again up whether
married women will be allowed to teach in
the public schools. This time it is in
Cincinnatti. A movement has been a loug
time on foot there to prohibit married women
from occupying positions as teachers.
								Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GREETING.

	TO F. M. LYMAN, WRITTEN JUNE, 1889.

A heartfelt welcome to you we extend
Wise apostle, dear brother, and true friend, 
Old time has been moving at even pace, 
And years have flown by since we saw your face,
Yet not a day to us has been given,
But your name has been wafted to heaven.
Asking the Giver to give unto thee	
Resignation, in due time liberty.

Thou art but man, yet the God Eternal
Hast endowed thee, with favors supernal,
Cheerfulness, contentment, judgement sound,
Purity of heart, and wisdom profound 		
Understanding of the heavenly plan,
That's for the redemption of fallen man.
Holy intelligence of things divine
Great man of God, these blessings are thine.

What wonder we hail you with such delight
We believe you can make the dark seem light, 
We think you can heal the broken in heart
And to the perplexed you can peace impart.
Solve the problems we do not understand,
Show us the way to the celestial land;
Yes, to thee a hearty welcome we give,
Unmolested with us long may you live.

Yes gladly we welcome you at this time,
Give us freely of thy doctrines divine,	
You may pour oil upon the wounded heart
Gilead's balm to the troubled impart,
Comfort the mourner, dry the falling tear,
Diffuse love, and peace amidst thy fellows here
That you in good works may ever excel,
Is the united prayer for F. M. L.
								E. A. C. W.


EXILE.
Deprived of every sacred Right,
	Upon the shore he stood;
An exile from his country 
	For conscience and for God- 
A wanderer and a Pilgrim,
	To serve a tyrant's ends;
He longing gazed across the waves 
	And sigh'd for home and friends.

But ah—those friends were far away.
	Across the broad blue waves;
His childhood home, that sacred spot,
	Place of his father's graves. 
The sea-bird skim'd the dancing waves 
	And kissed their snowy crest,
It had a home when night shades came 
	But he—no place of rest.

The wild deer bounded o'er the strand 
	And sped toward the glen;
It had a home across the Lea,
	Far from the haunts of men.
And the white gull soar'd mid heaven's blue vault 
	All bathed in golden sheen 
It sang of home, and liberty,
	Fond treasures not for him.

His fathers' nobly fought and bled!
	To gain that sacred Right 
To honor, serve and worship God 
	Best pleasing in His sight.
This noble blood of ancestry 
	Still coursed thro' all his veins,
To worship God, for conscience sake 
	Though bound with tyrants chains.

When twilight cast its sombre shades
	Along the sea-girt shore,
He bent his fetter'd limbs, and pray'd 
	For liberty once more.
That liberty to worship God-
	As conscience shall dictate,
That Right! bequeathed by God to man 
	In every Land and State.

While yet he breathed those words devout, 
	An Angel bright stood near,


Whilst listening to his prayer to God
	That Angel shed a tear,—
He lean'd and whispered in his ear,
	Sweet words, "Thy trust is God"—
That Angel-tear illum'd his path
	While passing " 'neath the Rod."
	C. L.W.


UN-MARRIED.

I dare not breathe my secret to the ears,
	Of nearest, dearest kindred that I know;
But to my pictured shadow, without fear
	I pour in unreserve my withering woe.

They tell me I am fair, my form divine,
	My eyes are clear, my hair of sunny hue.
My mind well cultured, and my chances fine,
	My life all blameless, womanly and true.

Oh senseless jewels, glittering points of light.
	Rich costly drapings on a comely form, 
You have no power to bring my life delight,
	Nor keep my heart's deep currents bright and warm.

I am a woman, and I must have love,
	I feel the need of children on my knee, 
I am as lone as wretched cast away
	On desert island, in an unknown sea.

Oh shadow of the face in yonder glass,
	Why had you not the power to bring me love,
Oh Jeptha’s daughter in thy mountain pass
	Is thy reproach still thine in heaven above?

Why has no human love, near, warm and sweet,
	Held that deep cup of nectar to my lip,
And laid a true heart at my humble feet
	God knows how gladly I the cup would sip.

My heart has thirsted, famished shrunk, grown old
	While tortured by the sight of food and drink.
For woman’s modesty bids us to wait
	Hedged in by social customs link in link.

Oh thou dear one! whom God designed should walk
	Helper, upholder, lover, husband, friend;
Where are you! Come to me. I’ve waited long-
	Come to me love, or I alone must walk.

I fear no poverty, no pain or woe,
	No frown of fortune and no stoop of pride.
My prince of men on winged feet I’d go
	Upheld by love, if but by thy dear side.

I feel myself, upon the tree of life
	A withered bough, a blasted smitten fruit;
An instrument untuned, or tuned to strife,
	A festal song poured through a shattered flute.

What wonder women, seeing such as I
	Will drink of muddy lees, and link their life,
With men who never knew until they died;
	The tender glory in the name of wife.

I am so lonely, that I could not bear, 
	The wasted time, the torn and shattered hopes,
The loneliness, the longing and despair
	But through the darkness my sad spirit gropes-

To that great light and love and endless power
	God the great Father ever kind and true.
But what can pay me for the lone last hour?
	And woman’s birthright,—that is lost to me?

Still will I dress my body with great care,
	Comfort the sick, and make the downcast glad.
I bear my cross; but O, Thou righteous God,
	My woman's heart is withered, sick and sad.

But when I see a mother clasp her child.
	A noble husband honoring his wife,
My heart is filled with sorrow deep and wild.
	For that is Eden, what I live, is life. 
									E. J.


WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE JOURNAL.

MANCHESTER,ENGLAND.

For twenty years and four months this
Journal has received the impress of one hand
and one mind,so that its long row of volumes


form one continuous work, and now when that
careful hand is laid low and the energies of
that far-seeing mind are carried beyond our
mortal ken, it would seem the most fitting
course to close these pages where Miss Becker
left them, that so the Journal shall be wholly
hers, nor suffer any change to any less ex-
perienced hand or any mind less comprehen-
sive.
	This number consists of matter which was
already in preparation when its Editor passed
from this life, together with a Memorial
Number of recollections contributed by a few
who had known Miss Becker long and well in
her public work.


IF YOU WANT TO BE LOVED.

	Don't find fault.
	Don’t contradict people, even if you’re sure
you are right.
	Don’t be inquisitive about the affairs of even
your most intimate friends.
	Don’t underrate anything because you don’t
possess it.
	Don’t believe that everyone else in the world
is happier than you.
	Don’t conclude that you have never had
any opportunities in life.
	Don't believe all the evil you hear.
	Don’t repeat gossip, even if it does interest
a crowd.
	Don’t go untidy on the plea that everybody
knows you.
	Don’t be rude to your inferiors in social
position.
	Don’t over or under dress.
	Don’t express a positive opinion unless you
perfectly understand what you are talking
about.
	Don’t get into the habit of vulgarizing life
by making light of the sentiment of it.
	Don’t jeer at anybody’s religious belief.
	Don't try to be anything but a gentlewoman
—and that means a woman who has considera-
tion for the whole world, and whose life is
governed by the Golden Rule, "Do unto
others as you would be done by.”


MISCELLANEOUS. 

	An industrious and virtuous education of
children is a better inheritance for them than
a great estate.—Addison.
	Yield once and a portion of virtue is gone.
Resist manfully, and the first decision well
give strength for life: repeated, it will become
a habit.—Samuel Smiles
	We are ruined, not by what we really want,
but by what we think we do; therefore never
go abroad in search of your wants, for if they
be real wants they will come home in search of
you. He that buys what he does not want will
soon want what he cannot buy.— Colton.
	The education of our children is never out
of my mind. Train them to virtue, habituate
them to industry, activity and spirit. Make
them consider every vice as shameful and un-
manly. Fire them with ambition to be useful.
Make them disdain to be destitute of any use-
ful knowledge.—John Adams to his wife.
	The most illiterate man who is touched with
devotion, and uses  frequent exercises of it,
contracts a certain greatness of mind,mingled
with a noble simplicity, that raises him above
those of the same condition. It is hardly
possible it should be otherwise; for the fervors
of a pious mind will naturally contract such
earnestness and attention toward a better being
as will make the ordinary passages of life go
off with a becoming indifference. By this a
man in the lowest condition will not appear
mean, or in the most splendid fortune i


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS		-	Editor
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher Woman's Exponent, 
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	October 1,1890.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	The Sixty-first semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
commence at 10 o'clock a. m. on Saturday, Oct.
4th, 1890, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.  The
officers and members of the Church are in-
vited to attend all the meetings.
					WILFORD WOODRUFF,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON,
					JOSEPH F. SMITH,
							First Presidency.


LOOKING AHEAD.
	That this people, as well as all the people of
the world are living in a day of great events and
changes is a positive fact almost universally con-
ceded.  Men of advanced thought in their writings
and in public speaking admit knowingly and in-
advertently this truth.  Some speak of it as the
noon-day of science, others as the natural
sequence of knowledge arrived at by men's learn-
ing and wisdom of the world's attainments, and a
few there be who look for some great climax of
events, supernatural in their nature and miracu-
lously bringing in the reign of peace.
	The Latter-day Saints however know what is
the tendency of all that is transpiring around them
and that it is the fulfillment of prophecy, and the
natural accomplishment of the designs of the Al-
mighty in the purpose and being of His children
here upon the earth. And while many may fear
and tremble because of what is taking place, and
while those who fear not God, or obey His laws,
are going on blindly in their unbelief and indiffer-
ence, the true Saint should be awake to the situa-
tion and with might mind and strength seek to do
his part humbly and fearlessly in the great drama
of the world's history; remembering meantime
that this people came in to take up the most im-
portant part in the closing scenes.
	This is the day of which we read that Kings
and Prophets looked forward to as the climax,
the triumph of all that was great and glorious.
	Woman as well as man has much to do in the
great events that are now taking place, her help
is needed, she must look to the future and plant
the seeds of faith,of hope and love in the hearts
of those around her, the rising generation, the
children of the saints are under her special care
and training and here lies her greatest opportuni-
ties for work in the great present and the illimi-
table future. The cultivation of the heart of all
mankind in its gentlest, truest sense, lies within
the province of womanhood.
	To accomplish woman's mission in refining,
purifying, elevating, and polishing it is essential
that the gates be thrown open to her by those who
hold the keys of power; and in this connection it
may safely be said the opportunity is coming.


Woman’s sphere is widening, her star is in the
ascendant, resplendent with light,that is shedding
its effulgence abroad and penetrating the darkest
corners with its glorious rays.  Sublime courage
and divine faith are the inspiration she needs to
continue onward and upward, and never grow
weary in helping, blessing and laboring for Zion
wih the firm assurance of victory.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Relief Society Conferences
now on hand will be given space in the next
issue, or as soon afterwards as practicable.
	The Territorial Fair will be opened at the Fair
Building and grounds on the 6, 7, and 8, of Oct.
and with the many other public meetings and at-
tractions during the early days of October will
make things lively in Salt Lake City.
	A Peoples’ Convention for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City on
Thursday Oct. 2, 1890 at 2. p.m. for the purpose
of electing fifteen delegates to the People’s Ter-
ritorial Convention.  The County Convention
will consist of 130 delegates, from the several
wards in this County, with credentials properly
authenticated by the Chairman and secretary of
the Primary meeting which appointed them.
	A General Conference of the Relief Society
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
Tuesday October 7, at which it is expected there
will be representatives from each Stake of Zion:
the President of the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, who has been absent on a visit to
Canada is expected home in time to preside at
the meetings and give instruction to the officers
who preside in the several Stakes.  The meetings
will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. as usual.
	There will be a Convention of the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Ter. held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City on Friday
October 3, commencing at 2 p. m. at which it
expected there will be delegates from the several
county organizations, and an interesting pro-
gramme rendered, also that there will be an elec-
tion of officers for the ensuing year.  Addresses
will be given by prominent speakers both men and
women.  There will also be an Executive session
for business in the morning of the same day at 10,
o’clock.
	There will be a Territorial Convention of the
People’s Party held in this city on Tuesday the
7th day of October 1890, at the Social Hall at 12,
o’clock noon, for the purpose of nominating a
candidate for Delegate to the Fifty-second Con-
gress and to elect a Territorial Central Com-
mittee.  The basis of representation is fixed as
follows: One delegate for each 250 votes cast by
the, People’s Party at the last August election and
one delegate for each county irrespective of the
number of votes cast.  The number of delegates,
have been duly apportioned to the several
Counties.  Salt Lake County 15 and Utah 8.
Weber 7, Sanpete 5, Cache 4, Box Elder 3; other
counties two and one. 
	The Editor had the pleasure of attending by in-
vitation the quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations
of Sanpete Stake held at Mayfield on Friday and
Saturday, September 19 and 20, and is pleased to
state that there was a very good attendance an
excellent feeling manifest and a good spirit per-
vaded the meetings.  The young. Bishop recently
appointed at that place attended all the meetings,
and took the greatest interest in the report of the
sisters labors.  Everything in that beautiful little
settlement indicated space and prosperity,and the
abundant harvest was noticable in the numerous
large stacks of hay and grain not only in Mayfield
but throughout the County.


WEDDING PARTY.
	A wedding reception was given on Wednesday
evening September 10th, at 8. p. m., at the resi-
dence of Drs. M. B. and Ellis R. Shipp in this City.
The happy occasion was the marriage of their
eldest son M. B. Shipp Jr. to Miss Eda Deblin,
which event took place at Manti, the ceremony
being performed by Apostle Anton H. Lund.
Over a hundred guests participated in the festivi-
ties of the evening. Congratulations were in
order, and many were the good wishes and fervent
blessings showered upon them.  The bride was
beautiful in her shining white wedding apparel,
and the bridegroom the picture of radiant happi-
ness.
	There were many useful and beautiful presents,
and the rooms were fragrant with the perfume of
lovely Autumn flowers.  The bride wore beautiful
roses instead of orange blossoms, and they suited
well her rich and creamy complexion. There
were troops of fair young maidens and noble look-
ing young men to enliven the scene, and music
and singing and conversation In such goodly com-
pany made the hours fly swiftly.
	A sumptuous repast was served at which all
the guests were seated and did ample justice to
the bill of fare which included fruits, ice cream,
and wedding cake; a very elaborate pyramid
cake occupied the centre of the table and was
profusely ornamented.  At the top underneath
an arch of silvery flowers a bell swung to and
fro; a very pretty design.
	It was a late hour ere the guests began to say
their adieux.  The newly wedded Mr. and Mrs.
Shipp left for the East on Saturday the 13th inst.
Mr. Shipp goes to Philadelphia to finish his
medical course and his wife will accompany him
with the expectation of remaining until he gradu-
ates.  The writer offers congratulations and
wishes for them every blessing, that will tend to
their best welfare and happiness and enlarge the
sphere of their usefulness.


PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL.
EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY.
	Sister Presendia was eighty years old on the
7th of September 1890—but the anniversary was 
celebrated on the following day Monday the 8th.
About fifty of her friends, most of whom have
been in the habit of assembling there annually,
came with baskets of delicacies and luxuries to
tempt the appetite, and with joyful faces and glad
hearts to comfort, cheer and bless this reverened
mother in Israel who had blessed them and thou-
sands of others in times past, and now when
time has furrowed her brow and whitened her
locks, the daughters of Zion are ready to praise
and honor her.
	The gathering naturally assumed the form of a
meeting as all were anxious for a spiritual feast as
well as a temporal one.
	The meeting opened with the inspirational
hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
An eloquent prayer was offered by Sister Agatha
Pratt, and then all joined again in singing, "Come
let us anew &c."
	Sister Presendia then addressed the sisters in
her motherly manner, expressed her gratitude
that she was permitted to meet them once more
this side the vail.  Brother Gibbons an old friend
of Sister Kimball's spoke a few words, said it was
the first time he had been in a meeting of that
kind but felt the spirit of the Lord was there.
Sisters Milom, Farrow, Cook, Aimed, Culmer
Nebeker, Coon, Pratt, Phelps, Higbee, Mary
Ellen Kimball, Stepheson, Riges, Delia Ann
Pratt, Marry Ann Pratt, Margaret M. Caine,
Maggie Sharp, and others said many good things,
blessed Sister Kimball prayed for her complete


restoration from the accident which befell her in
May and which had debared her from the privi-
lege of attending meetings since, blessed her habi-
tation and surroundings.
	Sister Kimball expressed her happiness in the
midst of so many kind sisters and friends was
grateful for their kind wishes and presence; said
how much she had enjoyed working for the liv-
ing and the dead; advised all to be humble and
work righteousness, blessed all that were as-
sembled there with a mother’s and sister’s bless-
ing. During the afternoon Sister Coon spoke in
tongues and Sister Paul gave the interpretation.
At the close they all joined in singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.” Benediction
by Sister Elizabeth Stephenson.
	Sister Presendia received several beautiful and
useful gifts from her friends; but the best of all
was the kind feeling and good spirit that brooded
over the party while they were joining in prayer
and praise.
	Sister Presendia’s life has been full and rich in
the experiences calculated to develop the higher
and better nature, and for the last forty years a
great proportion of her time has been occupied in
ministering to the sick and afflicted, the sorrowing
and downcast. She has been specially gifted in
faith and in other precious gifts of the Gospel.
Her name is known and honored throughout all
Israel. The writer adds her congratulations and
good wishes to those of the many friends who
unite in praising her good works, and wishing
her continued health and prosperity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A REMEMBRANCE OF JOSEPH THE
			PROPHET.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The subject of Woman Suffrage in the items
you publish occasionally are very interesting,
especially the cause being so gracefully espoused
in Wyoming which is an honor to the state in
establishing such a precedent.
	How little do the world know of the great
Prophet who came among us and turned the “key
in behalf of woman” nearly half a century ago.
	I am thankful that I had the privilege of being
somewhat acquainted with that noble man, the
Prophet Joseph, and hearing sublime truths from
his lips, which at the time, probably, I did not so
fully appreciate.
	I have lived to see many of his predictions ful-
filled, and still greater events are at hand. Some
are painful to contemplate.
	The last time he left his home in Nauvoo he
said: "I go as a lamb to the slaughter.” I saw
him pass with his brother Hyrum whom he could
not persuade to leave him. They were on horse-
back and looked very solemn. Joseph knew he
would never return alive. It appeared that he
might have escaped the unjust decree if he would,
but he said: “He would die for his friends,” and
his innocent blood was shed by mob violence
under the promised protection of United States
officials.
	It was a terrible blow to the Saints; but they
soon learned to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord and that their beloved leader still labors in
a higher sphere for the good of Zion. The work
which he was the honored instrument in the hands
of God of establishing to usher in the last dis-
pensation has progressed far and wide, and will
continue, and no power on earth can prevent it
notwithstanding the gigantic efforts made to crush
this people.
								M. A. P. H.
	Sept. 10, 1890.


[column 1]

﻿BRIGHAM YOUNG’S OLD HOME.

	SOME INTERESTING REMINISCENCES.

It not generally known that Brigham Young,
the erstwhile leader and defender of the Mormon
faith, married his first wife in a small village in
Central New York know as Port Byron, where
he lived for several years. He was married in
1824,and the woman’s name was Works. Brigham
was engaged in the manufacture of wooden pails
there, and worked in a factory which afterward
was changed and became quite extensively known
throughout the state as Hayden’s woolen mills.
Though that was many years ago the factory is
still in possession of the Hayden family, one of
the best known in the vicinity.
	The part in which Brigham operated still stands
though expensive additions have been joined on
by the Haydens, and the manufacture of “no
shoddy” goods is still continued at intervals, by
one of them.
	The location was visited by a representative of
the Times a short time ago, and the old factory
and its surroundings presented many interesting
features. There are a few houses surrounding it,
lining the road above and below, promoted years
ago by the very considerable business which was
carried on at the factory, some of which were
occupied by the owners of the factory and others
by those engaged in manipulating the shuttle.
The most of them showed evidence of being well
cared for and are in good state of preservation,
with spacious grounds, almost farms, In nearly all
instances.	
	It is a charming spot, and an actress from New
York city grew so enthusiastic upon, first visiting
the locality that she bought one of the places and
uses it as a summer seat. It is not to be wondered
at that Brigham, with his taste for the artistic and
beautiful, became infatuated by the rural mellow-
ness pervading the atmosphere made more en-
chanting by the soft rippling of the stream flow-
ing between the meadowed base of the sloping
woodland upon either side. The location is about
one-half of a mile from the village, on Owasco
outlet, a handsome little stream, with banks well
defined, richly covered with verdure, upon which
tall trees, with wide-spreading, drooping branches
stand, shutting out the sunlight from the water.
About the residences are neatly-trimmed lawns,
rising from the roadside, and aged maples, Cast-
ing over all the delightful shade of summer, and
comfort pictured upon either-hand.
	Such the writer found Hayden's woolen
mills to be as he stepped from the dusty stage,
which has daily been for years the convenience
of travel between the village and Auburn. One
warm afternoon in July last, the factory was silent
and no living thing was in sight except across the
stream near a house some 500 yards dis[---] 
man was seen slowly following [-] [--]amy old
white horse, plowing in a potato "patch" in the
corner of the yard near the roadway. The house
was of the farmhouse style, with a long veranda
across the front, and neatly trimmed vines were
clinging about the supports and around the win-
dows also.
	In front were shade trees and the familiar
cherry tree, into which a neat, middle-aged lady
was reaching for the fruit from a step-ladder. She
started a little with surprise, but pointed to the
potato “patch,” indicating the man of the house
was there. Leaning against the plow handles and
pushing his hat back from his well-bronzed face,
a merry twinkle, of merriment crept into his eyes
as in mock solemnity he replied:
	“Yes; I suppose this is sacred ground. Right
where you now stand Brigham Young’s house
stood until a short time ago, when it was torn
down. I knew him well as he lived about here
many years, and I have always lived here. He
used to work in that factory over there, which be-
longed to my father. It was a pail factory then,
and sixty-three years ago the 14th of last month
(June) Brigham began painting pails there. 
	"The house in which he lived stood here, but
the fingers of time made a wreck of it, and it be-

[column 3]
came tenable only for fats and mice, and I tore it
down. Since I have been cultivating the ground
I have turned up with the plow several spoons,
knives and other articles which I suppose were
once in use by him. There is a house in the
village which he built still occupied and in good
condition.
	“He married his first wife there in 1824, and her
name was Works. He was married by a justice
of the peace, whose name was Pine. Esquire
Pine. Pine died several years ago, old and very
poor.
	“He was somewhat dependent upon the village
for support, and a short time before he died we
got up a golden wedding for him; a sort of bene-
fit. When Brigham left here he owed Pine a
small amount, so I sent him an invitation to the
wedding as a reminder of the same. Well, the
old fellow sent Pine a draft for $100 and it did
the old man good.  I remember when Brigham
went West. Wonderful reports came back here
of the empire he had built up at Salt Lake.
Several large families were broken up by it, and
a large number wanted to follow him while others
did not.
	“At all events we have always taken a keen in-
terest in matters with which he has been asso-
ciated. I think his own family was divided, a
part of his wife’s folks going and others remain-
ing. Some of them are still living in this (Cayuga)
county. Brigham was quite a hustler and pos-
sessed considerable magnetism, which he used to
advantage to himself after leaving here. He
never came back. A few years ago one of his
sons stopped off at the village for an hour or 
two, but told no one what his business was,
though he made himself known. Now this is all
I know,” said the man, who was ascertained to
be Charles Hayden, as he took hold of the plow
handles, and clucking to the old Horse continued
plowing the potatoes.—Denver Times.


THE MURDER OF THE PROPHETS.
THE ORIGINAL CORNER'S VERDICT ON THE
MASSACRE IN CARTHAGE JAIL

	[Ogden Standard Special,--S. F. Chronicle Service]
	CARTHAGE, Ill., Sept. 11.--An interesting re-
covery was made by Thomas B. C[---], a pioneer
citizen, while hunting [---] pile of rubbish in
one of the courthouse jail rooms. It is the origi-
nal co[---]'s verdict on the killing of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith at the old Carthage jail, on June,
27, 1844. The verdict reads as follows:

	"We the jury, having been duly sworn by 
George W. Stigall, coroner of Hancock county,
diligently to inquire and a true presentment make
in what manner and by whom Joseph Smith and 
Hyrum Smith, whose dead bodies were found in 
and at the Jail of Hancock county on the 27th day
of June, 1844, came to their deaths, after having 
heard the evidence and upon full inquiry concern-
ing the facts and a careful examination of the said
bodies do find that the deceased came to their
deaths by violence, and that the body of the said
Joseph Smith has upon it the following marks,
to-wit: A wound of a bullet near the right breast
and another in the right shoulder near the neck; 
and that the said Hyrum Smith has the following
marks, to-wit: A wound in the throat by a bullet
and a wound in the abdomen; inflicted by some 
person or persons to the jury unknown and which
the jury find to be the cause of their deaths."
	The document is signed by Wesley Williams, 
Franklin J. Bartlett, Aaron Griffiths, Anthony 
Barklan, George C. Waggoner, Peter Biean,
George Bachman, Thomas Barnett, Elam S.
Freeman, John Maherman, Simon Pennock, 
Samuel Gilpin.
	The endorsement reads: "Verdict of jury on


inquest upon the bodies of Joseph Smith and
Hyrum Smith, filed October 25, 1844.
		J. B. BACKENSTOS, Clerk."
	The document does not appear to have been
filed until four months after the killing and the
inquest. There can be on doubt at to its genuine-
ness. If is written on an excellent quality of old
style line foolscap, faintly ruled, and is discolored
by time.  So far as known, the only person now
living who was on that jury is Mr. George C.
Waggoner, of Pilot Grove township.  Mr.
Griffiths, who found the paper; saw the Smith 
killing.  He was a member of the Carthage
Grays that guarded the jail.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the 
sisters was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms July 19, 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened with singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Stevenson, singing 
"When the voice of friendship's heard," Pres.
Horne made opening remarks which were very
suggestive of the signs of the times and the in-
difference that existed among the people de-
plored the lack of zeal and earnestness in 
spiritual things and urged the sisters to attend 
to every duty devolving upon them.  Was
thankful for all the trials she had endured and 
through which she had been enabled to stand.
	Mrs. Sarah Phelps who had been absent
from the Saints for some time, rejoiced to be 
again in the midst of the sisters, realized many
of us were growing old but our children
would come forward and carry on the work 
we had begun.
	Pres. E. S. Taylor gave an account of her 
recent visit through Oneida Stake, where the 
sisters had held 28 meetings during their trip.
Remarked what a large number of children 
there were in Chesterfield, counted 30 little
boys on one row of seats; commended very
highly the diligence of the sisters there in at-
tending their meetings though many had to go 
such long distances.
	Sisters Seabeck, E. Stevenson, J. C. Howe,
M. Player, F. Smith, Dyer and Dr. E. S.
Barney each made brief remarks. Dr. Barney
gave some of her experience in conversing with 
strangers, thought the time not far distant 
when many would come here and receive the 
Gospel.  Pres. Horne said she could bear the 
same testimony of the people in Sanpete Stake
that Sister Taylor had of those in Oneida, re-
joiced in the sisters' meetings, and wished there
were more sisters who realized the importance
of meeting together for mutual benefit. Her
love for the Gospel had grown stronger in her 
fifty years experience; said it was twenty-five
years since these meetings were organized if 
her memory was correct on the subject.  Ad-
journed for two weeks, singing "When shall
we all meet again," benediction by Mrs. Julia 
Pack.

	Saturday August 2nd, Coun. B. W. Smith
presided at the meeting, singing was followed 
with prayer by Mrs. Julia Pack, singing "For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee," minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Mrs. Rachel Grant was the first speaker, she
had been absent a long time and had visited
some of the settlements of our people in
Colorado, they are very desirous that others
should visit them they need encouragement,
they need assistance, the speaker gave a 
graphic account of the condition of the settle-
ments and spoke eloquently upon the times in 
which we are living and the great events 
transpiring around us.
	Coun. Minerva W. Snow, said "we are lay-
ing up treasures in heaven, as I grow older I 
can see that the trials I have passed through
have been good for me and brought me nearer
[column 2]
to my Father in heaven, He will carry us
safely through and we will come off victorious
if we are obedient and faithful.  In my labors 
in the Temple I feel I am as near my Father
as I can get, at times I feel that our dear ones
who have passed away are very near us, as 
Brother Wells says, the veil is getting very 
thin between the living and the dead, the 
more work we do for the dead, the greater
our desire to do for them.  When I leave 
the Temple and come to this City I feel as 
though I was in another world; but we must 
not be discouraged, the day of our redemption
is nigh and may we never falter."
	Mrs. E. Stevenson loved to meet with those
who had been associated with the Prophets 
and Apostles, and had borne the heat and 
burden of the day, she would rather abide in 
the House of the Lord on half-rations than
not be there; thought it was more difficult
now than ever to raise our children right, had
once heard Brother Taylor say that the 
Prophet Joseph gave him a key whereby he 
would never apostatize, it was that he should 
attend to his prayers night and morning. 
	A prayer was then offered for a sick boy by
Mrs. Mary Silver, and a hymn was sung by the 
congregation.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said she was struck
with the request of Sister Silver in her prayer
that the Lord send an angel to touch the child
with a healing finger, she thought the Lord
had done that on many occasions.  In con-
versing with Brother Wells once he made the 
remark that we had come out of Babylon, but
had brought Babylon with us, we would not 
have believed ten years ago that we would be in 
the condition we are today.  I rejoice that the 
time is not far distant when Christ will reign,
I hope the Lord will help us to dispense peace
comfort and joy, it is the mission of us all, we
are full of errors but if we are humble the 
Lord will be merciful. 
	"Dr. Barney, "We are all different in our 
feelings until we are touched with the spirit 
of the Holy Ghost, then we are one, the events 
we have been looking for in years past are
right at our doors. Our enemies have stolen 
from the storehouse of the Lord; and we know
if we serve the Lord we must suffer persecu-
tion.  We must not waste our time but edu-
cate our children to fill our places."
	Mrs. M. Silver spoke upon voting, "if we 
cannot vote ourselves now as we did formerly
we can help and influence our fathers, hus-
bands and sons, I think it is an important
duty."
	Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough gave some good 
advice to mothers.
	Coun. B. W. Smith made a few closing re-
marks.  Meeting adjourned for two weeks, 
singing "Great God to Thee,"
	Saturday August 16th, Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding.  Meeting opened by singing "Oh
my Father" prayer by Mrs. J. Pack, singing
"Guide us, O, thou great Jehovah." Minutes
read and approved.  In Pres. Horne's opening
remarks she referred to a meeting she had at-
tended in Granite where Pres. Woodruff and
Brother Penrose had been the speakers, and 
they had spoken very strong of faith, without
which very little could be accomplished, that
is pleasing in the sight of the Lord.  Read a
chapter in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
upon Faith, and spoke earnestly upon the sub-
ject, also read a revelation upon baptism for 
the dead, and advised the sisters to read often
from this book, and gave excellent instruction
upon diligence, cautioned the sisters to beware
of slothfulness; she gave a strong testimony
concerning Joseph the Prophet, referred to the 
great blessings he received from the Lord and 
the vast amount of work he accomplished in 
the fourteen years be presided over the Church 
and then he sealed his testimony with his 
blood.
[column 3]
	Mrs. Susan S. Young thought it would be 
well for us all to read more from good books,
she could always find something new, testi-
fied to the truth of work in which we are en-
gaged, and said "I stand as a living witness of 
its truth, in the great trial I was called to pass
through last fall, I felt I had not the strength
to endure it, but I kept the word of wisdom
and prayed to my heavenly Father in great
faith and I have gained in health ever since,
I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in it all."
	Mrs. Norman bore a faithful testimony and 
spoke of the goodness of God to us as a peo-
ple.
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon faith and 
also of the wisdom the young ladies manifested
in their meetings, thought they were making 
great progress in gaining true knowledge.
Related a dream in which the Lord had said,
"I will preserve my people."
	A number of sisters bore testimony and 
many excellent things were said to bless and 
encourage the sisters in their labors.
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke concerning our trials
and advised all to be humble and go to the 
Lord with their troubles and He would help 
them in every time of need, if we have faith
enough we can always get comfort.
	Pres. Horne added a few words of encourage-
ment and the meeting was adjourned for two 
weeks, sung Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Brown.

	Saturday Aug. 30th, Pres. Horne presiding
meeting opened with singing "O, say what is 
truth" prayer by Mrs. M. Silver, singing "O,
my Father," minutes read and approved.
	Pres. Horne spoke upon the "Golden Rule,
and what happiness its observance would bring
about, spoke of the need of seeking to correct
our own weaknesses, and of the humility neces-
sary for those who stand up to teach the prin-
ciples of truth.  Mrs. Waterfall made a few
remarks and expressed her great desire to do 
good and live faithful.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze spoke upon the effects of 
prayer, and the need of acknowledging the 
hand of the Lord in all things even in death
and how hard it was for us to do so except
we had the spirit of the Lord with us.  It is
hardest when our children go astray, yet we
know the Lord suffers nothing to come to his 
people except what will eventually be for the 
best good of his children.
	Mrs. Watmough and Pres. M. McMaster
and several other sisters spoke of the tempta-
tions now before the young and upon other
interesting subjects, and related some circum-
stances of marvelous healing of the sick.
	Mrs. Harriet Young said: "It is a great sat-
isfaction to me to speak to my sisters, I have 
been in the Church a long time and have had 
much experience.  All who know me know 
that I am naturally sceptical;" gave her idea of 
baptism, and the necessity of explaining it to 
our children.
	Pres. Horne announced the R. S. Confer-
ence on the 11th of September and hoped those 
present would urge the sisters to come to the 
Conference. Meeting adjourned for four weeks. 
Sung "The time is far spent." Benediction
by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson. 
				VILATE R. YOUNG, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society held
Aug 29th 1890 in the Meeting House of Provo
City.  President Mary John presiding, with
her Counselor Marilla M. Daniels. Sister Lucy
B. Young also present, Conference opened by
singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference, written reports from the
different branches throughout the county were
also read.


[column 1]
	Pres. John made a few opening remarks.
Spoke of the pleasure it was to her to meet
with the Sisters in Conference, and to hear
the reports read and to mark the progression
of the Society.  Spoke encouragingly to the
sisters and exhorted them to continue faithful
to the end.  Said she would now give way for
the Presidents to report the branches over
which they presided.  Fourteen branches were
reported as being faithful to their duties, united
and energetic in their labors.  The gifts of
the Gospel were often made manifest in their
meetings and a general good feeling was among
the sisters; there were a great many strong
testimonies horne to the truth of the Gospel
and a great deal of good instruction given, the
Spirit of the Lord was in our midst to a
great degree, one sister spoke in tongues, and
another gave the interpretation which was of 
a nature to comfort and encouraage the Saints
in well doing.
	Many sisters spoke whose remarks would
be well worth reading if time and space would
permit.  The forenoon services were concluded
by singing "May the grace of Christ our
Savior."  Benediction by Marilla M. Daniels.
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session, Convened at 2 p. m.
opened with the usual exercises.  Prayer by
Father-Graves, Sister Rebecca — Standring of
Lehi was the first speaker in the afternoon,
after reporting her society she bore  her testi-
mony to the truth of this work.  Said it was
forty years since she had embraced the Gospel,
and felt thankful every day that she had
embraced it, there was nothing on this earth 
that could compare with it, or that she would
exchange for it, had many testimonies of its
truth.  We came here for a purpose, our
mission was given us, and we need the Holy 
Spirit of God to enable us to accomplish it.
We need his Spirit to guide us that we may
detect  the true spirits from the false.  Let us
set examples worthy of imitation.  I gave up
everything near and dear for the Gospel but
His arm of love has been around me and
sustained me, and I pray that I may hold out
faithful to the end.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt that we had all
come here to day for a blessing and we had
been blessed for the Lord is with us; it is all
the kingdom of God. Let us use every bless-
ing for good, the Lord will suddenly come to
His temple and let us be ready  with oil in
our lamps, and our garments ready for his
coming.  Sister Young gave a great deal of
good instruction to the sisters on various
subjects.
	Sister Marilla M. Daniels knew that Joseph 
Smith was a prophet of God, and if we would
live up to his teachings we would be saved 
She gave an account of the visit of Pres. John
and herself to the branches of the R. S. in the
different wards in the county, found a good
spirit wherever they went ect. Pres. John felt
the time was well spent in receiving good in-
structions and hoped we would treasure up
and remember them.  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Singing Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing," Benediction by Anna K.
Smoot.
						C. DANIELS Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE
	Minutes of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
Conference held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Sept. 11th 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  On the stand were the following ladies
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Con-
ference opened by singing "Praise ye the
Lord," prayer by Mrs. Diana Reid, singing
"O happy souls who pray."  Roll called 16 
presidents, 10 counselors, 2 teachers, 2 secre-
taries responded. Minutes of last conference
read and accepted, reports read.

[column 2]
	Mrs. Grant: “I have implicit confidence in
our Heavenly Father that He will override
all things for the good of His people.  I hope
we appreciate our blessings, we can enjoy
peace of mind and the spirit of the Gospel, let
us have charity for each other, I wish we could
live so pure as that the wicked could be
bound, but the Lord knows best.  There is a
great work for us all to do, when I think of
the work for the dead I think we have a great 
deal to do, I fear we let our minds dwell too 
much on the things of the world.  How dif-
ferent things are now to what they were when
we came to these valleys, then we were thank-
ful for great blessings, now we are blessed with
all the luxuries, are we as thankful as we were
then?  Well let us be patient and trust in the
Lord and let us acknowledge His hand in all
things."
	Mrs. Kimball gave good counsel on the Re-
port question, though there is an improvement,
still there is room for more, let us improve in
all that is educational.
	Mrs. Horne said: "I am pleased and proud
of the work done by the R. S. of this stake;"
instructed the Secretaries to send in their re-
ports before the 20th of Feb. and 20th of Aug.
"We are ambitious that we get credit for the
work we do, years ago when we were poorer
than we are now, we were given more to re-
ligious duties and spiritual affairs, it looks as
if we had now too many worldly things to take
care of and we neglect that, that is for our 
eternal welfare.
	There are those in our country who have
a desire to destroy the youth of the Latter-
day Saints let us put our children on their
guard to be able to overcome such temptations,
we do need to watch the morals of our youth,
let us be honest, let us pay back what we
borrow, so that we may have full confidence in
each other, where there is confidence there is
union, let us be united, we are being tried now,
but if we stand the test the Lord will deliver
us in His own due time.  Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., singing “Our God we raise to
Thee," benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.

	2 p. m., Conference continued by singing
"For the strength of the hills," prayer by Mrs.
Emily Stevenson.  Singing "O, say what is
truth."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said: "The Relief Society
is a help to the work of the Gospel we expect
to always have the poor to help, and every
other labor that pertains to the work of God
on the earth.  Let our works correspond with
our teachings and set a good example before
the growing generation; let us pass over our
trials and keep hold of the iron rod, let us be
humble and faithful to the end."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: “I know you have
come to be fed to give you new thoughts with
regard to our labors.  The Latter-day Saints 
have a strength, a spiritual strength more
than any other people on the earth.  Therefore
when we have the inspiration of this spirit we
help and bless each other.
	Mrs. E. Howard, desired the inspiration of
the spirit of God, “we get careless in attending
meetings and it becomes hard to live as Lat-
ter-day Saints, do not patronise outside attrac-
tions; now we do not seem to be different from
other people, we are on the verge of some im-
portant change, let us be prepared for what
may come.  There should be honesty that there
may be unity.
	Honesty should prevail in our midst, purity
must prevail if we would enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, let the Young Ladies co-operate
with the Relief Society they are needed and
the association will do them good, we should
watch and pray that we fail not in our callings,
let us each make a little heaven at home.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said: "I hope we all have
a testimony of the Gospel, and not let a spirit

[column 3]
of indifference creep over us so that we will be
asleep. We should be a peculiar people in
faith, in healing the sick, in the blessings of
the Gospel. Many are cultivating the knowl-
edge of the Gospel, but many are getting care-
less, let us teach our children the faith that
can heal our sick.  We are living in perilous
times and we are getting to love pleasure more
than right, spending money in many ways
that are not right, true pleasure is not enjoyed
in such things, it is only by the presence of
the spirit of God we enjoy true pleasure, let
us set an example that is worthy of imitation
in all things, let us look after those who are get-
ting lukewarm, or careless in the ways of the
Gospel, may God help us to magnify our call-
ing."
	Mrs. Horne said: "Guard well your children
you can't be too watchful over them, it is the
plan of the Devil to lead away the children
of Zion from the truth.  Let prayer be our
safe-guard and pray with our children that
they may have a knowledge for themselves of
the truth of this work, let us wake up to seek 
the kingdom of God first, let us take time
to go to all meetings.  Remember that the
Lord rules and will turn all things to our
good, we must be firm and steadfast to the
principles of the Gospel, let us be prepared for
all the trials that may come even to the
giving up of our property or even our lives,
still I don't think there will be any bloodshed
in our day, in our most trying times the Lord
has been with us, we are not cast down we
have plenty around us, the Lord requires us to
make a good use of the blessings He has given
us.  Let us be up and doing and watch as well
as pray and do good to all we can.
	Mrs. Susan S. Young said: "I am thankful
for what I have heard here today, the organi-
zation of the Priesthood is perfect, and the R.
S. is patterned after the Pristhood, therefore
should be kept in perfect organization.  If we are
in possession of the spirit of God we are filled
with peace.  Let us say all the time O, Lord
help me to do right, we want Him to help us
always, if we do right the Lord will help us,
and bless us and give us power to overcome.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths said: "We have seen a
great deal worse times than we are living in
now, but the Lord rescued us, and He will
again.  I rejoice in the knowledge of the
Gospel, I had the privilege of shaking hands
with the Prophet in Nauvoo, and the precious
feeling of friendship has never left my hand
yet; the Priesthood is here the same as it was
when the Prophet Joseph was on the earth, and
let us honor it by being obedient to the
commandments given from God.
	Mrs. Horne spoke on the education of our
children, not to have them taught by those not
knowing the Gospel,  "we have had warning
enough on this subject, let us keep our children
at home before we send them to schools that
will lead them away from us; let us stay stead-
fast to all the principles of our holy relig-
ion.' "
	Conference adjourned for three months.  The
Presidency of the Relief Society were voted
for unanimously, then the Presidency of the
Relief Society of this Stake were sustained.
Singing "Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
Benediction by Mrs. Mary S. Clark.
					E. HOWARD, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UN WRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS-

BY AMELIA K. WING.

	The whole duty of officers is not recorded in
Cushing's Manual, or in any book devoted
simply to parliamentary usage.
	It is absolutely essential that an officer be 
conversant with these laws and abide by them.


[column 1]
﻿but club members must feel that the success
and popularity of an officer depend quite as
much upon her compliance witn certain un-
written laws as upon her knowledge of those
well defined, fixed rules which all expect her
to recognize.
	From a somewhat extended experience of
official life in various capacities, as well as
observation of both failures and successes, I
venture to define more clearly some of those
vague, unexpressed laws which make the
difference between one officer and another, but
which not all quite understand, premising
always that my remarks refer to officers of
women’s club, and are not necessarily
applicable to other organizations.
THE PRESIDENT.
	Of course it is a great advantage if a presi-
dent has received the mental discipline of a
college education, and is familiar with all the
modern methods of thought and training; if she
understands several languages, is able to quote
with ease,and is authority for correct pronuncia-
tion and style. But college bred women are
not as yet, numerous, and are generally young
and a woman may be able to fill all these re-
quirements and still be an unsuitable president.
	She must have had sufficient education to
render her familiar with all general subjects,
to give her clear ideas and ability to express
them correctly, and if, as has been declared,
"education is nine parts mental friction," the
other tenth should be sheer native ability.
	But the first requirement is earnestness of
purpose and enthusiasm in her work, so that
she may be natural in her actions, and able
to rise above any timidity and discouragement,
at times almost forgetting her own existence.
	If she have this zeal her associates will
forgive many failures in other respects, and if
she have it not, in some degree, she will be
self-conscious and hesitating, and no amount of
knowlege or skill will atone for it or make her
a popular officer.
	A president should in a measure, have a
judicial mind, enabling her to see all sides of
the question, especially the truth that is on
the side of the minority. She should be
strictly impartial and impersonal in her rulings
being guided only by what seems to her right
and according to the best usage. Her own
[---] she must ignore, as she is there to
carry out the [-]ishes of the club and to be 
the medium of its op[---]ions.  Her views may 
be expressed in meetings [--] the Board of 
Directors, and her personality can[---] but be
impressed upon the club through her influen[--]
upon the offices and various committees.
	In the chair she should have sufficient con-
centration to be able to follow carefully the
line of thought of each speaker, and enough
acquaintance with the subject to occasionally
ask a suggestive question or advance an idea
when the discussion lags; at the same time
she should be on the alert to see every one
who enters the room, and observe and en-
courage any one who may wish to speak; she
should have dignity without severity, to
which a sense of humor always adds a grace;
she should have a kind heart that can
recognize an honest effort, and be quick to
cover a failure or a mistake; and she should
encourage and draw out the timid, never
allowing the meeting to be monopolized by
a few.
	If possible she should know each member
by name, as well as something of her charac-
teristics; and she should be conversant with
the workings of every committee, as she will
thus avoid mistakes and be better able to
ward off or to harmonize differences.
	She should never interfere in the work of
the committees, or decide for them, but be
ever ready with suggestion or helpful thought
when she sees they are needed or welcome.
And let her not be afraid to express approba-

[column 2]
tion in an appreciative aud not in a patroniz-
ing manner.	
	While the position demands au oversight of
all, it does not justify an assumption of
superiority, which is always offensive.
	True appreciation of the responsib[-]lity and
value of an office, and a self confidence,
without which it could never be rightly filled
are entirely consistent with a proper estimate
of one's self,and with the humility and modesty
which are ever born of high ideals.
THE VICE PRESIDENT.
	The qualities necessary for the president ap-
ply equally to the vice-president, as circum-
stnces may transfer the duties of the offiice to
her a large share of the time.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Presbyterian order of deaconesses is under
consideration.
	Hereafter, girls will be admitted to the
State Agricultural School of Rhode Island.
	Julia Brink, a medical writer of some
note, has received from the British Medical
Association of London $I00 to defray the
expense of publishing a physiological treatise
on the nutrition of the muscles. Dr. Brink is
the first woman to be thus honored. 
	Ex.
The South Dakota Equal Suffrage Song
Book, is a collection of spirited suffrage songs.
Unlike most suffrage song books hitherto
published, the music is given as well as
the words. Price ten cents. Address W. F,
Bailey secretary South Dakota E. J. A. Room
9, Hills block, Huron, South Dakota.
	The good gospel of equal human rights for
women is spreading everywhere. At this
moment, the Hampton Guardain, published
at Hampton Court House, South Carolina,
gives the use of its columns to publish extracts
from the excellent speech of George Wm.
Curtis on "Fair Play for Women.”Mrs. Virginia
D. Young edits a column in this paper.
	Wyoming had its first State election on
Thursday Sep. 11th to choose State officers
and a Legislature. For twenty one years the
women of Wyoming have had full political
rights, and have voted at every territorial
election, during that time. The men of
Wyoming, in the most loyal way, have stood
by the rights of the women, and now having
come, into Statehood together they will unite
in the choice of [---] United States Senators.


[Column 1]﻿
NOTICE.
	On October 14, Dr. Romania B. Pratt will be-
gin another class in obstetrics. A limited num-
ber of students will be given positions in the
Deseret Hospital, where further particulars may
be obtained from the Doctor. Those who take
advantage of this opportunity to advance in this
important branch of study cannot do better than
identify themselves with the class, Dr. Pratt be-
ing a thoroughly competent teacher.

[Column 2]
[image of Union Pacific shield]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT- 
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,  
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


OBSTETRICS.

	For the past ten years Dr. Ellis R. Shipp has
taught large classes in Obstetrics, and through
the earnest solicitation of those specially in-
terested still continues her labor of love in that
direction, for the great advantage and indeed
necessity of this knowledge cannot be overesti-
mated. How soul-sickening is the oft told tale of
suffering and death of the mother while passing,
through the greatest ordeal of her life–the bear-
ing of the souls of men!


Who can but realize the importance of skilled
help that suffering may be reduced to a minimum
and death at this sacred period remain for ages
unheard off.
	The introductory lecture of Dr. E. R. Shipp’s
Winter class will be given on Friday Oct. 10th,
at 4 p. m. All interested are cordially invited to
attend at her residence No. 34 South 7 East St.
Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
