VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1890.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS.

	Lost and Found,—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
Autobiography,—Elizabeth B. Pratt. From Far
Away,—E. A. Crane Watson. The Coin of
Polite Society. Girls Behind the Counter.
Queen Isabella Pavilion. Notes and News. The
Woman's Store. National American Woman's
Suffrage Association.
	EDITORIAL:—Christmas—Peace and  Good-
will. Editorial Notes. The Sisters in Canada,—
Zina Y. Card. A Resolution. A Prophecy.
	POETRY:—Victors. Judge Not,—A. A. Proctor.
Christmas Bells. Christmas Eve,—Lu Dalton.
Trust and Duty,—Helen M. Whitney. Martha
Washington,—Mary E. Kail. The Last Eve of
Summer,—John G. Whittier. Friendship's Trib-
ute,—Emily H. Woodmansee.


VICTORS.

Not to the brave upon the battlefield,
	Alone, the palms of victory belong;
	Nor only to the great of earth the song
Of praise and paean should the singer yield.
Greater the souls that, single handed, wield
	The battle-ax against the hosts of wrong,
	Unknown, unnoted in life's reckless throng,
And only in God's day to stand revealed.
How many such, in patient, humble guise,
	Beside us walk their brief appointed way,
	Nobly enduring; worthiest to shine
As fixed stars in Fame's eternal skies!
	For these, for this, I reverently lay
On their dear dust this little leaf of mine.
		Overland Monthly.


JUDGE NOT.

BY A. A. PROCTOR.

Judge not; the workings of his brain
	And of his heart thou canst not see;
What looks to thy dim eyes a stain,
	In God's pure sight may only be
A scar, brought from some well-worn field,
Where thou wouldst only faint and yield.

The look, the air, that frets thy sight
	May be a token that below
The soul has closed in deadly fight
	With some infernal fiery foe,
Whose glance would scorch thy smiling grace,
And cast thee shuddering on thy face !

And judge none lost, but wait and see,
	With hopeful pity, not disdain;
The depth of the abyss may be
	The measure of the height of pain
And love and glory that may raise
This soul to God in after days !


CHRISTMAS BELLS.
Dear are the sounds of the Christmas chimes
	In the land of the ivied towers,
And they welcome the dearest of festival times
	In this Western world of ours !
Bright on the holly and mistletoe bough,
	The English firelight falls,
And bright are the wreathed evergreens now
	That gladden our own home walls.
		And hark! the first sweet note that tells
		The welcome of the Christmas bells.

They are ringing to-night through the Norway firs,
	And across the Swedish fells.		
And the Cuban palm-tree dreamily stirs
	To the sound of those Christmas bells !


They ring where the Indian Ganges rolls
	Its flood through the rice-fields wide;
They swell the far hymns of the Laps and Poles,
	To the praise of the Crucified.
		Sweeter than tones of the ocean’s shells,
		Mingle the chimes of the Christmas bells.

The years come not back that have circled away
	With the past of the Eastern land,
When He plucked the corn on the Sabbath day
	And healed the withered hand;
But the bells shall join in a joyous chime
	For the One who walked the sea,
And ring again for the better time
	Of the Christ that is to be;
		Then ring ! for the earth's best promise dwells
		In ye, O joyous prophet bells.


CHRISTMAS EVE,
'Tis sweet Christmas Eve, O my darling,
	The blessed, the glad Christmas eve,
And under the bloom of the starlight,
	I'm waiting and listening for thee.
Oh canst thou not hear the low calling
	My spirit wafts outward to thine?
A tender wave rising and falling
	Entreating thy soul answer mine?

Oh, gladly I think of the manger
	And Him who so lowly was laid,
The sages who greeted the stranger
	And gifts at his tiny feet laid,
The mother so happy and holy,
	And Joseph so gentle and true,
The shepherds who bowed them so lowly,
	And the star lighting midnight so blue.

The beautiful chorus of angels
	Their happiness pouring in song,
Their greeting to earth and to mortals
	Which echo still carries along,
The love which looked down out of heaven
	Enfolding the children of earth,—
To us its best treasure was given,
	And so our Redeemer had birth.

Oh, love is the light of high heaven,
	The soul of the universe fair;
To win us above it was given,
	And will be our glory when there;
Then proudly I own that I love thee
	And long for thy coming tonight;
May all these bright star-eyes above thee
	Remind thee of me with their light.

A year ago, darling, you sought me
	And patiently waited my feet,
A gift in your hand too you brought me,
	Bestowed with a kiss pure and sweet.
Oh dear were the kiss and the token,
	And clear the light in thine eye,
And precious the words which were spoken
	Beneath the deep starlight sky

Thou comest not, yet I’ll not doubt these,
	Thou best of the image of God;
His blessings and peace be about thee,
	His word be thy staff and thy rod.
Though I nevermore should behold thee
	Nor hear the dear sound of thy voice,
His love ever warmly enfold thee
	And thou in His goodness rejoice.

Oh, hark! as the clear angel voices
	Roll sweetly the firmament through,
Dissolve my glad soul in their chorus
	And ope to my wondering view
The present, the past and the future,—
	Like the shepherds from Judea's sod
Enraptured I look up to heaven,
	For love makes me one with God.
						LU DALTON.


LOST AND FOUND.
	     M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	In the soft, mellow, twilight of a bright
December day a lady past middle age, sat in
a luxuriously furnished boudoir. Her attit-
tude and contour, accorded well with the “dim
religious light,” which rested on her alone
while it left the other portions of the room in
the deepest gloom.
	The last rays of the closing day seemed to
concentrate around her as tho’ unwilling the
darkness should conceal that calm placid brow,
and sweetly curved lips, from which niether
sorrow or time had been able to steal the
amiable expression.
	The house in which that boudoir was
situated was one of London’s stateliest mansions.
It stood at the corner of an old square at the
West end, but was not the less aristocratic be-
cause of its age, for every house in that square
belonged to a family who really had ancestors,
and of those ancesters they had reason to be
proud, and none more so, perhaps, than the
lady above alluded too. She had wealth in
abundance, and the entree into the highest
circles, even royalty welcomed her with more
than courtly politeness when she appeared
among them. She was benevolent almost to
a fault, for few ever sought her aid in vain;
yet, she resided in that princely home alone
surrounded only by dependents, but they were
faithful, and watched over her tenderly, for 
they loved her, and in their love they carefully
tended her. It was no secret that in early life
she had suffered from some great sorrow, but
few knew the true cause. At twenty-five, her
hair had become quite white, it was thus sor-
row left its mark. As a girl she was very
beautiful, and her beauty was peccliar; her
skin was of dazzling whiteness, her eyes blue,
hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes, were nearly
black, so dark that until the sun shone upon
them no color could be perceived in them.
She was my senior by several years and as a
child I almost worshipped her. I had been 
absent from England two years, and on my
return I found her as I have described her,
still bearing her maiden name Marrianne
Lester. When I went away it was publicly
know that she was engaged to a Mr. Holds-
worth and the day fixed for the marriage, but
one week previous to the date announced for
the ceremony, a paragraph in the newspaper
announcing the marriage of Edward Holds-
worth, her affianced husband, to a Miss Elise
Blessi. Miss Blessi was from Switzerland, and
Marrianne had met her in Paris, she had in-
vited her to her father’s house, on a visit,
which was to extend till after Marrianna’s
marriage. There Holdsworth had met her, 
and the result was an elopement, and marriage.
	It was the oft told tale, a fickle minded man
and a false friend. After the marriage the
pair had gone to Switzerland, there to remain
until the scandal should be partially forgotten.
Marrianne uttered no complaint, but quietly
left England for a tour in Italy. On reaching
Florence she was taken ill, the strain had
prostrated her, and for a time she was a wreck
mentally and physically, of her former self.
A good constitution, and careful nursing, re-
stored her to her family with her beauty but
little impaired, her amiability more pronounced
and her hair bleached to a perfect white, by
sorrow and suffering. It was thus I met her


on my return home, and heard from her
parents her sad story. When she was about
twenty-eight she was married to a Mr. Whit-
more; he was an officer of high rank in the
British army, and just the kind of a man to
estimate such a woman aright. Her happiness
however, was of short duration, for nine months
after they were married, her husbaud’s regi-
ment was ordered to the East Indies, that
country was then in a very unsettled state and
ladies were advised by the government not to
accompany their husbands, so Marrianne
parted with her husband and they met no more
on earth. Three months after Mr. Whitmore’s
departure a boy was born to them, the advent
of her son, relieved the monotony of her life,
and gave a new zest to her existence. When
her child was a little more than one year old,
she received the announcement of her hus-
band’s death, through cholera. She was now
a wealthy widow, not yet thirty-one years of
age, with only her boy to claim her attention
and care. After a time she had numerous
offers of marriage, but refused them all, for as
she said, I have been twice widowed, that
surely is enough in one lifetime.
	As the boy grew toward manhood he gave
every promise of being a worthy successor to
his noble father after whom he had been
named, Edgar. He passed through his school
days with credit, and to the university with
every prospect of a brilliant career. He had
been carefully trained by his mother in the
path of duty and rectitude, and she thought
she need have no fear for his future. Alas,
how often our brightest hopes are clouded
over when we least expect it. Edgar got
among a bad set, at Oxford, was led on from
one excess to another became a drunkard, and
gambler,and finally in a drunken brawl,stabbed
a fellow student, as he supposed fatally. To
save himself from arrest, he escaped to Liver-
pool, from there he sent to his mother for
money and after receiving it he disappeared;
from that time he had never been heard of. Is
there any wonder that in her loneliness,
Marrianne Whitmore was sad? Of Edward
Holdsworth she knew nothing,he had gone out
of her life and no one spoke of him in her pres-
ence.
	This is a brief sketch of her life,prior to the
December evening when we first introduced
her to our readers. It was four days before
the one which would usher in the New Year;
she had invited a neice, who had just returned
from school in Paris to make her a long visit
so that she might introduce her into society,
or as it is termed, bring her out, and a more
accomplished and graceful chaperon she could
not have had. As she sat in the twilight she
was listening for the arrival of the carriage;
propared to go down at the first sound of the
house bell to receive, and welcome her visitor.
The carriage arrived while the servant was
lighting the lamps, she quickly descended to
the hall, and to her surprise saw two young
ladies leave the carriage, one sprang lightly up
the marble steps, and into the extended arms
of her aunt; the other came slowly and hesi-
tatingly and in the doorway stopped, waiting
for an invitation to enter.
	“Oh, aunt Marrianne,” said the neice, how
kind it was of you to send for me, it was
dreadfully dull in the country except on
Christmas day; how I shall enjoy being in
London, but, oh dear I had forgotten, I have
a surprise for you. I have brought a dear
friend with me, I knew it would be all right
with you. She had no home to go to for the
holidays, she has been like a sister to me, and
I knew you would love her for that, and after-
wards for herself when you know her.”
	“You mad cap,” said her aunt, “why did
you not bring her in, and not leave her stand-
ing outside, come here, my dear,” and she

[Column 2]
drew the stranger to her, and gave her a wel-
coming kiss.
	“Dear madam,” said the girl, “this is indeed
kind, I never thought to receive such  a wel-
come.” “I told you how it would be with aunt
Marrianne,” said Mathilde, “why aunty mama
tried all she could to keep her, to supply my
place she said, just think of it, when I had
such a dear generous aunt in London; but you
will take cold aunty and I am hungry, let us
go to my room and change our dresses and we
will be down so quickly that you will wonder
how we accomplished such a metamorphis in
so short a time.” The maid, who was waiting
led the way up the stairs and the two girls
want to the room prepared for the niece until
one could be made ready for the unexpected
guest.
	Directly after the girls descended to the draw-
ing room dinner was announced, and as the
three were leaving to go to the dining room,
Mrs. Whitmore smilingly said “Mathilde, has
your friend a name, I should like to know it if
she has?” How stupid of me aunty, why of
course she has, and a very sweet one too, it is
Florence Holdsworth, quite English, is it not
although her parents were Swiss, but, what is
the matter,you are ill, aunty,"for at the mention
of the girl’s name, Mrs. Whitmore had turned
deathly pale, and only by the exercise of her
strong will, had kept herself from fainting.
	She recovered herself quickly, saying, “no,
my dear, I felt a sudden chill,I am better now,
lut us go to dinner.”
	During the meal nothing more was said of
Florence,but in the evening in the drawing room
Mrs. Whitmore questioned the girl, until she
had heard all that she knew of her parentage.
“Her parents,” she said, had lived in Paris,
her mother died when she was two days old,
her father gave her into the care of a nurse,
so she had been told; when she was three years
old the nurse married a soldier, and placed
her in a home for orphans telling the good
sisters who managed it, that her father would
claim her and pay them for their trouble.
	He came once to see her, and finding his
child would be well taken care of, he left a
sum of money, sufficient to provide for all her
wants, until he should return, which he would
in about five years, she would then be old
enough to go to school, and he would relieve
the sisters of their charge. He was going with
an exploring party to south Africa, they would
visit the, then much talked of, diamond fields
and on his return would make a home for him-
self and little daughter. He had never re-
turned to claim her, and at the age of fourteen
the committee of the orphanage had placed
her in the school where Mathilde found her.
She had been kindly treated but had nowhere
to go for a holiday, and had seen but little of
the world outside the school, until Mathilde
brought her to England, and she must return
there when her visit terminated. “Is it not
dreadful, aunty to have no holidays,” said
Mathilde, “and it would have been no holiday
in the country, and I not there, I do not like
to oppose mama, it is wrong to do so, but I
could not help it this time, and you are glad I
brought her, are you not, aunt Marrianne.
	“Very glad indeed my dear, and she shall
have a long holiday, I will write to the school,
and arrange for her stay. Will this arrange-
ment suit you Florence?”
	“Indeed it will, dear madam, I seem to have
had a glimpse of Paradise and only fear I shall
find it but a glorious dream, and that I shall
awake to find myself in the school room, an
orphan, and unknown.
	By the day following Mrs. Whitmore had
learned all Florence could tell of her history
and had come to the conclusion she was the
daughter of her former lover; but, the sin of
the father must not be visited upon the child

[Column 3]
and she would keep her until she could find
her relatives.
	No doubt thought Mrs. Whitmore, Holds-
worth is dead, but his parents may be alive,
or his sister, he was an only son, and at the
death of his parents would inherit consider-
able property He had an independency of
his own left him by an uncle so may be traced
through his lawyers or bankers; thus she rea-
soned. Mrs. Whitmore was childless now, and
this girl would, in a measure, fill the void in
her heart. In the privacy of her chamber
she prayed for strength and guidance to carry
out the project she had formed. She had
invited a large party to a dinner and ball on
New Year’s day, at which her neice was to make
her debut, she would now have two to chape-
rone, and Florence must be provided with a
costume for the occasion, Mathilde was well
suppliod in that particular. During lunch
Mrs. Whitmore invited the girls to go with
her on a shopping expedition,saying as Florence
was not likely to have any more holidays, this
one must be made as pleasant as possible.
“Aunt Mathilde, it is too sad to think of no
more holidays,” and she kissed her friend,
whose eyes had filled with tears. “She will
not need any, for she will not return to the
school, that is, if she will be content to remain
with me, mine is a lonely life, but I will en-
deavor to enlighten hers, if she will accept my
offer.”
	“Accept, dear madam, cried Florence, you
cannot tell how thankfully, and by God’s help
you shall never have cause to regret your kind-
ness.”
	Mrs. Whitmore personally selected the
necessary dress for her protege. She was a
little anxious for the eventful evening,Florence
had not been in society,she might be awkword
and shy, but when the two girls appeared, her
anxiety gave way to surprise, at the perfect
ease, and sang froid of Florence and now that
she was elegantly, and becomingly dressed she
saw how beautiful she was, and at the first
opportunity whispered to her, saying, “I am
more than pleased with your appearance and
manner Florence.”
	“Dear madam how can I ever sufficiently
repay all your generosity and kindness,” re-
plied Florence. “By calling me Aunt Marri-
anne for the future, and being to me all a
niece should be, Mathilde will not be with me
long, and I want a companion,” said the elder
lady.
	The party was a very brilliant one, and the
advent of the two girls into society a success.
	Mrs. Whitmore instructed her lawyer to
ascertain if the parents of Holdsworth were
still living, and if anything was known of his
whereabouts; not that she wanted to part with
Florence, but to know if he was alive and had
deserted his daughter, an act she believed him
capable of, after his conduct towards herself.
	Mrs. Whitmore understood now, why her
brother’s wife endeavored to prevent Mathilde
bringing Florence with her. She had no idea
who the girl was, but thought the name she
bore would call up unpleasant memories, and
did not wish to add one drop to the cup al-
ready filled to overflowing with sorrow, of her
amiable relative The lawyer reported that
the parents of Holdsworth were dead, and his
sister had heard nothing from him for years,she
was holding his portion of the property until
his return, or till the time had expired when
the law would consider him dead. Of this
Florence was not informed; and when in the
Spring Mrs. Whitmore proposed a trip to
Switzerland,the girls were delighted, especially
Florence. She knew it was the home of her
mother, and perhaps she might find her rela-
tives. “Do you know what was your mother’s
maiden name?’ enquired Mrs. Whitmore.
Florence said she had never heard it, and
smiled at her own thoughtlessness, seeing how


[column 1] 
futile was the hope of ever finding her mother's
family; yet she could perhaps find the Holds-
worths, for she did not know but they were 
Swiss also. How little she thought that her
mother was once the schoolmate and trusted
friend of the lady who had adopted her, and
who was taking this journey to find her rela-
tives, and if possible ascertain if there were 
any other children of Holdsworth, especially
if there was a son, if there was, he was entitled
to the property of his father, and she would
put him in the way to claim it. The Blessi's
she knew had lived near the Lake of Zurich,
and to the City of Zurich she first went. With
little trouble she learned that, the grand-
parents of Florence were dead, but a brother of
Mrs. Holdsworth occupied the old home. To 
him she went and learned that his sister had
never been strong after her marriage, she had
four children, all of whom died in their infancy
after the last one died, Holdsworth took his
wife to Paris, for the purpose of consulting a
celebrated physician. She died there, and he
had heard nothing of her husband since, and
he thought there could be no child alive. Mrs.
Whitmore kept all this from Florence, Blessi
was a farmer, and not too well off, and she
destined Florence for a higher position.
	They spent the Summer among the Swiss
Alps, and after visiting Lake Lucerne returned
to London.
	During her absence Mrs. Whitmore's lawyers
had not been idle, but all they could learn
was that, Holdsworth had closed his account
with his bankers, and left the country nearly
twenty years before.
	They urged upon Mrs. Whitmore the 
necessity of Florence claiming her father's
property, but she hesitated, perhaps Holds-
worth may return, at least she would wait un-
til Florence was twenty-one, she was now nine-
teen, and did not need it. Mathilde was two
years older, she was going to marry a gentle-
man whose property adjoined her father's and
reside most of the time in the country. Mrs.
Whitmore and Florence would then be left
alone, in that grand old home, and if the elder
lady was not happy she was resigned, while the
younger one was radiantly happy. As the
months rolled by Florence received many
offers of marriage, but refused them all, either 
her heart was untouched, or she would not
leave the desolate woman whom she so dearly 
loved.
	Abut one week prior to the twenty-first an-
niversary of Florence's birthday the two ladies
were riding in Hyde Park; a gentleman on 
horseback passed them, as he did so Mrs.
Whitmore raised her eyes to his face, their
eyes met and something in him reminded her
of the past, of some one she had known, but 
where, or when, she could not recall to memory.
They were preparing to celebrate Florence's 
birthday with more than usual festivities, and 
the incident was forgotten.
	Mrs. Whitmore had presented Florence with
a splendid set of pearls, as a birthday gift, 
and she herself had selected the dress she
would wear with them, at the ball.
	When Florence appeared in the drawing
room she was the cynosure of all eyes, she had
developed into a splendid woman, with the
fair skin and blue eyes of her Swiss mother,
and the bright auburn tresses of her father
which Mrs. Whitmore so well remembered. Just
before dinner a note was brought to Mrs.
Whitmore, it contained only these words,
"Edward Holdsworth is in London" it came 
from her lawyer, and he left word with the
servant that he would call the next day. The
news gave her a shock, and for a few moments
she felt a sensation, almost like despari. Was
the girl she had learned to love so well to be
taken from her, and must she again be left 
alone with her sorrow? A little reflection how-
[column 2]
ever, convinced her that Florence would not 
desert her even for her father.
	She now knew who the man was she had
seen in the park, and she must nerve herself
to meet him, and talk to  him. On the morrow
her lawyer told her that Holdsworth had
heard of their inquiries respecting him, and 
called to know what they wanted him for.
	He was told that they must see their client
before informing him, and they would write
him in a few days, if he would leave his 
address, he seemed much annoyed at their 
reticence, and now what was to be done.
	"I will see him myself," said Mrs. Whit-
more, "Florence, I have not told anything, not
even of the efforts you have made so find her 
father, and she must be kept in ignorance a
little longer, ask him to call upon me as soon
as possible, but be careful not to give a hint of
who I am, he may not recognize me, at which 
I shall feel pleased, if he does we can not help
it, at any rate I must see him."
	At five o'clock of the next day a card was
handed to Marrianne, bearing the name of
Edward Holdsworth, and a request for an in-
terview accompanied it. She was dressed
ready to accompany Florence to an evening
party, she knew the young lady would be some
time before she was ready and hoped the inter-
view would terminate before she came down,
and she desired the servant to show him into 
the drawing room. As he entered she rose to
receive him saying, "you wished to see me Mr. 
Holdsworth."
	Edward had not recognized her features,
but when she spoke, he knew her voice, and
exclaimed, "Marrianne, Mrs. Whitmore, why
have you sought me. I have wronged you 
deeply, and have suffered for it, be merciful
and spare me now?" "It is to avenge that
wrong that I tried to find you and my Nemesis
will heap coals of fire upon your head;" tell
true," she continued, "have you any children?"
"I fear not," he answered, "I left a little girl
in Paris, when I left Europe, but I can not
trace her, the lady who kept the school where
she was educated is dead, and her successors
know nothing of my little Florence, she would
now be twenty-one, and what would I not give 
to give to find her?" "How long is it since
you deserted her?"
	"I did not mean to desert her, I left money
to support her for five years, intending to re-
turn by that time, circumstances I could not
control prevented me, I wrote to the institution
where I left her and they replied, stating that
she was well and still with them, still hoping 
to return I neglected to write. One year ago
I arrived in Paris, and went to enquire for my
daughter. The books were produced and the
record showed that she had been sent to a cer-
tain school at the age of fourteen and as I
told you at first I can not find her." "Do
you deserve to find her?" was the next question.
"Mrs. Whitmore you are severe, but from you
I can bear much, tell me what you have to 
say, and I will not trouble you longer."
	At that moment Florence entered the
room and was going to ask her aunt if her
dress was satisfactory but seeing a stranger she
stopped and commenced an apology. "Come
here, my darling," said Mrs. Whitmore "I
wish to introduce you to this gentleman, my
adopted neice Mr. Holdsworth."
	"Florence this is your father!"
	Father and daughter looked at each other a
moment in silence, then the father held out
his arms, and was about to embrace her, but
she drew back to the side of her aunt, saying, 
"You must be misinformed, my dear aunt, it
cannot be true, this man is not my father, or
he would have found me before this, and cared 
for me, you are the only being on this earth
for whom I have a filial attachment, do not 
send me from you, to a stranger and she burst
into tears." "I will never do so against your
[column 3]
wish Florence," then to Holdsworth, "This is
how I have avenged the wrong you did me,
your daughter came to my house a friendless
orphan. When I heard her name and
history I knew who she was, you see what she
is. I took her to Switzerland found her uncle,
he did not know of her existence, I did not
enlighten him, for I had determined to keep
her with me, and she does not know what her
mother's name was, nor that she was once my
friend and you my affianced husband. she has
heard it now, let her choose between us, she is
of full age and you cannot claim her." "And
if he did it would be useless," said Florence.
"You I will not leave until you force me to 
do so." "You hear her decision Edward
Holdsworth, I have my revenge, now go, and
be happy if you can."
	"Surely you will permit me to see her alone
and reason with her; you do not know what
it is to be deprived of wife and children, or you
would have compassion on me." "Do I not 
listen, I was the beloved wife of a noble 
husband, I had a son, and when he was but a 
child, his father died, my son grew to man-
hood, and bade fair to make as good a man as
his father, like me, he was betrayed by a false
friend, he left England, and I do not know
where or what he is, or if he is alive or dead.
I did not desert him and would have given
my life to have saved his, and I would sacri-
fice all I posess to day if it would give me
back my son." "Mrs. Whitmore what is your
sons name?" asked Holdsworth excitedly.
"Edgar" she replied. "Then I believe I can 
tell you something of him, I met a Mr. Edgar
Whitmore in Cape Town South Africa, he
told me a little of his past, the reason why he
left England, that he dare not return, some
friend keeps him informed of your movements,
he knew of your adoption of Florence, and it
pleased him, for he thought it would comfort
you. He is wealthy for he was fortunate at the
diamond fields, and would be only too glad to
return if it was safe for him to do so, he knew 
his arrest would kill you, and prefered that
yov should mourn him as dead, it was better
so than disgrace he thought. How little I 
thought that the mother he loved so tenderly
was the woman I had wronged, and the girl
she had adopted my own child. I can give
you the address of his bankers at Cape Town,
and through them you can communicate with
him." "He need never have left England,"
said Mrs. Whitmore "had he written to my
lawyers they would have informed him that the
man he stabbed did not die, and he admitted
to the authorities that he had led Edgar into
excesses which in his sober moments he 
abhorred. He had cheated him at cards, had 
borrowed money from him, and when Edgar
would lend him no more he taunted him, until
the boy was driven to madness, and the sequel
you know."
	Mr. Holdsworth gave her the address. The 
next day her lawyers wrote to the bank en-
closing a letter from Mrs. Whitmore to her 
son.
	In less than a year he reached home, and 
before another had passed he was the husband
of Florence, who admitted after she was
married, that she had been in love with him
from the time she first saw his portrait, and that
was why she had refused all offers of marriage,
soe had always had a presentment that some
day she would meet the original.
	Edgar's friend had given him a discription
os Florance as he had seen her in public, so
that when he received his mother's letter he 
resolved if he could win her affection his
mother should have a daughter she loved,
and could call her own. Mrs. Whitmore re-
ceived Holdsworth as a friend, he had been the
means of her finding her son the past could
not be recalled, and it was best to bury it in 
oblivion, and appreciate present happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


100				WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a. m.
to 5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]﻿
CHRISTMAS—PEACE AND GOOD-WILL.
	Christmas time always brings up old memories
and associations, recalls home and childhood and
those with whom we have mingled in former days.
The tenderest feelings and emotions are
awakened and benevolence, peace and good-will
towards all mankind takes possession of us for
the time being at least; and the higher and better
attributes and qualities of the soul are brought
out in enlarged charity and gentler kindness;
those whom Providence has smiled upon munifi-
cently make grateful acknowledgements of divine
favor by bestowing upon others, their friends and
neighbors, gifts; and temporal blessings upon the
poor and unfortunate. But after all how much of
the charity St. Paul speaks of in the New Testa-
ment do we exercise; the charity that surpasses
all else, that suffereth long and is kind, that is
greater than bestowing all one’s goods to feed
the poor, that must indeed be pure love of one’s
fellow men, devoid of envy, jealousy,or a hope of
reward; the love that our Savior manifested when
He gave Himself a ransom for all mankind, to
redeem the world, not for His own glory but un-
selfishly to do the will of His Father.
	Is there any other day in all the year that calls
to mind such generous impulses, and gives to the
individual believer in the babe of Bethlehem,such
longings to be like unto Him who when He was
reviled, reviled not again, and who bore with
meekness and patience all crosses and sorrows
even suffering an ignominious death with those
sublime words upon his dying lips, that have
reached through the ages down, to our day.
Father forgive them for they know not what they
do?”
While we profess to be His followers shall we not
in some degree attempt to reach this high
standard of greatness and excellence by some act
of forgiveness, or sublime charity more than giv-
ing good gifts to those from whom we receive in
return. Is not this what we try to do to satisfy
our own consciences? Do we go into the high-
ways and byways and seek out the poor and
the suffering, and minister unto them as He did
whose example we should imitate in as much as
the human can emulate the infinite. Humility in
its perfection characterized the life of Christ, and
yet those who have taken upon themselves
His name are full of pride and arrogance despis-
ing those who are not in possession of wealth or
culture, and passing them by on the other side
as the Levite did the poor man who fell among
thieves, but we should be at any rate once in a
year at Christmas time like the good Samaritan;
who bound up the wounds and ministered to the
comfort of the poor man.
	New resolves concerning our acts ot kindness
to others, or even of generosity is not all; it is
not enough that we give our goods to feed the
poor, or even offer up what we consider a great

[Column 2]
sacrifice, nor that we forgive those who have
traspassed against us, if we would be accepted of
our Father in heaven, but cultivate that love to-
wards our fellow men that our Savior had, and
live at all times according to the light and
knowledge we have received, for it was said by
one of old “Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
	We should be joyful at Christmas time for the
sake of the children, if not our own, and even if
burdens oppress us or griefs have overtaken us
lay them aside for the time being and contribute
in some measure to the enjoyment of others. It
is pleasant to see the great gatherings of large
families, and it is an especial delight to watch
the children’s exuberance and gaiety on the ad-
vent of Santa Claus, and the good dinners that
are always an adjunct of the occasion.
	Children enjoy giving and it is a happy manner
of teaching the principle of charity to the little
ones, to allow them to give from their own portion
of toys or luxuries, to those who have less of the
good things of this life.
	Children’s impressions are deep-seated and
strong and often follow them through life, and
perhaps there is not a day that fastens itself
more closely upon the heart and remembrance,
and to which the child when grown to manhood
turns with greater affection than Christmas day
at the old home, whether he goes out into the
world alone, or travels the raging main, on sea
or land wherever he may be, when the blessed
Christmas time comes he invariably recalls the
incidents of home life.
	It is in every sense of the word a red letter
day to all who have ever known the blessing of
a real home and its benign and sanctifying in-
fluence. It throws a halo around the future life
of those who in childhood have partaken of its
joys and pleasures, and participated in the festivi-
ties of these holiday occasions. The middle-aged
and aged all, all classes, all races one might say
share in the general enjoyment and are anxious
to promote the happiness of family and friends
on this day of days. The bells are expressive
of the joy and contentment that floats over the
land and Christmas bells, ring on through hte
coming ages of time the peace and good-will,
that nerve the hosts of men and women to braver
and nobler deeds in the living of their own lives
and serving of their fellowmen.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have on hand Relief Society reports
from several of the Stakes of Zion, but have
postponed publishing them until after the holi-
days to make room for more interesting matter.
"Lost and Found" a story by Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh will be very much better reading and
more suitable for the holiday time than R. S.
Reports or local matters. Mrs. Greenhalgh is a
very versatile,and entertaining, as well as a gifted
writer.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor, is just
over the way and every time we look out,it greets
us pleasantly its windows are full of novelties in
the way of toys and books for the children's
Christmas and Santa Claus must have brought
many a heavy load with his reindeers if he sup-
plied the store with these articles. Dolls and
toys in great variety and dolls housekeeping sets,
bedsteads, cradles, baby carriages for dolls and
tables, cupboards, and sideboards, dishes, and
furnishings complete. Cards and and booklets in
new and pretty designs and cheap too, and books
both at wholesale and retail as well as stationery.
The Juvenile Office makes a business of supply-
ing Sunday School Superintendents with books
etc. There is scarcely anything in this line of
goods that this house does not carry. They order
books from the best Eastern dealers, as well as
publish home literature. It is a good place to
[Column 2]
make selections from not only for Christmas pres-
ents, but books for winter evening's at home or
for libraries public or private.

	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery on Main St.
makes a specialty of pictures, and he displays ex-
cellent taste in his selections and in the art of
photography he excels particularly in scenery.
He keeps an immense stock of this class of
goods and his windows give one a pretty correct
idea of what can be found inside, and has a
variety from which to choose of every style.
He also advertises games of all kinds and prices,
and these quiet pastimes for chi[-]dren and others
as well who are older, serve to while away a
tedious hour when one is tired of work and needs
recreation as well as rest. This establishment
keeps a large and complete line of art supplies
for painting on china, glass, cardboard, canvas,
bolting cloth, satin, velvet, plush etc. In fact the
proprietor has done a great deal in this way to
encourage art and artists. Books in great variety
are also found in Savage's store and numerous
toys and novelties in this line for the holidays.

	Duncan Mc'Allister and Co. have spared no
pains in arranging their Christmas goods and they
have succeeded admirably. They have what might
be termed Christmas itself in the show windows;
there is the old fashioned fireplace with a fire
burning at night—looks like pine knots though,
instead of yule logs, but the blaze is as blue as
that of a Christmas plum pudding, everything is
like a Christmas eve, the little stockings and the
big ones are hung up and Santa Claus himself is
looking in at the window, as if he were waiting
his opportunity to slip in unnoticed. But
McAllister’s windows are not the only attraction
step inside and see what an immense variety of
toys and fancy goods he has,books and magazines
etc., and up stairs the finest goods are arranged
in the most artistic manner possible for the size of
the apartment, here are the most exquisite ban-
ners and hand painted placques and china illus-
trated books booklets and calendars with a
variety of other things too numerous to mention
but go and see.

	The Children's book by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron mentioned in our last issue has been
carefully reviewed and we feel perfectly justified
in recommending it to the people as just what is
needed for the little folks in Zion. It has been
written with a desire to instruct and edify the
reader, and to entertain at the same time. The
author is a mother herself and knows what
pleases the children and has prepared this work
to meet the demand of the rising generation for
a work suited to the times and to their situation
as the children of the Saints, with a thirst for
knowledge that will benefit them as well as to be
interesting to the youthful mind. The book is
illustrated and contains both prose and poetry
suited to the intelligence and capacity of children.
It is in every sense of the word what its title indi-
cates, "The Children's Book," price $1,50 for sale
here and at the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile
and Manufacturing Institution.
	We have received an elegant Calendar from
"The Woman's Literary Club, Dunkirk N. Y."
printed in Buffalo. It is published on fine heavy
paper with handsome rough cover,on the outside
of which the picture of Sappho is stamped
and a pretty monogram on the back W. L. C. It
contains some tinted photogravures, that are
quite in keeping with the style of the book, and
sentiments, verses and maxims from the most
celebrated women poets and writers. On the fly
leaf is the quotation from Sappho: "Come now
divine shell, become vocal for me," and following
that is the picture of Sappho in her flowing ap-
parel with a veil thrown gracefully over her head,
the sea shell in her hand, as if it were a talisman
or could breathe forth an inspiration. Among


the pictures is one of the house of Maria
Mitchell the astronomer, from the roof of which
she discovered the comet that first brought her
fame. One of the pictures is the parlor in H. H.'s
home. The home of Madame DeStael at Coppet
is another. Each paragraph contains a moral or
maxim that is worth committing to memory. One
or two may give an idea of the value of these
short sentences. People think they know them-
selves because they are untried. Frederika
Bremer. Work; work, this is my unfailing cure
for all troubles. Lydia Maria Child. Duty only
frowns when you flee from it; follow it, and it
smiles upon you. Carmen Sylva. Wars are or-
ganized mobs. Clara Barton. Show me the
mothers of a country and I will tell you of its sons,
Mary Seymour Howell. The ideal of woman
cannot be lowered without that of manhood
suffering also. Ednah D. Cheney. I do not see
how we are to govern others unless we first learn
to govern ourselves. St. Catharine of Siena.
Gossip pretending to have the eyes of an Argus,
has all the blindness of a bat. Ouida. The
Calendar contains 24 pages of reading matter, all
rich with gems of thought.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SISTERS IN CANADA.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our life here seems uneventful compared to
yours in "Dear Utah," months have passed since
our return, and yet much has happened that was
important to us. I am perhaps vain when I fancy
it may be of interest to many dear friends in the
"land of my birth," to relate some of them.
	My dear mother's presence here was the signal
for many pleasant gatherings, for spirited and
spiritual feasts, when the gifts were ours and she
seemed the humble and chosen one to be like a
ministering angel to us, giving new courage and
patience, by her cheerful precepts and example, but
like most of our earthly joys, she has left us, only
I trust for a season. Perhaps she has told you
of our Fair, held jointly by the R. S., Y. L. M. I.
A., and the Primary Association. Like all such
affairs it was a big success, we all opened our
eyes to see how many useful, pretty and necessary
articles were in our possession, how wonderfully
smart our little ones are, and what great big de-
licious, vegetables we have in abundence, a turnip
that weighed 23lbs. Eleven potatoes 27lbs.
Golden butter, white bread, pies, cakes and tarts
all made by the deft little fingers of our dear child
ren. Then the agreeable and genuine surprise
given by the Pres. and members of the Relief
Society to their beloved President, Sister Zina
"Our mother" as they call her.
	We had a charming visit from Prof. Saunders,
Gov. Agent for the Experimental Farms, of which
there are five. He came to see what progress we
were making as agriculturists, expressed himself
as surprised and pleased with our progress, and
predicted a bright and prosperous future for us.
	Mr. Ross, Superentendent and builder of the
great Canadian Pacific R. R. gave us a call, he
came to look at the country with a view to build_
ing a new road from Edmonton some 500 miles
north, down through this section of country
across the line. The new road will be the high-
way for coal, coal oil, minerals, timber and the
products of the ranchers and farmers of this great
land.
	The opening of the Canadian and Great Falls
Railroad is another important feature here,giving
us direct communication by rail within 50 miles,
and gives a new impetus to business generally.
	Now my dear friends if you want to come and
see us, remember it is only 800 miles, will cost
you about the same as a trip to San Francisco,
or less, and you can get here inside of four days.
We do not live in an Eden, nor without hard
work. but we have plenty to eat, plenty to wear,

[column 2]
can guarantee to keep you cool in Summer and
warm in winter.
	John T. Caine is elected, some may say, what's
that to you? Just let me whisper in your ear, I
was born in Utah,and every thing that effects her
finds an echo in my heart, do you think any Utah
boy or girl could read the rousing speeches from
our own faithful sons, fathers and husbands with-
out saying "God bless and help them forever?"
	Often my soul is singing:

"O dear Utah I sigh for thee in vain,
Fain would I die to free thee from the despot's iron chain;
Once thou coulds't boast of freedom in thy mountains
	vales and glens,
O! give me back those good old days, and my dear old
	home again!"

	What Jerusalem is to the Jew,—so is Utah to
the hearts of her mountain boys and girls, yet I
would not, could not live there now. Why? be-
cause the holy priesthood has said my place was
here. So my wings are folded, content in my
nest, I sing, no I mean chirp to my little brood,
try to be content with all the changes that find
me, some unprepared and some otherwise,
amongst the former was the "Manifesto," it took
my breath away, but it gradually narrowed down
from what at first seemed a strange pill to the very
draught that was needed in our present state, re-
ligiously and politically. It has caused some
comment here from various stand points, but we
feel our true position is known and appreciated
now as it could not be before the issuing of the
Manifesto, and the saints here as a whole all feel
our leaders are carrying on Christ's work to victory
and are one with the saints in the land of Zion.
	Hum! I fear you will think me tedious so will
just add, the health of the saints is excellent,
weather delightful. Pres. Card's brief visit filled
all with new courage. Our school will begin next
week with Sterling Williams as teacher. All our
Societies are in excellent running order.
	Love to all the dear ones, and hope if any feel
that they are neglected they will know they live
with truer and more enduring ties in the heart of
their absent sister and friend,
						ZINA Y. CARD.
	Cardston, Alberta Canada, Nov. 20, 1890.


A RESOLUTION.

	At the Annual Convention of the National
Woman's Christian Temperance Union held in
Atlanta, Ga., in November, the resolution follow-
ing was offered by the newly elected Superin-
tendent of the Department of Mercy, Mrs. Mary
F. Lovell of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and adopted:
	Whereas we believe vivisection to be cruel. un-
necessary, and demoralizing, tending to a de-
terioration of the human soul utterly out of pro-
portion to any known benefit to the human body
gained thereby, the practice of it thus reversing
the teachings of Christianity,
	Resolved, That we will do all in our power to
develop sentiment against it, and because we do
not believe in half measures, nor in licensing any
evil, we will do this with a view to securing legis-
lation for its total prohibition.


A PROPHECY.

	Mrs. Harriet M. Van Hoesen lives in what is
left of the old Gibbs mansion in township
Lafayette, ten miles south of Syracuse. It was
once palatial, as country residences go, but is
now occupied by owls and bats and Mrs. Van
Hoesen. She is a disciple of the lost art of
astrology, snd a few years ago laid the founda-
tion for a proposed academy for its study, which,
on account of the lack of funds was never was
never completed. Mrs. Van Hoesen has read the
world’s horoscope, and deduces that from Adam


to the flood was 1800 years; that it was 1800
years from the flood to the destruction of Sodom
and Gomorrah; 1800 years from that time to the
last ten years of the first century, A. D., when
three cities were destroyed, and that the next
period now coming to a close, will witness the
destruction of wicked. In February, 1891, the
Mormons will rise up against the Gentiles, and a
plague will cut of the wicked, except such as may
flee to the house of refuge, which is building for
those who will flee to the hills in the dreadful
times. She says that nearly all ministers and
leaders of labor organizations are Mormons
secretly. She predicts that there will be only
one more presidential election, and that Harrison
will be re-elected. The millennium now about to
begin will be followed by 800 years, during which
the devil will have his innings.
	Syracuse, N. Y., Dec. 14, 1890.


TRUST AND DUTY.
Oh wrestling heart when sick and weary,
	Bowed beneath life's weight of woe;
In meekness thou hast learned thy duty,
	And chose to walk the narrow way.

But yet how prone to shrink from duty.
	E’en when the voice of Father calls,
In His love and tender mercy,
	To prove and purify thy soul.

He chooses those who're true and willing, 
	To keep the strait aud narrow way,
Where gentle dews from heaven are falling,
	Lighting sorrow's cloudiest day.

The back He fits to bear its burden
	The wounds He heals, the heart makes glad,
Unfathomed love is ever shedding,
	Peace on those who trust in God.

Its been decreed that all that’s earthly,
	Must meet with change and pass away;
Through toil and pain that we’re made holy,
	To gain a crown of endless day.

All such are safe whate'er betide them,
	Sheltered in the Savior’s flock,
'Neath that fount whence peace is flowing
	Cleaving close the Smitten Rock.
					HELEN M. WHITNEY.


MARTHA WASHINGTON.

Fair type of womanhood, we see you proudly stand
Back through the century, first lady of the land;
With love and reverence in your tender eyes;
Each thought a joy, each word a glad surprise.
Upon the threshold of the brave and free,—
Priestess and prophetess of the yet to be.

E'en from the hour when by our chieftain’s side
You stood a queen,—because an honored bride—
You guarded destiny with royal sceptre then,
While heaven was moulding future deeds of men.
Peerless and grand, untiring and true,
Each morning brought its task of work to do.
And when the evening came, at set of sun,
Angels recorded work your hands had done.

You brought to Washington, the power of wealth,—
But richer far the gift, when giving him yoursel';
For 'mid the tumult of war’s trying hour,
You gave the baptism of a subtle power
That cleared the darkness from the skies above,
You gave him courage, while you gave him love.

While through the ages we shall sing the name
Of him, who led our country on to fame;
Woman shall claim the noble right divine,
To drape fresh garlands ‘round our hero’s shrine;
Flowers born of tears, and purity and truth,
Crowned with endowment of perpetual youth.
Yet while we march the onward. upward way,
Let no base coward ever dare to say
That Washington in victory ever stood alone,—
The wife he loved, was power behind the throne !
						MRS. MARY E. KAIL.
Washington, D. C., May 7th 1889.
										Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE LAST EVE OF SUMMER.

Summer's last sun, nigh unto setting, shines
Through yon columnar pines,
And, on the deepening shadows of the lawn,
Its golden lines are drawn.

Dreaming of long-gone summer days like this.
Feeling the wind's soft kiss,
Grateful and glad that the failing ear and sight
Have still their old delight.

I sit alone and watch the warm sweet day
Lapse tenderly away;
And, wistful, with a feeling of forecast,
I ask, "Is this the last?"

"Will never more for me the seasons run
Their round, and will the sun
Of ardent summers yet to come foreget
For me to rise and set?

Thou should be here or I should be with thee
Wherever thou mayst be. 
Lips mute, hands clasped, in silences of speech
Each answering unto each.

At this still hour which hints of mystery far
Beyond the evening star
No words outworn suffice from lip or scroll;
The soul would fain with soul

Wait, while these few swift-passing days fulfill
The wise, disposing Will,
And, in the evening as at morning, trust
The All-Merciful and Just.

The solemn joy that soul-communion feel
Immortal life reveals;
And human love, its prophecy and sign,
Interprets love divine.

Come then, in thought, if that alone may be,
O friend ! and bring with thee
Thy calm assurance of transcendent spheres,
And the eternal years.
	JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER. in the N.Y.
		Independent.
Oak Knoll, 1890.


FRIENDSHIP’S TRIBUTE.

TO THE MEMORY OF BROTHER MILLEN ATWOOD, LATE
	VETERAN BISHOP OF THE THIRTEENTH WARD,
				SALT LAKE CITY.

	An honest man as ever drew life's breath—
		A noble, steadfast, unassuming soul—
	Has won the victory o'er pain and death.
		And reached triumphantly the final goal.

	'Tis good to meet amid the human throng
		A man or woman, guileless, brave and true;
	A champion for the right, a for to wrong—
		Fearless of conflict, if impelled thereto.

	The sacred principles of truth and right
		Govern'd our friend, and gladdened him withal;
	And thus his heart was full of peace and light.
		When dangers hovered o'er him like a pall.

	I see him yet, enduring direst woe,
		Wasted by hunger, chilled by piercing blasts,
	Cheering his comrades,all his soul aglow,
	With faith and courage, hopeful to the last.

	No trifle 'tis to pour the soothing balm
		Of resignation into hungry men;
	To rouse poor mortals from the fatal calm,
		Born of despair, is no small task, I ken.

	Frail, famished women, famished children too,
		Met the “grim monster" even face to face;
	Yet, God be praised who sent us friends so true,
		And snatched us, verily, from Death’s embrace.

	How swiftly flows the tide of memory back,
		Like friends they seemed who shared those dreadful
			days;
	Justice forbids such worthy souls should lack
		A poet's tribute, or the meed of praise.

	Brave Brother Atwood, sweetly may you rest;
		Bards should have sung your praises long ago;


Too poor this tribute, yet it is the best
		A grateful friend and comrade can bestow.
							EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th, 1890.
	*The writer well remembers Brother Atwood's kindness
to his fellow sufferers in one of the belated handcar
companies who nearly succumbed to hunger and cold in
the terrible season of 1856. Many died, and all would
surely have perished amid the mountain snows had not
the Lord inspired President Brigham Young to send a
timely rescue.
								E. H. W.


[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
				OF
		ELIZABETH B. PRATT.
	As soon as the font for baptism was ready I
officiated for my sister as she had requested.
The year Joseph and Hyrum were taken to
jail was the most trying tsmes the Saints ever
expərienced. They had to endure sickness,
poverty and a stream of persection, the
Prophet and brethren in authority had to
hide up from mob violence. On the 27th of
June 1844 the Prophet and Hyrum his brother
were murdered in Carthage Jail. Those who
took him as prisoner pledged their word and
honor that he would be safe from violence.
When word came to Nauvoo of their cruel
deaths it was a day of mourning, weeping, and
and sorrow among all the Saints, for they
loved the man of God who had laid down his
life for the Gospel's sake even the atmosphere
and trees seemed to mourn the fate of the
murdered dead. I saw them when they were
in their coffins and they were just as I saw
them in a dream before I knew they were
dead. This prepared me for the shock as I
could not have believed it, as the Lord had
preserved his life so many times. In 1845 the
Temple was sufficiently built to administer in
the ordinances, many thousands received their
endowments, I was among the happy number.
	The quorum of the Twelve aud others ad
ministered in the Temple night and day until
early in the spring February 14th 1846 we
left our homes in Nauvoo and crossed the
Mississippi river and camped on Sugar Creek.
The first night we camped here we had a
snow storm, I took down with the ague and
chills till I thought I shook the ground, Mr.
Pratt administered to me and I had them no
more. We commenced to travel after the
companies were organized and continued to,
through rain and mud. In crossing the
Mississippi bottoms, when one wagon got
through the cattle were unhitched and hitched
on to the next one, the road became so muddy
that it was up to the hubs and had to take
the strength of several yoke of cattle as they
were weak, and only had the boughs of trees
to subsist upon. We often had our bedding
and clothing wet through. After traveling
one hundred and fifty miles, we camped on
Grand river, here the brethren planted a farm
to supply those who came after and named it
Garden Grove. We left here and traveled
on till we came to a beautiful grove, that
Parley named MtPisgah which was also
planted to vegatation and enclosed with a
fence and hounses built to accomidate our
friends who were left behind, Next we came
to the home of the Pottowatomies this was
called the Indian Village we found them very
sociable, while there we had a dance. Mr.
St. Clair had his home there and traded with
them he had two wives squaws, his daughter
by his first squaw was well educated, her name
was Ellen she was very graceful on horseback.
We traveled many miles from the Village
and correlted our wagons, this place they
called Cutler's Park. In July we arrived at
the Missouri river near Council Bluffs.
	Here the Mormon Battalion was mustered,

[Column 2]
Cal. Kane came to see about our affairs and
finding so many people homeless and wanderer's
not knowing where to find a resting place,
his heart was drawn out in sympathy for our
untold sufferings and he became a true friend
to our people and ever remained so. We
camped on the west side of the river and called
it Winter Quarters. The brethren built log
cabins and dugouts for their families to
screen them from the winter blasts. Here the
people were taken sick with the scurvy for the
want of vegetables and the common comforts
of life, and some died and laid down their
bodies there, till the call comes "awake come
forth!" As soon as we had camped for the
winter Mr. Pratt, Bro. Hyde and Bro. Taylor
were appointed a mission to England and we
were left camping in our wagons and tents and
as our best men were called away to Mexico
that made the labor harder on the men left
in camp. We were fifteen in family, we had
our teamster with us to do all the work.
Parley Jr. was only nine years and four months
old and not very strong. We had a log room
built to cook in and crowd into in the day-
time, we had to sleep in our wagons all
winter.
	We suffered with cold, hunger, and sickness
Our bread was corn meal ground on a hand
mill and not much to go with it. Mr. Pratt re-
turned from his mission in April after bring
gone over seven months. In his absence our
cattle and horses died and some were lost.
When Mr. Pratt returned President Young
and a company were camped on the Elk
Horn River twenty miles west, ready to start
out as Pioneers to the Mountains. After a
little rest Mr. Pratt began to prepare to go
with a company that was going to start in
June. There were five hundred wagons, and
being short of teamsters the women had to
drive. I drove an ox team a good part of
the way and walked a great many miles.
After traveling a long distance we met the
Pioneers returning from the Valley and camped
with them one day. We continued our
journey and after mauy losses, trials and
hindrances we arrived at our place of destina-
tion in September 1847. This then was a
barren, desolate looking place, but we were
thankful to be where we could have a rest
from our enemies, have peace of mind and
worship the true and living God without any
to molest or make afraid. We renewed our
covenants, had a short winter and very miln
one. Early in the Spring we commenced to
plant our gardens and were blessed with early
crops. We appreciated this very much as we
had been on short rations all winter. We had
to work hard to raise it, as then we did not
understand irrigation. The crickets were
troublesome, and many of our people suffered
for the want of food. We had lost nearly all
our cows and the few left were dry.
			[To be continued.]


FROM FAR AWAY.
	For the benefit of my Utah friends who I
know will be gratified to hear from me I will
briefly write of my present location, which is
situated about 230 miles south of my home
at Parowan Utah, over one hundred miles from
the nearest stage coach or telegraph office,and
so far from all civilization that sometimes I
feel that I must be a Robinson Crusoe or very
similarly situated. Overton is a village of
seven families located upon the Muddy river
their homes are very rude and small the roofs
being made of a coarse grass or rush sur-
mounted with a generous coating of dried
mud, ‘tis a very recent convenience to be able
to procure a lumber floor and those having
two rooms have this luxury in one room only.
Provisions such as yon can purchase cheap


are an exorbitant price and the poorest quality
of flour black and peculiar tasting $5. per
100 lbs and the little variety you can get
to go with it in proportion; as yet no fruit
grows here,though ‘tis pronounced an excellent
climate for many kinds. Irish potatoes do not
do well as they decay at an early stage. As
one drives up to Overton the place presents
rather a pretty view after riding so long
through rocks and sand, without passing
through a settlement, the first sign of one be-
ing near a habitable portion of the earth is a
grove of cotton wood trees though they rather
lost their beauty for me when I was informed
each settler was compelled to plant a certain
portion of his land with them, or do without
fuel of any kind; they are topped once in two
years; every thing grows so rapidly: at the
end of that time a new supply of fire wood
may be gotten,I presume the shade they afford
is very grateful in the summer, though I
would think other varieties might be introduced
thereby breaking the monotony of the scene
if nothing more. The weather is very warm
during the day and the flies right now are
worse than I ever saw them at any time in
Utah, at night just as soon as the sun has
gone to rest there is a damp chilliness exists
that is difficult to describe making one ap-
preciate a good fire; this with the alkali on
the water I believe is a great cause of the
people suffering so much from chills and fever.
	The people generally own considerable land
and entertain great hopes of realizing rich re-
turns from their produce etc. when the rail-
road comes through, at that time if I am still
here I shall expect to get butter for something
less than forty cents per. lb. and dried peaches
I trust will be cheaper than twenty cents a
lb. and come from California or Utah, it is
hard to tell which of us will get our desires
granted one thing I am assured of this hard
working community will earn all they may
get at any time.
	Wages for manual labor are very low for
the Indians here like the Chinese in some
other parts work for so little, they are em-
ployed in preference to the white men, an
Indian will work well ten hours for fifty cents
they are quite an intelligent looking tribe
their women are rather good looking, proud
and tasty about their dress, and show great
affection for their offspring. It is not an un-
frequent occurence to see the halfgrown ones
dancing homeward with their arms entwined
lovingly around each other like our good
natured romping school girls.
	I have not seen an “EXPONENT" since my
arriveal here there are no subscribers here and
having to depend on the pony express ‘tis
very doubtful when our mail will reach us.
There are no Mutuals, Primaries or Relief
Society Associations here I'm informed there
are meetings occassionally on the Sabbath, no
social gatherings of any kind as there is not a
musical instrument in the place. I am con-
confident should I ever be privileged to return
to the many dear associations I have left, that
they will be more highly appreciated than
ever. One thing the air we breathe here is
free and has never yet been tainted with the
terms employed by the courts in enforcing the
Edmunds law. Our rest refreshing and never
disturbed with that tiresome sickening sound,
"Unlawful cohabitation." I have conversed
freely with a number of the opposite sex and
not charged with that dreadful crime, so my
fond friends “there is no great loss without
some small gain." Adieu for this time.
	E. A. CRANR WATSON
Overten, Nevada Dec. 8,1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“If we are created in the image of God, we
also must be creators.”—Carmen Sylva


THE COIN OF POLITE SOCIETY.

	Whenever a kindly or considerate act is
shown you, my dear, be always careful to say
that magic index to good breeding—".Thank
you.” Certainly you say it to the man friend
who has given you an evening of amusement
at the theater or the concert, or who has
taken you to and fetches you from a friend’s
home. To whom else should yon say it?
	To the maid servant who hands you your
letters, who makes a special point of keeping
your room in good order, and who. remember-
ing that you liked certain things placed in a
certain way, was careful always to do it.
	To the stranger who holds open the door for
you, to the elevator man who saves you climb-
ing so many stairs, to the mau who gives you
a seat in the car or omnibus, and to any body
in any station of life, who shows you a courtesy
of any kind.
	We are apt to be very stingy with our
thanks; to accept things entirely too much for
granted, and to believe, in having courtesies
shown us, that they are only what we deserve.
Now this is the wrong way of looking at it
and some day it will serve that girl right—
that girl who believes that the good things of
life in the way of politeness are hers lawfully,
and without any effort on her part they can be
retained will discover her mistake. You can
never be too generous with thank-you’s; they
are the current coin of polite society, the circu-
lation of which tends to make everybody more
eeger to do unto others as you would be done
by. No girl makes a mistake who has a thank
you always ready. It is the index to a good
character aud a loving heart. Politeness is
golden, and thank you is the coin which passes
everywhere and is recognized by all.—Ruth
Ashmore in Ladies Home Journal.


GIRLS BEHIND THE COUNTER.

	If I were asked to give a set of rules or
suggestions for girls whose days are spent be-
hind the counter they would read something 
like this:—
	Remember that all the time spent in the
store belongs to your employer.
	That courtesy behind the counter wins even
the most captious customer.
	That gossip about young men, or with them,
is unbusiness-like, and under the circumstances,
rude.
	Never attempt to instruct a customer; while
you may suggest, or politely question, the
desirability of this or that.
	Do not say, “Here, Sade, hand me your
pencil,” to your neighbor.
	Never say “No,we haven’t got it,” in a short,
crisp tone; far better a polite “I am sorry to
say we do not have it in stock.”
	Do not thrust a package at a customer as
you would a pistol in the face of a highway-
man.
	Never throw down goods with an air which
seems to say, “I do not care whether you bny
it or not.
	Remember that the purchaser often sees
more in the seller than she thinks, and refined
young women have made valuable friends for
life by their courtesy to an accomplished
customer.
	Always remember, that duty to your
employer demands your best service, and duty
to yourself also.
	Seek to be a model saleswoman, and some
one will soon recognize your merits.
	Dress modestly and avoid cheap jewelry, the
best ornaments are: promptness, politeness, and
a well modulated voice, and strict atrention
to duty.
	Have your hair neatly combed yonr teeth
well brushed and your finger-nails tidy.


Customers are often repelled by uutidy clerks
of either sex.
	Remember always, that you are superior to
circumstances only when you make yourself
so. The most selfish, exacting employer will
gladly recognize the merits of an efficient
clerk.	
	Frown down with womanly scorn the non-
sensical title of "saleslady." It is a great
thing to be a woman anything; if you are a
true and goud woman, a good clerk is infinitely
more respectable than a so-called "saleslady,"
and the term has a shoddyish ring which is
totally un-American.
	Out of two hundred clerks in a large es-
tablishment, the favorite with nearly all of the
customers is a young women who invariably
dresses in black, and has such charming
manners that it is a positive pleasure to visit
her department.—Kate Tannatt Woods, in
Ladies Home Journal.


STORING GRAIN.

	A new method of storing grain is being in-
troduced, which is as remarkable as the inven-
tion of ensilage pits for storage of fodder.
Steel tanks are filled with the grain, and by a
suction pump the air is partly exhausted, and
a quantity of carbontc acid gas is admitted.
The valves being closed, the grain is expected
to remain for years without decay, and not
liaqle to be injured by weevils, so distructive
in the vast elevators where grain is now stored.
The cost is less, the storage per bushel being
about one twelfth what it is under the present
system- Farmers will be able to keep their
grain till the markets are favorable and the
proceedings of grain speculators will be
checked. With a steel tank at an outlay of
five-hundred dollars, the grower will be able to
store ten thousand bushels of wheat.


QUEEN ISABELLA. PAVILION.

	One of the prinncipal objects of the Queen
Isabella Association is to furnish an inter-
national Club House, with Congress Hall for
the use of women during the World’s Fair.
	One dollar apiece from the women of the
United States and Foreign Countries will
make possible:
	A commodious well-equipped, SOCIAL HEAD-
QUARTERS’ with CONGRESS HALL.
	GRAND CONVENTIONS of women on the
industrial and social problems of the day.
	CONFERENCE of women each in her own de-
partment of Science, Art, Literature, Thought
or Occupation.
	The certificate of membership, fee $1, non-
assessable, reads as follows: “That......is a
member of the Queen Isabella Association
until and during the World’s Fair of 1892, and
is entitled to the privileges of the Association
and the benefits of the Queen Isabella Pavilion
wherever the Exposition is located.”
	Five dollars will entitle the sender to one
share of the Queen Isabella Statue Fund,
limited and non assessable, to one certifieate of
membership in the Association, and to one
year’s subscription of the Queen Isabella
Journal.
	All property and funds of the Association
at the close of the Fair are at the disposal of
the members by ballot.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first number of the Weiber Zeitung
(the Women’s Journal), in the Polish tongue
and in Hebrew characters, has appeared in
New York. It advocates the right of women
to vote.


Mrs. Senator Blair’ who lives in Manchester
N. H., and is a member of St. Paul’s Church,
read a paper in that church recently in favor
of the admission of Women to the General
Conference. The pastor. Rev. J. M. Durrell 
also preached upon the subject, and the result
was a vote of 209, with only 37 in the
negative.
	Pundita Ramabai and Dr. Emma Ryder,
invited some high-caste Hindu gentlemen of
Bombay to a lunch and lo! the result: “The
priests have brought the offending gentlemen
to trial, and pronounced sentences against
them. For eating a simple meal with ladies
in the open day, these polluted Hindus must
'change their sacred thread,’go through a pur-
gation ‘bathe in some sacred tank or river,’ and
undergo other penalties.”
	Berlin is thronged with cousumtives from
all over the civilized world, Foreign doctors
hurry about its streets, having crossed oceans
to find out whether the reports are true. It
is impossible that Professor Koch himself
should see and instruct all of these; conse-
quently, overflow meetings, as one might call
them, are being held, conducted by the
pupils of the great master. In these clinics
patients are exhibited and demonstration of
the use of the lymph are made. The greatest
hope is entertained in regard to the value of
the remedy and it is even proposed that the
Prussian Government undertake its produc-
tion and distribution so as to ensure its correct
composition. Large sums of money too are
being placed at Koch’s disposal for the
establishment of hospitals for the reception of
patients for the new treatment.
	The Nightingale


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN’S STORE.

	The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Institution opened today
Monday Dec. 15th 1890 for business as also
for dressmaking. Mrs Caroline C. Roleigh
one of the Board of Directors is in the store
as saleswoman, and Mrs. Matilda P. Spencer
another of the members of the Board is in
charge of the dressmaking department. It is
earnestly hoped that the ladies of the City and
especially those directly interested in the
advancement of women will patronize and help
sustain this institution, which has been es-
tablished by the united efforts of a number of
the sisters who are anxious to promote home
industries and help forward the cause of equal
rights. The store is located at, 123. E. First
South St. opposite City Hall.


NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The twenty-third annual convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, D. C., in
Albaugh’s Opera House, Feb. 26—March 1st,
1891.
	Each annual convention has recorded an
increasing public sentiment in favor of woman’s
legal and political enfranchisement. Largely
as a consequence of our movement, the in-
dustries and learned professions have been
opened to women, laws have been changed
to secure protection for her personal and
property rights, and she has been welcomed
to a partial participation in government, as a
school voter in twenty-two States, as a munipal
voter in Kansas, and a holder of important
public offices in nearly every State in the
Union. But the coming convention will have a
fuller significance than any that preceded it.

	The admission of Wyoming into the Union

[Column 2]
as a State with equal rights for women
guaranteed in its organic law, not only sets its
sovereign seal of approval upon woman suffrage
after practical experience for twenty-one
years, but makes women a recognized factor
in national politics. Hereafter the chief
executive and the members of both houses of
Congress will owe their election partly to the
votes of women. The injustice and absurdity
of allowing women in one State to be sovereign
rulers, and across the line in every direction
obliging them to occupy the position of a
subject class, taxed without representation and
governed without consent, and this in a nation
which by its Constitution guarantees equal
rights, to all the States, and equal protection
to all the citizens, must soon be manifest even
to the most conservative and prejudiced. We
therefore congratulate the friends of woman
suffrage everywhere that at last there is one
spot under the American flag where justice is
done to women. Wyoming, is all hail ! the
first true Republic the world has ever seen !

	The present is a time of upheaval in politics.
New ideas are pushing to the front. The
brotherhood of humanity, the establishment
of justice, the protection of the weak, the
value of the individual, the right of all to
equal privileges and opportunities, are now
not only the rallying cry of moral and social
leaders, but are pressing forward to the ballot-
box as the expression of the popular will.
These all include and hinge upon the en
franchisement of women. Let us, therefore,
gather to this convention as those who know
that their cause is the outcome of all the heroic
struggles for freedom which have been made
in the past, and the forerunner of a more
perfect realization of the principles of republi-
can government.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON President.
	SUTAN B. Anthony—Vice President at
large.
	LUCY STONE—Chairman Execntive Com-
mittee.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL—Corresponding
Secretary.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY—Recording Sec-
retary.
	JANE H. SPOFFORD—Treasurer.

		NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS.
	The National Council of Women will meet
in the same place the three preceding days.
There will thus be a double inducement to
visit Washington at this time. The reduced
railroad fares will extend from Feb. 19th to
March 3rd. The Riggs House will be the
headquarters of the Association, and will give
reduced rates to delegates and visitors to the
convention.
	Every auxiliary State society is entitled to
send three delegates, and one additional dele-
gate foreach hundred members.
	The first executive committee meeting will
be held at 3 o’clock P. M., Wednesday, Feb.
25th.


OBITUARY.

	Died in Provo, Utah Co. Oct 6th 1890, of heart disease,
Elizabeth Annie Trehem Griffin aged 49 years, 11 months,
and 27 days. Sister Griffin was born in Herefordshire
England. She was baptized Nov. 1858, and rebaptized
into the United Order, August 1st, 1875.
	She was a member of the Newton Ward, Cache Co.
Utah, and was absent from her home, under medical
treatment for a tumor, and had partially recovered, and
was upon the point of returning home. But upon her
husband’s arrival in Provo he found her dead, she having
the previous night. The funeral services were held in the
Newton meeting house, and the remains followed to the
Cemetery by a numerous concourse of relatives and friends
	She was a kind and affectionate wife and mother and
leaves a husband and three children to mourn her loss.


She was the Treasurer of the Relief Society for a number
of years, and since 1883 acted as Secretary; and was the
President of the Primary Association since its organization
and was much respected by the children.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Griffin adopted by the
Relief Society of the Newton Ward.
	Whereas in the providence of God she has been called to
a higher sphere. We bow in reverence to the will of Him
who doeth all things well. She died in full faith of the
Gospel and will be missed by the Society.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society Record and a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					MARY ANN PARSONS,
					MARY JENKINS,
					MARY LEDINGHAM,
									Committee.


[Image of "UNION PACIFIC THE OVERLAND ROUTE" badge]
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S.W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
———————————————
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
———
R.K. THOMAS
—————————————–
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir
——————————————
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
—
**Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
41 EAST DAVID JAMES. BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
