VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1891.		No. 22.


CONTENTS.
	The Rich And The Poor—Cardinal Gibbons
Peper. National Council of Women. A Smart
Woman—Clara Selleck. Closing Class Exercises
—M. A. S. Rosa Ronheur. Miscellaneous. The
Gifts of the Gospel—M. E. Kimball. R. S. Re-
ports—Salt Lake—Box Elder. W. S. A. Salt
Lake Co. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Musical Festival. Editorial
Notes. Book Notices. Fifty-fifth Wedding Anni-
versary. A Pleasant Party. To My Sisters of
the Relief Society—Zina D. H. Young. Letter
From Nevada—E. C. C.
	POETRY:—May Song—E. B. W. Those Olden
Days—S. Graves. An Acrostic—W. C. The
Difference Cicily Corwin. What We Found at
Sister Bathsheba's—Lula.


MAY SONG.

We come from the hill-tops far away,
Tripping along, so blithe, and so gay;
The fairest flow'rs and sweets we bring,
With music we make the wild-wood ring,—
	To welcome the maiden May;
	For we crown our queen to-day,
The maids of honor her throne surround
And cast their garlands upon the ground.

We search for bloom where the fairies dwell,
We hunt for buds in the shady dell;
Roses and lilies in wreaths we twine
Woven from every leaf and vine,
	To adorn the queen of May,
	Whose sceptre we own to-day;
And the sweet notes for her we sing
And our purest offerings we bring.

The maids who come from from the sunny hills,
Have bathed in the sparkling, bubbling rills,
Have revel'd in loveliness, and light,
And quaff'd the nectar of dewy night;
	They have come to crown queen May,
	In their own sweet, graceful way,
The maids of beauty, lift up their voice,
For the queen of May, they made their choice.
								E. B. W.


THOSE OLDEN DAYS.

Those olden, olden days!
	When the world and we were young;
Looming through the golden haze
	Which the years have around them flung;
When the full matin roundelays
	With which the woodlands rung
Were a prophecy divine,
	And the chalices of life
Brimmed with rich and ruby wine.
	That so braced us in the strife
For the myrtle and the bays—
O, those olden, olden days!

Ah! whither have they fled
With their fond remembered dead?
The faces that we miss;
Lips we ne'er again shall kiss;
The vows that then were spoken.
Aye, and troths, alas, since broken!
Where, O where is now the dream,
And where the dreamers now?

I see the breadth of a noble brow.
And faces that beam with the magic gleam
	Of genius-lighted eyes.
		I see a maiden fair,
		With the sunlight in her hair.
And a soul as white as the stainless light
	That streams from the upper skies.


Ah! the years have chastened a lingering few,
In sunshine and shadow and falling dew; 
And the touch of the Christ has so softened the pain
As to change into rubies the dull drops of rain;
And service and sorrow a beauty have lent
To the lives that in waiting and patience are spent;
And time in his flight has a benizon shed,
As the chestnut has faded that whitens the head;
And this be the myrtle, the laurel, the bays.
That we gather and wear since those old, olden days
								S. GRAVES.
Atlanta, Ga.


[Column 1]

THE RICH AND THE POOR.

CARDINAL GIBBONS' PAPER.

	That distinguished prelate utters words
which ring with truth and sincerity, and calls
the unthinking to a realizing sense of their per-
sonal obligations. He sounds a note of warn-
ing. too, which must not go unheeded, if the
peace of the nation and the security of the
home are to be maintained. He says: "If we
may believe those who stand upon the watch-
towers and scan the signs of the times, a tempest
of war, to which all former wars were holiday
tournaments looms big upon the horizon aud
threatens to overwhelm the world in the horror.
Wealth and poverty, they say, stand more
and more apart, and glare across the widening
chasm more fiercely. 'While the wicked are
proud, the poor man is set on fire!' Capital
and labor, after severe skirmishes with varying
success, are arming for the supreme conflict.
How imminent the struggle may be no man
can affirm precisely, but signs there are which
may well fill us with disquiet. The rich are
daily becoming richer, the poor, poorer; luxury,
high living and the pride of life are on the in-
crease. The thirst for wealth becomes daily
insatiate; the cries of the distressed more sharp
and loud and poignant."
	"The economic conditions of the United
States are fast approaching those of England.
The homes of the poor are more marked by
destitution and squalor; the light of heaven
is being closed out from miserable tenement
room and attic; flesh and blood and becoming
more cheap, and bread more dear; the well-
being of the car-horse is more solicitously
watched  than that of the driver. Small
wonder that strong men, maddened by the
tears of wife and cries of starving children,
band themselves together, and sometimes re-
sort to deeds of violence.
	''It is high time, then, that Gladstone, Man-
ning, and Hughes, in England, should with
grave anxiety review the situation and sound
a note of warning. Most opportunely, here,
does a millionaire like Mr Carnegie declare it
to be the duty of a man of wealth, first, to set
and example of modest, unostentatious living,
shunning display or extravagance; to provide
moderately for the legitimate wants of those
dependent upon him; and, after doing so, to
consider all surplus revenues which come to
him simply as trust funds which he is called
upon to administer; the man of wealth thus
becoming the mere agent and trustee for his
poorer brethren."
	"What, then, is the duty of all good men
to avert the crisis? The answer is simple and
all-embracing. Back to Christ, his example
and practicable to all. There is enough, and
more than enough, within the pages of the

[Column 2]

four Gospels to disarm at once this array of
class against class. The sacred pages teem
with warnings to the rich. They are the words
of eternal truth. About their meaning there
is little substantial difference of opinion among
Christians of all shades. The bane of our
times is that the voice is no longer to many
a living voice, in the rush and clamor of
money-getting; the sacred characters are over-
laid and well-nigh obliterated by the daily-
gathering dust of worldliness. Yet, the Rev.
Hugh Price Hughes is right in affirming that
in the Bible the spirit of wealth and of greed
is oftener inveighed against than the crime
of adultery or drunkenness.
	"In the evening of careers of unexampled
brilliancy and distinguished public service
two of England's greatest men, seer-like, lift
hands and voices of warning. The conditions
which have come upon that land are, it is to
be feared, fast assuming shape and consistency
here. Let, then, the leaders of opinion and
the directors of conscience in this great re-
public strive earnestly and fearlessly by ex-
ample and precept, to avert the coming strife.
	"Above all, like the French workmen of the
Val-de-Boise and that great Christian socialist
le Comte de Min, let employers and employed
come together in amity, with a view to mutual
understanding. Let them state their mutual
grievancss and ascertain their mutual demands
and temperate Christian counsels reigning, the
result will be lasting peace."


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	At the meeting of the Executive Committee
on Tuesday afternoon Feb. 24, 1891, the fol-
lowing officers were elected for the ensuing
year.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis,
President; Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer, New York,
Vice-President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
Philadelphia, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
Isabella Davis, New York, Recording Secre-
tary; Mrs. Lillian M. N. Stevens, Maine,
Treasurer.
	At the final Executive Session of the Board
of the National Council of Women the follow-
ing resolutions were passed:

	Resolved: First, that the National Council
of Women of the United States send a memorial
to the clergy of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per cent. of
the membership of that denomination has al-
ready by formal ballot expressed a desire that
women be admitted to the General Conference
that the clergy shall, in accordance with the
will of the laity, grant the admission of women
to that body.
	Second: That the Council ask that women
be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee, and on all committees appointed in
the various churches for the revision of their
creed.
	Third: That the Council urge upon the
National Reform Divorce League the eminent
fitness and consequent obligation of placing
women on its Board.
	Fourth: That the Nation Council of Women
shall present to the proper authorities a formal
request that in all departments of its service
the Government shall pay its employees equal
wages for equal work, and that both in engag-
ing and promoting its employees it shall con-


sider efficiency and not sex, and thus set a
standard for the country.
	Fifth: That inasmuch as the Columbian
Exposition of 1893 will afford an exceptional
opportunity for convening representatives of
all countries, the officers of the National
Council shall invite the officers of the interna-
tional Council of Women, Millicent Garrett
Fawcett President, to hold its first meeting in
in the Summer of 1893.
	RESOLVED: That the general officers shall
appoint a committee of women whose duty it
shall be to report within a year suggestions for
a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good
taste.
	RESOLVED: That the Council approves the
movement for preventing the slaughter of birds
for the sole purpose of ornamentation, and
that it asks American women to imitate the
example of the Princess of Wales, who has
forbidden the use of the plumage of singing
birds on her toilets.
	The Council also resolved to furnish a block
of stone or marble, suitably inscribed, to place
in the monument to be erected over the grave
of Mary, the Mother of Washington, and
voted to commend to all organized bodies of
women the objects of the Mary Washington
Society.
	Before adjourning, the Executive Committee
passed a cordial vote of thanks to the musicians
whose gratuitous service had enhanced the en-
joyment of the meetings, and to the press,
local and throughout the country, for the
splendid service it has rendered the Council
during its session.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A SMART WOMAN.

BY CLARA SELLECK.

	"My wife is the smartest woman living. I
don't believe there is another in the country
like her," and Farmer Jones leaned on his
rake with a satisfied air, and took off his hat
to wipe the perspiration from his brow.
	"If she was like other women, a-gadding
about and spending all a man earned, I'd
never get rich." He rubbed his hands together
complacently and went to work again raking
the hay, from which he expected to realize a
generous sum.
	The young man to whom the conversation
was addressed, said to himself, "For my part
I'd rather be poor all my life than to have
such a toiling, tired-looking slave for my
wife. Its none of my bread and butter, only
I do hope he won't keep me waiting for my
pay when Saturday night comes, for I want
to take Sallie on that excursion next week.
	The young man kept steadily at work for
Farmer Jones had no idlers in his vineyard,
while he whistled to the time of his rake.

"No slave my wife will ever be
To scrub, and work, and dig for me,
With ne'er a kiss, a laugh, nor smile
To light the labors of her toil.
Her face with love will shine, will shine,
And sweet to know that she is mine."

	Yes, Farmer Jones' wife was a smart woman.
Before she was married she possessed many
accomplishments, besides thoroughly under-
standing the mysteries of housekeeping. She
was considered quite the smartest girl in town,
and when she married a poor farmer, she did
so with the expectation of placing her shoulder
by the side of his against the wheel of poverty.
	With the advancing years, as prosperity
smiled upon them, her burdens grew heavier.
The piano was never opened except for com-
pany. Her heart found no music in the glad
songs of old. No hired girl ever darkened her
door. "They were too expensive," her hus-
hand said.

[Column 2]

	When the children were sick with the fever
she asked him to hire a girl, but was met with
such a rebuke she did not repeat the request.
	His tendernhss had been swallowed up in
his eagerness for wealth.
	"If he would only give me a kiss, or an
encouraging word, sometimes," she would
sigh, "I would toil on without a murmur, for
love lightens labor."
	"Only a few years more," he would say, 
"and then we will take it easy, and the 
children will be able to take care of them-
selves, for I've brought my children up to
work."
	After a while the "few more years" passed 
and he did "take it easy." He could look over
the broad fields and claim every acre of
ground. The waving grain and fields of tas-
seled corn were all his. His pastures were
well stocked with cattle. He could look into
his house and see his children, most of them
grown. He could look for the counselor and
helpmate, who had helped to accumulate all
these good things, at his side, and look in
vain. He could sit in the firelight and weave
financial webs, but he could not see the patient
woman, either knitting or sewing, and ever
ready with wise suggestions, who had been the
light of his home.
	Yes, he could "take it easy" now, but it
was alone; for one day he came home to find
the tired soul, who had so longed for rest, at
rest. The dimmed eyes were closed to awake
in a glorious dawning. The care-worn hands
had ceased their labor; they were crossed
upon her bosom, while her sealed lips seemed
to say reproachfully: "I have done what I
could; angels could do no more."
	Mr. Jones alludes tearfully to the myster-
ious ways of Providence in removing such a
"smart woman" from the world. But does
he never think in the hour of retrospection
that he had something to do with her too
early taking off, and that a fitting sentiment
for her tombstone would read:
		"Worked to death."
	The Answer.


CLOSING CLASS EXERCISES.

	We had a very enjoyable time on Saturday,
May 2nd, at the closing exercises and exami-
nation of Sister Hannah Sorenson's class in
obstetrics; she having taught a class of twenty
members during the last four montht. The
Relief Society hall was crowded, there were
many of our local sisters and a few brethren,
and also many of the sisters from other settle-
ments, showing that a great interest was taken
in regard to Sister Sorenson's methods of
teaching obstetrics, which is indeed most de-
lightful and instructive, combining as she does
religion, morality, hygiene, temporal laws, with
much valuable instruction; treating upon the
most minute details pertaining to our physical
welfare, to the most difficult cases known in
obstetrical practise. Sister Sorenson has had
over thirty years practical experience in this
line, the knowledge she is in possession of is of
incalcuable benefit to the mothers and daught-
ers in Zion, and her most earnest desire is that
others, as well as herself,might be in possession
of this knowledge, that the suffering of women
be lessened, and that they may more thoroughly
understand their own organization, and the
God-given laws which govern the same; and
I trust the day is not far distant when every
daughter in Zion will see the necessity of
learning these things, laying aside their false
prejudices, and traditions, and seeking to un-
derstand true and correct principles, which
will benefit them, and their posterity through
time and all eternity.
	Sister Sorenson will also commence another
class on the 25th of this month which is very


encouraging, as it shows a desire in the hearts
of the sisters to become proficient in those
things that are most necessary for women to
understand.
		M. A. S.
Lehi, May 6, 1891.


ROSA BONHEUR.

	Rosa Bonheur, the greatest animal painter
of her time, is sixty-seven years old, yet she
says she has still work enough in her mind
to fill two lifetimes. In 1850 she bought a
house in the little village of By, on the banks
of the Seine, not far from the forest of Fon-
tainebleau. There she has lived and wrought
ever since. She has added stables and a studio
to her house. In the stables and grounds she
has had from time to time a veritable
menagerie of animals, including lions chamois,
bears, gazelles, and an elk. It is refreshing
to read that her studio contains not an article
of bric-a-brac and scarcely anything that is
not needed in the work of the great artist.
No "kickshaws" and no trash. She has al-
ways been an early riser. She says the morn-
ing is the best time for work. Her animals
are also more docile then. She spends much
time out doors, walking or riding in a little
carriage, which she herself drives. At her
work and out-doors she wears a man's clothing
with a peasant blouse. Her life has been
devoted to her art, pure and simple, and rich
has been her reward. There are wrinkles in
her face, but her enthusiasm keeps her
young.


Washington is the only city in the United
States that can afford to pay a Charity Com-
missioner three thousand dollars per. annum
to distribute fifteen hundred dollars to the
poor of the District. "The poor you have with
you always says the Lord" and the office hold-
er as well.  Let the poor trust in God, while the
Charity Commissioner draws his salary, the
poor are entirely unselfish as well as helpless
in this respect, but they are handy to have
around in the creation of Professors of Econ-
omy and chairs of Political Science etc., with
the title of PH. and GG. Professors of soft
snaps at the expense of the people. It is
enough to make the elements weep and the
earth to quake occasionally and go on a ram-
page but unfortunately the office holders are
never swallowed up in the avalanches or
chasms, for behold we have them with us for
all time.—The Working Woman.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Genius is the gold in the mine; talent
is the miner who works and brings it
out.
	But one thing on earth is better than a
wife, and that is a mother.—Leopold Schoner.
	When selfishness comes in smiling through
one door, love walks out grieving through
another.
	Fear sometimes adds wings to the heels,
and sometimes nails them to the ground and
fetters them from moving.—Montaigne.
	The preference of traditionalism, of out-
worn, lifeless finalities, to an ever open spirit
of inquiry, is not a foundation of faith, but a
form of unbelief.—Samuel Johnson.
	The greatest of fools is he who imposes on
himself, and in his greatest concern thinks
certainly he knows that which he has least
studied, and of which he is most profoundly
ignorant.—Shaftesbury.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ACROSTIC.

IN MEMORY OF DANIEL H. WELLS.

Devout and conscientious from his youth.
A fearless patron of the "Cause of Truth."
No dread of opposition swayed his mind,
In all conditions uniformly kind;
Enlisting in the hour when cowards flee,
Led by his love of right and liberty.

How truly great, how wise, and good was he,
All learned to love who shared his company;
No one could fail his virtues to admire,
More generous oft than prudence would require;
Exemplifying what he sought to teach,
Revered was he by all who heard his speech.

When falsehood's minions vex the saints no more,
Eternal Truth prevails from shore to shore.
Like Abram's blessings, his shall never cease,
Like stars above, or atoms by the sea
Shall be the heirs of him whose name you see.

		W. C.


THE DIFFERENCE.

Grandmother doted, when she was a girl,
On back-stitch and hem-stitch and cross-stitch and pearl,
Was taught in her teens by her own careful mother
To make the fine shirts for her father and brother.
Blithely she sung over distaff and reel,
And merrily tripped back and forth at her wheel.

Grandmother's granddaugther runs a machine,
Paints like a Titian on panel and screen,
Runs over to Paris to buy a new dress,
And lectures and docters and writes for the press.
Little she knows about distaff and reel,
But dotes—oh! so fondly on grandmother's wheel:
She decks every spoke with a fine satin bow,
And then sets it up in the parlor to show.

Patient and firm through her youth and her prime,
With precept on precept and line upon line,
Her hands full of work and her head full of cares,
Grandmother managed her household affairs—
Her closets and presses by prudent forethought
Filled with the work by her deft fingers wrought.
She married her husband for better or worse
And in her whole life never thought of divorce.

From club to committee, from concert to play, 
Grandmother's granddaughter hurries away.
To her church and her charities, culture and art,
She gives much of her time and a deal of her heart.
Her world is so busy, her work is so wide,
She can spare time and thought for but little beside,
Nor pauses to think in the hurry and strife
Of the peace and contentment of grandmother's life.

		CICILY CORWIN, in Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

THE GIFTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	Not long since I was told by a person of
my acquaintance that the gifts of the Gospel
did not prevail in this Church to day as they
did years ago, I listened with astonishment.
"Do you think so said I? I believe you are
mistaken, and I hope so at least. I know we
are humiliated by the human family many
times. But may God forbid that we should
grieve the Holy spirit that has blest us to the
full capacity of our faith in our Heavenly
Father.
	Did He ever leave us when we went with
relying confidence to Him for His aid and
assistance, in any trouble whatever? No never.
To this I can testify and so can many others
that are living to day, besides those who have
gone home to rest in heaven.
	I would here add. We can afford to lose
wealth and our good name in the world when
we know that we do not deserve to lose it;
since humility makes us acceptable to God.
But we cannot afford to lose the gift of the
Holy Ghost which will show ns things to
come and bring all things to our remembrance.

[Column 2]

That gift which enlightens the mind and
enlivens the soul: and gives that peace of
mind which the world can neither give or take
from us. Did not the Apostle say "ye are
temples of the living God, when His spirit
dwells in you.
	This spirit was promised to be given to those
who observe to keep the laws given by Jesus
the Savior of the world. What does Moroni
say upon this subject? (Section 7—verse 4)
	The Angel Moroni says, "The Lord prepareth
the way that men may have faith in Christ
and the Holy Ghost may have place in their
hearts according to the power thereof. And
Christ saith if ye will have faith in me, ye
shall have power to do whatsoever thing is
expedient in me. And he hath said repent
all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and be baptized in my name, that ye may
have faith in me that ye may be saved.
	Moroni says "Now my beloved brethren if
this be the case that these things are true
which I have spoken unto you God will show
unto you with power and great glory at the
last day that they are trne: and if true has
the day of miracles ceased? or have angels
ceased to appear unto the children of men—
or has He withheld the Holy Ghost from them
or will He so long as time shall last, or the
earth shall stand, or there shall be one man
upon the face thereof to be saved."
	"Behold I say unto you, nay; for it is by
faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by
faith that angels appear and minister unto men;
wherefore if these things have ceased, wo be
to the children of men, for it is because of
unbelief, and all is vain."
	"No man can be saved according to the
words of Christ save they shall have faith in
His name; wherefore if these things have
ceased, then has faith ceased also and awful is
the state of man: for they are as if there had
been no redemption made."
	"But behold my beloved brethren I judge
better things of you: for I judge ye have better
faith in Christ because of your meekness; for
if ye have not faith in Him then ye are not
fit to be numbered among the people of His
church."
	Will these words apply unto us? are we
meek and humble? or do every day affairs
occupy all our time. Well every day affairs
must and will occupy our time: but with an
eye single to the glory of God we shall have
greater light, is the Savior's promise and per-
form our duty acceptable. We cannot afford
to grieve His Holy spirit and cause it to
depart from us. We must seek that we may
find; and in the first place seek to know what
we are in the sight of God our father: for He
saith Mat. 7' chap. 25 ver. "Not every one
that saith unto me Lord, Lord shall enter into
the Kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the
will of my Father which is in heaven." 22nd
verse also says "Many will say unto me in
that day, Lord, Lord have we not prophesied
in thy name? and in thy name done many
wonderful works?" 23 verse "And then I will
profess unto them I never knew you; depart
from me ye that work iniquity."
	When we lose the gifts of the gospel, we
may know of a truth that we have grieved
the Holy Ghost which was given us after
baptism by the laying on of hands. The most
precious gift of all: because we need the light
and intelligence it so freely imparts to all who
in sincerity have faith in Jesus and His
teachings.
	We need it when we offer up our prayers,
that we may ask not amiss, but ask for those
things most expedient for our good and this
great preparatory work of meeting the Lord of
heaven; yes and of earth also.
	Yet there is another who claims the earth
and all that is on it. You will remember he
took Jesus up into an exceeding high

[Column 3]

mountain, showing Him all the kingdoms of
the world and the glory of them, and said "all
these things I will give unto thee if thon wilt
fall down and worship me."
	Without any contention Jesus only replies
"Get thee hence Satan: for it is written Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him alone
shalt thou serve.  Mat. 4 chap. 8, 9, and 10
verses.—Can any one doubt, that those who
will measure themselves by the pattern that
Jesus gave the human family to live by, and
live in accordance to it, will be tested every
whit as Jesus was. Yes, like gold tried by the
fire.
	Accordingly we need those gifts and graces
that the ancient Apostles had; that onr
prayer may be offered in an acceptable manner;
for the Apostle says the effectual, fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
We have known this to be true and shall we
doubt it now?
	We need to pray for the heads of govern-
ment. Look at the precarious times awaiting
us to day. Italy is insulted and offended.
The working men have an uprising. What will
be the result of all this, and where shall we
go for wisdom but to the fountain of light
and intelligence?
	St. Paul says, in Corinthians 12 chap 4 verse
"There are diversities of gifts but the same spirit.
There are differences of administration, bnt
the same Lord. And there are diversities of
operations but it is the same God which worketh
all and in all." He then speaks of eight gifts
given by the same spirit. For by one
spirit are we all baptized into one body. and
the foot shall not say, because I am not the
hand I am not the body, or shall the ear say
because I am not the eye I am not of the body.
Is it not of the body? The eye cannot say to
the hand I have no need of thee: or again the
head to the feet I have no need of you. Now
ye are the body of Christ and members in
particular, 27 verse. And God hath set in
the Church first apostles secondarily prophets,
thirdly teachers; after that miracles, then
gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities
of tongues.
	He then asks "are all apostles? are all
prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of
miricles? have all the gifts of healing? do all
speak in tongues? do all interpret? But covet
the best gifts and yet I show unto you a more
excellent way." He then speaks of charity, as
the greatest gift of all; he also says "these gifts
are for the work of the ministry, the edifying
of the body of Christ, until all come into the
unity of the faith."
	How can we come into the unity of the
faith only in the straight and narrow path
that Jesus marked out and followed himself.
He also says "Take my yoke upon you and
learn of me for my yoke is easy and my
burthen is light." With this Spirit the
Holy Ghost it is easy and the burthen is
light. Without it we find dark and con-
fused minds, and a dreary and cold world,
when destitute of that loving spirit of truth
the Holy Ghost. May we never consent to
grieve this Spirit or cause it to leave us to
ourselves while we stay upon this earth.
		M. E. KIMBALL.


Chief Juctice Green, sitting as District
Judge at Guthrie, Oklahoma, has rendered a
decision that women are eligible to public
office, Miss Cora E. Diehl was elected
register of deeds, but the former register re-
fused to surrender the office, on the gronnd
that a woman was not eligible. The judge
held that Miss Diehl was entitled to the office
and, further that a woman may, in the absence
of a statute, hold any office not incompatible
to her sex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. - No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1891.


THE MUSICAL FESTIVAL.

	Salt Lake City has already become somewhat
famous as a musical centre in the West, partly on
account of its great organ, and immense choir,
and one might believe the rich natural voices of
the boys and girls born in this mountain region.
That climate and conditions of country have
much to do with voices as well as temperaments
the writer firmly believes, but be this as it may,
the Latter-day Saints are a musical people and
the cultivation of talent has been greatly encour-
aged by those who have had influence and abil-
ity in this direction.
	The writer well remembers in the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo when journeying through
Iowa, the Nauvoo band, and singers, were such
an attraction that they were asked to hold con-
certs in the little new towns through which the
Pilgrims passed on their way.
	Evan Stephens the present leader of the choir
and President of the Choral Society, is a musical
genius, both in teaching and in leading a great
number of voices. Gifted beyond the multitude
he is able to bring into harmony hundreds of
voices and train them to follow his lead. He is
not only a fine interpreter of other men's compo-
sitions of high quality and power, but is also a
composer of considerable merit. His talent in
composition has been acknowledged by men of
experience in the musical world.
	Utah is fortunate in having such a rare genius
and one who has so many other admirable qual-
ities of character that make him so useful in
bringing out the latent talent of others
He has labored incessantly here to develop local
talent, and has succeeded in accomplishing very
favorable results, if he has not wrought out his
ardent anticipations. Last year the musical con-
cert given in the large Tabernacle in this City,
was composed entirely of local talent, and the
rendering of difficult, classical music exceeded
the expectations of those who knew how short a
time had been spent in training the singers.
	This coming month, June, will witness an event
of importance in the history of musical cultiva-
tion in this Territory unequalled here. Prepara-
tions have been going forward for some weeks,
and to make it a most thoroughly enjoyable and
delightful affair, Mr. Stephens has secured for the
occasion two of the most noted singers of our
day and time, Emma Thursby and Myron W.
Whitney. Then we have some local singers with
superb voices, Bertha Bayliss, Agnes Olson
Thomas, Bessie Deane Allison, R. H. Easton
and Heber Goddard soloists, and these with three
or four hundred or more trained voices, will cer-
tainly create a deep and grand enthusiasm, such
as nothing else in the world except good music
can awaken.
	Salt Lake may well be proud of the musical


talent developed here at home; the Tabernacle
choir when rendering a grand inspirational
anthem, or even hymn, lift the congregation to 
sublimest heights of emotional solemnity.
	For the expression of those deeper feelings of
the human soul where language utterly fails
music is the only perfect interpreter. The ap-
preciation of this divine art will be found in the
crowded audiences that assemble on the rare oc-
casions such as the coming June Festival. The
people from all the country round about will avail
themselves of this grand opportunity to hear the
rendering of choice selections by celebrated
artists, and home talent. The building itself is a
great advantage and then the organ second to
none in this country, adds wonderfully to the
effect of the whole.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If any of the sisters have extra copies of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT of Sep.1, 1889, or May 15,
1890, they will confer a great favor by sending them
to this office and will receive double price in re-
turn for each copy.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard attended the Confer-
ence of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Morgan Stake at Morgan on the 9th and 10th of
May, and also attended a general meeting of both
organizations at Croyden, Morgan Co., in com-
pany with Sister Lydia Rich, President Relief
Society of that Stake, and Susannah Hiner Presi-
dent Stake Y. L. M. I. A.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson and Lillie Freeze
visited the Summit Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence held at Rockport on Thursday the 14th day
of May, and also the Primary Association meet-
ing held the next day. At both these Confer-
ences there was a good spirit prevailing and
much interest manifesed in the onward progress
of woman’s work.

	June first is to be known hereafter as Children’s
Day among the Primary Associations, in honor of
Brigham Young the founder of the Territory, and
to perpetuate his memory in the hearts of the
rising generation. It will be a beautiful tribute to
him in all the years to come to celebrate his birth-
day anniversary in childish sports and songs of
rejoicing.

	This is the time to renew the membership of
the Deseret Hospital Association,in May. It has
now been established nine years. During that
time about nine hundred members have been re-
corded, but comparatively few of them have kept
up the membership fee of one dollar a year. The
beautiful attribute of charity is praised by all,
yet how few there are who put it to practical use,
and in what way can we better show our faith by
our works, than in bestowing charity upon the
sick and the afflicted. To alleviate distress is
one of the-most excellent things, and to do it in
a way that will be a public benefit, and without
knowing whom we are serving seems to us to be
an excellent method. We all give of our sub-
stance to feed the poor; we as a people donate
liberally, but when we help to support a Hospital
we are indeed lending to the Lord. Our sisters
and brethren should come forward with the mem-
bership fees, at least that we may know that
those who are carrying this heavy responsibility
are in a measure supported by members of the
association as originally organized. The Board of
Directors remember with pleasure when Presi-
dent John Taylor moved forward in this matter,
and himself became a regular member of the
Association, with other Apostles and leading
men of the Church. His example is worthy of
imitation.


BOOK NOTICES.

	ANNA ELLA CARROLL.

	We have just received the work entitled “A
Military Genius” “Life of Anna Ella Carroll of
Maryland, by Sarah Ellen Blackwell.
	It is a book of 168 pages,in nine chapters neatly
bound, and contains a steel engraving of Miss
Carroll when a young girl, a striking face, and
displaying a beautiful neck and arms, being taken
in the low neck and short sleeves, the fashion of
the period, also the picture of Kingston Hall at
Rohoboth Maryland where she was born, and
portraits of Thomas H. Scott and Benjamin F.
Wade. This lady now quite in years, having been
born in 1815, claims to have greatly benefited the
leaders of the late civil war, and has the papers
to prove her work, but her claims to any compen-
sation so far, have been ignored, or set aside,
though they cannot be disproved. The author
has collected together this material and published
it, that the world may know how much was done
by one woman to preserve the union intact. We
have not yet had time to read the book but know-
ing much of the work of this wonderful genius,
can safely recommend it and hope it, may find a
place in the homes of the people all over the
country, that at least she may have some little
remuneration for valuable services from the sale of
the book. And there may, through the circula-
tion of this work telling what she has done, come
a time when positive recognition of her labors
may be made by the Congress of the United
States.
	The book is for sale at the Woman's Journal
Office 3 Park St., Boston, Mass., and at the
Rooms of the Woman’s Suffrage Society, 1406;
G. St., Washington, D. C. Price $1.10 forwarded
free on receipt of Price. 
	YELLOW RIBBON SPEAKER.
	This little book “The Yellow Ribbon Speaker,'
contains Readings and Recitations suitable for
Woman Suffrage Associations, parlor-meetings
and entertainments compiled by competent judges
of articles on this subject. Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony, all
young women of practical judgment and relia-
bility. The matter is collected from the writings
of men and women most of them of national repu-
tation, for instance Wendall Phillips, Lucy Stone,
Susan B. Anthony, Phebe Carey, George William
Curtis, Henry Ward Beecher, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson, Zerelda G. Wallace, Grace
Greenwood, Hon. John D. Long, Harriet Stanton
Blatch, Harriet H. Robinson, and many others
“Three Dreams in a Desert,” by Olive
Schriener, is alone worth the price of the book.
All woman’s associations and those who want
posting on these questions will find in this little
work suitable prose and poetry, containing sound
logic; and some of the recitations are very
humorous. The book is published by Lee and
Shephard, Boston, Mass., price 50cts. All suff-
rage associations should keep a supply of suffrage
literature.


FIFTY-FIFTH WEDDING
	ANNIVERSARY.

	MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH HORNE.

	It is very rarely the case that husband and
wife both live to celebrate their golden wedding,
though it does seem that there are more of these
half-century weddings celebrated than there used
to be or perhaps it is because they get published
in the papers more than formerly.
	On the evening of May 9th, 1891, Joseph
and Mary Isabella Horne celebrated their fifty-
fifth wedding anniversary with a party of friends


at their beautiful new cottage on Third Stree
in this City. Both Mr. and Mrs. Horne are re-
markably well preserved for their years, and no
one would have judged the bride of fifty-five years
to have been nearly the age she is, three score and
twelve; she has a fine bright complexion and her
hair has no tinge of gray. It is pleasant to con-
template such a long life of married happiness,
and looking back over the years that are passed
this venerable couple must have much to be grate-
ful for, although in the changes that have taken
place in this Church and they are both veterans
in the cause, they have had much to endure, in
toil and privation. They have had a very large
family fifteen children; twelve grew to manhood
and womanhood, and they have a great many
grand children, in fact a numerous posterity upon
the earth, all residing in the Rocky mountain
region, and quite a number settled around them.
	The party consisted of a few comparatively of
their most intimate friends, those with whom they
had been associated in neighborhoods and in
bonds of brotherly and sisterly love.
	During the evening remarks were made by
several brethren and sisters present, President
Angus M. Cannon being the first speaker; he re-
ferred to his boyhood when he had first known
the host and hostess, and his pleasnnt recollec-
tions of Sister Horne’s associations with his
favorite aunt Leonora Taylor; he brought up such
reminiscences of the past as were suited to the
occasion and congratulated Brother and Sister
Horne on their success in life, and especially in
regard to their children. Thought it an example
in Israel. Elder Edward Stevenson followed in
a similar strain and Bishop Geo. H. Taylor made
a few remarks also, each one complimenting
Brother and Sister Horne and offering the most
hearty congratulations. Sister Sarah M. Kimball
who had, Sister Horne thought, known her longer
than any one of the guests present, spoke briefly
and naturally enough touched upon the subject
of woman's position, and made some very good
points. Sister Elmina S. Taylor followed her
speaking tenderly of the motherly advice and in-
struction she had given to her that had been
such a blessing and help. Sisters Smith and
Richardson spoke in a sympathetic way also of
the affection they cherished for her and the.
family. Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey, their
daughter, recited “The New Church Organ," and
their son Richard Horne sang an old-fashioned
mirth-provoking song.	
Delicious refreshments were elegantly served
by the daughters and grand-daughters and a lively
stream of conversation, mostly upon the scenes of
the past and the changes that had taken place,
was kept until a late hour, when the party was
dismissed with a benediction by President Angus
M. Cannon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies met by invita-
tion at the residence of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith on the evening of the second of May to cele-
brate the 69th anniversary of her birth. All those 
assembled were particular friends of hers, and
some of them had been associated with her for
many long years in labors of love; several of
these sisters had been acquaintances or neigh-
bors away back in Nauvoo in the early days of
the Church.
	"Sister Bathsheba" as she is best known, (that
name being more distinctive than the other) has
had in many  respects a serene and happy life,
owing mainly to her even temperament and cheer-
ful disposition. She is one of those well-or-
ganized or evenly balanced persons, that little
things do not ruffle, and that even great troubles
do not overwhelm with doubt and melancholy. In
fact she is amiable and self-reliant.She has passed


through trials that many women would have sunk
under, and yet she always looked upon them with
heroism and fortitude, and now in her seventieth
year, she stands alone, as independent as the 
evergreen, tree, youthful in her spirit, cheerful in
demeanor and gentle and gracious as though her
grand and noble husband were still by her side
to lean upon, though he has long since passed to
"the other side."
	I need not enumerate those who were present
only to say among the most distinguished guests
were Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society and Jane S. Richards her first Counselor,
Bathsheba W. Smith herself being the second
Counselor, and Sarah M. Kimball, the veteran
Secretary; also Mary Isbella Horne; Treasurer
of the Society, all of them grand Apostles of the 
faith. There were others present whose very
presence was an inspiration and a charm, two of
our sweet women poets Lula Green Richards and 
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and Mrs. Smith's 
daughter Mrs. Bathsheba Merrill, now a silver-
haired matron, and granddaughters Alice and 
Maud, who waited upon the guests in the most
delightful way, serving the appetizing viands and 
delicious fruits, cakes and creams in a natural, 
easy and dainty fashion.
	The evening was spent in conversation upon
various topics, also the renewing of old acquait-
anceship, and congratulations to the hostess
whose long years of service in the Church have
only added dignity and saintliness to her appear-
ance. A happy and peaceful spirit always pre-
vades her home, and she ever has a smile and a
cheerful face, and words of encouragement to 
greet her friends and co-laborers. 
	May her peaceful life continue to flow on in the 
same even channel, until she shall have finished
her allotted time here on earth, and her useful-
ness increase with her years in giving counsel and
imparting instruction and blessing the daughters 
of Zion in her calling, as a Priestess in the House 
of the Lord.


WHAT WE FOUND AT SISTER
BATHSHEBA'S.

'Twas Saturday, the second day of May;
And Sister Bathsheba was sixty-nine next day;
The evening came, and tired though we were.
We went to pay our kind respects to her.
Not kind respects alone, but heart felt love.
Asking all blessings on her from above;
For this dear Sister Saint, is one whose heart,
In all pure, true affection claims its part.
And in her home, where angels love to dwell.
Of what we found I wish to briefly tell.

Little household angel,
	Dainty, pure and sweet;
Springtime's loveliest emblem,
	Babyhood complete:
Never fairer blossom.
	On the earth has smiled,
Than our hostess' darling.
	Tiny great-grand-child.

Tokens too of Summer,
	Beautiful and chaste,
Pleasing to the senses,
	Luscious to the taste;
With delightful fitness,
	Free from worldly pride,
Her child and her child's children.
	Lovingly provide.

Then, our own Bathsheba,
	(Fancy thus conceives.)
Stands like glorious Autumn,
	With its golden sheaves.
Sometime in the future,
	Winter will have set
His white crown upon her,
	But he hasn't yet;
She's the Autumn May Queen,
	In whose praise we've met.

		LULA.


TO MY SISTERS OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	How pleasant to me is the sunshine of thought
and a devoted desire for the good of all humanity;
it dispels the clouds and the gloom that naturally
hover around us selfish mortals.
	Did not all those, who were favored to be at
the General Conference of the Church this
month partake of the comforting influence that
was so freely given to all present? and offered to
the whole world of mankind.
	We are taught "to call upon God while He is
near and seek Him when He is to be found." I
most humbly trust that my sisters will do this,
those who through toil and expense came from a
distance being hungry spiritually, were fed with
the bread of life, and I hope have taken home
with them sufficient to impart to those who were
not blest to be present. May we not forget these
precious things, like looking in the glass and
turning away forget what we saw therein, but be
able to treasure up the words of wisdom we heard
and continue to be even more faithful in all things
that another Conference may bring us still nearer
in spirit to become what our Father in heaven
wishes us to be, and has given us the privilege to
attain to aided by His spirit, faithful to the end
of our lives, that the sunshine of truth may ever
light our path and we as a band of sisters be
united in attending to all our daily duties, that we
may be one in our desires, and firm in our pur-
poses, and as President Taylor used often to say
for us "the kingdom of God or nothing." God
has truly manned the ship of Zion with order and
strength, that she has thus far out-rode the storms
and has made headway against the waves of per-
secution that have rolled high around her threat-
ening swift destruction. The invitation has been
extended to many of the peoples of the world, to
come and see what God has done for His people,
here in the mountains; and although the govern-
ment has lessened our family circles, the affec-
tion and true love that has, and does exist, is a
portion of heaven, that will produce its effect;
and by peace in our hearts amidst heavy respon-
sibilities, we shall not be forsaken. With the
changes that have been brought about many of
my sisters are now left lonely, with their precious
children; do not be discouraged, be faithful in
your prayers, true to yourselves in virtue and in-
tegrity, and you will not be cast down, for the
promises are for you and for your little ones, fear
not.
	Excessive pride has been and is a great snare
to many people, to be humble before God and
grateful for His blessings, is the safe path to walk
in, for through our deepest afflictions, if we will
not murmur at His providences, come the bright
rays of the sunshine of His Holy spirit. Ex-
perience is wealth, is knowledge, let us toil on
and faint not by the way; oft gather with our
little ones, in their Primary meetings, hear their
sweet voices singing the songs of Zion, seek to
elevate their pure minds, teach them true princi-
ples, tell them there are no mothers or children
so perfectly organized, watched over and pro-
tected as among the Latter-day Saints. If their
dear fathers have to be absent from them,or even
go to prison for the principles they have embraced
blessings are in store according to the things they
suffer. Mothers who have to toil on with their
little ones lonely, God will be with them, and if
they are patient and humble, He will pour out
rich blessings upon them; and their children will
grow up to be good and honorable men and wo-
men. Sisters let us not be discouraged, we are a
practical people and must prove our faith by our
works of obedience, as it is a world of toil and
hardship for a saint indeed.
	We as a Society are engaged in a labor of love,
in looking after the poor, comforting the mourner
and all who are cast down through force of cir-


cumstances; let no just complaints go up to our
Father in heaven of suffering that we could alle-
viate, either of the body or the spirit; we have
many duties to perform, many calls are made
upon us, and here let me say how I appreciate
the noble and liberal response made by our
sisters in the several stakes of Zion to the call for
means to send our Delegates to Washington, D.
C. to attend the Woman's National Council.
Please accept from me and the sisters who were
sent our most sincere thanks for your generosity
in contributing for this purpose. It was to bless
all, a general and unselfish cause, and will re-
move prejudice and spread the light, we have re-
ceived, that we may be known for our good works
among the nations. My sisters, I pray that you
all may be blest in your earthly treasures, and in
every gift and grace, with knowledge and wisdom
and an abiding faith in the truth.
	Let us sustain our home institutions and home
literature and especially the EXPONENT; our only
organ for the Relief Society in all its Stakes and
branches, to hear of our meetings, our Confer-
ences and to be informed of the workings and
condition of the Society as a whole.
	I very much regret having to be absent from
home for awhile in Canada. I wished to have
visited the sisters here and there in the various
localities, and in the lonely little branches at a
distance from head-quarters, I had greatly de-
sired to visit them this season; but there is great
comfort and satisfaction in knowing, that the
same sweet influence is with all the saints in
every land and clime; and may the good spirit be
given in rich abundance that the good seed sown
at the last Conference may bear much fruit, in
more perfectly uniting us in the bonds of love
and union which is to be enjoyed to all eternity.
	I shall surely remember my sisters, hoping they
may visit each other's branches and their Confer-
ences, and annual meetings, strengthening the
young people in the Improvement Associations,
and in the Primary; to bless this one,strengthens
all; comforts the parents, helps the Bishops
lessens his labors; all are honored in observing
these things.
	It is more than earthly treasures to care for
the poor, let no sigh of the needy ascend to our
Father. When I return home I hope to meet
often with my sisters and may our Father's bless-
ing abide with us all.
		Affectionately Your Sister
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	President Relief Society, April 21, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM NEVADA.

		Overton, Nev., May 9th 1891.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Some time ago I saw a piece in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT written from our quiet little town
which to do justice to the people and the place
should be corrected. We live in a small settle-
ment on a beautiful stream of water called Moapa,
which empties into the Rio Virgin River we have
plenty of land and more room for good settlers;
we have quite warm weather in summer but
generally a pleasant winter; we can raise almost
any kind of grain, and plenty of fruit such as
peaches, grapes, plums and almonds and any
other kind that may be cultivated. Generally the
health of the people is splendid, new settlers
sometimes have chills when they first come; we
have had some cases of la grippe and mumps here.
I have lived here for almost ten years and have
seen but one death of our people that being a
small babe. We are thankful to our Father in
heaven that we are not afflicted with diseases as
they are in a great many other places; you can
buy dried peaches at 8 & 10 cts. per pound,
raisins 12 1/2 cts., butter is generally 25cts. per
pound, we have a good flour mill, can buy flour


as low as $2.50 per hundred, we are a long way
from any saw mill and of course lumber is scarce,
and a valuable thing with us, some have shingle
roofs on their houses and others have them
covered with a kind of flag, we all afford a good
lumber floor, we have beautiful shade trees in the
summer they almost make a house for us being
so cool we prefer them to the house, they are
cottonwood, poplar, and locust trees not much of
a variety, but we look for the time when this
place will be more thickly settled then we will
prosper better. We have Sabbath School and
meeting every Sunday, also Primary, Relief
Society and Church Class in which old and young
take an active part. The children I can say are
very prompt in attending Primary and Sabbath
School, we have as good young men in our place
as one would wish to associate with; we have no
tobacco, strong drinks or bad language used
amongst them, they are well respected; we live a
long way from any large settlement the nearest
being St. George and it is a quite a rough road
to get here: hoping that this little article will find
a place in your paper.
		I am Very Truly &c.
			E. C. C.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Zion was
held in the 14th Ward Hall March 12, 1891,
Mrs M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand with the president were Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, Mrs. E. T. Webb, Mrs E. Stevenson,
and the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Con-
ference opened by singing "Once more we
come before our God," prayer by Mrs. E.
Stevenson, singing "Our God we raise to
thee;" Roll called, fifteen Presidents, and
eight Counselors responded. Minutes read
and accepted, reports from twenty-two
branches read.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the labor of
love the sisters were engaged in, and urged
the necessity of faith for the sick that they
might recover, exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence.
	The secretary then read twenty more reports.
Pres. Horne wished the reports condensed as
it took up so mnch time; said we want to be
faithful in visiting the sick and the needy, if
we keep the commandments of God we have
a claim upon Him and He will hear our
prayers for the sick and distressed. Send for
the elders to administer instead of relying
upon Doctors, let us use mild herb medicines,
and entreat the Lord to spare our loved ones;
I fear we have too much pride and vanity
among us, let us humble ourselves and be
united in everything; and let us patronize our
own institutions, sustain our woman's store;
and do our best to make a success of this
undertaking, we should work together in
temporal affairs as well as spiritual, whatever
tends to build up Zion, let us take hold with
energy and assist in. Sister Horne blessed
the sisters and asked the Lord to bless them.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
"Do what is right etc.", benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox-
	Afternoon sesaion commenced with singing,
"We thank thee O, God for a prophet,"
prayer by Mrs. E. T, Webb, singing, "O my
Father thou that dwellest." The general
officers of the Relief Society were sustained
by the Conference and also the afficers of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake.
	Pres. Horne expressed herself gratified to
have one of the Apostles present and knew
the sisters were also thankful for his presence;
hoped to recieve counsel from him; but first
would like to hear Mrs. Jane S. Richards

[Column 2]

give an account of her representing the
Relief Society in the Woman's National
Council in Washington.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards expressed herself
happy to meet in Conference with her beloved
sisters, had been well instructed with Sister
Horne's speech in the morning. The ladies
East she said had treated the Delegates from
Utah well and were as kind as they could be;
spoke of her dreading to go, and of the en-
couragement she recieved from her husband;
now that she had been and returned she was
thankful, she was thankful it was over; explain-
ed how hurried and yet how long the Council
meetings were; she had been favored in con-
versing with many ladies and explaining our
position, felt she would like five huudred copies
of the manifesto to distribute among them;
thought to many of them it would be interest-
ing reading; related items of interesting conver.
sations she held with many influential ladies.
There were quite a few gentlemen present on
the third day of the Convention to hear what
we had to say about Utah. Felt glad to be in
the meeting, though she hrd seen many fine
places and people while away, yet she felt at
home here among the Saints; though she
testified these ladies were working for the
welfare of humanity the best they conld; she
had invited many of them to come here, and
hoped they would, and if they did they would
be received with love and hospitality; told
them when coming to Utah to mix among the
Mormons and not go to outsiders to get in-
formation to prejudice them against us.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed his pleasure
in attending the Conference,men and women he
thought could not either of them get on very
well alone, therefore he felt the sisters were
entitled to some share of the very best attention
in the church; husbands and wives received
blessings together in the House of the Lord,
which were to endure for all eternity; and they
could be mutually helpful in performing their
various duties. Spoke of our  being gathered
together now and growing and increasing; that
the nations were looking to us and talking of
us. Pres Richards represented to the sisters
in a very able manner the great good that had
been accomplished in sending the Delegates
down to Washington, and what good seed had
been sown that would yet spring up to their
honor, thought the association of the sisters
among the influential women gathered from
the different States would be beneficial,and the
knowledge that the Rellef Society had branches
in many nations would become widely known,
thought the sisters should not regret anything
they had done to accomplish this great purpose.
	"The press throughout the world are talking
of the Mormons and wondering what we are
going to do; they are anxiuus to know all they
ban about us, we should pursue the course that
will help to bring about the time when the
Lord will come to reign over all, never forget
our religion, remember and always move on-
ward etc."
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made excellent re-
marks upon faith and the gift of healing, and
other important subjects. Mrs. E. Webb and
Mrs. E. Stevenson each spoke briefly and gave
good counsel testifying to the goodness
of God and urging the sisters to exercise
greater faith.
	Some business was transacted and Pres.
Horne made a few closing remarks, hoping the
good instructions which had been given
might be a blessing and a help to all. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, singing
"Praise to the man etc." Benediction by
Apostle F. D. Richards.
		E. HOWARD, Secretary.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief


[Column 1]

Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 10, 1891.
Sister Olivia Widerborg presiding, singing
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers," prayer by
Bishop Janson, singing "High on the mountain
top." Minutes read and accepted, reports read
by the secretary. Pres. Olivia Widerborg
made some explanation concerning the reports;
exhorted the sisters to diligence in their duties
as wives and mothers.
	Mary Watkins president of 4th ward; said
"May we when our time comes, be worthy that
welcome, 'well done, thou good and faithful
servant,' let us do good when we can, both in
our own family and in others, let our hearts
be lifted in prayer to God."
	Nancy A. Bigler, counselor in 2nd ward,
felt to do all in her power to help roll on this
work.
	Sena Gregerson, counselor in 3rd ward,
spoke of the assistance rendered by the girls,
they were great helps in sickness and making
clothing for the dead, said; "we should strive
to make home attractive for our children and
guard them from evil.
	Coun. Mary Wright: "We need faith and
need to sustain each other, to enable us to
pass through our trials, although they are
nothing compared to what our Savior endured,
Let us build each other up.
	Bishop Janson said the sisters are doing a
great work and much good, knew they were
as true in teaching doctrine and principles as
the brethren, spoke of faith in sickness, and
upon other subjects.
	Pres. O. Widerborg; "sisters let us keep the
spirit by which our brother has spoken, it will
exalt us in the presence of God. Singing
"The sun that declines in the far western sky,"
benediction by Elder Crawford.

	Afternoon session, singing "How great the
joy that promised day," prayer by Counselor
Adolph Madsen, singing, "An angel from on
high." Sister Hubbard president of Willard
City; "we can not be thankful enough for our
blessings, we have our name enrolled with our
brethren and sisters, we need constantly to pray
that it may always be so, spoke of the sickness
and death of Sister Cook, she was a faithful
saint, may we eventually be worthy to inherit
the blessings we set out for is my prayer.
	Sister Harper, president at Calls Fort, "I
think the sisters in our ward are doing a
little better than formerly, we have had a
great deal of sickness, but it has been said the
calamities should commence at the house of
the Lord.
	Condensed report read by Annie Wixom.
Coun. Adolph Madsen, warned the sisters
against the use of concentrated lye, also the
use of coal oil in making fires, I beg your
pardon for speaking of this, but terrible acci-
dents have occurred, mothers should be care-
ful with matches.
	Pres. Rudgar Clawson; "These meetings
bring about a spirit of union, the sisters have
a decided influence for good or evil, just as
they choose, it does not always manifest itself
in a direct way, nevertheless it is felt.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg; "you and I can not
afford to lose an opportunity to listen to the
teachings of the Relief Society, we are called
to give relief, let us look well after the sick
and poor, in such a manner that we may gain
the approbation of our Father in heaven; teach
your children to honor the priesthood; let us
take good care that our conversation and
actions at home may be such that angels and
our Father in heaven may hear; do not feel
discouraged, whatever may be placed upon
our heads, let us not murmur, He will give us
power to bear it."
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow; "looking upon this
assembly I see a very peculiar people, 'Mothers
in Israel,' I hope this is understood that you

[Column 2]

realize you 'Mothers in Israel,' that we are the
people of God, Joseph Smith said so; we are
sifted out of the nations, the Lord says "they
shall assemble together and He will raise up
teachers to them," I see it verified here to-day
you are gathered two of a family one of a
city. As your president has said, you have
sorrows and trials, you feel sometimes that you
have not a friend, even the Lord seems to for-
sake you, but so it was with the Savior, Jesus
Christ, we are not better than him, it seems
we must suffer, but how well we feel when it
passes and friends come; spoke of Job and how
his wife counseled him in his great trouble
saying "dost thou yet hold fast to thine in-
tegrity? curse God and die." We see this
spirit in the world, people suicide to get out of
trouble; but the mothers of Israel seek for the
comforter, what is the comforter? the Holy
Ghost; it is a principle of light, it is the principle
by which all things are made, even the Lord
on His throne, and according to our diligence
in living pure lives we shall enjoy and com-
prehend this principle. It is your privilege to
reveive as great blessings as any women since
the beginning of the world. Spoke of Rebecca
and of the mother of Samuel and the
prophetess in the temple who was told the
Savior should be born. You can have influ-
ence in your homes for a great deal of good in
connection with your husbands. Emma Smith, she
was a very peculiar woman, Joseph was perse
cuted on the right and on the left, he would
come home despondent she would tell him,
"this is the work of God, He will sustain you,"
how is it with you? when your husband comes
home, do you say, "stay at home and keep me
company," or will you encourage your hus-
band to do his duty? you sisters are making
a record, sending your children to school, and
Sunday School, what pleasure for a woman to
look back at a well-spent life, you need comfort,
many of you perhaps are farther advanced
than you know, I presume; what a beautiful
thing it is to be a Latter day Saint, what a
lovely thing it is to be a Latter-day Saint;
what ever we fail to receive in this life we shall
obtain in the next life, attend your meetings.
you sisters who hold office don't feel discour-
aged, we all do sometimes, stick to the truth,
stick to the Gospel, to your duties, all will be
well, God bless the Relief Society, God bless
the mothers in Israel."
	Pres. Widerborg made a few closing re-
marks, singing, "Great God attend while Zion
sings." Benediction by Bishop Jansen.
			EMILY D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of this county held its regular
monthly meeting in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday March 17, 1891, Pres. E.
Howard in the chair; prayer by the Chaplain,
Eliza Platte. The Sec. being absent Adella
W. Eardley was elected Sec. pro tem, the Sec.
read the by-laws of the W. S. A. of Utah.
Pres. Howard made a few opening remarks in
which she observed that we were all interested
in the great work being done by the women
of the world, and we should work for the same
political interests, and for suffrage for all;
thought when women had power we would
have better governments and purer society;
when the right people are in positions of trust
we will have a reformation in many respects;
urged the ladies to study politics more than
they had done; referred to its being St. Patrick's
day, and the way in which politics had been
run many years ago. Hoped members of the
association would be punctual in attending the
meetings, and study carefully the woman's
movement; "we ought to attend to every duty
faithfully, for time is precious and we all want
to improve."

[Column 2]

	Frances Smith, Louisa, Spencer, Mrs. Bar-
ton, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Margaret Caine,
Adella Eardley and Mary Silver each spoke
briefly but earnestly in defense of woman's
rights, defining what they considered her privi-
leges and advocating earnestness and deter-
mination.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane thought
we would have all the rights we wanted if we
would only prepare ourselves for them; mean-
time men would have to be converted; if wo-
men attained to a higher plane,  men  would
correspondingly rise higher.
	May Talmage, said she was interested in
suffrage; recalled with pride the last time her
mother voted; she walked five miles to deposit
her ballot; she thought women were advancing
all over the world; realized there were some
positions women could fill better than men."
The suffrage in the hands of women will not
detract from woman's duty at home; we should
have a programme for our meetings and study
and prepare ourselves at home.
	Elizabeth Price. related some of the ex-
periences and difficulties Lucy Stone had to
contend with when first starting out in wo-
man's cause; but opposition as we well know
is greater evidence in favor than against a
cause; woman suffrage had been agitated a
long time and the cause will go onward and
never fail, thousands of women have to make
their own living and they need the ballot,
ability and quality should be the test and not
the sex, for office, all women could not get
positions neither can all men.
	Emma Finch made a short but interesting
speech. Meeting adjourned, subject to the
call of the President.
		A. W. EARDLEY, Sec., pro tem.

	Minutes of the W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co.
held in the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms April
21st 1891, Vice Pres. Louisa K. Spencer in
the chair. Prayer by Frances Smith.
Minutes of the two former meetings read and
adopted. Roll called.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth McFarlane ad-
dressed the assembly, said that Mormon wo-
men are and always had been religiously and
socially free, they also wished to be politically
free.
	Sarah M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n.
and one of the delegates to the late convention
held in Washington D. C. asked if it was not
power, that women wanted, said that she for
one wanted power! woman should seek to ex-
ercise all the powers which God has endowed
her with, and not be contented to deplore her
situation and bear it, but take measures to
better the conditions. Recommended that we
lay systematic plans at each meeting, for our
next meetings work, thought that the exchange
of thought and sentiment of the delegates at
the Washington Convention had been mutu-
ally beneficial.
	Phebe Y. Beattie delegate to the Convention
from Salt Lake County gave a very pleasing
report of her labors, said they had been both
pleasant and profitable, and that she had been
highly complimented on the orderly manner
in which our reports had been compiled and
presented to the Convention.
	Honorary Vice Pres. Z. D. H. Young said
that we should exercise all the powers that
we possess to educate our children up to a
higher standard, than we a present have
reached, learn where power emanates from,
and use it to benefit the world; not merely our
own and ourselves; one drop of water alone is
of little worth, but a union of a large volume
of tiny drops makes a mighty power.
	Mary A. Freeze, Frances Smith, Caroline
Dye, and Dr. E. S. Barney, each made a few
pleasing remarks, after which the meeting was


adjourned until the third Tuesday in next
month, at the same place, at 2 o'clock, p. m.
		C. C. RALEIGH, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Maine M. E. Conference has voted in
favor of the women, 397 to 78.
	Mrs. J. S. Ladd and Mrs. Martha E.
Rolfe were recently elected school trustees in
Great Falls, Montana.
	Miss Willard has been criticised for being
an officer of the National Council among whose
ministers Unitarian and Universalist women
predominate. The public will do well to re-
member that the Council knows no race, class,
nor creed.
	Nearly $20,000 were raised in Denver, Col.,
in a single day, for the establishment of a
Deaconesses' Home. Miss Dora Adron, the
future superintendent, and Miss Elizabeth
Caldbdck, a graduated and experienced nurse,
both of whom were trained in the Chicago
Home, are already on the ground and at
work.
	The Woman's Canning and Preserving
Company. of which Miss Amanda T. Jones,
of Chicago, is president, is said to have a
capital of $1,000,000 and has one plant in
operation in Chicago which can put up 500
cans daily. They have also decided to build a
factory at Benton Harbor. Michigan. for the
canning of uncooked foods.


OBITUARY.

	There's another Bud removed,
		Ere it felt the blight of sin
	Through the gates the Angels made,
		Our baby has passed in.

	Died at Oakley, Cassia Co. Idaho March 28, 1891, Effie
Louisa, daughter of L. J. Robinson and Sarah E. Richards
Aged 11 months 21 days.

	"Our's the loss and, not our Darling's
		Our's the pain and her's the joy
	Our's the mourning and the weeping
		Her's the bliss without alloy.

	Her's the little feet that patter
		Making music as they go,
	Her's the little hand that beckons
		Ever from the radiant shore.
	Angel of the Lord to lead us
		Where we'll never lose her more."


A SAD DEATH.

	Died at Panacca, Lincoln Co. Nevada, April 13th,
1891; Jane Evelyn Wadsworth, aged twenty one. She
was deservedly beloved by all who knew her; how
great the bereavement of her sorrowing parents none can
tell, and the eyes of her many friends are dimmed with
tears, and their hearts are heavy with grief at the loss of
one that has passed away in all the bloom and loveliness
of her young womanhood.
	She had herself drank deep of the bitter cup of sorrow.
For in less than the short space of one year she had become
a wife, and had tasted the sorrows of widowhood, and
bade farewell to the cares of earth soon after becoming a
mother. For what wise purpose she was taken away from
this vale of tears, we cannot tell. We can only bow
our sorrowing heads in humble submission to the divine
will believing that what we know not now, we shall know
hereafter for.

	We know there is a world above,
		Where all the faithful meet;
	And we shall join with those we love,
		Around our Father's feet.
	And I shall hear sweet Jennie's voice
		In holier purer tone
	When all those blessed souls rejoice
		Around the Eternal throne.


Yes this is the only balm and consolation our wounded
hearts can recieve, that if we are faithful and are found
worthy, we shall in the morning of the resurrection surely
meet her again; where all tears are wiped away and there
shall be no more death.
	Rest in peace sweet Jennie.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary E. Taylor, daughter of John and Elizabeth Bailey,
and wife of Fred Taylor. We the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Fourth Ward, S. L. City, unanimously
adopt the following resolutions:
	To the memory of our esteemed sister, Mary E. Taylor,
who departed this life March the II, 1891.
	She was born in Salt Lake City, Christmas day 1853, in
the Fourth Ward where she resided until her death.
	She was a faithful member of our Society, being Secre-
tary for 18 years, and always took an active part in what
ever she was called to do. She took an active part in the
Sunday School and other societies, until the cares of her
family prevented her. She had a kind and cheerful dis-
position, and was benevolent to those in sickness and
distress.
	She was an affectionate wife and daughter, and an in-
dulgent mother.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father, to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister
and friend.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister the loss of a friend and co-laborer in the
Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and un-
complaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and with them acknowledge the
hand of our Father in heaven.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the
records of the Relief Society, and also be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a copy be forwarded to
the family of the deceased.
			SUSAN SPERRY,
			M. A. HADLEY,
			C. C. KIRK,
				Committee.

	April, 10, 1891.

		Mary thou wast kind and gentle,
			Good and noble, brave and true;
		And thy spirits gone to heaven,
			Where we hope to meet with you.

		We must part from thee dear sister,
			One we've known and loved for years;
		And it grieves us all to sadness,
			But we must dry up our tears.

		Bless and comfort her dear mother,
			May she live for many years.
		To her children prove a blessing,
			As she has in all past years.

		And her husband; God will bless him,
			If he puts his trust above;
		And his children prove a comfort,
			Though bereft of mother's love.

		All her friends and all her kindred
			Loved her tenderly and well;
		She was good and sweet and patient,
			With the ransomed she will dwell.

				C. C. KIRK, Ass't. Sec., R. S.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.


A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list of the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc., considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


MISS KATE WELLS
STUDIO
One door north of Z. C. M. I.-Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.-9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.

Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas,Sup
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and 
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,
123 E. 1st SOUTH	
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
be country promptly responded to.
Address	DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

