[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Magazine Promotion Work]

Magazine Promotion Work (Continued from page 496) "Selling," Edith Wilson, May 1939, page 332. Factors Contributing to Success In the Magazine Drive," Camille W. Halliday, August 1940, page 545. "Directing Magazine Activities Through the Union Meeting," Leone G. Layton, May 1941, pages 306-308. "Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives," Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942, pages 555-556.
Notes From the Field, Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942: "Relief Society Magazine Campaigns," pages 563-565. "Magazine Gift Subscriptions," pages 565-567. "Comments From Magazine Readers," pages 567-569.
COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES 503
Common Things
Elsie Sim Hansen
GRANDMA BAKER reached for the hot pad and slowly opened the oven door. The delicious aroma of newly baked bread flooded the room. Simultaneously the front door opened and closed with a bang. Things always happened with a bang, when Jimmie arrived.
"Gee! Grandmom, I just knew you would be baking bread."
"Now Jimmie, don't tell me you could smell this bread baking down at school."
"Not quite, but almost," laughed Jimmie.
Somehow, although Grandma Baker would not admit it, even to herself, this brown-eyed, tousle-headed grandson was a special favorite of hers. Jimmie realized this and there was a deep affection between them.
"Don't suppose you have a slice or two of that bread to spare?"
Despite the wishful tone of Jimmie's voice, Grandma was sure that the sparkle in his eyes was still there. They both knew it would not be many minutes before the desired bread would be in Jimmie's hands.
"Grandmom, why don't more people bake bread? I think it has the best smell in the whole world."
"Yes, Jimmie, I think you are right. There is just something about the smell of home-baked bread that makes a body hungry."
Grandma's thoughts began to wander. Yes, perhaps that was what was the matter with the world. It was hungry; not enough of the old
Page 504
things left, the common things, the friendly things that brought folks closer together.
Grandma's thoughts were quickly swept back to the present, as Jimmie started spreading the second slice of bread.
"Land sake, child, you won't want any dinner, eating all that bread."
"Oh yes I will, Grandmom. By the time I play ball over in the vacant lot for a couple of hours I'll be starved."
Then after a thoughtful pause, Jimmie continued. "Just think, Grandmom, all this nice bread and not a slice of it rationed. Bet there are a lot of kids who wish they had some."
Grandma smiled, and put her arm around the boyish shoulders. "I guess there are, Jimmie, we are fortunate. Have you ever stopped to think how many wonderful things there are in this world that are not rationed? The blue sky, the flowers, the birds, the trees, and the sparkling brooks? Our kind Father in Heaven created all these fine things and they are ours, free to enjoy, but few people take time to appreciate them."
"Miss Jeffry, our geography teacher, told us that the whole map of the world may be changed after the war, and that if we win, the whole world will be free like we are. We will win, won't we Grandmom?"
"Sure we will, Jimmie. This war is going to do a lot of harm, but it might do a lot of good also. It will make people realize that the best things in life are the common things."

Theology
Articles of Faith
Lesson 18The Gathering of Israel
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
(This is the second of five chapters that deal with Article 10)
Article 10: "We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes;..."
Lesson Aim: To show that through the mercy of the Lord, Israel is being gathered.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 18, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
The Gathering Predicted
Dire as was the chastisement decreed on Israel for their waywardness, amounting as it did to their dissolution as a nation, wandering as outcasts among alien nations, who have never ceased to treat them with contumely and insult, they have been sustained by the sure word of promise that a day of glorious deliverance and blessed restoration awaits them.
The sufferings of Israel have been but necessary chastenings by a grieved yet loving Father, who planned by these effective means to purify His sin-stained children. Israel are not lost unto their God. In spite of their sin the Lord said: "And yet for all that, when they be in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them: for I am the Lord their God." (Lev. 26:44; see also Deut. 4:27-31)
As complete as was the scattering, so shall be the gathering of Israel.
Biblical Prophecies Concerning the Gathering
Among the early prophecies concerning the gathering of Israel we hear the Lord declaring that it shall come to pass that when thou, Israel, "shalt return unto the Lord thy God, and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day... Thou and thy children, with all thine heart, and with all thy soul; That then the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon thee, and will return and
Page 505
506
gather thee from all the nations, whither the Lord thy God hath scattered thee. If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and from thence will he fetch thee: And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers." (Deut. 30:2-5)
Isaiah spoke with no uncertain words of the assured return and reunion of scattered Israel. (Isaiah 11:11-13; 54:7-8)
Jeremiah also voiced the will and purpose of God concerning Israel's subsequent deliverance. (Jer. 16:12-16)
"Backsliding Israel," "treacherous Judah," are the terms of reproof with which the Lord addressed His recreant people. "Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion." (See Jer. 3:12-18; also 23: 8; 25:34; 30:3; 32:37)
Ezekiel also declared the Lord's plan of Israel's restoration. (Ezek. 37:21-22; also 11:17; 20:34-42; 28:25; 34:11-13)
Amos clearly evidences that the reestablishment is to be permanent. (Amos 9:14:15)
Jesus of Nazareth also spoke of this important event: "And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Matt. 24:31)
Book of Mormon Prophecies
The gathering of Israel claimed the attention of many prophets whose teachings are recorded in the Book of Mormon. We have noted
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Lehi's discourse in the valley of Lemuel, in which that patriarch-prophet compared the house of Israel to an olive tree, the branches of which were to be broken off and scattered; now we may add his prediction regarding the subsequent grafting-in of the branches. (I Nephi 10:14; see also Jacob, Chap. 5.)
Nephi's predictions constitute some of the most comprehensive utterances concerning the restoration of the Jews. (1 Nephi 15:19-20; II Nephi 9:2; 25: 16-17, 20; also III Nephi 5:21-26; Chapter 29; Mormon 5:14)
It is evident from these and many other scriptures that the time of the full recovery or redemption of the Jews is to be determined by their acceptance of Christ as their Lord. When that time comes they are to be gathered to the land of their fathers; and in the work of gathering, the Gentiles are destined to take a great and honorable part. (II Nephi 10:7-9; 30:7; III Nephi 5:26; 20: 29-33; 21:21-27; Ether 13:8-10)
Latter-day Revelation Concerning the Gathering
Latter-day revelation concerning the gathering not only predicts the gathering of the saints to Zion, but announces that the hour for the gathering has come: "Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my Church.... Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: go ye out of Babylon; gather ye out from among the nations, from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Doctrine and Covenants 133:4, 7;
LESSON DEPARTMENT
29:7-8; 31:8; 33:6; 38:31; 45:25; 77: 14; 84:2)
Extent and Purpose of the Gathering
It is evident that the plan of gathering comprises:
1. Assembling in the land of Zion of the people of Israel from the nations of the earth.
2. Return of the Jews to Jerusalem.
3. Restoration of the Lost Tribes.
Moses, who was the representative of Israel's God when the Lord set His hand the first time to lead His people to the land of their appointed inheritance, came in person and committed to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the Ten Tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11)
Israel the Covenant People
The Lord has designated the people of Israel as especially His own. He covenanted with Abraham (Gen. 12:2, 3; 17:6-8; Gal. 3:14, 16), and confirmed the blessings upon Isaac
507
(Gen. 26:3-4) and in turn upon Jacob who was called Israel (Gen. 35: 11-12). And now in the day of gathering, the Lord is again bringing His people together to honor and bless them. The Redeemer was born in the flesh through the lineage of Abraham; and the blessings of that divine birth are extended to nations and every individual in mortality.
Restoration of the Lost Tribes
It is thought that while many of those belonging to the Ten Tribes were diffused among the nations, a sufficient number to justify the retention of the original name were led away as a body. Their exodus from the north to Zion is an important part of the gathering. (Doctrine and Covenants 133:26-34)
Note: Since the present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed, and there is a wealth of knowledge that has been revealed, it is deemed advisable that no discussions nor speculations be entered into concerning the present location of the Ten Tribes.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah," by Robert Robinson-Annie F. Harrison, Relief Society Songs, p. 23; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 184.
"O Ye Mountains High," by C. W. Penrose, Relief Society Songs, p. 12; Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 198; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 19.
"Pilgrim Chorus," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 270.
"Beautiful Mountain Home," by George Manwaring-A. C. Smyth, Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 162.
The class leader should plan her lesson well in advance. Since passages of scripture from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants are essential to a discussion of this lesson, the class leader might appoint, well in advance of the presentation of the lesson, three committees, each committee to be responsible for the reading of passages from one of these three books.
508
Each committee should not exceed three in number including the chairman. At the time the lesson is presented, committees should sit in front of the class, grouped according to the book assigned to them. As the lesson proceeds, the class leader should call on committee members for desired passages bearing on the phase of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
lesson under discussion. This will impress upon class members that the standard works of the Church all deal with the important subject of the gathering of Israel.
Class members should be encouraged to bring their own books to class and as passages are read they should find them in their own books and follow the readings carefully.
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
We have been gathered to the valleys of these mountains for the express purpose of purifying ourselves, that we may become polished stones in the temple of God. We are here for the purpose of establishing the Kingdom of God on the earth. To be prepared for this work it has been necessary to gather us out from the nations and countries of the world, for if we had remained in those lands we could not have received the ordinances of the holy Priesthood of the Son of God, which are necessary for the perfection of the Saints preparatory to his coming. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, page 186)
The Jews and JerusalemJerusalem is not to be redeemed by our going there and preaching to the inhabitants. It will be redeemed by the high hand of the Almighty. It will be given into the possession of the ancient Israelites by the power of God, and by the pouring out of his judgments. Jerusalem is not to be redeemed by the soft, still voice of the preacher of the Gospel of peace. Why? Because they were once the blessed of the Lord, the chosen of the Lord, the promised seed. They were the people from among whom should spring the Messiah; and salvation could be found only through that people. The Messiah came through them, and they killed him; and they will be the last of all the seed of Abraham to have the privilege of receiving the New and Everlasting Covenant. You may hand out to them gold, you may feed and clothe them, but it is impossible to convert the Jews, until the Lord God Almighty does it. By and by the Jews will be gathered to the land of their fathers, and the ten tribes, who wandered into the north, will be gathered home and the blood of Ephraim, the second son of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, which is to be found in every kingdom and nation under heaven, will be gathered from among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles who will receive and adhere to the principles of the Gospel will be adopted and initiated into the family of Father Abraham, and Jesus will reign over his own and Satan will reign over his own. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, pages 186-187)
In speaking of the gathering, we mean to be understood as speaking of it according to scripture, the gathering of the elect of the Lord out of every nation on earth, and bringing them to the place of the Lord of Hosts, when the city of righteousness shall be built, and where the people shall be of one heart and one mind, when the Savior comes; yea, where the people shall walk with God like Enoch, and be free from sin. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 93.)
The greatest temporal and spiritual blessings which always come from faithfulness and concerted effort, never attend individual exertion or enterprise. The history of all past ages abundantly attests this fact. In addition to all temporal blessings, there is no other way for the Saints to be saved in these last days, (than by the gathering) as the concurrent testimony of all the holy prophets clearly proves, for it is written"They shall come from the east, and be gathered from the west; the north shall give up, and the south shall
LESSON DEPARTMENT
keep not back." "The sons of God shall be gathered from afar, and his daughters from the ends of the earth." It is also the concurrent testimony of all the prophets, that this gathering together of all the Saints, must take place before the Lord comes to "take vengeance upon the ungodly," and "to be glorified and ad-
509
mired by all those who obey the Gospel." The fiftieth Psalm, from the first to the fifth verse inclusive describes the glory and majesty of that event. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 183)

Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Lesson 2Ordered Living
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
TO live affirmatively, purposefully, abundantly, is possible for each of us, and to do it is a major achievement. To fill one's days with useful work, to do well the task immediately in front of one is to be happy now and to make secure the future. A well-ordered life is free from lost time, lost motion, desultory effort, and needless worry. Plan your work and work your plan, is a good motto. Well-organized, effective work is the panacea for most of the ills of life.
Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and greatest Americans, followed consistently and successfully what he called "the scheme of employment for the twenty-four hours of a natural day." His day was well-balanced and perfectly organized. He had rest, recreation, and work. In the morning he asked this question: "What good shall I do this day?"; and in the evening, this question: "What good have I done this day?" He lived a long and useful life and made a better contribution to the time in which he lived and to his country than almost any other man. He is one of the best examples in history of a self-made man.
One of the secrets of really great living is having ideals and standards and then living up to them. When we cherish lofty ideals and strive heroically to attain them, we are made both strong and happy. What we become depends in no small measure upon our ideals. We unconsciously approach the ideals which we love and cherish.
Latter-day Saint women should exemplify the noblest womanhood, because they are the products of the ideals and standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They should be models of the finest motherhood, subscribing to the highest standards of Christian living. They should evidence a willingness to devote their lives to the service of others, and should be a constant source of encouragement and inspiration to those about them.
510
The doctrine of eternal progression, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, should make us a great people. The knowledge that we lived before we were born and that we will live after we die, that we came here to be trained for a higher and better world, carries with it an impelling motive to noble endeavor that should register in the life and conduct of each of us.
Discussion
1. What is your concept of a well-ordered life?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
2. What are the essentials of good living that should be included in one's plan of life?
3. Why are standards and ideals important?
References
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, pp. 53, 255-256
Relief Society Magazine, July 1941, p. 467
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, p. 329, paragraph 2

Home Topics
For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods
Lesson 2Tools for Housecleaning Tasks
(Care and Storage)
Tuesday, November 9, 1943
HOUSEKEEPING is highly interesting and important work. Housecleaning can be brisk, efficient, and stimulating or it can be grim and time-consuming. Much depends on the tools at hand. The more efficient the tools, the faster the work. And, naturally, the results will be better, too.
Important items of cleaning equipment and materials include:*
Vacuum cleaner and attachments Carpet sweeper Applicator for floor wax Corn or fibre broom dust mop wet mop (string or cellulose sponge) scrubbing brush (long handle preferred) dust pan (long handle preferred) toilet-bowl brush Whisk broom or upholstery brush 2-4 treated dust cloths (combine 1 pint hot water and  cup lemon oil. Dip cheesecloth squares into solution. Press solution through cloth thoroughly; squeeze out excess moisture and then dry thoroughly) 6 cheesecloth squares (24" by 24") 2 flannel polishing cloths
*For a more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 140-142. We must remember that this list represents the ideal, and many items are not obtainable at present due to the war.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
3 cellulose sponges (for kitchen, washroom, and cleaning basket) 2 floor cloths (for kitchen and bathroom) Silver polish Wax (paste, liquid or self-polishing) Lemon oil Mild scouring powder or whiting Toilet-bowl cleaner Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Household disinfectant Mild soap (chips, flakes, beads, grains) Paint cleaner
Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care. A vacuum cleaner lags on the job when the dust bag is clogged with dirt; a soiled duster or mop is little better than none at all; and a carpet sweeper can't pick up surface dirt if its brush is snarled with lint and hair, if the dust pans are filled to overflowing, or if the bristles are worn too short to touch the carpet. A few minutes a day spent in cleaning and caring for equipment will pay good dividends in service.
Cleaning Basket
A small inexpensive open market basket with a handle makes an excellent cleaning basket which can be carried from room to room quite easily. A fitted oilcloth lining with pockets to hold small objects is easy to make, and helps to keep the basket in order. With a cleaning basket there will be no need for hurried trips back to the source of supply for forgotten items.
Check the contents with the following list before you start your cleaning program:*
Whisk broom or upholstery brush (for brushing draperies and upholstery) 1 treated dust cloth (for daily dusting) 2 cheesecloth squares (for washing and drying woodwork)
511
Cotton waste (for applying polishes and cleaners) 1 flannel polishing cloth (for rubbing or polishing) 1 cellulose sponge (for washing woodwork, walls, etc.) Art gum eraser (for removing soiled spots from walls or from lamp shades) Furniture polish or lemon oil or wax Mild scouring powder or whiting Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Scissors
One item that is generally overlooked in both house plans and apartment layouts is space to store cleaning equipment. Mops and brooms behind doors, the vacuum cleaner in the hall closet, dusters and polishing cloths tucked away in odd cornerssuch haphazard storage is the general rule, even though it means hundreds of extra steps and a great deal of petty annoyance. Perhaps you have always accepted this state of affairs, with definite irritation to be sure, but have never actually given much thought to a satisfactory solution.
A careful study of floor and wall space will lead to ideas no matter how hopeless the situation may seem at first glance. On page 138 in our textbook, America's Housekeeping Book, you will find a good illustration of what can be done if you can find wall space 29 inches wide and 78 inches high, plus one shelf and one drawer in another location. This is not ideal, but it is a great improvement over half a dozen storage places. If you can find a corner space, so much the better. On page 139 of the textbook is shown an ideal storage closet for cleaning equipment which you may be able to build in some unused space.
*For more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, p. 142.
512
Often there is an extra clothes closet on the first floor which is used for haphazard storage and which might well be transformed into an adequate cleaning closet. Closets can be made convenient through the addition of shelves, racks, drawers, and partitions at very little expense. Shallow shelves down one side, a shelf running the width of the closet within easy reach, clips for holding brooms, mops, etc. on the remaining wall space, on the door a shoe bag with pockets for holding dusters, floor space for the vacuum cleaner, carpet sweeper and pailand you have an orderly, efficient cleaning closet.
Of course problems vary. Each homemaker must face her problem and work it out according to her circumstances. However, if you can find any space at all, you can with a little patience work out a satisfactory storage place. Be sure to place the tools that are used most often in the most accessible positions.
An hour or so spent in planning and working
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
out storage space will be worth your while. "A place for everything and everything in its place," is a first principle of law and order. Storage space that is both adequate and convenient, contributes a great deal to the efficiency of the homemaker.
Questions for Discussion
1. Discuss: "Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care." (Example: vacuum cleaner, dusters, carpet sweepers, etc.)
2. What method have you used to successfully store household tools? In the light of the class discussion can you see room for improvement?
3. To save time and energy, what method do you use for assembling tools and cleaning supplies in the room to be cleaned?
4. A practical demonstration on the use and care of one or two specific cleaning tools might be interesting and helpful.
Reference
America's Housekeeping Book, Chap. 21, p. 131

Literature
The Bible as Literature
Lesson 2The Bible Epic
Tuesday, November 16, 1943
EPIC and story in earlier times carried essentially the same meaning. Like lyric and song, the two words were practically synonymous. Through the long years, however, the term epic has acquired a more expansive meaning. As commonly used today, epic implies a composite story, with each part helping to develop the larger tale. Often the story group centers in some hero: as in the Odyssey, which depicts the adventures of Odysseus; or in Hiawatha, which portrays the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
life story of a great Indian leader. Sometimes the epic deals with a distinctive phase of tribal or national life. Whatever its nature, however, it is made up of various stories, set together as spokes in a hub, or links in a chain, to effect the central purpose.
A number of such "story cycles" or story groups are to be found in the Bible. At the beginning of Genesis, for example, is the epic-like Story of Creation. Following this, comes another story group dealing with the Deluge and its sequences. In another closely linked series of stories, the Patriarchal period is portrayed. Exodus opens the great epic of Moses. Around this leader, story after story is given to portray not only his life, but also the people whom he led out of
