contents with the following list before you start your cleaning program:*
Whisk broom or upholstery brush (for brushing draperies and upholstery) 1 treated dust cloth (for daily dusting) 2 cheesecloth squares (for washing and drying woodwork)
511
Cotton waste (for applying polishes and cleaners) 1 flannel polishing cloth (for rubbing or polishing) 1 cellulose sponge (for washing woodwork, walls, etc.) Art gum eraser (for removing soiled spots from walls or from lamp shades) Furniture polish or lemon oil or wax Mild scouring powder or whiting Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Scissors
One item that is generally overlooked in both house plans and apartment layouts is space to store cleaning equipment. Mops and brooms behind doors, the vacuum cleaner in the hall closet, dusters and polishing cloths tucked away in odd cornerssuch haphazard storage is the general rule, even though it means hundreds of extra steps and a great deal of petty annoyance. Perhaps you have always accepted this state of affairs, with definite irritation to be sure, but have never actually given much thought to a satisfactory solution.
A careful study of floor and wall space will lead to ideas no matter how hopeless the situation may seem at first glance. On page 138 in our textbook, America's Housekeeping Book, you will find a good illustration of what can be done if you can find wall space 29 inches wide and 78 inches high, plus one shelf and one drawer in another location. This is not ideal, but it is a great improvement over half a dozen storage places. If you can find a corner space, so much the better. On page 139 of the textbook is shown an ideal storage closet for cleaning equipment which you may be able to build in some unused space.
*For more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, p. 142.
512
Often there is an extra clothes closet on the first floor which is used for haphazard storage and which might well be transformed into an adequate cleaning closet. Closets can be made convenient through the addition of shelves, racks, drawers, and partitions at very little expense. Shallow shelves down one side, a shelf running the width of the closet within easy reach, clips for holding brooms, mops, etc. on the remaining wall space, on the door a shoe bag with pockets for holding dusters, floor space for the vacuum cleaner, carpet sweeper and pailand you have an orderly, efficient cleaning closet.
Of course problems vary. Each homemaker must face her problem and work it out according to her circumstances. However, if you can find any space at all, you can with a little patience work out a satisfactory storage place. Be sure to place the tools that are used most often in the most accessible positions.
An hour or so spent in planning and working
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
out storage space will be worth your while. "A place for everything and everything in its place," is a first principle of law and order. Storage space that is both adequate and convenient, contributes a great deal to the efficiency of the homemaker.
Questions for Discussion
1. Discuss: "Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care." (Example: vacuum cleaner, dusters, carpet sweepers, etc.)
2. What method have you used to successfully store household tools? In the light of the class discussion can you see room for improvement?
3. To save time and energy, what method do you use for assembling tools and cleaning supplies in the room to be cleaned?
4. A practical demonstration on the use and care of one or two specific cleaning tools might be interesting and helpful.
Reference
America's Housekeeping Book, Chap. 21, p. 131

Literature
The Bible as Literature
Lesson 2The Bible Epic
Tuesday, November 16, 1943
EPIC and story in earlier times carried essentially the same meaning. Like lyric and song, the two words were practically synonymous. Through the long years, however, the term epic has acquired a more expansive meaning. As commonly used today, epic implies a composite story, with each part helping to develop the larger tale. Often the story group centers in some hero: as in the Odyssey, which depicts the adventures of Odysseus; or in Hiawatha, which portrays the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
life story of a great Indian leader. Sometimes the epic deals with a distinctive phase of tribal or national life. Whatever its nature, however, it is made up of various stories, set together as spokes in a hub, or links in a chain, to effect the central purpose.
A number of such "story cycles" or story groups are to be found in the Bible. At the beginning of Genesis, for example, is the epic-like Story of Creation. Following this, comes another story group dealing with the Deluge and its sequences. In another closely linked series of stories, the Patriarchal period is portrayed. Exodus opens the great epic of Moses. Around this leader, story after story is given to portray not only his life, but also the people whom he led out of