[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: When she was able to go out into the living room again it was May The spring was full of golden days the desert sweet with them To be continued  Food Preservation]

When she was able to go out into the living room again it was May. The spring was full of golden days, the desert sweet with them. (To be continued) << Food Preservation (Continued from page 470) Many homes have good storage facilities. A cool, ventilated cellar under the house offers good conditions for storage of vegetables.
Cellars with heating furnaces are usually too warm and dry, but often a room may be partitioned off where the temperature may be controlled by outside windows.
Natural earth makes a better floor than concrete or brick because a certain amount of moisture is necessary.
Outdoor storage cellars or caves are excellent for storing vegetables.
Many farms have this type of cellar. It is built partly underground and offers protection from freezing, and keeps vegetables and apples in excellent condition.
Department of Agriculture, Farmer's Bulletin No. 879, for the construction details of many types of cellars. We found a very simple method of storage quite satisfactory last year for keeping our Victory Garden products. Carrots, beets, turnips, and onions were put in boxes and bushel baskets, a lid placed over these containers, and holes dug in the garden soil to a little below the depth of each container, then leaves and a very small amount of soil were heaped over the containers.
When we needed the products the leaves were removed, but replaced again after getting the desired amount. 'These vegetables kept very well until they were all used, sometime in January.
This was a very simple method for the small amount of excess vegetables we had grown during the summer. Bibliography Stark, A. L., Drying Fruits and Vegetables for Home Use Farmer's Bulletin No. 879, U. S.
Hinckley will begin his weekly series of addresses, "The Home, The Workshop of the World"; and Thursday night, July 15, at 9:45 to 10:00 p. M., Elder Adam S.
Bennion will begin a series entitled "When Two Generations Meet," The Princess Ruby Scranton Jones OIS SINCLAIRE, first grade teacher at the West Side School, waited impatiently for the children to remove their galoshes. "Sit straight," she said sharply and, giving the pitch, began the morning song.
Some minutes after the tardy bell had rung, Robin Marshall hurried in and slipped into his seat. "Late again," Lois announced. "This will never do, Robin. You bring down our record."
Robin hung his head. "He's always clean, at least," Lois thought as she noticed his nicely ironed blue coveralls with the folded handkerchief peeping from the breast pocket, and his blond curls brushed smooth. She couldn't say as much for most of her pupils.
There was no excuse for letting children come to school dirty with their shoes untied and their hair not combed. She could hardly bear to look at some of them and nothing could have induced her to touch them. "Readerspage 6," she commanded.
Then began the monotonous repetition, "I see the dog. The dog can run. I see the cat. The cat can jump." "Next, Robin."
When he did not begin, Lois looked at him in surprise. He never lost the place and he was a good reader. "Robin," she repeated. "The cat," he began, "c can " She looked more closely. Big tears were falling on his book. "Carl," she said out loud, but she? Thought, "The big baby. Oh, why did I ever accept this job? I don't know anything about children of this age. Why didn't they put me in high school where I belong?"
Lois got through the day somehow.
Everything seemed to go wrong.
Again and again Robin failed to recite. "The child must be sick," she thought.
Usually he was all enthusiasm and smiles.
When she came back from escorting the children to the door that afternoon, Lois sat down wearily, her head in her hands.
This school had the reputation of being the least desirable school in town and it seemed to Lois that it was living up to its reputation. Miss Thomas, the second grade teacher, a woman past thirty-five, came in to borrow some colored chalk. "How do you stand it?"
Lois stormed. "You've been here ten years." "Oh, it's a job," Miss Thomas answered listlessly. "Not much is expected here." She helped herself from the box on the desk. "Well, I don't intend to waste my life on such children," Lois went on, "Tl make such a record that the supervisor will notice and transfer me." She took up some pictures she had brought that morning and began to tack them to the wall. One was of a rosy-cheeked boy sliding downhill on his sled. His happy smile made her think of Robin again.
What was the matter with the child, anyway? He was the one Page 479 480 bright spot in her day, usually, but lately he had failed her. If she was going to make a record, she had better begin with him.
Lois put on her new squirrel coat and pulled her scarlet tam over her dark curls.
Going back to the desk, she turned through her roll book and found Robin's address318
Sherman Streetnot too far to walk. She would go and have a talk with his mother.: Lois walked rapidly, for the wind was cold. As she approached the railroad tracks, she noticed that the snow got dirtier and dirtier and scraps of paper blew about. A shrill whistle sounded, and gates appeared from nowhere across her path. A long freight train moved by. Could a train have delayed Robin, she wondered? She must remember to caution the children. She had better not urge them to hurry. By the time the street was clear again, Lois was cold. She walked rapidly and soon found the number she sought. The porch was covered with muddy dog tracks. An old woman opened the door a few inches. "Im looking for Mrs. Marshall," Lois explained. "She lives at the back," the woman snapped, and closed the door. Lois went round the house. The snow had been cleared away but there was no pavement. Seeing a door at the side, she knocked. The door was opened by a young woman scarcely older than Lois. She smiled and Lois said confidently, "You are Robin's mother." "And you are his teacher." The woman stepped back courteously. "He has told me about your lovely coat. Come inwon't you?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Lois stepped in and was immediately sorry she had not taken off her galoshes for the bare floor was spotless. Mrs.
Marshall drew a plain wooden rocker towards the range. "Sit here," she said, "you must be cold."
Lois noticed that the room, though small, served as kitchen, dining room and living room. 'There was very little furniture.
Some clothes hung on a line over the stove. '"Won't you take off your coat?" Mrs.
Marshall asked as she put a shovel of coal on the fire. "No," Lois answered. "I can't stay. I just came to ask why Robin has been tardy so often lately."
Just then a wail came from the clothesbasket on the table. Mrs.
Marshall took out a tiny baby and held it to her shoulder.
Then she began. "Wellyou see. I'm very sorry. It's my fault, I supposenot manag-. Ing." She stopped and fussed with the baby's blanket. "It must be hard to get small children up in the morning," Lois offered. "Oh, that isn't it."
Again a pause followed. "It's just that it's so hard to dry his coveralls." I don't understand," Lois said. "Well, you see, I can't wash them till he goes to bed. It was all right when I could hang them out but now they don't get dry." The baby cried again so the young mother walked back and forth.
Lois waited because she did not know what to say. Hesitatingly Mrs.
