[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Whisk broom or upholstery brush (for brushing draperies and upholstery) 1 treated dust cloth (for daily dusting) 2 cheesecloth squares (for washing and drying woodwork)]
treated with sulphur.
This is to improve the appearance, keeping qualities, and food values.
After sulphuring, the fruits are sun-dried.
They should be covered with cheesecloth or screens to prevent flies or insects from contaminating them. Apples Apples are the most commonly dried fruit. 'They are sliced in quarter-inch slices and may or may not be sulphur treated and dried in full sun.
Fruit that is sufficiently dried has an elastic springy feel.
Most fruits such as cherries, peaches, apricots, and pears are canned for home use.
These fruits may also be dried, however. The Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service in Logan will supply detailed methods of sulphur treatment and drying these fruits. Drying Herbs Parsley, mint or sage may be easily dried for winter use.
Hang them inside with the leaves down, and when dry, remove the leaves and store them in glass jars. 4
Storing Dried Products Be sure that foods are thoroughly dry. Sun-dried fruits should be heated in the oven at 200 before storing.
Store in paper bags, covered jars, or airtight tins.
Preparation for the Table Soak overnight or for several hours (about one pound of vegetables per pound of water).
Drain the water into a kettle, bring it to a 469 boil, add the dried product and cook until tender. Do not overcook. FREEZING This method of food preservation is comparatively new, and is becoming increasingly popular. The natural fresh flavor, appearance, and food values are satisfactorily maintained.
Present research indicates that quick freezing does not destroy vitamins A, thiamin (B:), riboflavin (Bs), or ascorbic acid (C).
Vitamin losses increase if the preparation for freezing is delayed.
Following are some rules to insure high-quality frozen products: 1.
Select high-quality fresh products ready for immediate use. 2.
Clean and prepare to preserve natural color, flavor, and food values. 3.
Pack or wrap in reasonably airtight containers. 4.
Freeze in quick freeze room where temperature is 10 or 15 degrees below zero. 5.
Store in lockers where temperature is kept at zero. 6.
Keep products frozen until ready for use. 7.
Cook products requiring cooking in such a way as to retain the most food values. Freezing Fruits Fruits that freeze satisfactorily include all kinds of berries, cherries, apricots, peaches, figs, plums, and prunes. 1.
Select fruits ready for table use. 2.
Wash carefully, discard underripe, overripe, or bruised sections. 3. Cut large fruit (apricots, peaches, prunes) in halves or slices. 4.
Pack in waxed containers, fruit jars or enameled tins. (Do not use rub- ' ber rings on fruit jars.) 470 5. Use sugar, (1/2 cup to 1 quart of fruit) ot cold syrup (342 cups sugar to 1 quart water).; 6.
Keep fruit as cool as possible and get to the locker at once. 7.
Freeze at 10 to 15 degrees below zero. 8.
Store where temperature is kept at zero with no more than 5 degrees variation. Freezing Vegetables Vegetables that freeze satisfactorily include asparagus, green beans, lima beans, broccoli, chard, corn, peas, spinach, and cauliflower. To Prepare Vegetables for Freezing 1.
Select as for table use (get products to locker as quickly as possible; no more than two hours should elapse between time of harvesting and freezing). Z.
Clean and wash thoroughly. Cut, shell or slice according to type of vegetable. 3.
Scald vegetables in boiling water. Use a wire basket or mosquito netting bag. Be sure water is boiling.
Scald small amounts, 5 to 6 pounds. Do not over-scald. Time: Asparagus2-3 minutes Beans (Lima)2-3 minutes Beans (Snap)2-3 minutes Broccoli3-5 minutes Cauliflower2-3 minutes Corn (cut)z2-5 minutes Peas1-1/2 minutes 4.
After scalding, place at once under cold running water and leave until the vegetable is as cold as the water.
Remove from water as soon as the vegetables are cooled. 5.
Place products in waxed containers, fruit jars with rubber-rings or all sealing lids, or enameled cans that are airtight. 6.
Pack vegetables dry or in a 2% brine solution. In the brine pack method, vegetables are packed dry in containers, and then 1/ cup of brine is poured over each pint, leaving 2 inch
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 head space in pint containers, and 4 inch in quart containers. Brine Solution 4 teaspoons table-salt dissolved in 1 quart warm water 5 1/3 tablespoons table-salt dissolved in 1 gallon warm water Chill brine before pouring over. Vegetables. (The brine solution should be used as the cooking water when vegetables are used. ) 7.
Keep the vegetables as cold as possible until they reach the locker. 8.
Quick freeze and store in locker. HOME