[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Common Things]

Common Things
Elsie Sim Hansen

GRANDMA BAKER reached for the hot pad and slowly opened the oven door. The delicious aroma of newly baked bread flooded the room. Simultaneously the front door opened and closed with a bang. Things always happened with a bang, when Jimmie arrived.

"Gee! Grandmom, I just knew you would be baking bread."

"Now Jimmie, don't tell me you could smell this bread baking down at school."

"Not quite, but almost," laughed Jimmie.

Somehow, although Grandma Baker would not admit it, even to herself, this brown-eyed, tousle-headed grandson was a special favorite of hers. Jimmie realized this and there was a deep affection between them.

"Don't suppose you have a slice or two of that bread to spare?"

Despite the wishful tone of Jimmie's voice, Grandma was sure that the sparkle in his eyes was still there. They both knew it would not be many minutes before the desired bread would be in Jimmie's hands.

"Grandmom, why don't more people bake bread? I think it has the best smell in the whole world."

"Yes, Jimmie, I think you are right. There is just something about the smell of home-baked bread that makes a body hungry."

Grandma's thoughts began to wander. Yes, perhaps that was what was the matter with the world. It was hungry; not enough of the old things left, the common things, the friendly things that brought folks closer together.

Grandma's thoughts were quickly swept back to the present, as Jimmie started spreading the second slice of bread.

"Land sake, child, you won't want any dinner, eating all that bread."

"Oh yes I will, Grandmom. By the time I play ball over in the vacant lot for a couple of hours I'll be starved."

Then after a thoughtful pause, Jimmie continued. "Just think, Grandmom, all this nice bread and not a slice of it rationed. Bet there are a lot of kids who wish they had some."

Grandma smiled, and put her arm around the boyish shoulders. "I guess there are, Jimmie, we are fortunate. Have you ever stopped to think how many wonderful things there are in this world that are not rationed? The blue sky, the flowers, the birds, the trees, and the sparkling brooks? Our kind Father in Heaven created all these fine things and they are ours, free to enjoy, but few people take time to appreciate them."

"Miss Jeffry, our geography teacher, told us that the whole map of the world may be changed after the war, and that if we win, the whole world will be free like we are. We will win, won't we Grandmom?"

"Sure we will, Jimmie. This war is going to do a lot of harm, but it might do a lot of good also. It will make people realize that the best things in life are the common things."
