[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Home | Title: out storage space will be worth your while. "A place for everything and everything in its place," is a first principle of law and order. Storage space that is both adequate and convenient, contributes a great deal to the efficiency of the homemaker]
STORAGE Several vegetables lend themselves to storage better than to any other method of preservation. Carrots, beets, celery, onions, late cabbage, parsnips, sweet potatoes, potatoes, and turnips may be stored as they come from the garden. Cabbage Vitamin C is one of the important food nutrients in cabbage. Raw cabbage is one of the cheapest year-round vitamin C foods. It also contributes calcium, phosphorus, and iron.
Cabbage may be stored and used fresh. It may also be made into sauerkraut and packed in jars. Sauerkraut Use fully matured heads.
Shred and place in stone jars. Use alternate layers of cabbage and salt in proportion of one pound of salt to forty pounds of cabbage.
Pack firmly in stone jar, cover with a clean cloth and a board or plate on which is placed a weight heavy enough to cause the brine to come up to the cover.
Keep at about 86 F. For about 10 days to allow it to ferment.
Remove skum as it forms.
Pack in glass jars and add enough brine to fill jar. (Continued on page 478) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ERNARD SHAW has stated that woman's emancipation, with the growth of feminism, has not tended to discourage masculinity in men, but has tended to discourage boorishness, a trait of the weak who are trying to conceal their weakness. "THERE have always been men who believe that women like to be dominated by the "stronger sex." Ralph A. Habas, in the April issue of Facts, discusses this question thoughtfully in an article, "Do Women Want Domination?". He takes the negative viewpoint, and says that an attitude of voluntary cooperation should be the keynote of a happy marriage; neither dominance nor submissiveness, but a deep-seated regard for each other's personality. "THE magnitude of America's Red Cross movement may be gauged by activities in its Brooklyn, New York, headquarters, reported by Louis Markey in "Twenty-four Hours a Day," (Red Book, April 1943.) Most of the 43,000 workers are women,