[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic HALLOWEEN CTOBER and Halloween, one suggests the other.
Coming as it does the last night of October, preceding All Saints' Day, is reason for its name?All Hallow Even or Halloween.
Like many other holidays it has been inherited from Pagan times. In part it is survival of the ancient Briton autumn festival in honor of the Sun God, at which time bonfires were made by the Druids to show their appreciation for the harvest.
They also believed that the Lord of Death gathered together the souls of those who had died within the year and because of their sins their souls had entered the bodies of animals. It is also a revival of the ancient Roman festival in honor of Pomona, the Goddess of fruit and flowers.
These two religious ceremonies have merged, however, into a more modern form and are celebrated at the time of year sacred to both.
Although it is now far from the expression of thanks for the harvest, it is regarded by many as the time for those who lurk about in dark places to sally forth and give information to the living about love, marriage and death. It is also thought to be the night when witches, devils and all mischief-making beings are abroad; especially the fairies, it is said, hold their grand anniversary on that night. Ancient Celts thought a great deal about death and life after death, so that in countries where their descendants live some superstitions prevail that the suffering departed souls are liberated from Purgatory and are free to visit their old homes or places of worship, and so everything is done to make them welcome and comfortable when they return. In some countries Halloween still carries the religious sentiment that inspired its celebrations but in general it has gradually become one of the most frivolous and sportive of all holidays.
Many of the customs and superstitions of ancient time have continued and are still used, such as ducking or bobbing for apples, roasting nuts, etc. The black cat, the white hare are companions of the LESSON DEPARTMENT witches and are much evaded on that night. To counteract the rowdyism and destruction of property that too often is perpetrated by those whose chief aim is to hang gates on telephone poles and ring fire alarms, such organizations as parent teachers, outing clubs, chamber of commerce, municipal recreation commission, have cooperated in different parts to celebrate whole-heartedly 561 in a community way so that all may participate in legitimate stunts or pranks suitable to the occasion.
Since it is a holiday that children love, could not the Relief Society members help to encourage the use of good wholesome fun and entertainment and inore home parties by way of celebrations and thereby decrease some of the delinquency among young people. Literature (For Third Week in November) THE NOVEL A HUMAN DOCUMENT "Man is his own star; and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect man Commands all light." the ages has been to gain an understanding of the laws of life. Man has learned that his greatest happiness lies in his own harmonious development. Slowly, very slowly, he learned that disobedience to moral law brings suffering and deeds done can never be undone. "Thou shalt not" of the Decalogue, the gift of the ancient Hebrew civilization to the world, announces no penalties, but its message to mankind is plain: Sin is the conscious, intentional violation of the laws of morality.
Universal experience is that which is the same for all men. The universal substance of literature from the abiding realm of human experience, the ideas, feelings, sympathies, emotions, and passions which move and: inspire men's lives, brings to M AN'S spiritual quest through Man a deeper understanding of life. An Universal Problem "Man by suffering shall learn," the words of Aeschylus to the ?Emerson Greeks twenty-four centuries ago as they witnessed the drama "Agamemnon," recorded the truth that disobedience to moral law brings suffering. On an ancient Assyrian tablet recently discovered is recorded a single word, "Evil." The problem of human suffering and its source has been a baffling mystery to man in all-ages. Job's impassioned answer to the friends who would have him confess his sins, because they were the cause of his suffering was, "The tents of the robbers prosper." The fact of a destructive force or evil at work in the world is well established. The supreme tragedy of life is to be the victim of one's own acts. The tragic element in life as portrayed in art is of great significance, "The great periods of art, of literature, of painting, of architecture, were ages of faith when men looked about them with amazement and trembled before the splendor and mystery of the world."
Tragedy as portrayed in drama and fiction is not an imita562 tion of men but of life. Aeschylus, the first Greek tragedian portrayed man in his relationship to God and Nature with the message, "If Nature has launched man on a sea of troubles she has given him strength to endure." Tragedy, then, is a way of thinking about life presented dramatically or in story form. The art of fiction has produced its greatest masterpieces thinking thus about life; ""Anna Karenina," by Tolstoy, and "The Scarlet Letter," by Hawthorne.
Hawthorne and "The Scarlet Letter' "There are two representative works of American art which come as near perfection as, perhaps, it is granted man to bring his achievements. One is the mysterious figure by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Grief, which keeps vigil at a woman's tomb in Washington. The other is the novel, The Scarlet Letter." Nathaniel Hawthorne was a descendant of a family that had settled in New England in 1630. New England life changed rapidly during the life of the author of."'The Scarlet Letter." (1804-1864) The Puritan tradition, characterized by intense religious feeling, yielded to new economic, intellectual, and religious influences. The New England writers of this period, Longfellow, Emerson, Thoreau, Lowell, and Holmes were part of the new spirit. Hawthorne, a child of sollitude, was untouched by the new spirit; he was still part of the old Puritan tradition. Nathaniel Hawthorne began early to walk arm in arm with solitude. Madame Hawthorne withdrew from the world at the death of her husband. In the shadowy house of the Hawthorne's the mother lived in retirement in her room. In another chamber her two daughters lived in retirement. And in another room a lame boy lingered, reading and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thinking in silence. At the age of seventeen Nathaniel Hawthorne entered Bowdoin College. His college friends were Longfellow and Franklin Pierce (later President of the United States). The spiritual loneliness continued but the silence was broken when the Puritan laid bare his thoughts in the form of fiction. The early literary works of Hawthorne were well received especially "Twice Told Tales." A clerical position in the custom office of the port of Boston helped the lean returns.
From the literary activity.
Upon his marriage to Sophia Peabody, Hawthorne settled in the Old Manse at Concord, Massachusetts. '"Mosses From An Old Manse," "The Scarlet Letter," 'The House of Seven Gables," and "The Blithesdale Romance" are the chief literary products that followed. Recognition, national and international, was given generously to the author during his lifetime. The novel, "The Scarlet Letter," has been placed by the most eminent literary critics of the century among. The fifteen great novels of the world. As a great romance it stands apart in the realm of fiction. Hawthorne's idea of romance was "to dream strange things and make them look like truth." The moral nature of man was the intense interest. Of his entire life.
Hawthorne and Tolstoy.: the Russian novelist, are two great novelists of the human soul. The setting of the novel is Puritan New England. The idea of the novel, the' brand of sin, was the result of a particular incident in its author's life.
While employed at the Custom. House, Boston, Hawthorne found a strange article among some old documents. It was the capital letter "A" made of scarlet cloth with traces of gold embroidery now greatly faded and frayed. One of the old documents told the story of the letter LESSON DEPARTMENT and its wearer, Hester Prynne, a Puritan. The novel begins with tragedy, the sin has been committed.
There is no condemnation. The tale moves on marking the processes of expiation until a triumph is reached, a deep abiding calm. The novel handling the most poignant problem in literature becomes almost sacred when dramatized. The literary method of the novel is one of the marvels of literature.
There are but four characters: Hester Prynne, Pearl, Arthur Dimmesdale, and Roger Chillingworth. The tale moves along as a quiet unbroken melody. The outstanding quality of Hawthorne's literary art lies in its verbal richness "that yields echoes that linger in the ear; and wake old echoes in the brain." Few writers have attained such literary perfection and such a mastery of prose as Nathaniel LSE swdhiou Aa. "The Scarlet Letter" ON an early summer morning nearly three centuries ago a throng of men and women crowded around the door of a prison in a small community in New England. The building, a blot on the escutcheon of the Puritan Utopia of New England was as ugly as the cause of its existence save for a rosebush that had grown up near the steps breathing a message of a divine Creator. The door opened and the warden emerged followed by Hester Prynne, a tall dark woman with classic features. On the breast of her gown was a scarlet letter "A" embroidered in gold thread. In her arms she carried a babe of three months.
Hester was taken to the village square and placed on the public scaffold to receive her sentence. A thousand condemning eyes and bitter tongues added to her ignominy. The pastor of the community, Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, noted for his eloquence 563 and religious fervor was exhorted to obtain a confession from Hester. He pled for a confession, urging her to "Be not silent from any mistaken pity and tenderness for him.
What can thy silence do for him except it tempt him to add hypocrisy to sin.
Take heed how thou deniest to him?who, perchance hath not the courage to grasp it for himself?the bitter, but wholesome, cup that is now presented to thy lips."
Hester answered him, "I will not speak." The sentence was given to continue to stand on the scaffold for three hours, to go back to the prison for a term, to wear the scarlet letter for the rest of her life. Before Hester left the scaffold she saw on the outskirts of the crowd Roger Chillingworth, the man she had married in her native village in Old England.
Fixing his gaze upon her the man, unknown to any person in the village, challenged her to secrecy.
That night when back in the prison cell, Hester became seriously distraught through the events of the day. The jailer brought Roger Chilllingworth, who was at the prison attending to the matter of his ransom from the Indians, to the hysterical woman.
Alone with his patient he explained his appearance in the village. Sending Hester ahead of him to the new world he had arrived on a vessel to be immediately captured by the Indians. Now familiar with the properties of medicinal herbs and having a knowledge of physical science he was going to remain in the community as a physician.
Hester admitted her wrong to her husband, but refused to reveal her partner's name.
Chillingworth enjoined Hester to secrecy of their relationship, and announced his intention of finding the man who had wronged them both: "Thou wilt not reveal his name? Not the less he is mine. He bears no letter 564 of infamy wrought into his garment, as thou dost, but I shall read it on his heart. Yet fear not for him!
Think not that I shall interfere with Heaven's own method of retribution, or, to my own loss, betray him to the grip of human law. Let him live! Let him hide himself in outward honour, if he may! Not the less he shall be mine!" Hester Prynne's term of confinement at an end, she went to live on the outskirts of the village. By degrees, the skill of her needlework became known, Hester was able to support herself and the baby, Pearl.. All her superfluous means she used for charity. The little child was an elfish creature with strange fancies and a protesting conscience. To Hester she became a beneficent influence. Arthur Dimmesdale continued his work with redoubled zeal, growing in power and influence. In time the minister became ill; his form grew emaciated, he was often observed to put his hand over his heart, indicative of pain. Roger Chillingworth, now established as a physician, attached himself to the minister as his medical advisor.
Later the two men lived together. On an obscure night in May, Arthur Dimmesdale, suffering and spent, wandered to the village scaffold. As he stood alone where Hester had stood, a childish laugh pealed forth. Hester, accompanied by Pearl, was returning from Governor Winthrop's deathbed. "Come up hither, Hester, thou and little Pearl," said the minister. "Ye have both been here before, but I was not with you.
Come up hither once again, and we will stand all three together." As all stood on the scaffold Pearl pointed her finger towards Roger Chillingworth who came forth and suggested that for the sake of his health Dimmesdale should go home at once. Hester, shocked at the physical condition of Dimmesdale, knew him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be the victim of her husband's threat. Now she had a new source of anxiety.
Strengthened by years of trial she felt stronger to cope with the diabolical Chillingworth who had wronged her.
Meeting him on his way to the woods for herbs she begged him to refrain from the wicked torture of Dimmesdale, but in vain.
Pearl was now seven years of age.
Many times of late she had asked her mother the meaning of the scarlet letter, and why she wore it. The words brought added suffering to the anxious Hester.
Hester decided to acquaint Dimmesdale with the plans of Chillingworth.
Knowing that the minister was visiting some Indian converts she planned to meet him in the woods on his return journey.
When the two met, Dimmesdale asked in despairing tones, "Hast thou found peace, Hester?" For the first time Hester was fully sensible of the deep injury for which she was responsible to this unhappy man in not protecting him from the malevolent Chillingworth.
Sitting side by side on the trunk of a fallen tree they together met the gloomy future: There was an escape, the broad pathway of the sea to their native land. The broken spirit of Dimmesdale had not strength or courage to accept the plan. 'Thou shalt not go alone," answered Hester. Little Pearl returning from her gambol in the woods was surprised at the minister's presence.
Hester said, "Come thou and entreat his blessing. He loves thee, little Pearl, and loves thy mother, too. In the days to come he will walk hand in hand with us." The fateful interview came to a close. A ray of sunshine, a glow of strange brightness came to the troubled heart of the minister as the next days passed.
With anxiety he awaited word from Hester concerning the