[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Elizabeth Gurney Fry and Prison Reform (For Fourth Week in November)]

Social Service ELIZABETH GURNEY FRY AND PRISON REFORM (For Fourth Week in November) 1. A STRANGE PRISON SCENE ONE of the most dramatic scenes in the history of prison life is connected with the name of Elizabeth Gurney Fry, wife, mother, and prison reformer. It was in Newgate Prison.
Newgate was in London, England, and was built in the early thirteenth century and demolished in 1902. At the time of Mrs. Fry, however, it was at its height. The scene we are speaking of occurred in 1813, in that part of Newgate called the "Untried Female Ward."
Inside and outside, Newgate was a hideous place.
Perhaps the inside was the worse.
There were at this time three hundred and fifty women confined here, with about fifty children belonging to them. All were in filthy rags; they slept on the floor, without beds or bedding. In appearance they resembled savages.
Food of a very poor sort was furnished by the government; and it played havoc with the children, who suffered and pined under the prison fare.
Connected with the prison, strange to say, was a bar, where the inmates might slake their thirst.
Whenever these women could beg, borrow, or steal any money, they spent it either at the bar or in gambling. A new arrival with any money had to "stand treat."
There was no one to keep order there but a man and a boy; for the warden, or jailer, never entered the place except when he had to.
When visitors came to the grating, the women crowded near, to beg for money for drink.
Later a double grating was provided, whereupon the women fastened wooden spoons on long sticks, which they thrust through to the spectators.
Says one of these spectators: "Thus they remained in an unchecked condition of idleness, riot, and vice of every description. The women of the lowest sort?the very scum both of the town and the country?filthy in person, disgusting in their habits, and ignorant, not only of religious truth, but of the most familiar duties of common life." One day in January, 1813, four LESSON DEPARTMENT women, all members of the Quaker faith, entered the prison, to see what they could do to help the prisoners.
Some women were to be executed for crimes they had committed. It was a cold and bitter day, and the suffering of the women prisoners and the half-hundred children went to the hearts of these ladies. One of these was Elizabeth Fry. In her journal she says: "Yesterday we were some hours with the poor female felons, attending to their outward necessities.
Before we went away dear Anna Buxton uttered a few words of supplications, and very unexpectedly I did also. I heard weeping, and I thought they seemed much softened. A very solemn quiet was observed. It was a striking scene, the poor people on their knees round us in their very deplorable condition." Mrs. Fry must have made an imposing figure, for she was tall, stately, elegant, full of fine womanly vigor, both of mind and body. She was thirty-three years old. 2. DeTaits oF Mrs. Fry's LIFE Elizabeth Fry was born in 1780, and died in 1845. Her father, "a remarkably handsome man," was John Gurney; her mother, who was not considered at all intellectual, was Catherine Bell. The Gurneys were Quakers, but not "plain Quakers" ?by which is meant, they did not dress in the peculiar garb of the Society and use "thee" and "thou" in their conversation. Elizabeth, the '"dove-like Betsy," says this of herself in her girlhood: "I believe I had a name only for being obstinate, for my nature had a strong tendency that way, and I was disposed to a spirit of contradiction, always ready to see things a little differently from others, and not willing to yield my sentiments to them."" And here is the picture of Elizabeth's girlhood by her sister, Catherine: 567 "She had more genius than any one from her retiring disposition gave her credit for in her earlier days. She had tender feelings, especially towards her parents, to whom she was the most loving and obedient of any of their children. She was gentle in look and manner, and pleasing in person; though she had not Rachel's glowing beauty, yet some thought her quite attractive. She disliked learning languages, and was somewhat obstinate in her temper, except towards her mother. "After we were left alone, her aversion to learning was a serious disadvantage to her; and though she was quick in natural talent, her education was very imperfect and deficient.
Enterprise and benevolence were the two predominant features of her character, and wonderfully did these dispositions afterwards unfold under the influence of religion. "In contemplating her remarkable and peculiar gifts, I am struck with the development of her character and the manner in which the qualities, considered faults when she was a child, became virtues, and proved in her case of the most important efficacy in her career of active service, Her natural timidity was, I think, in itself the means of acquiring the opposite virtue of courage, through the transforming power of the divine grace, which stamped the endowment in her with a holy moderation and nice discretion that never failed to direct it aright. Her natural obstinacy, the only failing in her temper ag a child, became the finely-tempered decision and firmness which enabled her to execute her project for the good of others.
What in her childhood was something like cunning, ripened into the most uncommon penetration, long-sightedness, and skill in influencing the minds of others. "There wag more timidity and scrupulousnesg in her early than in her mature religion, more of sectarian and peculiar view; but as her experimental knowledge of the gospel advanced, her sympathies became enlarged, and the line into which she was drawn by her public engagements taught her in the most noble and catholic spirit to acknowledge the truth under every form and modification. She became a living illustration of St. Paul's description of charity, few seeming to partake so abundantly of the glorious liberty of the children of God." In her eighteenth year Elizabeth was converted to religion. Before 568 that she had taken religion rather lightly, disliking the meetings held in Goat's Lane. At one of these services the story of Abraham about to offer up his son as a sacrifice so horrified the girl that she thereafter dreaded to go to the place. But in her eighteenth year a Mr. William Savery, an American friend, visited the town. Mr.
Savery had "an arresting voice.' At one of the meetings where he preached Elizabeth was so deeply moved that she wept? an uncommon thing with her. At her request her father obtained an invitation for her to dine with the minister at her uncle's. On the way home afterward Betsy astonished the family by weeping all the way. The next day Mr.
Savery ate dinner with the Gurneys, when he predicted "a high and important calling" for Elizabeth. 'From that day," we are told, "her love of the world and of pleasure seemed gone." It was after she had received these powerful impressions through religion that she went to London. She had given up dancing, much to the disappointment of her sisters, and devoted herself to a study of the Bible.
Nothing her sisters could do was of any avail to get her to take up her old habits of thought and conduct. Yet when she went on a trip to London, she attended the theater, where she saw Hamlet and Bluebeard on the stage, and had her hair dressed, which made her "feel like a monkey." For a time also she became a "plain Quaker," and used "thee" and "thou" in her speech with others. Later, however, she '"emancipated herself from these restrictions."
About this time, when she went on a tour through England and Wales, with her family, she met Deborah Darley, a famous Friend, who proph