[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Gardens on the Porter]

Sometimes it is tolerance To some-??ambition or love. Old age is the unity of parts Which makes a work of art If our key-piece is eternal love From the fountain of our heart., Gardens on the Roof By Elizabeth Cannon Porter YOUNG business woman Are for her particular "Castle in Spain" a garden in England. She wrote out a description of an English garden such as she wanted and placed it among her most precious papers in her bank vault.
Twenty years later she conceived the idea of making a miniature garden on the roof of a shed that her apartment opened out upon.
With ingenuity and the expenditure of a small sum she evolved quite a lovely garden of rustic seats, gay striped awnings, potted trees and gaudy annuals. It is a delightful place in which to spend an evening and look at the stars while she is waiting for her "garden in England" to materialize.
Some modernistic architects claim that the dwellings of the future like the office buildings now being built, will have flat roofs.
Especially in a southern country can the roof tops be put to practical use. But they also say that snow packed on a flat roof helps to keep the house warm in more inclement climes. ANY are the advantages of roof gardens.
Where land is expensive and space at a premium, they double the utility of the land, allowing the same ground to be used for house and garden purposes.
They are economical, requiring a minimum of water, soil and foliage.
Picturesque and bizarre, they allow one to indulge a taste in Moorish tile, Italian statuary, French balustrades, or Indian pottery.
They offer privacy, in their serene heights, from the gaze of the passer-by.
They are singularly free from droughts and air currents.
Also less infested by insects than the lower levels.
Being high above the surrounding foliage they offer uninterrupted views of mountains, desert, or sea,? as the case may be. In short, they are delightful places in which to bask in the sun in the daytime, or view the stars at night!
They may be equipped with fountains or fireplaces, awnings or pergolas, tea tables for the ladies or sandpiles for the children.
Roofs have also been commandeered for millionaire penthouses, cabarets, summer theaters, dance halls, restaurants, lecture rooms, gymnasiums and conservatories. The futuristic building of a furmiture store has a well-equipped model bungalow on its roof for demonstration purposes. A large department store has its plant nursery on the roof which is transformed into one vast garden. An apartment house which permits children has on its top a high-walled playground equipped with swings and slides.
Hospitals have long utilized roofs for sun-baths and promenades, besides sun parlors for babies.
Tenement roof tops are still decorated with clotheslines, but on other flat roofs one plays croquet and tennis.
Miniature golf was said to have been started on a roof! The shrines of Japan have been moved to the tops of tall buildings to protect them from earthquakes. Besides, before long, people will need flat roofs on which to park the family airplane! TUNE IN ON KSL BLUE MONDAY JAMBOREE 9:00 to 10:00
Mondays Sponsorea by