[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Spare the Harmer]

Spare the Child 
By Mabel S. Harmer The other night I sat at a banquet which began about nine o'clock and ended about eleven due to the number of speeches and entertainment numbers that were interspersed between courses.
Several times during the evening a lovely child of four was placed upon the table to sing. The woman across from me, together with many others, cooed, "How sweet." The woman at my left whispered under her breath, "Barbarous, perfectly barbarous!" I was inclined to agree with the woman on my left. The child sang ten or twelve numbers during the evening, all sentimental love songs that she could not have understood in the least. She was very sleepy and yawned between her songs?but the mother received her child's praises with a pleased smile. Her vanity was gratified and evidently that was what she wanted since the child could not possibly have been receiving any benefit from the performance. It is all too common a thing for a mother or teacher to exploit a talented child for her own gratification.
Mother loves to have her friends 534 tell her how well little Jane sings, dances or recites and if Jane gives an unusual performance it may bring in more pupils for teacher. And what does Jane get out of it? First, she loses her sleep?since most entertainments are held in the evening. Her nervous system probably suffers because it takes most children a long time to overcome the fear caused by suddenly being the center of attraction of numerous eyes.
Later on, as she becomes used to a great deal of praise and attention, she loses much of her charm. A mother proudly told me once that her eight year old daughter had taken part in over one hundred performances during the winter. I tried to be polite in my reply.
From the time the girl was a tiny tot, this mother has spent a great part of her time in having the child trained and seeing that she was kept in the public eyes. She has even gone to the lengths of having her written up for the local papers. As a result the public has been led to expect more of the girl than it will probably ever realize?for while the girl has talent and is highly trained, she lacks the genius of a real artist. SOME years ago, as a young and very foolish teacher of dancing, I had two talented youngsters come to me for instruction. In a short time I presented them to an eager public. Why not? It was good advertising for me?people were very happy to use them as a feature for some performance for charity and their parents were delighted at the adulation the little girls received. And the children? One, an only child, became most dreadfully spoiled and sophisticated. The other, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a daughter of parents of moderate means, became dissatisfied with her home life as she grew older and all but ran away to join a cheap traveling show. I resolved then and there that no matter what kind of prodigies my own children turned out to be, they would be spared the doubtful benefits of performing in public. It was rather too bad to experiment on some one else's children for the sake of my own. Of course, a child is a tremendous attraction at any time and can always "'steal the show" with her adorable ways. It is really too bad to take her out of the limelight? if you are considering the audience. But why consider the audience?
What is the use then, you may ask, of training children in the fine arts if their light is to be kept hidden under a basket?
There really is much to be gained in developing a child's talent aside from performing in public. First, there is the development that the child receives and her ability to appreciate the arts as she learns more about them.
There is the very real enjoyment that a child receives from being able to dance, or sing, or play even if there isn't another soul in the world to enjoy it besides herself.; There is abundant opportunity for her to perform at home, with a group of other children, at school or before an audience composed of children. As she grows older most of these objections are eliminated and she may if she desires, display her talent and training before an adult audience. But until that time?spare the child from the ill effects of appearing in public. if I would give mothers a few ideas on how to be better wives. She said she was trying to be a good mother but she felt sure that the wife was becoming somewhat submerged.
This is true to a great extent, and a woman may be a very good mother yet be a very poor wife. I sent questionnaires to husbands of various vocations, ages, temperaments and religions and here are the results: Two questions were asked and I have tabulated the answers using the terms used by the husbands.
Some may seem interchangeable but I have classified them this way for clarity.
First question: What. Do you consider your wife's finest trait?
Love of home and family 24, Loyalty 18, Unselfishness 11, Courage 8, Even disposition 6, Dependability 6, Sincerity 4.
Second question: What characteristics do you most admire in women?
Love of home and family 42, Loyalty, Faithfulness, Fidelity 33, Poise, Charm, Grace 28, Even disposition 19, Femininity 16, Physical attractiveness 16, Intelligence 14, Co-operation, Foresight, Broadmindedness 13, Honor, Virtue, Purity 12, Sincerity 11, Affection 10, Charity 10, Courage 10, Cleanliness 9, Efficiency 6, Patience 6. Now you can check up on yourself, if you compare favorably with this list I congratulate you, if not so good, "It is never too late to learn." MOTHERS and fathers should meet their child's principal and A READER of this page asked By Holly Baxter Keddington teacher so there is a feeling of cooperation between home and school. The teacher will be able to do more for a child if she feels her efforts are understood in the home.
Many children have peculiar characteristics or physical handicaps that need explaining. How much kinder to both teacher and child if an explanation is made instead of waiting for some trouble to expose the defects. A parent need only visit school for a short time to realize that teachers deserve far more tolerance than they receive. SAGES predict an early, rainy fall so I am suggesting these bits of amusement for the shut-in days. Cut funny-pages between lines, stack the pictures in order and sew on left edge with large stitches.
Many weeks "Funnies" can be packed in a shoe box and put away for other bad days. Scrap-books of wall paper, card-board or oil-cloth 10 or 12 inches wide, for pictures, drawings and pressed flowers may be the first step in developing an artist, decorator or what not. I AM asked how I read so much. One makes time to read just as one makes time for almost everything. Maybe I read when I should be doing many other things.
Reading is both my uplift and my downfall, for I have been spanked and teased for reading out of turn, but on I go, reading every chance I get. For the most and best reading in a condensed form read "Reader's Digest." It is in most libraries or may be had for 25c per copy or $3.00 per year. A Lonely Grave By Mary Whiting Berry FIFTY-TWO years ago my grandmother Mary E. Whiting's family, started by covered wagon to Utah from Arizona. At House Rock, just thirty miles north of the Grand Canyon bridge, they halted their journey to dig a lonely grave and place in it the young daughter May Whiting, nineteen years of age. For many years the rough cowboys and ranchers have paused to repair the old picket fence.
Years ago, when President Cluff of the B. Y. U.
Made a trip into old Mexico, his company passed by the lonely grave and he wrote back to my grandmother about the visit, and she answered him. He seemed to think she should be removed from this lonely spot, but not so with the relatives.
After thirty-two years we attended a reunion at the grave to place a new granite rock and cement monument.
People wondered why this caravan of cars were going into the desert. It took our grandmothers five weeks to travel on the long road while this new generation came in a day, two hundred of them, from Idaho, Utah, California, and Arizona.
That lonely spot was a town for three days. Aunt May seemed indeed to be with us. The spot was sacred and never did the living and dead seem to draw so near together. It was like we had imagined in the great beyond on the morning of the resurrection day.
Sisters who had not seen each other for thirty years were reunited over this lonely grave, and men and boys worked feverishly to finish the beautiful mound, old men and also brothers of the one dead, were even there on invalid beds.
Tears were, shed as if the grave had been made today, instead of fifty-two years ago. The Shrine in the Wasteland By Bertha A, Kleimman There's a lonely mound in the wasteland, In the heart of the desert plain, A grave that lies out in the twilight And under the falling rain; Like a shrine to a loved one's memory, It stands in the solitude, And the night winds whisper above it Like a prayer of beatitude.
There the monolith spire at House Rock Like a sentinel guards the plain, Like the tower of a vast cathedral Like the shaft of a temple fane.
There the shouldering bulwark watches And tempers the winds for her, As the shifting sands of the desert Drift over her sepulchre. It was there in the early Maytime. In the May of her sweet young age, That Death's angel stood in the valley, And halted our pilgrimage, And sweet May like a May time blossom, Like a lily smote from its stem? Lay down in the heart of the prairies And we left her to slumber with them. There's a sweeter calm in the wasteland, There's a hush in the noon-day glare, There's a kinder gleam in the starlight Since we planted that dear shrine there; There's a tender glow in the sunset, And the dawn like a crested wave Floods over the desolation To hallow that lonely grave. The years have been long since we left her To sleep on the hillside alone, But Old House Rock is staunch in his vigil? And dearer and dearer has grown That desolate mound in the wasteland, And many the travelers who tread, To strew their wild flowers above her And tell of the lovely one dead. THE SHRINE IN THE WASTELAND Today we have gathered around her. As sad recollections entwine? Her kinsmen, her home folk, her loved ones,. As pilgrims come home to their shrine, And our hearts shall be tender and fonder For the tear drops bedimming our eyes, And our love shall be truer and stronger As we mark the dear place where she lies. God temper the wind and the tempest, God's watch-care be over the spot, Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson The love of wholesome books is the basis of much good. The desire for reading good books has its inception from the nurture given the seedling which sprouts in every child's mind.
Each youngster has as active interest in the material of which books are made.
This interest expresses itself in various ways: some children have imaginary playmates; others have wonderful fancied experiences.
Mothers especially have the privilege of molding this wayward fantasy into a worthwhile faculty.
Controlled imagination becomes vision.
Vision enables the one who possesses it to project himself into situations and to perceive the results of certain actions without having actually to experience the consequences of' bad ones.
Mothers through wise reading to their families can cultivate the right, happy vision?not only for the children but also for themselves and frequently for the fathers.
Habit is an important part of reading. A certain time and place should be selected and never deviated from for even one day.
Generally speaking, the best time is right after the evening meal and be537 As the Maytimes are merged in the ages, And the races of men are forgot.
Sleep on in the heart of the prairies, Your slumber is safe in their care, And the Gardens of God are the brighter Since the star of your presence is there. ?Inscribed in loving tribute to May Whiting, who died May 15, 1882, and was buried in House Rock valley, age twenty years. fore bed time.
Reading will act as a halfway stop between the violent exercise of normal children and the absolute inactivity of sleep. The children can draw up their favorite chairs or curl up on the floor near mother. The light should be a good one and should be so adjusted that there is no glare for either mother or children. Mother's chair should be comfortable. Her voice should be natural and yet expressive.