[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 84 | Special Feature | Oakland | Temple Dedicated]
[Oakland Temple Dedicated]

They will have specialized religious instruction and constant opportunity to mingle, make friendships, and work in a variety of activities with other young Latter-day Saints. That Seminaries and Institutes of Religion are under the direction of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve? All instructors are members of the Church and are selected because of their knowledge of the gospel, ability to teach, desire to work with young people, and general faithfulness. That a Latter-day Saint Seminary is organized for spiritual guidance and instruction of young people of high school age? Students participate in scripture and Church history studies, singing, praying, giving talks and reports, leadership training, plus occasional parties and outings. That Latter-day Saint Institutes of Religion are organized near college and university campuses to give college students a spiritual, social, and cultural setting with a Latter-day Saint flavor? They are not a repetition of Seminary, but advanced courses are offered in scripture, Church history, leadership training, and other activities particularly suited to the college level. Deseret Clubs and Lambda Delta groups enrich the social and cultural experiences of Institute students. That there is no tuition charge for Seminary or Institute — only a small activity and book fee? Graduation diplomas and special certificates are granted to those who complete the prescribed courses. That there need be no loss of scholastic achievement because of religious activity? Seminary and Institute students often become the academic and social leaders in high school and college classes. That attendance at Seminary and Institute encourages increased Church activity, trains young people for leadership, and builds testimonies of the gospel? That a larger percentage of young people who attended Seminary, Institute, and Church Schools go on missions and marry in the temple than do they who do not attend these classes? The percentage increases in proportion to the number of classes taken. 92 That it aids missionary work? Mission Presidents say they find new missionaries with Seminary and Institute training are able to handle missionary work sooner than those who have not had this experience. That the students appreciate these classes? Many Seminary and Institute students are saying: Seminary has helped me to be a better leader in school, as well as contributing to my spiritual growth. Seminary is the start of my day — it just doesn't seem right without it. I have made many new friends in Seminary who live and believe as I do. I have a testimony of the truthfulness of this gospel, and I can accredit it to the Seminary and Institute program. In Seminary and Institute I can find an answer to my questions and a thirst for more gospel knowledge. Seminary and Institute have helped me to live a better life and to set a higher standard of living.