MY DEAR MRS. GREEN RICHARDS:—
	Will you permit Ever Thine to address a
few words in behalf of the young ladies
through the columns of your paper? Of
course it is not to be presumed that the
gentlemen will read it, so she is quite safe
in saying whatever she pleases about them.
And, girls, you must not tell any of your
beaux or brothers, of some suggestions Ever
Thine may make before she finishes this
article; for if she had cared to let them
know her sentiments on certain points, she
could have spoken through the "Evening
News" or "Morning Herald" more than
a month ago, when her indignation was first
aroused upon the subject of which she is
about to treat. Ever Thine was provoked
by reading a little item in "Home Affairs"
in the EXPONENT for June 15th, at finding
therein illustrated the inexcusable ignorance
of gentlemen who are styled "sensible."
Reference is made to the following:
	"A lady of this city speaks of having
accidentally overheard a group of sensible
gentlemen, commenting on the taste dis-
played and the waste indulged in by a 
portion of the 'coming women.' They 
counted over their wages and then the cost
of supporting a wife, and concluded they
could not marry."
	Now, dear editor, does it occur to your
mind that so foolish a conclusion could
be arrived at by gentlemen of good sense?
It looks as though they had eyes that could
only see the vain and silly ones among
women, that's certain. Concluded “they”
could not marry because there were girls in
the world, and in this city even, whose
extravagance would consume more than
their—the young gentlemen’s—income! It
is no more absurd to infer that because there
are men, and many of them, who smoke
cigars, drink whisky, and allow the women
folks to support their families, that all men
do, or would do the same, than it is to sup-
pose the leading trait in the character of
every woman, to be vanity and love of dis-
play, because too many women give occasion
by their manner of dress and conversation,
for the opinion to be formed that they care
for nothing else. But Ever Thine knows
better than to believe either one. Your
paper says farther, as if in commendation of
the superior taste and judgement of these
stayed gentlemen:
	"Besides, it is disgusting to them to see
so little sense manifested by beings who
should be intelligent."
	Well, admitting that the dress of certain
female classes now-a-days is most disgusting,
is that any reason why a man should be
disgusted with all woman kind and conclude
not to marry? Why don't more of these
[new column]
"sensible," modesty loving specimens of
masculine propriety, look after the genuine,
whole souled, pure minded, marriageable
women, who are waiting on every hand for
"some one to love, and to love them”—for
husbands? Do they know that a portion of
the censure that falls upon many a lovely,
virtuous girl, who meets the misfortune to
be wooed and wiled away by some villainous
wretch, wearing the appearance of a man,
and a gentleman, is often due them for their
calm indifference and indisposition to marry?
Girls will be courted and women will marry.
They must have something to love. This
element is as innate with them as is the
instinctive clinging to life. If some have
resolution sufficient to control, and, perhaps
deaden this native inhabitant of the heart,
some also can become so distracted as to
commit suicide. And as almost any style of 
living will be generally endured, ere the
latter is resorted to, so also an inferior
marriage will often be preferred to no
marriage at all.
	But Ever Thine need not sermonize the
girls, who know every word she has written
to be truth so far as it extends. She would
exhort them, though, to be wise, and
patient and charitable; and while the young
men who might be worth having stand aloof
and consider no woman near enough perfect
for them, to let such straightforward fellows
choose their own way, but not to throw
themselves away on wine-bibbers or idle
"good-for-nothings." A prudent girl need
have no fears but that she will marry well,
if she only waits in quiet trust. By and
bye a great many of these "sensible" young
men will find there are no wives for them,
for they would not marry fashionable but-
terflies if they could, and could not if they 
would, and all the other girls will have tired
of waiting and married in plurality. There,
how's that for an indignant school girl?
