FACTS AND FIGURES.
				——
	BASS, the English Brewer, pays yearly
$700,000 to the railroads for transportation.
	MOSES Dupont, of Holyoke, Mass., and
his twenty-three brothers, have between
them 322 children. 
	THERE are in Chicago's new hotel—the
Grand Pacific—59 flights of stairs, 38 miles
of wire, 999 windows and 1,070 doors.
	THE Pope and Czarina, and the Pope and
ex-Queen Isabella of Spain have been inter-
changing elegant and valuable presents. 
	ABOUT 2,000 years ago Ptolemaeus Philo-
pater built a ship at Alexandria 420 feet
long, 57 broad, and 72 feet high. Tonnage,
6,445 tons.
	A RUSSIAN lady, Lydia Rodelrena, has
given $40,000 to endow a department for
medical instruction for women in St. Peters-
burg Academy of medicine.
	The Episcopalians of Chicago are building
two new churches, respectively named St.
John's and Trinity, at a cost of $150,000 for
the former and $175,000 for the latter.
	THE Danbury News has reached a circu-
lation of eleven thousand copies, four thou-
sand of which are sold through the New
England News Compay, of Boston.
	IT is a notable fact that the first victim
of cholera in Indianapolis was a bar tender
who wore a diamond pin, and had taken other
precautions against the plague.
	AT Des Moines, the liquor case of Mrs.
Priestly against Hierb has been settled by
Hierb giving her a homestead valued at
$1,500 as damages for selling liquor to her
husband.
	STATISTICS show Georgia to be the leading
Southern Baptist State, both in respect to
contributions and numbers, one in every
eight of the population, it is said being a
Baptist.
	THE Washington dispatches now say
there were certainly nearly one hundred
thousand dollars of the bonds that were
stolen from Vice President Colfax, last
winter, and afterwards recovered.
	A DECISION which will have an important
bearing upon the rights of passengers in
street cars, has just been rendered in the
General Term of the New York Superior
Court, in the case of a suit for damages.
	VERY laconic is the report of Captain
Chaw, of the London Fire Brigade, regard-
ing the destruction of the Alexandria Palace
by fire. It is as follows; "A brick building,
about 900 by 40 feet, burned out and the
roof off."
	MR. John McAllister, who lives a short
distance from Dover, Maine, reports that on
the 5th of June there was a snow-bank at 
least four feet deep on the south side of a
hill near his dwelling. He has lived on his
farm fifty-seven years and never before saw
snow upon the ground in June.
	THE leading citizens of Portland, Oregon,
have raised a purse of $5,400 in gold, and
presented it to Mrs. Canby. General Canby
is said to have died poor, leaving his widow
with nothing but a pension of thirty dollars
per month. The charities of the deceased
general are said to have been without stint.
	THE manufacture of rails by a new sys-
tem, which does away with manual labor to
a great extent, is to be carried on by a rail
mill which is now being erected at Louis-
ville, Ky., at a cost of $500,000. In the
process of making rails the iron passes
through thirteen sets of rollers, without a halt
and is turned over five times for side rolling.
The iron is taken from the heating furnace
and transformed into a rail in half a minute.


