WOMEN IN AUSTRIA.

	﻿The correspondent of the Baltimore
“American” says, “I have before alluded to
the fact that women perform the hardest
kind of laboring work in Germany, but was
not prepared for the sights I have witnessed
to-day in Vienna. In America, mixing
mortar and carrying the hod is considered
such hard work that few white men can be
found willing to undertake it at the present
day. An immense building near our hotel,
occupying a whole block, is in course of
erection, on which not less than 400 persons
are employed, fully 200 of whom are women.
All the hard laboring work is done by
women, such as making and carrying mor-
tar in buckets on their heads to the work-
men handling the brick. They are not
allowed a moment’s leisure, several overseers
being on guard to keep them constantly in
motion. We found the same proportion of
women at work on all the new buildings,
and there must be many thousands of them
to-day doing this species of laboring work
in Vienna. They are both young, middle-
aged and old, but all seem to be strong and
healthy. At dinner-time they swarm into
the shops to purchase a piece of brown bread
and fat bacon and a mug of beer, and eat
their dinners sitting on the curbstones.
Their wages are one florin, or 48 cents per
day, and I am assured by a gentleman resi-
dent here that most of them sleep about the
buildings on shavings, or in barns or sheds,
having no homes. Amidst all the splendor
and wealth of this great city, with its mil-
lion of inhabitants, there is, perhaps, more
destitution, want and suffering than in all
the cities in America. Still, we frequently
hear some of our countrymen praising and
preferring the governments of Europe.
Whilst viewing this scene, the Emperor and
Empress, with his staff and outriders,
glittering in gold and precious stones,
dashed along the Ringstrasse, on the way to
the palace, whilst a short distance off stand
the royal stables, a magnificent structure,
covering at least four blocks of ground, as
large as Franklin square, the meanest ani-
mal of which is better cared for than these
women. It is not to be wondered at that of
the 8,000 births annually in the lying-in-
hospital in Vienna, less than 500 are of
children born in wedlock.


