EDITORIAL NOTES.
	TO “KILL time” without danger of disad-
vantage to self, use it up.
	TO GET rid of despondency, perplexity,
and the “blues,” think much of others but
as little as possible of self.
	NO WONDER brooks and rivers can afford
to dance and laugh constantly, and always
sing merry tunes—they have no "up-hill"
work to do.
	PHILADELPHIA has had a lightning
stroke which demolished some of the build-
ings and injured several inhabitants. Such
strikes as that are more to be feared than
those of desperate laborers.
	HIS ROYAL Highness, Prince Alfred
Earnest Albert, Duke of Edinburgh, and
second son of Her Majesty Queen Victoria,
it is announced is to marry a Russian Prin-
cess, the Grand Duchess Mary E. Alexand-
rovona.  And why not?  The Prince is
twenty-nine years old, and his "Mother” has
given her consent.
	SINCE the formation of the Worcester
StateNormal School,Massachusetts,four years
ago, forty-four young ladies have received
diplomas from that school. Forty years
ago, it would have seemed almost an
absurdity for a woman to make an attempt
to graduate at a high school. But woman
advances to the front.
	THE RAVAGES of the cholera in Evanston
Indiana, have been so intolerable as to
nearly depopulate the town, every one flee-
ing from the scourge who could, and vast
numbers perishing, from it. Out of some
large families, it is reported that not more
than two members have been spared alive.
Sympathy is awakened by such suffering
among fellow creatures.
	ONE OF the saddest stories contained In
modern history, is going the rounds of the
newspaper press, concerning a beautiful
maniac murderess of New York, known as
Kate Stoddard, but whose real name is
Lizzie L. King. She is said to have been
united by a mock marriage to Charles Good-
rich, who, after a few years, deserted her and
their baby. Maddened by his cruelty and
neglect, she is supposed to have fired the
fatal shot which ended his earthly career:
yet there hangs a mystery over the circum-
stance of the murder in which a man ly the
name of Roscoe is involved. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA thus answers an address
of the Commons, showing Her Majesty’s
queenly views and womanly feelings on the
subject of international arbitration; “I have
received the address of my faithful Com-
mons, praying that I would be graciously
pleased to instruct my principal secretary to
enter into communication with foreign
powers with a view to further improve in-
ternational law, and establish a general and
permanent system of arbitration.  I am
sensible of the force of the philanthropic
motive dictating that address. I have at all
times desired to extend the practice of
closing international controversies by their
submission to impartial friends, and to
encourage the establishment of rules in-
tended for the equal benefit of all. I shall
continue to pursue a similar course with
due regard to time and opportunity, where-
ever it is likely to be attended with advan-
[-]age."
[new column]
	THERE IS a lady in Plymouth by the name
of Southworth, who lately celebrated her
ninety-sixth birthday; and who in all her
life has neve employed a doctor or known
what it was to be seriously ill. She has
ever entertained a religious horror of idle-
ness, and still works busily for others as well
as herself; having this season spaded and
planted her own garden. This worthy old
lady has evidently been a prudent and wise
laborer, neither going too far and overwork-
ing herself, nor allowing her health to
decline for want of employment—following
none of the extremes so common to the
women of to-day.
	“THE BALANCE,” a woman’s paper pub-
lished in Chicago says in its issue for July:
“The editor of the Salt Lake City EXPONENT
was married on the 16th ult. We are not
informed whether she is Mrs. No. I or No.
12.  If it is a matter of congratulation, we
congratulate her.” We are pleased with
this opportunity for stating that had our
number, in entering upon the matrimonial
stage been Mrs. 2nd 3rd or 12th, we should
have been as prould and happy in acknow-
ledging the same as we are now in ac-
quainting our Chicago friend with the fact
that our position happens to be that of Mrs.
No. 1,—just the next thing to 0. But we
are satisfied—there must be No. 1’s, and
there must be 0’s too, but—poor things!
We hope that does not touch any of our
Chicago sister contemporaries, but are not
informed. Now, we suppose “it” is “a
matter of congratulation,” and that we may
accept the compliment.
	ENGLISH ARTISTS, it appears, are some
times badly treated, notwithstanding the
celebrity of that country for its appreciation
of poetic genius and artistic skill. An
enthusiastic writer on the subject says:
“The Royal Academicians distribute their
favors with a sublime disregard of merit,
and it is half suspected that they judge of
pictures by their knuckles rather than their
eyes. It is said that many of the most
eminent artists in England have had their
pictures rejected by the hanging committee.
Armstrong, Henry Moore, Hennessy, Story,
and even Whistler, are said to be among
the sufferers this year, and if such shall
prove to be the case, we shall have a row
in artistic circles such as has never been
known before. The Royal Academy has
not a history calculated to inspire great
confidence. Some of the magnificent pic-
tures of Turner, which have been eagerly
bought within the last year or so, at from
one thousand to five thousand pounds were
rejected by the Academy; others were badly
hung in the old darkened apartments; but
when the Academicians have been taunted
with thus throwing out of the music so long
frozen in the air by their neglect, they have
replied to the public that they allowed these
pictures to the number of two hundred and
fifty, to be taken away from the walls
because he could not get the small sums at
which he held them, until, during the last
years of his life, Ruskin proclaimed him a
great genius. However, the public affirm
that a royal academy is but a burden, unless
it lead the public taste; whereas, in the case
of Turner, David Cox, and others, it has
been, a follower of the public.  Nor has its
recent history been much better. It never
[new column]
recognized the genius of the late Georg 
Mason until he was dying. And recently
one of the most powerful, though very rea-
listic landscape painters (William Wilson),
died, whose works should have made him
an academician, but will now be sold to
maintain his family.”

	DRESS REFORM is occupying much of the
attention of sound minded women in differ-
ent parts of the world, and different opinions
on the subject are put forth for the consid-
eration of the masses. While some of our
American ladies hold that a woman’s cloth-
ing should, like that of a man’s, be suspended
from the shoulders, a lady in Manchester,
England, writes thus:  “In a man, the
shoulders are the broadest and strongest
parts of his body and his muscular develop-
ment is greatest there. But in a woman,
nature has provided for the burden incident to
womanhood by a great development of the
pelvis arch and surrounding muscles which
are larger than in man.  The center of
muscular and nervous force in a woman lies
in her hips; and weights bearing on the
pelvis arch can be carried more easily than
if they press on any other part of the body.
A woman’s shoulders are weak compared to
those of a man, and the burden of dress laid
upon them would be intolerably oppressive.
I speak from experience, as one whose aim
in dressing is to comply with conventional
requirements at the minimum of inconveni-
ence, and I find that light soft skirts, rest-
ing on the hips and supported by the pelvis
arch, and loose upper clothing that does not
drag from the shoulder or restrict the
freedom of the arms, fulfils the desired
conditions and combines comfort with ele-
gance.” In partial contrariety to this, one
of a committee on dress, of New England
ladies says: “I have said, in referring to our
plan of proceeding, that it seemed to us neces-
sary to define explicitly the evils we deplore,
before seeking their remedies. Of course,
we should all agree that our attire ought
first of all to be healthful; then it should be
beautiful, serviceable, and simple. Tried
by this standard, our present dress is most
unsatisfactory. And, first, it violates health
by its compression of vital parts of the body;
by its weight and the faulty suspension of
this weight; and by the unequal temperature
which it induces. Health would say, “if
your dress is to be tight, let it be tight any-
where but over the region between the
upper, ribs and the hips. If its weight
is to be great, let it hang from the
solid frame work of the shoulders, not from
the sensitive central region where there is
nothing to support it; if any part is to be
overheated, let it be the extremities, and
not this. For here lie the vital organs
whose unimpeded action is essential to your
very life,—the lungs, the heart, the liver,
the stomach and the abdomen, that they
may have the fullest opportunity to expand
and move, they are covered only with loose
flesh and a few moveable bones.” Both
positions are worth reflecting upon, to
women of sense who desire health and
happiness; and the conviction doubtless will
be, of most of them, that the dress should not
be tight, anywhere, and that the weight
suspended from any portion of the body
should be light as possible.


