HOME AFFAIRS.

	Mrs. M. J. Woodward, writing from Foun-
tain Green, Sanpete County, informs us that in
that vicinity good health and a good spirit
generally prevails; the meetings held by the
home missionaries being well attended. Crops,
this season, are going to be light there.
	No Public notice was paid to the Twenty-
sixth Anniversary of the entrance of th[-] Pio-
neers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, by
the people of this city. Yet, due respect was
shown to the never-to-be-forgotten day, as it
was generally observed as a holiday, and passed
off in a peaceful and orderly manner, private
parties, pic-nics and quiet excursions being
indulged in by many, who as formerly, d light
in remembering the “Twenty-Fourth.”
	Ogden made a pleasant demonstration in
honor of the entry of the Pioneers into the val-
ley, 25 years ago, on Thursday, the Twenty-
Fourth ult., a number of denizens from this
city and adjacent settlements participating
There was firing of cannon, hoisting of national
Colors with salute, music and all the prelimin-
aries, followed by an assembling together of
citizens and visitors at Jones’ Grove, where an
entertaining season was spent in the enjoyment
of music, songs, speeches, prayer, etc., and danc-
ing in the afternoon and evening. The hospi-
tality of the good people of Ogden, it may be
remarked, is unsurpassed.
	Two serious accidents have but recently
occurred on the Utah railroads, one on the
Southern, by which Mr. Philip Lewis, of Lehi,
suffered the grievous loss of an arm, the other
on the Northern, at or near Ogden, which was
the cause of a like affliction to an emigrant
lady, just arrived, who, we understand to be
the widowed mother of two or three children.
And both these accidents we are informed were
the results of trying to get on or off the cars
when the trains were in motion. Too great
care cannot be taken by persons in going about
so firy and unscrupulous a steed as the iron
horse; lessons should be gleaned from observa-
tion, and much suffering might be thus avoided.


Remember that a raw egg will clear your
throat of fishbones. Put one in a little hot
wine, add some sugar, and the fishbones
will slip down all the easier. P. S. You
can take the egg, wine and sugar anyhow.
They’re good as a preventive; and you
don’t know what moment you may get a fish
bone in your throat.


