	A PLEA FOR THEIR HOLDING MEETINGS.

Not unfrequently do we hear such expressions
as the following, from the lips of unreflecting
ladies, more especially the young and noncha-
lant. “I think a woman’s place is at home,
looking after her own affairs, instead of being
off at these meetings.”
	However, these thoughts do not appear to
trouble them while they are “somewhere else,”
gossiping, perhaps, or idling precious time
away in some light manner.
	The questions may be propounded with pro-
priety, have such ladies ever attended the
meetings, held hy the Relief Societies and
Retrenchment Associations, in this city and
the settlements throughout the Territory? Have
they any ideas concerning the teachings given,
or the benefits to be derived from the many
wise suggestions made by women of experience
and profundity? Benefits in all forms which
the gaining of understanding comprises. Do
they realize that by attending these meetings,
they may learn in a few moments time, things
that may prove to be of the greatest value to
them at some future period? Or receive some
intimation that may help them out of present
difficulties if they happen to be in them?
	All young children are liable to take cold
and be choked with croup. If a child be so
afflicted whose mother attended the Retrench-
ment meeting where a remedy for it was stated,
that little one is spared the pain of suffocation
for the seemingly long time it would take to
send for “grandma” or “auntie.” For its
mother knows as well as another, that pulver-
ized alum mixed with honey and given to her
child, and a piece of thick brown paper satu-
rated with oil and placed upon the lungs, will
afford it relief. Then, there is so much time,
trouble and suffering, and probably the life of
an infant saved by a mother’s having gone to
meeting. 
	She might have learned so simple a lesson at
home, had some one chanced to acquaint her
with it. But it should be remembered that
while she was learning it at meeting, a hun-
dred others, perhaps, were learning it at the
same time, who otherwise might never have
heard of it.
	“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom.” Does a woman, professing to belong
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, manifest fear of offending the Lord
when she treats lightly the commandments
which He gives for the guidance of His people,
through the mouths of His Prophets? When
cast down and troubled in spirit, can she go to
Him for strength and consolation, with the
same faith she might have enjoyed had she 
joined with her sisters in seeking wisdom from
the only proper source, and given a portion of
her time to instruct and bless others? All may
seem bright and fair with her at times, but it
will not always be so. And when her trials
and temptations come, she can call on others
for aid and sympathy much more graciously
if she has imparted freely of the light with
which she was blest formerly. Or if she has
associated much with intelligent women possess-
ing the Spirit of God and full of integrity,
holding sweet counsel with them, and treasur-
ing up wisdom, she will be better prepared to
sustain herself and to assist others in hours of
adversity.
	Want of time is the excuse made by many
for neglecting these important social duties; but
time is saved more frequently than lost by
observing them.
	“Work! work! work!” has been too long a
motto not clearly understood. Labor is honor-
able in all, but not constant, unmitigated
drudgery, performed with the idea of laying up
treasures and amassing a fortune.
	Application to work is healthful training for
every individual. But there should be a diver-
sity of employment; and there is no better
change of work for woman, than that from
household cares and duties, to social industry,
of an instructive and enlivening character,
such as will aid in all other labors, cheering
and blessing, and quickening all the faculties,
so that after requirements are performed with
greater ease and more satisfaction.


