FLOWERS EOR THE SICK.
				      —
	“Daisy Eyebright,” the lively correspon-
dent of the "Country Gentleman," and the
wife of a physician, writes:
	"It would be selfish in us to cultivate
flowers merely to adorn our own homes, or
to gratify our own love of the beautiful.
The flowers are generous, their fragrance is
not pent up in themselves, but is wafted on
over the tiny current of air, and is shared by
every one who passes by our grounds, or
enters our parlors; and we doubt not that
many wistful eyes admire the bright color-
ings and desire to hold some of them in
their hands as their very own. It is a sad
thing to be sick and disabled from walking
out. It is a great privation to be shut up in 
the house, a feeble, wasting invalid, when
there is so much brightness out of doors, so
much to fill the heart and eye with joy and
happiness. We that rise early and employ
ourselves with daily cares and labors, can
hardly sympathize with those who are
unable to enjoy these privileges, which we
can really never appreciate until they are
lost and gone beyond our recall. And in
every community there are those who
highly prize the green things of the earth'
and yet are not able to enjoy them, but are
forced to struggle for life with pain and
sickness day and night. To such sufferers a
fragrant bunch of flowers comes like a mes-
senger of hope and comfort from the outer
world—even a simple rosebud or a bunch of
pansies is fraught with a blessing, and such
slight tokens of remembrance will brighten
many a dark hour, and give a cheerful
appearance to many a gloomy room. Far
better than pills and powder, sometimes, are
the bright, sweet flowers of our gardens to
those who are denied many comforts; and
even when their illness is so severe that
only the physician and nurse can enter their
sick room, the lovely, fragrant flowers will
remind our friends that we are mindful of 
their sufferings, and will do all in our power
to alleviate them. Amid the dull array of
phials of medicine, it is almost a blessed
relief to see a few flowers, which can cheer
the patient in his bitter pain; and if death
is the only physician that can heal. the
flowers will speak to the suffer of brighter
skies and purer airs, where no griefs nor
graves are known; and sin and sorrow never
enter. In time of fruit, a luscious peach or
pear, or a glowing bunch of grapes will be
relished by the sick for their own sake, and
also for the givers; for intense gratitude is
often felt for such kind remembrances, such
little tokens of affection and interest. Dear
friends, let us bestow of our abundance not
only upon the sick and suffering, but also on
those who are denied such blessings."


