CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				ST. LOUIS, June 20, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula.—When writing you last,
which was on the ocean, I did not anticipate
either time or opportunity for communica-
tion with you again, while on my way home,
but, in consequence of the extreme piety of
this infidel age, we are in this great, live
city, detained over Sunday. We arrived
here yesterday morning from Kansas, where
we found our youngest brother, whom we
had not seen for more than twenty years—
he was then a boy, now the father of a large
and promising family, and located on a farm
one half mile square, in a beautiful rolling
prarie country, commanding a view both
grand and magnificent, extending as far as
the eye can reach. I think I never saw a
finer or more picturesque landscape scenery,
while the soil is rich and very productive,
situated five miles from Osage Mission, the
R. R. station for that section.
	But more about St. Louis. We, i. e. my
brother Lorenzo and I intended leaving last
evening, but are detained till 10 to night,
the hour admitted as the close of the Sab-
bath, which, despite the sacred rest alloted
the R. R. trains, is decidedly a day of bustle
recreation and hilarity. While writing, my
ears are saluted with almost every sound
imaginable-bands of instrumental music
playing in various directions—the rumble of
street cars, which are loaded to their utmost
capacity, constantly on the track, conveying
gay pleasure seekers to different points—
picnics by land and picnics by water being
a prominent order of the day—groups of
people are promenading the sidewalks, while
processions are marching on the streets; but
the R. R. trains must not profane the Sab-
bath.
	When we left New York, my brother and
I proceeded directly to the place, in the
State of Ohio, where he was born, and where
both were brought up—the place of our
childhood and our youth—also neighboring
towns and countries. I had been absent
thirty-seven years; my brother had returned
once, within that time. Very many of our
relatives and friends have “gone the way
of all the earth” since we left, and every
thing of remembrance has yielded to the
strokes of the battle-ax of changeful Time.

	Our former, loved associates,
		Have mostly pased away;
	While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray.

	We saw Time’s varied traces,
		Were deep on every hand— 
	Indeed, upon the people,
		More mark’d, than on the land.

	The hands that once, with firmness, 
		Could grasp the ax and blade,
	Now move with trembling motion, 
		By strength of nerve decay’d

	The change in form and feature,
		And furrows on the cheek;
	Of time’s increasing volume,
		In plain, round numbers speak, 

	And thus, as in a mirror’s
		Reflection, we were told,
	With stereotyp’d impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Those of our relatives and acquaintances
who remain, received us with affectionate
cordiality—indeed it was one continued
ovation from first to last, through the
counties of Portage, Granga, Cuyahoga and
Loraine, where we went; even children,
born since we left that country, came dis-
tances to see and converse with us, the
former friends of their deceased parents.
Having been so long abroad, we felt anxious
to return home; at the same time, being
anxious to see as many of our friends and
relatives as possible, we visited night and
day—going from place to place in rapid
succession. I am inclined to think that so
much visiting, was never before, done in so
little time.
	We succeeded in gathering many genealo-
gies both of the dead and the living; and,
we think, in many instances, have renewed
friendships—revived and created associa-
tions that will extend into eternity. We
feel that God is with us, and humbly trust
that His blessing will attend our efforts.
					Eliza R. Snow.
	P. S. By mistake, the foregoing failed
of being mailed in St. Louis, and when the
mistake was discovered, it was loo late to
precede our arrival. If you find anything
in it worthy of notice, it is at your disposal.
							E. R. S.


