SPLINTERS.

	Copenhagen is agitated over the presence
of an American woman, who claims con-
nection by marriage, with the royal house
of Denmark and Great Britain......A Mis-
souri Marshal has a young lady in custody
who has for two years, off and on, passed for
a boy. She was arrested for horse stealing,
but her virtue is unquestionable......Taxpay-
ing women of New York have had an
indignation meeting in consequence of the
adverse decision of Judge Hunt in the Susan
B. Anthony case......Rebecca W. Eastbrook,
a well known writer for Harpers Monthly
and other periodicals, died July 11th..........
Victoria Woodhull is convalescent and has
been for some time hard at work again in
the purlieus of high places......The wardrobe
of a theatrical performer in St. Louis was
recently seized and sold on account of a
failure on his part to fulfill a contract for
playing......A number of counties in Ohio,
Indiana, and Illinois have lost by recent
storms as high as $100,000 each......Frank
Walworth has been taken to Sing Sing.......
In Alcoy, Spain, three thousand factory
hands have struck for less hours and higher 
wages......The Lincoln club of New York
has ordered a copy of the bust of Horace
Greeley, lately furnished by Miss Edmonia
Lewis, and greatly admired......Records of
crime and calamities fill more columns than
all other subjects.......Mile Beccari, an Italian
lady, is the editor of the Woman’s Rights
paper published at Venice......London has
opened a laboratory for the use of ladies
studying experimental chemistry.........M.
Faure of Paris, has had a sale of pictures,
which brought him the sum of half a mil-
lion francs......The Chinese have a custom
of throwing rice after a newly made bride.
......The Malta opera house has been de-
stroyed by fire......The Right Rev. Samuel
Wilberforce fell from his horse and broke
his neck, while riding with Earl Granville,
in London, recently......An attempt to assas-
sinate a French Marshal while he was walking
on the grounds of his villa at Birrittz, was
made a few days since, but was not success-
ful, the guilty party being arrested......On
the gulf coast of Mexico, the yellow fever is
making sad ravages......Judge Wright, of
Washington is charged with having nine-
teen times, misappropriated money which
was put in his hands for Indian purposes.
......Kate Stodard of New York, arrested for
the murder of Charles Goodrich, is said to
be a beautiful woman, wan and weary look-
ing, with pensive blue eyes and golden
tresses......A Chinaman in San Francisco,
whose washhouse was broken into by
rioters, fired three revolver shots among
them, when they fled in dismay, not being
prepared for such a reception......Vera Cruz
has caught the cholera......In Virginia the
school population is 411,021, of whom
247,002 are white.......Mr. and Mrs. Fleming,
of San Francisco, have sued the California
Pacific Rail Road Company for $25,000, for
a son of theirs being killed through the
carelessness of an agent on the road......The
Captain of a ship, lately landed on the
pacific coast, has had to pay $17,000 for
bringing a number of Chinamen more than
the size of the vessel allowed and $50 more
for ill treatment to one of his seamen......A Mr.
Richardson is exploring Vancouver Island,
with a view to the ultimate construction of
a branch railroad to Albernia......It appears
that the medical virtues of fish oil for lung
complaint have been known among the
Chinese for centuries, but they make use of
the chad instead of the codfish........A new
method for making boot and shoe heels
has been invented by a man of Leeds,
England; it will be well if they are to be
formed in a more common-sense style than
those in use at present......A man in Califor-
nia walked off the Railroad Exchange in
his sleep and woke up fifteen feet below;
his injuries were severe, probably fatal......
Cincinnati, Ohio, will have an Industrial
Exposition to open, September 3rd and
close October 4th......A Louisville policeman
named Gannon recently shot his wife, kil-
ling her almost instantly......An extensive
collection and preparation of mosses, made
by the late William S. Sullivant was
bequeathed to Harvard University........
Phineas Allen, Jr., for many years the
editor of the Pittsfield, Mass., “Sun,” died
in that town on the Fourth of July. The
“Sun” which was established in 1800, was
founded by and preserved in the Allen family
for a period of seventy-two years.....A Balti-
more machinist, Thomas Winans, is build-
ing for his private music hall, a gigantic
organ, to be worked by steam power and
tended to far surpass the great organ of Boston.
The Newton gas well, discovered last year, six
miles from Titusville, Pa., issues at the rate of
three millions of cubic feet of gas every ay of
twenty-four hours; it is pronounced the
greatest gas well in the world......It has been
discovered that tin possesses many considera-
tions of fitness for stopping carious teeth,
not held in gold........A fossil corn shuck was
lately found in Missouri, 30 feet below the
surface, imbedded in clay......Some of the
women lecturers on the Pacific coast are
taking strong grounds against Chinese im-
migration.......The real name of Kate Stod-
dard, the alleged murderess, is Lizie L.
King.


