HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

  Keeping Children Busy: These rest-
less little mortals are quiet only when they
are asleep, and often not even then, for in
dreams they are playing croquet, or gallop-
ing on horseback, or fondling their dolls.
They need playthings just as much as they
require bread and milk, and shoes and
clothes. Many parents, thinking they can-
not afford time or money to provide amuse-
ment and occupation for their little ones,
leave them to shift for themselves and hunt
up their own toys. So Jhonnie gets into
mamma’s bureau or closet, and enjoys the
muss he makes there more than he sorrows
over the punishment that follows it. As he
grows older, jack-knife and foot rule, ham-
mer and saw, gimlet and drawing knife,
screw driver and pinchers, will be in requi-
sition to make his bows and arrows, his
ships and carts. Little Susie will take her
mamma’s needles and thread, her buttons
and scissors, and leave her work basket in
sad disorder unless all these article are
given to Susie for her own special use. With
a work-box and needle book, a pair of scis-
sors, and occasional supervision of her
mother, Susie may gradually be initiated
into all the mysteries of darning, overseam-
ing, hemming, and back stitch. We all
know that children are very anxious to do
what they cannot do, but this inclination,
which is frequently quite annoying, may be
turned to good account. Instead of driving
them away, let them be taught the difficul-
ties of what they wish to undertake, the
best way of overcoming them, and let them
lend a helping hand In doing the coveted
thing till they can be intrusted to do it
alone. Every boy should learn the use of
tools, and be able to drive a nail properly,
[new column]
to push the saw and shove the plane, to
make a button for a door, and exercise his
ingenuity in the manufacture of hanging
baskets, brackets, rustic benches, sleds and
bows. Though what he does may be a
failure, it may lead to ultimate success.-Ex.
  Tender Feet. The following is said to
be a remedy for tender feet: One table-
spoonful of carbonate of soda disolved in a
half pint of cold water. The feet are to be
sponged with the solution night and morn-
ing.
Potash Water is the quickest cure for
wasp stings: a small quantity should be kept
in a glass-stoppered bottle. Open the sting
with a needle, and put on one drop of the
potash water.
Cure for Sore Throat.—Mix a quarter
of an ounce of saltpeter, finely pulverized,
with three ounces of pure honey. Dilute it
with vinegar, and use it as a gargle. Or
take a small spoonful of it into the mouth
occasionally and let it disoive slowly.
Cement for Filling Cracks in Furni-
ture.—Moisten a piece of recently burnt
lime with enough water to make it fall to
powder; mix one part of the slaked lime
with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form it into
a thick plastic mass.
To mend China, take a thick solution
of gum arabic in water, and stir it into
plaster of Paris, until the mixture is of a
proper consistency. Apply to the fractured
edges of the China, and stick them together.
In three days the articls cannot be broken
in the same place. The whiteness of the
cement renders it doubly valuable.
The following rule for churning will seem
an absurdity to many, but it is given by an
experienced dairy tender: The night before
churning, put the cream in a tin to stand in
a furnace of warm water, which should gradu-
ally reach boiling heat, until the cream is
scalding hot, stirring it occasionally while
it is heating. Then take the tin out of the
water, pour the cream into another vessel,
and let as much as possible of the steam
from it escape. Stir it also once or twice
while cooling; keep it in a warmer tempera-
ture than in the dairy until churned next
morning. This removes all disagreeable
taste from any kind of food taken by the
cows, and was never known to fail in mak-
ing good butter come in from twenty to forty
minutes’ churning.


﻿A widow lady sitting beside a cheerful fire
in a meditative mood, shortly after her hus-
band's decease, sighed out, “Poor fellow!
How he did like a good fire! I hope he has
gone where they always keep good fires.”
	Young mother: “Don’t” give the baby
soothing syrup. When he cries undress
him and rub him gently all over. Give
him plenty of room to kick and expand.
We are afraid you fasten his clothes too
tightly. Give him clear cold water freely
this hot weather. He won’t need medicine
if you don’t overwork yourself and will
abstain from nostrums and late hours, and
will indulge plentifully in plain, nutritious
food. Mush and milk and graham bread
and butter will make better food for the
baby both in quality and quantity than all
the tea and ale and beer and other slops you
can swallow. Learn a lesson from the cows
that roam the prairies and the calves that
play in the barn-yard. Your baby needs no
more nostrums than your calf and you need
beer and other slops of the kind just as badly
as old brindle does, and no worse. Don’t
get angry. We only mean what we say.
—“New North West.”


