		SALT LAKE CITV, July 14, 1873.
Beloved Sisters in the faith of the Gospel of the
Son of God:
	It is impossible for me to express the joy and
gratitude of my heart, in being once more in
your midst; in the gathering place of the
honest of heart. While absent, I have ever
felt a degree of pride and thankfulness, that
my home was in Utah—in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains of America. Whatever
others, in their ignorance might imagine, we
“know,” that in Utah, are associated the best
and noblest spirits that are tabernacled in the


flesh—that here, the highest order of intelli-
gence is obtained, and society organized in a
purer and more perfect form than anywhere
else on earth.
	With what sacred feelings I now realize that
I am at home, surrounded by, and associated
with the Saints of God, many of whom I have
already met with warm, affectionate greetings,
and now avail myself of the medium of the Ex-
ponent, our excellent household paper, for
extending to many others, with whom oppor-
tunities may not soon admit of personal
interviews, my most cordial greeting, accom-
panied with love and blessing.
	Thanks, my dear Sisters, for your faith and
prayers, through which, in a great measure, I
attribute the blessings of God in the wonderful
prosperity which, from first to last, attended
the party of tourists, of which I have the
honor of having been a member. We have
traveled twelve thousand miles by water, and
nearly or quite, thirteen thousand by land,
without accident, and without a single failure
in making connection, either with steamer or
railroad; and safely home.
	What an honor to be associated with those
who are co-workers with God in establishing a
Government of peace and purity! The more I
see of the world, the more I realize the necessity
of a more perfect form of Government than
exists among the nations of the earth; and how
gratifying it is to a sympathizer with oppressed
humanity, to “know” that God has now intro-
duced His own authority and is establishing
His Kingdom, and that all who will, have the
privilege of assisting in this great work. A
work of the most important interest to the
living and the dead—one which confers on
living men and women, the highest possible,
responsibilities.
	While abroad I often encountered the absurd
idea, which many seem unwilling to relinquish,
that here, woman is held in a state of vassalage
—“down-trodden,” etc., etc., to which I invari-
ably, opposed the “fact” that nowhere on earth,
woman has as large responsibilities, and wields
as much influence as with the Latter-day
Saints. You, my Sisters, who are awake to
your callings and your duties, will readily sub-
scribe to the foregoing; while perhaps, a few,
who have no other thought of the object of their
present existence, than that they are born to be
idle curiosities, or playthings of human life—to
trifle away time in selfish vanity; see no good
and noble position for woman to qualify herself
to fill; and make light of the most important
labors.
	We know that inasmuch as we labor for the
Kingdom of God, our reward is sure, though all
else should perish. Let us work on—laboring
for "the things which make for peace,” faith,
hope, charity and perseverence in the path of
perfection, until we shall be prepared for the
presence of holy beings.
	Your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant, 
						Eliza R. Snow.


