THE WIFE OF GENERAL CANBY.

	More than thirty years ago, in the little
town of Crawfordville, Ind., there was a
merry, old-fashioned wedding, and Captain
E. R. S. Canby and Louisa Hawkins were
married. Both were young, the bride was
beautiful, gifted with a reed-like grace of
movement, and a rich and exquisite voice,
that still haunts my ear with the echo of its
remembered music. The old people shook
their heads that night, and said she was too
tender for a soldier’s wife; it would not do
for her to brave the hardships and dangers
of the new countries. His calm, earnest
way of loving, won her whole soul, and
throughout the shifting changes of all this
tract of years she has gone with him, and
where he was, there was her home—her
only home. Along the lonely frontier,
at desolate outposts, in Florida, in New
Mexico, in California, even on the rough
edge of the battle, that gentle, delicate
woman has hovered near her husband, and
the banner overhead was love. In the fruit-
less march to Utah, under Buchanan’s
administration, her tent was pitched among
the mountains where the troops wintered.
And I recollect a letter, written to kindred
at home, describing their camp, and how


gladly she ate the wild garlic, as a preven-
tive to scurvy, when it started under the
melting snows of a late coming spring.
What the husband gained in moral hight by
the companionship of the Christian wife,
how much he owed to her, and we through
him, has not been recognized. His inherited
tendency to gloom was charmed away in
that serene presence. There was healing
in the wings of the guardian spirit, and
through her vigilence, whatever could
annoy was smoothed from before him as if
by the unseen agency of fairy hands. Partly
to this unfailing care is due that even poise
of brain which kept his judgment so nicely
balanced that, as has been said of Washing-
ton in action, “he never failed to observe all
that was possible, and at the same time to
bound his aspirations by that which was
possible.” Nothing could exceed the
knightly tenderness, the courtly deference
of his manner to her. He learned—as
sooner or later all must learn—that a little
love is much better than fame, and those
who knew him as merely the silent, inflex-
ible officer, could not guess how the lovely-
ness of her life was blended with his, and
filled it with an undersong of wonderful
sweetness. Her household was directed
with a wise and elegant thrift, more abun-
dant than any waste, and once when the
General laughingly complained of being
kept on short allowance, she surprised him
with a sum saved from his pay sufficient to
purchase a farm in Missouri. This, too,
was for others. In Richmond she made our
enemies love her, and in New Orleans said,
“I can hardly keep anything, there is such
suffering about us." How many she has
warmed, and cheered, and comforted only
the recording angel has written. During
their first marriage years her early beauty
sprang up anew at their feet, and a little
girl’s caressing chatter filled their house
with music; but the Divine friend of children
took the young child in His arms, even as
he took the child of old, and has kept her
safely housed in heaven—safe from sickness,
from the battle, from the temptation, from
the weight of years. Immortality would
seem but a cheat if with the dust died
our affections.


PASCAL has finely said, “I do not admire
in a man the extreme of virtue, as of valor,
if I do not see at the same time the extreme
of the opposite virtue, as in Epaminondas,
who had the extreme of valor and the ex-
treme of gentleness. For otherwise this
character would not rise, but fall, by the
excess of the one side, A man shows true
greatness, not by touching one extreme,
but by touching, both at once, and filling up
the interval.”
ErRRORS OF THE WORLD.—The little I
have seen of the world teaches me to look
upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in
anger. When I take the history of one
poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and
represent to myself the struggles and temp-
tations it has passed through, the brief
pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of
fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of
friends, I would fain leave the erring soul
of my fellow man with Him from whose
hand it came.—“Longfellow.”
SAY "good-night to your little ones as if
you were saying “good-by.”  The angels
may want them before the dawn of morn-
ing. It is hard enough to bear when grief
alone fills the place of your absent ones but
when remorse sits in the empty chair, and
your last memory of the dear little face is
that of a wronged and sorrowful child, it is
a haunting reproach which you may hardly
hope in this world to dismiss.


