			SOUTH COTTONWOOD WARD
						July 15th, 1873
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of our fourth annual meeting, held
May 17, 1873. Singing, "Arise my soul
arise." Prayer by Bishop Rawlins. Sing-
ing, "How beautious are their feet." The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted; also accounts of receipts and
disbursements for the year ending May 17th,
1873, which made a very favorable showing.
The Bishop, brother Rawlins, and his
Counselors were present, also sister Kimball
and sister Zina Young from Salt Lake City,
and other sisters from the adjoinging wards
who offered good instrucitons and encourag-
ing words. The spirit of the meeting was
to impress upon the minds of the sisters,
the importance of each one seeking diligently
to carry out the commandments of God,
given in words of ocunsel by President
Brigham Young. They were advised to
take an interest in saving their rags and
assissting to make their own books and
papers, unitedly commencing and maturing
those plans suggested by President Young.
The EXPONENT was also spoken of favorably
and the sisters were advised to aid in sus-
taining it. The subject of educating
children,the way to bring them up in the
ways of truth and righteousness, was treated
upon. All were counseled to have their
children learn some good trade; the boys to
learn stone cutting, farming carpentering,
blacksmithing, and any other good and useful
trade; and the girls to be taught type set-
ting, how to print, dressmaking and such
suitable works. The Bishop said the sisters
were to go ahead in the great work they
had commenced and he would give them en-
couragement and help them all he could.
The President, Sister Cahoon, is a good,
faithful Saint, striving to carry out and 
perform all the duties belonging to her.
The sisters are united in good feelings and
are striving to do all they can to prove they
know that it is woman's portion to be full of
charity, to seek out the oppressed, the ppor
the widoe and the orphan and impart to
them of her substance. The meeting was
adjourned untill the second Thursday in
June at one o'clock. Singing "The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning." Benediction by
Brother Maxfield.
	Counselor MRS. ANN E. LABRUM, Secre-
tary.

	At Ogden, July 10th, 1873, Professor
Monch’s School Examination and the meet-
ing of the Relief Society being held the
same day, it was thought best by President
F. D. Richards, that they should unite and
both lx conducted in the City Hall.
	The ladies of the Society met at two
o’clock. Also some of the leading men of
Ogden. The classes of the school were
brought in in their respective orders under
the supervision of the Professor. Much of
the reciting was done in consert, in a man-
ner highly creditable to both Teacher and
scholars. After the recitations of the
classes, the audience listened with much
interest to the singing of some of the girls
and a declamation by Mr. C. Richards, which
were promptly and well executed. Also a
piece, “The Modocs,” by a young gentle-
man which deserved credit. A dialogue
was read by Mr. Brown and Miss Hill with
spirit and energy and received much ap-
plause. The “School Paper” was read by
Miss Delecta Ballantyne. Remarks were
made by President F. D. Rishards, W. W.
Burton, D. H. Peery and others; expressing
pleasure and satisfaction with the afternoon’s
entertainment, also congratulating Professor
Monch on his success and abilities as a
Teacher. Professor Monch made some ap-
propriate remarks to his scholars and vistors.
He has been energetic and untiring- in
establishing a first class school in Ogden;
and deserves the warmest thanks of the
residents of that place.
	The afternoon exercises were closed with
prayer by President F. D. Richards. 
	The scholars were left in charge of their
Teacher, and the Society under the direction
of Mrs. J. S. Richards, President, to trans
act any necessary business. The meeting
of the Society was adjourned for two weeks.
								A. M. F.


	From Nephi. Editor Woman’s Ex-
ponent,—June 23rd was the day for our
annual meeting, but owing to the house
being occupied, our meeting was postponed
till the 28th, when we met according to
adjournment. Order was called by Counse-
lor Elizabeth Kendall; after singing and
prayer, many good remarks were made by
the brethren and sisters present, exhorting
all to faithfulness and diligence and en-
couraging all in every good word and work.
Our financial report shows that we are pro-
gressing but slowly; still we are trying to do
the best we can, not only in worldly matters
but also in trying to give a word of advice
to those who are in need. We realize that
it is the faithful few who will gain the
promised blessings, while the larger portion
neglect the duties that belong to them, and
seem to think them of miner consequence.
Sucli must inevitably come short of obtaining
the glory that the faithful will attain ito.
Our much loved President is upheld and
sustained by her counselors, the Board of
Teachers, Secretary and Treasurer, with
many more faithful sisters in the Society
AMELICA GOLDS BROUGH, President.
ELIZABETH KENDALL, 
JANE PICTON,		Counselors
A. L. BIGLER, Secretary, 
SARAH ANN ANDREWS, Treasurer.

	Report of the Fifth Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society of Wellsvillo, Cache Co.,
July 11th, at 2 o’clock p. m. Bishop William
Maughan with several other brethren, and
President Mrs M. A. Maughan of Logan


City were present. The financial report for
the year was read and approved.  We have
given to the needy, one hundred dollars and 
seventy cents, and have three shares in
the Co-operative Mercantile store, four
shares in the Co-operative Milliners store and
a balance in the Treasury of two hundred
and thirty-five dollars and eighty-five cents.
Bishop Wm. Maughan said he was very
thankful to the sisters for their labors since
the organization of the Society, and hoped
they would continue in doing good; spoke
of the great privileges they enjoyed and
gave good counsel.  Sister M. A. Maughan
said she would exhort the sisters to faithful-
ness, to attend meetings regularly and be
diligent in attending to the wants of the
poor.  Several of the brethren made encourag-
ing remarks.  All present seemed to be
satisfied with the meeting, and we con-
cluded our Fifth Anniversary with a party
in the evening which was a decided success.
MRS. ELLEN WHITON, President,
MRS. MARGARET WOODWARD,
MRS. MARTHA HOWELL,         }Counselors,
MRS. MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary, 
MRS. ANN JONES, Treasurer.
		    _____
		CENTERVILLE, June 21st, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our first meeting of the Relief Society,
after receiving notice, we took a vote which
was unanimous, to drop the word “Female”
from our Relief Society.
				 M. C. Adams, Secretary.
				    —
	The 62nd meeting of the Senior and
Junior Co-operative Retrenchment Associ-
ation of Salt Lake City, was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms on the afternoon of
Saturday, July 17th, 1873, presided over by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, President.  After the
usual ceremonies of singing, prayer and
reading of the minutes, Sister Horne made
remarks: She presumed all present felt the
same as she did, rejoiced at having Sister
Snow again in our midst. They all had heard
what President Young had counseled at
the April Conference in relation to women
and girls being taught to set type and learn-
ing to prepare their own school books,
nothing yet had been done in the matter,
but it was desired that the Presidents of
Relief Societies should ascertain who in
their Wards would come forward and learn
to set type as a stepping-stone to greater
things.  The Retrenchment girls were as
reliable as any the speaker knew of.
	Counselor Mrs.  B.  W.  Smith said the
President had suggested to her that three
women from each Ward in the city be
chosen to form a class for studying physi-
ology and obstetrics.  Also that one woman
from each settlement be sent to the city to
study the same branches, and that the
Bishops see that such women be supported.
	Counselor Z.  D.  Young said she would
like to have the Spirit of the Lord, that what
she said might go to the hearts of her sisters.
They should all consider themselves mission-
aries in the Kingdom, the things which had
been suggested were not trifles, they were
principles that meant “work,” and must be
laid hold of in- earnest.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow made remarks. She
was looking upon a congregation belonging
to a people who were blessed above all
others on the face of the earth: she felt
more honored than she had done when
walking through princely palaces. When
she looked at the superstition of the world,
she thought if the sisters could realize their
high position and be awake to their duties,
they would, many of them, be more ener-
getic and seek more for faith and unity.
Was thankful that so many were proving
[new column]
themselves faithful.  It was hard, some-
times, to convince persons who had been
prejudiced against the Mormons, that they
did not know more about the people here, 
and their doings, than those who had been
associated with them for forty years; they
would have it that the women of Utah were 
enslaved and trodden down. She had many
times remarked to gentlemen of the press
that no where on earth had women so broad
a sphere of action or so much liberty as in
Utah.  She remarked to an editor in New
York that it was disgraceful for men like
himself, whom people looked to and had right
to look to for enlightenment and the truth,
to publish so many falsehoods about a people
so well known as were the Mormons; there
was no excuse for their doing so, any one
might learn the truth of a people so much
talked about. She was ashamed of the
American press. She wished the sisters to
appreciate the freedom they had, and when
a convention was held for the purpose of
electing officers all the women should go
and join their votes. Each of their votes
counted one the same as that of any
man, of however great importance. She
was proud of her sisters, those who were
seeking to know and perform their duties
in assisting to build up the Kingdom of
God; urged upon them the necessity of their
being studious and active, and encouraging
and strengthening each other; thanked and
blest them all for their kind faith made
manifest in her behalf, and the love they
had shown her.  Hoped they would all be
on hand to help carry out the requirements
which had been made of them.
	Some business matters were attended to,
after which meeting adjourned for two
weeks; dismissed with singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young.
					M. M. Groo, Secretary.


