THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE.
				    ——
	The banks of the Danube for many miles
after leaving Vienna are flat and uninterest-
ing. Here and there a rough wall of loose
stones has been thrown up to resist the en-
croachment of the water; but the general
character of the landscape betokens the im-
possibility of cultivation, and the fields seem
scarcely yet to have recovered from the
devastation of the wintery floods. Stunted,
shock-headed, palsied willows, with an
occasional poplar, are the only trees; the 
grass is long and rank, and flags and bull-
rushed thickly fringe the stream. No
attempt at division seems to have been
made—all is common property; though here
and there, where the herbage is of better
quality and more fitted for grazing purposes,
one comes on a vast herd of dun-colored,
long-horned cattle, or a drove of small, wiry,


shaggy horses, some browsing, some gallop-
ing wildly about in terror at the snorting
steamer. At intervals of every two or three
miles we glide past a long row of barges,
some of which have been formed into water-
mills, while the others are converted into
residences for those who look after the
grinding of the meal. According to the
tradition of song, millers are a joyous, lively
race, but it would be difficult to imagine a
more solitary, cheerless life than the lot of
these men, "one side water all around"
them, and such land as they can see, barren,
desolate and forbidding. Of active life on
the river there is scarcely a sign. The
stream is split into so many branches, and 
winds its way through so many devious
channels, between islands teeming with
rank vegetation and high sand banks, that
anything like a distant prospect is impossible.
Occasionally we come upon a steamer tug-
ging a fleet of heavily laden barges against
the stream, and then there is an interchange
of courtesy between the two crews which is
perfectly Eastern in its profuseness. Each
captain on the barge raises his gold-lace cap
and lays his hand on his heart; each mate
half way down the companion ladder does
ditto; even the helmsmen are so intent upon
bowing and saluting that they let go their
hold on the wheel for a moment, heedless
of the dangerous navigation.—“St. Louis
Paper.”


