[column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Queen Isabella Association asks Pres.
Palmer to appoint as three of the nine women
commissioners from Chicago, Dr. Julia Holmes
Smith, Dr. Francis Dickinson and Catherine
V. Waite.
	As late as 1850 the number of female 
graduates in medicine could be counted on the
fingers of one hand. To-day upward of 2,000
American women hold a medical diploma, and 
the chance of a first-class medical education is
within reach of any woman who seeks it.—
Baltimore Sun.
	Canon Wilberforce, during his tour in
India, has been speaking with more than his
usual eloquence. He says that there is no sex
in citizenship, and that India should develop
the intelligence of her women. "No nation 
can attain strength that is afraid to educate its
women."
	WATER COOLED WITHOUT ICE.—Where ice
cannot be procured, water may be cooled by
wrapping the pitcher containing it in a towel
of loose texture which has been previously
impregnated with ammonium nitrate (and
dried), and moistening this with water. The
same towel may be used repeatedly, being
dried thoroughly beforehand each time.—
Medical Classics.
	Rev. Robert Laird Collier died of apoplexy
at his country home, "the Everglades," near
Salisbury, N. J. at midnight, recently. He
was stricken with paralysis the night before
and never regained consciousness. Mr. Collier
was born in Wicomico County, Aug. 7, 1835.
Like Saul of old he opposed equal rights until
he saw light; then, like Paul, he heartily es-
poused the good gospel of woman suffrage.
	A Mohammedan woman; a native of Bakshe-
Serai, in the Crimea has recently passed with
flying colors her examination as physician
and surgeon at Odessa, and, having received
her diploma, is now practising medicine among
the Mohammedan ladies of the district
from which she hails. Her name is Dr. Razie
Koutloiaroff-Hanum, and hers is the first case
on record of a Mohammedan lady practising
medicine as understood by Western nations.
Women, too, are now being employed for the
first time by the Government as telegraphic
clerks and ticket agents on the Trans-Caspian
Railroad.
								Ex.
	It is not often that a bride stops while mov-
ing toward the altar, and breaks the line of
[column 2]
the procession of her own sweet will. But
Miss Dorothy Tennant did this on the occasion
of her marriage to Henry M. Stanley the other
day in Westminster Abbey, and walked slowly
to the tablet under which lies the dust of
Livingstone and placed thereon a wreath of
white flowers, in the center of which was the
letter "L" in scarlet. This gentle courtesy in
honor and memory of a departed hero, recalls
what Dickens says of that beautiful trait in
human nature which causes us to remember
most vividly the dead in moments of our
greatest joy and peace. For grace and dignity,
this simple act is unsurpassed. It will be
remembered that Miss Tennant was the model
for Millais' famous picture of "Yes, or No?"
And this counterfeit presentment gives a face
of gentle sweetness and quiet power.
						Woman's Cycle.

	The report on permanent organization of
the Columbian Commission of the World's Fair
at Chicago, proides for a Board of Lady
Managers, consisting of two women and
alternates therefor from each State and Terri-
tory and the District of Columbia, which shall be
known as the Woman's Department of the
World's Columbian Commission, and the
commissioners from each State and Territory
and the District of Columbia shall nominate,
from their respective States and Territories
and the District of Columbia, such lady
managers, and the president of this commission
shall appoint said nominees to said Board of 
Managers, and in addition to the members
from each State and Territory and the District
of Columbia, the president of the commission
may appoint nine women of the City of Chicago
The respective Commissioners at Large shall
in like manner nominate eight women and
Alternates at Large to act upon said Board of
Lady Managers, and that the whole number
of women so nominated and appointed shall
constitute the Board of Lady Managers contem-
plated by the act of Congress. It is further
provided, that the Board of Lady Managers be
constituted officers of the World's Columbian
Commission, and as such shall receive the
compensation of six dollars per diem, and
travelling expenses,the same as the men.
									Ex.


