W. S. A. CELEBRATION.
	On the afternoon of Wednesday the 23rd of
July, the same day that Wyoming celebrated her
statehood, the W. S. A. of Utah assembled in
Liberty Park, Salt Lake City to honor the occa-
sion, and rejoice in the good fortune of their
sister Territory and with the women of Wyoming
that they had obtained political freedom. The
affair was rather impromptu, and hurriedly ar-
ranged; the exercises commenced at 4 p. m.,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball in the chair.
	A song from a French opera by Miss Alice E.
Bridewell of New Orleans gave spirit and a tone
of vivacity to the proceedings, her rich clear voice
rang out among the tall and stately trees, full of
melody and sweetness. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read
in excellent voice and pleasing manner a brief
speech written by her sister Mrs. Susa Y. Gates
who was not well enough to attend the gathering.
	“That women are today shouting the Battle Cry
of Freedom in unison with Wyoming’s glad
triumph, surprises no one! Yet, if the veil of the
future could but be torn aside, for every cry given
by woman man would send a thousand fuller,
deeper notes of joy into the echoes of Eternity.
Can he with eyes fail to see that for every step
gained by the mother, the son will leap a rod
beyond. Every inch of width, every foot in
height which you add to the home walls of the
mother,deepens and broadens in four fold measure
the natures nurtured beneath her eye. When will
men understand this? “You cannot gather figs
from thistles,” but how well the delicate peach
repays the years of cultivation, which brought
the acrid plum from the steppes of Russia to hang
in rosy lusciousness on southern walls.
	To vote, means not alone the right to drop the
ticket in the ballot box. It means a gate open-
ing on a thousand avenues, which lead to peace
and equality. It is because those few brave wo-
men so many years ago at Seneca Falls walked

[Column 2]
up and demanded entrance at the gate, that we-
men have since scaled the barrier and have en-
tered the paths of Surgery, Law, Mercantile and
other pursuits all leading outward from this gate.
	Does it unfit men for husbands and fathers to
cast their votes? Does it unfit them as hod-
carriers, brick-layers, as Senators as physicians.
Why then should it unfit woman for her various
occupations?
	The one object to be gained in educating men
or women is to make them think. The educated
few have always ruled the ignorant many. But
now with the opening wedge drived into the iron
wall of prejudice by the bold hand of Wyoming,
we may hope to see Education rising, from the
masses even as the clouds from the whole face of
Ignorance watering into life and glory the flowers
of Thought—equal and independent Thought.”
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then addressed the
ladies present in a very graceful manner, compli-
menting the women of Wyoming upon their
energy and efficiency during the twenty years they
had enjoyed the franchise,and congratulating them
on enjoying equal political rights with men in full
possession of statehood. Said there was no
jealousy in the hearts of the women of Utah to-
wards Wyoming even if they had been disfran-
chised, they rejoiced in the good fortune of their
sister territory; though Utah was her elder sister
and in every way entitled to the same rights and
privileges. 
	Dr. R. B. Pratt was the next speaker, she went
over some of the ground of the opponents of wo-
man suffrage and referred to the weakness of
their arguments, particularly those of Southern
Congress-men. She gave some of her views in
reference to the colored race, and woman’s posi-
tion generally;—the remarks upon the colored
people called forth some statements on the sub-
ject from Miss Bridewell who seemed pretty well
posted on the woman question in the South;
though she had never belonged to a suffrage as
sociation but was a member of a Ladies’ club, and
took a great interest in all matters pertaining to
women; she believed what the Southern women
needed was education on the subject, and the op-
portunities of becoming acquainted with the
merits of the cause; and they would be ready to
take hold of the work. Referred to the chivalry
of Southern gentlemen and their desire to show
woman special respect and honor; but she was
fully aware there were many women who had no
protection, and who consequently must fight their
own way in the world; and how much better to
be qualified and the condition of things adapted,
to such circumstances. Miss Bridewell was
listened to with marked attention; it was so new
to most of those present, to hear a young Southern
girl speak so feelingly upon the question of wo-
wan’s political equality.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt proud of the Territory
and State of Wyoming, she was a suffragist from
principle and believed in equal rights for men
and women, thought woman’s reign had now be-
gun in earnest since the women of Wyoming had
been privileged to become enrolled and were
secure in statehood. South Dakota was struggl-
ing for the same privilege and she believed would
be successful, many able women were there aid-
ing the cause, California donated liberally and
other states were helping on the good work.
	Mrs. Kimball suggested three cheers for
Wyoming which was responded to by all present
joining in the hip, hip, hurrah, which was heartily
repeated.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber rose in response to the
Chairman’s invitation and expressed herself in
sympathy with woman suffrage all over the world,
firmly believed women should have the ballot,
and did not think they would vote for men to be
elected to office because they treated them in a
saloon. Mothers would wish to purify the at


mosphere for their sons and for mankind gen-
erally, and a better condition of government would
exist when women took an equal part in it.
	Dr. E. S. Barney believed in women and their
equality, she thought they would make good
judges, gave a graphic illustration of a stage trip
across the plains at which time the presence of a
lady in the stage coach, had been a sort of equa-
lizer to keep things moderate. Her idea as far as
progress was concerned was that women were in
advance. and certainly in charity which was the
acme of good.
	Mrs. C. Chapin of Ohio believed in woman
suffrage, said it had not been agitated in the town
where she lived, but she had been much interested
in it since she came to Salt Lake.
	The Chairman Mrs. Kimball made a brief ad-
dress and announced that a dispatch had been for-
warded to Mrs. M. E. Post at Cheyenne Wyom-
ing, the following is a copy.
	"The women of Utah send joyful greetings and
congratulations to their favored sisters of Wyom-
ing. Utah is proud of her little sister and recog-
nizes woman suffrage as the brightest jewel in her
crown of Statehood."
	The telegram was signed by Mrs. Kimball, as
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and endorsed by the members here and
will be we are perfectly sure by all the thousands of
women in Utah who believe in equal rights. The
Chairman then announced refreshments and the
ladies arranged the tables and benches.
	Near Mrs. Kimball was a box which had not
been opened, after all the guests were seated Mrs.
Kimball opened the box and displayed a dainty
little silver tea set with tray, this she presented to
Mrs. Dye, who sat opposite, with these words:
	"Mrs. Dye: The ladies of the W. S. A. of Salt
Lake City have assigned to me the pleasure of
presenting to you in their behalf this silver Tea-set
which we ask you to accept as a testimonial of
appreciation and love."
	Mrs. Dye though taken unawares made a grate-
ful response thanking the ladies for their beauti-
ful remembrance and telling them her lawn and
grounds were open to them any time in the future.
	A bright and animated discussion of the wo-
man question was kept up while partaking of the
refreshments, and soon after the company dis-
persed, having spent a few delightful hours in
very proper recognition of the victory achieved
for women not only in Wyoming but for the cause
everywhere.


