[column 1]
PRIDE, HOW SHALL WE DEFINE IT.
	King Solomon says: "Pride comes before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall."
Now since we have fallen to that degree that
our enemies rule over us, (or at least those who
are enemies to this Gospel, and say such a
doctrine shall not exist,) how shall we account
for this change, is pride the cause? Well, you
say it is right to have a becoming kind of pride,
yes pride enough to be decent to be cleanly to
be respectable. 
	If this is pride why did the Lord say "He
resists the proud but He giveth grace to the
humble." I think we can maintain those quali-
ties without a particle of pride.
	In my opinion dignity and self-respect be-
long to the Deity. Did not Jesus say "Be ye
perfect even as your Father in heaven is per-
fect." In this we learn that God is our Father.
Accordingly those who believe this and obey
His commandments will obtain His spirit
which when it is obtained they will find it
gives them dignity and self respect, for these are
attributes of the Diety and not pride as one
may suppose.
	No this is a portion of our Father's char-
acter and naturally we inherit the same; not
only so, but we have an earnest persevering
zeal for the rights which belong to us, this
we saw in the grand parade last winter, but
the Lord can not make saints of proud people,
accordingly our humility must be tested. But
how about this self-respect; we are told by
Jesus that no unclean thing can enter the king-
dom of our Father in heaven.
	No, we must be pure in mind and body; for
it is written, First Epistle of John 3 chap. 3
verse "Every man that hath this hope in Him 
purifieth himself, even as He is pure. This
then is a portion of our Father's character and
not pride as many suppose. We must not be-
come filthy, or we would be loathsome objects
not fit to come back into our father's presence.
	He also speaks by the prophet Moses say-
ing to the children of Israel: "Be ye holy for
I am holy.” Strict obedience is required to
keep our feet from stumbling, we see.
	Yet we as a people often use the word pride
quite out of place, because it is not properly
defined by us, you will hear it said I am proud
of this or proud of that, yes proud to belong
to this cause. Is this right? I think
we may be gratified and pleased and delighted
yet not proud at all in all this; what does the
the Savior say, He says "the Lord resists the
proud but gives grace to the humble."
	Can we obtain His spirit then while we har-
bor pride in these tabernacles of ours? I think
not; besides we are in danger of losing that
portion we did obtain when humble, even as
King Solomon did. Do you remember his
dream? (Kings 4 chap. and 5 ver.) The Lord
asks "what shall I do for you?" he told the

[column 2]

Lord he was but a child did not know how to
go out or come in yet, he had need of wisdom,
he had a great people to rule over."
	He then earnestly pleaded for wisdom. The
answer was "Since he did not ask for long life
or riches, nor the lives of his enemies, but
only for wisdom he should have great wisdom,
and also riches." This he realized to the
fullest extent. He was honored and beloved
by all who knew of his wisdom, and heard his
voice, until he forgot God's commands given 
by Moses, saying "there are a people the
Israelites should not mix with, or in other
words should not go unto them neither should
they permit them to come into their domains.”
Yet King Solomon at last ventured to take
wives from these people.
	Now see what vanity did. And St. Paul says
that we are as subject to vanity as the sparks 
that fly upward. This vanity overcame King
Solomon. Read what he says when the Lord
took from him this flow of the good spirit. He
says "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity and
vexation of spirit." Of all the good things
under the sun none was any satisfaction to
him after losing that good spirit which he
once possessed so profusely.
	Now let us bring the subject nearer home.
I remember seeing the effects of vanity not
only once but often. I will only speak of
a friend of mine, a near neighbor who was
talented and had an education competent to
fill positions of trust.
	When he first came to this valley he worked
for the government, (under Cap. Stansburg.)
After this he was Chancelor of Deseret Uni-
versity. And finally one of the Twelve
Apostles. He filled his positions so well he
was called to preside over a branch of this
vineyard; yes several times did he fill this
position. But he became vain. This vanity
led him to do that which the Lord of heaven
and earth has forbidden.
	He not only lost his office but also his stand-
ing in the Church of God, and was cut off.
He was humbled to the dust and truly re-
pented after a time wished to be baptized, I
never knew if this was granted, but I do re-
member what the Savior said to Peter who
asked how often he should forgive, if 7 times,
"Yes," was the answer, "until 70 times 7." Show-
ing you should always give encouragement to the
penitent to forsake evil and cleave unto that
good spirit which gives light and joy and
peace.
	But oh! the mischief that vanity will bring
upon the human family. Each of us can know
this for ourselves. How often we find it like
the weeds on our garden sprining up ere you
are aware choking the good seed which al-
ways is a benefit to the person who possesses
it.
	How earnestly should we pray our Father
for wisdom that we may not be confused and
dark in our minds on this subject or any other,
but that we may know which spirit to cleave
to and which to forsake that we may not be-
come vain and foolish in these last days, when 
so much light and intelligence is requisite to
fill our positions properly.
	Vanity and self-conceit are dangerous pro-
perties. Why should one become vain be-
cause they have arrived at some attainment
which another has not. They may fill another
position the first is not capable of filling.
	Let us reflect and be more wise in the future
than we have been in the past, is the prayer of
		One of the Old Folks.
								MARY.


