HOW IT CAME ABOUT.
		(BY MAUD MULLER.)
	"Watch the baby dear, Mamma will soon be
back." The speaker, a tall graceful figure,
addressed herself to a group of little children,
three in number as they played under the
shade of the trees not far from the door; and
turning hastened through the field, to where
two cows were feeding, they having escaped
from a little pasture close by. And while she 
is in pursuit, allow me, dear reader, to intro-
duce her to you, and give you a little history
of her past. Some eight years before our story
opens, Harry Seawell became acquainted with
"the lovely Flora Mapleton," daughter of
Mathew Mapleton a poor but honest farmer.
They soon became fast friends, and to an ob-
server it could easily be seen, that these oft re-
peated visits meant something more than mere
friendship. It's the old, old story, of love and
marriage! old yet ever new; and friends and
acquaintances felt that it was a good match.
Flora had always been a delicate girl, but her
unbounded love for Harry prevented her from
raising any objections, when he laid his plans
to start a home in a new country sparsely set-
tled; those who have had the experience of
settling new homes, know what this term im-
plies; how, with everything new and strange,
having to temper the elements, subdue the
soil, clear and break up land, make roads,
fences and water-ditches, there is a great deal
of outcome, and but very little income for the
first few years at least.
	But youth and love smiles at such small
trifles, so in course of time our young friends
anchored their little barque firm and fast, in a
rough unbroken country, with its advantages
and disadvantages, life seemed full of sunshine,
no cloud to dim the horizon of their future.
But experience has taught us that no matter
how fragrant the rose, thorns lie hidden under
its foliage, just so with this loving couple.
	Sickness soon visited their humble dwelling,
a little one was added to their number, a poor
weakly little thing, inheriting from that
fragile mother a delicate constitution, and
like some lovely flower blossomed to day to
droop and die to-morrow. These were sad days
for the young parents. But all this was bu-
ried, thro' the anxiety and care that was now
given to the young mother; for days and weeks
her life was despaired of, many times the fond
husband feared his home would be made deso-
late by the loss of his companion; but after
many weeks of watching, she passed the
crisis, and 'twas with joy her friends nursed
her back to health again. Although but a
wreck of her former self, she was in time, able
to attend to her household cares. When his
wife had regained her health, and Harry had
time to look about, he found he had become
so deeply involved, that he would have to seek
work where he could obtain the means to ex-
tricate himself with. This of course could not
be obtained at home, for money was scarce.


He could see no other way than to leave home,
and go in search of work where he hoped soon
to get enough to pay all his debts, and build
a comfortable home for his wife. He laid his
plans before her, painting them in glowing
colors and she, the same good patient loving
soul ! shut her feelings in her heart and bid
him God Speed! and he was gone! gone, and
she was alone, without the kind husband to
soothe her when sleep would leave her pillow.
but she stood it bravely this little heroine of
ours and waited patiently weeks and months
for his return.
	And Harry what of him, day after day he
tried in vain to obtain work, one misfortune
after another overtook him, and finally after
months of disappointment and bad luck he
wended his way homeward, to receive that
encouragement from his darling, which she so
stood in need of herself. But in this case as
in all cases of adversity the woman was the
stronger, she was ready to receive him with
words of cheer, and laid all manner of plans
for the future.
	But nothing could throw off the despondency
that settled down on Harry Seawell; nothing
but himself. And this he seemed utterly
unable to do. He knew that he had failed to
obtain that which would make his family
comfortable. He would look at his patient
little wife notice her wasted form caused by not
having the necessary food till at times it seemed
he would go mad; at such times he would
feel that her smile or words of cheer were
only a reproach. Years went on and as mis-
fortune does not come single-handed, things
went from bad to worse. It seemed as if
she had laid her merciless hand so heavily up-
on him, that he could not get from under the
grasp. Three little ones now shared their
home. To be sure they were a comfort,and no
fonder father or mother lived than Harry and
Flora Seawell. It was this great love for them
that made poverty so hard to bear.
	To think they were in need of the comforts
of life, and he unable to supply their wants
was more than he was able to endure, and at
times might have been tempted to a rash or
desperate act, had it not been for the cool-
headed, patient wife that never murmured.
Although it was selfish for him to put so much
upon her yet he did it. He did not seem to
realize that these fits of despondency made it
harder for her to bear although she never
reproved him.
	If he had been the strong noble man he was
when he took her from her father’s door, he
would readily have seen his course was kill-
ing her. Not that he meant to be cruel to her
but he had become so used to complaining,that
he looked on the dark side of life and could
see no bright side in the future. And in fact
did not appreciate the many little blessings
that came to him daily.
	They had chosen for their building spot for
their future home an elevation on their land
where you could see in the distance the thrifty
little village that was rapidly growing, and
bid fair to be a flourishing town in the near
future, near by is the creek, whose banks are
shaded by trees and underbrush. ’Tis a cool
retreat from the rays of the scorching sun, and
the murmuring of the water as it glides over
the pebbles below, lulls you off to a forgetful-
ness of the cares around you. Near this in-
tended home is a large canal running thro’
Harry’s land that he not only uses, but 'tis for
the benefit of those who own land miles below
his own. While preparing to build, and, to
make his family as comfortable as possible, he
formed a rude shelter among the heaviest
underbrush and trees; to protect them from the
heat of summer,and the winter blasts. There-
fore the house was between the river and canal,
with the hills half a mile distant for a back-
ground. A beautiful little spring enhanced
[Column 2]
the value of his property, and was a great
prize to the family. A nice lucern patch
which supplied his stock with feed for the
winter,was another blessing attached to Harry’s
farm. But under the existing circumstances
Harry was unable to appreciate these blessings
as he might otherwise have done, he could
not see that in the future this would bring
him many returns for his unceasing labor.
It was the present wants that absorbed his
mind making him feel poorer than he really
was. Poor Flora. It made her very un-
happy to see her once cheerful husband give
way to these melancholy moods.
	It darkened their home and many times
this poor wife would pray that some day,Harry
would be his own dear self again. It came
sooner, and in a way she little dreamed of.
The morning on which our story opens,Harry
started to the canyon for a load of material
for his house. The morning was calm and
clear, nature had on her loveliest dress, the
fragrance of the wildrose, the fields of waving 
grain, the sweet, clear notes of the meadow-
lark,bespoke the goodness of an Allwise Creator.
Harry could not help but partake of this
sweet influence,as he rode along. Time passed
very busily for Flora, she sang a sketch of a
favorite song as sbe did up the morning’s work.
Harry had been more cheerful this morning
than usual. and her thoughts were so taken up
with this, and her labor, that she did not go
to the door for some time, when at last she did
it was with no little surprise that she noticed
an approaching storm! the sky had become
overcast with dark and threatening clouds her
first thought was of the children and as she
hurried to the spot where they were at play,
she spied her cows feeding outside of the en-
closure.
	Finding the little ones all right, with the
injunction to watch baby she was gone. She
hurriedly corralled her cows and made her way
back to the house. As she neared the house,
she noticed the baby was not with the children
she quickened her steps, at the same time look-
ing in all directions but did not see the little
one. She hurried to the spot and breathless
with excitement exclaimed, “The baby! chil-
dren wheres the baby?” They looked up in
amazement; of course they had not seen it go
did not know anything about it. Had it
followed her, and she had not seen it! Wild
with excitement she hurried to the river! O
what if he had fallen in and perhaps this very
moment was being washed away from her!
The thought lent her strength, it seemed that
her feet did not touch the ground! still it
seemed ages to that crazed mother,she reached
the bank at last, she scanned the river up and
down, but could see nothig of her baby. He
must have fallen in and floated down the
stream! The thought no sooner entered her
mind than she was off. Down the banks she
ran over rocks, thro’ the brush shrieking at
the top of her voice! “O my baby! my baby!”
The thought that he might have sank impelled
the wretched mother to plunge into the stream
feeling for the little body she knew must be
there somewhere. The excitement must have
taken wings for the news went out, that Flora
Seawell’s babe was lost, men women and chil-
dren, came upon the scene, then the search
began in earnest. Every spot where they
thought he could get, they searched it
thoroughly. Men searched the river with pitch-
forks, hoping to catch the dress of the little
one; to make the scene more impressive, the
storm burst upon them in great fury. The
rain came down in torrents; but they never
relinquished their energy: little ones worked
with a will, they crossed the canal thinking
it might have walked the plank that reached
across its banks, and off towards the hills as
if some unseen power was urging them on,at
every step calling him by name; when O
[Column 3]
joy! under a bush weeping bitterly; they
found the little one drenched to the skin but
alive and well. It did not take long to re-
turn with their treasure, to the anxious
workers; but now the babe was found where
was the mother? They hurried down the
stream, shouting their success at every breath.
Far down the stream they found her a
picture once seen never to be forgotten. Her
hair hanging down her back, her eyes start-
ing from their sockets, wringing her hands,
and screaming as one bereft of reason. “My
baby is lost! my baby is lost!” Stout men’s
hearts gave way, at the sight of that wretched
mother: but when they made known their
success she was overcome with joy. Taking
her tenderly in their arms, they carried her
to the house where gentle hands removed her
wet clothing, put her in bed, and made her
as comfortable as possible.
	Of course the news reached Harry before
he reached home: the joy of that fond father
on beholding his little treasure again no pen
can describe. He was greatly surprised to
see his little wife looking so well. In a day
or two she was herself again. When he
looked at them and thought what might
have been. his better nature was stirred to
the very center. His heart went out in
gratitude to God for the watch-care He had
had over his family, and the restoring of
their little one to them again. He resolved
that with the help of the Lord, and his
patient companion, he would be more worthy
of them in the future. He would try and
look on the bright side of life; and he did:
To day there is no happier home than that
of Harry Seawell’s.
	If clouds loom up in the horizon, he drives
them away with a smile, and fondly gazing
at his little flock will say “I have you all
and I am content.” The change it wrought
upon Harry is noticable to his friends, mak-
ing them happy in his company so the losing
of their babe proved to be (as Flora says) “a
blessing in disguise.”


