AN INTERESTING TIME.
	In company with Mrs. Jane S. Richards, First
Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H. Young we left this
City on Thursday August 7 to visit the sisters in
Iron County and attend Conference in that Stake
also to visit Beaver Co., and if possible Fillmore
on our return, but finding the distance very long
and it being necessary for us to reach home as
soon as possible, we deferred our visit to Fillmore
and other places in Millard County until another
time.
	We reached Cedar City Friday evening after a
drive of fifty-five miles, and went direct to the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Birkbeck where
several of the sisters were gathered to meet us.
	Saturday we met with the Relief Society of
Cedar and after meeting drove to Parowan ex-
pecting to reach there in time for the children’s
Primary Conference. However we were delayed
on account of a wind storm so that we were
rather late but had an opportunity to hear a great
many of the children’s exercises, singing, recita-
tions etc., and to look upon their beautiful,intelli-
gent faces. There were a goodly number of them
assembled not only those living in Parowan but
from Cedar City, Summit and Paragoonah;
Kanarra not being represented on account of the
diphtheria which we heard was among the child-
ren at that place.
	The President of the Stake and his Counselors
were present, also many of the parents
which must have been very gratifying to those
who labor in these associations, and we were both
very pleased to see the interest that was taken in
the little folks, and the encouragement given to
the sisters, who have charge of these organiza-
tions.
	The following day the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Parowan Stake was held
occupying both the forenoon and afternoon. The
Presidency of the Stake were present also the
Presidency of the Relief Society of the Stake.
We were entertained at the house of Sister
Richard Benson over night and dined at the home
of Brother Morgan Richards, Counselor to Pres.
Jones, with a large number of brethren and sisters.
After the Conference adjourned we visited the
sick and took supper with the President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Parowan Stake, Mrs. Mitchell.
	We drove over to Paragoonah and met with
the Relief Society in the evening, Bishop Jones of
that place and many other brethren as well as
the sisters were present, we had a crowded house
and an excellent meeting. The following morn-
ing we left Iron Co. to go to Beaver where we
were entertained at Pres. J. R. Murdock’s.
	We met with the Relief Society in the evening
in a sort of general meeting; every one was in-
vited and there were about as many men as wo-
men present. The President of the Stake, also

[Column 2]
the President of the Relief Society of the Stake
Mrs. Lucinda Houd were present, and Mrs.
Houd’s Counselor Mrs. E. J. Bennett who is also
Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake, and
the Presidents of the two branches of the Relief
Society in Beaver City, Mrs. Ruth W. Tyler and
Mrs. M. J. Bickley. We noticed in the audience
Elders Daniel Tyler, Wm. Fotheringham, Benja-
man Bennett and other prominent brethren,among
them Brother Shepherd an old-time Elder in
Israel.
	Tuesday morning we left Beaver accompanied
by Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley and met with
the Relief Socity at Minersville at one o’clock,
after having dined with Mrs. Mary E. Lightner;
at her house we saw Mrs. Elizabeth Gilbert one
of the oldest members of the Church, the widow
of Sidney Gilbert prominent in the days of Kirt-
land and also in the persecutions of the Church
in Missouri. Mrs. Gilbert has just passed her
ninetieth birthday Aug. 7, she is not feeble as one
might expect, she talks well, told us she was bap-
tized into the Church in 1830 and had never been
reproved or brought before the teachers or author-
ities in all those sixty years. That is a good
record to leave when she passes away. Mrs.
Gilbert is the aunt of Mrs. Lightner and of Elder
Henry Rollins.
	After our meeting in Minersville we turned our
faces homeward, arriving on Wednesday morning
Aug. 13, having enjoyed our visit and labors very
much indeed and having been everywhere so
kindly and hospitably welcomed. It is exceed-
ingly pleasant and interesting to travel among the
people and see them in their homes and assem-
blies. The Relief Society and other organizations
are doing great good in the midst of the Saints
wherever they are located.


