HEPHZIBAH.
XXVI.

    In all the shifting scenes and toils of life,
	Where’er her fortune, or her lines were cast;
    Battling for right 'mid all the storms and strife;
	Buoyant and hopeful even to the last.

	The fall and winter following Mrs. Hatha-
way’s arrival in Nauvoo were of special note
in the history of the Church, and each and
every event that transpired made upon her a
deep and lasting impression, as also upon Lucy
Reynolds and her husband, for though they
were staunch Latter-day Saints they were
totally unacquainted with the spirit of moboc-
racy, that pervaded Nauvoo and its suburbs,
and one might almost say Hancock Co., and
the State of Illinois. During that winter the
Nauvoo Temple was so far completed, as to be
ready for ordinances, and this seemed to arouse
the evil passions of the wicked mobs beyond all
reason; persecution raged to the very extreme,
and an exodus of some of the Saints, especially
the leaders of the Church and their families,
was talked of early in the winter. So many
occurrences took place about this time that it is
impossible to do more than barely touch upon
them; and that is perhaps sufficient for the
story we are writing.
	The Saints who were in good standing were
anxious to receive their blessings in the beauti-
ful Temple that had been built at such great
expense, under such trying circumstances, and
while many of those who worked upon it were
so poor they were scantily supplied with the
necessaries of life, yet they had toiled on, de-
termined to finish the Lord’s house. Brigham
Young, who by virtue of his position as Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve was really
the leader of the people, was desirous that as
many of the Saints as could, should have the
privilege of the blessings to be given in the
House of the Lord, while there was still an
opportunity granted them, for prophet as he
was, he foresaw the hindrances that weuld fol-
low; and day after day the Temple was
crowded with brethren and sisters. It was a
grand and beautiful sight and one that can
never be forgotten while memory lasts, not
only inside the magnificent and holy edifice,
but to see the Saints flocking up the broad
steps and to the doors of the Temple as we had
read of in ancient days during the short time
they were permitted to work therein.
	Hephzibah had many excellent opportunities
of becoming familiar with the highest and
most exalted principles and truths pertaining
to the Gospel, as well as to the great and grand
work which was being performed in the
Temple; and it really seemed that she had been
mysteriously led without her own volition into
a channel of association whereby she might
obtain certain great blessings and privileges
not only for herself, but for her mother; who
was such a devout and faithful exemplar of
the first principles taught by the Elders and
also so intelligent concerning the prophecies of
scriptures, which she had so carefully studied.
Coming to Nauvoo at a time when one great
event was crowding thick upon another, with-
out being known except by a few, she (Mrs.
Hathaway) would not have had the privilege
of going into the Temple as she so much de-
sired, had it not been that the way had been
opened for her through Hepsie’s misfortunes
and sorrows, that had thrown her into the
[column 2]
society of those who “went in and out of the
Temple day and night.”
	Hepsie realized now it was in her power to
get the privilege of Temple ordinances for her
dear mother who had been so zealous and
earnest an adherent to the Gospel ever since it
was first preached in the little country village
in New England, though she had not had the
opportunity of gathering to Nauvoo in the
life-time of the Prophet, and hearing his voice
for herself which she had so ardently desired.
	It was a great comfort to Hepsie that she
could assist her mother in this way spirit-
ually, even at the time, but in years after-
ward she realized more fully, how surely the
hand of Providence, had guided her in ways
she knew not, and against which her spirit and
her pride had. wofully rebelled, though she
had kept silence, and none knew except her-
self the struggles she had undergone in her
heart and soul.
	All this time she had heard nothing from
the Harvey’s, and she knew now that she had
hoped against hope, with regard to Harold.
She felt confident in her own mind that he was
dead, though no word or message came save
the still small whisper down in the depths of
her own soul, which told her plainly that she
was free and at liberty, to make choice of
another if she so desired. She did not know
whether she cared for this freedom or not, she
had passed through so many trying ordeals,
that she seemed only to think of peace, she
had been so completely subdued and remolded
that she was not sure if she still possessed any
of the romantic characteristics of former days.
She had given up everything; all her girl-
friends, all her associates, and once she had
thought that weuld be impossible; even Lucy
Reynolds seemed more her mother’s friend,
than hers; what did it all mean? Mrs. Hatha-
way quickly discerned after her arrival the
great change that had taken place in Hepsie,
though she rejoiced that it had increased in-
stead of lessening her faith.
	“Hepsie,” she said one day when they were
alone together, “what has made such a radical
change in you? It seems incredible to me, (and
I am your mother,) that you should have lost
your ambition to be a writer, or teacher, your
poetical taste, your aspirations for fame, that
we once thought so firmly rooted and grounded
in your nature from early childhood, can you
explain what has caused it? Is it Harold's un-
faithfulness?”
	Hepsie’s lip quivered, her eyelids trembled,
her whole soul convulsed with peculiaremo-
tions; she knew not what to answer, but feel-
ing as she always had her mother’s superiority,
and recognizing her right to question, she col-
lected her scattered thoughts and replied
hastily. “Don’t question me, mother, I can’t
bear to talk of these things now, everything in
this world has changed for me; henceforth my
religion shall be my all.”
	Mrs. Hathaway never questioned Hepsie
again, but she saw and felt that she was
absorbed as it were in something that engrossed
her thoughts and occupied her mind to the ex-
clusion of all else, and she remarked to
Lucy Reynolds (now Mrs. Adams) one day
when they were talking. “Can you tell me
Lucy, what has come over Hepsie to work such
an entire change in her?” “No,” replied Lucy,
“unless it is the Temple work and the exalting
nature of the principles taught by the Apostles
and Elders concerning a spiritual exaltation


