EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Letters received from President Zina D. H.
Young since her arrival in Canada inform us of
her improvement in health and that she has at-
tended meetings of the sisters there and is enjoy-
ing, her visit among the Saints. She does not ex-
pect to remain away from here very long, will
probably return early in September.
	On Friday the 18th of July in company with
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, we attended the Relief
Society Conference of Davis Stake held at Kays-
vllle. Mrs. Susan Grant President, and her
Counselors Mrs. Mary S. Clarke and Mrs. Lucinda
Brown were present, also many other leading
sisters and some of the brethren of that Stake.
There was a representation from the Relief
Society of nearly every ward and their reports
made a good showing. We dined at Mrs. Sarah
Layton’s Pres. of the Relief Society of Kaysville,
and had a very pleasant time of social conversa-
tion. Mrs. Layton is in delicate health, but
spiritually alive to her duties in the office to
which she has been called and set apart. The sisters
in that Stake seem to appreciate the privileges of
the organization, and to be making good progress
in their work.


Mrs. Rachel Grant gave a sketch of the Relief
Society in Manassa where she had been visiting
recently, and of the disadvantages under which
the sisters labor who are so far from the centre
stake of Zion. The day was an Interesting one
and we trust profitable to all those who attended
the meetings.
	On account of circumstances which it was im-
possible to control and which cannot be explained
here, there was no issue of the paper on the first
of this month, although the number of the paper
will be the same as if it were dated August I, and
the volume will contain the twenty-four num-
bers, as we shall make up the missing one during
the year, so that no one of the subscribers need
feel wronged, and we earnestly solicit a greater
interest on the part of agents and Presidents of
the Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
those who are connected with the Woman Suff-
rage Associations, and ask them to take into con-
sideration the fact that the Woman's Exponent
is their organ of representation; that it has pub-
lished in their interest always, and for nearly
eighteen years was also the organ of the Young
Ladies’ Associations. We do not hesitate to say
that it ought to be well patronized by the women
of Zion, whose interests it has ever maintained
and now that the subscription is reduced to one
dollar per year, it must be within the reach of al-
most, if not quite, every home throughout the land.
The Relief Society wherever organized cannot
afford to do without it, because it is their official
organ and all special or general instruction is
given in its columns. Each one learns what
another branch of the Society is doing, as well as
each Stake, and thus they are enabled to work in
greater harmony. There are many reasons why
the paper should be better sustained and more
widely circulated, and we sincerely hope the
sisters in the various localities appreciate the
benefits of having a paper of their own and
will renew their diligence to make it all that they
desire.


