[column 1]
through sacrifice, that she seems to think so
far in advance of all the learning and wisdom
of the world.”
	Shortly after the conversation between Mrs.
H. and Lucy, Hepsie said to her mother in a
sort of casual way, “the leaders of the Church
and their families are preparing to leave
Nauvoo and go forth into the wilderness to
seek a place of refuge from their oppressers, as
the Pilgrims did, only instead of crossing the
sea, they will go over the great American
desert.” Mrs. H. looked up from her sewing
in surprise exclaiming, “and do you think of
undertaking this journey?” .“Why, mother
would it be such a dreadful thing to do? there
are many young women going, and there is
nothing to hinder my trying a new experience,
there will be plenty of toil and hardship con-
nected with it no doubt, but to travel through
an unknown country will be interesting in the
extreme!” “And do you take into consideration
that you will be leaving your mother and all
your own kindred?” And Mrs. Hathaway al-
most broke down as she said it Hepsie had
scarcely seen her mother weep in her lifetime,
and it was almost too much for her, she had
not thought she would take it so to heart, and
it was a few minutes before she could reply,
and when she did, it was with a great effort she
maintained her composure, but she felt she
must speak out, and choking down her sobs and
looking up at her mother’s sorrowful face, she
said “Something tells me I must go mother,”
and before she could finish the sentence her
mother interrupted her saying, “and some-
thing tells me if you go we shall never meet
again.” By this time mother and daughter
were both in tears; it was indeed a trying scene,
Hepsie felt as she had expressed herself that
she was impelled to go by some irresistible
force, and she hoped to make a satisfactory ex-
planation to her mother, though it almost
broke her heart to be separated from her again
so soon. Words seemed powerless to express
her feelings and her great love for her mother
made it very hard for her to decide,and yet the
whisperings of her own heart were all the time
urging her forward.
	Lucy (Mrs. Adams) coming in put a stop
to the conversation for a few minutes, but ere
long Lucy said “Hepsie is it true that you are
going away to Upper California beyond the
Rocky Mountains?” Hepsie made no reply.
But Mrs. Hathaway who was specially anxious
to know what had made Lucy inquire, said ex-
citedly, “Who says Hepsie is going away?” “O,
Brother Kimball says so, and I’ve heard others
say it too, I thought ’twas all settled, I only wish
I was going, but we can’t go yet, but we’ll be
sure to follow after.” Then you approve of
this move and expect that all the Saints
will go as soon as they can?” Mrs. Hathaway
said, anxious te know what her opinion was.
"Most certainly, why Brother Kimball says
its the grandest move the Church has ever
made, there they’ll be free to worship God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, with none to molest or make afraid.”
“I am very glad to hear Brother’s Kimball’s
views, I know they must be correct, though that
does not reconcile me to parting with Hepsie,
and I am not prepared to go now in such haste.”
“It is not expected that widows will go with
young children this winter,” said Mrs. Adams,
who seemed as anxious to tell all she knew
about the matter as Hepsie was to keep silence
on the subject, “but the Church will send for
the widows and children, the aged, and those
who cannot go now, as soon as they get located.”
	“Really Hepsie are you going, because if
you are I’m sure you are expecting to be
married again.” Hepsie was now fully aroused,
no one had ever mentioned marriage to her in
presence of her mother, and she resented
such an insinuation, as though it were an in-
sult; in the bitterest tone she said, “Lucy
[column 2]
Adams how dare you talk to me like that, am
I not already married, and have I not suffered
enough for a lifetime?” "O, as to that,” re-
plied the incorrigible Lucy, “you were never
so desperately in love with Harold that it need
to hinder you from marrying again, and in all
probability he’s dead anyway, I saw his brother
the other day, and he declares Harold is dead,
or he would have come back before now, for
he wrote him a letter and said, he would come
back for you within a year if he lived, and the
year is long past now.” Even Mrs. Hathaway
felt this was too much upon such a painful
subject, and addressing Mrs. Adams, said “you
are simply torturing Hepsie beyond all en-
durance, she has no thought of marriage I am
positive.”	
	What Mrs. Adams had said about Harold’s
death had its effect upon Hepsie, she could
not dismiss the subject from her mind by night
or by day; and she resolved to ascertain if
possible whether he was living or dead.
	After that day Hepsie felt she could never
meet Lucy again and she was anxious to go,
and to get away from all those who would be
likely to mention Harold’s name to her. Mean-
time she made the matter a subject of con-
stant prayer in her heart, as she performed her
daily duties, and she struggled with her feel-
ings to know how to bear the separation from
her mother, which she knew was inevitable if
she concluded to accept the offer she had to go
with the first company, who were to leave the
beautiful city of Nauvoo in midwinter. She
never thought of the hardships to be encount-
ered, the journey had no fears for her; to be
with those who had the word of the Lord,
with prophets and Apostles,to be always gaining
a knowledge of those things that pertain to
eternal life, and the advancement of the Lat-
ter-day work was her object. She tried by
persuasion and entreaty to reconcile her mother,
believing in her heart and assuring her, that
she would by going forward herself, be able to
advance her interests and help her more than
if she stayed behind. “I am no longer a child,”
she said, “but able to think and act for myself
relying upon my Heavenly Father for guid-
ance and protection.


