[column 1]
Services commenced by singing "Lord we
come before Thee now." Prayer was offered
by Pres. William Budge, singing again; the
roll was called and minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved; the statis-
tical and financial reports were then read
The various branches of the Relief Society in 
the Stake were represented by the Presidents,
the reports were very complete and satis-
factory.
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting in this beautiful building,
thought it a credit to the stake. She had 
listened to the reports of the sisters with
pleasure, did not know of a time when they
were represented so well, urged upon the
sisters the necessity of attending to their spirit-
ual and temporal duties, hoped we realized our
positons as mothers in Israel to, "do good to
all" made many other remarks comforting and
encouraging to all present.
	Pres. William Budge spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters, said through all our perse-
cutions there is a source of enjoyment which 
man cannot give. The only way we can
stand the assaults of our enemies is by in-
creased diligence. Thought that attending to
the poor was the first temporal labor for the 
sisters to perform.
	Singing "Praise God." Prayer by Elder 
Dalrymple.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., singing "Softly beams the
sacred dawning," prayer by Bishop Price, sing-
ing "Earth with her ten thousand flowers."
The sacrament was then administered.
	Coun Elizabeth Collings said that through
the blessings of God we would be able to stand
all the trials we are called to pass through;
and to gain His blessing we must obey His
laws, mothers in Israel should teach their
children to honor their Father in heaven and
all to whom honor is due. Bore her testimony
to the truth of the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt thankful for a name
and standing in the kingdom of God. "There
is a dark cloud hanging over us, but the Lord
will be on our side if we are energetic in our 
endeavors to serve Him."
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt pleased with the
reports from the young folks, also to have Sister
Alice Rich with us again after her long afflic-
tion and to hear her acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all her sufferings; all the trials we
pass through only help to strengthen our faith.
	Stake Pres. of the Primary Association,
Annie Laker made a few very appropriate re-
marks.
	Pres. Geo. Osmond and Bishop Price each
gave some very good instructions and en-
couraged the sisters in their labors. Singing
"When shall we all meet again." Benedic-
tion by Elder H. Finley. 
	LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec. of Stake R. S.
		UINTAH STAKE P.A.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Primary
Associations of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Stake House, Vernal, June 2nd, 1890. Pres-
ent on the stand; Pres. Abigail Oaks, Second
Counselor, Anne Hacking, Sec. Caroline A.
Stringam of the Stake Officers. Also the
presidents of the several ward Associations, 
with their counselors, members of the Priest-
hood etc. Conference was called at ten o'clock
a. m. by Pres. Oaks: singing by all present,
prayer by a little boy of Ashley Association,
Ashley Bartlett. Singing.
	An excellent programme was then rendered
not one failing to respond. Interspersed
through the programme were reports from the
different associations of the Stake, which were
more than usually favorable.
	The exercises of the children were well nigh
perfect, and if space permitted we would like
to have given them all especial mention. As
[column 2]
it is we will speak of a few of the smaller
children.
	A song by Emma Freestone 6 years of age
of Ashley Ward Association was sung in the
sweetest manner, also a song entitled "The little
Church by the Hill" was sung by four little
girls of Merrill Association. Their voices
chorded charmingly, and it was indeed a joy
to listen to them.
	Two little girls of Mill Ward Association,
Pearl and Myrtle Johnson, aged respectively
four and six years, sang a dear little hymn
about the coming of the Savior, Myrtle ac-
companying on the organ. A song entitled 
"Gentle Smiles" by Willie, Pearl, and May
Timothy of Riverdale Association was sung in
such a lovely manner that pen would fail to
describe the heavenly music. Also a recitation
entitled "Mother's Darling" by Jennie Johnson
a little dot of a girl from the same ward, was
rendered in a most charming manner.
	The opening prayer in the afternoon was
offered by Zina Stringham a little girl of Mill
Ward Association three years of age, her little
voice was heard in all parts of the house, and
the audience responded with a fervent amen at
the close of the prayer.
	"Beautiful Home" was sung by Edie Wardle
of Glines Ward, her father and mother assist-
ing her, Brother Orson Calder accompanying
with organ. This was a beautiful song indeed
sung by well trained voices.
	Instrumental pieces were rendered by child-
ren from the several associations, and without
doubt showed considerable skill.
	Robert W. Winner of Mountain Dell Asso-
ciation gave us a solo on the Violin, which
was highly appreciated.
	Little Zina Hacking, six years of age, sang
"Little drops of water"her father (Pres. James
Hacking) accompanying her on the Organ.
	A dear little couple, Susie Marlow and
Amasa Packard, of Merrill Ward sang very
sweetly together and the recitations, dialogues,
essays, etc., of the remainder of the pro-
gramme were rendered in an excellent manner.
	Bishop George Freestone of Ashley ad-
dressed us during the afternoon. The sub-
stance of his remarks were as follows. Was
highly gratified with the manner in which the
children had recited. Years ago, he had
noticed people that placed their children for-
ward at every opportunity that presented it-
self. Thought at that time they were over
zealous, but had lived long enough to change
his mind. For he could point out children of
these very people that had grown to be noble,
useful members in the kingdom of God. "Our
children if trained when young, are not apt to
depart from the teaching they receive. Our
children have the principles of the Gospel in-
culcated into their minds, from the teachings
they receive in these Primary Associations, 
while older persons are often surprised to find
that they can receive instruction on important
matters from these little children. It is too
much the case, that the greater burden of
training these children, rests with the officers
of these associations, this should not be,
mothers send your children to Primary, go with
them when you can, and always assist the
officers with your faith and prayers and every
means that may be within your power." Felt
to bless all connected with this noble work. 
	Pres. Abigail Oaks, felt well repaid for at-
tending this conference, said that those that
had had the training of the children had done
well, "may we ever train them in truth and
righteousness." Thought that shortly our
house would not begin to hold the children.
	Gave out the next conference for the third
Saturday in September, called for five exer-
cises from each ward, and for reports to be
ready by the 1st of September.
	Thought it advisable for each ward in turn
to lead the singing, and choose the songs for
[column 3]
our ensuing conferences. The Ashley Associa-
tion to choose for the next conference.
	The Stake Officers were then sustained by
unanimous vote as follows, Abigail Oaks, Pres.
Elizabeth Bingham, First, and Anne Hack-
ing, Second Counselors, and Caroline A.
Stringam Sec.
	We felt to tender our hearty thanks to our
Chorister, Brother Thomas Bingham, also to
the Stake Organist, and Brother Orson Calder
their efficient aid.
	The conference closed with singing by all
present and benediction by Pres. James
Hacking.
	It was without doubt the best conference we
have ever held.
