LINES.
[TO MY DEAR MOTHER ON HER SEVENTIETH ANNI-
					VERSARY.]
	Seventy years have passed away
	Since you first beheld the light of day.
	Our Heavenly Father sent you here
	A widowed mother’s heart to cheer,
	A father’s love you ne'er did know,
	To guide your feet as they should go.
	Some cruel fate his path had crossed,
	And he was to his loved ones lost.
	
	Your noble mother, with grief most wild,
	Found comfort in her darling child;
	And with a mother’s love did strive
	To teach her child how she should live.
	The Gospel light soon bursting forth,
	You both did find and prize its worth;
	And comfort found beyond the grave,
	This Gospel promised souls to save.

	When you had grown to womanhood
	A companion found both true and good,
	Life's battle with him o’er fifty years
	You've shared amid its joys and tears.
	Like other Saints, from home were driven
	For espousing a pure religion.
	Vile, wicked men in mobs arose
	And proved that they were Zion’s foes.

	The martyred Saints full well you knew
	And you're a living martyr, true.
	'Twas thought a battle would take place,—
	Your friends and mobs stood face to face;
	Did you not start to friends to fly,
	With them to live, or with them die?
	And when the flag of truce displayed
	You realized those Saints were saved.


The mission was filled by a noble band.
Freedom's banner waved on this very land.
While you my dear mother, untiringly striving
For your own little ones was gaining a living.
When father returned he did not long rest
'Till he found you a home in the distant West.
'Twas thought, were the Saints on a far off sod,
Their foes would allow them to worship their God.

The Church has grown, thousands gathered,
For saving souls missionaries labored.
Societies formed in Utah's fair land
Are working together with heart and hand
To comfort the sad and aid the distressed
That all the afflicted may truly be blest.
While you, my dear mother, with unceasing zeal
Have ever put your shoulder to the wheel.

Your wise counsels your colaborers heed
And surely are prospered in each valiant deed.
And by their works do honestly prove
They are engaged in a labor of love,
They with your family meet here today.
With hearty good wishes we fervently pray
That your Seventieth birthday all may enjoy
And care and sorrow not come to annoy.
				ALICE M. J. TANNER
Beaver City, U. T., 25th Feb. 1890.


