(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.)

	There is nothing so grand as work:
	Labor, all labor, is noble and holy;
	Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God!
	
	Work is not great because many people have
heard that we do it- Work is great because it
is done in a royal spirit.  Work is getting to
be aristocratic; and not to work, dishonorable.
It is not uncharitable to say that a person who
does nothing is a drone in the hive, and does
not amount to anything.  It is the sweat of
the brain and the sweat of the brow that
makes us Somebody with a capital S, instead
of Nobody with a capital N.  Then let us be
glad that we are workers with God who never
ceases in His benefactions. We live in a
world where every insect and bird and creature
is always doing something, because to do some-
thing is to be happy; and so when the time
comes that the true aristocrat shall make the
world something like a home,and not altogether
like a desert; when they come to their kingdom;
when they have the opportunity for the culture
of their minds as well as the development of
their hands, which they ought to have; when
there are no grades in society except grades of
moral excellence, grades of industry, grades of
intellectual nobility; when there is no wealth
that makes aristocracy,  but when what
we are, what we have done, fixes our place in
the world, then I believe we shall see the world
that Christ came to bring.  We are going to
[column 2]
see it far sooner than we think, because we are
living in a time when ideas get around almost
as quick as a flash of lightning.  Every throb
of sympathy from the heart towards such as
the “white slaves,” every outraged sense of
justice that ever stirred a human heart, has
helped to bring about this great time of
deliverance.  We have talked a great deal
about charity.  I am glad to live in a day when
we are talking something about justice.  We
women want justice.  All the laboring man
wants is justice and fair dealing.  All that
these “white slaves” ask is that they shall not
be slaves; that rich men shall not give so much
to a school, so much for building a chapel and
so much for missions. as if they were great
Christian philanthropists, yet all the time put
the thumb-screw on these poor girls.  That
has got to be done away with.  Peoples eyes
are being opened.  God grant that the doctrine
of Christ, which is “fair dealings to others as
you would yourself be done by,” may come to
every workingman and woman in America.
	And yet the Nation is full of real Christian
men and women who “deal justly, love mercy
and walk humbly with God.” They heed the
voice of Christ in its tender cadences saying:
“And all ye are brethren!” God grant their
number may be multiplied!  Even men of the
world admit that London’s four hundred city
missionaries mean more for peace and quiet
than four thousand police would mean.  Even
infidels admit that McAll’s Mission in Paris
prevents barricades and riots by teaching the
French workman a more excellent way to the
brotherhood of which he dreams.  For the
book of peace and goodwill says: “This is the
fast that I have chosen, that ye break every
yoke.”
	Let me give you my “shorter catechism,, of
political economy from Ruskin: “There is no
wealth but life.  Life, including all its powers
of love, of joy and admiration.  That country
is the richest which nourishes the greatest
number of noble and happy human beings;
that man is the richest who, having perfected
the functions of his own life to the utmost, has
also the wisest helpful influence, both personal
and by means of his possessions, over the
lives of others.  A strange political economy
founded on self-interest being the fulfillment of
that which once brought schism into the
policy of angels and ruin into the economy of
heaven.”
	Dear friends,
	Your bark is wafted to the strand by breath Divine,
	And on the helm there rests a hand other than thine.

Other than yours—that steadfast, loving hand
of Him whose hand was pierced for you and
for me, who shall one day hold the scepters
of the world, who cared not for Himself, but
whose very prayer was for us all.  There is
no “I” in the Lord’s Prayer, it is all “We;”
it is all the Brotherhood of Man and the
Fatherhood of God.


A lawn party was given to Miss Susan B.
Anthony in Indianapolis on July 25th, in aid
of her work in South Dakota. The committee
having the affair in charge were: Mr. and Mrs.
E. C. Atkins, Hon. and Mrs. Joseph E.
McDonald, Mr. and Mrs. George Merritt, Dr.
and Mrs. H. G. Carey, Mr, and Mrs. Franklin
Landers, Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Kregelo,
Mr. and Mrs. Stanton J. Peele, Mrs. Mary
McKenzie and Mr. and Mrs. Theodore L.
Sewall. Speeches were limited to five minutes;
Mrs. Sewall made some bright and vigorous
remarks; and among other speakers were:
Rev. H. A. Cleveland, Mr. John L. Griffiths,
Mr. Augustus L. Mason and Mr, Alfred F.
Potts. Music lent its charm to the occasion.
								Ex.


