OLD FOLKS DAY.

	We often hear this remark: the bitter and the 
sweet are mingled in this probation or life and I
think the remark quite an appropriate one. But
on Old Folks Day it was vice versa, there was
far more aweet than bitter.
	Having arrived at the age of of 70 years I was
anxious to see how many people were living who
crossed the plains 42 years ago; knowing so
many had passed behind the veil during this
period of time.
	I was glad to see the Captain of our company
Bro. George Wallace. He was captain of our ten,
[column 2]
Bro. O. T. Smoot captain of fifty. Both are liv-
ing, Glad also to see Sisters Nebekar and Dewey
or Woolley, they looked charming yet, but their
husbands had passed away and are with eleven of
the apostles, some who were captains of a hundred
wagons and familes. Bro. Taylor was one, Bro.
Parley Pratt was also one. In the year 1847 we
followed the Pioneers. They started in April,
and our companies the first of June. They arrived
July 24th, we about September 15th. But I must
not forget others. One was Perigrene Sessions
and wife I met on this occasion. He begins to
look aged, but his mother who is 96 looks well
yet. I see her faculties are failing however, (she
was not there.) I would not forget to say the young
people who waited upon the tables looked angelic
in their white and bright colored dresses, with a
blue ribbon upon the left arm, and a white cap
with a blue bow etc. but their countenances
brightest of all beaming with love and admiration
while serving so gracefully at the tables. At
one time after all was over, the music struck up a
tune which gave animation to the young people;
the isles were alive with many of the girls, two
and two waltzing while the tune lasted.
	This shows they were not exhausted by fatigue
on this occasion; although it must have been a
tiresome task to wait upon so many. Four hundred
from the norh besides those from our City and
from the South. It was indeed a great day.
	And what made it still better, were the speeches
from Officials, that honored us with their presence.
I was highly gratified with the speech of our
Mayor George M. Scott, whose remarks I could
hear best. To me it sounded as though every
word he spoke was heart felt.
	Our Governor Arthur L. Thomas seemed in
earnest, but I could not hear distinctly, was glad
to see it in print afterwards which I expected to
do. I was favorably impressed with him when
he was Secretary for Gov. Murray. But realize
that now he is between two fires.
	I noticed Hon. F. S. Richards was applauded
but could not hear why; therefore was glad to
read his remarks knowing as I did that he was
better acquainted with us as a people than the
others who spoke.
	I believe I was more anxious to read Judge
Powers remarks, because I have supposed him
to be our bitter enemy. But I found a great deal
to admire in the article read by him for I noticed
that it was not extempore. I noticed his remarks
were refined and intelligent and respectful to the
aged as a friend to the human family &c. And I
felt to say, could the venom he has manifested
heretofore be extracted from his character he
would make a splendid Latter-day Saint.
	Well, I think this is enough! No not enough.
I was charmed with the hearty good-will with
which which Brother Charles R. Savage gave out the
presents to the old folks who were not able to live
without labor, there were quite a few who re-
ceived presents. But when he called for a man
who had not had a dollar in his pocket for a
month no hands were raised; and again for two
weeks but no hands were raised. This shows
that they were not greedy but rather honorable
men who had lived to become benefited through
the principles taught them by the gospel, which
are uprightness, honor, integrity and truth. These
when perfected will make its possessor a Saint;
because they are the teachings of our Saviour
who was called faithful and true.
			From an Aged One,
