[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams]

Patriotic department. 145 2 1/2 hanks of yarn (5 lb.) 1 pair Red Cross needles, No. 3. Cast on 80 stitches. Knit 2, purl 2 stitches for 4 inches. Knit plain until sweater measures 25 inches. Knit 28 stitches, bind off 24 stitches for neck, loose. Knit 28 stitches. Knit 7 ridges on each shoulder, cast on 24 stitches. Knit plain for 21 inches. Purl 2, knit 2 stitches for 4 inches. Sew up sides, leaving 9 inches for armholes. 2 rows single crochet around neck and I row single around the armholes. 146. KELIJil' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Resolutions of the General Board of the Relief Society. Whereas, We have learned that Christmas packages have been sent to the Utah soldiers containingplaying-cards and tobacco, and Whereas, We the mothers and wives in the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have religious scruples against the use of stimulants, narcotics and the playing of cards. Whereas, We have trained our sons to avoid these demoralizing and degenerating practice; Therefore, be it resolved. That we do protest against this practice of sending tobacco and playing cards to our own soldier sons and brothers. And we hereby condemn such unwise expenditure of means in this time of war-economy. Emmeline B. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, JuLiNA L. Smith, Second Counselor. Relief Society. Mrs. Louie B. Felt, President, May Anderson, First Counselor, Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor. Primary Association. Liberty Loan. So effective were the methods of the Utah Liberty Loan committees that the other states are falling in line with Utah's lead. But what is practicable here because of our splendid Church and Relief Society machinery will not be possible it is feared in other states where our people are not found. Interesting Casualty Estimate. Here are some interesting figures, based on data in possession of the military hospitals commission of Canada. Allowance should be made for the very heavy toll exacted from Canadians during the early stages of the war, when there was considerable blundering and also the handicap of fighting against almost overwhelming odds: The boy who goes to the front has twenty-nine chances to come home as against one that he will be killed. He has ninety-eight chances to recover from a wound as against two that he will die because of wounds received in battle. There is one chance in 500 that he will lose an arm or leg. It is also estimated that only one man dies from disease as against from ten to fifteen in other wars. Only 10 per cent of the Canadians disabled are rendered physically unfit to resume their former occupations.  San Francisco Chronicle.