[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Unusual Mothers]

Unusual Mothers. MRS. MARTHA RUDY. Of Duchesne Stake. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN, REARED TO MANHOOD AND WOMANHOOD. TWO SONS IN THE ARMY. The subject of this sketch, Mrs. Martha Rudy, is the seventh child of John G. and Martha Davis Timothy, born August 3, 1862, on the plains, enroute from Wales to Salt Lake City. The hardships endured were identical with those suffered in the tedious journey of the early pioneers. When the family landed Brother Timothy had a wife, seven sons and a daughter, but never a dollar in money. Times were hard and work was scarce, but all survived and they lived, successively at Salt Lake City, Lehi, Wallsburg, Round Valley and Vernal. At the age of eleven, little Martha had her patriarchal blessing under the hands of Patriarch Levi Hancock. It promised her many desirable blessings among which was a long life, "until the winding up scene," and that she was to be a "mother in Israel." She was married Dec. 10, 1879, to Alma Gardner to which union were born John Alma, La Prele, Alice, Rhoda, Mabel, Janette and Cora Belle, all of whom are married and rearing families, except Rhoda who died of pneumonia at Vernal at the age of 8 years. There are 23 grand children. As may be imagined the hardships endured were great, incident to their removal to Ashley Valley at that early time, 1881, but their condition was reduced to almost abject want and despair, by the sudden death of her husband while at work on a copper prospect north of Vernal, now known as the Dyer Mine. 
 Out of her sorrow she gathered strength and courage; set bravely to work washing and learning carpet-weaving, resolved to face the world supporting herself and seven helpless little ones, with the labor of her own hands. But by the kindness and esteem of her relatives and friends, of whom there were many, the burden was lightened; the family kept together and well supplied with the necessaries of life. In May, 1891, her burdens were shared by J. P. Rudy, a transient school teacher whom she married. To this union were born ten children: Cornelia, Lloyd, Czar, Gala, Owen, Olive, Thelma and Delma (twins), LaRue, and Wanda. Wanda is now 11 years old. The children are all well, enjoying the best of health, being mentally and physically able to compete with their fellows and take their places among the best citizenship. Lloyd and Czar are both drafted. The latter is now in Camp Lewis. Contrary to the custom of today, all the children were born into the world with the services of midwives, it never being necessary to call a physician. One hundred and fifty dollars will easily cover all these expenses and subsequent medicines up to date. It must not be thought that the ways of the world were not laid bare nor understood. Many kindly disposed yet worldly and irreligious women went out of their way to explain how foolish she was to have so many children. It was even pointed out to her that it was a sin to bring so many children into her existing condition of poverty. She bravely, however, defended her course and spurned the unholy advice. She not only reared her seventeen children but she had in her care for four years, three of her son John's children, whose mother died, leaving a baby three months old, a boy, a little girl of two and another boy of four. This was done at a time when her body and mind really demanded rest and quiet, but she stoutly refused propositions to separate the children or allow them to be taken elsewhere. Mrs. Rudy is now living on their homestead near Ft. Duchesne, which is under development, with her husband and six children. She is doing all her own work, sewing and all, without any help other than that of her children who are attending school. She is strong and in good health, just now working strenuously to dress the children and get things ready for a visit, all by herself, to her daughter, LaPrele Hoeft, in San Francisco, California. She is a living witness to the false notion that childbearing lessens the vitality and shortens a woman's life. On the contrary, UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 133 she insists it is the only safeguard against wrinkles and premature old age. Her advisers are almost withered away. JESSIE McNIVEN TAGGART. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN, FIFTEEN LIVING. Jessie McNiven Taggart was born Feb. 7, 1853, in Edinburgh, Scotland. Her mother, having accepted the gospel, emigrated to Utah in 1861, crossing the ocean in the ship Underwriter. The girl Jessie, was very, very sick on the ocean and several times she was at the point of death. President Charles W. Penrose was a passenger on the ship and said that this girl had an important mission to fill in the earth and promised she should live. She arrived in Salt Lake City in September, 1861, in Homer Duncan's company. The family moved to Morgan county, the same year and went through the hardships of the settlement of that valley. She was married to George H. Taggart, September 26, 1870, in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City. She is the mother of ten sons and six daughters all of whom have grown to man and womanhood except one son, who died when about twelve years of age. All are married except three sons, one of whom is now secretary of the Swiss and German mission at Basel, Switzerland. This splendid mother has fifty-seven grandchildren living. They are an exceptional family, all being gifted in music and singing. No deformed or weak children, or grandchildren, in this family, and all are active in the Church. She was a teacher in the first Relief Society organized in Morgan county. She was then fourteen years of age and has been a member from that time to the present, fifty years. She was counselor in the Cowley Society for a number of years and president for eight years. She is still an active Church worker and many sad hearts have been made lighter by her presence in the sick room or where death had entered and taken away some loved one. ANNIE JENSEN FIELDS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Annie Jensen Fields, of Pleasant View, Weber county, Utah, was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, April, 7, 1871. She was married to Jefferson Fields, in 1889, and is the mother of 16 children; three are dead and three are married. She is now 46 years old and quite well. Her ten unmarried children are all at home. Sister Fields lived in Idaho for three years; the remainder of her married life has been spent in Utah. 
 She has never taken any part in Church affairs, and seldom attends Church. In fact, she has never taken any part whatever in public life. MRS. ELIZABETH A. FARMER BUTTERFIELD. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Elizabeth A. Farmer Butterfield was the daughter of James and Sarah Trussler Farmer. She was born October 17, 1848, in Rygate, England. She was married to Almon Butterfield, January 27, 1866, and is the mother of 16 children. At the present time she lives in Herriman, Utah. OUR ANNIVERSARY. By Coral J. Black. We meet again, this blessed and happy day, To place Love's laurels on the hallowed shrine Of those who opened fair Advancement's door To womankind, led by the hand Divine. Thrice blessed was he, our Prophet, brother, friend, Who looked with vision clear adown the years And saw the wondrous fruit of that small seed Fostered with love, and sanctified with tears. Thrice blessed those women who first trod the path Before whose intellect and faith our bondage fled, For thrice ten thousand women of today, With heart and spirit, follow where they led. Thrice blessed was she, endowed by Holy Love, Poet and bard  fit queen of such a band  Whose spirit, dauntless, rose to every task Nor quailed beneath the Adversary's hand. Thrice blessed be our President, whose snowy hair Shines like a halo round her dear sweet face, Pattern and guide for us to emulate: God grant she long may fill her wonted place. Then ever onward, upward, let us strive, United always, in our joys or tears, Remembering it was given us to lead Woman's triumphal march adown the years.