The General Board is delighted to welcome Mrs. Marriott back into the ranks of stake officers. Relief Society Veteran Called. Mrs. Marilla Miller Daniels passed away on January 27, at Provo, Utah. Mrs. Daniels was the daughter of Aaron Johnson, former bishop of Springville. She was born October 12, 1830, in Connecticut. Mrs. Daniels went to Nauvoo when a small girl where she became intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and wife, Emma. Mrs. Daniels was an active member of the Relief Society in Nauvoo and has continued a NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 155 faithful and devoted member for over seventy years. She was formerly a member of the Stake Presidency of the old Utah stake, where she was thoroughly appreciated and greatly beloved. Mrs. Daniels was also prominently connected with woman suffrage and was a delegate to the twenty-seventh annual convention. German Genealogy. The General Board is very pleased to announce the publication of a genealogical lesson book written in the German language. The book is entitled Genealogisches Aufgabenbuch und die Deutschen Familiennamen. It was translated, compiled and arranged by Mrs. Gertrude L. Baird, one of our earnest, energetic and devoted genealogical students. The book is divided into two parts. The first part is, with a few exceptions, a translation of "Lessons in Genealogy," published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. It includes also sample pages of the Family Record (for the living), as well as instructions on how to gather and record information in the Temple record, and sample pages of Temple sheets. It also includes a diagram, showing Relationship (page 20) and a diagrammed pedigree. The book contains an explanation of the German books in the library of the Utah Genealogical Society and of other printed German books. The experiences of our Swiss agents, Julius Billeter, Carl Nemelka, and Miss Marie Haselmann, who have done considerable research work in Germany, are described. The second part of the book tell