[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Keep Your Eye on the Mark]
KEEP  YOUR  EYE  ON  THE  MARK. 
When  the  ancient  archers  trooped  forth  to  try 
The  their  skill  with  taut-drawn  bows  and  feather- 
Charge,  tipped  arrows,  they  were  charged  sternly  by 
the  Captain  of  their  host — "Keep  your  eyes 
on  the  mark !"  They  were  to  look  neither  to  the  right  nor  to 
the  left,  to  allow  no  soft  allurements,  no  confused  motives,  no 
internal  or  external  irritation  to  interfere  with  the  steadiness 
of  gaze  and  the  fixity  of  allignment.  Keep  your  eye  on  the 
mark,  was  their  watchword. 
In  the  olden  days  of  this  people's  history, 
In  Piocneer  the   pulpits   rang  with   stern   advice   to  the 
Times.  Saints   in   Kirtland,   in   Nauvoo,   in   Winter 
Quarters,  across  the  trackless  plains,  and  in 
the  dreary  forbidding  vales  of  Utah :  Saints,  keep  your  eye 
on  the  mark !  Let  no  worldly  voices,  no  contention  about  you, 
no  selfish  striving  within,  blind  your  eyes  or  dull  your  souls. 
Keep  your  eye  on  the  mark! 
So  now  in  the  midst  of  wild  and  confusing 
And  issues,  worldly  plaudits  and  fierce  personal 
Today?  desires  and  ambitions,  we  mothers  and  wives 
in    Israel    must    constantly    cry    out    aloud,

EDITORIAL.  165 
"Keep  your  eyes  on  the  mark!"  There  is  only  one  mark  for 
us — the  mark  of  perfection  in  Christ  Jesus,  according  to  His 
own  revealed  plan.  Love,  meekness,  unselfishness,  and  above 
and  beyond  every  other  striving,  obedience  to  the  priesthood 
in  whatever  rank  of  life  we  live  and  struggle!  This  is  our 
mark.  What  are  the  motives  of  those  who  cry  in  the  market 
places,  lo  here,  and  lo  there.  Here,  follow  my  plan  and  war 
will  cease.  Help  in  this,  join  in  that,  and  thus  win  the  war. 
There  is  a  voice,  a  still,  small  voice  that  sounds  not  in  the 
thunders  of  war  nor  in  the  pelting  rain  of  pitiless  personal 
ambition;  in  the  stillness  of  the  night  whispers  that  Voice — 
"Come,  follow  me !"  Help  me  to  save  souls — on  missions — in 
tj.'e  sacred  temple  courts — at  the  altar  of  birth — in  the  ranks  of 
consecrated  war  where  panoplied  with  pure  lives  and  holy 
motives — building  Zion  and  strengthening  her  stakes — "Come, 
follow  me,  ye  pure  in  heart,  for  ye  shall  see  God!"  Are  we 
keeping  our  eyes  on  this  mark? 
KEEP  ON  KEEPING  ON. 
I  was  weary  of  bearing  my  heavy  load, 
I  was  worn  with  my  burthen  of  care. 
So  long  had  I  trudged  on  life's  dreary  road, 
I  abandoned  myself  to  despair. 
I  was  faint  and  weak  and  weary, 
My  courage  and  strength  seemed  gone, 
When  a  precious  message  came  to  me. 
That  said,  "Just  keep  on  keeping  on." 
In  an  instant  my  cares  all  vanished, 
I  was  filled  with  faith  and  joy, 
I  decided  to  "keep  on  keeping  on," 
Regardless  of  ills  that  annoy. 
Though  Hfe's  skies,  at  times,  seem  dreary, 
I  drive  care  away  with  my  song. 
Go  "cast  on  the  Lord  thy  burdens," 
And  "keep  on,  keep  on   keeping  on." 
Annie  G.  Lauritzen.

Guide  Lessons. 
•  LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
First  Week  in  April. 
PROPHECY  AND  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 
The  present  crisis  has  turned  the  Hme  light  on  much  ancient 
prophecy.  However  significant  predictions  from  the  Bible  or 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  may  be  at  this  time,  it  is  safe  to  say 
no  word  of  prophecy  has  in  it  more  of  hope  and  comfort  from 
the  standpoint  of  our  national  life,  than  the  prophecy  found  in 
n  Nephi  10:10-14: 
"But  behold,  this  land,  saith  God,  shall  be  a  land  of  thine 
inheritance,  and  the  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  this  land. 
"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles, 
and  there  .shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto 
the  Gentiles. 
"And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God. 
"For  he  that  raiseth  up  a  king  against  me  shall  perish,  for 
I.  the  Lord,  the  K'ng  of  heaven,  will  be  their  King,  and  I  will 
be  a  light  unto  them  forever,  that  hear  my  words." 
Germany's  attempt  at  world-wide  domination  is  not  the  first 
attempt  threatening  the  Republican  forms  of  government  of  the 
New  World. 
During  the  60's.  Maximilian,  the  Austrian  archduke,  brother 
of  the  late  Francis  Joseph,  of  Austria,  inspired  and  supported  by 
Napoleon  HI  of  France,  accepted  an  imperial  crown  and  set  up  a 
government  in  the  City  of  Mexico. 
Mexico  had  become  involved  with  Great  Britain,  France  and 
Spain  in  relation  to  the  treatment  of  their  subjects  and  the  pay- 
ment of  certain  claims.  In  order  to  get  proper  redress  these 
nations  landed  a  military  and  naval  force  in  Vera  Cruz. 
Secretary  Seward  warned  them  on  behalf  of  the  United 
States  against  any  attempt  to  acquire  territory,  which  warning 
France  saw  fit  to  treat  with  contempt ;  thereby  causing  the  with- 
drawal of  Great  Britain  and  Spain. 
France  dared  to  strive  for  the  acquisition  of  territory  be- 
cause the  United  States  was  then  in  the  throes  of  her  civil  war. 
Flowever,  the  termination  of  the  war.  making  it  possible  for  the 
United  States  to  stand  back  of  any  demand  she  might  make.  Sec- 
retary Seward  sent  the  following  dispatch  to  John  Biglow,  Amer-

GUIDE  LESSONS.  167 
ican  minister  to  France.  The  date  of  the  dispatch  is  Decem- 
ber 16,  1865 : 
"It  has  been  the  President's  purpose  that  France  should  be 
respectfully  informed  upon  two  points,  namely: 
"First— That  the  United  States  earnestly  desire  to  continue 
to  cultivate  sincere  friendship  with  France. 
"Second — That  this  policy  would  be  brought  into  imminent 
jeopardy  unless  France  could  deem  it  consistent  with  her  interest 
and  honor  to  desist  from  the  prosecution  of  armed  intervention 
in  Mexico  to  overthrow  the  domestic  Republican  form  of  gov- 
ernment existing-  there,  and  to  establish  upon  its  ruins  the  foreign 
monarchy  which  has  been  attempted  to  be  inaugurated  in  the 
capital  of  the  country." 
Maximilian  had  landed  at  Vera  Cruz  on  the  28th  of  May, 
1864.  From  the  very  outset  he  found  himeslf  involved  in  diffi- 
culties of  the  most  serious  kind,  which,  in  1866,  made  apparent 
to  almost  every  one  outside  of  Mexico  that  he  should  abdicate. 
The  United  States  had  made  its  demands  sufficiently  plain  to  the 
Emperor  of  the  French  that  he  had  withdrawn  his  army,  thereby 
leaving  Maximilian  in  the  most  precarious  position  possible. 
Nevertheless,  moving  the  seat  of  government  from  the  City 
of  Mexico  to  Queretaio,  he  resisted  the  Mexican  forces  for  sev- 
eral weeks.  On  the  15th  of  May,  1867,  he  attempted  an  escape 
through  the  enemy's  line.  He  was  arrested  before  he  could 
carry  out  his  resolution,  and  after  trial  by  courr  martial  was 
condemned  to  death.  The  sentence  was  carried  into  effect  Tune 
19,  1867. 
His  beautiful  queen,  Charlotte,  daughter  of  the  Belgian 
King,  Leopold  I,  had  wandered  from  court  to  court  trying  to 
get  aid  for  her  husband.  At  last  she  broke  down  under  the 
strain,  becoming  insane. 
Many  forces  seem  to  have  been  at  work  to  fulfil  God's 
glorious  promise  to  the  Gentiles  of  this  land. 
The  Monroe  Doctrine  of  which  we  have  heard  so  much  in 
recent  years  has  played  its  part. 
No  one  can  estimate  bow  strong  the  British  navy  has  been 
to  this  end.  It  is  quite  certain  that  before  the  outbreak  of  the 
present  war.  Germany  sought  the  co-operation  of  Great  Britain, 
that  they  might  jointly  enter  Mexico. 
For  Germany  to  attempt  such  a  thing  alone,  would  have  been 
absurd,  with  the  British  navy  to  reckon  v/ith.  To  attempt  such 
a  thing  in  co-operation  with  any  other  European  nat'on  or  nations 
would  have  been  equally  useless  with  the  British  anvy  in  their 
path. How  sure  are  the  prophecies  of  God,  how  complete  their 
fulfilment !     The  prophecies  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  concerning

168  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
the  coming  of  the  Savior  Himself  are  clear  as  a  stream  of  living 
water.  Indeed  the  whole  Book  of  Mormon  is  like  the  people  it 
represents — without  guile,  simple,  direct  and  vividly  personal. 
Reference  to  the  Savior's  mother  is  given,  city  of  her  residence, 
the  name  of  Jesus,  the  new  star  which  should  appear,  His  bap- 
tism at  the  hands  of  John  and  His  complete  life  and  mission. 
These  are  all  prophesied  of  in  the  most  simple  and  clearest- 
manner. 
When  the  great  oriental  scholar  and  lecturer,  Mme.  Mount- 
ford,  was  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon,  she  immediately  called 
attention  to  the  dream  of  Nephi,  "And  I  beheld  the  city  of  Naz- 
areth ;  and  -'n  the  city  "of  Nazareth  I  beheld  a  virgin,  and  she  was 
exceedingly  fair  and  white.  *  *  *  And  he  said  unto  me. 
Behold  the  virgin  whom  thou  seest.  is  the  mother  of  the  Son  of 
God,  after  the  manner  of  the  flesh"  (I  Nephi  11 :13,  19). 
"No  one  but  a  profound  eastern  scholar  or  an  inspired  man 
would  have  said  that,  for  oriental  women  always  dress  according 
to  their  social  condition.  A  virgin  wears  one  style  of  clothing,  a 
married  woman  another  style,  and  a  widow  still  another.  An 
imposter  would  not  have  dared  to  make  such  a  statement,  so  your 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  must  have  been  a  scholar  or  an  inspired 
man,"  she  added. 
Still  another  marvelous  prophecy  given  in  that  precious  book 
is  the  prophecy  concerning  the  choice  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  work 
which  the  Prophet  would  do  in  behalf  of  the  seed  of  Nephi  and 
Lehi.  We  learn  through  this  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  direct  descendant  of  Joseph  who  was  sold,  into  Egypt,  through 
his  father  Joseph  Smith,  Sr.,  and  therefore,  he  is  of  the  royal 
blood  of  Ephraim  and  Joseph.  How  precious  is  that  blood,  and 
yet  it  was  spilled  in  Carthage  jail.    The  prophecy  follows: 
"For  Joseph  truly  testified,  saying:  A  seer  shall  the  Lord 
my  God  raise  up,  who  shall  be  a  choice  seer  unto  the  fruit  of 
my  loins. 
"And  his  name  shall  he  called  after  me;  and  it  shall  be  after 
the  name  of  his  father.  And  he  shall  be  like  vmto  me;  for  the 
thing  which  the  Lord  shall  bring  forth  by  his  hand,  by  the  power 
of  the  Lord  shall  bring  my  people  unto  salvation  ; 
"Yea,  thus  prophesied  Joseph,  I  am  sure  of  this  thing,  even 
as  I  am  sure  of  the  promise  of  Moses ;  for  the  Lord  hath  said 
unto  me,  I  will  preserve  thy  seed  for  ever"  (II  Nephi  3  r5-16). 
(Note:  When  class  leaders  or  organizations  feel  the  need 
of  and  can  afford  to  buy  supplementary  books  to  these  Book  of 
Mormon  studies,  there  are  several  splendid  books  which  have  our 
hearty  commendation.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cannon  Porter's  charming 
stories  from  Cities  of  the  Sun  deals  with  Book  of  Mormon  time;,