NOTES FROM THE FIELD Amy Brown Lyman
Annual Dues. Women of the Relief Society will remember that annual dues for 1925, including membership and stake dues, should be paid in January, and not later than February, 1925. They will therefore be prepared to remit the same to the officers or to the visiting teachers. Every stake takes a pride in having the dues sent in on time. Last year Weber stake used a small envelope for collecting dues which was very helpful. Printed on the envelope following the space for the name of donor was this: "My Relief Society dues for year 1924?50c. (The Society must pay for the member who fails to pay her dues.)"
Cottonwood Stake. I At a fair held recently in Brinton ward, the Relief Society, which numbers only thirty members, cleared $131.95, which was turned in on the new chapel. Each pair of teachers of the eight districts was asked to be responsible for the making of one quilt. A house to house canvass was made which resulted in materials for eight lovely quilts, which were duly made. Seven of the quilts brought in $65.50, and the eighth was given as a prize. The apron and notions booths was also very successful, bringing in $66.45.
Snowflake Stake. As a means of publicity for the group convention held in this stake, and in order to insure a good attendance, Mrs. Pearl N. Fish, the stake secretary of Snowflake stake Relief Society, sent out seventy letters announcing the meetings and program, and calling attention to the importance of the gathering. An excellent response was the result.
North Davis Stake. On the 15th of October, the North Davis stake Relief Society board entertained in honor of the ward presidents. The stake presidency, high council, and the bishoprics of the several wards were special guests. The hall was decorated in keeping with Hallowe'en. The program consisted of games and dancing in which all took part. At 10:30 an excellent luncheon was served to 125 people, during which President Emily Brough responded to the toast, "Our Officers,' and the Farmington Quartette furnished special numbers. The occasion furnished excellent opportunity for all to get acquainted.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I (First Week in March)
Theology and Testimony
THE ADAMIC DISPENSATION
The Period?From the Advent of Man to the Translation of the City of Enoch, About rooo Years
Part I?Adam
A. Some LEADING EVENTS
1. The Fall and Banishment?In the Garden of Eden our first parents became estranged from God. Here they took into their systems the seeds of physical death. Here they became like Gods in one particular, knowing good from evil?therefore, moral agents. Here they received the spiritual death-sentence of banishment from the presence of God: 'Wherefore I the Lord God caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death, which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say?Depart, ye cursed." Doc. And Cov., Sec. 29:41. A fulness of the gospel in the Garden seems to have been limited to one ordinance, two commands, and the teaching of the doctrines of obedience, free agency, and penalties. Outside of the Garden of Eden, with a memory of all the joys of Eden, the father and mother of the race found themselves face to face with the double command, 'Replenish and subdue the earth." We have no record of a single murmur from either of them. They had lost Eden, but they had each other. The first ordinance performed on earth which made them one carried over into the heaven-making process of home building. Without the recollection of their pre-existent promise to face thorns and thistles, and legions of spirits who lost their first estate, this single pair faced the fight for existence with no dream as yet of life hereafter or of salvation or exaltation. Among the new experiences came the one of the realization that, '""Absence makes the heart grow fonder," and they found themselves yearning for God * * * They were ready for the first great event outside of Eden,


2. The First Prayer?Adam and Eve prayed not only as children and youths can pray; but as parents only can pray. It appears that as grandparents they sent this petition from earth to heaven. (See Pearl of Great Price; Book of Moses v:2, 3, 4.) To that prayer came an answer, in the voice of God?the voice from which Adam had fled. Was it not in answer to the universal cry of the soul to God, 'Lord, what wouldst thou have me do" The cry that gives evidence of unconditional spiritual surrender to the will of God; a condition in which Jesus always kept himself.
3. The First Sacrifice?The answer to the prayer came. It was a requirement, a gospel requirement. Adam and Eve were to know that "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." They offered the best to the Lord: the best of themselves, their hearts; the best of their possessions, the firstling of the flock. Moses V:5, -. The obedience to the first command outside of Eden has sometimes been called erroneously blind obedience. The sacrifice was an outward test of the inner self; a material test of the spiritual self. Tested and found true, man was ready for the next great event: an official presentation of the redemption part of the gospel.;
4. The First Messenger?An angel, a messenger from God came with the message of eternal life for mortal man: a plan by which banished man may come back into the enjoyable presence of God with an everlasting resurrected body. The revelation of this plan filled Adam and Eve with so much faith and hope that they rejoiced over even the sad experience of the past, out of which the Lord in his majesty and mercy had brought good.
5. The First Baptism?This event completed the spiritual re-birth. It was a free-agency birth, an official birth; they were "born of the water and of the spirit:" "And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. "And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever; "And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity. "Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen." Book of Moses vi:64-67., Closely related to the first baptism was the bestowal of the Priesthood indicated by the contents of verse sixty-seven, above quoted. -?