The Gospel as a Guide During the month of September your editor and her traveling companion attended a threatre in the city of Glasgow, Scotland, where Harry Lauder was featured for the evening's entertainment. His name was responsible for the sale of every seat in the house, far in advance of the performance. Mr. Lauder's costumes proved most attractive, and the scenery, reflecting the colorful landscape of Scotland, with its rich purple hether, was very beautiful. One thing only marred the entertainment; and that was the continual smoking of persons in the audience. Men and women lighted cigarettes at any moment, and such a cloud of smoke arose that the performers could be seen only through the mist. Later, we had a similar experience in London. It was during the production of one of George Bernard Shaw's plays. Men smoked to the right and to the left of us; and directly in front of us, five women sat smoking. England has always been noted for its home life. Today that life is vitiated in the homes, on the steamships, and in the hotels by the smoking of both men and women. My friend and I have had cigarettes offered to us several times in homes where we were dinner guests. There is no use of resenting the offer, on the part of the host or hostess, for many women in Great Britain today, would feel slighted if the host or hostess failed 
 a | to invite them to smoke after dinner. The only thing a woman can do, who dislikes tobacco, is to refuse in a courteous manner. On our way to Paris, a gentleman in our compartment asked us if we smoked, before he ventured to light his own cigarette. Our positive statement that we did not led to a discussion on the subject. We told him that smoking was offensive to us, and that we were greatly shocked to note that it was permitted in some of the theatres in both Scotland and England. His response to all we said was that he was not adverse to women smoking in a drawing room, after dinner; but that he did not like to see her smoke in a theatre or on the street. Doubtless there are many men and women, at the present time, who defend the practice of smoking for both men and women. 'There are, too, many persons who deny that smoking on the part of expectant mothers and expectant fathers is injuricus to the child. Surely it is a matter of satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints to realize that no matter how much the women of the world indulge in this very offensive practice, that the women of Zion will, as a rule, remain sweet and clean; and will become in this matter, as in many others, as a light set upon a hill. Once again, we are reminded that not the least of the blessings vouchsafed to us, through the gospel, is that of proper guidance, that protects us from becoming the dupes of false doctrine and unrighteous practice; for on this subject the word of the Lord says, explicitly, that tobacco is not good for man, but should be used for bruises and sick cattle.