MRS, ALICE MORRILL THE PIONEER MOTHER By Mrs. Alice Morrill, Tridell, Utah, Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Behold her busy at her task—no thought to turn aside nor shirk; Her faith but dignifies her toil; her hope but sanctifies her work; No thought to falter by the way, nor wish to rest from weary toil; A selfish life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, From out despair, has she not marched—the consummation of her quest, To be the peace and solemn, brooding, stillness of the desert west? The love-lit hour of holy prayer a beacon light of heaven shines, And through the silent hours of night she catches harmonies Divine. And yet within her bare, hard life, nor art nor high-born harmony, The unresponsive desert answers not her mute appeal for sympathy, But dares her try her strength to wrest from his bare breast mere sustenance, In this she turns her heart to God and bows to his, Omnipotence. Then goes afield to glean the heads of wheat left 'mongst the clods, And typifies the purpose, born of old, "Thy God shall be my God!" She gathers up her threads of love, and weaves the fabric of her life; Her aspiration but to be a duteous mother, faithful wife. A limitless expanse of wilderness surrounds her cabin home. The sun glares hot and pitiless by day; by night, the weird winds moan. Deep in her heart she makes a grave; lays there her hope of luxury, And gives her life, a ransom for the generations yet to be. Close folded in her arms, she clasps her scant-clothed child and smiles, As visions of his high estate the stillness of this hour beguiles; Alone, beside the couch of pain, she soothes her sufferer till the dawn. Yet looks above the deep blue vault and glimpses heavenly realms beyond. When death's hand snatches from her breast the babe that brought her soul's relief She clothes him in a common shroud with her own hand, and hides her grief. The cold, pale stars and far, white moon look down from out the upper deep, While lonely hill-crags, rising high, their mighty, silent vigil keep. The damp earth floor, whereon she kneels a shrine of worship comes to be, Her plain, hard fare becomes, to her a sacrament of sancitity. A priestess she, and prophetess, of far off, future, glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold, at last, deep watered by her tears. The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest In this issue of the Magazine are published the results of the second Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest. Forty-six poems were submitted. The judges were Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the' General Board, Prof, Alfred Osmond, head of the English department of the Brigham Young University, at Provo, Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of Salt Lake. Oh, White-Winged Gull, written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, cf Provo, Utah, is awarded first prize. Mrs. Alice Morrill, of Tridell, Utah, receives the second prize for her poem, The Pioneer Mother. Honorable mention is given the following poems, Where is Heaven?; A Question, Endurance, and Mother's Evening Prayer. These poems will be published in the Magazine in due time. Leadership Week Educaton for better home life will be the central theme for the fifth annual Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University commencing January 26, according to an announcement coming from the Extension Division. The week will be conducted along the lines followed. In the past but a number of new departments will be added. Among the new departments are: Interior Decorating; Reading for the Home; Training for Priesthood; Psychology of Childhood; Play Production. Other courses will be as follows: Social Welfare; Community Planning; Vocational Guidance; Scout Leadership; Music; Religious Education; Principles and Methods of Teaching Religion; Pageantry; Genealogy and Temple Work; Farmers Conference; Recreation; Foods and Nutrition; Clothing and to Home Health and Sanitation.