[Vol30 | November 1943 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Bible Wisdom]
Current household magazines and daily newspapers -_-  The Bible as Literature Lesson 5Bible Wisdom Tuesday, February 15, 1944 a PVisdom literature rises to its highest forms in the Bible.
This is not to say that other literatures are lacking in wise sayings; there are essays and other forms that are fraught with wisdom. It is rather to emphasize the fact that within the Bible this type of literature receives distinctive attention.
Hebrew wisdom is presented not alone in a book of unforgettable proverbs, but in essays of charming style and profound philosophy: it is also portrayed in the drama of Job that has challenged attention through the ages.
Another thing that gives the wisdom literature of the Bible first place is its spiritual quality.
Something of "Thus saith the Lord" seems to ring through many of the proverbs, even those designed to impress practical lessons of life.
This quality is hardly characteristic of similar sayings taken from folklore of other peoples. For illustration, take a few of these folk sayings: "A stitch in times saves nine." "Handsome is as handsome does." "A rolling stone gathers no moss." "A penny saved is a penny earned." All of these are helpful
LESSON DEPARTMENT 703 704 bits of wisdom, but they come with less force than proverbs from the Bible, such as the following: Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging. A wise son maketh a glad father: But a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. Go to the ant, thou sluggard; Consider her ways, and be wise. My son, forget not my law; But let thine heart keep my commandments: For length of days and long life, And peace shall they add to thee. A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: But the soul of the treacherous shall eat violence.
Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, Than an house full of sacrifices with strife.
Apply thine heart unto instruction, And thine ears to the words of knowledge. Not all the sayings to be found in Proverbs are of the cast and spirit as those just given.
Some of them simply portray.
Facts of life impressively: Faithful are the wounds of a friend: But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. As cold waters To a thirsty soul, So is good news from a far country.
Note the timelessness of the two proverbs just given. How these thoughts find echo today in the hearts of those stirred by the world conflict.
This is characteristic of all the Biblical proverbs. 'They express truth for all time.
Some of the Proverbs contain touches of subtle humor. For example: As the door turneth upon its hinges - So doth the sluggard upon his bed.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINENOVEMBER 1943
There be three things which are stately in their march, Yea, four which are stately in going: The lion, Which is mightiest among beasts, And turneth not away for any; The greyhound; The he-goat also; And the king when his army is with him. Observe that some of these bits of Hebrew wisdom are cast in the form of Hebraic verse. There is a parallel structure, fitting to drive home the ideas expressed. Note also that the parallel structure is varied; sometimes it is of just two lines. At other times, as in the last example given, it is made up of several lines of differing lengths. Another thing that will be discovered by a reading of the Proverbs is the variety of subjects dealt with. At one time the writer discovered more than a score of these wise sayings expressive of the basic thought that to hold the tongue is a mark of wisdom. The sluggard, the busybody, the drunkard, the forward woman, the glutton, the spendthriftall are given scathing reproof. 'Those who fear the Lord, who honor their father and mother, who remember the needy, who deal justly are given praise with promise of reward for righteousness. And the application of each and every truth expressed with concreteness and force is in the living present. Among the apocryphal* books of the Bible is one entitled The Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach. This book, like others of the Apocrypha, was not included by the early Christian fathers as scripture, though it was recommended as worthy reading. It is said that Lord Bacon found his inspiration for his splendid essays in the writings of the Son of *See note at end of lesson.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Sirach.
From the example that follows one can rather readily see similarity in form, at least, with that of the well-known essayist of later days: FRIENDSHIP Sweet words will multiply a man's friends; and a fair speaking tongue will multiply courtesies. Let those that are at peace with thee be many; but thy counsellors one of a thousand. If thou wouldest get thee a friend, get him by proving, and be not in haste to trust him. For there is a friend that is so for his own occasion, and he will not continue in the day of thy affliction. And there is a friend that turnest to enmity; and he will discover strife to thy reproach. And there is a friend that is thy companion at the table; and he will not continue in the day of thy affliction; and in thy prosperity he will be as thyself, and will be bold over thy servants; if thou shalt be brought low, he will be against thee, and will hide himself from thy face.
Separate thyself from thine enemies; and beware of thy friends. A faithful friend is a strong defense; and he that hath found him hath found a treasure.
There is nothing that can be taken in exchange for a faithful friend; and his excellency is beyond price. A faithful friend is a medicine of life; and they that fear the Lord shall find him. He that feareth the Lord directeth his friendship aright; for as he is so is his neighbor also. (Moulton's, The Modern Reader's Bible, p. 962) Another of the books of wisdom one that is among the scriptural works of the Bible is Ecclesiastes. In this intriguing book, ascribed to Solomon, are gems of wisdom well set. It faces life with frankness, dealing with its varied activities, and reading lessons out of them. |; What would seem to be a note of pessimism, of defeat, comes in the opening sentence and essay All is Vanity. Solomon, the Preacher, confesses he has tried everything that might bring joy and satisfaction to man, gathering about him as king all 705 that his heart desired, yet finding these things vain, "astriving after wind" without profit. The book continues with choice philosophic comments. It sparkles throughout with sentences that have become classic, for example: To everything there is a season And a time to every purpose under the heaven.
Better is a poor and a wise child Than an old and foolish king. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. A good name is better than precious ointment.
Cast thy bread upon the waters And thou shalt find it after many days. A search through Ecclesiastes will probably reveal many sayings which have been treasured through life.
Within the book are also a number of choice poems. One of these near its close is a lyric of rare beauty. It begins: Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth: While the evil days come not, Nor the years draw nigh, When thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them; And closes: Then shall the dust return to the earth, As it was: And the spirit shall return unto God Who gave it.
After this poetic expression comes the epilogue, which ends with this uplifting paragraph: Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his 706 commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil.
Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1.
What is meant by the term, Wisdom Literature?
Name two or more books of the Bible that are of this literary type. 2. Be prepared to give one or two folk sayings from other than Biblical literature
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINENOVEMBER 1943 that may be called bits of wisdom literature. 3.
Quote from Proverbs one or two other sayings which you may have treasured as helpful bits of wisdom. 4. Be ready to join with members of the class in finding various proverbs dealing with certain themes, as: Intemperance; Honoring Father and Mother; Avoiding temptation; Holding the tongue; Being industrious. 5.
Find in Ecclesiastes some quotation that appeals to you, and be ready to give it in class. Note: The following is from a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, History of the Church, by Joseph Smith, Vol. I, pp. 331-332: Having come to that portion of the ancient writings called the Apocrypha, I received the following:  Revelation** 1. Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you conceming the ApocryphaThete are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly; 2.
There are many things contained therein that are not true, which are inter polations by the hands of men. Ee OK 4. Therefore, whoso readeth it, let him understand, for the Spirit manifesteth truth; 5. And whoso is enlightened by the Spirit shall obtain benefit therefrom; 6. And whoso receiveth not by the Spirit, cannot be benefited.... **Doc. & Cov., Sec. XCI. What "America" Means Lesson II-Our American Culture Tuesday, February 22, 1944 ULTURE is a word that cannot be defined by some conventional phrase. It is a condition and way of life which grows out of the spiritual influences and forces that are conducive of the higher life of mankind.
When we speak of the culture of a people, we think of their sculpture, painting, architecture, music, literature, and the way they liveand think as a result of their high idealism.
Culture grows out of religion, for it is religion that establishes and sustains fellowship with the divine spirit. A cultured man or a cultured society is a cumulative inward growth, expressing itself in fine thinking and noble activity. It is a LESSON DEPARTMENT cleanliness of heart and spirit, thoughtfulness of others, good manners, an appreciation of beauty.
America has from the first developed those institutions that are conducive of culture.
From the beginning of settlement to the present, American churches in their daily ministrations have always made a silent but constant and powerful contribution to national well-being and prosperity.
Their services keep before the people the highest ideals of manhood and womanhood. 'The church with its Holy Bible is the chief inspiration of the vast social service rendered to the world by the millions of Christians. 'The world is after all governed more by public opinion than by, the written law, and if the ideals of the public are properly molded, then a fine cultured people grows as a result. It has been said that culture is the perfection of our human nature on all its sides, in all its capacities.
Culture considers the spiritual capacities and needs of man. Matthew Arnold, the English writer, holds that the aim of culture coincides with the aim of religion.
Culture aims at the perfection of the human mind and spirit and body. To know the culture of a people or of a person, one must consider their ways of life, their habits, their manners, the very tones of their voice; observe the literature they read, the things that give them pleasure, the words which come from their mouths, the thoughts which make the furniture of their minds. A true culture consists in men forgetting their hopes as centered on the outward and material things of life, and keeping in mind the inward and 707 spiritual setting. All the wise of the earth have cried out against the material ideals of humanity: the philosophers and moralists, the satirists of Greece and RomePlato, Epicttetus, Seneca, and Juvenal, not less than the Hebrew prophets and Christian apostles, up to that divine Voice that said: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" "Nothing shows the culture and idealism of a people more forcibly than does the theater and the writers who make of the playhouse a place of beauty and a stimulus of expression of the highest poetic power," says Professor Brander Matthews. It is to the theater as an institution that the reader's mind is directed at this point.
Since the days of the Greek theater when the plays of Sophocles and Aeschylus were produced somewhat as the plays of Shakespeare are produced today, the theater has been one of the great creations of culture; in turn, the stage has created a culture among all people. The art of the stage has given the public an understanding of literature and the manners of people as has no other art. The rise, progress, and cultivation of the drama mark the progress of refinement and the culture of any people. 'The drama and tragedy have brought about the.
Building of the noble 'theaters of Europe and America and all civilized countries. Who has not heard of Drury Lane Theater in London and Covent Garden? The Royal Opera House of Berlin and the old City of St. Petersburg. And the National Theater of Paris will ever be remembered as the great centers of the 708: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINENOVEMBER 1943 historic art. The first company to come to America to create the art of the stage came in 1751, when one William Hallam was induced to send a group of players to Virginia. The company landed at Yorktown in Virginia and then went on to Williamsburg, the capital of the colony, and Governor Dinwiddie gave them permission to build a theater and produce the first play in AmericaThe Merchant of Venice. Thus, Shakespeare had the first place in time, as in merit, as the dramatist of the western world.
Soon after, September 17, 1753, the first theater was opened in New York City when a company from London produced a comedy called The Conscious Lover. On the night of November 20, the following note appeared on the playbills: N. B.Gentlemen and Ladies who intend to favor us with their company are desired to come by six o'clock, we being determined to keep to our hour; as it would be a great inconvenience to them to be kept out late. In March 1754, a company played the tragedy known as The Fair Penitent in Philadelphia. The players had success and "gained money and reputation," notwithstanding that pamphlets were published and distributed warning the people of the evils of plays, players, and_playhouses.
