[Vol30 | November 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the Cooperation]

Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength Lesson 5Cooperation Tuesday, February 1, 1944
The effort of a single individual may be puny and ineffective, but the combined efforts of many individuals may become powerful and effective. To cooperate with others often multiplies our strength. "No man liveth unto himself." We are all members of a group. One of the great factors in the fine art of living is knowing how to get along with others. To be pleasant to live with is an attractive and much coveted characteristic. It adds greatly to one's usefulness and to one's happiness.
One of the best places to cultivate this spirit of cooperation is in our Church work and one of the best places to practice it is in the home. Where there is a spirit of cooperation in the home, where the husband and the wife, the parents and the children are happily united and all work together, they are able to meet reverses and are pretty sure to succeed. Where there is unity, there is strength.
We recall the story of the old man, who, on his death bed, called his sons about him. Pointing to a bundle of fagots he said, "Take one of them and break it. Take two of them and break them. You see they are easily broken, a few of them at a time, but bind these together in a bundle and try with all your might and you cannot break them." There is strength in unity.
One of the essentials in getting along with people is to enjoy their confidence, and the way to do that is to be loyal to them, to sustain and build them up, to look for the good and express appreciation of it. No one ever got very high by pulling other people down. To pull a person down is the easiest thing in the world. It takes only a small mind to do that, in fact, it is the expression of a small mind.
Unselfishness is another secret of cooperation, of getting along with people. The willingness to give to others, to promote them, to advance their interests has in it something people like. When one encourages and does for those with whom and for whom he works, they will work for him.
One of the basic truths of human life is that we are essentially social. We cannot live alone. We are not Robinson Crusoes. A second great truth is that the individual owes a debt to the community and to the race; and a third is embodied in the ideal of service, "Freely ye have received. Freely give."
Again, the Church is a training school in cooperation which involves the element of service, the desire to do for others, willingness to sacrifice our own interests for the good of other people.
Discussion
1. What are essential factors in effective cooperation?
2. Give illustrations from Church history of the accomplishments of cooperative effort, such as the building of the Kirtland Temple, the erection of ward meetinghouses, the Church Welfare Plan, etc.
References
Handbook of the Relief Society, "By union of feeling we obtain power with God." (Prophet Joseph Smith) p. 22; "Women urged to work together in cooperative manner."
Gospel Doctrine, "The Object of Cooperation," p. 443
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, pp. 275-277.
Relief Society Magazine, vol. 26, August 1939, p.