The University of the Home (Continued from page 660)
strict accountability any son or daughter who casts off an aged father or mother.
All institutions of learning enjoy the inspiration of a well-selected school song. A song that might be appropriately used in the sanctity of the home because it represents the epitome of students' relationship to their Heavenly Father, is, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, over mountain or plain or sea. I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord. I'll be what you want me to be."
And its motto, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it," will prepare the reapers of a questionable future harvest to meet the issues of life, to solve its problems, and to achieve fully a destiny of fruitful service.
For Christmas This Year (Continued from page 676)
bottle of mustard pickles wrapped in red cellophane or other Christmas paper. Tie the package with a ribbon and a little original Christmas jingle and it will be gratefully received in these days of food rationing. One recipient of a pudding last year thought it so attractive she hung it on her Christmas tree.
Speaking of Christmas trees, if you have very few baubles or decorations for a tree this year there are many things that you can make that will be interesting as well as pretty. Strings of popcorn may be tinted with gelatine coloring and alternated frequently with colored peanuts. Popcorn balls or dainty popcorn baskets made with loops of string fastened inside so they can be hung on the tree make attractive decorations, also.
Fancy Christmas bread and cookies can be made in various shapes, such as stars, reindeer, rabbits, airplanes, Santa Claus, nursery characters, etc., and decorated with white and colored frostings and hung on the tree. Use cookie cutters or else cut out your own patterns with a sharp knife. Crochet red mesh bags or miniature stockings to hold candy, nuts, and cookies for the tree, or make pretty little boxes to hold the goodies. One of these containers given to children who view the tree, will delight the youngsters.