[Vol30 | November 1943 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Home Topics Daily and Housecleaning]

560
Home Topics For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods Lesson 5Daily and Seasonal Housecleaning Tuesday, February 8, 1944
Housecleaning need not be the bugbear it has long been regarded in many households. If the kind of furnishings are chosen that are easy to keep clean, if every possible provision is made for keeping dirt out of the house, if work is carefully planned, and if good cleaning methods are used, the upheavals that result in discomfort for the entire household need not accompany housecleaning.
Systematic housecleaning saves labor in the long run, is easier on furnishings, and is economical of material used in the care of the house. Almost every housekeeper has a more or less fixed routine of work, which might be called her plan. It is wise for the housekeeper to occasionally review her work routine to see whether or not her housecleaning is so organized as to be accomplished with a minimum of time and energy. In these days, when competent household help is at a premium, it is wise economy to "make the head save the heels."
To keep clean rather than to make clean is a thoroughly practical working principle. This means daily tidying of the rooms in constant use, distributing the cleaningespecially the heavy kindsthrough the week, and removing dirt not only frequently but thoroughly by methods that have been proved good according to both scientific and practical standards.
Dirt has been described as "matter out of place." Just as weeds in a garden are plants out of place which may eventually choke out the flowers and vegetables, so dirt from the earth, soot and oily smoke which filter into the house or come from heating and cooking equipment may eventually injure the hardiest surface. A thin film of dirt is easily and quickly removed, but when dirt is permitted to accumulate it cakes and hardens, and surfaces may then be damaged by the more drastic measures that are necessary to clean them. Frequent light cleaning is economical in that it reduces the cost of refinishing and replacements.
Dirt may be kept from being tracked into the house by such simple devices as placing mats at outside doors, by daily sweeping of walks and porches, etc. This takes less time in the end than cleaning up dirt after it has been tracked into the house, and it also saves wear and tear on rugs and floors. If wet, dirty, and muddy clothes can be removed in an entrance hall much cleaning can be avoided.
Frequent brushing of outside window sills and the use of cheesecloth-covered screens on windows that are open frequently, for instance in pantries and halls, help to keep out dirt. Covered screens may be used to filter out both dirt and dampness on bedroom windows which are open at night.
The housekeeper must not only keep dirt out of the house, but she must also arrange for the systematic removal of that which enters the house. The easiest way to manage housecleaning is to have a schedule for daily, weekly, and monthly cleaning. (See Lesson I, "Home Management," Relief Society Magazine, June-July, p. 438). Consideration must be given to proper cleaning equipment and supplies. We suggest that the housekeeper visit her hardware stores and see what they have to offer in the way of housecleaning supplies. She may discover a handy clothesline or the latest model of carpet sweeper. Perchance it will be a scrub pail which is light in weight and not cumbersome, or she may find a kneeling cushion which will save aching knees as she scrubs. A stepladder which has a firm base and does not wobble may appeal to her. Perchance she will visit a paint shop and discover the very enamel she wants for doing over some of her kitchen furniture. She may find handy brushes which fit the dusty corners, Venetian-blind brushes, scrub brushes made to fit the hand, scrub cloths, cleaning cloths, and similar articles. It is a good practice to check up on cleaning materials, such as oils, polishes, fine powders, coarse powders, stain and grease removers. Hand lotion should be considered as an essential part of one's housecleaning supplies, and should be kept near the kitchen sink. Keep handy such items as hair pins, a brush and comb, etc. It is surprising what a little freshening will do in the middle of the day when one is feeling very tired. A cool glass of lemonade or a piece af candy will revive the tired housekeeper. Comfortable shoes are a "must have." One should have two pairs at least. The feet will feel like new if shoes are changed in the afternoon. Shoes with run-over heels should never be worn. They can quickly cause a backache. Dresses worn on housecleaning days ought to be suited to the job. They should be washable and simple, but bright. Even for the dirtiest work do not cover the dress with an old, torn 2. List some factors which will contribute toward making daily cleaning easier and less time-consuming; weekly cleaning; seasonal cleaning. Apron. Itis surprising the effect that clothes have on one's attitude toward the work in hand. Antiseptics and first-aid supplies are other necessary parts of housecleaning equipment. The rusty tack, the bent pin, the cracked glass may cause injuries which must be attended to immediately. And finally stop working before you get too tired. About four o'clock in the afternoon make yourself stop working. 3. What will a well-balanced cleaning program include? References America's Housekeeping Book, Sec. II, p. 226
Relief Society Magazine, Spring Cleaning "Planned," February 1943, p. 116
Questions for Discussion 1.
What is an orderly home? Note: In the preview of the Home Topics lessons for 1943-44, published in the Relief Society Magazine, June-July, p. 438, it was suggested that helpful bulletins might be obtained by writing to state agricultural colleges. Relief Society class leaders are reminded that each state has its own Extension Service for the benefit of its own state residents.
Bulletins and pamphlets are not distributed by any state agricultural college to persons living outside the state. 'Therefore class leaders desiring such material should make requests of the Extension Service of the agricultural college of the state in which they live.