VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 No. 2
Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood
By Rose Jenkins Badger.
Hazel Agnes Hill Greenwood was born November 16, 1886 in Mill Creek, Salt Lake County. Her father, William H. Hill, who came here in pioneer days, was of Scotch descent, born in Canada. Her mother was Elizabeth Ann Hamilton. Hazel was the youngest of her father's children, eighteen in number. Of these, seven were her mother's.
I became acquainted with this wonderful family when Hazel was a little girl about eight years old. I was her teacher. When the weather was too severe to come into town at night, I stayed at the Hill home. It was a real privilege to become intimate with this family. One gets a peculiar and valuable training as a member of a large family where there is unity and love. One's nature is unconsciously broadened by learning in babyhood to get along with people, to adjust to others, to fit in readily; and certainly these traits are Hazel's.
Hazel began her schooling in the old frame school house of the 39th District School. Later for two years she attended the Granite Stake Academy. From there she went to the Latter-day Saints High School, from which she graduated in 1906. She was a regular attendant at Sunday School and Mutual. A spiritual awakening came to her while studying the Book of Mormon in Mutual under the leadership of Sister Marie Hazelman.
In the fall of 1907 her father died, and that same fall she began teaching. The first year she taught in Holliday; the three years following, in the 39th District where she first went to school. While teaching in Holliday she met Jacob C. Jensen, a young man of fine character, whom she married in 1910. The next year her son Grant was born. One year later typhoid fever robbed her of her young husband. This terrific blow was made bearable only
 
by her faith. As he left her, she looked out across the fields where she had lived since babyhood, now drab and dismal to her. Said a friend to her, "Hazel, sorrow never leaves us where it finds us." Impressed by this remark, she said to herself, " I shall go back to the school room, but not to teach as I have done, merely to pass a few years away. I shall make of myself the best teacher I can become."
Thus began some busy years?teaching in the winter and studying in the summer. When she climbed the hill to the State University on a hot summer day, the remembrance of the happy, restful, summer afternoons on the farm would come to her. She would wish then that she had used them to better advantage, so that it would not be necessary for her to work so many hours now. By this means, however, she was able to get her life certificate for teaching.
To be a companion her mother gave up her home in Mill Creek and bought a home in the city, taking care of little Grant and making home cheerful and comfortable for Hazel, who was no less devoted as a daughter. In the death of her mother in 1916 sorrow again came to her. It is at such times that one's family is most appreciated. Her brothers and sisters most lovingly tried to help her to readjust her life. They insisted upon deeding the little home to her in addition to her full share in the other properties of her mother. A niece came to live with her to assume the household tasks that grandmother had been accustomed to perform.
Hazel kept her resolve to become the best teacher of which she was capable, doing her work efficiently and faithfully. She made a real home for herself and her boy, besides finding time to do considerable church work. Her experience extended to all the organizations except Religion Class. At this time she was living in the LeGrande Ward.
At the home of a friend she met Judge Joshua Greenwood, who was also a member of the LeGrand Ward. In 1921 Hazel and Elder Greenwood were married. He had two grown daughters at home. Hazel soon won their love, as the Judge gained the love of little Grant. A beautiful home life has been theirs. With the work of her clever fingers Hazel has beautified the house. The broad experience and trained intellect of the Judge have made him a most valuable help to her. He has always had a sympathetic interest in everything she has undertaken. Since her marriage to the Judge she has had the opportunity to travel. She has accompanied him on pleasure and business trips throughout Utah, California, the Northwest, New York and other cities of the East.
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD 59
Now began her Relief Society experiences. She first served as secretary in Liberty Stake, she next served as counselor to Sister Myrtle Shurtliff in the Presidency of the Stake. In 1925 she was made Stake President, resigning to become a member of the General Board. All persons who have worked with Sister Greenwood in the Liberty Stake agree that her leadership was outstanding. The qualities that contributed to this leadership were congenial personality and unusual tact. Good will and harmony was the prevailing tone of the board over which she presided, and as a result the cooperation was of a very high order, due in large measure to her own temperament.
She comes to her new position on the General Board, well trained, and with a deep-rooted love for the gospel. She loves Relief Society work. She is full of energy. Efficient, dependable. One of her co-workers says that under the most trying circumstance she is always good natured. As president of Liberty Stake, Sister Greenwood put over the Relief Society program in a strikingly intelligent manner. During the beautification campaign she concentrated on better and more beautiful Relief Society rooms. As a result of her work the meeting places for the Relief Society in the wards of Liberty Stake are conspicuous for comfort and good taste. She had her heart set on improving the class work of the Stake and in that project was very successful.
All Relief Society workers know that welfare work can hardly be approached let alone accomplished unless there is fine cooperation between the Bishops and ward Presidents and others who may be doing welfare work in the wards and stakes. Sister Greenwood was unusually successful in bringing about this cooperation. She also stimulated the reading of standard Church Works, the response to this idea being practically general.
In summarizing her work we would say: she exhibited the ability to maintain harmony among her workers; and was fearless in defending the right. She is in very deed a true daughter of her splendid pioneer parents and a worthy representative of a real Latter-day Saint family.
Mrs. Greenwood and Mrs. Kearnes Honored
Honoring Hazel H. Greenwood, their former well loved President, and Ovanda Kearnes, Welfare Class Leader, the Liberty Stake Relief Society Board entertained Saturday, January fourth. A prettily arranged luncheon took place at the home of Ruby Henderson on Michigan Avenue. All who had worked with Sister Greenwood on the Stake Board were guests. Between courses limericks written to the two honored guests were read and at the close of the luncheon gifts which were symbols of the love and esteem in which Sisters Greenwood and Kearnes were held, were presented to them. Liberty Stake wishes them success for the future.