	PLEASANT GROVE.

	Mrs. Emily C. Bullock called the meeting to
order and moved that Mrs. Elizabeth Brown
preside; the motion was carried, and Miss Pau-
line Brown and Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart were
chosen Secretaries. After singing and prayer
Pres. Mrs. Brown explained the object of the
meeting—to protest against the anti polygamy
petition, and declare our sentiments in regard
to our holy religion. Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters
then read the petition referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. Margaret Walker a com-
mittee of seven was appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, viz. M.
Walker, Lucinda Harvey, Mary A. Street, E.
C. Bullock, Elizabeth Harper, Susannah Wool-
ley and Mary A. Pratt.
	During the absence of the committee the
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Mary A.
Phelps. Mrs. Laura Liston, Mrs. Pres. Brown,
Mrs. F. E. Stewart, Mrs. E. Walker[-] and Mrs.
E. Hawley, who each made a few remarks on
the subject of plural marriage, and entered a
protest against the action of the ladies engaged
in the Crusade against us.
	Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters read her sentiments
in an ably written address which she had pre-
pared for the occasion. It was directly to the
point, in defense of the principle of plurality of
wives.	
	Miss P. E. Brown said: "I am proud of my
birth in Utah and that I have been reared in
polygamy. From my earliest recollection my
father has been a practical polygamist, and
were it necessary I would raise my voice in
protest to the kings and queens of the earth
against having our sacred family ties severed
as one portion of our family is as dear to me as
another. We are much obliged to our neigh-
bor sisters for their seeming sympathy, but
would advise them to keep it till solicited."
	Miss Clara Halliday: "I am proud to state
that I am a polygamist by birth as well as be-
lief. I know my parents are sincere in their
religion and its practice[-] and though we may
not have the advantages of book knowledge
equal to some of the children of the world,
we have the Spirit of God to teach us wisdom."	
	Miss Rosa Brown; "I too am a child born in
polygamy, and I am proud to declare it to the
world. I look upon my father as a man with
whom the Lord is well pleased because of the
integrity of his heart in keeping his com-
mands, and feel to pity those who are striving
to deprive us of our inalienable rights, and
would ask them to move wisely and petition
Congress to admit Utah as a State, which her
people have so long merited."
	Mrs. Hannan Woolley, Karren Heisett and
many other ladies raised their voices in earnest
protest against this anti-polygamy movement
which threatened the rights we hold so dear.


The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	Closed with singing and benediction.
