	NOTES AND NEWS.

	It would severly tax the memory of the
oldest inhabitant," to recall a more dis-
tructive and wide spread storm than that
of last week.  From all parts of the Middle
Atlantic and New England States, as well
as the St. Lawrence Valley, come distress-
ing accounts of its ravages.
	A train was wrecked at Sewall's Falls, on
the Montreal Railroad, on the night of the
10th, by a wash-out; and on the Central
Vermont Railroad a train was throwu into
the gulf of an undermined culvert near Bar-
tonsville, killing instantly two persons and
fatally injuring another, while several
others received serious injury.
	The destruction of railroad and highway
bridges by freshets was enormous.  All the
large river courses were the scenes of the
greatest damage.  The Upper Delaware and
Susquehanna were swollen many feet above
their highest water-mark.  In the State of
New York the Hudson and its tributaries in-
undated the towns on their banks, inflicting
immense loss, destroying canal locks, large
and small vessels, barges and dwelling-
houses, and sweeping from wharves and
docks all kinds of moveable property.  Hun-
dreds of families have been rendered tempo-
rarily homeless.
	The storm extended across the Atlantic,
leaving a heavy fall of snow on the south-
west coast of England.  On the twelfth the
heaviest snow storm known for years pre-
vailed through Central and Western Mis-
suri, Iowa and Kansas.  The depth varied
from three to thirty-five inches.  Railroads
are generally obstructed.  The Mississippi
was bridged by ice at Rock Island.
	"The Watchman" Dec. 19, 1878
	Boston Mass.
	PETITIONS tor the Sixteenth Amend-
ment should be sent as early as possible to
Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, Washington,
D. C. 

[Column 2]	
	MARTHA WASHINGTON was the only wo-
man who ever enjoyed the franking privi-
lege in this republic.  April 3, 1800, after
her husband's death. Congress gave her free
use of the mails during the rest of her life.
	THE GRAND duchess of Hesse Darmstadt,
Princess Alice of England, died on Satur-
day, December 14th, of diptheria. The
grand duchess was the third child and sec-
ond daughter of Queen Victoria.  She was
born April 25, 1843. Her father, the late
Prince Albert, died on Saturday, December
14, 1861.
	THE PROJECT of a railroad across New-
foundland, that would shorten by one thou-
sand miles the ocean voyage from America
to Europe, is being agitated.  Among the
incidental benefits of opening such a rail-
way, is named the vast deposits of copper,
iron, coal, nickel, lead, and other minerals,
and the cut through the immense pine and
spruce forests of the island.—Ex.
	THE ELEVENTH Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Lincoln Hall, 9 and D streets
Washington D. C. the 9, and 10, of this
month. The Association invites women
from all parts of the Country.  Letters for
the Convention should be addressed to Cor-
Sec. Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, care of El-
len H. Sheldon No. 7, Grant Place Wash-
ington.  The Convention is one which we
feel greatly interested in and trust that the
struggle now being made by the brave
hearted women of America, to promote the
elevation of the sex and bring woman up to
the side of her brother man as a help-mate
and co-partner in all that pertains to the
best interests of both may result in victory;
and that when woman has the ballot
through-out this great nation, there may be
a diminuation of grog shops and dens of in-
famy "that bye and bye" there may be a
reign of peace on the earth.
	STATISTICS OF WOMAN'S LABOR.—The
Massachusetts report of statistics of labor,
in many respects a valuable and interesting
volume, makes one extraordinary mistake.
In summing up the non-producing or inde-
pendent classes in Massachusetts, it counts
up, together with 1,787 "retired from busi-
ness," 5,691 "infirm," and 505,905 children
under fifteen years of age, the item extra-
ordinary of 328,198 housewives.  Apropos
to this fiction that the housekeepers are a
"supported" class, comes the journal of one
day's work by a farmer's wife, who believed
in the seventeen hour law, and who never
struck for higher wages than her board and
clothes. "Rose at 4.30, skimmed the milk,
fed the chickens, got breakfast ready at
six.  Dressed the baby, washed the dishes, 
made the beds, killed the chickens, baked,
ironed, got the dinner.  After dinner went
to the field and dropped corn till it was
time to get tea.  After tea, put away the
milk, washed the dishes, fed the chickens,
sewed buttons on the husband's shirts,
mended the stockings, watered the house-
plants, crimped the ruffles on baby's Sunday
frock, and left off at 9.30, having forgotten
nothing, that ought to have been done ex-
cept patching the hole in the mitten."—
New North West.


