PRESERVED FLOWERS. 

	I took from its safe-keeping place the
other day, a small box containing, among
other little mementoes of my lost children,
a couple of little sprays of flowers, now
withered and yellow and dry, but which
were fresh when I took them—one from
out the little baby hands which clasped it,
the other from near the soft round cheek
against which it nestled, and I thought how
many such sprays there were kept by sorrow[-]
ing mother-hearts, made dear beyond all
price, because they were the last earthly
things touched by the tiny hands of little
ones gone before.
	Although carefully and sacredly kept,
these precious relics of a joy known and
lost must soon crumble into dust, and
little by little be lost; and I thought of a
plan of which I had heard for keeping
these mementoes, and, perhaps, it may be
as new to some of your readers as it was to
me.
	Not only can these flowers from off the
still bosom of some loved lost one be kept
fresh and bright, but the symbols of happier
occasions as well.
	The flowers should be fresh, and of
white or delicate colors. the green leaves
should be separated from their blossoms.
Place in a perfectly clean vessel a quantity
of the best quality of paraffine, and put
this vessel in another containing hot water.
when the paraffine is wholly melted, dip
each flower separately into the wax taking
care that each part is covered with the
mixture. A coating is thus formed, which
excludes the air, and still allows the flower
to retain its freshness. Leaves should be
treated similarly, but the wax should be
colored green, as near in shade as possible.
Chrome green, lightened with chrome
yellow, is, I think, nearer than anything
else to the desired tint. The flowers and
leaves can then be arranged in clusters or
crosses or wreaths, and placed secure from
dust and flies, either under a glass globe, or
in a deep frame made for the purpose.
	Flowers are said to be preserved by m[-]re-
ly smoking them with sulphur, after the
mode of bleaching hats, that is, to suspend
the flowers in the fumes arising from burn-
ing sulphur, which should be con[-]n[-]d by
means of an air tight box.
	To photograph leaves procure a little
bichromate of potash, with which make a 
strong solution. Soak a piece of letter-paper


in a little of the liquid, and place in the
dark to dry; it should then be yellow in
color. On it place the leaf or fern to be
photographed, and under it a piece of soft
black cloth, and several folds of newspaper[-]
place all between two panes of glass, and
secure well, and place in bright sun rays.
In a few hours a perfect impression will
have been received. The paper must then
be held under the water-tap until the yel-
low has become perfectly white; when this
is carefully dried, the process is complete.
	A pretty and novel receptacle for ferns,
dried grasses, or autumn leaves, can be made
out of a cow's horn by boring a hole through
the ends, in which put a couple of brass
rings, suspend by a brass chain on a ribbon,
it makes a very pretty holder, either for
articles named, or for a little vine growing
in earth or water. The horn should be
boiled to cleanse it properly.
		American Home.


