		         CONTINUED.

	We learn to understand human nature by
being brought into close connection with
each other, and more especially when under
trying and difficult circumstances; and we
seldom think more unkindly of persons
from gaining an insight into their real
hearts and character.  Instead of my opin-
ion of women being unfavorable or my feel-
ings unkindly in consequence of being inti-
mately associated in family relationship
with them, I am more favorably disposed
to women as a class, learning more of the
true nature of woman-kind than I ever
could without this peculiar experience; and
I am willing and ready to defend enthusi-
astically those of my sisters who have been
genuine enough and who possessed sufficient
sublimity of character, to practically live
the principles of divine faith, which have
been revealed in these the last days, in the
establishing of the kingdom of God upon
the earth.  It has required sterling quali-
ties indeed to battle with the opposition on
every hand, and not be overcome.
	That this is God's work and not man's
should be apparent to all those who are ac-
quainted with the history of the saints,
their persecutions, their trials, their diffi-
culties, and the marvelous means of their
deliverance, - when dangerous and various
untoward circumstances environed them.
	My husband built a comfortable dwelling
house on Parley Street in Nauvoo, but still
we endured many privations, which in our
own home in Ohio would probably never
have fallen to our lot; but we always felt
we must be thus tried to prepare us for fu-
ture exaltation, and that we might be able
to participate with those whom God had ap-
proved and owned, who "came up out of
great tribulation."
	Every one acquainted with the history
of our people know the terrible results of
the apostasy of "Bennett, Foster and the
Laws." Joseph Smith had no peace, his life
was sought continually by his enemies, and
this was the occasion of constant anxiety
and trouble to the saints.
			To be continued.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
