AMERICAN FORK.

	A Mass Meeting of the women of this
city was held in the meeting house Dec. 14,
1878. to protest against the Anti-polygamy
crusade of our Gentile sisters.
	Meeting was called to order by Mrs. H.
Crompton, on whose motion Mrs. Mary
Hindley was elected Chairman. Mrs. E.
Tracy and Mrs. E. Featherstone Sec's.
Choir sang, prayer by Mrs. C. Shelly.
	Mrs. M. Hindley explained that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to express our
views and sentiments, and to protest against
the measures entered into by the Gentile
ladies of Salt Lake City, to rob us of our
homes, our husbands, and the franchise;
and the inestimable right of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own
consciences, and this by our own sex in
this boasted land of freedom, the land of
our nativity and adoption. It behooves us,
my sisters, to rise up against this wicked
interference, and give them to understand
that we know what we are doing, and in
whom we trust, and that we will not tame-
ly submit to have our rights trampled upon. 
Mrs. Featherstone then read the Circular
to the Clergy and the Memorial to Congress
of the ladies opposed to polygamy. The
following ladies were then chosen to draft
resolutions: L. Harrington, E. D. Clarke, C.
Shelley, J. Hindley, A. Mowley, M. Mott
and M. King. After the committee had
retired Mrs. M. Hindley addressed the
meeting. My Beloved sisters: You all
know that our city has been canvassed by
two girls seeking aignatures to a petition
against polygamy. This is in accordance
with the Circular to the Clergy, and who
has signed it? a few poor weak women and
some children, who know not what they
are doing, but who will yet be sorry for the
course they have taken, and some of these
have been our sisters, gathered here for the
same purpose as ourselves; O! how I pity,
them, what will be their anguish when they
realize the nature of their crime. We know
that our husbands are men of God, faithful
to their trust, and their embracing this
principle has been in obedience to the reve-
lations of heaven, and we will ever defend
that holy and pure principle, which is cal-
culated to raise the human family from its
fallen and degraded condition, to one more
elevated and noble; even to dwell with our
polygamic fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
I have lived in this holy order twenty three
years and I am proud of it, and of our
children born of other wives, and I love
them as if they were my own. I know that
my companion wives are good and virtuous
women, and I join with you in protesting
against the interference of those who are
not of us, and against Congress making
laws to deprive us of the privilege of
worshiping God according to the dictates of
our own consciences.
	The committee returned with the Reso-

[Column 2]

lutions, which were similar to those of the
ladies of Salt Lake and Provo. Mrs. M. T.
Smoot, Mrs. H. Crompton, Mrs. A. Kelly,
Mrs. C. Shelley, Mrs. L. E. Harrington,
Mrs. J. Durrant and many more of the sis-
ters expressed their willingness to sustain
the principle of plurality of wives. The
testimonies were earnest and pointed and
carried with them a firmness in the princi-
ple of Patriarchal marriage which could not
be gainsayed; also several of our young
ladies expressed themselves proud that
they were the daughters of plural wives.
The Reslutions of the Committee were put
to vote and unanimously adopted. Meeting
adjourned sine die. Choir sang. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Mary John.
	Emma Fetherstone, Ass't Sec'y.


