EDITORIAL NOTES.

 WE have received minutes of Ladies Mass
Meetings at Heber City, Wallsburg Fairview
of which we shall publish a synopsis.  We
have been obliged to lay over R. S. Reports
to give place to the notices of the Ladies
Meetings.
 We take this opportunity to tender our
warm and sincere thanks to Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage for her excellent article "The
Utah Question" published in December
number of "The National Citizen and Bal-
lot Box."  Mrs. Gage is an earnest deep-
thinking liberal-minded woman who is not
afraid to stand up heroically and speak out
fearlessly for the right.  She is working in
a noble cause, for the elevation of women.
"The National Citizen and Ballot Box" is
the Exponent for the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and we would be
glad to see it prosper sufficiently to enable
its proprietors to publish it weekly, as the
cause in which it is issued is one which de-
serves a large and liberal patronage.  Suc-
cess to the Ballot Box and its able editorial
staff.
	THE ladies of Salt Lake County have pub-
lished ten thousand pamphlets of the Mass
Meeting of Mormon Women held in the
Theatre in this city, Nov. 10, 1878.  These
pamphlets are now nearly all distributed in
the United States and Europe, and some of
the islands of the sea.  They speak for the
veritable women of Utah, their real senti-
ments on the subject of marriage.
	The women of Utah are conscious the eye
of the world is upon them, and they are
also conscious that the eye of the Lord is
upon them.  We felt much wounded by
the course pursued by the Gentile ladies of
this city in entering upon this crusade, but
believe now that it will result in great
good, in awakening a deeper interest on
the subject of Mormonism throughout the
world, and the greater the opposition the
more discussion and investigation will be
brought about.


In Great Britain there are 11,000 women
telegraph operators, who earn from $5 to
$11 a week.
	A Quaker, riding in a carriage with a 
fashionable lady who wore a profusion of 
jewelry, heard her complain of the cold.
Shivering in her lace and jewels, she ex-
claimed, "What shall I do to get warm?"
"Really I don't know," replied the Quaker,
solomnly, "unless thee should put on an-
other breastpin.


