WOMEN OF ZION.

Where fifteen hundred women thronged,
	To answer back a listening world—
A people by their kindred wronged,
	'Gainst whom men's bitterest threats were buried;
'Gainst whom all hearts did seem at war,
	From women at their firesides' cheer
To men whom nations' rulers are—
	I, listening, their words did hear.

Here, where from persecution's might
	The poor, or titled exile, found
A home, and did in love unite,
	And by most solemn pledges bound,
By legacy their country blessed
	With right of "life, liberty,
And the pursuit of happiness"
	To their free-born posterity.

Ere yet have passed away from earth
	The last sons of that century grand,
The sacred record loses worth,
	And "might, not right," uplifts the hand.
And while scarce yet have died away
	The words our patriot grandsires spake,
Their ingrate heirs ignore, to-day,
	And strive the sacred will to break.

How proud the nation's sons to pay
	Their homage to its hundred years!
And welcomed to the natal day
	The titled guests of both the spheres.
But we, the outcast heirs, must wait,
	Disowned, despised, without a voice
In her proud hall, "outside the gate,"
	While strangers at the feast rejoice.

Have patriot's children right to speak?
	Have martyr's children right to pray?
Then we, the hunted, hated, weak,
	Something in our own cause may say.
Shall it count nothing unto us
	That our great grandsires fought and died
For our land's liberty, because 
	Our creed from their's may differ wide?

I saw, among the multitude,
	Women from every Christian land—
E'en from the islands' solitudes,
	And from the India's heathen strands—
Who left the idol and the cross,
	Drawn by the Gospel's sacred spell,
To follow Christ; nor count it loss
	To do His will, whate'er befel.

I saw, and knew the histories
	Of those who rank had laid aside,
And choosing God's high mysteries;
	With bleeding feet crossed deserts wide,
Drawing their hand-carts day by day.
	Through wind and rain and bitter snows,
'Til, famine-stricken by the way,
	Their comrades' graves like furrows rose.

Heritage of ancestral lands
	And ships at sea they counted nought;
But kneeling on the barren nought;
	Oft on dry crusts His blessing sought.
And women, driven from their own hearths,
	Fleeing before a mob's decree.
Have 'neath the bleak sky given birth
	To heirs of our grand liberty.

And cradled in their wagons rude,
	Rocking o'er trackless prairies wild,
Each breathed the free air's balmy mood,
	And grew to manhood, God's own child.
And can the souls thus forged in fire
	Of outraged laws and human woes,
E'er wear the bonds of tyrant's ire,
	And all their mountain freedom lose?

Beside America's dead sea
	Their weary pilgrimage did end;
And in the desert's heart set free,
	In the red man did find a friend.
And from the parched and salted ground
	Invoked the slumbering life to wake;
And from the mountains old and brown
	The hidden crystal springs to break.

Then answered to the hand of toil
	Fair garden homes and forest fields;

[Column 2]

And e'en the canon's rocky soil
	To man her silvery treasure yields.
But scarce these blessings are secured
	Ere those we could not dwell among,
Ignoring all we have endured,
	With envious eye and venomed tongue

Survey the scene, and with well feigned
	Sense of shocked honor, and of fear,
Issue throughout our broad domain
	A call for holy crusade here.
But undismayed, and trusting HIm
	Who led them through the trial-path,
Though memory-pangs the eye might dim
	They heard God's praises in man's wrath.

Nor feared to speak, though well they knew
	What test their words must undergo;
But strong in heart, with purpose true,
	Their reasons for their faith dared show.
And brave as their colonial stres,
	Who cast aside the British yoke,
The smouldering embers of the fires,
	Patriot and martyr, in them woke.

And men and women, foes at heart
	To what these women dared to speak,
Heard truths that pierced them to the heart,
	And drove the quick blood to the cheek
Remember, then, O ye, who heard
	Words Zion's daughters spake that day;
Nor hush the impulse that they stirred,
	Oppression's cruel hand to stay.

