	A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	From how many thousand lips will go forth
that old time salutation, "A Happy New
Year." Ushering in another space in the great
journey of time, and of each individual life,
—and bringing its round of seasons in its train
to bless mankind with "seed time and har-
vest," opening with the day the world celebrate
as first in the record of the year. This is the
time when almost all feel to renew their lives,
to make a better record, to guard themselves
more carefully from evil, and cleave more to
good. The heart goes out in generous hospi-
tality to friend, or foe, and the larger charity
which fills the soul with kindness manifests
itself in cheery smiles, pleasant words and
good deeds. 
	It is a pleasant practice, and one which
should be highly regarded, for it brings much
that is cheering into the wearisome lives here
below. These delightful re-unions inspire the
heart with an elevated tone of feeling towards
the universal brotherhood of man, and inad-
vertently, as it were, draws people nearer to-
gether, giving them a slight foretaste of the
time when all shall love one another.
	At the close of the old year one is likely to
revert much to the past and indulge in regrets
which are of but little avail although they are
usually linked with resolves, which often prove
as idle as the regrets themselves. What is
wanted to make one better satisfied with life
is vigorous exertion in the path of duty and
rectitude; because what is regretted cannot be
repaired after the time has past. Therefore, let
the past be a pathetic record, to speak in tender
reproach of the mistakes and follies which
may have been committed, and the future the
clear page on which may be inscribed a better
record, if there is moral courage and physical
activity to execute that which the heart de-
sires.
	It is useless to carry about the skeleton of a
dead past. The present and the future are the
themes which should more especially engage
the attention. Memory, to be sure, is ofttimes
a pleasant companion, but she inclines one to
(waking) dreams if her company is courted,
and life is too busy to admit of much day-
dreaming.
	The new year has come—ah! how fast the
years one after another are sweeping into the
great fathomless sea of eternity. Well may
one pause on the threshold of the new year
and take as it were a lingering farewell of that
which is past, fruitless as it may be. Farewell,
old year: thou hast faithfully served thy pur-
pose, though thy days have been abused by
the many, and thy precious moments unappre-
ciated. Yes, the old year with its joys and
sorrows, pains and regrets, has passed away,
and its record is sealed. Did we say regrets

[Column 2]
passed away? Not so; they remain—it is the
heritage time leaves to mortals. But no repin-
ings can bring back the real past, though the
vision of the mind show it ever so clearly; it 
is only the dim, faded shadow of what was
once alive to all the actual senses.
	None are permitted to retrace their wander-
ings from right—none can recall that which
may have been thoughtlessly uttered, perhaps
causing a wound in the bosom of a friend, or a
pang of sorrow for one beloved.
	In entering upon the new year one volunta-
rily resolves to improve—this feeling seems to
be almost universal, although in many in-
stances only spasmodic, yet even these are
helps towards a better life, for good thoughts
and good desires give strength to the soul, yet
action is the mainspring, and may, with dili-
gence for its companion, make life a real plea-
sure, under the influence of pure thoughts.
	In the fresh green pastures of the new year
there is to the hopeful a peculiar charm—some-
thing approaching the mystic—yet we know
that it is real; and when it comes it may prove
too real, too hard for human hearts, except
God tempers the soul by his Holy Spirit.
	Again we repeat farewell old year; we had
only just begun to grow familiar with thee and
realize thy worth, ere thou hast passed away—
thy footfalls are still echoing in our ears, and
we can scarcely realize thou art gone beyond
recall. How many sighs and tears and groans
thou hast been witness of, and how many hu-
man lives have been yielded up during thy
reign, many thousands of them only as a sac-
rifice to the fierce passions and cruel ravages of
nations at war. And who shall answer for all
this wicked waste of life and intelligence?
	God grant that in the new year now dawn-
ing, when mighty intellect is the boast of na-
tions, that true wisdom may begin to be appa-
rent in connection with the boasted intelli-
gence. edncation and refinement, that the
"time of peace" may be hastened, when men
shall learn war no more. Then will much of
the sorrow which now cries out from ten thou-
sand cities in one agonizing chorus be un-
known. And so passes away the old year once
again, and on the tablets of memory are inef-
faceably engraved some sorrows that nature
mourns, and even these may be blessings in
disguise, for only God knows what is best, and
to all who trust Him implicitly will He give
that consolation which abideth forever.
	In this new year we trust the EXPONENT
may be the humble though silent instrument of
doing much good, of inspiring courage in the
hearts of our sisters in the noble work of ele-
vating and blessing and uniting together those
who desire to promote the interests of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. And so we
will close by wishing our friends and readers
one and all "A Happy New Year."


