WOMAN--WOMANS WORST ENEMY.

	The greatest enemy woman can have is wo-
man. Whether they are instruments in the
hands of corrupt men or not, they alone know
how to be the worst foes of each other. The
last CRUSADE is only one proof out of many of
this assertion. Those ladies who allowed
themselves to be the cat's paw in this crusade
cannot be deep thinkers; they do not think for
themselves, they are merely the echo of others,
who, with or without reason, hate the Latter-
day Saints. Those ladies, if they had thought
for themselves, would never have consented to
be placed in the position in which they now
stand--the enemies of woman's freedom.
They know if they use their freedom unbiased
by prejudice, that they have never lived in
any place where woman is as free as here in
Utah. Not the freedom, so called, of licen-
liousness, which binds with [-etters] strong as
death, but the freedom that lives above law.
In no community on the face of this broad
land is the criminal calendar so small as among
this people, whether male or female. But this
is a digression. 
	What I wish to reach is the subject of plural
marriage as practised by the Latter-day Saints.
Those ladies claim it to be an abomination,
something awful, something to be loathed,
shunned, abhorred. But why? If it is so
dreadful, tell me why? Bring you reasons,
your strong reasons, and we will consider
them. Plural marriage has been practised for
over thirty years to my certain knowledge
amongst us, and where are the awful wrongs
it has brought forth. This people both male and
female are a God-fearing people. Come to our
meetings int he settlements away from the
city; listen Sabbath after Sabbath to the
teachings of the Elders, and those Elders, 
many of them, living in polygamy. I bear
testimony  that they teach the highest code of
morality and the most implicit trust in God;
that they counsel the people to be industrious,
sober, self-sustaining and honest; to marry
young, that they may live pure and not go
astray; that men must be faithful to their
wife, or wives, and provide for them and for
their families to the best of their ability.
	We provide amply for our poor, visit and
care for the sick and afflicted, store up grain
for a time of need, try to love our neighbors as
ourselves, to do good to them that hate us.
Are these then teachings of a wicked and licen-
tious people? Are these the practices to con-
demn? That plural marriage binds woman
and makes a her slave to man is utterly untrue;
it is the beginning of her freedom; it is the
door of her emancipation from slavery to man.
Now for the proof.
First, the girls of this Territory are not
afraid they will be old maids.
Second, they need not accept the first offer
for fear they will not get another, as they know
they can marry when they choose and whom
they choose.
	Third, mothers need not dress their daughters
and parade them around that they may catch
a husband, which after caught often proves not
worth having.
Plurality of wives also provides for the health
of woman after marriage. Ask any student of
human nature and they will be compelled to
acknowledge that it would be the salvation of
thousands of wives temporally. Thousands
of women every year are offered up a sacrifice
to mens' lust.
	Last, but not least, God has revealed this
principle for the salvation of His people, and
woe to them that fight against it. God has
promised to those who ask in sincerity that
He will give them a knowledge of the truth of
His work, or the principles pertaining thereun-
to. Plurality of wives is one of those princi-
ples. "Ask and ye shall receive; knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
Grantsville, Dec. 9, 1878. MARY.


