WHAT IS WANTED?

	"That the name and character of a citizen
of the United States shall mean one and the
same thing, and carry with them unchallenged
security and respect." * * * "Free
speech, free press and free suffrage," * *
"these are inestimable rights to American citi-
zens."
	It seems by the President's Message that the
costly colored man in the South had served his
time and can now be protected in his rights,
and the great Dictator and Upholder of the
universe sanctioned it, or allowed it. It was
talked over and prayed over by the oppressed
slaves (though some were well treated), but
the time came when their prayers and inter-
cessions were heard and answered from on
high. 
	Jacob served fourteen years for his two wives,
his father-in-law (what a mistake! it is gener-
ally the mother-in-law) oppressed him, but
God put it into the heart of Jacob to ask for
the ring-streaked and speckled cattle; thus
Jacob gained justice.
	What a strange freak of nature for like to
produce like. Suppose man lifts from the soul
of woman the thought, "I am not protected as
an American citizen," no diminishing of the
treasury is required, no blood is shed, no hearts
to be rent, no wails of the widows and orphans
—none of these things need follow. What is
wanted? Yea, in our fair country. Master
spirits with true unselfishness, wise patriotic,
zealous souls not struggling for power over
each other, but content to act righteously,
knowing the time will come when principle
will outweigh policy—otherwise the seed of
dissolution will reap an abundant harvest—
the reward of unrighteousness, wickedness and
corruption.
	Ladies of America, have you considered that
this is what is wanted?
	Let our honored representatives at the Capi-
tol consider the condition of the tax-paying
ladies—they must abide the law, but they are
not American citizens.
	Has not WOMAN served the world almost long
enough to know her position? If men want
rights, obtain them by love and justice; let Ja-
cob (woman) go free, then all the wealth of
the soul of woman may be free to bless the
world, protected by the strong arm of the law,
physically, morally and mentally


There will be no war when every knee is bowed
in homage and supplication to God. How
long, O Lord, shall Nature's true laws be dis-
respected, and our nation suffer the consequen-
ces of the lack of justice in their administra-
tion?
							ZINA D. YOUNG.
	S. L. City, Dec. 9, 1878.


