PRACTICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS. 

	With a sounder education our girls are
finding a more vigorous life. They are be-
ginning to get a glimpse of what work
means, of the sweetness, the elevation, the
dignity it adds to existence. There will
not be work enough in the world for wo-
men when they once discover what a key
it is to worlds unknown, what it holds for
them of expansion, of enjoyment, what an
arena it will spread out before them.
	The reign of the dirty and dishonest
cooks is short; they may make the most of
their present chance; the peculations and
dishonest work of a class of dressmakers
will shortly come to an end, for the bright
girls of the present generation will not
stand it when they feel the ability and
know how to mend it. Some of the pret-
tiest girls belonging to the best families
have shown what they can do during the
past summer in the interior of Maine, in
the mountains of Pennsylvania and the
nooks of the Catskill. A majority of them
have prepared their own wardrobes; some
have taken it upon themselves to fish and
"forage" for the "shanty" and others have
done the cooking.
	Cooking clubs will undoubtedly be a rage
this winter, and lunches at which the food
is prepared by the young hostess, assisted
more or less by her guests. Those how-
ever, are recreations; the solid part of it is
that girls are beginning to put their facul-
ties to some use; that, instead of dawdling
over fancy work, they are beginning to
make their own dresses; instead of flaunt-
ing the street, preparing flimsy finery,
they are painting, carving, improving and
decorating their homes, and even in some
instances putting themselves seriously to
the task of teaching younger brothers and
sisters. All this is so good that one can
only hope it will become more general.
Practical work ought to enter so much more
than it does into education, it is so health-
ful, so necessary to full development, it
teaches so much more than can be taught
by text books and abstract methods.
	What our girls learn experimentally they
never forget. But what has all this to do
with fashion? More than we think. It is
to this change we owe the spirit in which
the costume has been received, the sensible
dresses seen at even the most fashionable
resorts in the mountains, of plain wool,short
and simply made and trimmed. It has
even affected the more frivolous, sea-side
resorts; has induced stylish belles to re-
place their trailing silk robes with compar-
atively short dresses of inexpensive organ-
dy, barege and dotted muslin, and will re-
lieve many a struggling despondent man of
a burden daily becoming more and more
difficult to be borne. Nor have the girls
lost anything. Certainly they are handsom-
er in their fresh, useful dresses than they
ever were before.	JENNY JUNE.
	—The American Home.


HELLER, the magician, is dead.
	English steel pens are almost entirely
made by women.
	BISHOP SIMPSON has been made president
of Drew Theological Seminary, N. J.
	In the printing offices of New York City
over 1,500 women and girls are employed.
	The Jews feel the effect of the movement
for women, and will bring their mothers
and female members from their accustomed
seat behind the rail and out of sight, to sit
in the pews with men.—Ex.


