THE NEW COVENANT.

	Do we not feel to mourn when we see our
young people indifferent to the great work
of our Father's Kingdom? And why do
they ignore the excellency of the work?
Are they ignorant of the new covenant the
Lord has made with His people, prepara-
tory to His second coming? Perhaps you
ask when did He make this covenant? I
answer, when the angel came to Joseph
Smith to restore the Gospel as it was an-
ciently, with all its gifts, to the humble
and faithful Saints. That same covenant
is renewed to all who obey it and have an
eye single to the glory of God, then our
whole bodies are full of light. We see
whom we associate with, and know the re-
sult of the course we are taking. We then
know which is the downward course and
which will tend to happiness as a reward
to the just, for it is said "the just shall live
by faith." If so, can an unjust person ex-
pect the gift of faith? No, verily, no; none
but the upright and just, and those of true
integrity can have this gift. Yet we may
fail when our intentions are right. If the
common enemy retard our progress, then
we should humble ourselves, for it is the
humble and meek that the Lord will bless.
	The Book of Mormon shows that our
weaknesses are given for a wise purpose,
whereby we can come in humility to Father
for help and strength; yea, help in every
time of need.
	We read that we must be tried as "gold
seven times purified. How is that? It is
melted until the dross is all removed—un-
til the operator can see his face in the
heated metal; and when our trials produce
this effect our Savior can see this image in
us, that will be sufficient. Then, we will
be fit co-workers in His kingdom, and heirs
and joint heirs with Him. This is in ac
cordance with His words. The Jews were
expecting His coming to reign as King—
were they prepared for a celestial kingdom
before they received the laws pertaining to
that kingdom? Do you ask what they
were? You will find them contained in
the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of Matthew,
called Christ's sermon on the Mount. This
education is necessary to a reign of peace
on the earth. Did any of the Jews believe
this? Yes a few—Jesus' Apostles and those
who believed on their words. The beauti-
ful illustration of the sheep and the goats
show what order and consistency is to be
observed in the celestial kingdom of our
Father.
	When our minds are lit up by the Spirit
of Christ, what order, what beauty and
consistency we see in the laws of the celes-
tial kingdom. It may well be said that it
is like a well of living water springing up
to everlasting life. It is always new, never
stale, or threadbare to those who have an
eye single to the glory of God, for they
possess that spirit which enlightens the
mind and enlivens the soul. When I look
upon those whose abilities are good, and
judgment sound, but minds dark upon this
subject, I think they are like a candle which
has never been lighted. They are in pos-
session of all the attributes of our Father,
but have not yet been lit up by that Spirit
by which they can become a light to the
world and a blessing to their associates.
Let us be up and doing, because "the days
are evil, and soon the night cometh in
which no man can work."
	M. E. KIMBALL.
S. L. City, Dec. 10, 1878.


