ROME, GEORGIA, Oct. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were organized into a Relief Society
at our Conference held Aug. 10th, 11th and
12th, 1878, by Elder J. Morgan, with a good-
ly number of memebrs: the following offic-
ers were elected:

	V. Fawcett, President,
	Lina Lawrence,
	Emma Fawcett,        Counselors,
	Joanna O. Manning, Secretary.

	Thinking that you certainly had noticed
the organization of our soceity in the minu-
its of the conference in the Deseret News,
fearing that probably you might being to
think rather strange at the idea of my not
making any reports to you, I have come to
the conclusion that it owuld be proper to
give you some informatio in regard to the
matter. I haven't as yet heard  any word
from our president nor any of our sisters.
I cannot for even one minute imagine what
the cause for her not writing to me is, un-
less it is that so much opposition and perse-
cution exists, I assure you it runs high and 
seems to get worse in some places, especi-
ally where sister Fawcett lives, I guess they
think that it is best to remain quiet while
the opposition is so great and the persecu-
tion so bitter. But I can say that we have
been blest where we live; there is but very
litttle persecution in our part of the country
in comparison to some parts where branch-
es of the church are established, but I will
not boast for we know not how soon it may
change for the worse, people generally de-
test Mormonism, they haven't any sympathy
for any one who advocates Mormon princi-
ples, but for the respect that they have for
themselves and for our feelings they treat
us very kindly. We are surrounded by a
very generous hearted people who seem to
sympathise with us more than persecute,
unless it is once in a while one who seems
to care not what they say or do; but we as a
general thing stay at home and attend to
our own business, looking forward to the
future when we can enjoy better times, that
is all we can do under present circumstan-
ces. Through reading the columns of your
paper I can truly realize the good that is
derived from your Relief Societies and I was
delighted at the idea of our being organized
into a Relief Society, and I am truly sorry
that we cannot accomplish our desire, I was
in hopes that we might be able to do some
good if but little, it would be some satisfac-
tion; but we are in a scattered condition
and so many disadvantages all put together
it seems that we can't do any thing just yet
but hope better things for the future.
	I remain your faithful sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
