OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Moroni, Sanpete Co., Dec. 5th, 1778,
Martha Ann Kemp; daughter of Charles and
Sarah Kemp, aged 17 years and 6 months. She
attended our evening meeting Sunday, Dec. 1,
and played on the organ during the service.
Her illness, only lasted three days She was a
teacher in the Sunday School, and also a mem-
ber of the choir. She enlivened as with sweet
notes on the organ. She was indeed a very in-
teresting and intelligent girl, and her sudden
departure cast a gloom over our settlement.
She was always punctural and faithful in filling
her position. She was a member of the Y. L.
M. I. Association, and was much beloved by 
both young and old. Her remains were taken
to the City Hall, where the funereal was held,
and appropriate remarks were made  by several
brethren. Twenty-three vehicles formed the
procession, and twenty young ladies followed
her remains to her last resting place.
	We sympathize with her parents and also
her relatives, who deeply mourn her absence.
May her dust rest in peace, that when the
trumpet shall sound she will come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection.
Farewell, dear sister, we shall meet no more
Till we arrive on Canaan's happy shores
There we shall meet at our Redeemer's seat,
And cast our crowns of victory at His feet.
Moroni, Dec. 18, 1878.			J. BAILEY.
DIED, at Nephi, Oct. 23d, 1878, of Diptheria,
Bessie Lizzette, daughter of Edward and Bessie
Sparks, aged 7 years and 1 month. This was
the eldest child, a lovely little girl, and the
parents are greatly affected by it, feeling it to
be a sore affliction. She was a Sunday School
scholar, and was of a most lovable disposition,
which endeared her to all her associates, and
caused her to be beloved by all who knew her.
It is sad indeed to part with our loved ones,
and we deeply sympathize with the parents
and family of this little girl, but there are
sad experiences of this sort in life, and we
should be specially tender to each other and
thus bear each other's burdens. We know and
have an assurance that these little ones are
saved from a life of sorrow and trouble. "Suf-
er little children to come unto me and forbid 
them not, for of such is the kingdom of hea-
ven."
DIED, at Rockport, Summit Co., Utah, Nov.
25th, 1878, of inflammaion of the bowels,
Charlotte Underhill Marchent, wife of Ed-
mund Marchent, aged 51 years, 6 months and
15 days. Deceased was born May 10th, 1827 at
Wickward, Glostershire, England. She leaves
a husband and daughter with numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She was the Treasurer in our Relief Society
and filled her office honorably. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint beloved by all who
knew her. Her death cast a gloom over our
little settlement, but we feel that our loss is her
infinite gain. Blessed are the who die in
the Lord for they rest from their labors" and
come forth in the morning of the first resur-
rection."
ANN BRYANT, Pres't R.S.
