		SCATTER SUNSHINE.

	Yes, scatter sunshine everywhere, and
the reflection of its rays will beautify and
bless thine own life. How blessed it is to
be able to give joy, to be instrumental in
diffusing happiness, to touch with kind-
ness the heart of a fellow-creature, to kin-
dle pleasure in the eye even of a little
child, a helpless babe-all these are noble,
but to show delicate attentions to the aged,
to impart comfort in such a way that it
gladdens the weary pilgrim who is journey-
ing near to "the gates that stand ajar," is
something sublimely beautiful. Scatter
the sunshine of love in the path of those
who are not able to participate in those
pursuits and recreations which warm the
blood and invigorate the mind.
	We sometimes think that many of the
weary fathers and mothers, who have borne
the perplexities and ills of life, have too
little respect even, and their lives, as it
were, almost barren of affection; in some
lonely corner, secluded from the bustle and
cares of the world in which they no longer
take an active part, some sit the weary day
out, patiently waiting God's time to release
them from the ills of life and the neglect
of those who should at least make them
cheerful and contented, after they have
worn themselves out in usefulness and min-
istering to the wants of others.
	There are many little kindnesses and
tender endearments which younger people
can show to the aged that would scatter.
sunshine around their way and brighten
their lonely path. When the sun shines
upon inanimate nature how it glorifies it,
how different its aspect in the sunlight-in
like manner does the sunshine of tender-
ness and love change the feelings of the
heart.
	It is natural to love all that is beautiful,
there is no great nobility of character in
that, although we admire to see a taste for
the beautiful in nature, in art, in science,
in literature, in fact in all things, but when
one cultivates a love for that which has lost
its beauty, for a nobler and higher aim, un-
selfishly, we cannot but feel that person
possesses genuine goodness. If I had the 
power to impress upon the minds of the
young the importance of love and tender
solicitude for the aged, I should feel I had
accomplished something creditable. Moth-
ers, seek to engraft into the hearts of your
little children the qualities that will make
them tender and solicitous for the happiness
and pleasure of those who are not young
and buoyant enough to relish with the same
zest the enjoyments of this life. Many of
this class are really sufferers, full of aches
and pains, help them to forget them some-
times by rendering them truly happy.
	Sunshine is a potent power, and the sun-
shine of affection is equally so. Let us
train up our children not only to be respect-
ful but tender to the aged, and set them
this noble example, that they may grow up
with this beautiful sentiment engraven up-
on their hearts. It is not always the poor
who lack sunshine most, it is often those
who have many creature comforts-these 
do not fill the void in the heart, and it is
well they do not; often indeed we find an
aching heart under the richest trappings.
Elderly people are very apt to shrink from
notice, lest they should mar the enjoyment
or infringe upon the privileges of the
younger people, but they are entitled to
the kindest consideration and thoughful
devotion on the part of those with whom
their lot is cast, and deferential respect 
from all.
	God punished with s swift vengeance the
boys who derided Elisha, and though we
may not be guilty of so grievous a sin, yet
we must acknowledge there is in this day a
lack of deference to the aged.
