BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We have many faculties given to us that
often lie dormant in the soul, latent sparks
of "the divinity that stirs within us" un-
known even to the favored possessor, but
from inattention, or a want of self-study
and self-culture, they are unaware of
"Know thyself" was the wise injunction of
the accomplished and intelligent Greek;
and truly were this an aim and more an at-
tainment we should be more passive, and
probably more happy, for it would confer
strength, it would give us a delightful and
honorable employment; we should discover
what an empire is contained within the
circumference of one human being! With
wonder we should study and contemplate
the working of the heart and brain, see
how busy has the great Creator been with
these master-pieces of His creation, and
appreciation would at once be awakened in
the mind. Without this invaluable faculty
Nature may unfold her glories, friends may
be around us, a mine of wealth that gold
has nothing to do with may be our our por-
tion, but the good and the beautiful are not
discovered, and discontent fills the mind,
simply because appreciation is wanting.
	In reading the works of great authors we
need this faculty, or we cannot soar with
the poet, or delve with the philosopher;
consequently the sublime beauties they
present are to us as a veiled mirror! The
same applies to theatrical entertainments,
lectures, or any intellectual feast that may
be provided. We need it also when we
converse with intelligence, in which so
much mental luxury is often derived, as
also much edification, but lacking apprecia-
tion, their sentiments fall on our ears like
the "seed that fell on stony ground!"
	We also need this faculty in our family
associations. How frequently it happens
that we fail to study, understand, or appre-
ciate those with whom our life is cast!
What a mine of wealth we sometimes trifle
with, or entirely cast away, or by our cold-
ness and indifference crush and destroy,
merely because we have never taken the
pains to understand or appreciate them;
thus we have no power to call out the good
that is around and about us, that might add
to our information and happiness.
	Now let me say a little on self apprecia-
tion. It is said by many that we cannot
know ourselves. I presume to differ on
this point—an honest, candid mind can
know itself. The wise Greek spoke advis-
edly when he said "Know thyself;" and I
will say appreciate thyself—not with a vain,
conceited, cursory knowledge, but after
deep reflection, and much prayer; after
watching the spring and motive of action,
the conception of thought, the birth of
impulse, the origin of temper; after
sounding the depth of feeling, weigh-
ing the strength of principle, measuring
the judgment, anatomizing the reason, and
arraying all the minor faculties before the
Tribunal of the "Mind's Eye," and by a
constant watchfulness, by something like
this we may certainly gain a considerable
knowledge of self, and be able to pass a
tolerably correct verdict. By such a course
we may correct what we find amiss, lay
hold on all that is good, and rejoice therein
with thankfulness, and be happy. This
study will give us faith in ourselves, and if
slandered, or by any means thrown into
opposing elements, we shall rise superior to
the hour by living in our own self-esteem.
Confidence in ourselves is as necessary to

[Column 2]

success as confidence in others, and indeed
more so. The temple of our own heart,
and the sanctuary of our own brain, form
a mighty citadel to take refuge in from
"the whips and scourges that flesh is heir
to"—finding there resources, that will com-
pensate for all we suffer; and in the integ-
rity and rectitude of our souls we shall re-
ceive an intuition and a knowledge of our
position, however insignificant or exalted,
that will enable us to stand beneath every
trial with calmness and dignity, looking to
our God, and with all confidence saying,
"Lord, Thou knowest."
	"Knowledge is power," especially when
applied to ourselves; for nothing can rob us
of what we know. While our principles
are righteous and we love them, because
they emanate from the Author of light and
truth, and we appreciate them as such,
we will fear no evil. Let our daily prayer
be that we may realize our gifts and bless-
ings and appreciate the same.
	S. L. City, Dec. 18, 1878.


