[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 467 | General Feature | Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey]

THEOLOGY
The Doctrine and Covenants

Preview of Lessons for 1964-65

Elder Roy W. Doxey

DURING the year 1832 the Prophet Joseph Smith was in Ohio except for about two months while going to and from Jackson County, Missouri. Eleven of the fifteen Sections that make up this series of lessons were received in 1832. They consist of some of the better-known revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. Many aspects of these revelations are presented. All of the revelations are important and should be studied as sources of wisdom and guidance in life. Included for study this year is Section 76 which has been called the grandest and most wonderful revelation on the destiny of man that has ever been revealed. The principles of justice, mercy, and love are found therein, and the magnanimity of scope involving the salvation of man has not been surpassed in any other revelation on the degrees of glory.

While the Prophet was in Missouri, the Lord gave him two revelations about the law of consecration and related subjects. At this period the Church was endeavoring to bring about the economic welfare of its members through unifying them in a body of faithful followers.

In a day when emphasis is placed upon individual responsibility to do missionary work, we learn through the Prophet Joseph Smith that no responsible person in the Church is free from this obligation. Some principles by which men shall be judged are mentioned, and the attitude of the saints toward those not of the true Church are indicated.

One of the great Priesthood revelations of this dispensation was received in 1832. The saints were imbued with the desire to learn more about the Zion of the latter days and its glory. The temple to be built in Jackson County, Missouri, appeared to be of considerable interest to the members, so the Lord gave information about this holy structure and its place in the plan of salvation. Although the male member of the Church is ordained to the Priesthood, the principles of Priesthood are applicable to the woman. Salvation, in its highest sense, comes to those who honor and magnify their callings in the kingdom of God. Tests

467

JUNE 1964

on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church.

The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety

in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church.

Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities.

The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives:

Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49).

Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat.

Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119).

Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved.

Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83).

Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church.

Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82).

Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says.

Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42).

Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant.

Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120).

Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan.

468

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85).

Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested.

Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87).

Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Preview of Messages for 1964-65

Christine H. Robinson

THE Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living.

The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth.

More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how

469

JUNE 1964

the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments.

Again this year, these living truths are supported with illustra-

tive examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application.

The 1964-65
