[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 412 | Fiction | The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday | Helen Nielson]

The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday
Helen Nielson

IT was a beautiful spring day. We had shed our itchy winter woolen clothes and felt good. Mama, especially, seemed radiant because Papa was taking his family to church. It was a proud well-groomed family that Lizzie, clean and polished, conveyed to early morning Sabbath School. Mama looked stunning in her new white outfit. She had spent many hours during the past winter months sewing the tucks and frills that were to make the prettiest dress in town. She had planned this outfit very carefully, and not being adept with the crochet hook had prevailed upon a friend to help her with the hat.

The crochet brim was like a wide doily of solid white petals, caught in a spider's web fastened to a round wire hoop. The crown, not more than four inches high, was made of folded white satin over stiffening. A rhinestone buckle, in front, held three large white plumes which draped over the top and down the side. The hat was indeed a masterpiece. No one copied it because no one could compete with the most beautiful lady around.

A catalog had furnished her with the very latest in white kid gloves, and high, laced, white leather, high-heeled, pointed-toed shoes, which were a little too small. But rather than send them back, causing a delay of many weeks, Mama wore them, even though they pinched her feet.

Papa looked handsome in his brown suit and derby hat, perched cockily on the side to show his reddish blond hair. A gold nugget taken from the "Billy Boy" mine adorned a tie pin, and a long gold chain dangled from his vest pocket, which concealed the big gold watch his father had given him. He carried a look of distinction which hardly fit his personality, for he was more on the sporty side.

My brothers, James and Peter, wore loose white blouses with black bow ties, and knickers which were getting a bit too tight. They would do for this summer Mama had said, then James who was the older of the two, could have a new pair, and Peter could finish the old ones. Peter's, if they were not worn out, would be given to some needy little boy.

My new white embroidered dress was pretty, with puffy sleeves

412

THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY

and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes.

Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting.

Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends.

It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses and left them after us.

Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home.

"Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street.

"Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa.

"We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes.

"We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill.

A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around.

Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down.

"Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?" inquired Mama.

"They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old."

"I think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively.

But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, "Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"

Papa slammed on his brake just in time to keep from hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled

413

JUNE 1964

down the hill, luckily catching in a bush before reaching the river. The frightened sheep took off up the hill as Papa went over Lizzie's side, to chase after his hat. He came back, brushing off dirt and trying to push out the dents. Mama was on the point of tears.

"Just look at my new hat!" she cried, more concerned about it than the bruise on her forehead. "I knew we should have gone home first."

Silently, Papa adjusted his hat, cranked up Lizzie, threw his legs back over the side and started down the road, trying to keep out of the deep wagon-wheel ruts.

"Must have been some strays from the shepherd. Sometimes an old ewe will hide under brush to lamb, and if the herders don't notice her, she's left behind," said Papa.

But Mama was interested in only one thing now, and that was to get back home.

"Please, Ed, turn around and let's go home," pleaded Mama, working to straighten out her hat.

"Well, if you can turn around in these ruts, please take the wheel!" said Papa, trying to hold back his rising temper.

AT the foot of the hill, there was a nice wide spot in which to turn around. Papa maneuvered Lizzie skillfully, but almost backed into a little lamb lying under a sagebrush. He stopped, and we all climbed out, except Mama, to look at the little creature, which made no effort to move, but just looked sadly up at us.

"Oh, little lambie, where is your mama?" asked Peter.
"Where is its mama?" I asked of Papa.
"I guess she's with the herd. They must have been separated," said Papa, then added, "it's only a couple of days old."
"What will become of it, Papa, without a mama?" asked James.
"Well, I guess it'll starve to death, or the coyotes will get it," he answered, not realizing the effect such a statement would have on his three children.
"Come, we better be getting back," he said, starting for the car.
"Are you going to leave the little lambie here alone for the coyotes to get?" cried Peter.
"Can't we take it home with us?" I begged, feeling sorry for the helpless creature. "Please, Papa."
"Surely you don't intend to put that animal in the car, with us in our best clothes!" exclaimed Mama.

Papa wisely answered me by saying, "Ask your mother."

Now Mama was compassionate, too, but in her opinion there was a place for everything, and our nice clean Lizzie was definitely no place for a smelly sheep. But with three children feeling so much sympathy for the little lamb, she gave her consent.

"Where will you keep it?" she asked.

Immediately we assured her we would build it a little pen.

"Don't feel bad if it doesn't live," cautioned Papa. "It's pretty weak, and we might have trouble feeding it."

414

THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY

Gently he picked up the lamb and laid it on the floor in the back of the car.

WE were about to start back when we heard a baa, baa, coming from a clump of bushes near a fence. It sounded like a cry for help. Papa, who was in the process of cranking Lizzie, looked toward Mama, then took off down the slope to investigate.

"Stay in the car, children, I don't want you to get your clothes dirty," ordered Mama.

"Addie!" called Papa, "bring me that white rag under the front seat, this sheep has a broken leg."

Reluctantly Mama stood up from the seat, so I could pull out the rag. The sheep was caught in the fence, and in its struggle to get free had somehow broken its leg.

Only too happy to be of help, I started on the run down the hill, and as is so often the case on a hillside, I tripped on a stump of sagebrush, which caused my downfall. I arose with the knees out of my stockings, and skin off my knees.

"Why don't you watch where you're going?" was Papa's remark of sympathy as I limped up to him with tears running down my cheeks, and handed him the rag. "Now hand me that stick," he said, pointing to one just out of his reach. "Now grab hold of his hind legs while I put on a splint!" Even though the animal was lying flat on its side with Papa astride it, I had all I could do to hang onto those kicking legs.

With this act of mercy accomplished, Papa suggested we get back to Lizzie. I lifted up my blood-stained petticoats from my bleeding knees, and followed behind.

"Addie, what makes you so clumsy? Just look at yourself. All we need is another stray sheep and the day will be completely ruined," groaned Mama.

I took my place on the back seat, being careful not to step on the little lamb. My knees hurt, but I fought back the tears and said nothing. Unfastening my garters, I rolled down the kneeless stockings to ease the pain. No one cared how much I was suffering.

"Are you going to leave the poor sheep, Papa?" James asked.

"The coyotes will get it, Papa. Don't leave it for the coyotes to get," whimpered Peter.

"We have all the sheep we are going to have!" said Mama.

"He'll be good, Mama." Another baa, baa, from the sheep, and James begged, "He wants to go with us, listen! I don't want to leave him for the coyotes." Little Peter began to cry.

"Stand up a little, will you, Bess? Let me get that piece of rope from under the seat," said Papa to Mama.

"Surely you don't intend to put another sheep in with us?" she asked, rising obediently.

With rope in hand he headed for the helpless animal. It had occurred to him that, come winter, it would make good mutton. Why leave it for the coyotes when we could enjoy eating it?

415

JUNE 1964

The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but it was managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep.

"Don't cry little sheeps," said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head.

"Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"

WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the back seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop.

"You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked.

"Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter," Papa tried to explain.

"What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted.

Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front.

"Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said.

"You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep.

"Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you."

Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa.

It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with his black shoe strings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled.

The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This

416

THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY

annoyed Peter, and he scolded them for not letting the little one suckle.

Mama was trudging along the dusty road quite some distance ahead. We drove up beside her and stopped. A feeling of guilt and shame came over Papa as he looked at her tear-stained face and dusty white shoes. "Get in, Mama, we'll soon be home and everything will turn out all right," he spoke kindly.

Unwilling, but with no other choice, she climbed in, not even taking the trouble to move her skirt away from the displeasing, crippled sheep. Papa pulled down on the gas lever and Lizzie shot full speed ahead. The sudden jar upset the already startled sheep, and Papa found it far from pleasant, driving twenty-five miles an hour over the rough wagon road with a car full of frightened, bleating sheep.

Disheveled and hungry, we arrived home by way of the back streets, hoping not to be noticed by our friends and neighbors. Mama sat rigid, looking neither to the right nor left, as she brushed some straying locks back under her hat. The hat was never again quite straight, and it was a long time before Papa won her complete forgiveness.

"You had better go on in the house with Mama and take care of those knees," said Papa, as he helped me over the side of the car.

THE old ewe, anxious to put her feet on solid ground, almost kicked off my stockings before Papa could get her tied to a tree, where she stayed until a pen was built. There was no fear of the lambs straying from their mother.

Peter took complete possession of the orphan lamb, and, because the others had treated it so badly, would have nothing whatsoever to do with them. Papa carried it to the kitchen and laid it on a rug near the woodbox.

"Don't be afraid, little lambie, we won't hurt you," said Peter, kneeling down beside it, stroking the soft, fleecy wool.

The lamb could not stand or even hold up its head, it was so weak. Papa showed Peter how to hold its head so the fresh, warm milk, which he poured in its mouth with a spoon, could slowly trickle down its throat. Peter spent hours coaxing his new pet to drink, and often slept curled up beside it on the rug.

It became a beautiful, lovely pet and followed Peter at every opportunity. They romped and played until completely exhausted, then would drop down on the grass to rest and sometimes have a short nap.

Somehow the subject of lamb stew or mutton chops was never mentioned in connection with our pet. We enjoyed our winter meat, knowing full well that the little lamb was enjoying his grass and hay.

Never again did any sheep take a ride in Lizzie. Even though Papa scrubbed that Model T inside and out several times, Mama claimed she could still detect the faint odor of sheep. But Papa said it was all imagination.

417
