[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 442 | General Feature | An Evening Skirt Olive | W. Burt]

An
Evening Skirt

Olive W. Burt

ALL over the country, artistically inclined people are turning back to the arts and crafts of our grandparents. They recognize in the pieced quilts, the braided rugs, the hand-carved wooden implements an aesthetic quality not found in machine-made articles. And when the exigencies of modern living and modern decor make it inadvisable to follow exactly the old tradition, clever fingers adapt the pioneer crafts to up-to-date uses.

Such an adaptation is the "crazy-patch" evening skirt, made exactly as our pioneer ancestors made crazy-patch coverlets. For this skirt, a two-yard length of white muslin is used for the foundation. If the width of the muslin is not enough to provide an ankle-length skirt, a strip of the necessary width should be machine-sewed onto one long side of the muslin. That is, the muslin should be two yards long and wide enough to reach from the waist to the ankle of the one who is going to wear the skirt.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

MODEL ELLIE PENDLETON          TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL

Assemble a variety of silk and velvet scraps. Trim a few of these into various shapes and pin them along an end of the muslin. Match the outside edges as much as possible to avoid waste. Turn under the edge of one piece and blind-stitch it down, overlapping the raw edge of the next piece. Continue in this fashion, trimming pieces to match where necessary, and blind-stitching a turned under edge over a raw edge each time.

By working from one end toward the other, the material is more easily handled.

When the entire piece of muslin has been covered with crazy patches in this way, all seams are covered with a cross-stitch or feather-stitch, or herringbone-stitch (or a combination of stitches) done in black thread.

All that remains is to face the bottom edge with a narrow bias facing, seam up the two ends into one side seam, leaving a six-inch opening for a placket. Into this a zipper may be inserted if desired. Gather the top edge to the length required for the waistband; sew on the band and fasteners and the skirt is ready to be admired.

Interest is added if some of the scraps are "donated" by friends, especially if the pieces have special meaning. A bit of a chum's wedding dress; a scrap from Mother's familiar housecoat; Father's favorite necktie, all give added romance to such a skirt — which may well turn out to be a family heirloom.

442

[PHOTOGRAPH - Table setting with watermelon-themed decorations and tableware]

TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL
