[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 406 | Special Feature | Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy | ]

Paul H. Dunn
Appointed to the First Council of Seventy

PAUL Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in December 1963.

Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B.A. degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959.

At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake.

He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as vice-principal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was Coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine full-time and forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border.

Through his fine training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase

406

[PHOTOGRAPH]

ELDER PAUL H. DUNN AND HIS FAMILY

Elder Paul H. Dunn and his wife Jeanne Cheverton Dunn, with their daughters: Kellie (front, left); Janet (standing at the left), and Marsha (at the right).

their understanding of the gospel so that their attitudes and understanding of the gospel will enable them to be effective missionaries and exemplars of the teachings and principles of Latter-day Saint ideals.

His participation in athletics, (baseball, golf, football, basketball and track), and sports during his high school and college years has enabled him to influence many young men into taking part in such programs sponsored by the Church.

Elder Dunn's maternal grandfather W. D. Roberts, and the grandfather's brother E. L. Rob-

erts, who for many years was head coach and athletic director at the Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, were well known athletes and provided Elder Dunn with his heritage of interest.

Elder Dunn's father passed away in December 1960. His mother and brothers and their families are living in California.

Elder Dunn married Jeanne Alice Cheverton, whom he converted to the Church. They were sealed in the Arizona Temple, and are the parents of three daughters: Janet Carolyn, sixteen; Marsha Jeanne, fourteen, and Kellie Colleen, four.

407

You,
Dear Friends

Leone O. Jacobs
Former Member, General Board of Relief Society

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman in blue dress with arms outstretched in welcoming gesture]

Of all life's bounties, good friends I esteem to be one of the most precious. Without them how could we endure the heartaches, the disappointments, the illnesses to which we are prone in this mortal existence? And, likewise, how dispirited would be our joys and successes without friends with whom to share them? God was indeed kind when he made it possible and natural for us to associate with others of our own choosing.

One wintry morning, having battled a stubborn virus for several days, the phone rang and a dear, familiar voice said over the wire, "I am planning to bring over your lunch. Will twelve-thirty be about the right time?" Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the day seemed brighter, and my spirits rose perceptibly. Not necessarily because of the offer of food, but because my friend wished to do me a kindness.

One's friends are endowed with an amazing variety of temperaments and qualities of character, and each one adds much to life and makes of it an interesting

and joyous experience. There are the old friends and the new friends, the casual friends, and the close confidants. Each fills a particular niche in one's life.

Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. How I need her! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted skyward. Always an optimist, she carries burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There is Norma, who is particularly warm and considerate, making me feel I am really necessary to her happiness — a rare gift to offer a friend. For many years Hazel and I have had a special common interest in our children, who grew up together as close friends, and we often match notes on their progress and relive the memories of their childhood antics. With Cora, I like, particularly, to talk over my serious and deeply spiritual questions. She has a wealth of knowledge and understanding of life's purposes, and she stimulates me to greater effort in well-doing. Darlene is such fun and yet so practical. I marvel at such a combination. Many are the times she has saved me from

408

YOU, DEAR FRIENDS

wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart!

For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together," I announce proudly when introducing them to others. "We came from the same town." How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories!

THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "getting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect

it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle.

The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "How do you do? So nice to see you." One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world.

Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity.

And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence.

And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one!

409
