[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 420 | Poem | Always the Moment Lael | W. Hill]

In Memoriam— Gladys Pratt Young
March 24, 1895 - April 3, 1964

GLADYS Pratt Young, wife of S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1964. Of illustrious pioneer heritage, through the line of Parley P. Pratt, she was born in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, the youngest daughter of Helaman and Victoria Billingsley Pratt. Both her father and her brother, Rey Lucero Pratt, served as presidents of the Mexican Mission, and the members of the Pratt family are greatly loved and respected throughout the Church. Gladys spent her early years in the Mexican Colonies and lived with her brother Rey L. Pratt in Mexico City after the death of her parents. She was married to S. Dilworth Young, May 31, 1923, in the Salt Lake Temple.

A talented woman, skilled in the creative arts, Sister Young wrote and directed many dramas and pageants for the Church and for the communities in which she lived, generously sharing her gifts, her time, and her energy. Skilled in many household handicrafts, she excelled in such accomplishments as designing costumes, painting trays, rug making, and quilting, and she taught these skills to many women in the missions and at home.

She served as president of the New England Mission Relief Society from 1947 to 1951 during the time that her husband presided over that mission.

The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Young and to the other family members. May the beautiful life and the lovely ways of Gladys Pratt Young be a blessed memory to them.


Always the Moment
Lael W. Hill

Shall we look back and say to each other, Remember, remember—
That was the first day we looked on each other's faces
The instant of just before hearing each other's laughter
The merest beginning of almost-touching our fingers?

Shall we look back together sometime, in a frantic recalling
Trying to capture the color of eyes that were lighted,
Listening long for the music that once was our voices,
Reaching the hands of remembering—vainly, vainly?

If we knew—if our longing could wake an awareness, a knowledge,
The moment of then lies paired with our tomorrow!
Look forward to loving: our love will be always beginning—
Nothing is lost that we live so intensely, so purely.

420
