[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 422 | Special Feature | Emily Dickinson — "Occupation — Keeps House" | Laurel Ulrich]

Emily Dickinson in oval frame showing a woman with dark curly hair wearing a white dress with lace collar]

EMILY DICKINSON
"Occupation—Keeps House"
Laurel Ulrich

The quotations reprinted in this article are from the book "The Letters of Emily Dickinson," edited by Thomas H. Johnson, and are used by special permission from Harvard University Press.

MAIN Street in Amherst, Massachusetts, leads gently past the quiet common and a short row of shops, starts its ascent near the towered red brick police station, grows steeper as it moves into a residential section, then thrusts breathlessly upward until, just surmounting a crest of the hills beyond, it passes the thick maze of hemlock which screens the mansion where Emily Dickinson lived and died.

Emily's home is not open to the public. The white sign on the side of the house which claims it as her home can barely be glimpsed through the branches of the hedge, which reaches well past the sill of the second story windows. Retreating back down the hill, one can peer through the driveway opening and see something of the house—solid, conservative red brick cupola crowned. To the left of the driveway is the clay-colored picket fence of "The Evergreens," the house Edward Dickinson built for Emily's brother Austin and his bride. Towering over the pickets is another hemlock hedge and, piercing it, a row of pinions standing like flagstaffs before an embassy. The house itself is a clay-colored frame version of Edward's own.

It would be hard to imagine either of these houses open to

422

EMILY DICKINSON

tourists. There is a mystery in their aloofness which speculates upon the lives within. It is easy to imagine a slender woman in white darting into a doorway to avoid being seen, to picture a "New England Nun" tending her flowers and her broken heart behind the tall hedge. Like the citizens of Amherst in Emily's day, seeing the hedge, hearing the half-whispered rumors, we began to believe the legend of "Miss Emily." If we were to step through the hedge, wouldn't we see her there now, sitting in her garden dreamily writing in a small notebook, her face as pale as her dress, thinking of the legendary lover she had been forced to renounce in her youth?

Unfortunately for the legend, if we had been able to penetrate the hedge in Emily's day, we would probably have seen her, with her auburn hair neatly parted in the middle, dressed in apron (a white one?), kneading bread for the family, or doing any one of a dozen homely tasks. A household of 100 years ago required immense labor to operate. It took the efforts of Mrs. Dickinson, Lavina, an Irish maid, and Emily to keep the large Dickinson house going. There were vegetables to gather and preserve, apples to pick and make into sauce and cider. There were starched shirt fronts to iron with heavy irons heated and reheated on the wood-burning stove. There were scrubbing and sweeping and dusting and polishing—all without the benefit of vacuum cleaners—and all the while carrying the weight of a many-petticoated, full-length dress. Emily hated housework, saying she "preferred pestilence."

But she carried her share of the duties. Her prowess seems to have been cooking.

WRITING to her friend Abiah Root, the fifteen-year-old Emily says: "I am going to learn to make bread tomorrow. So you may imagine me with my sleeves rolled up, mixing flour, milk, saleratus, etc. with a deal of grace. I advise you if you don't know how to make the staff of life to learn with dispatch." Eleven years later she was an expert baker. At the Amherst Cattle Show in 1856 her loaf of "rye and Indian" bread won second prize—seventy-five cents. To his death Edward Dickinson was said to have refused any bread not of Emily's baking.

In a letter to Mrs. Holland, in 1871, Emily says she is "pleased the Gingerbread triumphed." The recipe was Emily's: "1 Quart Flour, ½ Cup Butter, ½ Cup Cream, 1 Table Spoon Ginger, 1 Tea Spoon Soda, 1 Salt. Make up with Molasses—."

It was natural that being cook she also made the fires. Writing to Austin at six A.M. she said: "I add a word to say that I've got the fires made and waked the individuals, and the Americans are conquering the British in the tea-kettle . . . Will now proceed to breakfast, consisting of hash and brown bread—Dessert—A. Sauce."

When Forester Ainsworth took the Tenth National Census in Hampshire County, Massachusetts, in 1880, he listed Emily E. Dickinson, Occupation: "Keeps House." To all the world this was Emily Dickinson's full-time occu-

423

JUNE 1964

pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand something of Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work.

Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these

come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks "At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a sorrow like a fly, or of winding "the months in balls," "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House.

For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home. New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955.
