Vo 51, Number6 June. 1964..-~ be iLessort Previ ews Volume ae: The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Hlustrations: /he SHadoufiald Shirley M. Howard Transparency by Lucien Bown Now I Have heard A thousand songs, Stirred In a thousand winds And a Thousand leaves Weave Through my Branches. My roots Lie deep And I keep Thinking That when One is tall The shadowfall Is long Upon An afternoon. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Crater Lake, Oregon Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots. My poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes. Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago. Ethel T. Kurihara President Luzon District Relief Society Southern Far East Mission I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn. Leona Fetzer Wintch Manti, Utah As I read the article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and am grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands. Ida Mae F. Dahl Boise, Idaho I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need. Pearl H. Saunders Ogden, Utah I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued. Mrs. Verna Ross Salt Lake City, Utah The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues. Mrs. Opal Saunders Vale, Oregon I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, lt was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem. Kathleen Gregory La Grange, Wyoming I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us. Sylvia J. Harris Red Wing, Minnesota I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring. Bonnie S. Hansen Munich, Germany The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers. Mrs. Frank Goodwin Wheeling, West Virginia 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIET Y of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 841] 1; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 g year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew Promptly so that no copies Il be missed. Report change of address. At once, giving old and new address. Entered QS second-class matter