[Vol51 | June 1964 | Page 431 | General Feature | Happiness in Flower Arranging Maude | W. Howard]
[Happiness in Flower Arranging Maude W. Howard]

Happiness in

Flower Arranging

Maude W. Howard

[ILLUSTRATION: Simple decorative flower arrangement in pot with stylized flowers]

DESIGNING beautiful flower arrangements is an art that is fascinating and rewarding.

Our homes can be made attractive with flowers. They do add warmth and friendliness to our homes. Our homes can speak our personality when we make use of our own little touches. Flowers can enhance all of our cherished objects.

As in any art, proper equipment is necessary, and the right tools make a difference. The essentials are few and inexpensive, but most important for successful flower arranging. A few of the basic needs or aids to flower arranging are: a knife, flower shears, a frog or a needle holder, oasis, wire, chicken wire, and basic containers.

A good knife is a prime requisite. All flower stems should be cut. After a flower stem has been out of water any length of time and exposed to the air, it should be recut allowing water and oxygen to travel up the stem to the blossom. Flower shears are not recommended for cutting flower stems, because they tend to pinch the stems and cut off circulation to the water channels leading to the bloom. However, scissors are needed for many other steps and requirements in this work.

Frogs or needle holders in various sizes are necessary for arranging in low, shallow containers, always remembering the frogs should be attached to the container with florists' clay before any moisture is added to the bowl. These frogs tend to hold stems upright and in place.

Oasis, a new commercial product similar to a sponge, can be soaked in water over night, and when covered with foil, serves as a container in itself. However, I prefer to use oasis as a filler in another container so water may be added to the oasis daily.

Floral wire is most useful to reinforce the flower stems and it also helps to hold the flower stem straight. If one wishes to attain a line arrangement with a flower, wire adds to the possible bending of the stem without breaking.

Chicken wire is most successful when crushed to fit any shape of container. It is especially good in tall cylinder vases and urns because flowers are held in place. The stems can be inserted through mesh openings which hold stems in place and support them.

Anything which holds water is a usable container for flowers, whether it be a compote, urn, shallow bowl, rectangular tray, jar, goblet, cylinder, or pillow type vase.

Most generally we follow the line of the vase with our flower arrangement, curving with a curved or flare vase. More often, with an upright cylinder type vase, we make an upright straight arrangement which bespeaks modern or oriental art. We use few flowers, which are placed very carefully in a heaven, man, and earth fashion. This is three elevations filled in between with greens.

If you are arranging flowers sent from a florist, remember to recut stems on the diagonal so when the stem is resting on the bottom of the vessel, circulation is not cut off and water can travel up the stem to the blossom. A stubby stem touches the bottom of the container so no action can take place. Remember at all times that flowers breathe in water through the stems, and a dry stem will not take in water even though the stem is submerged in water. This is most important to the lasting qualities of all types of flowers.

431

Before arranging flowers, always remember to remove all foliage below the water line. Always use a flower preservative such as one of the many commercial preparations for this purpose. Replace water as it evaporates from the container. Lukewarm water seems to make the stem more porous and allows quick water reaction up to the bloom.

As an architect builds a home — makes plans and knows what he is going to do — we should proceed with flower arranging in much the same manner. We must know where the arrangement is to be placed in the home, whether it is to be on a radio, which wouldn't require flowers all around, or whether the arrangement would be placed on a low table or dining-room table, where it would need to be effective on all sides.

We should take into consideration the surrounding colors and the decor of the home. So we must visualize what we want our finished product to look like and make a definite plan or use a picture from a magazine that we like and copy this if it fits our needs.

Now we are ready to start our flower arranging. We have our necessary tools, together with a desired container and the plan which we wish to follow. I always start the arrangement in the center with three or five flowers of different elevations and work out the desired length needed. Keep in mind that flowers should always be once and a half times the height of the container and the same in length.

We should always use small buds or flowers at the highest point, and as we come down we use the larger and more open flowers. We follow this same rule in color, using our more pastel color high and the stronger colors at the core of the arrangement. This gives a good balance without a top-heavy feeling.

We work our flowers in a low and outgoing direction, thus giving them a three-dimensional look, which always creates more interest.

When you receive a dozen roses from your florist, arrange them in a suitable vase, one which will be tall enough to hold enough water, remembering to recut the stems each day and add water enough to replace that which has evaporated. After the roses have bloomed out, stems can be shortened and utilized by arranging them in lower containers to prolong the life of the roses.

We should always remember flowers that do not like drafts and artificial heat, should be placed in the coolest spot in the room.

Whether we are going to enjoy our cut flowers depends somewhat on the tender care we give them. If our flowers wilt quickly and we have followed all instructions available, may I suggest you cut the stems and roll the top part of flowers in several pieces of wet newspaper. Leave the lower part of the stems exposed so that they can be put in a deep vessel of water and placed in a cool place. An over-night soaking of the blossoms in newspaper is preferred. In the morning they will be revived and will bloom out beautifully.

The pleasure of working with flowers increases when we learn to manipulate them to achieve a wider range of design. The time to experiment with flowers is when we have them in our gardens in profusion. Then we can work with them and become acquainted with the feel of flowers and know the capacity of the stems and blossoms, and the number of flowers needed for a specific arrangement.

Women who enjoy flower arranging and are called upon to furnish arrangements for clubs, schools, or church functions should acquire interesting vases to accommodate different types and shapes of flowers and shrubs. It is so much easier to make an unusual arrangement in an unusual container. We are living in an era where we are more daring. When we create, we should try to create an arrangement which will act as a focal point or a conversation piece. They can be, if we take into consideration the decor and surroundings, and make our flower arrangements look like they belong and are a vital part of the room.

Those of you who love to garden remember it is so essential to plant the right color and type of flowers in your garden so they can be used on the inside of your home—arranging the inside color of our homes to the outside and bringing the outside in so we do attain a more pleasing finished arrangement.

432                                                                                                             TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL

[PHOTOGRAPH - Wedding table arrangement with white candles, flowers, and decorative bell centerpiece]

White pompoms, white stock, and blue forget-me-nots make a special arrangement for the bride-to-be. A wedding bell centerpiece with streamers of ribbons cascades to candelabra and stately candles. A fluffy nosegay encircled with bridal illusion attached to the wedding bell and candelabra carries out the wedding theme.

Silver elegance, a dramatic arrangement in a silver ice bucket can complement any dinner party or buffet table. Combined with lovely silver candelabra, it lends a note of elegance and formality. Caution is given to keep the arrangement compact. This design is made from stately pink gladioli and pink and white carnations.

[PHOTOGRAPH - Silver candelabra with pink candles and floral arrangement in silver ice bucket]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

White and yellow pompom chrysanthemums, with a touch of forsythia and white stock, make an appealing "off-center arrangement," using a tall cherub compote with satin streamers cascading to a low nosegay arrangement of the same flowers. This arrangement is good when candles need to be eliminated.

Portrait pink carnations are used in this new mound look. It creates excitement when used with branches of spring blossoms. Let your imagination work and add a touch of the awakening of spring by adding butterflies or birds.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

TRANSPARENCY BY H. ARMSTRONG ROBERTS

Peach Blossoms

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

What does earth offer lovelier than these
Peach orchards redolent with coral bloom?
Rich pinkness, feathery light, alive with bees
And crimson promises in every plume.
So sweet these petal clouds against the blue
The robins must translate them into trills;
And darting bluebird wings come flashing through
The mists of pink and white which hide the hills.
Smooth russet trunks which anchor them to earth
Are surging with the miracle of fruit
And seed insistent on a stony berth,
For centuries repatterned in the root.
Oh, treasure them! Too soon this petal foam
Will answer earth and float back toward the loam.

435

[ILLUSTRATION: Two botanical art cards showing pressed flowers and foliage arranged decoratively]

TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS
