[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 910 | General Feature | The 134th Semi-Annual | Church Conference]

The 134th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 2, 3, and 4, 1964. President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-second year, from his home nearby, presided at all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. President Hugh B. Brown and President N. Eldon Tanner conducted the meetings. All of the General Authorities, except President McKay, were in attendance.

The three days of instruction and rejoicing provided for the world-wide membership of the Church a rich harvest of truth and enlightenment. Many thousands of members and interested listeners among the nations of the earth were privileged to be uplifted once more by the glad tidings of the gospel. Television and radio, and later, the printed word, carried the message to far places in English, German, Spanish, and Portuguese. The great organ and the many voices carried music to the multitudes in tones of faith and majesty.

The theme and the prevailing messages delineated the principles and requirements of the everlasting gospel: the divinity and mission of the Savior; the great apostasy; the restoration; and the importance of prayer and obeying the commandments in order to obtain a testimony of the gospel.

President David O. McKay's opening greetings and address were read by his son Robert. The beloved President said, in part:

It is over fifty-eight years ago that I stood at the pulpit in the Tabernacle for the first time as one of the General Authorities of the Church. I remember well then my trembling and humility at facing such an audience and accepting a position as one of the General Authorities of the Church. This morning, as then, and during the intervening years, I ask for your sympathy and prayers.

Evidences of progress in the Church give us true cause for rejoicing. The Lord has blessed us with eventful and prosperous years during the last decade. The loyalty of the members to the ideals and teachings of the Church of Galilee has been evidenced in many ways. . . . But let us ever remember that peace and progress are attained only at the price of eternal vigilance and constant righteous efforts.

President Hugh B. Brown spoke of the revealed gospel as providing the answers to questions vital to happiness and eternal salvation.

910

EDITORIAL

We believe that as a philosophy, Mormonism is the most profound and the most hopeful in the world today. But it is more than a philosophy. To us it is the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, unadulterated by the speculations of men. The basic idea of our religion is the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, with the love of God and the love of fellow men as basic principles. . . . The restoration of the gospel . . . marks the inauguration of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. . . . The Restoration of the Gospel . . . is the consummation of the work of God throughout the ages, and the final preparation for the second advent of Jesus the Christ.

President N. Eldon Tanner declared that if men would accept Jesus as the Son of God, peace could fill the world with its glory and its blessing.

I am sure that many of you young people wonder how it was that
