[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 896 | Special Feature | Kathryn Smith Gilbert Verda | Fox Burton]

Kathryn Smith Gilbert, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964, is a native of Beaver City, Utah, a daughter of Robert H. Smith and Caroline Carlow Smith. She attended the Murdock Academy in Beaver and received a B.S. Degree from Brigham Young University. Her post-graduate work was done at the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Mexico, and the University of Washington at Bellingham. She taught school in Cedar City and Salt Lake City, Utah.

Sister Gilbert's husband is Alonzo J. Gilbert, and she has two stepsons Jessie L. and Milton L. Gilbert, and nine grandchildren. She was a Gleaner leader in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for twenty years, and served for years on the General Board of the Primary Association. She has been a visiting teacher, class leader, and a social science class leader in the Monument Park Second Ward Relief Society, and has demonstrated marked qualities of leadership.

She is writing a set of lessons on The Book of Mormon for Lamanite Relief Societies at the present time.

The devotion and dedicated service of this warm-hearted and lovely woman will be of much value to the General Board and to all privileged to know her.

Verda Fox Burton, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 30, 1964, was born in American Fork, Utah, to James Isaac Fox and Mabel Edith Williams Fox. Sister Burton and her husband Archie Hunter Burton live in Salt Lake City, Utah. They have two sons, Archie Duane Burton and Ronald B. Burton. There are seven grandchildren.

Sister Burton was educated in Salt Lake City public schools, the L.D.S. Business College, and the University of Utah. She is an efficient accountant and has assisted her husband in his business affairs. She has served as president of Relief Society in two wards, and has been a theology class leader and a visiting teacher for many years. Also, she has served in executive positions in ward and stake Primary Associations, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and in Sunday School. She has an active interest in genealogical research and shares this enthusiasm with others.

Sister Burton's call to the General Board has come at the completion of a mission to Australia, where she served with her husband. Her devotion to the gospel, her deep understanding of its principles, her friendliness and her love of people and her concern for their welfare will contribute valuable service in her new assignment.

896

[PHOTOGRAPH] [PHOTOGRAPH]
