[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 902 | Fiction | Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 3 | Mabel Harmer]

Turn
of the Wheel
Mabel Harmer                                CHAPTER 3

Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowl-
ton, from Salt Lake City, stationed
with the United States Army in
Heidelberg. She is eager to come to
America and quickly takes advantage
of his offer to have her sponsored by
his family. Her widowed mother had
hoped that she would stay in Germany
and continue her growing friendship
with Karl Ernst.

IT was a lovely day in mid-au-
tumn when Elsa left for Bremer-
haven to board the ship for
America. Heidelberg had never
looked more beautiful. The hills
were never more green — the
river never more inviting. "And
yet it goes eagerly on toward the
ocean," she told herself. "The
same as I."

Her mother and Maria went
with her to the station, and, at
the last moment, Karl came tear-
ing up. "I had a hard time get-
ting away from my work," he said
breathlessly. "I had to threaten
the boss' life to get away at all."

"Perhaps you won't have to do
that again," laughed Maria. "You
may not have a job at all when
you get back."

"Then you will have to care
for me," he replied.

Mrs. Breinholt was not laugh-
ing — nor even smiling. Elsa
knew well enough that if there
had been any way right now to
put a stop to the trip, her mother
would have done so quickly.

She had half hoped that Clay
would also be at the station, but
she knew that it was not as easy
to get off from military duty as
from a job.

The announcer called her train,
and she kissed her mother and
Maria goodbye. She turned to
Karl last. "Auf Wiedersehen,"
he said, holding her hand tightly.
"Auf Wiedersehen," she smiled.
"Auf Wiedersehen."

At this last moment tears
blinded her eyes, and she ran to-
ward her car. Once aboard and
moving through the countryside,
her tears quickly dried and she
enjoyed the passing scene. Her
spirits soared again. She was on
her way at last! At long last she
was going to see the world.

At the harbour she went aboard
at once and was shown to a small
stateroom in the tourist class.
The enormous size of the ship was

902

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

overwhelming. It was all so shiny and sparkling clean it looked as if no one had ever stepped a foot inside before.

There were two berths in the room, but no one else came in. The room steward told her that the other lady was probably boarding at Southampton, where the ship took on the majority of its passengers.

She had been in her room just long enough to start unpacking, when there was a knock at the door and a porter handed her a basket of flowers. The card read "Have fun — Clay."

ELSA thought it was the most delightful surprise of her entire life. It was a good omen, she decided, of the wonderful things that were to come into her life now. She set the flowers on the small dressing table and hurried up on deck. She must not miss the departure, even if there was but a small crowd on the pier to see them off and very few other passengers. She knew that the ship would make one more stop at Le Havre before going on to Southampton.

The great ship moved out of the harbor so easily that she could hardly believe they were leaving until the shoreline began to recede. Only then did she realize that she was leaving her homeland — and for how long, no one knew. It could be forever. There was a lump in her throat as she whispered, "Auf Wiedersehen."

She was eager to meet her roommate and stood on the deck at Southampton as each passenger came aboard. The train with the tourist class passengers had come down from London first, and when all of them apparently had come on the ship, she hurried down to her stateroom again. She found it occupied by a young woman, perhaps a few years older than she. Elsa noticed that she was wearing a wedding ring. "Hello," she said, holding out her hand, "I am Elsa Breinholt."

"Cynthia Winters," replied the other. "I am very happy to meet you."

Elsa knew at once that she was an American. "You have been over here on a visit?" she asked.

The young woman's face clouded. "No — not exactly," she said, as she turned and began unpacking a case. "My husband was stationed here with the Air Force. There was a crash a month ago."

"Oh! I'm so sorry!" cried Elsa softly. "So now you are going home?"

"I suppose so." Cynthia shrugged as if it couldn't really matter very much where she went. She managed a faint smile as she glanced toward the flowers and said, "I see that you have an admirer."

"Yes." Elsa blushed. "At least, he sent me these flowers. He is also an American. A soldier — stationed in Heidelberg — my home."

"And you are going over to meet his folks?"

"Oh, no! It is not serious. I am going over simply because I want to go to America. His family did sponsor me, however, and I shall go to their home when I first arrive. They live in Salt Lake City."

"It sounds just a bit on the serious side to me," Cynthia in-

903

DECEMBER 1964

sisted. Then she added, "My home is in Wisconsin. That is a long way from Utah."

CYNTHIA finished her unpacking and they went up to the dining room for lunch. They were assigned to a table with four others, a middle-aged couple from England going over for a visit with a married daughter, and two young boys who had been touring Europe.

"On a shoestring and a four-leaf clover," announced one of them cheerfully. "So don't be surprised or embarrassed if we order everything on the menu. We have to make up for a lot of under-par meals."

Elsa found plenty to do on board to keep her busy and happy. There was a movie every day — a small library — games in the lounge, and a few hours of sunshine on the deck assigned to the tourist class passengers. In the daily ship newspaper she was surprised to see notice of a Latter-day Saint service to be held in the cabin class lounge.

"Look!" she exclaimed. "Some of my Church members have a service here tomorrow! Isn't that wonderful?"

"What is your church?" asked Cynthia.

"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is usually called the Mormon Church. Do you know anything about it?"

"A little. We did go to the chapel in London, where we heard an organ recital and a brief talk. It was really exceptionally good. And I have seen the temple a few miles outside of London. We didn't go in, however."

It was on the tip of Elsa's tongue to say, "You couldn't." Instead, she said, "Wouldn't you like to go with me tomorrow?"

"Yes, why not!" she replied with another shrug. "It will be something to do."

Elsa could hardly wait until the time to go into the service. She found about twenty people gathered in the lounge. There were seven young men, returning from missions, who took charge. The other people were tourists who had come from various parts of the ship.

The young man who greeted them asked if anyone could play the piano, and was delighted when Elsa told him that she could. One of the group led the singing. Two others gave the prayers and the talks. One spoke on eternal marriage, and Elsa could not help noting the deep interest with which Cynthia listened.

Later, when they had returned to their own room, Cynthia said, "About that eternal marriage — your Church really believes that a man and his wife are married forever—not just until death?"

"Yes, indeed. Is it not a beautiful thought? That is part of the ceremonies that take place in the temple you saw in England."

"It would be a beautiful thought, if one could have any assurance that it is so."

"That is something you would have to find out for yourself," said Elsa simply.

"But how?"

"It is easy, really. You can get in touch with missionaries when you return home. We have them almost everywhere now. Perhaps there is a branch of the Church right in your own town."

904

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

CYNTHIA turned away. "But it is too late now, for Ralph and me."

"It is never too late to plan for eternity," said Elsa.

"What do you mean?"

"I cannot explain it all well enough. But if you will just see the missionaries, they will tell you."

"But these missionaries—why, they are only boys! Those we saw today can't be much more than twenty years old."

"That is right. Most of them are in their early twenties. They spend two years or more in the field. Not only do they go without pay, but they take care of all their own expenses while they are abroad."

"But why?"

"Because they have something very precious and wonderful to share with everyone in the world. You will see that is true, if you will just give yourself the chance."

Cynthia said no more, but Elsa was quite sure she had been impressed enough so that she would remember.

They reached New York early on Tuesday morning and missed breakfast in order to stand on the deck and be greeted by the Statue of Liberty and the magnificent skyline of the great city.

"Are you stopping over here at all?" asked Cynthia.

"No. I cannot afford to do so, much as I would like. I am going straight to a bus station and take the first one out for Salt Lake City."

"That's an awful long ride," said Cynthia. "You'll be dead tired without any stops."

"Then I'll go to sleep," said Elsa cheerfully. "Clay told me to get out and walk around at each rest stop, and it wouldn't be too bad. Besides, it will be a wonderful way to see the country."

"You'll sure see a lot of it before you get to Utah. And some of it is going to look mighty dry and barren after what you're used to in Europe. If you were just going to Wisconsin now . . ." Cynthia sighed. "It's gorgeous in the fall."

"Then I'm glad for your sake," said Elsa. "I hope it will be very bright for you."

They said goodbye, and Elsa took a taxi to the bus station. Even that short ride through the busy streets of New York was an exciting adventure. Everything had been wonderful so far. Surely the future would be also!

Leaving the city again was interesting. There seemed to be no end to the industrial section. But at last, they had left it behind and were out in the open country. She remembered Clay's advice to do all the walking she could at any stop and so far, was enjoying every mile of the trip. The countryside was interesting and beautiful in the fall colors. She was deeply content.

THE bus reached Chicago just after noon the next day, and she had a four-hour stopover before leaving again for the West. She walked down one of the streets from the station and was amazed at all the noise and bustle. There were more automobiles than she had seen in all of her life before—and more people. She wasn't sure that she liked it at all, and

905

DECEMBER 1964

it made her think, with something akin to nostalgia, of the peaceful streets of Heidelberg.

I do hope that Salt Lake City isn't like this, she thought. But of course it won't be. It isn't nearly so large.

When she had walked as far as she thought advisable in one direction, she turned and went back again. There was still time to have an early dinner in the cafeteria before leaving.

She felt greatly rested and refreshed and, when her bus was announced, went down to get aboard with new interest that this was to be the last leg of her trip. When she left the bus for the last time she would be in Zion — the city of her dreams.

There were two children seated just across from her, a boy of about eight and a girl a bit older. They seemed lonely and somewhat frightened. She smiled at them pleasantly and asked, "Are you going very far?"

The question seemed to bring home to them the fact that they were going far indeed. The girl's eyes widened as she nodded, "Yes. Quite far. We're going to Utah."

"Good," said Elsa. "That's where I'm going, too. We'll be company all the way."

The children were obviously delighted at the prospect, and at the very next stop attached themselves very firmly. It continued this way for the rest of the trip. They stayed together at all stops and ate their meals together.

It was not long before they had poured out their story. Their father had been dead for some years. In fact, Jerry didn't remember him at all and Pauline

only slightly. Their mother was very ill now and they were going out to Provo to live with an aunt until she recovered. Then she was going to join them.

"It's almost out in the country and I can have a dog — maybe ..." Jerry volunteered. It was clear that a dog would compensate for a number of things.

IT was not long before Elsa realized how right Cynthia had been in describing the country. It had grown dark before they were very far out from Chicago, and when she awakened the next morning it was to vistas of golden fields that seemed to stretch on forever, with occasional small towns and farmhouses in between.

It was a bit forbidding, and she had to remind herself very forcibly that this was why she had come — to see the world. To see something different. Well, it was certainly different, she had to agree, thinking of the dense evergreen forests that covered the hills at home.

She was half dozing when they crossed the State line, and she just barely caught sight of the big sign announcing that they were in Utah. "Did you see that?" she called to the children. "We are almost there."

Jerry leaped to his feet, ready to get off as soon as the bus could slow down. "Not quite this soon," she laughed. "But it will be only an hour or so, I'm sure."

She had found the mountain scenery much more interesting than anything they had passed through for a long time. There were patches of scarlet and yellow leaves on the mountainsides. As they swung out of the last can-

906

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

yon, and she caught sight of the panorama of the valley with the lake in the distance, she caught her breath with its sheer beauty. The faraway mountains were capped with snow. This was a fitting climax to her journey. It was really worth coming one fourth of the way around the world.

For the first time she began to feel nervous about meeting the Knowltons. Clay had been so friendly that she had taken it for granted his family would be the same. But would they? Well, she need not stay with them for very long. As soon as she found a job she would also find her own place to live. It was just a matter of getting settled.

The bus rolled into the rear of the station and stopped. They piled out as quickly as they could.

"Does your aunt meet you here, or do you go on to Provo?" she asked.

"Our ticket says Provo," answered Pauline. "Is it much farther?"

"I don't know. We'll ask at the office."

They walked up the ramp and into the waiting room. Elsa looked around eagerly to see if she could locate the Knowltons. She had sent a telegram from Chicago telling the exact time she should arrive. But how would she know them — or they her? The room was full of people.

Her first concern was for the children, however. She found that their bus would not leave for another half hour. They walked around the room a couple of times for exercise, then went into the lunch room for a glass of milk and a bun. By that time their bus was called, and she took them down again to put them on. "In a little more than an hour you'll be there," she said. "I hope that you have a wonderful time this winter."

"Thank you," they said, looking very doubtful.

She went back again and sat down to wait. By now she felt as nervous as the children had looked. What if no one came? She had their address, but should she take a cab to their home? Maybe they had changed their minds about meeting her. Then what would she do?

She was becoming just a trifle desperate when her name was called over the loud-speaker. With a sigh of relief, she jumped to her feet and hurried over to the information desk.

She recognized them at once and wondered how she could have missed them before. Mr. Knowlton was Clay just twenty years older. Mrs. Knowlton held out her hand and said "Elsa! We're so sorry to have missed you. We didn't recognize you because of the children. We were looking for someone alone."

"Of course," she smiled. "I didn't think of that."

She shook hands with Mr. Knowlton and he gathered up her bags. "This way," he said, leading them towards the north door.

Just outside Elsa looked up to where the golden angel on a lofty spire caught the rays of the setting sun. She wanted to stand there and look — and look. Mrs. Knowlton touched her arm and smiled as she said, "Come, my dear. It will be there for a long time."

(To be continued)

907
