[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 942 | Lesson | Work Meeting — The Eternal Family Alberta | H. Christensen]

WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Alberta H. Christensen

Lesson 2 — The Eternal Family

(A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965)

For Second Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To consider the present and ultimate status of the family that we may guide ourselves and our children to that eternal destiny intended by the Creator.

THE FAMILY — A BASIC UNIT OF SOCIETY

No subject is of greater interest or concern to the Latter-day Saint mother than that of the present status and ultimate destiny of the family. As the mother of a family, her concern is a natural one, for to her, family means home. It means husband and children. It means protecting care, and it involves all the emotions of human relationship that bind and endear one to another.

We know, from observation, that the family is of utmost importance to organized society; that communities are made up of families; that nations are an aggregation of communities; and that the world-family is the sum total of its multiple nations. Thus, the family, the producer of society, is its basic unit. Those governments which have attained a high place in the world's history have been those which have given recognition to the home as a fundamental institution.

942

LESSON DEPARTMENT

THE FUNCTION OF THE FAMILY

From personal experience, we know that the newborn child is almost completely helpless. It can neither speak nor walk. It is wholly dependent upon the assistance of others even to survive. In some cultures, society demands that families give their children certain necessary care. If such is not given, some states assume the right to take children from their families and give them to those who can and will provide that care.

Beyond the giving of essential physical care, parents and family members contribute to the development of a child by example and by conscious teaching. Important as schools have been and are, the home remains the primary educational institution. It is in the home that the child first learns that which he must do to obtain his desired goals or that certain kinds of behavior will bring satisfaction or disapproval. Thus the child becomes oriented within the family, and this socialization enables him to develop behavior patterns which will make him an acceptable member of that larger world beyond the circle of the home.

If the family is the basic unit of a given culture, then the home is in a position to exert a material influence upon that culture. The relationship between them is a complex one, each exerting an influence upon the other. It is often said that the strength of a nation is no greater than the strength of its individual homes. We may also say that the morality of a community is the result of the morality of its individual

homes. This being so, what a great responsibility rests upon families — upon the parents of those individual families!

THE DIVINE AND ETERNAL STATUS OF THE FAMILY

How blessed we are, as Latter-day Saints, to know that the family organization has eternal status; that in the divine plan of existence, the family occupies a central position. "Our very concept of heaven itself," wrote Elder Stephen L Richards, "is little more than the projection of the home into eternity."

What a glad tiding this is! Surely countless thousands of Christian men and women have yearned and prayed for a reunion with their parents and their children in the life hereafter.

The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that our families will have continuity within the celestial kingdom of heaven provided we fulfill the requirements upon which this great blessing is predicated. This truth leads us to consider seriously the specific requirements which must be met in mortal life. Later lessons will emphasize the principles of the gospel which must be carried out by the parents and in the home, if this eternal blessing is to be realized.

In order to understand the function of the family in fulfilling the divine purpose, it may be helpful to review briefly such phases of our existence as are known to us through revelation. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," are the words of the Creator, found in Moses 1:39.

943

DECEMBER 1964

Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be (D&C 93:29).

And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. . . .

So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them (Genesis 1:26-27).

God is the Father of our spirit bodies, and the next stage in our progression toward immortality, the stage in which we live at present, is that of earth life. With a mortal body we are given the opportunity of having the varied experiences which test our faith, our ability to discern and choose, and our willingness to comply with certain important and divine directives. We are given the opportunity of marriage and parenthood; the opportunity to perform services which will bring satisfaction and enduring joy.

After mortal life, and as resurrected beings, we shall be assigned to that kingdom for which our thinking, our faith, and our actions have prepared us.

In one sense, the mortal family is in partnership with our Heavenly Father. We assist him, as well as ourselves, in achieving the divine purposes of creation. We do this by bringing other spirit children, who are our spiritual brothers and sisters, into mortal life. It is impossible for us, in this human state, to comprehend fully the extent of the divine love of the Father for these opportunities. Likewise, it is impossible for us to appreciate fully the divine love of our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who voluntarily gave his life that we might have immortality and,

through obedience, achieve exaltation.

THE FAMILY AND THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER

The pattern of paternal responsibility toward a wife and children is known as a patriarchal family system. Throughout the ages of history this family pattern has been variously expressed, too often sadly violating the spirit of the patriarchal order as originally established. In some cultures the father has exercised such complete jurisdiction that he has been known to sell or even put to death members of his family.

This is, indeed, a far departure from the plan of the Lord. It was the divine intent, that a father should not only bless the members of his family according to his patriarchal right, but that he also should be a blessing to them.

In the kingdom established by the Lord, the family and the powers and authority of the Priesthood are inseparably connected. We read that Priesthood was originally exercised in the patriarchal order; that those who held it exercised their powers first by right of their fatherhood.

It is so with the great Elohim. This first and strongest claim on our love, reverence and obedience is based on the fact that he is the Father, the Creator, of all mankind. Without him we are not, and consequently we owe to him our existence and all that flows therefrom — all we have and all that we are. . . . But as men on earth cannot act in God's stead as his representatives without the authority, appointment and ordination naturally follow (Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., page 147).

In fact, the Priesthood which prevailed from Adam to Moses

944

LESSON DEPARTMENT

was the Patriarchal Order . . . "the direction of the Church in those days was by patriarchs" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, III:104). We may add that one of the greatest contributions derived from ancient scripture is its historical and doctrinal "support of the unity of the family and the patriarchal order" (Richards, Stephen L.: Where Is Wisdom, page 6).

It is evident from the following scriptural excerpt, that Abraham was familiar with the Patriarchal Order. That he desired the blessings of the fathers and the right whereunto he should be ordained to administer the same, is confirmed in the Book of Abraham, 1:4: "I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed."

Through recent courses of study concerning the relationship of Priesthood to Church government and to the home, Relief Society sisters are aware of the fact that our Father's "house is a house of order." They know that the Priesthood represents the authority given by the Lord to his worthy sons to carry out various ordinances and to represent him in various ways. It entitles the bearer to guidance in presiding over his family. If, however, the husband who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood is to receive divine sanction and the blessing of the Lord, he must preside according to righteous principles.

If the family is to enjoy eternal continuity, certain ordinances, including temple marriage, which involve the wife as well as the bearer of the Priesthood, must be performed. Both must be worthy and their worthiness must be maintained in faith and with obedience to the covenants made.

GOSPEL TEACHING — A FAMILY FUNCTION

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God. . . .
But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14-15).

From the viewpoint of gospel teaching, the function and responsibility of the family go far beyond that of equipping the child physically to meet the world. The home should prepare him to meet life with faith in himself, and with a feeling of security and courage. Especially should he be equipped with a firm belief that he is a child — a beloved child — of God.

SUMMARY

The family is the basic unit of organized society. As such, it carries the responsibility of being an influence for good upon that society. Through ancient and modern revelation we know of the divine and eternal status of the family, and that by complying with certain designated requirements, the family, as such, may continue throughout eternity. As believers in the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is our responsibility and our privilege to share in this great and eternal joy.

945

DECEMBER 1964

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. In what concrete ways can our families influence the community for good?

2. How can we help our children realize the importance of family continuity in the eternity?

3. How can we help our children understand that divine commandments are given as a guide and a blessing, and not as arbitrary restrictions?

4. Many people attend Church from their childhood on, yet they do not get married in the temple. Why is this?

LITERATURE    The Individual and Human Values
              As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 6 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature —
