Editorial ? Modern' Superstition
======================================================================

SUPERSTITION. Intelligent people flatter themselves today with the thought that superstition is an out-worn and very much discarded habit of mind. The ancient Oriental belief in magicians and incantations is supposed to be shaken to its foundation, even in the most remote pagan countries, while all forms of Middle Age witchcraft beliefs are supposed to be absolutely routed and thrown into the discard. There never was a greater fallacy. Belief in God and m the devil and refusal to believe in either was just as fixed anciently, and at the same time as much in a state of constant flux amongst those old Egyptians, Chinese, Assyrians, Greeks and Romans, as it is today in our so-called enlightened modern civilization. When a man like "Alexander" can come into the state of Utah, and m less than two weeks extract over $20,000 in clear profits from the pockets of the credulous and superstitious living in Salt Lake City, we certainly cannot lay.any claim either to much enlightenment or to lack of superstition It is most surprising that even Latter-day Samts would throw good monev and more precious time away upon such a mixture of shrewd charlatanism and hoary superstition as was embodied in this man Alexander. What he could not accomplish through familiar legerdemain methods, he achieved through spiritualism. Either one is surely not very refined nor mtellige nt amusement for Relief Society women. _ The longing to know something about the future is one ot the most deep-seated passions of the human heart. Every fortuneot or fortune-telling method that promises results obtains hordes very eager seekers after the veiled events ahead of us. It is 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. evident that if the Lord wanted his children to know what would come to pass he would have provided constant and easy means for them to receive this information. Knowing, as we do, that the most vital lesson his children were to learn on this earth was faith u\ the future, we can see why he withheld knowledge of the future in order that we might develop that faith. He has provided a legitimate and satisfying mode for looking into the future. He has given us, through the mouths of prophets ancient and modern, general descriptions of the history of the earth and of the human family. He himself has avoided dates and set times. It is the devil who gladly leads on his curious followers after illegal knowledge of the future with dates and names and times. We suggest to our sisters that neither they nor their families shall indulge in fortune telling through tea cups, cards, necromancers, spiritualists, or fortune tellers of any sort whatever. Keep right away from such people, remember what Brigham Young once said: "Don't get on the devil's ground." PATRIARCHAL BLESSINGS. The destiny of this people and the history of this Church are prophetically foretold in sacred writ. We have also amongst us the evangelists or patriarchs, whose duty and obligation it is to bless the Saints and through the inspiration of the Lord acquaint them with the promises of the future. Do the mothers of this people encourage their daughters to visit the patriarchs of the Church, presided over by our beloved and noble young Patriarch, Hyrum G. Smith? Certainly every woman in the Church should instruct her children and children's children concerning their privileges, if they will take advantage of the opportunity afforded, through the blessings of the patriarchs. Great indeed is the responsibility resting upon the evangelists of this Church, but never, so far as the writer knows, has any patriarch in the Church been led astray in the exercise of his priestly functions. The father of any family is the head or patriarch of that family, and it is his prerogative to bless his children, and his children's children to the latest generation; but the public exercise of the priestly blessing belongs of right to the Church patriarchs. Women sometimes bless each other and their little children, which is eminently proper and fitting both in times of sickness, sorrow or distress; but neither they nor other lay members of the Church are justified in announcing the lineage of the person blessed, which is the prerogative of the patriarchs of the Church, upon which in no sense should any one trench. There is order in all these matters, and by observing the order of the priesthood we shall be blessed, and happy in blessing ^each other. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June. THE DOCTRINE OF INSPIRED ONES AS SET FORTH IN THE BOOK OF MORMON. "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land. "And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters. "And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles, and were smitten." (I. Nephi 13: 12, 13, 144.) All real Christians believe that God holds within his hands the destinies of the nations and the world; many people believe that the United States constitution was divinely inspired, because they have watched its course and growth among the nations. On this point the Latter-day Saints can have no doubt, and surely in all sacred literature there is no other place where the faith of God directing the course of nations is stated in a more entirely positive way than in the passages already quoted. The Book of Mormon tells us that the Spirit of God wrought upon the man, who was Columbus, and he went forth upon the mighty waters to the seed of Nephi's brethren; a statement showing that when the due time of the Lord came for this continent, folded in darkness for many centuries, to be brought into the lime-light, it was done. There were many centuries between the Christian Era and the discovery of America, when on both continents civilization all but perished from the earth, when the world, whose earlier maps indicated that they had known of a continent beyond the great seas, gave no further evidence of such knowledge. Nevertheless, inthe Lord's time that knowledge was again revealed, in this latter time, in all its fulness. 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. And yet, our Father in heaven works on natural principles. He took a man to whom no doubt it was natural to ponder over these things, from the most forward nation of Europe, for Italian civilization was in advance of that of other countries at that time, and led him to another nation moving rapidly towards the fulness of its power, and there he obtained the political and financial backing necessary for his great venture. How forcefully has this item of history been brought to our minds in these days; for while England reminds us that America is her daughter, of her laws and her speech an heir; and Fraace, of Lafayette and Rochambeau; Italy tells us that an Italian discovered America, and she now wants America to discover Italy. In line with the significance of that fact the chief exexcutive of our nation made special provision in his program in Italy for a visit to Genoa, and while there placed a wreath upon the statue of Columbus. As it was with Columbus and the Pilgrims, it has been, no doubt, with other men and with other groups of men. We have no doubt about this matter, as it affected Lehi and his little colony, nor have we doubts about the inspiration of Jared and his brethren. We recall the finding of the Liahona and its effective work, and are reminded that both the barges of the Jaredites and the ship that Nephi built were builded under the inspiration of the Lord of hosts, and the latter was really a submarine. It certainly should not be difficult for Latter-day Saints to conclude that men and groups of men, in all ages, have been inspired that his righteous purposes might be fulfilled. How marvelous the translation of the English Bible, under the supervision of King James, and the preserving of the Mook of Mormon in the Hill Cumorah! May we not pause here for an instant to consider how important a translation of the Bible of such signal excellence is to the world at this time; for no other language in the civilized world is as widely spoken as the English language, and the extent to which it is destined to serve the children of men no one can foresee. Truly James Russell Lowell was right when he characterized the English language as the best product of the confusion of tongues. The flood-tide of invention, since 1830, from the railroad on the one hand, to the automobile and the flying machine on the other, all bear evidence of the fact that God is inspiring men to do these things that shall eventually lead to the consummation of all things in righteousness. Thomas A. Edison and John M. Browning, each by original nature no doubt, had strong inclinations to seek after the highly specialized type of knowledge which their inventions reveal, but each, no doubt, has been inspired by the Lord to do the thing that he has done, GUIDE LESSONS. 305 And thus we move on, and thus God continues to work on natural principles for the consummation of his will. The late war reveals no brighter spot, perhaps, than the spectacle of the smitten Turk, who must surely relinquish his land to God's ancient covenant people, the Jews. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Relate the story of the discovery of America as it is set forth in the Book of Mormon. 2. Show that while God inspires men to great achievements, he works on entirely natural principles. 3. Show that our Father in heaven is a great economist in operating thus. 4. To what Spanish monarch did Columbus make his appeal for political and financial backing? 5. What events of recent history had caused the Italians, French and English to remind us of our connection with them? 6. How does this desire for co-operation make for international good will? 7. Give evidence that in all ages Gqd inspired men and groups of men to do the acts that have made for growth and advancement in the world. 8. Explain how an expert translation of the Bible preserves the Bible for humanity. 9. Why is the expert translation of the English Bible of prime importance at the present time? LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in June. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in June. SURNAMES DERIVED FROM TRADES AND OCCUPATIONS. Teachers' Outlines. (Chap. i6 in Surname Book.) The Anglo-Saxons were the farmers and trades-people. Surnames from trades are originally Anglo-Saxon. Surnames derived from: (a) The farmer and his helps. (b) Builders and carpenters, etc. 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. (c) Freemen or hinds. (d) Millers, carters, ostlers, coopers, clerks, turners, etc. Guilds or trades unions were powerful in the middle ages. LESSON STATEMENT. We learn in a former lesson that the Anglo-Saxons were farmers and trades people. This being,so we would naturally conclude that surnames derived from trades and occupations show a pretty clear descent from Anglo-Saxon stock and not from the mixed Norman stock. As Anglo-Saxons formed the great body of the English people, we would expect to find the large majority of English surnames derived from trades and occupations. Such indeed is the case. We might add that this fact is true of all European counrties. The great mass of surnames are trade and occupative surnames, because the great mass of the people are the yeomanry, who are either agriculturists or trades people. First we have the farmer and all his helpers in toil, the plowman and the reaper, the sower and the binder ? these all are well represented in surnames. Next came the builders and carpenters, who are represented almost as extensively as are the farmers. We must make allowances, however, for the changes in language which have taken place in the seven or eight hundred years which have elapsed since.surnames were universal, so that terms which were used then such as cotter, hind, freeman, thegn and laet are obsolete with us today, but we find traces of them in English surnames. There is a cloud of surnames derived from the millers, carters, ostlers, coopers, clerks, turners, weavers, etc., and all of them point plainly to Anglo-Saxon origin. When the name originated it would be William the Miller, Thomas the Carter, and John the Cooper; but soon the was dropped and the trade was attached to the family as a permanent addition to the various personal names. During the middle ages the trades unions were the most powerful cogent social influence known. Indeed so dominant did they become that courts and nobles were obliged to join with them and adopt some guild as a part of social and civic life. QUESTIONS. Why do we suppose that surnames are derived from trades? Indicate Anglo-Saxon inheritances for those who bear them. What can you say of the Anglo-Saxon farmer? Name some surnames derived from agricultural pursuits. Give a list of surnames derived from the carpenter's trade. GUIDE LESSONS. 307 Who were the Anglo-Saxon freemen? Who were the yeomen? What is the meaning of the word hind? How many surnames have you in your class or in your ward derived from trades and occupations? What is a trades union? Describe the guilds of the middle ages. We suggest to all our students and workers in genealogy that they cultivate a plain round style of penmanship in making out records, both for their own use and for use of temple recorders. The illegible and undecipherable penmanship that is often handed in to the temple recorders is not only extremely puzzling and annoying, but it is also a great waste of time for them, and above all, it renders the records unsafe to use. The recorders are not able, at times, to spell names of persons and places correctly, nor are they able to decide what figures mean; 7's, 9's, 2's and 4's, u and n, with w and v and i are all mixed up and written so abominably that not even the person who wrote them is able always to tell what is meant. Sisters, we suggest that as a side line, in your genealogical work, you organize classes in penmanship and teach people how to write clearly and unmistakably. LESSON VI. Home Courses. Fourth Week in June. THE INFLUENCE OF DOMESTIC FACTORS IN HEALTH CONSERVATION. It is now an accepted fact that the quality of the Nation depends on the right care, conduct and methods of the home; so that upon parents devolve the responsibilities and duties of home organization and the moulding of character, by which is determined the standard of individual national worth. Seeing then, that homes are the source of efficient human beings, that is, individuals contributing their quota of energy, labor and intelligence to the universal welfare, the continuation of untrained domestic methods is rapidly giving place to the recognition of Home Making as a profession, requiring the greatest skill, and adequate preparation, as well as the co-operation of both parents. Homes are designed for the protection and security of their inmates; but are they rightly called means of physical shelter when yearly there is such an appalling loss of, or damage to, child life, from accidents by fire, water or preventable diseases? Again, are they justly described as moral shelters, when the parents' attitude towards life, which largely colors that of the household, is often harassed, depressed, or over fatigued. In some houses the smiling face is preserved for visitors only, just as are carefully served food and mutual politeness. Such standards are detrimental to a harmonious home atmosphere, impair health through the nervous tension which prevails, and offer unsatisfactory examples to impressionable young people. No double standardforof visitors. circle, another "Manners" Hereis permissible, one in the also are established family social and civic standards which later dominate state and country. Illegitimate expenditures on social functions, give false impressions of income, sacrifice daily healthful essentials, and react upon national efficiency by fostering false ideals in youth. Home Life should be so happy that children will there find ample opportunity for amusement rather than seek entertainment from outside attractions, which excite and over stimulate young minds. The character of books and periodicals drawn from the public library, the kind of plays presented in theatres, the most patronized type of "movie," are one and all decided by the moral standard cultivated in each home. Music, games, pets, books, daily -reading aloud, habits of sharing bits of news, all tend to unite the members of a household and promote a moral atmosphere of harmony, most conducive to healthy existence. Often unconsciously, a mother sacrifices personal recreation and mental refreshments in serving the physical needs of her family. The father returns immersed in business cares, without realizing that their individual efficiency is thereby curtailed and a bad example set to the children. Much fatigue and time could be saved by a more intelligent division of home duties, which lightens labor and cultivates the essential spirit of co-operation. In the next place, parents must know that mere abundance of food does not nourish children, but the wise selection, preparation and service of the right food stuffs. The formation of good eating habits is a national duty. Authorities insist that diet is a relatively complex thing; none of the essential constituents can be ignored in its planning without loss to the consumer; but they also assure us that the observance of certain general rules insures the reduction of common faults to a minimum. For instance, a diet which consists chiefly of peas, beans, potatoes, roots and meats will not promote adult health or child growth. There may not be actual illness, but there will not be optimum health, unless there be a sufficient addition of milk, eggs and leafy vegetables, such as cabbage, lettuce, etc. No care is too great to establish early good habits of internal GUIDE LESSONS. 309 as well as of external bodily cleanliness; to include, in the one case, regularity of the functions of excretion, and in the other, care of the bed; that is, the daily throwing back of all the covers and arching of the mattress to permit free circulation of air. This is necessary to dry off the bedding, which receives an average of one pint of perspiration per night, evaporated from the skin during.sleep. The death rate from pneumonia and kindred diseases is a serious source of national anxiety at the present time. To what extent may the cause be found in unwise selection of clothing, which by its unsuitability to season lowers the wearer's capacity to resist attack of infections? For instance, thin shoes on snowy side-walks; short socks or bare arms (because mothers think the child's bare limbs look pretty) ; unequal distribution of clothing; all impose a strain on the nervous system, lowering vitality and predisposing to many forms of" internal congestion. Reference must also be made to the detrimental results of overheating the houses. "Man requires cool air and moisture around him," writes Dr. James J. Walsh. "Overheated of dry air makes him too susceptible to disease. In a temperature over 68 degrees, it is difificult, for men and women to exist healthfully. Fresh, cool, moist air is the foe of pneumonia, and persons who keep their houses cool and breathe fresh, moist air need have no fear of it." It is a new thought to many that national efficiency is promoted by the wise choice of household equipment; 'health is maintained where fatigue is diminished and efficiency promoted. I' or instance, the steam pressure cooker, if used daily (instead of being shut away as it is in many homes, except during the fruit canning season) saves not only about half the fuel otherwise used, thus releasing cash for other purposes, but saves much time and energy by the rapidity with which it accomplishes its work. Few women realize that they actually control the quality and efficiency of utensils on sale in the stores. Were they to purchase only the best types of food chopper, fruit presser, cream whip, etc., the poor designs wich are now bought by unobserant purchasers would disappear, while through the improvement of domestic processes, diet and health would improve, and nerve strain would diminish, a finer type of citizen being the result. The same criticism applies to the purchase of textiles, shoes or furnishings. Any failure to maintain the highest health standard m each home imposes an unrecognized burden on public finances. One idividual unable to contribute his or her full quota to productive national life diminishes the national income to that extent. Each premature death robs the country of a potential producer; each maimed, sickly weakling (mental or physical) costs often a large 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sum for state maintenance over many years, for which the tax payer is responsible. Questions. 1. Give four reasons why Home Making can be no longer considered an unskilled occupation? 2. Suggest means by which parents can find more time to become the companions of their children? How would this react on National Welfare? 3. In what way does careless homemaking involve civic expenditure? 4. Give illustrations of what might be described as false domestic standards? 5. How does the early formation of good habits contribute to civic work? HEAVENLY MUSIC. By A. A. Ramsey er. The following circumstance will interest our readers: Sister Annie D. Watson, who has been very diligent in arranging records for temple work, engaged in this work after being deprived of her hearing, since her affliction hindered her from continuing her labors as a temple worker. Her deafness, however, has turned to be a blessing in disguise to herself and those whom she has helped. President Anthon H. Lund promised her once that she should "hear the softest strains of the sweetest music." One summer night of 1916, about 10 o'clock, while she was tending her lawn, she heard some beautiful singing, and the following verse was sung three times, which riveted it upon her memory, so that she was able to dictate it: When grief and affliction, and war's stern command. Have blighted affection and wasted the land. And the proud, haughty nations each other assail, The grandest will envy your home in the Vale. "DON'T WORRY" While there are no meetings How often do we hear a lady say: is a good time to read "I don't know what to have for dinner tonight." Our complete stock of the very finest of Meats, Fish, Poultry, Vegetables, Fruits and Groceries, together with real service, enables us to serve "Love and Light" By O. F. Whitney and advise you. Phones, Hyland 60, 61 and 62 $1.25 at the S. S. Dickinson Co. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 676-680 East 2nd South Street BOOK STORE "THE CLEAN STORE" The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East on South Temple Street Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS KEISTER Ladies' Tailoring College "THE SCHOOL THAT TURNS OUT DRESSMAKERS" Established 1904 Skilled instructors. Most advanced methods. Strictly money-back to every student. Desirable Location 291 Center Street SALT LAKE CITY AN ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER LET EARDLEY BROS. DO IT 37 East First South - - Salt Lake City, Utah Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "Say It With Flowers" Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty. CHILD FLORAL CO. With DRUEL DRUG CO. 2nd South and Main. Busy Corner. Phone W. 700 A NEW BOOK THE: The Utah State By Dr. James E. Talmage National Bank The Vitality of Mormonism features quick and efficient service. This work, consisting of 360 pages, is published by the Gotham Press, Boston, Mass., and comprises the articles written by SALT LAKE CITY Dr. Talmage and published in many of the great and influential newspapers of the country. UTAH The book contains all the articles published up to the time of its issue. One feature is Bound in Cloth, $1.50 postpaid the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE Officers News Building & Main St. Heber J. Grant, President George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier Henry T. McEwan, Cashier THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD ATTEND The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given. 2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements. 3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured. Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21, Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it. Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C. IS A VACATION RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In This Number: "In Memory of the Martyrdom," frontispiece. Two timely articles on Health ? "Germs and Disease," "The House Fly," by Dr. Martin P. Henderson. The continuation of the characteristic autobiography by Margaret Gay Judd Clawson, and "Mothers of Our Leaders." Two stories, "The Paymaster," by Lucy S. Burnham; and "The House of Gifts," by Clara S. Fagergren. L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE approved TEMPLE garments are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Lot No. Price 11 ? Light weight cotton $1.50 20 ? Light weight cotton, bleached 1.70 60 ? Medium weight cotton 1.85 22 ? Medium weight cotton, bleached 2.00 90 ? Heavy weight cotton 2.35 24 ? Heavy weight cotton, bleached 2.50 50 ? Extra white double, bleached Mores 3.00 10? Medium weight wool mixture 3.00 16 ? Heavy weight wool 3.50 18 ? Extra heavy wool 5.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle INFANT SHIRTS? Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age. MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hy. 616 This beautiful Instrument will be sent to Your Home to charm Your Family evenings and entertain Your Friends when they drop in-IF YOU SAY THE WORD. $100. $12 Down and $8 a Month Including 24 Selections SALT LAKE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Eat Plenty of Good Bread Bread is the most nutritious and nourishing of all foods. It is the most economical. And for real bread deliciousness ? flavor, quality, purity ? insist upon ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking The scrupulous care used in its making ? the fact that only the highest quality TESTED ingredients enter into it, the very "heart of the wheat" ? insures bread which is guaranteed clean and pure ? bread which you and your family can eat with safety. FRESH EVERY DAY? at your grocer's. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE THRIFT IS POWER SAVE AND SUCCEED A thrifty nation is a Gibraltar against the surf of anarchy and revolution and all the destructive forces that follow in the wake of extravagance, thoughtless, blind living. SAVE AND BUY W. S. S. The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS JUNE, 1919. Verses Charles W. Penrose 311 In Memory of the Martyrdom 312 Mothers of Our Leaders 313 A Utah Morning Maud Baggarley 316 Rambling Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson 317 There was an Unhappy Woman Annie G. Lauritzen 327 The Paymaster Lucy S. Burnham 328 Helps for Health Talks 334 Why Not? Mrs. Parley Nelson 334 History of Instrumental Music Brigham Cecil Gates 335 June Magic Morag 340 Faith Grace Ingles Frost 341 The House of Gifts Clara S. Fagergren 342 Our Temple Mothers