The Official Round Table:. Clarissa Smith Williams and Amy Brown Lyman
======================================================================

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The most important and interestinghappening for women in the last month has been the recognition by the Paris Peace Conference of equal civil rights for the sexes. This surely will put an end to opposition for women suffrage in our nation, as well as in all other enlightened countries. Women everywhere are rejoicing over this triumph of right. The National Woman's Suffrage Association met in St. Louis, March 28 and 29, under the able leadership of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who is not only a member of our General Board, but is also President of the State Suffrage Association, with Miss Alice L. Reynolds, of Provo, who represents the women of that section, were our delegates at this great convention. The jubilee convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association elected Mrs. C. H. Brooks, of Wichita, Kansas, as permanent chairman of the League of Women Voters to serve until the next national convention of the suffrage association, which will be held in February, 1920, as a centennial celebration of Susan B. Anthony's birthday. By that time it is expected that the federal suffrage amendment will have been passed, and the National Suffrage association will take' the name of League of Women Voters. The League of Women Voters is composed of women of twentyfive states, in which there are more than 13,000,000 women voters. As other states are granted suffrage they become units of the league. The league decided to erect a monument in Cheyenne, Wyoming, where women were first granted the franchise; endorsed a plan of Americanization for the United States, and appointed committees to take up at once the study of laws on citizenship, elections, social morality and hygiene, unification of laws, food supply and demand. The Americanization plan as approved, provides: Compulsory education for all children between the ages of 6 and 16, with school attend- 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ance provided for nine months of each year; education of illiterate adults; stricter provisions of naturalization; votes for women to be given only to those who are naturalized in their own person or through naturalization of their father or mother or husband, after a residence of five years; naturalization laws to be so changed as to permit a married woman to be naturalized on her own qualifiactions; English to be the language of all public and private schools; oath of allegiance to the United States, as a qualification of the vote of all citizens; establishment of schools of citizenship in all school districts, and an educational qualification for every voter. The Illinois delegation has invited the next national convention to be held in Chicago. The outstanding feature of the convention was the adoption by the women delegates of the League to Enforce Peace and their determination to stand by the Peace Council sitting at Versailles. While women of both political parties may differ from President Wilson in some of his expressed views and points for a League constitution, every woman who loves freedom and an opportunity for self-expression must be grateful to President Wilson and his associates for the splendid recognition afforded them just recently in Paris. Men in high places politically, and men in low places, will have to reckon with women voters in the future. The campaign for the collection of clothing to relieve the terrible conditions in Europe, especially in Belgium, has been eminently successful in this state. The Red Cross has handled the matter with wisdom and dispatch, and the results have been overwhelmingly successful. The Fifth Liberty Loan has found Utah able and willing to meet her obligations to the country and to prove her loyalty through the thrift and patriotism of her citizens. As usual the women did the most of the detail work, and as usual they did it well. The postponement of the April conference was a great disap ointment atheadquarters. The General Board had prepared a full and instructive program for our own two days' conference. This summer many of the Societies will wish for some chance to catch up with lesson work, as so much has been lost because of "flu" conditions. The General Board are arranging some articles on Music and Special Hygiene. They will appear in the Magazine, as supplementary or informal studies. The choir leaders may or may not use the articles as lessons. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 289 NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Alpine Stake. A neat little folder has just been received at the general offices of the Relief Society. It is entitled "A Tribute to the Relief Societies of the Church," and was written in commemoration of the first organization of the Relief Society. It is signed by the Presidency of the Alpine stake: Stephen L. Chipman, James H. Clark, and Abel John Evans. In the introduction itstates that this tribute is to be read to every family in the Alpine stake of Zion by the ward teachers for the month of March, 1919. Following this is the date of the first organization, in 1842, with the original officers of the Relief Society. Next are the present general presiding officers, then the Relief Society officers of the Alpine stake. The General Board is indeed grateful for this splendid Appreciaition of the work of the Relief Society and with the spirit which prompted it. Such splendid support as is indicated in this article would make any stake Relief Society successful. The folder closes with the following tribute: "The labors and services of these noble and virtuous women are free, without money or price. Such service cannot be found in all the world, in any other Society known. In fact the organization of the Relief Society, in 1842, was the first known for the women in all the world. "Women as a rule have a keener sense of the needs of sufifering humanity, than have men; in their administration, they are gentle and kind, and become angels of love and mercy to those who are cast down. "They are women of faith, of hope and of charity, and consequently administer spiritual food, as well as physical strength. "They were organized under inspiration, and should receive the earnest support of every member of the Church of Christ. "Reports are made annually, and every cent accounted for that goes through the hands of our sisters. "March 17th of each year is celebrated in all the wards in commemoration of the first organization. "We recommend that every young woman, and especially our married daughters, join this benevolent organization and become active workers. "We solicit the support that the Society requires from our brethren and sisters and friends, with their means and influence. We sincerely hope that the Relief Society will grow and prosper, until every family can be well cared for, and that no one will be found hungry or destitute in our midst. 290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "We also reconmend that as many of our sisters as can, should attend the Relief Society conferences of the Church, so they can keep in touch with the workings of the Society. "Praying that comfort will come to those who need comfort, and that faith will come to those who need faith, and that the poor will always be cared for, is the desire of the Alpine Stake Presidency. "Stephen L. Chipman, " "James H. Clark, "Abel John Evans." Oneida Stake. Mrs. Lucy M. Cutler, first counselor to President Nellie P. Head of the Relief Society of the Oneida stake, departed this life January 30, 1919, of influenza. In the passing of Mrs. Cutler, the Oneida stake loses not only a capable and conscientious officer, but a devoted and faithful member. Mrs. Cutler was a woman who understood and appreciated the gospel and who endeavored at all times to live in accordance with its teachings. During her life she served in various offices in each of the three women's organizations of the Church, and at the time she was chosen counselor in the Stake Relief Society, she was acting president of the Primary Association of the Oneida stake. While Mrs. Cutler was very active in the Church and public work, she neglected none of her home duties. She was the proud mother of twelve children, all of whom are left to love and cherish her memory. Cassia Stake. In a letter from Cassia stake we learn that several of the Relief Society women have attended a Chapter Course in Home Service, given at Twin Falls by the Northwestern Division of the Red Cross. This course, which was under the supervision of Miss Virginia McMechen of the Division office, was very interesting and instructive. Several home institutes have been held in this Division, at Seattle. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the General Board attended the Institute held in Seattle, in June, 1918. The teachers' training classes have been organized in this stake, and the president, Mrs. Tine I. Jack, feels that these courses will be very helpful to the class teachers in the Relief Society. From the stake report recently received, we learn that in spite of the siege of influenza a great deal of work has been accomplished and the membership has an increase of 59 over last year; 492 days have been given in nursing care, and 823 special visits to the sick, in addition to the 257 regular visits made by the Relief Society ward teachers. The sum of $1,300 has been subscribed by ward Relief Societies in Liberty Bonds; and in THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 291 addition, the individual members of the stake have subscribed to the amount of $8,920. One or two items from the Red Cross report will indicate the activity along that line: number of hospital garments made, 456; hospital supplies, 754; number of knitted articles, 1,254; articles collected for Belgian relief, 1,570. Tahitian Mission. The following very interesting letter has been received from Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, of the Tahitian Mission: "I am today sending the annual report of the Tahitian Mission Relief Society, and trust that it will not be too late to be included in the 1918 general report; but since at this port all local vessels have been held under quarantine with the Spanish influenza since last November, I have not been able to communicate with the different island branches and get the material to compile the report. "We have had a terrible siege here of the influenza, people dying in such numbers that they could not be buried, and were therefore burned. Entire families were wiped out, and houses are standing empty all around us. "Five of our elders contracted it, but fortunately had very light cases. The rest of us escaped it entirely, for which we are very grateful. "By the report you will see that our members have been very diligent the past year in raising funds for different purposes. The sisters of the Takaroa and Hikueru branches have purchased organs for their respective branches, the Takaroa sisters raising $145 in one day by voluntary donations of $5 each, for that purpose. The remaining amount was raised by diving for pearls, and making coprah (dried cocoanut). "In the erection of a new chapel, at Hikueru, the sisters assisted with the sum of $217.60, and also prepared the meals daily for the brethren who turned out en masse to build it. "You will find enclosed $30 for the Temple Building Fund.' "We all send our love and heartiest congratulations to 'Aunt Em,' and hope that she may yet live many years to lead this great Relief Society work and to inspire and lead us on by her revered presence. "I remain sincerely "Your sister in the gospel, "'Venus R. Rossiter.'^ In the Tahitian Mission there is a total membership of 118. During the last year the theological and home economics lessons have been studied. With the sick, 190 days have been spent, 591 special visits have been made to the sick, 25 families helped, and ten bodies prepared for burial; $292 have been paid for charitable purposes, and $296 for general purposes. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES FOR 1919. Relief Society Stake Conferences for May, June and July will be held in connection with the Stake quarterly conferences, v/herever and whenever the latter are to be held. We are advised from the General Church Offices that the holding of quarterly conferences for the next quarter will depend upon health conditions in the various local communities and upon the recommendation of the stake presidents. Relief Society stake officers will, therefore, consult with the stake presidency and learn from them as to whether or not conferences will be held. The Conference dates following have been arranged tentatively pendinglocal conditions. Relief Society Conferences held in November will be held independently. Conference Dates. May 3rd and 4th — Curlew, Alberta, Boise, Maricopa, Raft River, South Sanpete, Wayne. May 10th and 11th — Emery, Millard, Juab, Taylor, St. Joseph. May 17th and 18th — San Juan, Shelley, Bannock, Malad, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Teton, Juarez. May 24th and 25th — Portneuf, Bingham, Pocatello, Young, Bear Lake. May 31st and June 1st — Rigby, Panguitch, Moapa, Idaho, San Luis. June 7th and 8th — Kanab, Morgan, Oneida. June 21st and 22nd— St. George, North Sanpete, Uintah, Star Valley, Union, Montpelier. June 28th and 29th — Sevier, Fremont, Deseret, Duchesne, Parowan. July 19th and 20th — Beaver, Benson, Hyrum, Tooele, Tintic, St. Johns. July 26th and 27th — Wasatch, Woodruff, Cassia, Yellowstone, Snowflake. November (dates to be arranged later) — Alpine, Bear River, Box Elder, Cache, Carbon, Cottonwood, South Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Summit, Utah, Weber. PROGRAM. For stakes holding conferences in connection with quarterly conferences: First Session. Saturday, 2 p. m. Public Session. Quarterly Conference. Conjoint meeting Relief Society and Primary. Second Session. Saturday 4 p. m. Stake and Local Officers Meeting. Third Session. Stake Officers Meeting. (Time and place to be decided by Stake President.) Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Construction -^no JfkcONSTWCnON /N TheHnue HELPFUL POINTS IN WAIST FITTING. When a waist is basted, ready to fit, the different parts should be adjusted in the following order: 1. Center of front and back. 2. Neck — trim, if necessary. 3. Shoulder. 4. Armeye. 5. Lender arm. 6. Waist. The center of the front must be pinned in place so that in fitting, the material is not drawn too far to either side. The low cut necks are very easily adjusted, but in a high neck exact adjustment is absolutely necessary. The best way to insure a perfect fitting neck is to fit it to the collar line and then trim it out to the shape desired. Fit the neck a little above the collar line and make it tight enough to necessitate a little stretching of the material in the curve of the neck. If much trimming or changing of the neck is necessary, unbaste the shoulder. See Fig. I. The dotted line indicates the collar line. By fitting the material as the upper line indicates and a little tight, it is possible to stretch the material so that it fits down into the curve of the neck. The adjusting of the shoulder is, without doubt, the most important feature of waist fitting. Amateurs will often try to correct a fault in shoulder by merely taking up the seam. If the fault is ever so little, take out the basting and see that your front and back pieces come together correctly in the neck. Then proceed from the neck toward the armeye. The front shoulder should be from one-fourth to one-half inch shorter than the back shoulder. This results in a little stretching of the one and a slight fullness of the other and makes a better fitting shoulder. If there is any unevenness let it come out over the shoulder, where 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "^i^o^t- -T. l^n^ ild-^iiMiMt^iiii== > '^?-«i JI U CONSTRUCTION IN THE HOME. 295 it can easily be trimmed off, but do not trim it until you are sure the shoulder is correct. When the front and back of the waist do not fit together, wrinkles such as shown in Fig. II result. This is a very common fault with home made dresses. When the shoulder is satisfactory, turn the armeye. Make a line with pins where the line seems to come and observe it carefully before cutting. The adjustment of the underarm seam should be just as carefully adjusted as the shoulder and this also should be unbasted to make any changes. THE SKIRT. All fitted skirts are based upon the yoke pattern. The upper part of the skirt remains practically the same though the bottom changes with the style. The matter of cutting a plain skirt from the yoke pattern is comparatively simple and a good fitting pattern may be made following these simple directions. The measures required are the waist, the hip and the length (the front and side). Take the waist measure in the waist line. Take the hip measure about five inches below the waist line. It is well to use two tape measures and take both of these measures at the same time. Three length measures are taken from the waist to the floor, then subtract from each the number of inches you desire your skirt to be from the floor. For cutting the yoke pattern, brown wrapping paper is best, but newspaper will do. Take half the waist measure and make two lines of that length at right angles. Connect the two outer ends with a curved line so as to form a quarter of a circle. Five inches further out from this curved line make another curved line. See Fig. III. The space between these two lines forms the yoke. It may be exactly correct, so cut out the yoke after having drafted the pattern on a double piece of paper so that one end of the pattern is on the fold as shown in Fig. III. Then fit it to the person, being careful to place it as the skirt is to be placed at the top. You cannot fit the yoke pattern low and expect to make a skirt with a high waist line. Place the fold of the paper in the center of the front and make little folds, wherever necessary, all the way around, being careful to cut off any extra length in the pattern and have the ends just meet in the center of the back. Do not use this same paper (with the folds in it) for cutting your skirt, but cut another paper the same shape as the first yoke is after being corrected. The next lesson will explain how to use the yoke for cutting a skirt. 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. THE STRAIGHT SKIRT. The spring styles of this year give many suggestions for the use of the straight skirt. These skirts are made of two widths of material a yard wide. If a slight peg effect is desired, slope off about four inches at the bottom of each side of each width. The top may be either gathered or pleated on to the belting. The difference in the front and back lengths must be made at the top of the skirt Tas shown in Fig. IV.) instead of at the bottom. HOW TO COOK BEANS. The despised tepary bean will become as popular in the West as they are in the East and South when we learn how to cook them. They are not to be cooked as the ordinary bean, and unless they are par-boiled in soda-water, and then reboiled for a few minutes, in order to clear them of the soda and natural smell, they cannot be enjoyed; but they can be enjoyed if you will soak them over night in soda water, a teaspoon of soda to a quart of water, then boil half an hour, then pour the water off and reboil for a minute or so; then cook two or three hours, or until nice and tender. Serve like green peas, with rich milk or cream. Recipe No. 2. Prepare as for peas, then eat dry with mayonaise dressing, garnished as salad, with boiled eggs and onions. They are very delicious. WHY HE LOST HIS FRIENDS. He was not loyal to them. He was suspicious of everybody. He borrowed money from them. He measured them by their ability to advance him. He did not know the value of thoughtfulness in little things. He seemed to forget that he who uses his f rinds loses them. He was always jealous of those who were more prosperous than himself. He never thought it worth while to spend time in keeping up his friendships. He was always wounding their feelings, making sarcastic or funny remarks at their expense. He did not realize that friendship will not thrive on sentiment alone: that there must be service to nourish it. He was always ready to recieve assistance from them, but always too busy or too stingy to assist them in their time of need. He used his friends in all sorts of ways and for his own ends, and never hesitated to sacrifice their reputation for his own advantage.— Orison Sweet Harden, in the Nezv Success. (7 Oh TheWatchWower ©OQOOacZJCDCDCDC^aCZ^OCDCZ^IIDCi:] 1 James H. Anderson. Bessarabia, formerly part of Russia, declared itself a re public, in March. The American Congress is to be convened in special session about May 15. Korea attempted to break from Japan, in March, but the rebellion was suppressed. Ex-kaiser William of Germany and Charles of Austria found a home in Switzerland in March. In Northern Russia, the allied troops fought Bolshevik forces in March, being waist deep in snow. Food-ships from America reached German ports on March 20, with supplies for needy people there. In the Argentine Republic, during the last week in March, nearly 2,000 Jews were killed in anti-Jewish riots. Women are to be eligible for office in the proposed league of nations, as the plan was amended on March 26. American army casualties (exclusive of deaths from disease) during the war in Europe numbered 240,197 men. Bolshevism in Russia, Austria and Germany, began a definite campaign in March for a world-wide revolution. Sleeping sickness of a fatal character, following influenza, was reported during March, from various sections of the United States. 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Egypt was the scene of a considerable revolt against British rule, in March, but the uprisal of the natives was quickly suppressed. Italian troops advanced into Hungary on March 25, in enforcing Italy's demand for territory on the Dalmatian coast. The Jews in Poland and Lithuania were subjected to further indignities and loss of life during March, in anti-Jewish riots. President Wilson is announced in Paris dispatches to be "the most carefully dressed person attending the peace council." Japan demands that the proposed league of nations shall provide for race equality, but the English-speaking people refuse their consent. Influenza recurrence in the Rocky Mountain region during March was occasion for postponing the annual April conference of the Church. Holland, when asked in March if it would surrender the former Kaiser William to the entente allies, replied that it would do so only upon legal procedure. There is no legal precedent for such surrender. Aviators of America, Great Britain and France were making preparations in March to cross the Atlantic in April, in special airships. Spain was placed under martial law during the latter part of March, owing to a section of the nation trying to set up an independent government. A MONARCHY or a lapse into Bolshevism seemed to be the alternatives presented to Germany in the near future, by events of the last week in March. The killed, or died of wounds received in battle, during the great war in Europe, from August 1, 1914, to November 11, 1918, numbered 7,354,000 men.. The Jugo-Slavs, a new nation carved out of Austria, finds itself so much at variance with Italy that war between the two nations is not an improbability. In Berlin, during the second week in March, an uprising ON THE WATCH TOWER. 299 of Spartacans, who are akin to anarchists, was suppressed by the killing of several hundred people. Poland was attacked on three sides, in March, by Bolshevist troops, and may not be able to maintain national independence without help from the entente allies. In Great Britain, it is said, there are now a million and a half young women who never will marry, or even be asked to m.arry, owing to the scarcity of men. Turkish atrocities, such as the disemboweling of Armenian women who were supposed to have swallowed jewelry, were reported in March as being continued. In Austria, on March 28, a general railway strike paralyzed all traffic, prevented the movement of relief trains, and produced a most critical situation in that land. Hungary was taken over by a workmen's council government in March, and joined with Russia, thereby creating much anxiety to the nations of western Europe. Germany's present government has announced that it adheres to "President Wilson's fourteen points," and will not surrender any German territorty, east or west. In Mexico, in March, President of the Juarez stake, Bentley, and two other "Mormons" were taken prisoner by Francisco Villa's troops, but were released in a few days. Admission to the league of nations is to be on condition of each nation therein guaranteeing freedom of the press, religious liberty, and protection to property and to its people. The longest flight yet made by an airplane was recorded in March, a British aviator being in the air above the North Sea for A0y2 hours continuously, during which time he traveled 1285 miles. Bodies of American soldiers who died in France are either to be brought home or left where they are, as relatives may desire, according to official announcement made from Washington on March 25. Telegraph operators belonging to the Commercial Telegraphers' Union decided in March to strike all over the United States in April, against Postmaster General Burleson's attitude respecting their union. The Phillipine Islanders took action in March toward insisting on their independence from the United States under President There was Wilson's theory of "self-determination of peoples." no violence. Radio telephone communication (without wires) was established between the office of the secretary of the navy at Washington, D. C, and a naval aeroplane flying 150 miles distant, during the last week in March. The Mid-European Union, comprising the new efforts at small.state governments in middle Europe, have requested munitions of war from America, Great Britain, and France, to aid in resisting the Russian Bolshevists. Semi-official announcement was made from Rome in March, that prior to the meeting of the Paris peace conference, v/hen President Wilson visited the Vatican, he and Pope Benedict came to an agreement on the league of nations plan. Censorship on the cables between America and Europe was,so strict in March that action in the United States Senate against the first draft for a constitution for a league of nations had to be transmitted to Europe by special messengers on steamship lines. Coal-operators in the United States broke ofif negotiations v;ith the government railway administration, on March 27, giving as a reason that the government railway director had broken faith and was insisting on coal at less than cost for the railways, thus compelling an increase in price for all private use. The British government has prepared plans for a tunnel under the strait of Dover, from England to France. The cost will be about 25% greater than the Panama canal, the distance twenty miles, and the lowest point for the tunnel 265 feet below sea level, or 95 feet below the ocean bed at the deepest point in the channel. Pope Benedict, in his allocution at a consistory in Rome on March 10, announced that "It would be a great grief to the holy see if in Palestine the preponderating position were given to infidels, and still greater grief if the holy places were given to a non-Christian power." The infidels referred to are the Turks, and the non-Christian power the Jews. EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmehne B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... Ftrst Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor...----- SosA Youmo Gatm Business Manager...... Jankttk A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 MODERN