Mothers of Our Leaders. :
======================================================================

mothers. We present this month the written testimonals of four of our Church leaders for their mothers, and these glorify all motherhood in the Church because of this public expression. Margaret Judd Clawson. My mother, Margaret Judd Clawson. was a woman of sterling integrity, of cheerful, optimistic disposition, of supreme faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. As I look back on her long and beautiful life, I remember that she was always bright, vivid in personality, and a close companion to all of her children. She never brooded, nor was she pessimistic. Her family inherited the Yankee trait of humor. My uncle, Riley Judd, bubbled over with jokes and laughter; and while my mother inherited also the keen sense of humor which lifted the clouds of sorrow from many a toilsome task, large sacrifice, and her daily heavy labor, still she possessed also a quiet dignity and a modest natural humility which gave her admirable poise and charm. She was a woman of great faith, which she -demonstrated by entering the celestial order of marriage as the second wife of my father, Hyrum B. Clawson. I may be pardoned for referring to the fact, which is well known to all old pioneers, that my 252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. mother and her sister Phoebe were old-time belles of Great Salt Lake City; and when my mother turned aside from other distinguished.suitors, refusing young and gallant lovers to marry my father, she proved both her own good judgment and her implicit faith in the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was sympathetic and adaptable, which made her, of course, popular in her wide circle of friends. This trait, however, was not superficial but extended to her loving charity for the poor and unfortunate wherever she found them. What she did in this regard was done without ostentation and unknown to those about her. She was thrifty and restlessly industrious; M'^ork was her panacea for trouble and sorrow. She was never extravagant, and at her death we found that she had not only provided an ample sum for her funeral expenses and the up-keep of her grave, but there was also a little property left to each one of her children. Mother was always respectful to my father. She taught her children to reverence him and to obey his counsel unquestioningly. We imbibed the teachings of faith and reverence from our earliest years, both through her example and through her stern refusal to listen to complaints which might arise upon our lips in the natural course of events. I never heard my mother gossip; she lived above tittle-tattle and laughed away slander. She was gifted, as the pioneers know, with unusual dramatic ability. This enabled her, undoubtedly, to put herself always in the other person's place and thus to visualize the difficulties of her associates, and even her opposites. She did not expect my father to wait upon her and do the family chores; she treated him with the same dignity that she exacted in our behavior to her. During the later years of my mother's life, she once expressed afear to me that she was losing her old-time vigor, and dreaded lest she might not die in the harness. I suggested to her that there was a beautiful way in which she could round out the course of her life and continue in the most active possible service to the Lord and to the Church: I referred to the labor in the temple, calling her attention to the fact that her dead were awaiting her ministrations and that no matter how many years she might be spared, the results would be glorious. She expressed to me, in the closing months of her life, that this temple work was the crowning joy of her life's activities. She had not realized the happiness and comfort which were hers through that unselfish labor; and therefore for the last few years of her life, instead of sitting around idle, or measurably so, in the homes of her children, or shutting herself up and dabbling over the necessary labor for her own few and simple wants, she devoted three days of every week to the temple work. THE MONTH FOR MOTHERS. 253 These few and insufficient facts concerning my honored mother will perhaps indicate her faith, her integrity, and the value of her life to her family and to humanity. Her children are, perhaps, the best exponents of her life and teachings. RUDGER CLAWSON. Christeen Golden Kimball. You ask me about my mother, and I am honored in replying to your query. Our mother's name was Christeen Golden. She was born in Hopewell, Mercer county, New Jersey, September 12, 1822. Our mother died, January 30, 1896. At the age of 20 her parents sent her to Philidelphia to learn a vocation as a seamstress or dressmaker. A girl friend invited her to attend a "Mormon" meeting, and at this meeting, Elder Jedediah M. Grant was the speaker. Christeen Golden at once accepted the truth. She purchased the Church works and, with a glad heart, returned to her parents and placed before them these Church books, explaining that she had accepted the gospel. Her people were honest Christians, but they rejected their daughter's testimony, and she forsook sake and her accompaniedfather, mother, Elder brother andwife Grant and sisters for the gospel's to Nauvoo. She is the only member of her immediate race that ever joined the "Mormon" Church. She married President Heber C. Kimball in the Nauvoo temple and emigrated to Salt Lake City, in 1848. Mother should be numbered among the pioneers. In the '70's she accompanied her children to Bear Lake, and for the second time, became a pioneer. Thus she made her way into the wilderness, slept in the open, and fought her way through the gates of pain. Through adversity and hardship, she developed her noble characteristics. She was able to choose for herself as well as having courage to act for herself. She then gave ample proof of her unfaltering faith in God and his Son Jesus Christ, and in the gospel. She proved her faith by her works. She was handsome, proud, dignified and ambitions, but her greatness was not in riches or in her achievements but it was by her modesty, her humility, and her service to others that she became a successful servant and followed in the steps of the Master. Christeen Golden Kimball faced the problems of life with unfaltering faith in God and in the promises set forth in the gospel of Jesus Christ. She had the courage and strength of her convictions, and never faltered, wavered, whined or bemoaned her lot, but "learned obedience through the things which she sufifered," and forgot self and selfishness. She had a vision of the future. Though her labors were onerous, she was never a slave to duty, 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. but performed her labors as a Christian duty, feeling always that "it is more blessed to give than to receive." She was true to her God, her religion, her husband, her covenants and her children. The closing days of her life were spent in the temple of God, and in doing work for her parents, brothers, sisters and relatives who had passed into the spirit world; and by doing this work, she became a savior to her race. Our mother's influence developed character in her children, because of her frankness, truthfulness and honesty, her modesty, humility and service to all, both rich and poor, bond and free. These were the great lessons of a real life that has thus far developed the characteristics of her children's lives. She was our great teacher, not in words, but in the Christian life she actually lived. Together with my brother Elias, and my.sister May M. Moffet, we revere her memory, honor her name, and are ready and willing, with gratitude in our hearts, to bow at her shrine with love and reverence in our hearts. As one of her sons, I pay this slight tribute of love and respect we have for our mother, whose life was one of sacrifice and service, not only to her children, but to all who came her way, and to her honored husband. You have this heart-felt expression of our mother, Crystalize these thoughts, and melt them down, but do not lose the thought, so poorly expressed, for it isn't a tithe of what could be said. We, one and all, thank you for the chance to openly express our love for mother, as at no time in her life did she have public notice. She lived and died, "true to the faith," and humbly served God, unnoticed by men. Again thanking you, I am as ever, a true friend and advocate of the Relief Society, who are angels of mercy to sufifering humanity. Itwas the kind hands of Relief Society workers and friends that cared for our mother at the time of her demise. God bless you all: your brother and friend, J. Golden Kimball. JANE A. BICKNELL. I gladly answer the questions you ask concerning my dear mother. I take your questions and answer them seriatim ad literatim. Mother's characteristics were patience, fortitude, undaunted courage. Her love for the gospel, her faith and confidence in God's holy Prophet, her never failing testimony of the divinity of the Book of Mormon, are complete answer to the question of how she faced life's problems. THE MONTH FOR MOTHERS. 255 Her patient endurance, her uncomplaining spirit under the most adverse circumstances, and her making the best of everything, were always inspirations to me. Her attitude toward my father was one of unbounded love and confidence; and to the principles of the gospel, unyielding faith. And now permit me to quote lines by Louisa May Alcott on the death of her mother: The great, deep heart that was a home for all, Just eloquent and strong in protest againsit wrong. Wide charity that knew no fall. The Spartan Spirit that made life so grand, Meeting poor, daily needs with heroic deeds. That wrested happiness from fate's hard hand. We thought to weep, but sing for joy instead, "Full of the grateful peace that followed her release, For nothing but the weary dust lies dead." Oh, noble woman, never more a queen Than in the laying down of Scepter and of crown, To win a greater kingdom, yet unseen. Teaching us how to reach the highest goal. To earn the true success, to live, to love, to bless, And make death proud to release a royal soul. Seymour B. Young. Sabina Shied-Hart. The characteristics of my mother, Sabina Sheid-Hart, were unswerving and unbounded faith in God and his restored gospel and Church. Her family of nine children (seven of whom were reared to maturity) were born and reared without any medical help, faith and reliance being placed absolutely in the blessings of the Lord. My mother was unassuming to the extent of being retiring in her disposition, but exercising influence for good not alone in her family but with all others with whom she came in contact. She was high-minded yet very humble; and integrity and devotion to duty were passions with her. She had profound respect and honor for God's priesthood and taught her children likewise. She faced life's problems with unfaltering faith in God's providences and with sublime courage that he would look after and protect her and her family. The gospel transplanted her from a luxurious life in the most fashionable part of the largest city in the world, to the harshest and humblest of pioneer conditions 256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in the Bear Lake country in the early days of its settlement. Upon being called by President Brigham Young with her husband, James H. Hart, to Bear Lake Valley, to begin with, she lived in a dirt-covered, one-roomed log house with straw for a floor and without windows or doors, and took up life's labors in rearing her family without murmur or discontent. Her greatest influence upon myself and other members of her family was by reason of her simple and sublime faith, her confidence in the gospel, the priesthood and Church, her pride of ancestry, uncompromising honor and integrity and devotion to duty. She was a woman of literary tastes and accomplishments and had a remarkable memory. One of the great services performed for her family was in the use of her knowledge of literature in keeping her children about her, reading good and suitable books, or listening to her read thern, particularly at night, when other allurements might have taken them from the hearthstone. Her attitude towards my father was that of helpfulness. She was intelligently submissive to his position as head of the family, having entire confidence that his judgment would be for the best good of the family. His duties in the ministry took him away from home much of the time and placed the responsibility and burden of the care of the family upon her, but I never heard her murmur at this during all the many years of my father's life and active ministry, Charles H. Hart. FAITH. If you think you are beaten, you are. If you think you dare not, you don't. If you like to win, but think you can't, It's almost a cinch you won't. If you think you’ll lose, you’re lost. Success begins with a fellow's will — It's all in the state of mind. If you think you're outclassed, you are. You've got to think high to rise. You've got to be sure of yourself Before you can win a prize. Life's battles don't always go To the stronger or faster man. But sooner or later the man who wins Is the man with faith he can. Mothers' of Our Leaders. The story told by Sister Clawson is as vivid and delightful as was her own cheery personality. She was greatly admired in her youth, and greatly loved in her later life. She was a charming local actress and her name was a popular household name in early pioneer days. Her simple dramatic pictures of Nauvoo and pioneer Utah life, especially the scenes on the plains, are unsurpassed in home literature for graphic power. They will be enjoyed by all. Sister Clawson died Feb. 10, 1912: RAMBLING REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAWSON. I was born on the 6th day of September, 1831, in what was then called North Crosby, District of Johnstown, County of Leeds, Upper Canada, now Westport. My father's name was Thomas Alfred Judd; my mother's name was Teresa Hastings. My paternal grandfather's mother, Phebe Smith. Myname was Joel maternal Judd', paternal grandfather grandwas George Washington Hastings; maternal grandmother, Margaret Gay. I was the eldest of six children, namely, Margaret Gay, William Riley, Rosalie, Phebe Teresa, George Thomas, and Alfred Hastings. My parents and grandparents were all living in Canada when I was born, but not one of them was born or reared under the English government, and they were always loyal to their native land, the United States. They were both born in the state of New York. In looking over father's papers since his death, I find the following: "I, Thomas Alfred Judd, married Teresa Hastings, December 27, 1830, in Canada West, County Leeds, District of Johnstown, by Esquire Denney. Here we embraced the gospel and were baptized by John E. Page, July 26, 1836. In 1838, we sold our farm and removed in February to the States, in order to gather with the Saints. My wife and myself were the first two baptized in that branch of the Church." When my father's family arrived in the States, they stopped in a place called Hammond. They were preparing to go to Missouri with a company of Saints that were going that summer, but mother had gone on a farewell visit to her parents and relatives in Canada when the company of Saints passed through, and that was the only reason that saved us from being mobbed out of Missouri with the rest of the Saints. I was a little girl at the time, but I remember hearing a lady say to mother: "Sister Judd, aren't you glad you did not get 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to Missouri?" Mother said, with considerable warmth, "No, indeed; I wish I had been there with knowing mother knew she meant what thesheSaints," and anybody said. I have heard mother tell what a sorrowful scene it was — the last parting with her family. They were a very affectionate family, and mother the most tender-hearted woman I ever knew. She was her father's idol. To leave them all and go far, far away, where she might never see or hear from them again in this world was a dreadful trial. It seemed to them all that she was going to the ends of the earth. Her mother said: "Oh, Teresa, how can you be the first one to break the family link?" It rent mother's heart, for she loved her family dearly, but she was parting from them for the gospel's sake, and she would have made a thousand times greater sacrifice. What a fearless, courageous woman mother was! She had the courage of a lion and the gentleness of a lamb. How few there are like her. I cannot do justice to her greatness and goodness. She was a born pioneer, for nothing daunted her. After leaving Hammond, they moved to a village called Bonville, Oneida county, not far from Utica, and very near the Erie Canal, which was then being built. After that they went to another little place. They were all the time preparing to go to Nauvoo, Illinois. It took the strictest economy for poor people to make that long journey, and in their own conveyances. Father went back to Montreal, Canada, to buy horses for the trip; they were cheaper in Canada, and were said to be the best and hardiest animals for traveling. How delighted Brother Riley was with the ponies! These ponies proved very good ones and when we had reached the end of the journey, father said that they were just as good as when we started. Our journey was like all such journeys — it had its pleasant side, and its unpleasant side. When the sun was shining and the roads were good, we trotted along feeling that we would soon be at our destination, but when the rain poured down and the roads were so bad that we could not travel — then that was the other side. Another man and his family traveled with us. His name was Chauncey Noble. A better, pleasanter and more agreeable man never lived, but his wife was just the opposite — always grumbling, fault-finding and wanting to go back. She never would camp out with the rest of us. Her husband always had to get a bed for her at some farmhouse along the way. How often it happens that good, kind men get vixens for wives, and amiable women get brutes for husbands. So it is, and always will be. What a pleasant trip it all was for us children. Nothing to worry us; that part of it was all left for our parents. Oh, why can't children appreciate the happy, careless life they have before coming to the years of responsibility! Trifling things make deep impression on children's minds. I remember today a sight I witnessed on our journey. After traveling all day, we camped just before sundown in a nice place, not far from a farm-house. When mother commenced to get supper, she gave me a little tin pail and told me to run across the way for some water. When I got to the well-curb, there was a man sitting close to it, and looking right at me. He had no eyelids, no nose nor lips. Well, it didn't take me long to get back to mother, without any water, either, but almost scared to death. If mother had not gone for the water herself, she never would have believed that I had good reason to be frightened. He certainly was an awful sight. Those staring eyes! Those grinning teeth! That noseless face! He haunted me for nights. Father afterwards learned that this poor man had had an accident, while making potash, that burned his flesh off. On the road to Nauvoo, we passed through Kirtland, and camped not far from the temple, and we were given permission to go through it. I well remember with what awe we entered it. My parents looked very serious, and spoke quite low and cautioned us children not to speak at all. The impression remains with me today. I don't remember what time we started on our journey West, but I do remember in the fall we came to a little place in Illinois called Walnut Grove. There were several "Mormon" families living there and they persuaded father to stop over a while, and thus get better prepared to go to Nauvoo. They told him he could get higher wages in Walnut Grove, for the times were very hard in Nauvoo, so mother very reluctantly consented to stop. From the time she joined the Church her whole mind and thoughts were to get to the body of the Church. The greatest recollection I have of the little place was the big watermelons, and the great amount of black walnuts that grew there. Riley and myself went one day with father and gathered up a heaping wagonload of them. We put them in the garret of the log house we then lived in, and feasted on them all that winter. The next move we made was to a little town called La Harpe, twenty-five miles from Nauvoo. There was a pork-packing house there, and quite a demand for barrels. As one of father's trades was that of cooper, he could get plenty of work there at fair wages. He was anxious to lay in a good stock of provisions before going to Nauvoo, as they were very scarce and high there. Mother would have gone right on without a loaf of bread, she was so anxious to be where she could see and hear the Prophet. I was about ten years old at that time, and can only remember what made an impression on me. My first great sorrow was then. Our next door neighbor had a little girl my own age; we were very intimate and quite inseparable. She was taken seriously sick and died very suddenly, and when I was told that Alice Carlisle was dead, I felt that there was nothing on earth for me to live for. I was inconsolable and refused to be comforted. Mother had to coax me to eat and sister Phebe offered me her doll and play things. Oh, I thought, how could I ever play again! But time, the great healer, did for me what it does for others, and I became reconciled to my loss. And then my sister Phebe wouldn't let me keep her doll after that, when I got so I could eat without being coaxed. I recall another incident which happened there. One day, I was looking out of the window and saw several people running, so, of course, I ran too. One of the largest buildings in town was on fire. The lower room was a store and the upper used as a school, while a little room in the back was occupied by a widow and her two little girls. As at all fires, there was great excitement — people throwing books and furniture out of the upper room, and dragging the goods out of the lower part. During this excitement, the widow who lived at the back came running and screaming out of the house. She said that her little two-year old girl was in there. They tore her clothes nearly all off her trying to keep her out of the burning building, in her frantic efforts to get her baby. After the fire had burned itself out and the walls had collapsed, the men and boys worked heroically to find the child. I was there when they took the little corpse out of the ruins. It was a gruesome sight — one half of it seemed to be parboiled, the other half burned to a crisp. In getting it out they had pulled both of its feet off. For months I could not get that sight out of my mind. What it must have been for a mother to see! It seems that the fire started in her room where her youngest child was sleeping on the bed. She had taken the other one with her to visit her sister and have a neighborly chat. She often went out, and left her children asleep alone. It was probable that some of the school children had gone into her room to get a drink, or something else, and that the draft had drawn the bed curtain into the fire place. The bed was standing quite near the fire place. The fire was discovered about two o'clock and she was almost the last one to hear the alarm. This poor woman was then Mrs. Eanis; her maiden name was Mary Steadwell. She was the girl who was shot through the hand by the mob in Missouri. When the bullet struck her she fell over a big log and the mob thought her dead and left her, but she lived to have this great trouble, and many more, for she married the second time very unhappily. At last, in the spring of 1841, we went to Nauvoo. How happy mother was! She was a devoted Latter-day Saint, and her one thought from the day she was baptized was to gather with the Church, and finally she was in their midst. Well, when we arrived there, Brother Noble, who had gone right through, found us and insisted on our family sharing part of his home until we could get a place of our own. He said his house was larger than they needed. Houses were very scarce, but mother had her misgivings, for she knew Mrs. Noble too well to believe they could live in peace together. But as "Necessity knows no law," my parents accepted his (Brother Noble's) kind offer, and things went along pleasantly for a little while, but the lady of the house soon began to show the cloven foot; she did not belong to the Church herself, and was as bitter as gall, and very quarrelsome. She never let an opportunity pass without saying something disagreeable about the Church, and especially about the Prophet. All the apostate lies she could hear she took great pleasure in making mother listen to; but mother had made up her mind that she would not quarrel with her. It was pretty hard to have to hear her sneers, insinuations and abuse continually. I remember once mother had me sit down and read the Book of Mormon. That was too much! She took a cup of water and dashed it over me and the book. Well, things went from bad to worse until mother could stand it no longer. In the meantime, father had bought a lot, so he got some lumber and built a shanty and mother was delighted to get out of a comfortable house with contention in it, into all the discomforts of a shanty, where, when the sun shone, it was hot, and when it rained, it was wet, yet where there was peace; mother never uttered one word of complaint. Not even that horrid woman could keep her from enjoying her religion. My parents were faithful attendants at the meetings in the grove to hear the Prophet Joseph preach, and I have seen and heard him many times. Strange as it may seem, in about a year, that good Brother Noble took his wife back to the state of New York, where they came from, and never returned to Nauvoo; although before he came he had sold out everything with the firm determination of spending the rest of his life with the Church, yet her everlasting fault-finding and complaining had the desired effect at last, and the old adage, "A continued dropping will wear a stone," was verified. Soon after we got to Nauvoo my brother Riley was taken with a white swelling on his knee. Poor boy, how he suffered! Mother used to be up with him night after night, working so hard trying to relieve his sufferings, but nothing seemed to do him any good, so she decided to have him baptized in the font. Before going she told him that the Lord could heal him, and he went with greatest confidence. When they got there mother lifted him out of the wagon and carried him to the font, where an Elder took him in his arms and carried him down into the water. He could not take a step or put his foot to the ground without the most excruciating pain, but after he had been baptized and was carried to the steps where mother was waiting to take him in her arms, he called out, "Oh, mother, I can walk," and sure enough, he walked right up the steps, and from that time he had no more pain in his knee. The swelling gradually went down, and he was soon running and jumping with his playmates as usual, and never had any more trouble with his leg. How little I could then appreciate mother's feeling at the miraculous healing, for there never lived a more tender and devoted mother. Mother was a natural born nurse, and well did she magnify that gift. There was a great deal of sickness in Nauvoo at that time. Often and often, she would go around among her sick neighbors, nursing and helping them, and more than that, she made me go with her. I was only a little girl, but I could give a drink of water to the poor people burning with fever, also wash dishes and do many other little chores. Not inheriting any of mother's gift as a nurse, it was a great hardship to me. How I did hate it! Wasn't it bad enough to wash dishes at home but have to go to the neighbors to wash up all theirs? When any of them got well, I was delighted, yet it was only because I knew that I would not have to go there any more. Oh, the selfishness of human nature, even in children! Father was working very hard at that time getting material to build us a house. He used to go to an island in the Mississippi river to get lumber. He would go Monday morning and stay until Saturday evening, getting out what was called shakes. Our house and many others were made of this material. It was an all summer's job getting out enough to build a little two-room house. I think our place was about a mile east of the grove — a nice location, on what was called the Bluffs. The Flats were down by the river. What a beautiful view there was from the Bluffs with the ever interesting sight of steamboats passing up and down the Mississippi; right on the Bluff was Joseph's home, the Mansion House, which was the center of attraction. (To be continued.) MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS. 263 LINES. By Grace Ingles Frost. The hills are ablush from the kiss of Aurora, Blithe feathered folk are caroling overhead, Bright crocus buds have broken from the prison That held them fast since last year's blossoms fled. A greening grass is carpeting the meadow, In wake of busy plow, the gull flies low. The laughing breeze is redolent with fragrance, Of flowers erstwhile blown beneath the snow. On every hand is wrought the springtime's magic, From teeming loam to every budding tree, Yet throbs no thrill responsive in my heart, love, Because you are not longer here to see. A VENERABLE MOTHER IN ISRAEL— FIVE GENERATIONS. Hulda A. Holmes, grand-daughter; Ella Rohlhapp, daughter; Donnett Rheess, great-grand-daughter. Front row: Minerva Wade Hickman, 98 years old; Baby Iris Rheess, great-great-grand-daughter.