			A VISIT TO TEXAS.

	I left S. L. City, in company with the
missionaries who were going East, on
the 9th of Nov., 1875, to visit my relatives
in Texas, and had a very pleasant and in-
teresting time. On the Union Pacific R. R.
we met with a number of strangers who
manifested an interest in our people, and
wished to know concerning our doctrine &c.
They had stayed over Sunday in Salt Lake,
and had heard Orson Pratt preach and were
surprised to find the city so orderly and
quiet, spoke of the saloons being closed, re-
marked how unfavorably we had been rep-
resented abroad.
	I was surprised to find books distributed
on these cars containing misrepresentations
against the Mormons. I thought the U.
P. R. R. was too well patronized by the
Mormons to allow such insults to them; I did
not feel like being insulted by the distribution
of such literature, (especially as there was
no deduction made in the fare for a lady
missionary,) nevertheless it opened a field
for the missionaries, so that what was design-
ed for evil resulted in good.
	On our arrival at Omaha we parted with
the Elders who were going East and board-
ed the southern train by way of Council
Bluffs, St. Joseph, and Kansas cities for Dal-
las, Texas, which is near my mother's resi-
dence, arrived at the "Old Folks at Home,"
the seventh day after leaving here. To say
we had a joyful meeting and all talked at
once, will not begin to express the scene
that prevailed. My brother Thomas said it
reminded him of the resurrection, that
twenty years absence had not broken the
kindred ties; I answered, if you believe the
Gospel they have grown ten-fold stronger.
He replied he had not lost the testimony
he[-]eceived twenty years before, but was
anxious to forward the work and assist the
Elders; there were appointments made and
the work of preaching the everlasting Gos-
ple re-commenced in that lovely land of
Texas, for indeed it is a beautiful country,
and I felt constrained to prophesy that
there would yet be a Temple built in that
land and the Saints would possess it; the
good seed sown there by the Elders twenty
years ago has not all died out, and by dili-
gent care and cultivation it will yet take
root and grow. The meetings were well
attended, eight persons were baptized into
the church and others renewed their cov-
enants by baptism, and many were inter-
osted, believing and inquiring. I never

[Column 2]
felt better and stronger in my life than I
did when defending the character of this
people and the principles of our belief. I
attended all the meetings held by our Eld-
ers in Bosque County, Texas, and whenever
it was known that I was present, I was al-
ways requested by some of the audience to
speak and tell what I knew, and what had
induced me to live among such a despised
people. I never refused to respond and
there was a power with me whenever I
raised my voice to testify to the truth of
the Latter-day work. I was told in a bless-
ing given me by one of the Twelve Apos-
tles, that those who heard my testimony
should be pierced to the heart, and this
prophecy was literally fulfilled. Several
noted gentlemen remarked to my brother
that they never heard a more convincing
testimony, and that he should feel proud of
a sister who in face of opposition, and the
unpopularity of the doctrine in which she
believed, could thus stand up and defend it.
A gentleman said to me, Paul said it
was a shame for a woman to speak in
public." I replied, Paul also said, Priscil-
la and Aquilla labored with him in the
Gospel, and that Paul was not writing to
me, that my religion was between me and
my Father in heaven, that I had covenant-
ed with Him that if He would give me a
testimony of the truth I would be a faith-
ful witness to Him. He had fulfilled His
promise and now it remained for me to be
true to my covenant with Him. On one
occasion I was requested by a Universalian
minister to speak to the people on the sub-
ject of polygamy; this reverend gentleman
invited our Elders to preach to his congre-
gation, thinking to lay a snare for them as
was afterwards proven, but he was caught
in his own trap, for there was an editor
present who reported the discourses of
Elders' East and Greer, and published
them, which opened the way for Mr. East
to get an article published in the Bosque
Co. Herald, in which he invited the said
Rev. gentleman to prove the assertions he
had made by the Bible. At this meeting
there was the largest audience that had
ever been present, and I was called on to
speak at the close of the meeting; I told
them it reminded me of the Apostle Paul
when he made his defense before King
Agrippa, Paul had seen the power of God
made manifest (so had we) he had seen a
vision and testified of Jesus of Nazareth,
and the resurrection of the dead, (so do
we testify of that same Jesus, the gift of
the Holy Ghost bearing witness &c., and
we warn you to repent and fear God for the
hour of His judgment has come, and the
day is nigh at hand when this beautiful
land of yours will be laid waste by another
desolating war, and you will feel the chast-
ening hand of God and acknowledge Him
perchance when it is too late to gather out.
We contrasted the practises of the mono-
gamic cities of the world, where beautiful
women were led astray and excluded from
society, disowned by parents and kindred,
left to die without husband or child to
mourn for them, their names dishonored
and cast out as evil forever; compared this
with the Patriarchal order of marriage
where women are honorable wives and
mothers, the children considered an herit-
age from the Lord. You who so despise Po-
lygamy which of the two do you think the
Lord will own and bless?
	There are among the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, we are proud to say, those
who are self-sacrificing like holy women of
old, and as Josephine the first wife of Napo-
leon, who would make a sacrifice for the
the benefit of a nation, or the elevation of a

[Column 3]
people, rather than to gratify their own sel-
fish feelings and desires. To be self-sacrific-
ing is elevating and exalting, it was through
this principle that Abraham proved him-
self to be the friend of God.
	After bearing a faithful testimony, we bid
farewell to Texas and our kindred; Yes,
Fare well, "In the sweet by and by we may
meet on that beautiful shore."
	On the 25th of April, 1876, we started
for home, "Sweet Home," arrived in S. L.
City the 2d day of May, feeling we had
not labored in vain.
