			HOME AFFAIRS:

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of an elegant
bouquet of flowers from Mrs. Toms, we appre-
ciate these delightful and pleasant reminders
of the perfection of the works of God, and we
are grateful to the lady for her kind remem-
brance. The flowers were delicate and choice
ones, and the trailing vines, ferns and fancy
grasses gave an additional charm to their va-
riety and beauty.
	WE HAVE had several pleasant calls within
the past week from strangers, people of refine-
ment and culture. Almost invariably, they
express themselves pleased with the locality
and general appearance of the city, the moun-
tain scenery etc. Capt. Havelock, Mrs. Have-
lock, and Mrs. Rattray, English people, called
on Monday, Aug. 7th, and spent an hour [--]
two in a cheerful social way. They had been
under the impression that this people discour-
aged education, advancement, or progression
in any but industrial employments.
	THE BENEFIT tendered Mrs. Susie Maiden,
at the Theatre on Saturday evening, Aug. 5th,
was not so largely attended as the occasion de-
served. The selection of the programme for
the entertainment presented a most attrac-
tive bill, and those who profess so much ad-
miration for the drama ought to offer some in-
ducement and encouragement to HOME TAL-
ENT. Mrs. Marden as Peach Blossom was a
decided success, and merited the applause ac-
corded her, and the congratulation of her
friends for her exertions to please the public.
Several other parts were extremely well ren-
dered, particularly those performed by Miss
Colebrook and Miss Decker.
	Mrs. Louisa Pratt of Beaver, in this Terri-
tory has written her Autobiography which
she purposes publishing the present year.
The writer is in her 74th year, she has
kept a journal almost all her life, and has pre-
served a record of the most important events.
She has a prospectus printed and distributed
among her friends; in this she refers to some
of the main incidents of her history, of her
journey by land from the Atlantic to the Pa-
cific, before the days of cars and steam, of her
sojourn on the South Pacific Islands, where

[Column 2]
she resided for some time with her husband
and family, including four daughters, living
in friendship with the natives, a teacher to
their children &c., of her many trials shared
with the saints, in their persecutions wander-
ings and drivings. She closes the prospectus
by saying the work shall have one merit, it
will be STRICTLY TRUE.
	MRS. A. J. DUNIWAY, one of the most ear-
nest and indefatigable workers in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage etc., delivered two lectures
during her recent stay in this city. The first
was designed particularly to benefit her sex,
and enlighten them on some particular essen-
tial points of which many women seem en-
tirely ignorant and unconcerned. It was en-
titled, "Personal Experiences which led to my
Mission." Mrs. Duniway is extremely practi-
cal and matter-of-fact in all her views, argu-
ments and reasonings. She lectured without
notes or references of any description, and
never hesitated for a word, or seemed in the
least embarrassed. Her second lecture was
upon railroads etc., and she evidently under-
stood her subject in all its multifarious bear-
ings. Her description of the North-western
part of the United States, Oregon and Wash-
ington was extremely interesting. She enu-
merated the many advantages which would
accrue to benefit the country at large if this
grand and wealthy region could be connected
by railway with San Francisco and the East,
making Salt Lake the central point. The tim-
bers, the coal mines, the fisheries which are so
abundant there, these were all descanted
upon in her most glowing descriptive terms.
	MONDAY MORNING Aug. 7th, the Normal
Institute opened its annual session for eleven
days, it is under the management of Dr. J. R.
Park. There was a full attendance. Most of
the teachers are residents of Salt Lake County,
Weber and Utah Counties are next best repre-
sented. The exercises so far have been very
interesting and highly instructive, and must
confer material benefit on those who are atten-
tively and assiduously applying themselves to
the department of teaching or the acquire-
ment of knowledge. Prof. Maeser's lectures
on history and natural science are remarkably
solid and well worthy contemplation. The in-
structions in geography by Mr. Charles
Wright, are very good, and the illustrations
are clear and practical. Prof. M. H. Hardie
on the subject of reading expresses his views
and ideas in such a manner as to awaken much
interest in this important subject; it is the
prevailing idea of most persons that to be able
to pronounce all the hard words and observe
the pauses and punctuation marks, constitutes
a good reader. Perfect reading, like music,
must be harmonious or it grates upon the
finer senses like a song badly sung, or an in-
strument out of tune. Mr. G. M. Ottinger's
illustrations of drawing are happily rendered
and calculated to make impressions favorable
to that useful and beautiful art.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair
still continues attractive to visitors. Several
additions in woman's work have been brought
since the first opening; among these, one which
deserves mentioning is a Scripture pic[-]ure in
needle-work, by Mrs. M. E. A. Wat[--]ough,
representing the child Samuel when he comes
to Eli, having heard the voice of the Lord
calling him. The scene is well represented,
and very natural for the kind of work, which
of course is not equal to a painting in likeness
to life. The tambour needle-work by Mrs.
Wm. Matthews is something exquisite in
beauty and rarity. The silk work, laces, veils,
fichu, and handkerchiefs; all entirely of home


production are the most wonderful. We have
heard several strangers remark upon their ex-
cellence, and were indeed surprised that the
energy and perseverance of the sisters had ac-
complished such beautiful and meritorious re-
sults. If those engaged in the manufacture of
silk are only as patient as the coral insects who
possess only instinct to prompt them to labor,
and from the smallest beginnings form im-
mense reefs; then indeed may we look for won-
derful results. We advise everybody to go
to the Fair, you will certainly find many
things to admire, and in no other way, can you
in so short a time, judge of the energy the
taste and skill of the women of Utah. Miss
F. R. Snow and the ladies engaged there
spare no pains to make it interesting and at-
tractive.
	THE SILK ASSOCIATION met Aug. 1st. at the
Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
Mrs. Young cautioned those sending cocoons
to the society to be sure they were properly
dried, and floss them carefully. The cocoons
should not be moved off the rack or brush for
eight days, then they should be placed where
the sun would shine on them at least a week:
save the very best and finest cocoons to raise
seed from, and each one should raise more seed
than needed for his or her own use. What
was most needed now was the planting out of
mulberry trees; this branch of industry should
receive due attention and encouragement.
Mr. Paul A. Schettler said he felt sure the
raising and manufacture of silk here could be
made a success, and he was glad to see the
progress already made. Mrs. Dunyon gave
her experience in planting out mulberry cut-
tings, she advised sandy soil and to shade
them from the sun, at first to water them well
and for the first and second winter to lay
some straw over them. Mr. Groves said he
had good luck in raising silk worms and had a
fine grove of trees, the difficulty with him be-
ing he had not room enough. Miss E. R.
Snow said that to make a successful industry
of silk raising would require a vast amount of
perseverance and patience, and it could not be
accomplished without a united effort of the
people. She remembered hearing the Prophet
Joseph say the time would come when the peo-
ple of the world would come to Zion to buy
the finest of fabrics, said strangers had spoken
very highly of the samples of silk in the La-
dies' Fair. In Brigham City they thought of
making the raising of silk one branch of their
home industry another year. Mr. Smith, Mrs.
E. S. Barney, Mrs. E. Shipp, Mrs. M. A. White
and Mrs. Smith each gave a little of their ex-
perience in this industry and the result. The
next meeting of this association will be held
to-day, Aug 15th, at three o'clock at the same
place, such arrangements will then be made
as will be necessary for the advancement of
the society and a permanent organization ef-
fected.


