[COLUMN 2]

practice the instructions that are given to
them. We have a kind, motherly, kind-
hearted sister for President, (Margaret
Matthews) who is always on hand to render
all the assistance she can, both temporal
and spiritual; to wait upon the sick, and
comfort those that mourn; this can be said
of all its members, for we desire to be one
with all our sisters in the labor of love; to
be useful in our day. We need not think
that we have nothing to do, it is not so; it
is true our brethren are called to go on mis-
sions to the nations of the earth to preach
the gospel, and to bring the Saints to Zion,
and we are permitted to remain at home to
take care of our families and to receive the
Saints that may come into our midst, to
teach and instruct them in the duties of
life. We see the necessity to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE; we have quite a
number of young ladies learning to braid
straw. They have been quite busy during
the past season making hats and straw
trimmings, which is leading in the right
direction, for we sisters in the country are
obliged to use economy, for we are not like
our sisters in the large cities whose hus-
bands are merchants or clerks, etc., that
receive very large salaries, from $150 to
$300 per month, and mechanics that receive
from four to five dollars a day, whereas our
husbands that follow farming raise a little
wheat, potatoes, &c. &c., and if we did not
use economy we should never be able to
sustain our families. But you may say—
when we visit our sisters in the country
it seems by all appearances that they are
getting rich and able to build comfortable
houses to live in, and make other improv-
ments, while we in the cities (with all the
large salaries) can hardly live. Let us for
a moment look into this, and compare notes.
In the first place, who are these that go to
the theatre with their families, that go to
the grand balls in the winter season, that
dress up in the highest style, some of whom
pay from fifteen to twenty dollars to have a
dress made up for their wives and daugh-
ters? Who are they that send their sons
and daughters abroad to be educated? Do
they belong to the Saints that live in the
rural districts of this Territory? Oh no.
They belong to those persons who are in
prosperous business, or receive large sal-
aries. Is it true when they say they hard-
ly know how to live? Yes. They live so
extravagantly they are not able to pay their
tithing and their offerings to the Lord that
are required of them as Saints. When I
reflect upon the circumstances we are in as
Saints, surrounded with the blessings of
the Lord, and we make such foolish and
wicked use of them, and how ungrateful
we are for them, it seems strange that the
Lord is so good to us; how merciful He is
that He does not permit our enemies to
come upon us and drive us from our homes,
(which has been done frequently) how much
longer will the Lord bear with us as a peo-
ple? We are certainly as a people follow-
ing after the foolish fashions of Babylon.
	Our Society receives good advice and as-
sistance from our worthy Bishop, who is al-
ways ready to encourage us in our labors.
Our means are limited, but the sisters do-
nate all that is required to sustain the poor,
helping towards the missionaries and the
temple. We have shares in the Co-op. store
and have a first class knitting machine, with
which we intend to do all the knitting in
the place. The sisters made a quilt for the
Centennial, now we have sent it to the Fair
in Salt Lake City.
	At a recent meeting of the brethren some
expressed a desire that we should celebrate
the 24th of July. The Bishop proposed that


the sisters of the Relief society, assisted;
so the sisters met together and got up a
Programme, which was composed of speech-
es, songs and toasts; a sumptuous dinner
was given; about 300 persons including
children sat down; and in the evening a
dance, which finished the proceedings of the
day. All went off pleasantly, joy and glad-
ness beamed upon every countenance.
throughout the day. There were quite a
number of emigrants just arrived, and they
were cordially invited, with strangers from
other settlements. Among the speeches of
our brethren there were two missionaries
who had just returned from Switzerland
who spoke. They remarked they had just
returned from a mission and looked upon
their brethren and sisters in Zion, and com-
pared them, and their circumstances with
the condition of the Saints, there it was a
vast contrast; the Saints here could enjoy
life and be happy and comfortable, there
was nothing here to prevent them from
living their religion, but in the world it was
different; the Saints are poor and have to
work hard from morning till night, and get
hardly anything; and if those that are all
the time complaining and finding fault with
everybody and everything could be taken
back there it would do them good.
	The EXPONENT is very much appreciated
by those that take it here, and if more
would subscribe for it, it would be a great
benefit to them, because it contains articles
that are calculated in themselves to cause
us to reflect and meditate upon our conditions
as sisters and as mothers in Zion. There is
many an article that brings joy and peace to
those that read it, and I consider for myself
that it is one of the very best papers that
we sisters can subscribe for, it is very good
to have other papers in our houses (I mean
those that are good, or are edited by our
brethren) but for me, in my leisure moments
of reflection, give me the EXPONENT; there
I can find something to peruse suited to my
condition; some sister's letter wherein she
gives her experience of life in this church,
or her testimony on some certain principle,
which give new impulses to do good.
	Hoping that you will receive encourage-
ment in your labors in editing a paper so
useful among the Latter-day Saints,
				I remain Your Sister, &c.
