EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write for the
EXPONENT and I do not expect to give any
one instruction or counsel, but I feel it
my duty to contribute my mite with the
rest of my sisters, and I know that if we
strive to do right and ask our Heavenly
Father to bless and aid us in our endeav-
ors to do good He will do so. I do not
have the same chance to improve my mind
and feast my soul that some of my sisters
have who live in the midst of the Saints,
and do not have the outside influences to
contend with that those living out here do.
But we can learn to do right and not follow
after the ways of the outside world. We
have a Sunday School, and it is in a pros-
perous condition. We have no young la-
dies association, because there are but very
few families and they are living quite a
distance apart. Swearing and drinking is
getting to be quite a habit with some of the
young people in this vicinity, most people
know that it is wrong and should refrain
from it. I am very glad to hear that round
dancing is being put down among our
young people. Boys and girls refrain from
using bad language, refined people do not
like to associate with young ladies who
use slang phrases, and young men who will
swear, they feel ashamed to be seen in their
company, they are shuned, and respected
by none. If we are acquainted with any of
this type, let us talk kindly to them, show
them how wrong it is, and try to persuade
them to better regulate their conversation
and their actions.
	We should honor and obey our parents
and teachers, and do our best to keep the
commandments of God in every particular.
How well we feel when we know that we
have done right, and how miserable when
conscious of having done wrong. There
are many young men and boys who think
it is a credit to them to smoke, but on the
contrary, it is a disgrace; it is a very bad
habit and the Latter-day Saints are counsel-
ed to refrain from it. "Do what is right,
let the consequence follow," when we do
this we are often ridiculed by our compan-
ions, but if the spirit of God is in our
hearts, and we know we are pleasing Him,
we do not care for their taunts and sneers.
Let us shun all evil companions, and seek
the company of those who can improve us.
I am not in the habit of giving counsel, but
I feel it my duty to speak about these bad
habits having noticed many of the evils
which arise from them. We should strive
to improve our minds and seek continually
to do our duty.
	We all have faults, some more than oth-
ers, but by constant prayerand watch-guard
over our actions, we will in time overcome
them. We must love all mankind, and
keep the GOLDEN RULE if we ever expect
to have a crown in the kingdom of Him
who is Omnipotent. We should pray con-
stantly to Him who keeps us from day to-
day. May God bless us all and preserve us
from evil, is my prayer in the name of Je-
sus.
	I remain your Sister, &c.
						J. A. MAXWELL.
	Little Spring Valley, Nev.


THE following advertisement lately ap-
peared in a Liverpool paper:—"Wanted, by
a young man of refined musical tastes, a
position as son-in-law in a quiet, well-to-do
family. Address ——."


