				VISITING.

	There are three essentials which must be
understood and acted on before visits and
visiting will ever fulfill the idea of the
pleasure they ought to be and to give.
First, nothing must be done for parade or
show. No matter how rich a man may
be, if he sets on his dinner table one thing,
either to be eaten or looked at simply for
show, it is a challenge and offense. Of
course, nobody is so absurd as to maintain
that the rich must make dinners of herbs
because the poor cannot afford stalled oxen.
A very feast of good things, both for the
eye and the palate, can be set out without
any attempt at, or suggestion of mere par-
ade, mere display. There are plenty of
ways in which a man may advertise his
wealth if he likes, without doing it in his
hospitality. To do it there, or even seem
to do it there, is the very essence of vul-
garity, and real inhospitality. To avoid by
every possible device and by the utmost
tact, the bare suggestion that the guest is
the recipient of and not conferrer of favors,
is the first principle of entertainment. To
ask a man to your house and treat him as if
he were inspector of wines or tax gatherer

[Column 2]
on silver, is a piece of very coarse stupid-
ity; and to make a very great difference
between the way you live when you are
alone and the way you live when you have
friends under your roof, is surely a very di-
rect way of injuring one's self-respect, of
casting an unpleasant reflection on one's
own personal standard of taste.
	The second essential of the ideal visit
and visiting is, that the host not the guest,
set the limit of the visit. There is so false
a notion in this country on this point that
it almost seems as if it must spring out of
a national lack of directness and sincerity.
Everybody knows when he asks a friend to
his house, how long he wants him to stay.
There may be fifty reasons combining to
make him very glad of a visit three days
long, and very much inconvenienced by
one longer. Honest people ought to find no
difficulty in saying this and honest people
take no offense at hearing it. This does
away with all possibility of misconstruc-
tion on either side, with all uncertainties
as to welcome, with all fears of intrusion.
	A third essential of ideal visits and visit-
ing is that there be on the part of the host
no strained effort to entertain or amuse the
guest, on the part of the guest, no expecta-
tion to be amused or entertained. Simply
to meet for the interchange of good will
and cordiality, the usual current of life go-
ing on undisturbed, the habits of the fami-
ly remaining unchanged—that is the true
social visit. The man who knows how to
"drop in" of an evening draw his chair up
to your hearth as if it were his own, and
fall into the usual evening routine of the
household as if he were a member of it—
how welcome he always is! The man who
comes to stay under your roof for a season,
and who without being intrusive or famil-
iar, makes you feel that he is at "home"
with you, and is content in his usual fash-
ion of occupation—how delightful a guest
he is! And the houses—ah, how few of
them!—into which one can go for a day or a
week, and feel sure that the family rou-
tine is in no wise altered, the family com-
fort in no wise lessened, but on the contra-
ry increased by his presence—what joy it is
to cross their threshold! What good har-
bors of refuge they are to weary wanderers!
	When the world mends its ways in these
regards, when these essentials are fulfilled,
the lost art of conversation will revive;
hospitality will be worthy of its name; and
householding and housekeeping become, as
they ought to be, the greatest pleasure a
man can have.—H. H. in the Independant.


