		GENERAL.
	The Emperor of Brazil's hotel expenses
in this country are said to have been nearly
$40,000......Charles Campbell, the Vir-
gina historian, died a few days ago in the
insane asylum at Staunton......Vanderbilt
is very likely to recover......Miss Allison,
the engineer of machinery, in the Wo-
man's Pavillion at the Centennial is report-
ed very ill......Miss Martineau, recently de-
ceased, left an injunction in her will
against the publication of her private let-
ters......Clara Bauer, a German novel-writ-
er, died lately in Breslau; she was familiar
with Russian society, and her last work "A
Document," was a portrayal of the best
Russian society......New port, Vermont, on
the 4th of July, had music by a drum corps,
each member of which was over ninety
years of age. America has two thousand
actors, all trying to become renowned......
Bryant is said to be the richest as well as
the oldest poet now living.....Over three
millions of visitors have reviewed the cu-
riosities at the Centennial Exposition...... I
Capt. Gildersleeve will command the Amer-
ican rifle team in the Centennial matches.
		FOREIGN.
	Abdul Aziz's private jewelry, valued at
six million Turkish lbs., has been seized
and handed to the Finance Department for
sale.........Don Carlos is tall, handsome,
swarthy of complexion, dark hair, dark
moustache, and small imperial......Victor
Hugo is worth half a million of dollars and
is said to be as egotistical as he is rich......
Mrs. Swishelm writes that in Germany it is
the rule for gentlemen to bow first in the
matter of recognition......News from the
seat of war in the East is of a very confiict-
ing character, each side claiming victories.
All the powers except Russian have de-
clared Roumania's demands unreasonable
.......A Berlin mechanic has invented a
steam velocipede, the engine is heated with
petroleum, and placed on the back wheels
does not interfere with the driver.


ALEXANDRE Dumas, who had some rea-
son to complain of his plays being left on
the shelf, sat down one evening and wrote
an article in his newspaper against the
Theatre Francais. An ill-natured person
carried the news, the manager immediate-
ly altered his play bills. The next morning
people after reading the attack of the great
author on the Theatre Francais, turned to
see what the house was performing, they
read—"This evening 'Les Demoiselles de
St. Cyr,' by Alexandre Dumas, to be fol-
lowed by 'Le Mari de la Veuve,' by Alex-
andre Dumas. To-morrow evening, 'Made-
moiselle de Belle Isle,' by Alexandre Du-
mas, to be followed by 'Romulus,' by Alex-
andre Dumas."


