				LOWELL, MASS.
						July 27, 1876
MY DEAR AUNT:
				The scenes I have had the
pleasure of witnessing and the people I have
seen, if aptly described, would perhaps in-
terest you and the other friends at home,
but I am not very good at descriptive letter
writing, and will leave you to the papers for
the Exhibition and the notables who attend
it. There are some things that don't often
get into the papers that interest me more,
and I love to write to you about, for your
appreciation of the work that absorbs the
attention and is the delight of missionaries
makes it a pleasure to write you. Of course
I have not done much preaching while trav-
eling from one great city to another, but oc-
casionally I have had opportunity to advo-
cate our doctrines to some of the people who
travel by my side in the cars, whom I meet
in the boarding houses and hotels, in the
art galleries and museums, viewing monu-
ments and parks, and in the various associ-
ations that are formed by travellers.
	Since I came to New England I have
been devoted to a few poor, humble British
Saints,' who, crowded in the back streets of
the manufacturing towns are trying to live
in their old English style at American
prices, and are consequently, with good
wages, getting in debt, and getting farther
from Zion than they were before they left
their Albion shores. Still a spark of that
fire, that fills the soul with light and the
hearts of the people with love, is found
glimmering in their breasts, and when you

[Column 2]
speak to them encouragingly, it revives,
and glows and sparkles in their eyes like
burning coals. But when we go away it
smoulders again, and the ashes of discontent
envelop and almost smother it out. Again
and again has this fanning and cooling pro-
cess been experienced by them, and will
continue I suppose until the last. I wish the
Saints in the world could have a foretaste
of the experience that is necessary for them
to pass through when they are gathered.
I think it would be easier for them to com-
prehend the reality of their religion more
than they do at the present. The Lord has
queer material with which to work, but I
suppose it is the best He can get. Only the
poor and lowly have time to entertain the
homely truths of the old fashioned gospel of
Jesus. It is enough for the rich and learn-
ed to meditate upon the glittering bubble,
conjured up in the minds of enthusiasts, and
surmounted by the golden cross and brazen
image, which the truth-denying, self-loving,
prophet-denying, mis-called Christian priests
present to them as the gospel of peace,
and effigy of salvation.
	The Lord's economy in taking the very
lowliest of all people with which to perform
His work, is of course the best, for if they
were not already humble, He would have
to bring them down; and often material is
worn out before a vessel of either beauty or
utility can be formed of it, for the reason
that there is so much of the brittle, refuse
matter mixed with it, that the process of
expunging it wastes away the rest.
	I think that the Centennial year of our
nation's independence presents to the
Saints a condition of society throughout
the world, peculiarly interesting, in view
of the pointed, prophecies of which it is the
realization and fulfilment. The civilized
nations, particularly our own FREE country,
and the savages of our country, are des-
cribed better than most writers of the pres-
ent can describe them, and yet the scene we
witness was foretold over a thousand
years ago. There is no more satisfactory
nor interesting reading than the prophets
of the East and West, particularly the lat-
ter. The changes that are to transpire in
the immediate future, we see from these
writings before their actual advent, and are
prepared for them; and with assurance of
safety for ourselves, we take out our pencils
and books and proceed to chronicle the ful-
fillment of inspired words of other ages. I
think those who are interested, will find
matter in this Centennial year to occupy
their leisure moments in narrating for the
benefit of future generations.
	Excuse so long and rambling a letter.
	Give my love to all the folks.
	May the Lord bless you and guide you in
all your labors by the inspiration of His
Spirit, is my desire.


