NOTES AND NEWS.

	EASTERN papers announce the death of
Sydney Rigdon at Friendship, Alleghany
County, New York, July 14. He was born
in Alleghany County, Pennsylvania, in
1793, and was about 83 years of age at his
death. Sydney Rigdon's name is familiar
with the people called Latter-day Saints; in
connection with the early history of the
church. It is said that he was unwavering
in his testimony concerning the truth of the
Book of Mormon.
	THE FIRST railroad in China has been
opened for traffic. The line is only five
miles long, connecting Shanghai and Kan-
gwan; it is intended to extend it to Woo-
sung, five miles farther. It is built on the
narrow guage system with British capital.
This opens a new field for American enter-
prise in China, undoubtedly they will soon
establish a vast railroad system.
	THE FORTY Fourth Congress has pro-
tracted its session very considerably owing
probably to the great variety of questions
before the house and the many wide differ-
ences of opinion upon them. It seems to
have been particularly hard work during
this session to come to any satisfactory de-
cision, and where haste or dispatch are used
at the close of a session in disposing of vexed
questions ruinous consequences are usually
the result.
	AT THE Universal Peace Convention, (an
international gathering) held in Philadel-
phia early in this present month, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted as pro-
posed by Julia Ward Howe.
	"Resolved, That this Convention do not
regard the late unhappy massacre of U. S.
troops under General Custer as requiring or
justifying any departure from the pacific
policy inaugurated by the President of the
United States. They believe this event, on
the contrary, to have been the result of an
attempt on the part of our troops to occupy
by force a territory formerly ceded to the
Indians and already long occupied by them;
and they would respectfully request the
Government to either complete the purchase
of the disputed Territory or secure to the
Indians its peaceable possession.
	"Resolved, That the friends of peace
should spare no pains to contribute to the
civilization of the Indian tribes on our
frontiers and elsewhere, that schools and
missions should be largely established
among them, and that their children should
be so trained and educated as [-]o become fit-
ted to participate in the rights and duties of 
American citizenship.
	"Resolved, That every effort should be
made by the Government of the United
States and the friends of peace in America,
to induce the Indian tribes devoted to hunt-
ing to support themselves by agriculture,
and to study the arts and appliances of civ-
ilized life, since the tendency of their pres-
ent mode of life is to excite their passions
which lead to deeds of cruelty, while the
tendency of agricultural pursuits is peace-
ful and humanizing.—EX.


