			STANDING.

	Dr. Arnold said, thirty years ago: "It is
in vain to say that questions of religion
and politics are above the understanding of
the poorer classes: they are not above their
mis-understanding." This is the irrestible
fact in regard to women and politics; and
every advance in education increases the
weight of the fact. At the beginning of a
Presidential campaign, this consideration
presses more and more upon us. Every
man wishes, or professes to wish that the
whole community should be enlightened as
to measures and men. Woman as a power-
ful factor in this process, will be every-
where conciliated. But if you conciliate
them, why not enlighten them? And of
all modes of enlightenment, the best is
that which is to be found to lie in some ac-
tual participation in the pursuit.
	This is recognized, in some degree by the
most conservative. The study of Political
Economy is introduced into High Schools
and Academies for both sexes. The most
conservative authorities recommend that
"Nordhoff's Politics for young Americans"

[Column 2]
should be widely circulated among ingen-
ious youth. Mr. Wells writes: "Robinson
Cruesoe's Money" that all may read. Why
is all this, if not that the understanding of
the whole people may be reached, and their
misunderstanding corrected? And since
women will have opinions and will influ-
ence votes, why not include them in the
general instruction? If we look in the
newspapers, what questions do we find
most pressing? The Chinese question, the
Indian war, the Hamburg massacre. All
these questions are daily discussed at a hun-
dred thousand breakfast tables, and in most
of these discussions women take their part.
What they say may have much or little ar-
gumentative value, but its representative
value is enormous. If it does not exhibit
common sense it exhibits at least the com-
mon nonsense—a thing which is, as Helps
has pointed out, almost equally important
to know.
	And each of these questions, moreover,
will be taken up and followed out, by clear
heads among both sexes, to its ultimate
principles. The principles of civilization
itself,—the rights of different races and re-
ligions under our government—the bind-
ing force of treaties—the principle of State
rights as against centralized power, are all
involved in them. Nay, a few short steps
take one back to the theory of the Federal-
ist, that the few wise and good should gov-
ern the many—or the other theory involved
in Jefferson's pithy question. "It is said
that man cannot be trusted to govern him-
self; can he then be trusted to govern an-
other? And between these two there is a
great gulf fixed, of inheritance, temperance
and habit; and if man cannot yet bridge
this chasm how can woman?"
	That women are to vary among them-
selves, almost as much as men, in opinions
on public matters is plain from the divided
fears, of those who oppose their enfran-
chisement; orthordox Christians for in-
stance, opposing it lest women should prove
too radical; and free thinkers, lest they
should prove too conservative. But wo-
men have opinions on all these matters as
it is; they are radical or conservative, as it
is. What we claim is that just in propor-
tion as they have a recognized position,
they differ, as it is. What we claim is that
just in proportion as they have a recognized
position, they will be trained for that posi-
tion, and by educating their understand-
ing we shall best get rid of their misunder-
standing.—A. W. H.—Ex.


