[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 626 | General Feature | Homemaking— Church Standards in Dress | ]
HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 2—Church Standards in Dress Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that one can be attractively dressed and still maintain Church standards of modesty. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith believed that if members of the Church were taught correct principles, they would govern themselves accordingly. All faithful Latter-day Saint women should be aware of "'correct principles" when it comes to selecting and wearing their clothes. We might well ask ourselves how we would dress for a social function if we knew that a prophet of the Lord would be present. 626 WHAT ARE CHURCH STANDARDS OF DRESS? There are those who would like Church standards of dress spelled out in detail for them. But is it not sufficient to quote what our prophets have told us and then be guided by their counsel? Brigham Young spoke to the members of the Church about their clothes, saying, The daughters of Israel should understand what fashions they should have, without borrowing from the impure and unrighteous.... Have your dresses neat and comely, and conduct yourselves, in the strictest sense of the word, in chastity. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 214-16.) The Lord spoke to his people in Joseph Smith's day concerning — their dress as follows: And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands; And let all things be done in cleanliness before me. (D&C 42:40-41.) Here we are given three timeless standards: simplicity, creativity, and cleanliness. We are not expected to make everything we wear, although the Relief Society sewing courses have enabled many women to achieve the satisfaction of creating their own apparel and enjoying "the beauty of the work of thine own hands." But the basic standards are still applicable. The Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet Brigham Young, and our present day prophets have all emphasized that the key to proper dress is modesty, which is defined by one dictionary as "Freedom from _ showiness_ or ostentation. Propriety or decorum in dress." (Funk & Wagnalls Standard College Dictionary, [New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1966].) Any clothing that is designed to provoke in_ the beholder unwholesome thoughts of envy, lust, or derision (as with freakish or far-out clothes) is clearly unsuitable for Latterday Saints. Our apparel should be clean, attractive in a wholesome way, and in good taste according to the best current standards. Lesson Department SELECTING OUR CLOTHES Clothes speak a very special language. They tell the world whether you are slovenly or careful, modest or immodest, whether you have self-respect or are inconsiderate. Clothes reflect our personality—whether we are quiet, outgoing, reserved, fragile, athletic. Our selection of clothes reflects our personal standards of behavior. Discussion Questions 1. When we choose our clothes, do we remember who we are? 2. Do we realize we are setting an example for our young people? 3. Do we appreciate ourselves, not in an egotistical way, but in a wholesome, constructive way, recognizing our own worth and assuring our proper place in the world? BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR CHOOSING CLOTHES In choosing our clothes, it is well to keep these principles in mind: 1. Fit and Comfort. Do not buy any garment which is too tight or otherwise ill-fitting. If a garment does not feel right for you, don't wear it. You will not look well if you cannot sit, stand, and move freely without embarrassment, no matter how stylish your costume is. 2. Suitability. At all times wear clothing suitable to your age, your size, the occasion, and the weather. 3. Modesty. In_ clothes selection, as in all aspects of life, you must remember to be an example of modesty. You should never be a slave to the fashion of the day, but lke a wise woman, know how to adapt what is currently in style to conform to Latter-day Saint standards. If these three points are kept in mind, you will always look and feel well dressed. 

627 August 1970

 Discussion Questions 1. Who decides the fashion of the day? 2. Do we permit the fashion of the moment to have more influence over us than the standards of dress approved by our leaders? CONCLUSION You are well dressed when your clothes are suitable to your age, the occasion, your position in life, your particular personality, figure, and personal coloring, but most' of all to the standards of modesty set forth by the prophets. If you are truly well dressed, people will pay more attention to your personality than to your person. Remember that as a representative of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you have been counseled to be "in the world, but not of the world." (See John 17:14-16.) When you dress according to these standards, you will not only merit the pride, respect, and admiration of your husband but also of your children and friends.