[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 594 | Special Feature | A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne | Kimball Pedersen]
A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne Kimball Pedersen "I'm calling to thank you," came the voice of my dear friend Gayle, over the telephone today. "Thank me?" I was puzzled, for she was the one who had done me all the favors lately. "Yes—for the gospel," she replied. "Your great-great-grandfather isn't here for me to thank, so I'm thanking you." She went on to explain that in her research that morning she had discovered that her ancestors were among the early converts to the Church in Great Britain, being baptized in the River Ribble, which runs through Preston, England, in the summer of 1838. I And with pride and love, I accepted this posthumous tribute to one of the noblest of my forebears, Heber C. Kimball, who helped open the British Mission in 1837. I remembered how in his ordination to the apostleship, he was promised that many millions would be converted by his instrumentality. Surely Gayle is one of those millions. And what of our friendship had her ancestors not heard the gospel? What if Heber C. Kimball had not proved valiant—had not possessed the faith and courage necessary to leave his wife and little ones in the care of the Lord and travel with only money enough to pay his passage to what must have seemed, in those days, another world? In his own words, he went... Because a dispensation of the Gospel had been committed to me; and I felt an ardent desire that my fellow creatures in other lands might hear the sound of the everlasting Gospel, obey its requisitions, rejoice in the fullness and blessings thereof, and escape the judgments which will come upon the ungodly. (Orson F. Whitney, Life of Heber C. Kimball [Stevens & Wallis, Inc. Publishers, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1945], p. 114.) And today I am rejoicing in the blessing of a beautiful friendship made possible by the efforts of my great-great-grandfather preaching the fulness of the gospel in a distant land so many years ago. Today, accepting Gayle's gratitude vicariously for my long-deceased progenitor, whom I hope to be worthy to meet one day, I have a new reason to be grateful to him myself—a reason I have not considered in depth before—a reason which will be ever present in the future, especially as I witness the developing friendship among my six children and Gayle's eight. And I shall wonder how many others of my friends are my brothers and sisters in the gospel because of Heber C. Kimball. And, finally, in my contemplation comes the solemn thought: how many of my descendants will rejoice in coming years because of my missionary efforts? Will their precious friendships be with people whose ancestors I had a part in bringing to a knowledge of the gospel? My patriarchal blessing promises that the spirit of my ancestry will rest upon me, that all the gracious qualities that permeated their lives will give me courage and fortitude to accomplish my mission on the earth. May it be so. I resolve to increase my faith and diligence with each passing day.