[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 590 | General Feature | Born Cooks Pearle | M. Olsen]
[Born Cooks Pearle M. Olsen]

Water sprigs of dill as desired Stir to dissolve salt while heating mixture to boiling point. Pour over cucumbers previously packed in sterile jars with sprigs of dill. Seal. S88 CHILI SAUCE 18 ripe tomatoes (medium size) 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 large green pepper ~ tsp. Allspice 2 large onions 12 tsp. Ginger 1 c. Vinegar. Pinch red pepper 1 c. Sugar salt to taste Grind tomatoes, green pepper, and onions together. Add remaining ingredients. Boil until thick. Bottle and seal. SALMON CROQUETTES 1 tall can salmon 1 c. Soft bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Minced onion 1 tbsp. Parsley 1 tsp. Lemon juice. ¥g tsp. Pepper 1% tsp. Salt: 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Oil or melted butter Mix all ingredients together and mold into cone or pyramid shapes. Fry, turning often to brown sides. I like to stand the cones in a buttered pan and bake for 30 minutes in a 400-425 degree oven. Makes 8 cones or six if larger ones are wanted. 

591 August 1970

 VIRGINIA CAKE % c. Cocoa or chocolate dissolved in a "1 c. Sour cream (not too thick) little hot water and cooled: 1 level tsp. Soda in 1 c.: sugar 22 c. Flour Yc. Butter ' Y% tsp. Cloves 2 eggs (whites beaten separately) ' Y% tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Cream of tartar Sift dry ingredients together 5 or 6 times. Mix with other ingredients to which chocolate has been added. Add 1 c. Chopped nuts just before baking. Makes three layers. Put together. With caramel frosting. S88 CARAMEL FROSTING 1 c. Sugar % c. Cream ¥% c. Brown sugar butter the size of an egg Boil six minutes. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla. Stir until cool. Spread. 8 FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Y» ¢. Sugar lc. Boiling water 6 level tbsp. Flour grated rind and juice of 1 orange "pinch of salt grated rind and juice of 1 lemon Add to thickened flour and water mixture. Pour into jar or bowl to cool. When cold. Add whipped cream as desired. 205 CORN FRITTERS To a can of cream style corn add two beaten eggs (1 large or 2 small). Thicken with 1% cups crushed soda cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste. Spoon into patties and brown in oil or shortening. Ee EARTH'S RENEWAL Lyric with April, mountains reach for sky, Pearl-shadowed in the rose and gold of dawn. Above the quickening stream, a killdeer's cry Pours spring's ecstatic melody upon A fledgling breeze. As seedling freshness spills Over the meadow's fragile green and gold, Even the hint of snow returning fills The heart with more of joy than heart can hold! Though coats of storm are wrapped around the elms, (Cloud fringe and sharp twig patterns intertwined Like worn fur.