[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 564 | Special Feature | Report— 19th Plenary Conference of International Council of Women | Belle S. Spafford]
A group of United States delegates and observers with President Belle S. Spafford (2nd from left) ad ry ay 3 =e at the Garden Party held at the Grand Palace, Bangkok, Thailand. Report XIX Plenary Conference of International Council of Women Belle S. Spafford @ Kighty-two years ago, upon invitation of the National Women's Suffrage Association, the Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association with the approval of the First Presidency sent delegates to a conference held in Washington D. C. In observance of the fortieth anniversary of the first public "Declaration of Independence" for women which demanded for them social, industrial, educational, and political rights. This Washington conference has been called "the greatest woman's conference ever held." There were seventy-seven women's organizations represented, with a number of distinguish- 564 ed women from foreign countries in attendance. The conference, primarily called to promote woman's suffrage, resulted in the founding of a National Council of Women of the United States to be made up of national women's organizations or organizations whose programs were of national significance, and the formation of an International council of Women to be made up of the national councils of the respective countries. The National Council of the United States was to meet biennially with annual meetings of its board. The International Council of Women was to meet triennially. The councils have survived the changes of almost a century and have proved themselves effective instruments in promoting human _ understanding and social well-being. Relief Society and the YWMIA became charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States, and the general boards of the two Mormon organizations have continued their membership through the years. By virtue of their membership in the National Council of Women of the United States, they have been affiliates of the International Council of Women.

[Report— 19th Plenary Conference of International Council of Women Belle S. Spafford]

The XIX Plenary Conference of the International Council of Women was held at Bangkok, Thailand, early this year (1970). It was under the royal patronage of Her Majesty, Queen Sinkit. The National Council of Women of Thailand was, of course, the host council. The president, Jhunying Usna Pramaj, served as chairman of _ preparations, with Princess Prem Purackatra as advisor. The theme of the Conference was "Living Amid Change." Emphasis was on "Human Resources for Development"; the need to promote human abilities, attitudes, and qualities that would enable women to help in the attainment of fundamental human freedom and peace. The plenary and executive sessions were conducted by Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy, ICW President, who declared that the object of ICW is "The enlightenment of women for the enhancement of Society." The Conference program listed fifty-nine affiliated councils. International Council of Women There were approximately 400 representatives in attendance. During the Conference, five new councils were admitted to membership: Madagascar, Morocco, the Ivory Coast, Botswana, and Nepal. The one representative from Nepal had walked a distance of thirty miles from her place of residence to the airport where she boarded the plane for Bangkok, so important did she regard affiliation with the ICW. On the whole the delegates were trained, experienced women. One writer referred to them as "ladies of professional distinction and proven capacity." They were deeply concerned with human life and human relationships. Throughout the Conference, I was impressed with the fact that human needs, as well as the aspirations and goals of the women of the various nations were very much the same. True, there were differences of opinion as to how best these could be achieved. Difference as to this were, in the main, due to the differing intensity of the problems within the respective nations, national traditions and culture, the degree of development of the country represented, and present national interests and determinations. The United States Council delegation of twenty women (there were two _ observers), which as President of the United States Council I was privileged to lead as chairman, performed extremely well. Each delegate was specially qualified to deal intelligently and effectively with matters under consideration in the section to which she was assigned. Yet competent, experi- 

565 August 1970

 enced, rational, and forwardlooking as were our delegates, they were restrained in speaking and at no time, in my opinion, could their actions have been interpreted as trying to dominate the Conference. Personally I was extremely proud to belong to the group. Originally fifteen sectional divisions were scheduled, corresponding to the standing committees. Later, some _ were combined. Discussions in these sectional meetings were based upon reports from international standing committees and _permanent representatives of ICW, and on reports of member councils. Sister Florence Jacobsen, President of the YWMIA, served as the NCW/US voting delegate in the very important section, "The Child and the Family." White space does not allow for a report of the discussions of each section, I would like to give a brief report of the section "The Child and the Family" which should be of special interest to Relief Society women, along with a brief report of the sections on "Media," "Films," "Radio and T. V.," and "Press" to which I was assigned and which have great influence on our family life and the attitudes and viewpoints of our children. This subject is under consideration for the fall conference of the United States Council of Women. Sister Jacobsen, in reporting the discussions of the section on the "Child and the Family," said: "We talked of problems from infancy to old age. Of foremost importance was a consideration of the child-parent relation- 566 ships—better and more comfortable communication between the two. It was the feeling of the women that greater responsibility rests with parents in improving and strengthening this relationship. "Employment of youth demanded attention. It was the opinion that one reason unrest is developing among the youth of the world is their excessive amount of leisure time and the lack of challenging employment. They want to work and be productively employed, the women maintained. It was the opinion, also, that youth would be strengthened if more involved in voluntary service programs. "There was lively discussion on drugs—their increasing use, abuse, and control, as well as a consideration of treatment for addicts. The Conference recommended more strict national and international drug laws, along with public education programs and the establishment of treatment centers as helpful solutions to the drug problems. "Sex education was also a topic of discussion. It was the general feeling that sex education belongs primarily in the homes with provision being made for training parents when and how to teach children in this sensitive area of child guidance. The Church and the school are supporting agents," Sister Jacobsen said, "but the spiritual element should remain with the home." Early in the Conference, decision was made to amalgamate the sections of Media, Films, Radio and Television, and Press, and to name the combined section "Mass Media." This was done The President of the National Council of Women of T International Council of Women ~ ty > - wel: 7. * hailand, Jnunying Usna Pramaj (left) is seated with Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy, President of the ICW. The Thai Council was host to the XIX Plenary Conference of the International Council of because discussion revealed a recognition that while each has its own unique features, they are closely related in many ways and a consideration of any one usually leads to a discussion of one or more of the others. Reports of member organizations showed wide differences in the various countries regarding the development, use, and programming of the various forms of mass communication. For example, South Africa and Afghanistan have no TV; some countries have only black and white TV. Canada complained about the flow and impact of U. S. Films into Canada which they "do not necessarily like." The delegate said it was "like sleeping against an elephant. You can't move it and it keeps crowding over into your space." Legal regulations of the various forms of media were discussed, as were their values Women. And evils. They were seen as powerful educational forces which, if guided, might almost revolutionize educational procedures. The evils to which women object are violence, nudity, sex display, and vulgarity in films and other forms of media, along with the false image of woman, particularly in commercial advertising. There were twenty-two resolutions considered, of which twenty were adopted. Some had modifications in the original wording but the general intent was not greatly altered. An important resolution submitted by the U. S. And Canada, however, titled "Peaceful Resolution of Conflict-Peace-Making and Peace-Keeping" was considerably modified due to national interests of some of the countries represented. I didn't see how it could have been otherwise in view of existing conditions. 

567 August 1970

 The Queen Mother of Thailand greets a number of the United States delegation at the Royal garden party, at the Grand Palace, Bangkok, Thailand. At the left is ICW President, Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy. The thoughtfulness and generous hospitality of the Thai women were evident from the moment we arrived until adieus were spoken. For example, Sister Jacobsen and I arrived near 2:00 A. M. To be met at the airport by two charming Thai women. The entertainment was superb. The Prime Miunister and _ his wife entertained at a reception at Government House; the Lord Mayor of Bangkok at a buffet dinner at Lumbini Park. The Thai Council was host at a Garden Party and Buffet at Nai Lort Park—a _ literal fairyland of lights, music, and dancing, with Western and Thai food attractively served in the garden. This evening was referred to as Thai Evening. By Royal Command, the delegates were entertained in the Garden of the Grand Palace, where they had the honor of shaking hands with the Queen Mother. Homes were also opened 568 to the delegates. The U. S. Ambassador to Thailand, The Honorable Leonard Unger and Mrs. Unger were extremely considerate of the U. S. Council, lending great help with our American Indian Exhibit (as was Pan American Air Lines). Ambassador and Mrs. Unger entertained at a reception in honor of the U. S. Delegation, followed by a dinner for selected guests. Other guests were invited to dinner parties given in beautiful private homes. Mrs. Unger attended a number of the meetings. The articles for the American Indian Exhibit. Represented the finest of our American Indian Culture. Articles were contributed by the Southwest Indian Mission, the Northern Indian Mission, Alaska, and individuals representing tribes throughout North America. Some items were donated through the YWMIA and a large portion through the Indian Relief Societies. A booklet accompanying the display, prepared by Sister Jacobsen of the YWMIA, was a unique and an authentic piece of work. A meeting of Council presidents, which was of special interest to me, led into a proposal that the purposes, organizational structure, and procedures of the ICW be studied and evaluated, including the frequency, plan, and length of the international conferences. Time did not allow for action on this. All in all, the Conference was International Council of Women a broadening experience, enlarging one's understanding of people of the different nations and increasing one's respect for them. The Conference is bound to be productive of good. It created in me a new sense of pride in the U. S. Council and the able women identified with it. I felt the two: Mormon organizations have much to offer organized women of the free world, and in turn, learn from them. Attendance at the Conference taught me, personally, the potency of restraint in leadership.