[Vol57 | August 1970 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: 585 A Little Hand, Leah J. Leonard]
A  Little  Hand,  Leah  J.  Leonard;  586  Small  Sanctuary,  Dorothy  J.  Roberts;  589  Reflection,  Sandra 
Lundquist;  592  Earth's  Renewal,  Maxine  R.  Jennings;  595  His  Father's  Keys,  Carolyn  K.  Dickson; 
600  The  Floweing,  Iris  W.  Schow;  610  Regrets,  Ruth  G.  Rothe;  632  Solace  From  a  Book,  L/7a 
L.  Smith. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. ©1970 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111; 
Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  price  25*  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No 
back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second  class  matter 
February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate 
of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible 
for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
563

A  group  of  United  States  delegates  and  observers  with  President  Belle  S.  Spafford  (2nd  from  left) 
at  the  Garden  Party  held  at  the  Grand  Palace,  Bangkok,  Thailand. 
Report 
XIX  Plenary  Conference  of 
International  Council  of  Women 
Belle  S.  Spafford 
■  Eighty-two  years  ago,  upon 
invitation  of  the  National  Wom- 
en's Suffrage  Association,  the 
Relief  Society  and  the  Young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  with  the  approval 
of  the  First  Presidency  sent  dele- 
gates to  a  conference  held  in 
Washington  D.C.  in  observance 
of  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the 
first  public  "Declaration  of  In- 
dependence" for  women  which 
demanded  for  them  social,  in- 
dustrial, educational,  and  political 
rights.  This  Washington  confer- 
ence has  been  called  "the  great- 
est woman's  conference  ever 
held."  There  were  seventy-seven 
women's  organizations  represent- 
ed, with  a  number  of  distinguish- 
ed women  from  foreign  countries 
in  attendance. 
The  conference,  primarily  call- 
ed to  promote  woman's  suffrage, 
resulted  in  the  founding  of  a 
National  Council  of  Women  of 
the  United  States  to  be  made  up 
of  national  women's  organiza- 
tions or  organizations  whose  pro- 
grams were  of  national  signifi- 
cance, and  the  formation  of  an 
International  council  of  Women 
to  be  made  up  of  the  national 
councils  of  the  respective  coun- 
tries. The  National  Council  of 
the  United  States  was  to  meet 
biennially  with  annual  meetings 
of  its  board.  The  International 
Council  of  Women  was  to  meet 
triennially.    The    councils    have 
564

International  Council  of  Women 
survived  the  changes  of  almost 
a  century  and  have  proved  them- 
selves effective  instruments  in 
promoting  human  understand- 
ing and  social  well-being. 
Relief  Society  and  the  YWMIA 
became  charter  members  of  the 
National  Council  of  Women  of 
the  United  States,  and  the 
general  boards  of  the  two  Mor- 
mon organizations  have  con- 
tinued their  membership  through 
the  years.  By  virtue  of  their 
membership  in  the  National 
Council  of  Women  of  the  United 
States,  they  have  been  affiliates 
of  the  International  Council  of 
Women. 
The  XIX  Plenary  Conference 
of  the  International  Council  of 
Women  was  held  at  Bangkok, 
Thailand,  early  this  year  ( 1970).  It 
was  under  the  royal  patronage 
of  Her  Majesty,  Queen  Sirikit. 
The  National  Council  of  Women 
of  Thailand  was,  of  course,  the 
host  council.  The  president, 
Jhunying  Usna  Pramaj,  served 
as  chairman  of  preparations, 
with  Princess  Prem  Purackatra 
as  advisor. 
The  theme  of  the  Conference 
was  "Living  Amid  Change." 
Emphasis  was  on  "Human  Re- 
sources for  Development";  the 
need  to  promote  human  abilities, 
attitudes,  and  qualities  that 
would  enable  women  to  help  in 
the  attainment  of  fundamental 
human  freedom  and  peace. 
The  plenary  and  executive 
sessions  were  conducted  by  Mrs. 
Craig  Schuller-McGeachy,  ICW 
President,  who  declared  that  the 
object  of  ICW  is  "The  enlighten- 
ment of  women  for  the  en- 
hancement of  Society." 
The  Conference  program  list- 
ed  fifty-nine  affiliated   councils. 
There  were  approximately  400 
representatives  in  attendance. 
During  the  Conference,  five  new 
councils  were  admitted  to  mem- 
bership: Madagascar,  Morocco, 
the  Ivory  Coast,  Botswana,  and 
Nepal.  The  one  representative 
from  Nepal  had  walked  a  distance 
of  thirty  miles  from  her  place  of 
residence  to  the  airport  where  she 
boarded  the  plane  for  Bangkok, 
so  important  did  she  regard  af- 
filiation with  the  ICW. 
On  the  whole  the  delegates 
were  trained,  experienced  women. 
One  writer  referred  to  them  as 
"ladies  of  professional  distinction 
and  proven  capacity."  They  were 
deeply  concerned  with  human 
life  and  human  relationships. 
Throughout  the  Conference, 
I  was  impressed  with  the  fact 
that  human  needs,  as  well  as  the 
aspirations  and  goals  of  the 
women  of  the  various  nations 
were  very  much  the  same.  True, 
there  were  differences  of  opinion 
as  to  how  best  these  could  be 
achieved.  Difference  as  to  this 
were,  in  the  main,  due  to  the  dif- 
fering intensity  of  the  problems 
within  the  respective  nations, 
national  traditions  and  culture, 
the  degree  of  development  of  the 
country  represented,  and  present 
national  interests  and  determin- 
ations. 
The  United  States  Council 
delegation  of  twenty  women 
(there  were  two  observers), 
which  as  President  of  the  United 
States  Council  I  was  privileged 
to  lead  as  chairman,  performed 
extremely  well.  Each  delegate 
was  specially  qualified  to  deal 
intelligently  and  effectively  with 
matters  under  consideration  in 
the  section  to  which  she  was 
assigned.  Yet  competent,  experi- 
565