[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 625 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Gratitude | ]
Eternal Father placed his name upon his Son, and, therefore, '"'so far as power, authority, and Godship are concerned His words and acts were and are those of the Father." (The Articles of Faith, p. 471.) The First Presidency continued with this counsel: None of these considerations, however, can change in the least degree the solemn fact of the literal relationship of Father and Son between Elohim and Jesus Christ. THE HOLY GHOST The Holy Ghost, the third member of the Godhead, is the testator or witness of the Father and the Son. By his power men may know the existence and divinity of the other members of the Godhead. (Moses 1:24; 5:9; 6:59-60.) The Holy Ghost as a member of the Godhead is a personage of spirit; that is, he is as a man in form but not tabernacled with flesh and bone. (Talmage, The 624 Articles of Faith, p. 42; D&C 130: 22-23.) Moses, the writer of the Book of Genesis, used the pronouns "us" and "our" when the Lord said: "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." (Gen. 1:26.) In a sermon on the plurality of Gods, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: I have always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods.... We have three Gods and they are -plural.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950], 6:474.) CONCLUSION Latter-day Saints should appreciate the primary functions of the three personages in the Godhead, as given in the following from the Prophet Joseph Smith: Everlasting covenant was made between three personages before the organization of this earth, and relates to their dispensation of things to men on the earth; these personages, according to Abraham's record, are called God the first, the Creator; God the second, the Redeemer; and God the third, the Witness or Testator. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 190.) There exists among the members of the Godhead a oneness that is perfect. As Elder Parley P. Pratt, an apostle of this dispensation, said: "Their oneness consists of a oneness of spirit, intelligence, attributes, knowledge or power." (Parley P. Pratt, Key to Theology [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1965], p. 42.)

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 2—Gratitude Northern Hemisphere: First Week, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To remember that gratitude blesses both giver and receiver. "Thanksgiving for a former doth invite God to bestow a second benefit." (Robert Herrick, Thanksgiving, The Home Book of Quotations, ed. Burton Stevenson [New York: Dodd Mead & Company, 1967], p. 824.) "Gratitude is the memory of the heart." (J. B. Massieu, "Letter to Abbé Sicard," The Pocket Book of Quotations, ed. Henry Davidoff [New York: Pocket Books, 1968], p. 122.) Ancient Samaria was built on a hill that lies in a basin surrounded by mountains. The surrounding countryside takes its name from this former capital city of the ten tribes of Israel. And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. (Luke 17:11-19.) The Samaritans were hated by the Jews of Jesus' day. Descendants of apostate Jews and alien peoples, brought into the area by Alexander the Great, a Macedonian Greek, had adopted a corrupt form of the Judaic religion. Consequently, they were shunned by the Jews and enmity grew between them. Jesus, however, did not share their prejudices. Even though we are told that once the Samaritans would not receive him into one of their villages (Luke 9:51-56), he showed on other occasions that he judged a Samaritan on his faith and worth as an individual, and not as a member of a despised group. In the instance of the lepers, Jesus showed compassion to the Samaritan as well as to the others. This scorned man alone, this stranger, returned to kneel at Jesus' feet and give him thanks. Jesus' response to this expression of gratitude was to teach him the great lesson that faith had made him whole. 

625 August 1970

 We may well ask ourselves, Are we like the Samaritan, taking the time to express our thanks, or are we like the nine—too busy, too preoccupied, lacking gratitude? Not long ago a man, observing his garbage being collected, took the time to leave his warm house on a cold day and tell these men how much he appreciated their services. Their pleased astonishment showed how seldom someone bothered. As the men stood talking together, it was evident that all felt rewarded. How can we express gratitude to our Heavenly Father, our earthly parents, our spouses, our children, our brothers and sisters, our friends, our bishops, our teachers, our stake presidents, our stake boards, and all those who preside over and help us? If we look about us, we may be surprised at the number to whom we owe thanks. Many make our lives smoother and more pleasant. Do they not deserve thanks? As one expresses his gratitude, he knows within his heart that in the warmth of the ensuing relationship the giver and the receiver are blessed.