[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 587 | General Feature | Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace | Diane Jessen]
R all - Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace Diane Jessen @® When Grandmother died, her dishes were divided into nine numbered piles and each of her children received one according to a number pulled from a hat. My father decided, a few months later, to pass his pile of dishes on to his three daughters. Accordingly, one spring day, my sisters and I brought a dusty box up from the basement storeroom and examined the contents as eagerly as if it were buried treasure. I don't suppose any of the dishes would have brought much money at an auction, but to me they were a kind of treasure. Each one was a priceless gold mine of memories that linked me again to Grandmother whenever I saw it. My first choice from the assortment was Grandmother's large berry bowl. The clear glass was cut in a pattern of daisies and ornate leaves with smooth scallops around the nm. It would hold nearly two quarts of cold raspberries (picked from her own patch in the summer and bottled for winter-time company). It is a reminder of countless meals at Grandmother's round wooden table with that bowl, brimful of red berries, as a centerpiece. Next, I took a round relish plate of pale pink glass divided into four sections with a wide edge cut into intricate diamond shapes. I remember Grandmother's trembling hands bringing it into the dining room on special occasions with sweet and dill pickles, cheese slices, and pickled beets filling the compartments. The brown earthenware milk pitcher, with cheerful flowers winding up its sides under the shiny glaze, became another of my treasures. The pouring spout is badly chipped, but I hardly notice that. This pitcher was an item not reserved for company use but brought to the table for all ordinary meals. Perhaps that is why it seems more completely and uniquely to have belonged to Grandmother than any of the rest. The sweet fresh milk inside this pitcher unfailingly seemed to complement the snowy white tablecloth underneath. My next selection was a set of six water glasses. They are tall, thin, and straight with pink clover blossoms painted on the outside. Grandmother entrusted them to my young hands on several occasions when I begged to help her set the table, and in a small way they became a symbol of her early faith in me. I also chose four cereal bowls of translucent china with slightly rippled rims. They remind me of summer suppers of homemade bread, milk, and radishes that I shared with Grandmother at her drop-leaf kitchen table covered with floral oilcloth. Last, I fell heir to a fawn-colored cream pitcher with an unusual shape and 'design, somewhat like an Aladdin's lamp. It had no matching sugar bowl and it was one item I never remembered seeing in Grandmother's cupboard. Inside was a tiny key to some unknown lock. Perhaps the pitcher and its mysterious key had been tucked in a high 'corner years ago and forgotten. Now it rests on a high shelf in my cupboard where its mystery will probably never be solved. My sisters chose other objects which held special meaning for them. One selected, among other things, an old and delicate pink platter, and the other wanted a set of salt and pepper shakers in the shape of miniature pot-bellied stoves. We cherish our treasures not because of monetary value, but because of the gentle hands that lovingly washed and dried them year upon year and preserved them for us. On special occasions, to the delight of my children, I bring out our "Grandma's dishes" for use, with a warning to handle them carefully. In this day of hard plastic dinnerware, our glass treasurers are a fragile and precious link with the past. 587 PHOTOGRAPH BY DOROTHY J.