[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 619 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— The Doctrine of the Godhead | ]
[Spiritual Living— The Doctrine of the Godhead]

(Joséph Fielding 

619 August 1970

 Smith Comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1938] p. 345.) The Savior declared in praying to his Father: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) Class Discussion Why do you think that a knowledge of God is necessary in order for one to receive eternal life or godhood? APOSTATE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD The doctrine of God as known in many of the so-called "Christian" creeds is that there is one God, without body, parts, or passions; consequently, God is a spirit only. The Nicene Creed, formulated in the year 325, declared that there is one God, yet there are three Gods. An excerpt from that creed illustrates this doctrine: "So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God." (James E. Talmage. The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1890], p. 48.) Latter-day Saint belief in the Godhead is expressed in the first Article of Faith, as follows: We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. (Article of Faith 1.) THE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD RESTORED Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received, from the many revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a true knowledge of the Godhead. The first of these revelations was the First 620 Vision, received in the spring of 1820, when Joseph Smith was a young man in his fifteenth year. The following account of this experience restored the _ true understanding of two of the three Personages in the Godhead. I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17.) That God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are separate beings of flesh and bone, and that the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is the third member of the Godhead, was subsequently revealed. (D&C 130:22-23.) From the Pearl of Great Price we learn that there were three members known to ancient prophets. In the account of the creation, we read the following: And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. (Moses 2:26. Gen. 1:26 uses the pronoun "us" but without reference to "mine Only Begotten." See also Gen. 3:22 and Moses 4:28.) In the Book of Moses the Holy Ghost is mentioned as bearing record of the Father and the Son. (Moses 1:24; 5:9.) Men were called upon by the Holy Ghost to repent in the Adamic dispensation. (Moses 5:14.) The same power present today to baptize "with fire, and with the Holy Ghost" was operative in the days of the patriarchs. (Moses 6:66.) An explanation of Figure 7, Facsimile No. 2 in the Book of Abraham reads: "... The sign of the Holy Ghost unto Abraham " THE ETERNAL FATHER Members of the Church know that God the Eternal Father is the literal Father of the Savior Jesus Christ, who is known as his Only Begotten Son, and also of the spirits of all men. He is known as "Elohim." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 466.) Latter-day Saints are therefore commanded to pray to him, as the Lord addressed his Father: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name." (Matt. 6:9; 3 Ne. 20:31; D&C 18:18, 40.) About the Father of us all, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens! That is the great secret. If the veil were rent today, and the great God who holds this world in its orbit, and who upholds all worlds and all things by his power, was to make himself visible,—I say, if you were to see him today, you would see him like a man in form—like yourselves in all the person, image, and very form as a man; for Adam was created in the very fashion, image and likeness of God, and received instruction from, and walked, talked and conversed with him, as one man talks and communes with another. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345.) Class Discussion What significance does the above concept of the Father have for you? THE FATHER TESTIFIES OF CHRIST Of the several instances in the scriptures when God, the Eternal Father, testified of his Son Jesus Christ, four of these times are recorded in the New Testament. (Matt. 3:15-17; Luke 0:22; Matt. 17:1-9; John 12: 23-30.) The Book of Mormon account was on the occasion of the resurrected Savior's appearLesson Department ance to the Nephites. (3 Ne. 11:7.) In our dispensation, the Pearl of Great Price attests to the fact that the Father recognized the authority of his Son Jesus Christ when he said to Joseph Smith: "This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Joseph Smith 2:17.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out the following regarding some of the ancient prophets: Unto Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham and Moses the Father revealed Himseif, attesting the Godship of the Christ, and the fact that the Son was the Chosen Savior of mankind." (James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ [Boston: University Press, 1915], p. 39; see Moses 186931288; 2:1; 472, 3; 6:67; 7:36, 3By 47, 53-59; 8:16, 19, 23, 24; Abraham 3:22- 28.) JESUS CHRIST AND THE OLD TESTAMENT PERIOD A Bible dictionary points out that the name Jehovah is one of the names of God (Exod. 17: 15), and out of reverence for the divine name, the Jews, around 300 B. C., used Adonai or Lord. Thus in the King James Bible "Lord" is used generally for the name of God. (John D. Davis, The Westminster Dictionary of the Bible, revised by Henry Snyder Gehman [Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1944], p. 287.) In a modern revelation, the voice of Jesus Christ is described as "the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:3-4.) This identification of Jesus Christ of the New Testament with the Lord of the Old Testament period is clearly indicated in the theol- 

621 August 1970

 ogy of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With the understanding of what God has revealed in this dispensation concerning Jesus Christ, Elder B. H. Roberts, a member of the First Council of Seventy of this dispensation, in reply to a learned rabbi's contention that Jehovah, God of the Old Testament, is the Redeemer of mankind, and, therefore, there was no need for Jesus Christ (Isa. 43:11), called attention to the fact that the Bible prophets foresaw the time when "The mighty God, The _ everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace," would be born. (Isa. 9:6.) Then Elder Roberts proceeded to show wherein the Prophet Isaiah predicted that Jehovah would have a body, for he was to arise from the dead, as the Lord said: Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew [sorrow] is as the dew of herbs [it will pass away], and the earth shall cast out the dead. (Isa. 26:19.) Therefore, if Jehovah is to be born, live, die, and then be resurrected, and if only he can save and redeem man from sin, then the God of the Old Testament becomes Jesus Christ of the New Testament—they are the same. THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE At least twenty-five times in the Book of Moses Jesus Christ is identified as the Only Begotten of the Father, even he who shall come "in the meridian of time." (Moses 7:46.) It was Enoch who pled with God, "I ask thee, O Lord, in the name of thine Only Begotten, even Jesus Christ, 622 that thou wilt have mercy upon Noah and his seed...." (Moses 7:50.) Jehovah saved Abraham from being sacrificed on an Egyptian altar. (Abr. 1:15-16.) In_ blessing Abraham and his posterity, the Lord said: "My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee." (Abr. 2:8.) THE BOOK OF MORMON The Nephite scriptures testify that God who led Lehi and his party to the American Continent and inspired the prophets to lead them throughout their history was Jesus Christ. The brass plates brought from Jerusalem by Lehi contained some prophecies of Zenock, Neum, and Zenos. These prophets testified, said Nephi, about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who would be crucified and buried in a sepulcher, and of the judgments that would come upon _ those at Jerusalem who had rejected the God of Israel. (1 Ne. 19:10- 14.) King Benjamin prophesied of the time when the Lord would be born among men, of his ministry, and of his great suffering for mankind, and that he should be called the Son of God, the Creator, even Jesus' Christ. (Mosiah 3:5-11.) It was the Savior—our Lord Jesus Christ on the American Continent anciently—who said that he was the one who gave the law of Moses and that he had fulfilled the law. (3 Ne. 15:4-5.) The importance of the doctrine that Jesus Christ is God of the Old Testament and also the New Testament was indicated by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said: You will hear... Not infrequently that the God of the Old Testament is different from the God of the New Testament; that the God of the Old Testament has evolved into the God of the New—rather a rapid evolution, if it were true.... When that doctrine is reduced down, it means this: that God is what man conceives him to be; that man creates his God, instead of God creating man. No greater falsehood can be promulgated than that. (Conference Report, September 1950, p. 100.) CHRIST'S WORK Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, the Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh and the Firstborn in the spirit. He is known as the Creator, for under the direction of the Father, he created worlds. During his mortal life he became man's example as the perfect being, but as President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: He came here; he restored the Gospel; he fulfilled the law of Moses; he did away with sacrifice; he declared to the people on this continent that thereafter their sacrifice was to be ''a broken heart and a contrite spirit." (III Nephi 9:20) He lived, he died, was crucified, lay in the tomb, was resurrected, and by that act of sacrifice he made certain that every man and woman born to this earth will be resurrected. This was his work as Redeemer. Now I want merely to leave with you this thought: That Jesus, the Christ, was a God before he came here, was a member-of the. Trinity. He was divinely conceived. He: was half-Deity while he was here, but shackled with mortality. That from here he went to the other side to resume his position in the Trinity, again resuming his full Godship. ("Jesus The Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956.) Jesus Christ is the Mediator between God and man. He is Lesson Department our Advocate who defends or pleads for us. (Luke 22:31-32; John 17:11-26.) He is our Atoner whereby obedient men may return to God's presence. Class Discussion Why is the mission of Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer his principal function? GIVER OF REVELATION In his role as God of the Old Testament period, Jesus Christ or Jehovah; after the fall of Adam and his expulsion from the Garden of Eden; communicated with his prophets upon the earth. (D&C 76:12-14.) The Eternal Father has appeared to men on only few occasions, and then to introduce and bear record of his Only Begotten Son.