Let Us Cherish One Another Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer, Relief Society (Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 8, 1958.) N March 24, 1842, at the second meeting of Relief Society, Sister Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet, said, "This institution [referring to Relief Society] is a good one.... We must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another, and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in Heaven together." This statement has impressed me as one which aptly portrays the spirit and purpose of Relief Society — "to cherish one another, to watch over one another, to comfort one another and to gain instruction," or we might say, gain an understanding of the principles of the gospel in order that we might all work out our salvation and exaltation. In the midst of the anxieties, unhappiness, loneliness, physical and spiritual sickness, and insecurities that exist in the world today, how needed are those influences of which Sister Smith spoke! I recently had occasion to call at the home of an elderly sister. She had lived in her home ward for many years. It was where the youngest of her children had grown up, and all had been active in the Church. During the past few years, in her less active condition, her children, wanting to make sure that their mother was properly cared for, had arranged for her to close up her home, which to her was indeed "home," and to live for two or three months in turn with each of them. This sister appreciated the love and Page 148 consideration of her children, but she was not fully happy because she yearned to be in her own home. So the family took her back to her. Home and arranged for her sister, who was also elderly but more active, to come and live with her. It was shortly after, that I called on them. Upon inquiring if they were happy, their answer was "Oh, yes, but we wish that we could go to Relief Society meeting. It would be so good to mingle with the sisters there, but even those two blocks are too far to walk." Here were two sisters who were not in need physically, except for transportation, but, as Lucy Smith said, they needed to be cherished, they needed to feel that they belonged, they needed to be built up —they needed Relief Society. Not long ago, I went into the home of a young mother, a girl from a good Latter-day Saint home, but who for some reason had not taken a very active part in the Church herself. She had four lovely young children, but the children were disturbed; they were insecure; they were starving for love, for the