Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1899 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" RESOLUTION BY THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: Believing that the two strongest unifying forces of organized effort are human brotherhood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing in the expression of humanitarian principles in the manifold activities of American women, represented by the National Council of Women; therefore, Resolved, That this universal faith in the Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by either vocal or silent prayer at the opening of all sessions of the Council. —From the Triennial Report A NOBLE RELIEF SOCIETY WOMAN: The day is quite emblematic, the 8oth birthday of our beloved and respected Stake president, Sister M. I. Horne the snow coming down so pure and white is like... Her grand life has been... She has been a model woman, thoroughly domesticated, but modest and unassuming.... I well remember how gentle she seemed in conducting the affairs of the society, yet firm in all her ways, but never any arrogance.... I do not forget how she would intercede with the sisters to do their duty and laid plans, and persevered in having the society hall built... That being completed, paid for and dedicated, how she again planned for the building of a granary.... Her family is an example to the community. What a heavenly blessing! MY WARNING Father, I daily plead, keep me from sin, Help me a shining light to be, To help those whom thou hast placed within my care, That I may lead them back to Thee, Back to the home from whence, so pure, they came, This is the prayer I ask in Jesus' name. —Nellie MEMORABLE ANNIVERSARY: The 17th of March, anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society, will be generally observed throughout the organization in some way commemorative of that auspicious occasion, and no doubt the sisters will try to review in some way the work accomplished during the fifty-seven years, though very few are living now who were present then. Only one that we can recall at this present moment, that one is Sister Bathsheba B. Smith, who was at that time not quite twenty years old. 'The assistant secretary appointed on that occasion, Sister Phebe M. Wheeler, has died during the last few months at Bountiful at a great age. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WEBER STAKE: Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the sisters. Said the faces of the Saints were the most beautiful picture she could look upon. Her desire was to comfort and bless the sisters. She had never had a doubt of the divinity of this work, had received a testimony when a child, and felt herself the happiest person in the world. —Act. Sec. Page 168