She Value of a Smile Myrtle S. Hyde Y small son, only two and a half years old, looked up at me and said, "Smile, Mommy." His request startled me, but I smiled. I thought about his words for quite awhile, and realized that I was often too intent upon getting the work done, the little, dirty hands washed, or the shoes tied to smile at my child. I have tried to smile more often, and it works wonders. We have more happy moments, and the distance of years between us is made oblivious because, as we smile at one another, I am not mother and he child; we are just two people who are happy together. Lily &. A. Liner Mlakes Satin Quilts for Her Grandchildren | Pee E. A. Miner, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the age of seventy-eight, has thirty-three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Nearly all of them have been given a satin crib quilt, beautifully designed and stitched with meticulous care. Mrs. Miner has made hundreds of doilies, centerpieces, tablecloths, and many other pieces of fancywork. She loves to work on quilts at Relief Society work meetings. In fact, Mrs. Miner and Relief Society have been inseparable for many years. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for more than forty-five vears and has continuously made a one hundred per cent record, except for one year when she spent part of the time in California. She was born in Fairview, Sanpete County, and still loves that beautiful valley with its borders of high mountains and its wide green meadows. She is still busy crocheting and making quilts. Last spring she made a "Signature" quilt, embroidering the name of her husband, her own name, and the names of their nine children, each on a separate block, with quilted blocks alternating. She is now making a red, white, and blue, star quilt. ~<> Si a ith Iris W. Schow Faith is the crocus at the snowdrift's edge; The unfelt hand laid on the heart that grieves; The gleam of light beyond the blackest dark; The stanch white rose among the cypress leaves. Page 192 The