A Prince of Ur. ^3' Homespun. Ischa was a true child of her fierce Accadian forefathers. The wild passions that beat at her heart's gateway, were but held in temporary check through the environment which the upbringing in Terah's palace had given her. Aided by a thousand temptations both within and without her own soul, she was just now standing at the very threshold of her life, and, either for evil or for good — who holds the issues — self or God — she was to choose, once and forever. "Was it not wise for me to stay within?" queried the voice of Zillah. 'T stood and made the secret signs for thee all through this long and triumphant interview. If 'twere not for my doing so, mayhap the lady Sarai had given thee more to think about." Ischa looked twice at her slave-woman. She both feared and distrusted her. But so carefully had the slave planned, so cunningly had she wrought upon the emotions and passions of her mistress that she was not the slave but rather was she mistress. And so the lady Ischa nodded her head as she called her servants from the courtyard to attend their evening duties. "Will your Highness permit the visit of your kinsman Mardan to communicate his news to thee " so spake the black woman, Zillah, an hour later as she bowed low before the couch of the Princess, Sarai. "News? Of the Petesti?" "That is not given me to tell thee. Mardan but asks for audience," replied the slave. "Then summon the ladies of the household. Ischa, Milcah. Irit, and lay thou our dutiful salutations before the mother of our lord Mardon, wise Merab, with notice of this conference." "'Tis thee he seeks, not the household," said Zillah. "Then shall we honor him the more with the riches of our countenance. Edra, quick, call the musicians, give them place in the upper gallery. Give incense freshly to the vases, and flowers to the bowls. We shall receive our kinsman as befits his rank." Fireflies touched the outer twilight with occasional light flashes, while just now the distant temple bells were calling out insistent reminders of the solemn worship of Ischtar which would begin when the moon climbed above the low horizon at midnight. The music began, first with one throbbing note on some delicate stringed instrument, a zither perhaps, and the fragile melody was A PRINCE OF UR. 185 caught and emphasized after a slight pause by the clash of harps, zithers, kerens, kinnors and cymbals. They beat the soft evening shades with pulsing melody, first of a twitter as if evening birds were settling in their river marsh beds. Then, with crashing single major chords, they filled the whole courtyard with the bolder tramp of armed men, and this merged again into single melodies as if the heart were tired of arms and war, and voiced its silent cry of human pain through the medium of flute and string. Human voices fluttered in and out of the melodies, so delicately and subtly merged that one could scarcely tell when harp began or voice left off. The trains of stately women who were thus hastily bidden to Sarai's salon slowly emerged into the open lighted and fragrant space of the courtyard, two of the maidens claiming quick and tense attention from the man who had but entered the enclosure. It was Mardan, and he was both astonished and annoyed to find that his covert invitation to speak with the head of the women of Petesi's household should have been bunglingly construed to include the whole harem. "My Princess," he breathed with sudden emotion choking his ready utterance, and bowing low before the lady who watched him with serene countenance, "I am overpowered with thy gracious presence, and with the favor of these my kinswomen." The Lady Sarai was indeed as a light in dark places. Others were tall, she was not noticeable for that alone. Some were gracious, in a land where dignity and grace are as life to all of gentle blood; but the superb carriage of her queenly head and supple form affected one as does music, or wine, or sunlight on the Euphrates River at dawn. There were eyes of others whose colors matched the royal jacinth; but these were wells of such 'limpid glory that it was sweet just to look within and lose thought and reason in sheer emotion — whether of pleasure, hope, love or envy depended on the one who was caught in the net of charm woven by their translucent depths. The curling hair, now bound with a scarf of sheer weaving from the looms of Damascus, shone even through that shroud with blue-black luster and the allurement of the twisted ropes of dusky braids was felt when sight could not penetrate the wimple's secret. The features were proudly and finely molded by the finger of the gods who loved beauty and comeliness in woman. The cheek was sunkissed Rose of Sharon, while the graciously curved lips were glowing as the heart of the ripe pomegranate. Each feature was perfect with a human perfection which cast the veil of fascination about her whole presence. She was a woman to build kingdoms, or to destroy men. Those who came into her presence for the first time were shaken as if a sudden wind or fire had filled their veins. "The salutations of thy mother," said the beauteous Sarai^ 
 "mingles with the welcome given thee by these my kinswomen." And as she spoke she indicated with sweeping gesture the others who were disposed about her person. "The Lady Ischa is the moon-goddess of comeliness and grace," and Mardan again salaamed low before that lady who was eyeing him with visible contempt. "Ischa's tongue travels straight paths, even if her light be the reflected one of inferior charm." The tart tones might have disconcerted the courtier, but he was on his guard. He turned quietly to the other two slighter maidens who both accepted his salutations with diffidence and indifference. The dark elfin eyes of Irit betrayed the enjoyment she felt in thus sharing the visit which she felt sure was intended only for the Princess Sarai. But the dove-like gaze of Milcah rested calmly upon Mardan with the trustful confidence and guilelessness of a soul unfitted to struggle with austere or subtle problems. "Hast thy news to do with the return of the Petesi, or our progenitor curiosity. Terah?" asked Milcah in all simplicity and eager Mardan smiled candidly. "Thou hast the divination of the simple, sweet kinswoman. My news has to do with the return — not of our father Terah — but with the coming of our kinsman — Abram — who color on is — didn’t the cheek speakmatched of Sarai — my Princess?" matched the feverish bright bloom the cheek of her cousin, Isca. But neither had spoken. Mardan kept his bulbous blue eyes on the radiant countenance of the Princess Sarai. "Doth his coming mean so much to thee, my Princess?" he asked. The question was so shrewdly aimed to catch her in its toils that Sarai proudly turned her face away, without answering.* "Abram rode this morn within these walls." Only the quickened breathing of all the maidens gave answer to this unexpected news. Then Milcah asked again: "And is my lord Abram in good health? Comes he here to stay, or on passing visit, as in twenty years gone by?" "That thou must question of him. He is here, filled with crude and primitive ideals, ready to condemn those who differ, or to crush any who oppose." If Mardan hoped to prejudice his listeners, he should have chosen better weapons. The lady Ischa looked contemptuously at him. "How gracious and kingly must be the Prince of Ur," she purred insolently, "to create envy in the breast of the polished courtier Mardan." Again on his guard, Mardan assumed an unhappy and downcast air as he cast off this thrust. A PRINCE OF UR. 187 "Abram is a mountain and I a mound; he is favored of God and man, I make my way with pain and suffering up the eminences of life. Yet have I kept my pity for those who cannot even climb, but must drag painfully along life's highway." The eyes of the Princess Sarai were clouded with the annoyance she felt in the ever expressed antagonism of these two, Mardan and Ischa, who should be friends and good companions. "Cease," she said quietly, and when her voice first fell upon the ear all the other charms of face and form were forgotten in the exquisite melody of her flute-like tones. "This is no time for difference, nor for strife. Let us at once to the preparation of the household for the welcome of our guest and long-absent kinsman." "Thy zeal hath been forestalled — the cooks are at the fire, the slaves are in the fields and river, the keepers of the Chests are already uncovering all the treasures of carpet and loom." "Thank thee, Mardan, for thy kindly haste. But there be other things that only women's hands may do to brighten and beautify these ancient halls. Shall we consider this visit at an end?" The dismissal was so gently given, the smile which accompanied it was so tenderly gracious that Mardan bowed himself to the earth, and remained so while the now fluttered cortege swept into their retreats. The princess Sarai turned back, hesitatingly, as if drawn by an impulse of which she was modestly ashamed. "Asked the prince Abram concerning his kinswomen?" she queried. Mardan's face was eloquent of sympathy as he made answer, "The Prince made courteous inquiry of all the ladies of the harem but spoke no one's name save that of my mother, gracious lady." The princess was now on her guard, against the betrayal of whatever maidenly curiosity she may have felt. She was a princess, as well as a woman. So she parried lightly. "The Prince Abram will have much to do. He is needed in this unhappy palace and city. His may be the hand to crush out this monstrous pagan idolatry." "The Prince loves his own ambition well enough to seek fame and fortune at any costs. He has the bravery of exploitation, and the daring of covetousness." The lady looked at the frank and bland face of her handsome kinsman with a somewhat puzzled gaze. This was a new aspect of this cautious and courteous smiling cousin of hers. _He was wont to praise all men. Why now should he accuse? His praise was too often glaring in its crude crass extreme. But why should he now speak with acid tongue. Was the Prince Abram already proven false and untrue? 
 "My lady Sarai, I have words to say in thine ear that must be conveyed to thee through the lips of my mother. For thou art so pure and so exalted in thy spirit and character that only in the guarded manner of our ancestors might I dare to express the ardor of my sentiments. May my mother seek thee on thee on the morrow?” Sarai was touched to the heart. The delicacy of such an row?" evident appeal to the dearest traditions of their Semite race concerning the sacred rites of courtship melted her as no other appeal could have done. Her eyes shone with so much lustrous approval that Mardan had much ado in controlling himself to keep within the pales of his own discreet resolution. "Your mother shall receive audience from me in good time, my dear kinsman, and I shall gladly seek her for that counsel and trust. But let me rest, kinsman Mardan, for some days, nay weeks; there is so much of graver moment that I shall have no time or pleasure in the contemplation of mine own affairs." With a brilliant smile, the lady swept onward with that half-gliding, half springing step that again centered the attention of all near her as if there were both an inward grace of allurement and an outer strength of purpose which combined to focus all eyes upon her when present and which made all places seem vacant and dim when her gleaming presence was withdrawn. Mardan stood wrapt in emotion as he watched Sarai disappear, followed by the soft-moving crowd of ladies-in-attendance who made up her court. "There must be no meeting between the Prince of Ur and the Lady Sarai till the presence of Terah and Nimrod fasten my claim to her. I have the promise of Terah.. Nimrod must be won." So spoke Mardan to Zillah. who had lingered behind the cortege. "Abram — Sarai? Zillah shall cast the augurs," replied the black princess, moodily, yet firmly, as she withdrew to carry out her supersitious purpuse. (To Be Continued.) If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings — nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much: If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance rum. Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, And — which is more — you'll be a Man. my son!" From Rewards and Fairies — Rudyard Kipling.