[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Beginnings in Foreign Lands]

Relief Society Beginnings in Foreign Lands It is interesting to examine the old records of work done by our sisters in pioneer days, not only in Utah, but in foreign lands also. We discover from the records collected in the Historian's Office, that Relief Societies were organized in the following countries on the dates named: White Chapel, London Conference, March 4, 1874. Laie, Hawaiian Mission, July 6, 1875. Copenhagen, Denmark, November 20, 1879. Christ Church, New Zealand, August 1, 1880. Berlin, Germany, August 23, 1881, Berne, Switzerland, about 1886. Amsterdam, Holland, about 1886 or '89. SCANDINAVIAN RELIEF SOCIETY The following brief but excellent account of the first Relief Society formed in Denmark has been furnished the Magazine by Assistant Church Historian, Andrew Jenson, and we may be sure of all the facts here presented as Historian Jenson is one of the most pains-taking, fact-gathering, history-proving, men of genius produced in this Church and in modern time. Those who are familiar with his work are filled with admiration at the comprehensive and wonderful labor performed by Elder Jenson. He has collected not only ward records of the ordinary activities of the priesthood, but has as well secured every scrap of information possible to obtain concerning the Relief Societies and indeed all the other auxiliary organizations of the Church. Our debt to Historian Jenson cannot be measured in words. It is from him that we have obtained the charming old-time group of the original officers in the Copenhagen Relief Society which forms our frontispiece. FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN DENMARK Andrew Jenson On Thursday, Nov. 29, 1879, a special meeting was called in Copenhagen, Denmark, at the Saints' hall, Store Regnegade  26, to which all the sisters of the Copenhagen branch were specially invited. There was a fine turnout of sisters and the following named brethren met with them: Niels Wilhelmsen, president of the Scandinavian Mission; Carl C. Asmussen, president of the Copenhagen Conference, Andrew Jenson, president of the Copenhagen branch, and Herman F. Thorup, another missionary from Zion. The brethren present explained that since the early days of the Church the proper place for women in connection with the great Latter-day work had been recognized by the authorities of the Church, that Joseph Smith, the Prophet, himself organized the first Female Relief Society, in Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842, and that at the present time there were Relief Societies in nearly all the wards and branches of the Church in Zion. According to instructions received from the headquarters of the Church by the respective presidents of missions in different parts of the world it was considered wise also te organize Relief Societies in the larger branches of the Church abroad; and this already had been done in certain parts of America and Great Britain, where the English language was spoken. The movement now having become widespread it was deemed proper to organize a Relief Society in the oldest and largest branch of the Church in Denmark, as a commencement to a. Further move in the same direction in other branches of the mission. Consequently, the Copenhagen Branch Female Relief Society (Kjobenhavns Grens Kvindelige Hjelpeforening) was organized with the following officers: Johanne Christine Nordstrom, president, Christine Holm, first, and Annette Sophie Anderson, second counselor; Anna Elizabeth Nielsen and Christine Nielsen, secretaries, and Marie Jensen, treasurer. This society has had a continued existence ever since, has done a great deal of good and is still, as far as I know, in a flourishing condition. The first president, Sister Nordstrom, in due course of time, emigrated to Salt Lake City, where she died in the 18th. Ward, a faithful member of the Church. Sister Holm, the first counselor is also dead, but Sister Anderson, the second counselor, is still alive and resides in Murray, Salt Lake county, Utah. Sister Anna Elizabeth Nielsen, one of the secretaries, died several years ago as the wife of the late Jens Hansen of Spanish Fork, Utah. Christine Nielsen, the other secretary, married Carl Victor Anderson and now lives with her husband in Cincinnati, Ohio, where Brother Anderson presides over the branch. Sister Jensen, the treasurer, died in Utah several years ago. Soon after the organization of the Copenhagen Branch Society similar Societies were organized in the various branches of the Church in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Soon after the organization of the first Relief Society in  Denmark some of the larger branches in the country followed the example of the Msters in Copenhagen. Thus a Relief Society was organized in Aarhus Feb. 11, 1880, with the following officers: Johanne Marie Petersen, president; Anna Margrethe Petersen, first, and Rasmine Christensen, second counselor; Wilhelmine Jespersen, secretary and Maren Rasmussen, treasurer. This society has perhaps been the most active and successful of all the Relief Societies organized in Denmark. The Aarhus Branch consists of a number of quite well-to-do and highly respectable families of Saints, and as their benevolence corresponded with their financial standing the contributions paid into the treasury of the society has always been adequate to take care of the poor of the branch and otherwise assist in the promotion of the work of the Lord in that part of Denmark. A Relief Society was organized in Aalborg, Aug. 19, 1880, with the following officers: Mrs. Gjertrud Marie Jespersen. President; Line Christensen, first, and Else Kirstine Thomsen, second counselor; Jensine Martine Christensen, secretary and treasurer. This society, like the one in Aarhus, has had a continued existence since its first organization and has accomplished much good. A Relief Society was organized in Hjorring (Aalborg Conference) Dec. 12, 1880, with Trine Jensen as president and Ane Marie Jensen and Ane Johanne Jensen as counselors. This society only existed for a few years, as the small membership of the branch was inadequate to keep up a permanent organization. A Relief Society was organized in Odense (on the island of Fyen) May 29, 1881, with the following officers: Christine Jeppesen, president; Johanne Nielsen and Kiersten Nielsen, counselors; Mette Kirstine Hansine Nielsen, secretary, and Ane Nissen treasurer. This society is still in good running order. A Relief Society was organized in Randers (Aarhus Conference) April 10, 1881, with Ane Marie Pedersen as president and Julie Andersen and Else Christensen as counselors. This society has also had a continued existence ever since its first organization. There have been Relief Societies organized in some of the other smaller branches in Denmark such as Esbjerg, Silkeborg, etc., but as no records are on hand we are unable to give any account of these organizations. NORWAY The first Female Relief Society in Norway was organized by Elder Andrew F. Petersen in the Frederikstad Branch, in the fall of 1877, with Eva Constance Jacobsen as president and Oliane Larsen as first and Marie Guldbrandsen as second counselor. The  Society was more completely organized in 1880, and has had a continued existence ever since. A Relief Society was organized in Christiania by Conference President Christian Haagensen in January, 1880, with the following officers: Caroline Haagensen, president; Mathilde Diesen, first, and Hanne Dagsen, second counselor; Pauline Christiansen. Secretary. This society has been a flourishing organization ever since it first came into existence. It has ranked as one of the largest and most successful Relief Societies in the Church outside of the Stakes of Zion. It has been a great help to the missionaries who have labored in Christiania and immediate vicinity. Since its first organization the society has as a rule held 2+ public meetings and 24 working meetings annually. Its benevolent work in behalf of the poor has perhaps set an example to all other Relief Societies in the world. A Relief Society was organized in Namos (Trondhjem branch) July 13, 1880, by Elder Anthon L. Skanchy, with the following officers: Mrs. Christine Iversen, president and treasurer; Kjerstine Hassing, first, and Pauline Petersen, second counselor; Gerhardine Albrektsen and Anne C. Olsen, secretaries. This association only continued a few years, but as long as it existed it was the northernmost Latter-day Saints Relief Society in all the world. A Relief Society was organized in Laurvig, May 8, 1881, with the following officers: Karen Christensen, president; Dorthea Nielsen, first, and Inger Andrea Jacobsen, second counselor; Grethe Christiansen, secretary. A Relief Society was organized in Frederikshald, April 25, 1881, by Elder Andrew Amundsen, with Torine Mikkelsen as president, and Jensine Ericksen as first, and Pauline Poulsen as second counselor. This society, though small as to the number of its members, was still in existence as late as 1911. In Trondhjem, the northernmost cathedral city in the world, a Relief Society was organized Oct. 17, 1881, with Thea Petersen as president and Bergitte Erlandsen as first and Marie Poulsen as second counselor. This society is still in existence. Temporary Relief Society organizations have been organized in other parts of Norway, such as Drammen, Bergen, Stavanger, etc., but owing to the emigration of the members of these branches to Zion and the consequent reduction of membership, some of these societies only remained active a few years. ° SWEDEN In some of the branches of the Church in Sweden there were in an early day temporary organizations of sisters which perhaps in some degree performed the same benevolent labors  { as the more perfectly organized Female Relief Societies of a later date. But the first regularly organized Relief Society in Sweden was organized in Stockholm. (the capital of Sweden) in the spring of 1880 by Elder L. M. Oison, with the following officers: Lovisa Fagergren, president; Rosina Pettersson, first, and Sofia Lundberg, second counselors; Ebba Bjorling, secretary. This society, the largest and perhaps the most active of its kind in Sweden, has had a continued existence since 1880, and has been a great help not only to the poor in the Stockholm branch, but to the elders who have labored for the work of the Lord in that part of Sweden. A Relief Society was organized in Malmo (Skane Conference) Sept. 14, 1880, with the following officers: Bengta Nilsson, president; Kjersti Dahl, first, and Elna Forsberg second counselor; Carolina Liljerot, secretary, and Elna Nielson, -treasurer, Also this association has extended efficient help to the poor in that part of Sweden, besides assisting the missionaries to pay hall rent, etc. The society is still in good running order, A Relief Society was organized in the Uppland Branch (Stockholm Conference) Nov. 29, 1880. In Upsala, one of the most historic cities in Sweden, where there is a branch of the Church, a Relief Society was organized Nov. 29, 1880,. With 30 members, including a president. Two counselors, a secretary and four teachers. There is and has been for many years an active Relief Society in Goteborg, and also in other branches in Sweden Relief Societies have been organized from time to time, but in the absence of records we are unable to give any detailed account of their activities. In conclusion we may say that the good and faithful sisters in the Scandinavian countries have, from the very beginning, rendered most efficient help to the missionaries, who have labored to make the Scandinavian Mission one of the most suc~- cessful missions in the whole world. Independent of the Relief Society work, the sisters have in hundreds of instances paved the way for the elders to get into the homes of the people, in order to deliver their gospel message. Scores of the young girls, who have worked for wages, have been-the most punctual and faithful in paying ther tithes and donations, thus aiding in the further spread of the work of the Lord. In all the large branches also the sisters have been organized into branch choirs more numerously than the brethren and thus, by singing the sweet songs of Zion, they have been the means of impressing thousands of people who after enjoying the singing remained to listen to the gospel discourses delivered by the elders.