UTAH MEMORIAL COMMITTEE.

   NEARLY one hundred years ago the great
American, George Washington, left a be-
quest to his country of $25,000, which sum
was to be expended in founding an Ameri-
can University. It was his desire that the
highest education of the youth of America
should be upon American soil under
American influences. He wished to found
a university where the highest education
should be given in the principles underly-
ing true statsmanship. The bequest was
made with the most careful directions as to
carrying out his intentions.
The money, perhaps through neglect was
lost, but the idea remains a perpetual leg-
acy and incentive to the whole people of
the United States. It was not only a duty
to the memory of Washington to make his
thought a reality, but our highest duty to
ourselves and rising generations to take ad- 
vantage of his wise forethought. On the 
22nd of February exercises of a patriotic
nature will be held in all the schools of
Utah. On that day when all hearts will be
turned to the great character which towers
above all others like the lofty mountain
peak above the valley, may not the rush of
grateful thought be crystalized into a good
deed which will erect an enduring monument
to the memory of Washington! The Utah
committee on the George Washington mem-
orial, duly organized under the national
committee, request that a collection of
small sums of money be taken up on that
day in the public schools. Large sums are
not wanted or asked for. The penny or
the nickel brings with it the interest of the
child, and every individual contributing
helps to make a broad foundation upon
which the university shall rest. We appeal
to parents and to teachers to help to make
the collection indicate the patriotic spirit of
the people of Utah. We confidently believe
that the response to this appeal will be uni-
versal, and rest our cause in the hands of
the citizens of the State.
M. B. SALISBURY,
	Chairman.
C. M. ALLEN,
	Vice-Chairman.
HESTER HARKNESS,
	Secretary.
E. B. WELLS,
	Press Representative.


To live in the presence of great truths, to
be led by permanent ideals—that is what
keeps a man patient when the world ignores
him, and calm and unspoiled when the
world praises him.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

