RELIEF SOCIETY AT LOS ANGELOS.

	“THE poor you will always have with
you.” Perhaps that is what prompted the
sisters of the Relief Society to have a Fair.
The day was set for Monday, a week be-
fore Christmas; so accordingly an advertise-
ment was inserted in the morning papers
which read: Latter-day Saint’s Social and
Bazar to be held at 245 So. Spring St., Dec.
20, 1897. Delicious lunches served, pro-
gram rendered, some dancing engaged in.
Admission free.
	Promptly at 7 o'clock the doors were
opened. The large hall was very beauti-
fully decorated and showed the artistic skill
of those Saints and Elders who strove so
faithfully to make our first Fair a success.
	The hall was trimmed with pepper
boughs and smilax, Japanese lanterns were
suspended around the room, a profusion of
flowers and polen leaves lent their assistance
to present a pleasing appearance. One
corner of the hall was utilized by the sisters
of the Relief Society for the sale of their
many articles.
	’Twas indeed encouraging and gratifying
to the Elders to think that through the
labors of the missionaries such a promising
branch had been built up in this Calfornia
city.
	The beautifully arranged tables well filled
with fancy and useful articles all of which
was the work of the Saints in this branch
and donated for the benefit of the Fair,
showing the interest they manifest in the
work here. The evening’s exercises were
opened by a word of prayer from Elder
Harding, followed by a few interesting re-
marks from Brother Jacobson, president of
this branch. The program included recita-
tions, musical selections both instrumental
and vocal, solos, duetts and trios
	Off in one corner the game of fish pond 
was in progress, the liberal patronage it re-
ceived pronounced the game a great suc-
cess. There was a handsome doll and a
large oil painting on exhibition. In a
little room apart from the main hall the
young ladies dispensed refreshments in the
most approved manner.
	President Nye, whom we are always
glad to see, was with us. Those mission-
ary Elders present were Brothers Harding,
Bachman, Pratt, West and Athey. Toward
the close of the entertainment the sisters de-
cided to auction some of the articles yet un-
sold. Elder Pratt acted as auctioneer, and
he sold everything he could lay his hands
on without reserve, to the highest bidder;
but the sisters thought the bids not high
enough when dolls marked at two dollars
were sold for twenty-five cents, so called a
halt and Elder Pratt reluctantly gave up
his position.
	The Fair was a success both financially
and socially, a good spirit prevailed during
the whole evening and everybody returned
home feeling that our first attempt at a Fair
was a great success.
	Thanks to the untiring efforts of Sister
E. Woollacott, president of the Society, 
and her two counselors, Sisters Rand and
Hedberg.
