"NO MAN KNOWETH."

	IN the midst of the excitement that pre-
vails not only in the United States and the
Congress thereof but elsewhere throughout
many foreign countries, one cannot help
feeling how uncertain the near future is to
the world of mankind. At one moment
war seems imminent and perhaps inevitable
then there seems a lull and a tendency to-
wards peace negotiations, and before quiet
can settle more news comes of commotion
and turmoil and more outrages in Cuba,
and it would indeed seem "the world is
turning upside down," if not quite turned.
Any one with a prophetic nature must be
forcibly reminded of predictions concerning
the war that have been foretold would take
place in the last days, and also calamities of


various kinds, and therefore those who be-
lieve these things are watching carefully
the signs of the times and are praying
earnestly that the Lord will over-rule all
things according to His divine will and to
further His purposes in the earth.
	It is ardently to be desired that the Lat-
ter day Saints follow the counsel of the ser-
vants of the Lord in all these matters and
surely the counsel given at the recent con-
ference ought to be a guide to those who
are anxious to keep the commandments of 
God. The Saints know that they shoul
refrain from all evil and wicked thoughts
and desires, but if called to go to battle for
their country they would undoubtedly be
as ready to stand by the stars and stripes as
any men in the United States. The “Mor-
mon” people have never been accused of cow-
ardice, and they have proved in times past
that the call of their country should be
obeyed whatever might be the circumstanc
es, as in the call when the Nauvoo battalion
was fitted out at a time of great emergency
when traveling from Nauvoo across the
country five hundred men left their famil-
ies homeless, to go to Mexico. This event
has passed into history. But for the sake of
humanity it is to be hoped that peace will
spread her white wings over the country
and that under the shadow of her wings
Cuba may find refuge from war and blood-
shed, famine and disease and all the attend-
ant evils that follow a relentless and blood-
thirsty foe. 
	Yet no man knoweth what shall be the
consequence of these uprisings, and the ex-
citement that prevails at the present time
and will not seemingly be settled by arbi-
tration or armistice.


