SOME OF THE SECTS OF THE FIRST
			CENTURY. 
	AMONG the first we read of Epicurus. 
The Epicurians believed the world arose 
from chance; that the soul was mortal; that 
pleasure was sufficient to live for. 
	The Academics denied the possibility of 
arriving at truth and certainty; held it un-
certain whether God existed or not, or 
whether the soul was mortal or survived
the body. 
	The god of Aristotle was a bei [-] regard-
less of human affairs, such a god people had 
little reason to love or fear. 
	The god of the Stoics had a little more of 
majesty. He was described as a corporeal 
being and subject to fate. 
	Plato seems to have exceeded all the other 
philosophers in wisdom and reason. He
believed the world to be governed by an 
independent, powerful and intelligent God, 
and he taught men what to fear and what 
to hope for after death. Yet his doctrine 
rested on very slender foundations. 
	In Egypt arose another sect called the 
Eclectic. They held Plato in the highest 
esteem but they modified his doctrine and 
incorporated what they pleased from other
philosophers.
	Many other sects flourished in Palestine 
at the birth of our Savior. They were 
known under the names of Eseenes, Gali-
leans, Herodians, Nazarites, Scribes and 
Publicans. There was also the Jewish and
Samaritan. Yet the Jewish had lost much 
of its primitive character. In the New 
Testament we read of the Pharisees and the 
Sadducers. The Pharisees disregarded in 
ternal purity and sought for popular ap-
plause. The Sadducees discarded all future 
reward and punishments.
 	The Essenes, a fanatic and superstitious
tribe, made piety to consist in holy indo-
lence, and thus they severed themselves
from society. 
	Our Savior and His twelve apostles, the 
Christian church was founded, as we are 
aware, at Jerusalem, but the ambassadors 
of Christ traveled over a great part of the 
world. A number of churches founded by


them are mentioned in the Acts of the
Apostles.
   The history of these sects until the time
of our Savior is very obscure indeed, partly from the deficiency of ancient records, and 
partly from the ignorance and hostility of 
those who have written concerning them.
   After the decease of the apostles arose the 
Gnostics, who claimed ability to restore
to mankind the lost knowledge of the true
and Supreme God, and announced the over-
throw of that church which Christ and His
associates had set up. Thus we find that
different sects then existed as today,
and opinions were just as varied as now.
E.H.L.


