APPRECIATION.

Editor Exponent.
	I HAVE had the pleasure of a casual peru-
sal of your book of poems entitled “Mus-
ings and Memories..” and although unsoli-
cited allow me to say in brief, that the com-
mon eulogy that it “fills a long felt want”
but faintly expresses my appreciation of
your musing and ever reflecting, useful
mind. Your dedication though brief is a
volume in itself. That spirit of Elijah, so
to speak, that binds kindred “for all the
years to come,” I fear is too little appreci-
ated by many Latter-day Saints, in fact I
much question whether any of us fully
comprehend the greatness of that eternal
union by adoption to the fountain of our
being; and as to the world, although they
are inspired to look after the records of their
dead, as a rule they know not why.
	Your work is an everyday home compan-


ion adapted to all ages and conditions and
particularly interesting to the young and
hopeful, of all ages of those who in the hour
of trial need comfort to give them strength
to persevere in the right under the most ab-
ject circumstances.
	Speaking personally the first line of the
first poem carried me back and was a re-
minder of many scenes of my childhood
and rambles “in the meadows where the
cowslips spring,’’ in fact those cowslips were
the incentive to my roving through the
green meadows in anticipation of a deli-
cious dish of greens for dinner. 
	But I must leave this subject lest some of
your readers suspect that I am longing for
the “leeks and onions of Egypt” well they
grow down there too and of course I
thought of them and how in my promen-
ades I mistook a young elebone for the
former, and but for a neighbor’s child pass-
ing just as I was stooping to pluck it I
should have eaten the poisonous herb and
not been here to relate the incident nor how
much I think of your very interesting and
instructive, work. It commends itself to all
who love the muses.
	A sixty-five year old Latter-day Saint.
						DANIEL TYLER.
Beaver City, Utah, Feb. 9, 1898.


