[Column 2]
complied with its principles.
	I remember how the remarks of the
Elders would impress themselves upon my
mind when refering to the restoration of
the Gospel and its gifts and blessings.
What faith true men have, I thought. They
promise me every blessing my heart has de-
sired for so many years past if I will go
down into the waters of baptism and re-
ceive a remission of my sins. They then
promise me the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands, which shall be my instructor
and comforter through life. These great
and glorious promises deserve my strict at-
tention. This was the first time in my life I
had ever been promised the same blessings
and privileges that were enjoyed by the
Former-day Saints, and I assure you my
heart leaped for joy. I almost feared the
promises too great to be true; but today I
have a testimony which I have received
from God in consequence of my throwing
aside my pride and obeying the sacred prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel. The
power of the Priesthood manifested under
the hands of His authorized servants upon
my little children has been sufficient to con-
vince the whole world, if they would but
lay aside their prejudice and seek the Spirit
of the Lord to guide them into the only
true path of life and salvation.
	I remember of being so low in sickness
on one occasion that the doctor had
given me up to die, but the Elders came in
and laid hands upon me, and before their
hands were taken off my head all swelling
disappeared and the pain left me. Not
many weeks ago my husband met with a
serious accident while at work in the coal
pit, some of his bones being squeezed out of
place. People who saw him and under-
stood what he had passed through ex-
pressed themselves as believing him to be
in such a condition that he would never be
able to work any more. Again the power
of the Lord was manifested. Just as soon
as he was brought home the Elders laid
their hands upon him and anointed him
with oil; in a week he was back at work
again.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the year 1880, and dur-
ing that time all the blessings promised me
by the Elders whom I first met have been
granted.
	May the blessings of the Lord shine up-
on the women of Utah, and make them
bright and shining lights is the prayer of
Your sister in the Gospel,
JANE WILLIAMS.
Lancashire, England, Feb. 28, 1898.


EVERY goal in England and Wales now
has a Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society
working in connection with it.
	THE REAL TROUBLE.—When her Majes-
ty the Queen was at Balmoral some time
ago she visited an aged cottager, and on
leaving said, “You will now, I hope, be no
longer afraid of me, and I shall expect you
to pay me a visit.” “Ah ma’am,” the old
woman replied, “its not yersel’ I’m fricht-
ened at; it’s them gran’ servants!”


