[Column 2]
held in the Latter-day Saints meeting house Oct,
28, comforting and consoling remarks being offer-
ed by Elder William Fotheringham, President C.
D. White and Bishop George Mumford, after
which they were followed to their last resting
place in the city cemetery by a large cortege of
relatives and friends.
	Sister Hamilton was the mother of six children,
three sons and three daughters, and had thirty-
two grandchildren. A son and a daughter and
ten grandchildren preceded her to the spirit world.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native town,
emigrated from Philadelphia to Utah and s[-]ttled
in Beaver in 1861. She became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized in the
latter place. She was a teacher for a number of
years and was ever ready and willing to assist in
any and every cal[-]; and altho’ she had re[-]ided
the last few years of her life with her children in
various places, she frequently visited her daughter
who still resided here, but was called away by
the hand of death five months previous to her
mother’s demise. In all of her visits she was
gladly welcomed by her sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety where she had labored so faithfully, her
name being always retained on the roll. She
passed through trying circumstances but never
complained that her lot was hard. When her
husband was called to part with a plural wife who
left an infant a few days old she took the little
babe and cared for it as her own, and that child,
now a young man, feels her loss as an own
mother.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His alwise
profidence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Sister Agnes Hamilton, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Beaver
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved children and grandchildren in this sad
hour of trial and bereavement.
	RESOLVED, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hears that love
for her which she so truly won.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, a copy be placed on
the Society record and one be sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication,
			JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
			ALICE M. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.


