[Column 2]
“Is life worth the living?” the poor pauper cries—
With cravings of hunger and deep smothered 
	sighs,
So little to cheer him, so many desires, 
Neglected and weary he often inquires—
Poor broken spirit! “Is life worth the living?”

“Is life worth the living?” the epicure yawns,
While the sycophant near him insipidly fawns
With satiated tastes and o’er-clouded brains,
They drink and carouse, on their ill-gotten gains,
Ah, well one may ask “Are such lives worth
	living?”

‘Life’s not worth the living,” the pessamist thinks,
As he finds to what depths humanity sinks,
The dark, cloudy side is all that he sees, 
Pain, sickness and sorrow and mental disease,
So sagely concludes “Life’s not worth the liv-
	ing.”

“But life is worth living,” the optimist writes,
Every hour is giving the sweetest delights,
this beautiful world! has its sunshine and 
	flowers;
And science and truth are increasing the powers
Of brain, heart and soul: True! life’s worth the
	living.”

“This world is so pretty!” the little child lisps,
As she smells the new hay and plays with its 
	wisps,
The songs of the birds, and flowers are sweet,
And the green grass is cool and soft for my feet,
While God up in Heaven these blessings is giv-
	ing.”

“Life is worth living!” the youth now exclaims,
As he thinks of the future and makes lofty aims;
“I’ll try to be good and noble and great,
Prove faithful and true to my second estate, 
And make the world better because of my living.”

“Life is worth living!” says the maiden in bliss,
As she bends her fair head for her lover’s first
	kiss.
“The earth is o’er spread with roseate hue,
The world is all love, the sky is so blue!
And ne’er did life seem so much worth the
	living!”

“Life is worth living!” says husband and wife, 
As they walk hand in hand the journey of life; 
“We’ll share every sorrow and joy as they come,
We will try to bring sunshine into our home, 
And rear sons and daughters worthy of living.”

“Yes life is worth living!" the mother replies, 
As she looks in the depths of her baby’s brown 
	eyes.
“I must polish this jewel and make it so bright 
That ’twill shine to the world with radiant light,
And make all men feel that life is worth living.”

‘Life is worth living!” are the words that he gave
As he tottered so near to the brink of the grave. 
“I’ve lived ninety years, seen life’s ups and downs,
But with all of its turmoil, its cares and its frowns
I continue to think that life is worth living.”

Ah, live’s worth the living! though drear it of
	seems,
And our seasons of joy are like fast fleeling
	dreams.
The infinite bliss of a being on earth;
With the exquisite hope of a Celestial birth!
Help us bear all its cares and make life worth
	the living. 

[Column 3]
“Yes life is worth living," the Christian declares
“With all of its trials, its sins and its snares,
For through stern experience wisdom is gained, 
A triumph o’er self and the world is obtained, 
And mankind are secured a life everlasting.”
