[Column 2]
went down the mountain road, passing
lumber teams, horsemen etc., from whom
they gained some information, until they
reached the Casas Grandes river where they
found the horses the rascals had been riding
and packing, including the large horse.
The officers stationed guards at every point
and had every house searched in and around
the city of Casas Grandes. We earnestly
pray that the officers will succeed in captur-
ing the assassins and secure their punish-
ment.
	Sister Agnes was born in Glasgow, Lan-
arkshire, Scotland, Sep. 8, 1838, her par-
ents were Alexander and Janette Aird. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864, crossed the
plains in ox teams and settled in Salt Lake
City. In 1866 she became the wife of
Alexander F. McDonald who is well known
throughout Utah, Arizona and Old Mexico.
She then moved to Provo, thence to St.
George, Utah, thence to Mesa City, Arizona,
and thence to Colonia, Juarez, Mexico,
where she resided until 1895, when she
came to this place where as in former places
she has lived, she has done a great work
and gained the good will of all who knew
her. On January 5, 1896, she was chosen
president of the Relief Society, which posi-
tion [-]he has ably filled, showing her sterl-
ing worth and qualifications to fill the
position.
	Her funeral services were held at 10 a.
m. Friday Feb. 25. The speakers were
Patriarch Henry Lunt, James Jensen,
Bishop George W. Hardy, B. L. Johnson
and L. T. Whetten, who gave good instruc-
tion and words of encouragment. Her re-
mains were then placed on a bier and borne
by eight brothers holding the priesthood,
followed by a procession of carriages, wag-
ons and horsemen.
	The sawmills, shinglemills and all kinds
of labor were suspended and a goodly num-
ber of brethren and sisters came from
Pacheco to attend the services, showing re-
spect and sympathy to our beloved sister
and for her devoted husband and children:
the former being absent on very important
business in El Paso, Texas, was not able to
get here in time for the funeral.
PHEBE I. ALLRED, (Cor.)
	Colonia, Chihuahua, Mexico Feb. 26.


