[Column 2]
verbal resignation as director and treasurer.
On motion the resignation was unanimously
accepted. On motion Sister Helen V.
Lyon was elected a director.
	The following names were suggested by
Bishop M. S. Woolley: Eliza Barton as
president; Martha B. Taylor as first counsel-
or; Frances L. Castleton as second counsel-
or; Mary A. Tuddenham as secretary;
Helen V. Lyon as treasurer. On motion
the above named persons were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke relative to
the mission and organization of the Soci-
ety as contemplated by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and solciited the attendance of the
younger and middle aged women at the
meetings. Made mention of the fact that
Sister Eliza R. Snow was about thirty-
eight years of age when the Society was or-
ganized by the prophet.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said he had
been invited by the Bishop to attend this
meeting as there was contemplated changes
in the Society, and feeling an interest in all
the branches was present. He had been
called upon on several occasions to adjust
differences that existed between the Bishop
and officers of some branches of the Relief
Society. Thought the sisters should be
given all the liberty possible io magnify
their office. The sisters in return should
gather the strength of the Priesthood and
be in harmony with the Bishop and counsel-
ors of the ward. Cautioned the sisters in
their meetings relative to the gift of tongues
and thought we should confine ourselves
within the proper limits and seek for the
Spirit of God in our gatherings.
	Counselor H. J. Foulger referred to the
past labors of Sister Ann O Burt as presi-
dent, the difficulties the sisters met with
when first organized, and the means em-
ployed by her and Sister Allen in raising a
store on the block to benefit the Society.
Moved that a hearty vote of thanks be
tendered her for her past labors, and that
the blessing of the Almighty might rest up-
on her.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered Sis-
ters Reynolds and Mulholland for their
past efficient labors in the Society, all of
which were unanimous. The Doxology
was sung and meeting closed with benedic-
tion by Bishop M. S. Woolley.
	Meeting at the residence of Sister Eliza
Barton at 5.30 p. m. Sister Barton through
illness was unable to attend the meeting at
the Society hall.


