LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday Feb. 19, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Singing “How will the Saints rejoice to
tell.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne quoted the saying of the
Savior that “If ye are not one ye are not
mine.” She thought the Saints should all
be united in everything they attempt to do
and said we all had a portion of the Spirit
of God, that we brought it with us when
we left the Lord’s presence: it was this that
prompted us to do any good thing and it
remained with us whether we used it to do
good or not. Said it took bravery to be a
Latter-day Saint for we had much to over-
come, but when we kept His command-
ments no good thing either in heaven or on
earth would be witheld from us. She felt
we were indeed a blessed people. In a little
company recently where President Woodruff
was present she heard him say that we
should strive to do the works of Latter-day
Saints, that we would not fall by the way-
side, Urged those present to do those
works and talked very plainly to the Saints.
	Sister Annie O. Brown said she felt it
was necessary to do the works of God, and
knew we should feel like brothers and sis-
ters to one another. The Gospel was every-
thing to her, bore a strong testimony and
felt that this was all she lived for.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the ter-
rible things happening in the world of
which we read, also of the signs of the times.
She felt we could not help asking ourselves
the question “Will we be able to stand the
test?” We could only trust in God; when
we were in trouble it was then He was the
nearest to us. Spoke of the condition of the
world today, said that people scarcely had
any faith in one another and very little in
God; they feared greatly something but did
not know what; knew this was one of the
signs of the times.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony to
the truth of tithing, and told how by pay-
ing her tithing she was greatly blest.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she en-
joyed these meetings and the sweet spirit

