	MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON has
published a book of reminiscences of her
long and eventful life under the taking title
of “Eighty Years and More.” Mrs. Stan-
ton has dedicated the book to Susan B.
Anthony, her steadfast friend for half a
century.
	The author’s vivid descriptions of
places and people as well as incidents are
given in a charming style and true to nature
and to facts, told in such a characteristic
way that one is impressed with the matter
because it is so natural as to appeal direct to
the heart of the reader,
	Mrs. Stanton was born at Johnstown, N.
Y., and was the daughter of Daniel Cady,
a distinguished lawyer and judge—and who
was elected to Congress the year of the little
Elizabeth’s birth. In the book she writes of
the fact thus: “Perhaps the excitement of
a political campaign, in which my mother
took the deepest interest, may have had an
influence on my prenatal life and given me
the strong desire that I have always felt to
participate in the rights and duties of
government.”
	Mrs. Stanton’s mother was Margaret
Livingston, the daughter of Colonel James
Livingston who was active in the war of the
Revolution, and was stationed at West
Point when Arnold made the attempt to be-
tray that stronghold into the hands of the
enemy. “In the absence of General Wash-
ington and his superior officer he took the
responsibility of firing into the Vulture, a
suspicious looking British vessel that lay at 
anchor near the opposite bank of the Hud-
son river. It was a fatal shot for Andre the
British spy, with whom Arnold was then
consummating his treason.” The vessel
thus disabled hastened away leaving Andre
with his papers to be captured while Arnold
made his escape through the lines before
his treason was suspected.
	Mrs. Stanton’s chapter on Motherhood is
one of the sweetest in her book, so perfectly
natural that every mother who has had a
similiar experience, (and there are many)
will read it with intense interest and say
“exactly so.” All along the pages are
names familiar to the public—poets, philos-
ophers, heroes, editors, reformers both men
and women. One chapter devoted to
Susan B. Anthony is delightfully full of the
originality so like this beautiful Quaker
spinster. Mrs. Stanton quotes Lord Bacon’s
saying of unmarried men and adds it is
equally applicable to women, and gives this
grand culmination to the thought:

