[Column 2]
evolved itself. She must have been a very
orderly woman, for rising quickly she found
paper and pencil and in the absolute dark-
ness of the night put the words on paper
without seeing what she wrote; and this
was the birth of "Mine eyes have seen the
glory of the coming of the Lord."
	None of our national airs are more dra-
matic in their origin than "The Star Spang-
led Banner" which it has always seemed to
me should be our national Hymn. At the
time of the attack on Fort McHenry, made
by Admiral Cockburn Sep. 18. 1814,
Francis Scott Wey was held a prisoner in
a little boat moored to the commanders
vessel; through the whole day and night
exposed to the fire from the shore, he
watched the flag on the Fort, and at break
of day on the 14th he saw it waving, "our
flag was still there." Then taking an old
letter from his pocket and using a barrel
head for a table, he wrote at fever heat the
poem which he called "The Defense of
Fort McHenry." It was set to the music
of "Anacreon in Heaven," an opera in two
acts by Cherubine. In 1832 on a dismal
day in February while looking over some
German music books, Dr. Samuel F. Smith
found a tune which from its simple and
natural movement seemed particularly suited
to childrens' voices, a subject he was then
greatly interested in. He noted it as hav-
ing a patriotic swing and felt inspired on
the spot to write a patriotic hymn of his
own, which he did in just half an hour's
time. He did not know at the time that
the tune he adapted to his hymn "My
Country 'tis of Thee," was the national
British anthem "God save the Queen."
	"God save the King" (or Queen) has,
by the way, been the subject of endless
discussion. It is said by some, in the be-
ginning to have been a Jacobite song re-
ferring to James II., "The King over the
water." The words "Send him victorious,"
seem to imply an absent king not the one
already in England but one far away, to
whom the singers were loyal in his evil
fortune. It is believed to have been written
by Henry Corey, who lived in six reigns
and who also wrote "Sally in our Alley."
	The French national anthem, "La Mar-
sellaise," which is ringing full of patriotic
frenzy, was written words and music in a
single night and won for its author literary
immortality. The author who was Rouget
de Lisle, a young officer of engineers at
Strasburg in 1792, was asked by Deitrick
the mayor of the town to write a martial
song to be sung on the departure of six
hundred volunteers to the army of the
Rhine. Lisle composed the song that night
in a fervor of feeling, music and words at
the same time; sometimes the words came
first, sometimes the music; but he wrote
nothing. In the morning the chant came
to him like the echo of a dream and he
wrote it down, words and music and car-
ried to it Deitrick. In an hour the listening
assemblage knew the song of the nation
was born.
	Many nations claim "Yankee Doodle,"—
In the time of Charles I., it was known in


