IN MEMORIAM.

	ON the evening of Nov. 4, 1897, Sister
Kapala Pahupu departed this life in the
sixtieth year of her age. She died suddenly
without any apparent suffering.
	Deceased was a very faithful sister; at the
time of her death was a teacher in the 
Iosepa Relief Society, also an officer in the
Y. L. M. I. A.. She was president of the
Hilo Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands
until 1888, when she resigned her position
to emigrate to Utah, having lost both hus-
band and child on the islands and being
alone she made her home with
her sister, Mrs. Marla MaKaula and
her husband, from her arrival to the time of
her death. They assisted her in performing
her Temple work at Logan just previous to
coming with the first colony to Iosepa Aug.
28, 1889.
	Sister Kapala was in every way fully
prepared for death, and the loss to our little
settlement of one so faithful and true is
really the only regret we can feel. She
was strong and healthy up to the last and
seemed to enjoy attending a little garden of
her own in which she raised fine vegetables,
strawberries, melons and fruit and also
flowers; and she delighted to gather some
of the first and choicest and bring them as a
love offering to those she liked best. Many
a pleasant little surprise of this kind she has
brought us in the early summer mornings.
She was the most graceful swimmer I ever
saw.
	She attended all of the meetings punctu-
ally and was a logical and dignified speaker,
never missing the opportunity of bearing
her testimony or speaking on the principles
of the Gospel, yet was withal modest and re-
tiring. All who knew her loved her for her
worth, she was indeed one of earth’s noblest
women. She ever labored faithfully both
temporally and spiritually and had her nice
linen burial robes all ready and looked
when laid out just like one in a graceful
sleep. She was a fine needlewoman and
was one of the most diligent in working 
upon the pioneer quilt the Iosepa Relief
Society presented to President Woodruff
during his illness this last summer.
			EMILY G. CLUFF, Pres.
