A DREAM.

	A LO[-]G, long time ago when fairies and
brownies were flourishing there was in this
world a large meeting, and among them
was the fairy Opaline who decided to visit
the earth accompanied by her faithful
brownie, Amethyst. The aim of her trip
was to distribute among women a special
gift for each nationality. Amethyst bore
the casket containing the precious treasure.
On reaching the earth Amethyst issued the
call for a young woman of each nation to
appear before the fairy, and soon the throne
of Opaline was surrounded by a crowd of
women.
	The good fairy explained kindly that her
wish was to bestow upon each a token of
which she might be proud. "I cannot
give to all the same gift," said she, "but
you will appreciate them better, because if
all were uniform they would become mono-
tonous." A few words more and the speech
was ended and the distribution began.
	The first young woman to bow before
the throne of the good fairy was a Spanish
girl, and she received the gift of hair so
black and so long that without difficulty
she could wrap herself therein as in a mantle.
	The Italian came bowing and was given
eyes so sparkling and so ardent as to com-
pare with the eruption of Vesuvius by night.
	A Turkish beauty followed and upon her
was bestowed the roundness of the moon,
and a smoothness like the bird's feathers.
	Next came a Swedish lady and received a
complexion as fair as an Aurora Borealis.
	Then the German girl approached and the
kind fairy gave her teeth as perfect as her
own and gifted her with a sensible heart,
deeply disposed to love.
	To the Russian she gave a queenly bearing.
Afterward came the Persian. Opaline
put gaiety on her lips, wit and common
sense in her head and kindness in her heart.
	The casket being empty the fairy made
ready to fly again to the upper regions,
when a beautiful girl approached blushing
and taking her by her gossamer tunic said,
"Did you forget me, dear fairy, that you
gave me nothing?" The sweet, musical
voice charmed the fairy, who turned and
said kindly, "And who are you?" "I am
the American." "Oh, said Opaline, "you
were too near—I did not see you, and now
I have nothing left to give." But without
a moment's hesitation she ordered Amethyst
to recall those who had been gifted and
when they were assembled she said, "I am
guilty of a great forgetfulness but you can
help me to rectify my mistake. I have en-
tirely forgotten your American sister, and I
will be pleased if each of you will give to
her a portion of your gift. It will be a
small loss for you and will greatly compen-
sate her for the disappointment I have
caused." Well as all were very grateful to
the good fairy they could not refuse, and
with the exquisite grace which ordinarily
all happy people possess, they came one
after another to the American girl and gave,
one some of her splendid hair, another
some roses from her complexion, another
some of her gaiety and brightness; all were
generous, and in conclusion the American,
at first unseen, was by this act of partaking
better gifted than any of her comrades.
	And this is the reason why among all the
civilized nations the American woman
wears on her head the crown of beauty and
in her own country her name is written in
letters of gold in the annals of history.
