BY EMMA JENSON.
	THE opportunities of obtaining a liveli-
hood in native style on Samoa are very
good. It requires next to no effort at all
to obtain the necessary food. Taro or kalo
grows with but very little help in the shape
of cultivation and this is the staple article of
food on the group. Breadfruit is picked
from the trees as it ripens for several months
during the year, and cocoanut is always to
be had. Its flesh is used by the natives in
the preparation of many of their “rare
dishes.” When the breadfruit is out of
season and the people have neglected to
plant taro they are sometimes compelled to
subsist for months together on bananas. At
different times in past years when the is-
lands have been visited by hurricanes which
have blown down the breadfruit and cocoa-
nut and often pulled up or blown down the
trees themselves, the people have been re-
duced to a point of starvation until they
could plant and reap bananas, or until the
next crop of breadfruit would ripen. The
group of Manua are an exception to this,
here the people always keep a year’s supply
on hand and by this precaution have al-
ways escaped famine.
	Neither fermented nor distilled liquors 
were used by the Pacific Islanders before
the appearance of the whites on their shores
but they drank an infusion of the roots of
the awa plant, and that is still the favorite
drink on Samoa. The awa root is first
chewed by a certain class of young maidens,
pure virgins, of which there are one or
more in each village, after which the masti-
cated morsels are placed in a wooden bowl
and water poured upon them. The infusion
is then strained through a mesh of the awa
(cyperus) fibers and is then ready for drink-
ing. Its effects are narcotic and stupifying
and effects the legs more particularly, for
after the natives have drunk their fill of awa
they simply fall over from their seats on the 
mats on which they have been sitting while
drinking, and sleep out the effects of the
drug, until which it would be impossible
for them even to stand up for a moment.
	Speaking of the chewing of the awa root
by the Samoa woman it may be mentioned
that they are able to put their mouths to
sundry other kinds of peculiar usage. Thus
the Samoa mother always feeds her baby
from her own mouth to that of her child.
When she has to fill a lamp with coal oil
she generally fills her mouth with the oil
and then emits it into the vessel; she fills a
bottle in the same way. If a feminine
quarrel is going on the almost perfect teeth
with which nearly every native is blessed
are brought into terrible requisition, and
when a woman once buries her teeth in the
flesh of her opponent she is like the terrier,
loth to let go her grip until the enemy is
partly reduced to sausage meat. If a wo-
man in Samoa finds her husband untrue to
her she does not seek revenge on him par-
ticularly, but on his victim, whose nose the
wronged wife bites off if she can get the
opportunity; consequently noseless women
are frequently met with in Samoa.
	For a cheap and easy living Tonga per-
haps stands ahead of any group of islands in
the Pacific. The inhabitants there could
subsist for months on what nature herself
provides for them, without any exertion on
their part except to pick the fruit and eat.
And this naturally makes the natives of the

