[Column 2]
“Old songs are best,” writes one of the
poets: be that as it may, we know some old
songs are ever beautiful and bonny; and
“Annie Laurie” was ever and always will
be a favorite. It was a love poem address-
ed by William Douglas to the eldest daugh- 
ter of Sir Robert Laurie of Maxwelton; but
unfortunately this sweet poem so full of
delicate flattery failed to touch Miss Annie’s
heart, for she later became Mrs. Ferguson.
The music to which it is now sung is the
composition of Lady John Scott. 
	Robert Burns wrote only the second and
third stanzas of “Auld Lang Syne,”
though he retouched them all, there were
three earlier versions. The air to which it
is sung is an old Lowland melody, and
was selected by Mr. George Thompson.
	‘Comin’ thro’ the Rye” is another old
Scotch song retouched by Burns; it refers to
the fording of the little river Rye, when it
was the custom of the lads to exact a toll of
kisses from the lasses they met on the step-
ping stones in crossing over.
	For fifty years the authorship of “Old
Robin Gray” was a secret limited to the family
the one who wrote it, Lady Anna Lindsay,
she wrote ballads to wile away weary, and
lonely hours. Robin was a herdsman on
her father’s estate.
	“Rory O’ More” was written by Samuel
Lover as a protest against the coarseness of
the ordinary Irish song, full of hurra’s and
whack fol de rols. At a social gathering he
expressed his disgust and was asked taunt-
ingly if he could do better. “Rory
O’More” was the answer to the taunt.
	Perhaps in the whole range of songs, old
and new, none is more popular than that
sweet and plaintive air “Robin Adair.”
The real Robin in whose honor the words
were written was a native of County Wick-
low, Ireland, and a descendant of the Des-
mond Fitz Geralds, the mighty Geraldines.
His father was made a Knight Baronet after
the battle of Boyne. While Robin (or
Robert) was studying medicine in Dublin
he got in some scrape and having little
money and few friends, he thought the best
way out of it was to go away; so he set out
on foot for London. The roads were in a
terrible condition and he had not gone far
when he came upon a carriage which had
been overturned. The owner and occupant
of the vehicle, a fashionable young lady,
was slightly hurt and greatly alarmed.
Adair at once offered his services, attended
the lady’s hurt, helped to right the carriage
and was invited by the lady to take a seat
in it, as her protector. Arriving in Lon-
don she presented him with a fee of a hun-
dred guineas and invited him to come after
to the house. Robin Adair was wise and
energetic; he studied assiduously and soon
with the assistance of his patroness acquired
a good practice at the best end of town. He
was frequently at dances given by this
young lady and others, and one night at a
party found that his partner was the second
daughter of the Earl of Albermarle, Lady
Caroline Keppel. It was a case of mutual
love at first sight. Her kinsfolk were
stupified with amazement and she was
soon sent abroad to be cured of her folly,
but without avail, and she fell very ill.
About 1750 when at Bath for her health,
she wrote the verses now so popular and
adapted them to the air of “Eileen Aroon,”
which doubtless Robin had often sung to
her. At last the separation from Adair and
the importunities of her relatives caused
her to become so ill that the doctors des-

[Column 3]
paired of her life and finally the union of
the pair was consented to. 
	Shortly after their marriage Adair was
appointed Inspector General of Military
Hospitals, and later made Surgeon General,
Kings’ Sergeant and Surgeon of Chelsea
Hospital. Good fortune did not spoil him
and he worked hard at his profession. He
treated the Duke of Glouscester so success-
fully that the king offered to make him a
Baronet, but he declined the honor. Adored
and admired by all who knew him he lived
to the age of eighty and died lamented
most deeply. Lady Caroline died rather
early and her husband, except when ob-
liged on state occasions to put on a court
costume, wore mourning for his love till he
died in 1790. He was buried with her in
the family vault. Their only son, the
Right Hon. Sir Robert Adair, had a bril-
liant career as a diplomatist and died in
1855.
	“The Last Rose of Summer” one of the
peerless Patti’s favorite songs, was among
the most popular of Thomas Moore’s Irish
melodies. The air, which is a very old one,
formerly known as the “Groves of Blarney”
is found in the collection of the music of
Ireland two hundred years old.
	“Home Sweet Home,” written by John
Howard Payne an American and a homeless
exile and wanderer, brought the prima
donna who first sung it a rich husband,
the publisher of the song ten thousand dol-
lars and the author fame only. In 1823,
Charles Kemble bought from Payne a num-
ber of plays and among them one entitled
“Clari, the Maid of Milan.” In extreme
poverty in an attic in Paris, Payne received
the order to change the play into an opera;
he did so and wrote for it this song, which
was an instant success.
	“Listen to the Mocking Bird” was writ-
ten for an old colored man named Dick
Milburn, who was blind and who used to
wander about the streets of Philadelphia
whistling like a mocking bird. It at once
caught the public ear and paid its publish-
ers one hundred thousand dollars. The
author was Septimus Winner who wrote
under his pen name of Alice Hawthorne.
	“Rock Me to Sleep Mother” was anoth-
er song which brought little to its author,
who received five dollars for the poem.
Published by the Saturday Evening Post it
brought the publishers many thousand dol-
lars and was claimed by a dozen persons,
but the real writer was Elizabeth Akers
(now Allen.) The song was written in
Italy.
	“Nancy Lee,” of world Wide popularity
was the work of an hour, words and music.
Frederick Weatherly while waiting for a
dilatory pupil wrote the song, words and
music. Its popularity was dimmed for a
time from the fact that the sailors of the
“Princess Alice” were singing the song
when the ship went down.
	“Then You’ll Remember Me” by Rolfe,
was written as a solo in the “Bohemian
Girl,” first presented in 1844.
	Mrs. Emma Willard an American teach-
er and author while on a ship coming from
Europe wrote “Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep.” The air to which it is now sung
was composed by Joseph P. Knight, an
Englishman.
	Of the songs which reach the heart none
are more popular than “Ben Bolt” revived
by Du Maurler in his novel entitled “Tril-
by.” Dr. Thomas Dunn English wrote
the song for the New York Union at the


