[Column 2]
To expenses.......................32.90
On hand..........................44.65
	Total.......................$529.35
	Of the above receipts we received from
the proceeds of a fair we held under the
auspices of the Relief Society, $393.05.
	Our society is in a favorable condition for
doing good work for the coming year, all
being as well as it appears now.
ELIZA HALES, Sec.
MARIAN, CASSIA CO., IDAHO.
	Although the Relief Society of Cassia
Stake has not been heard of through the
columns of your paper for some time, never-
theless they have been alive to their duties.
	At a conference just held at Oakley, as
also at the one held three months previous-
ly, the verbal reports of the various repre-
sentatives showed the members to be mani-
festing increased interest and diligence. A
number of the branches hold alternately
with the monthly testimony meetings what
we term a literary meeting, the exercises in
which call for more or less reading and
study on the part of the members.
	The statistical and financial reports read
at the last conference show a slow but
steady increase in both members and means,
also in the storage of wheat. There is not
much call for charitable work, some of the
wards report no poor among them.
	President Louisa Haight presided at the
conference. She and her counselors, H. E.
Tuttle and Ann Wilson, though all in poor
health, felt to praise the Lord for His good-
ness, and encourage the sisters in their work
of charity and mutual improvement. In
connection with others the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sister Avery of Castle Valley,
also by Brother Moroni Pickett of the Stake
presidency and Bishop John L. Smith of
Oakley.
LOUISA PICKETT, Rec. Sec.
	Feb. 20, 1898.
PROVO FOURTH WARD.
	THE annual meeting of the board of
managers of the Provo Fourth ward Relief
Society was held in the Society house on
Saturday February 3, 1898, at 10 a. m.,
President M. M. Watson presiding. In the
absence of the secretary Anna B. Selck was
chosen secretary pro tem.
	Minutes of Jan. 28, 1897, were read and
accepted, showing one hundred and five
officers and members enrolled, and twenty-
eight meetings held. The treasurer’s report
for the year ending February 1, 1898, was
then read, showing donations received in
cash, provisions and merchandise as follows:
Receipts $157.25; disbursments $124.25;
balance on hand $33.00; wheat 30 bushels.
	President M. M. Watson said she was
well pleased with the report and had en-
joyed her labors among the sick and needy
in the ward, and felt to encourage all to at-
tend the meetings during the present year.
	It was moved and seconded that the old
board be re-elected with the exception of
Sarah E. Cluff resigned. The officers that
comprise the board are as follows: Margaret
M. Watson, president; Mary M. Boyden,
first vice-president; Delia I. Booth, second
vice-president; Mary Boshard, secretary;
Anna B. Selck, assistant secretary; Mary
M. Boyden, treasurer; Jane B. Snyder,
Sophina Gee and Harriet E Bean, trustees.
Plans for the new year were adopted and
the meeting adjourned subject to call.
ANNA B. SELCK, Asst. Sec.

[Column 3]
VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety convened in the Virgin City meeting
house Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting was called to
order by Sister Emma Hinton. President
Sariah Workman and her counselors, Emma
Hinton and Mary Spendlove were present,
also Counselor Charles Burk. After the
usual exercises of singing and prayer the
roll was called showing an attendance of
twenty-one; the secretary read the annual
report showing an average attendance of
eighteen. The treasurer then read her re-
port showing a little increase of property in
the past year. We have on hand some lit-
tle means necessary for burying our dead,
for we live in some very trying circum-
stances. We have no store to depend on,
and it is impossible to get what we want at
the right time.
	Brother Charles Burk was the first speak-
er. He said he felt grateful to the sisters
for the good they had done in the past, and
knew that the spirit of the Lord was with
them.
	President Workman and several other
sisters also spoke. Said they felt grateful
for the many blessings we have enjoyed.
We live in a little far off corner, but we try
to live for the hope that is within us; but
when one looks around and reads the news-
papers it makes one think that peace is
taken from the earth. And yet we are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; for we
believe that not only the Latter-day Saints
have faith in His near advent but the
whole Christian world seems to feel more or
less the spirit of the times, and that great
events are about to transpire and we hope
not to be found asleep, and if we are awake
we may be found among those who have
oil in their vessels and their lamps trimmed
and burning.
EMILY A. STRATTON, Sec.
LAIE OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
Dear Sister:
	You will please find inclosed our Relief
Society report for the past year, and think-
ing that the readers of the “Exponent”
would be interested in hearing from this
part of the Lord’s vineyard, I take pleasure
in writing to you as nearly as possible what
we are doing.
	I am pleased to say that the work is pro-
gressing nicely, and I think our association
will compare favorably with others. We
find among the Hawaiian sisters many
faithful and energetic workers. They take
great interest in learning of things pertain-
ing to the Gospel and I have known some
of them to walk from three to eight miles to
attend meeting. Many of them are very
thoughtful in caring for the Elders who are
traveling on the adjacent islands, providing
food for them and attending to their wash-
ing.
	At present there are twenty-eight branch-
es, and as a rule meetings are held
weekly. We hold officers meeting the
second Saturday of each month. This day
is the special fast day for the missionaries
laboring here. The officers meeting is held
at our Mission house, and we instruct the
native sisters in regard to the Relief Soci-
ety work. We have a short program in
which we take up the principles of the
Gospel. Every two weeks visitors are sent
out to encourage the members to attend
their meetings, and once in six weeks I


send some of the leading sisters to the other
islands to visit them in their conferences,
and I hope that we missionary sisters may
be able to visit all the branches of the
society on the islands in the near future.
	At present their are five sisters on the
mission, myself, Sister Ella C. Berdno, Sis-
ter Tryphena B. Garff, Sister Elizabeth C.
Williams and Sister Jennie Patten Musser.
We are striving for a knowledge of the lan-
guage and endeavoring in our weak way to
teach the sisters here principles that will
elevate them. Besides our Relief Society
work we each have a class in the Sunday
School and assist in the Mutual Improve-
ment and the Primary work. We have our
temporal labors to attend to, and feel thank-
ful for having the privilege of spending a
portion of our time in assisting to roll on
this great work. We feel that we have
been greatly blessed in so doing.
	Any word of encouragement or instruct
tion from our leading sisters at home would
be gladly received by us. We receive
regularly your valuable and interesting
paper which is greatly appreciated by us.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
