EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference 1898.

	STATE SENATOR Martha H. Cannon who
went to Washington, D. C. by special in-
vitation of the officers of the National
American W. S. A. to attend the Semi-
Centennial celebration of the Woman’s
Rights convention held in Seneca Falls,
New York State, 1848, left this city Feb. 14
and arrived in good time (no doubt) for the
opening session. She had been notified by
the corresponding secretary, Rachel Foster
Avery, that she was appointed on the com-
mittee to speak before the Senate committee
and also at the convention. The Woman's
Journal of Boston gives us the only infor-
mation we have upon the subiect, and we
must await further facts until Dr. Cannon
returns to tell her own story or give us
newspaper comments. We learned incident-
ly that she left Washidgton for Philadelphia
after the convention was over.


THE George Washington Memorial
entertainment on Saturday evening Feb.
19, was a great success. The entertain-
ment was given at Major and Mrs Downey’s
residence 808 E. First South St. The
house is admirably adapted for entertaining,
spacious halls and rooms large and con-
nected with folding doors. The decora-
tions were simply superb and one could not
help feeling the enthusiasm that comes
from flags, stars and stripes, banners and
martial music, officers in uniform and all
the paraphernalia of military costumes.
Some of the ladies of the committee were in
the costume of 1776—with powdered hair,
feathers, high combs and rare old laces, and
under the canopy of very beautiful silk
flags shone with social brilliancy, making a
very pretty effect. In fact all the arrange-
ments seemed perfect in every detail. The
tables where refreshments were served were
very inviting and the ladies who did the
honors were charmingly attired and per-
formed the duties gracefully. In fact all
went off merrily and every one declared it
the most brilliant event of the season. The
music was par excellence, and there seemed
nothing wanting to make the whole affair
delightful to all participants. The com-
mittee are now assured of the financial suc
cess of the entertainment.


