FRANCES E. WILLARD.
MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD who died
Feb. 19, 1898, was the greatest Temper-
ance leader of the age. She had wonder-
ful power in many directions which eminent-
ly qualified her for the position and with-
al possessed that exquisite tact the French
designate finesse.
Miss Willard has twice visited Salt Lake
and is well known to many of the people of
Utah.
The sketch of her life given here is from
a Chicago paper.
“Miss Willard was born in Churchville,
near Rochester, New York, Sep. 28, 1839.
She was the daughter of Josiah F. and
Mary Thompson Hill Willard, both of New
England stock. Her girlhood was spent in
Churchville. Oberlin, O., and Janesville,
Wis. From Janesville the family moved to
Evanston, which has since been known as
the Willards’ home suburb. Miss Willard
was a graduate of North Western university
and took the degree of A. M. from Syra-
cuse university. She was for four years
professor of natural science at the North-
Western Female college, one year preceptor
at the Genesee, Wesleyan seminary, Lima,
N. Y., two years traveled abroad studying
continental languages and the fine arts; in
1871 became president of the Woman’s col-
lege and professor of aesthetics in North-
Western university; in 1874 corresponding
secretary of the W. C. T. U., in 1877 was
associated with Mr. Moody in evangelistic
work in Boston, in 1878 was president of
the W. C. T. U. in Illinois and editor of
the Chicago Daily Post, and in 1878 was
mad[-]president of the National W. C. T. U.
“In 1887 Miss Willard was elected presi-
dent of the Woman’s Council of the United
States, formed from the confederated soci-
eties of women, and in the same year she


was elected to the general conference 
of the Methodist Episcopal church. In 1889 she 
was chosen to the oecumenical conference of 
the same church by the Rock River con- 
ference, but her name was thrown out by 
the board of control because she was a wo- 
man. She was the originator of the peti- 
tion against the alcohol and opium trade, 
started on a tour around the world, and to 
be presented to all governments. She was 
from the first one of the directors of the Wo- 
man’s Temperance Publishing association 
and also one of the board of directors of the 
National Temperance hospital of the Tem- 
perance temple. 
	“Miss Willard was sometimes called 
“America’s uncrowned queen.” Besides 
the multifarious duties connected with the 
presidency of the world’s and national tem- 
perance organizations, books, magazines, 
articles, tracts and editorials followed in 
quick succession from her busy brain. Even 
during her year and a half of enforced ‘rest’
her vitalized touch continued to be felt in 
every department of the W. C. T. U. work.”


