SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Manti, Dec. 18,
1897. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by L. J. Nuttall.
Singing “Where the voice of friendship’s,
heard.”
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and the gathering of the
Jews; warned the mothers to have a watch
care over their children.
	The different Societies were represented
as follows: Gunnison, Pres. Helena Mad-
sen; Fountain Green, Sec. Christina Guy-
man; Fairview, Counselor Caroline Peter-
son; Fayette, Pres. Eliza Bartholomew;
Mt. Pleasant, by letter; Ephraim North
ward, Pres. Benedicta Hansen; Manti
North ward, Pres. R. Wareham; Manti
South ward, Pres. Esther Anderson; Moro-
ni, Pres. Annie Hardy; Mayfield, Pres.
Matilda Olsen; Milburn, Sec. Nelly Gra-
ham.
	President M. A. Hyde said if the sisters
would have faith and would arise and speak
and bear testimony, the Lord would bless
them and give them a testimony. Said
there were many things that would come to
try us, but if we have a testimony we will
overcome them.
	Bishop Jensen was pleased to see that the
sisters were interested in the poor of the
ward. Counselor A. L. Cox made a few
closing remarks. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” Benediction by Brother Aaron
Hardy.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
J. B. Maiben. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet.” Reading and adop-
tion of the previous minutes. The remain-
ing reports were given: Spring City,
Counselor Nancy Acord; Sterling, Elizabeth
Thompson; Butler Field, Counselor Martha
Sorenson
	Brother L. J. Nuttall spoke of the small
percentage of sisters attending the meeting;
thought the sisters were not doing them-
selves justice. Said it was not only for the
poor, but for the saving of souls. He
looked upon the Society as a school and
we cannot be saved in our ignorance. Gave
instructions to the secretaries and said he
looked upon the wheat question as one of
the most important things in the Society;
it came from the highest authority. He
said if the Saints do all they can to avert
the famine the Lord will avert their calami-
ties from their door. Said are we becoming
mixed up with the world or are we prepar-
ing to save our own souls and help others
to save theirs? Asked the peace and bless-
ing of the Lord to be with us.
	President M. A. Hyde gave the sisters a
mother’s blessing; she then spoke in
tongues and Sister Elizabeth Casto inter-
preted.
	Brother J. D. T. McAllister endorsed and
testified to the truthfulness of the remarks
that had been made and encouraged the
taking of notes. Said to follow those who
were to lead and it would be well with us.
Brother J. B. Maiben hoped we might be


