[Column 2]
the son of Ham, founded Memphis about
2,700 B. C., making it the capital of the
country and that it then reached a high
state of civilization.
	The history of the country from the
founding of Memphis until the Persian
invasion which covers a period of a little
more than two thousand years, is divided
into three parts called the Old, Middle and
New Empires. During the first thousand
the pyramids are supposed to have been
built, Abraham came from Caanan, the
shepherd kings, supposed to have been
Arabians, overrun the country, usurped the
throne, established a government and re-
ligion which taught the worship of the true
God. During this time Joseph was made
chief minister and Jacob was given the land
of Goshen. In time the kingdom was di-
vided into many parts and Thebes became
the capital, the city of a hundred gates,
costly palaces, and wonderful works such as
the lake Moeris and the Labarinth abound.
The shepherd kings have been driven out
and a Theban ruler is on the throne, the peo-
ple are united and Egypt for another one
thousand years enjoyed great prosperity,
rising to the height of its glory. Thotmes
III., called the Egyptian Alexander the
Great, erected the magnificent temple
at T—Seti, built the great hall of Karnac.
Rameses II. was a great builder. He it
was who made the lives of the Hebrews
bitter with hard labor. He founded a
library, inscribed the “Dispensary of the
Soul,” and gathered around him many men
of learning, making his time the golden age
of early art and literature. Thus closed
the second thousand years.
	Then began the decline of the Empire. It
was unable to keep the great conquests in
Ovid and other countries, the tributaries
uprose and the country was conquered by
the Ethiopians and the Assyrians, and fin-
ally under Cambyses, the Persian king, be-
came a Persian province, 525 B. C. For
two hundred years the Egyptians struggled
with the Persians for independence, they
often gained it but as often were overcome
again, and for over two hundred years there
has not been a native ruler in the land of
Egypt, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Ezek-
iel that “there shall be no more a prince in
the land of Egypt.” And we look for its
subsequent history with that of its conquer-
ors.
	In 336 B. C. Alexander the Great, king of
Macedonia, conquered the Persians and
marched against Thebes, destroying the
magnificent city, and selling the inhabitants to
the number of thirty thousand into slavery.
He also founded the city of Alexandria
which for many centuries afterwards was
the first commercial cityt of he world. At
his death and the division of his kingdom
among his generals, Ptolemy a half brother,
was given Egypt, and now commenced the
reign of the Ptolemies. There was thirteen
successive rulers of that name, their
government extending over a period of
about three thousand years and ending with
the death of the famous Cleopatra, who
occupying the throne with her brother was
the last of the Ptolemies. During the
reign of the first of these monarchs Egypt
was the center of learning for the world.
Great libraries were founded and science
and literature flourished.
	In 316 B.C. was fought the battle of Ach-
eron in whtch Octavius defeated Anthony
and Cleopatra and Egypt became a Roman
province. Two hundred years later, 668


