F. MARION CRAWFORD.

	THE distinguished author and lecturer,
F. Marion Crawford, recently paid Utah a
visit speaking in Provo, Salt Lake and
Ogden.
	Mr. Crawford is an American though
born in Rome, where his father (Thomas
Crawford) was at the time studying sculp-
ture. He has had a cosmopolitan educa-
tion—has studied at Harvard and at Cam-
bridge, England, and Heidleburg, Germany,
has traveled very extensively and at one time
edited a newspaper in Allahabad, India; he
has lived much in foreign parts, principally
in Italy and Sicily. He is a man of broad
views and has a decided originality that is
very charming. He is very tall and of mag-
netic presence, has a rich, clear voice and
eloquent eyes, his diction is perfect, one
never loses a word, nor even an accent.
With most of his books the people of Salt
Lake City are familiar and unlike most
authors he was evidently willing to talk of
his stories.
	His lecture in this city was under the
auspices of the Ladies Literary club and
was given in the M. E. Church on Third
South St. Mr. Crawford was introduced to
the audience by Rev. Henry, who had
known him in New York City. The audi-
ence was large, the hall being crowded to
its utmost capacity. The subject was Leo
XIII. and the Vatican. Evidently the
speaker was in love with his theme; it was
apparent throughout the evening, for he
spoke nearly two hours. He described the
Pope graphically, both the outward and the
inner man; one who heard him could easily
see the picture and imagine the voice and
manner of the man he portrayed. A scholar,
a poet, a statesman, brilliant in intellectual
attainments, cultured and polished in all
that gives tone and finish to the gentleman
and scholar, and yet simple in tastes and
habits in the details of life. Mr. Crawford
compared Pope Leo with Lincoln and
Gladstone and contrasted him and his
labors in the Church with Pope Pius IX.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club gave a
reception to Mr. Crawford at the Bee Hive
House—the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson—from 3 to 6 p. m. on Tuesday,
March 22. The parlors were prettily ar-
ranged for the occasion and Miss Claire
Clawson in her sweet, amiable way made
the ladies of the club more than welcome.
Dr. R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells and Susa Y.
Gates took charge of the introductions and
presented the callers to Mr. Crawford, the
guest of honor, who was most gracious and
affable, conversing with ease and freedom
to each one present with a dignified con-
geniality that won praise and admira-

