A POET’S EVENING.

	ON the evening of Friday, January 21,
last, a number of the old-time friends of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent
leader among the women of Zion, kept her
birthday anniversary at the home of the
writer. There were about forty of the sis-
ters present among whom were the vener-
able women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others
not so far advanced in life. These three
Mothers in Israel were members of the first
organization of the Relief Society in Nau-
voo, and had always been closely associated
with “Sister Eliza.”
	The hymn “O My Father” was sung and
prayer was offered by Sister M. Isabella
Horne—following the prayer the ladies
joined in singing “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah,” Sister Zina
made a brief address and the hostess read
letters of regret from Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards of Ogden, Sarah M. Kimball, Emma
Woodruff and others of Salt Lake City.
Many of the ladies present read choice
selections from her favorite poem of the es-
teemed and revered poetess; and the time
flew by on “wings of the wind” so to
speak. Simple refreshments were served
although the party was more of a spiritual
and poetic nature than one of feasting and
merriment.
	The memory of the beloved “elect lady”
was fresh and tender in the minds of all
present. Her writings, her teachings her
travels at home and abroad, her labors
among the people and in the Temple were
all remarked upon in the general conversa-
tion. Sister Eliza lives in the hearts of the
Saints and her good works will never die.
She is immortalized by her poems, and the
writer would recommend that the Young
People’s Association keep copies of her two
volumes of poems in their libraries. There
is a large number for sale at the Deseret
News Office, and they are considered valu-
able additions to the literature of the
Church. The children of Zion should be
taught to venerate the memory of one who
did so much for them, in visiting, teaching
and organizing; besides the books written
expressly for their use. The Primary
Hymn Book and Tune Book, Questions
and Answers and the Primary Speaker
Vols. I. and II. Beside the books already
mentioned Sister Eliza edited and published
Correspondence from Palestine and The Life
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and family
history.


