A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	MARCH 4, was the birthday of Sister
Sarah S. Forsyth, second counselor to Sis-
ter Jane S. Coleman, president of the Relief
Society of the Wayne Stake of Zion. And
inasmuch as Sister Forsyth expected to move
away from among us, and her labors in the
Society had been very earnest, a birthday
surprise was gotten up for her at the resi-
dence of Sister Margaret J. Taylor, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Loa ward.
Many of her friends there expressed to her
their appreciation of her labors among the
sick, and the kindness and love she had
shown to the poor and oppressed.
	An excellent dinner was served, after
partaking of which presents were made us
mementoes and keepsakes. Songs and
hymns were sung, and many strong testi-
monies were borne to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and in behalf of Sister Forsyth, kind and
loving speeches were made and her chari-
table works, kind deeds and devotion to
the truth were spoken of. Among the
many who were present were Sister Lucinda
Brown, the oldest inhabitant of Loa Ward,
Margaret Pace and Nancy Blackburn, who
have also passed through the early trials of
the Latter-day Saints. “When shall we all
meet again” was sung to close with, and the
following verses were prepared and presented
to Sister Sarah Forsyth. 
	Tis forty-six years since the day of thy birth,
	Thy spirit untarnished then came to the earth,


To dwell with a people whom God had assigned
The honor of bearing his workto mankind.

Devoted in childhood and faithful in youth,
Your footsteps have trod in the pathway of truth
With hand ever ready the weakest to guide,
As they drifted along on life’s billowy tide.

Your voice has been raised in the conflict of right,
In sunshine of day and darkness of night,
Most freely you’ve striven earth’s children to
	bless,
In times of rejoicing or deepest distress.

Priceless the seed in this life you sow,
Priceless the fruits thy harvest shall know;
Seeds that will spring forth in glory and might,
In a crown for thy head in the mansions of light.

Thy works all await thee on Heaven’s bright.
	shore,
The blessings of Zion have, too, gone before,
The thanks of the hungry thy hand hath fed,
The prayers of the souls thy counsel hath led.

A crown all unfading, eternal, divine,
Where thorns nevermore with roses will twine;
Where nevermore bitter will mingle with sweet
Nor rough be the path, nor weary the feet.

May you live till God’s people are ransomed and
	free,
Live till the wicked from Zion shall flee,
Till the warfare is ended, the victory won,
Then hear the glad tidings “Thy work is well
	done.”
