[Column 1]
many of the faces here she had known
since childhood. Urged the sisters never
to neglect their prayers night or morning,
for then their hearts would be kept warm
within them and they would love one
another, and they would then have the
Spirit of the Lord. Said she could scarce-
ly realize that this Gospel had gone
throughout the world. We could only do
our duty today, we could not do it for to-
morrow; it was like feeding a little baby
just a teaspoonful of nourishment at a time.
She thought we did not realize near all the
blessings of the Gospel, and felt to thank
God that He inspired President Brigham
Young to organize these meetings, and
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the com-
mencement of the new year and of the many
good resolutions that had been made, also
spoke on fault finding and said whenever
we felt like doing so we should go to the
Lord in humility and pray for them and for
ourselves; knew if we indulged in fault
finding, especially about the Priesthood in
authority, that it would lead to apostacy.
Thought it was a noble work to look after
the poor and to administer to them, and that
it would keep our hearts warm. God had
inspired these benovelant men to help the
poor, that it was His work. Said that she
had heard a Bishop say that notwithstand-
ing the hard times that now existed never
before had they been so well prepared to
look after their poor, and felt this was an
evidence that God was our help and Father
in time of need, even as He had promised
He would be. 
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said as she was
not here last meeting she wished us all a
happy and a prosperous New Year. Spoke
of a meeting she attended in West Bounti-
ful and said she had never in all her life
attended such a meeting. The Spirit of
the Lord was poured out to a great degree.
Said she felt a great anxiety for our young
children but still felt they would be cared
for and loved. Urged those who had but
one talent to make the most of it.
	Brother Goddard was very much pleased
by the remarks of the sisters. Spoke of the
signs of the times and of laying up wheat
and flour, and said that Brother George Q.
Cannon in their Sunday School meeting
had urged the brethren to preach the word
of wisdom, especially to the young people.
Sang “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps said she felt there
were great things before us. She knew
that the spirit of repentance would be
poured out upon the rising generation.
Spoke in tongues, which was interpreted by
“Sister Zina.”
	President Horne thought we had had a
very good meeting, even if there were a
good many temporal things to attend to.
There was every help in the world for peo-
ple to live their religion; there were mis-
sionaries both abroad and at home, and
many kinds of meetings for people to know
what was right. Thought mothers did not
teach their children young enough to pray
and have faith in God. Said that instead
of the people being tried they were being
proven, spoke strongly on the signs of the
times and prayed that we might be faithful
and true to our covenants and to God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Brother Goddard.	
			ZINA H. Bull, Sec.

