[Column 1]
in the path of progress and that we might
be better one year than another, as we are
in the school of Christ.
	Brother L. J. Nuttall said there is every-
thing in our Society that is necessary for
the advancement or good of the sisters-
He said if we find anything good and truth.
ful we can unite it with ours.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Hans Jenson.
SALT LAKE STAKE,
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held  in
the Fourteenth ward assembly hall Dec. 18,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding with
her counselors A. T. Taylor and C. C. Can-
non. Present on the stand were Elder
Brigham Young of the council of the
Apostles; Elder Angus M. Cannon presi-
dent of the Salt Lake Stake; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young of the general board; B. W.
Smith, J. S. Richards, M. W. Wilcox, E.
J. Stevenson, J. C. Howe and L. D. Alder.
Meeting was opened by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Prayer was offered by
C. C. Cannon. Singing “O awake my
slumbering minstrel.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. Roll
called, forty-five wards represented.
	President Horne said she felt happy to
see so many together, we should seek first
tha kingdom of God and all other things
would be added. “Blessed are ye when ye
seek after righteousness.” Said the adver-
sary was seeking after the Latter-day Saints
and trying to throw obstacles in the way of
those who were trying to do their duty.
Said to ask our Heavenly Father what our
duties were and do them, pray without
ceasing, take care of our children and try
and help them in the straight and narrow
path. Said, “I see many things in Zion
that make me sad, but Zion will be purified
and the Lord is willing to deliver us from
sin.” Said the Gospel was so plain and
beautiful it should stimulate us to do good
and lift up all who come under its influence.
“We are blest of all women, let us not
get weary of well doing.” Spoke on the
Church works being read in the Society,
said they were good food for any Latter-
day Saint. All kinds of clubs were being
organized, why cannot we reform in our
Society and call on those who do not attend?
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence and hoped we would all be fed with
the bread of life.
	Sister B. W. Smith asked for the faith
and prayers of the sisters, was pleased with
the reports. Said her time was taken up
in the Temple, it was a great work and
President Young had said he would like to
see twenty temples built, some in Mexico
and Arizona, for the Savior would not come
while there was so much wickedness on the
earth. Prayed for the Lord to bless the sis
ters in their labors.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde felt her weakness
and asked for the prayers of the sisters. She
felt that the presidents were interested in
their work, and that the Lord blessed His
daughters. The Prophet Joseph had an in-
terest and care over the women when he
appointed his wife Emma president of the
Society. Our Society should be education-
al, advised reading and speaking in the
Society and said we have everything in our
organization to elevate women.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon rejoiced in meet-
ing with the Society, said it had been edu-

