[Column 1]
the Mohammedans overrun the country
burning the famous library at Alexandria.
In 1217 it was conquered by the Turks,
in 1798 it was invaded by Napoleon, in
1801 the British expelled the French and
the country fell into the hands of the Turks
under whose government it has remained to
the present day.
	We learn of their religion that they be-
lieved in one God, self-creative and all
powerful; that His representatives were
worshiped in the sun and moon, in the form
of animals, cats, dogs and crocodiles and
many others. That they believed in the
immortality of the soul and a final judg-
ment with a heaven hereafter whose degree
of glory would correspond with our work
here. In the catacombs built in the chain
of mountains bordering the Nile are im-
mense tombs; the upper rooms are orna-
mented with pictures and statuary showing
the people in their daily occupation, and
here we gather fragments of their history
proving that they were skilled in agricul-
ture, mechanical arts and domestic work.
Linen found in the tombs at Memphis is
comparable in touch to silk, equaling our
finest cambric. Dyeing and coloring was
well understood. Indeed their secret of
colors in painting has never been equaled.
Time does not fade them, and it is said that
among many ruins the colors are well pre-
served.
	Their literature contains much that is
elevating, showing a high standard of mor-
als. From the Book of the Dead, we quote
the soul’s defense before the God Osisis,
the sun: “I have not been idle; I have not
been intoxicated; I have not told secrets; I
have not told falsehoods; I have not de-
frauded; I have not slandered; I have not
caused tears; I have given food to the hun-
gry, drink to the thirsty, and clothes to
the naked.” The papyrus or reed plant
with parchment, the dried skins of animals,
was prepared in sheets to hold their writ-
ing. The earliest books consisted of pic-
tures similar to those used by our Indians
today. The people were divided into class-
es, the priests being the most learned and
powerful. In disposition they were mild
and social and very religious, their religion
entering into every day life. Dark-skinned,
tall and well proportioned people who were
fond of amusement and great lovers of
flowers.
	Their architecture massive and enduring
has been the wonder of the world. The
Egyptian granite is so hard that it can
scarcely be cut with the best steel made to-
day, yet anciently it was chiselled or cut
several inches deep showing a beautiful
finish. Among the greatest pieces of
architecture are the pyramids, the great
Karnac, Labarinth and lake Moeris. The
great pyramid of Cheops is 480 ft. high and
covers 13 1/2 acres. Prof. Seiss calls it a
great temple built in the land of Egypt to
the Lord, and brings forth many arguments
that are unanswerable in regard to its
wonderful scientific and astronomical char-
acters, showing that its builders had more
than human knowledge. Unlike the other
ruins found such as palaces, temples, oba-
lisks and monuments, the pyramids are left
without hieroghyphics, or picture writing,
this appears unaccountable. I think it is
impossible for any one to read the works of
Profs. Smith and Seiss and remain uncon-
vinced of its divine origin. At Thebes the
great temple of Karnac connected with that
of Luxor two miles away by an avenue of

