[Column 2]
Mrs. Wells its secretary—the labor per-
formed by the women of Mormondom is
outlined. All may read the page. The
publication referred to is an advocate of the
principles of truth. Gems of thought both
prose and poetry adorn it.
	This noble woman after spending a life-
time in aiding the poor, relieving their dis-
tress and speaking the comforting word to
those bowed down in sorrow, at the age of
seventy years gives to the world her book
of choice poems.
	“Musings and Memories” just issued
from the press is the crowning effort of her
life. It is replete with beautiful thoughts,
spun in threads of light and sparkling with
rare intelligence. Many of the poems con-
tain sublime pathos combined with sweet
simplicity. I will mention “At Last.”

“There must be something we desire to gain,
	A recompense for pacing to and fro,
Some sweet fruition which we would obtain,
	Or greater wisdom that we fain would know.
And this is why we toil on and endure—
	Do battle ’mid life’s trials, storms and strife,
Because we feel that there is something sure
	That we shall find, within a higher life.”

	Thoughts reaching out to the majesty on
high in “Meditation.”

“My soul has gone forth in its wandering, 
	To the hills that are purple with light;
Those temples that tower everlasting,
	In their majesty, grandeur and might.

But the life giving means is the marvel,
	The mystery, past knowledge and skill;
No man can the secret unravel;
	It abideth in God at His will.”

	Whisperings of a pre-existence is awak-
ened in “Shadows and Whisperings.”

“I sometimes think I must have lived before,
	In a much brighter fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss,
Where soft hands lingered in a fond caress
	Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless.”

	A life beyond the grave is shadowed in
“Thoughts and Memories of a Summer
Hour.”

“Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flowers spring up afresh where all was drear;
And something whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign devoid of fear.”

	Comforting words to the weary heart,
faint unto weeping and worn with many
prayers, are sung to the “Bereaved Mother.”

E’en if weary and broken hearted,
	With that which thou deemest loss;
Although from the dearest ones parted,
	He will help thee bear thy cross;
And if the ordeal seems cruel,
	The Father will make it right,
And the brighter thy precious jewel,
	Will shine in the realms of light.”

	The beauties of nature are extolled. One
thinks of the beautiful earth clothed in ver-
dure, arrayed in flowers, with singing
birds, oceans grand and forest shades.

“O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature has concealed;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been revealed.
Nor will it be till we have proved how true
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.”

	How sweet is sympathy! a slender gold-
en chain it links suffering hearts together.
Tears of sorrow touched the Master’s heart 

[Column 3]
whose chords vibrated at sight of human
woe, and Jesus wept. From “Sorrow and
Sympathy.”

“And as we do to others, in their need,
	Loving our neighbor as the Savior taught;
Then we are sowing broadcast precious seed,
	And we shall reap a harvest where we’ve
	wrought;
For if our faith fail not and we endure,
Then all our Father’s promises are sure.” 

	Love the best thing in the world, all
powerful, everlasting and enduring in
“Autumnal Musings.”

“The harp strings may be shattered,
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory still remaineth;
And the love that we have cherished,
And the hope that we have nourished,
	The immortal soul retaineth.”

	How beautiful are spiritual thoughts!
So near to the gates of glory that stray
beams shine through the golden bars, and
mingling with the perfumed air, strains of
softest melody float over the purple hills of
Paradise. They soothe the aching heart
and throbbing brain. O, just over there is
a “Home Immortal.”

“No more weeping, no more sighing,
	No more agonizing fears;
And no requiem for the dying;
	Chanted ’mid the falling tears.

Sweetest strains of music ringing,
	Echo through the wide domain,
Choirs of heavenly voices singing,
	“Nevermore to part again.’”

	Some lives go out in glory. Like the
sun blazing as it sinks below the horizon,
casting its reflection far over the heavens of
burning ships heaving and tossing, flaming
chariots moving slowly along and seas of
somber blue bordered by fleecy clouds edged
with gleams of gold. The mountains catch
the radiance, and high up their sides wide
valleys appear, even deep ravines are gilded
by the grand effulgence of the sun’s last
gorgeous rays.
	Well may this, our friend, feel proud of
her life’s work, and many will rise up and
call her blessed. On history’s page her
name is written in letters of gold.
	May her heart be comforted, her head
rest lightly on her pillow, her beautiful faith
in God our Father constantly increase.
	Mrs. Wells, accept the love and congratu-
lations of your friends, who join in wishing
you many happy returns of your natal day,
and in saying “The world is better for
your having lived in it.”
