[Column 2]
that always attended the meetings of the
Saints She realized that God had been
good to her and had ever had a watch-care
over her. She had never felt like drawing
away from Him. Spoke of the life and
works of Elder Erastus Snow. He lived at
her father’s home for some time, had en-
joyed the Gospel then very much as also
now. Said she did not care to be the one
to say she had never had a trial.
	Sister Cottrell said she thought we should
not speak of trials when we were permitted
to come here and attend these meetings and
enjoy the sweet spirit which was here.
She had been reading about some of the
ancient martyrs who had been so cruelly
persecuted for their religion, and could not
help thinking what a blessed people we
were that we could enjoy our religion to
the extent we did; bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barrow said there was qot a day
when she did not thank God for the bless-
ings she enjoyed and wondered how any
one could doubt, especially when we could
see the prophecies of the prophets of God
being so rapidly fulfilled. Prayed the Lord
to bless our aged sisters, that they might be
spared to us for many years yet to instruct
and encourage us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been very
ill but was healed by the power of faith, for
which she was very grateful. A sister in
the congregation also bore her testimony to
the power of healing.
	Sister Barnes felt thankful for our dear
aged sisters, Sister Horne and others, who
had been such a blessing and comfort to us.
Spoke of her native country Scotland, said
she loved it, yet she was glad to leave it to
come to Zion. Singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we had had a
treat in listening to the beautiful testi-
monies of the sisters, and knew we were
strengthened by this. She thought with
Sister Horne that the Spirit of the Lord was
being poured out upon the sisters, and al-
luded to the signs of the times, felt there
was a very eventful time before us. The
mothers should be careful what they said
before their children, that their faith
might not be weakened but strengthened.
Prayed that we might not make much of
our trials but put our trust in God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she thought we
should learn to sift ourselves and throw out
the chaff. Spoke on humility and the
signs of the times. Said we must not for-
get our God or He would forget us. When
we get discouraged just throw off the humor
and rest and then with the help of the Lord
we would go on again refreshed.
	Sister Mary Silver said she felt glad that
she was a Latter-day Saint, and she was also
glad and proud that we had a sister like
Sister Horne to help and advise us. Said
we never knew her to tell us anything that
was not true, and spoke on the word of
wisdom, knew there was peace for those
who practiced it.
	Sister Hannah Wright thought it was
good to devote a little of our time to meet-
ings, said the more time we gave to the
Lord the better it was for us, there was no
enjoyment like serving the Lord. She had
heard Brother Woodruff say, “How very
few of the millions that are in the world
have embraced the Gospel and how few of
the Saints are really living their religion.”
She felt pleased and grateful to see so many
here. Said sometimes she wished the Gos-
pel had come to her earlier in life, but was

[Column 3]
consoled by having a brother say to her
that it came in just the right time.
	Singing “Be it my only wisdom here.”
President Horne had been reminded to-
day of a saying of Sister Eliza R. Snow that
“a good meeting was like a picnic where
each one brought something different that
was good.” It was so with the testimonies
this afternoon. Said when this building
would not hold all who came, we would
gladly adjourn to the Assembly hall.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction by Dr. E. S. Barney.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, March 5, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne requested the sisters to
be more united in their votes, she would like
to see every hand raised when a vote was
taken. Spoke strongly on fault finding,
especially with our brethren and the author-
ities, said the Lord was not pleased with us
when this was the case and urged the sis-
ters to unite their forces to quell this. Said
that there was nothing would give us the
joy that knowing we had served the Lord
would, and that there would be a place in
our Father’s kingdom for us. Fault find-
ing was not serving the Lord, neither does
it bring us peace or pleasure; it was the
humble and the meek who had the Spirit
of the Lord. She regretted that some of
our young people were married outside the
Temple. Knew this was a day of choosing
as well as warning, spoke strongly on the
signs of the times.
	Sister Holling knew by the minutes that
we must have had a beautiful meeting last
time, and felt the older she grew the strong-
er was her desire to serve the Lord.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had been fifty-
four years in learning obedience, that if we
lived right we were entitled to the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit. Asked how many
had had their Patriarchial blessings and
urged those who did not have them to get
them; said that they would be a source of
comfort. Spoke on the signs of the times,
also on young people being married right.
	A sister from Cache Valley said she felt
impressed to bear her testimony. She was
glad to see Sister Zina D. H. Young here,
and felt to say God bless her. Said many
times had she put her hands upon her head
and blessed her, also had heard her speak in
tongues many times.
	Singing “You are called to labor.” Sis-
ter Margaret P. Young said she never re-
membered of doubting the truth of the Gos-
pel, she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society and enjoyed her labors.
Sister Mary A. Hardy felt thankful for the
good women whom we had in our midst,
	Sisters Young and Horne, to comfort and
advise us. We knew the Lord was not
pleased with us when we indulged in fault-
finding and evil speaking against the Lord’s
anointed.
	President Zina D. H. Young said that
while looking around on the faces of her
sisters she was reminded of the Savior’s
words, that those who feared the Lord met
often together and spoke one to another,
“And they will be mine when I come to
make up my jewels.” “Just think of it


my sisters, by coming here and bearing our
testimonies and speaking one to another we
can be His. It is a simple thing to do but
means much.” Said she felt sorry for any
woman who spoke against the revelations
of God. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	Sister Elizabeth Eangton said she knew
the Spirit of the Lord was in this meeting
in great abundance, she had been greatly
blessed by the Lord, had been enabled to
send money to her husband who was on a
mission and also to gather a great amount
of genealogy. Said she had been forty
years in the Church, and felt greatly blest
in being able to say this.
	Sister Emma Nunn said she and her little
girl had both been very sick but had been
healed by the power of God. Had prom-
ised the Lord she would speak of His good-
ness to her this afternoon.
	Sister McMaster bore her testimony, felt
if she went away without doing this she
would be condemned. Spoke of her Relief
Society work and how she enjoyed it. She
knew it was the work of God.
	Sister Sarah Phelps made some beautiful
remarks, also spoke in tongues.
	Sister Derrick spoke of her recent be-
reavement in the death of her husband, and
alluded to his many virtues. Told how
suddenly he was taken, that he was almost
changed in the twinkling of an eye bore a
strong testimony. 
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that we had a place like
this where we could meet together and sing
and pray and comfort one another.
	President Horne felt the meeting had
been very enjoyable. Gave out the notice
of Stake conference two weeks from today.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor E. Webb.
