	JANETTE M’MURRIN DAVIS
   With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Janette McMurrin Davis, who de-
parted this life March 24, 1897, at Clifton, Oneida, 
Idaho. She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Dec.
23, 1854, and was the daug[h]ter of Joseph and Mar-
garet McMurrin, late of Salt Lake City. She
came to Uta[h] in 1856 and was married to Riley
Davis in 1872. She has been a resident of this 
place a number of years and has been a faith'ul
woman. holding the position of second counselor
in the Relief Society at two different times; she
also held the position of president at the time of
her death. 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit
in his alwise providence to call from our midst
our beloved sister, be it
   RESOLVED, That we the members of the Clifton
Relief Society recognize in the death of our be-
loved and honored president the great loss of an
able and efficient officer, and a very devoted
Saint and colaborer in the cause of truth—
   RESOLVED, that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and family in the
loss of a kind and affectionate wife and mother.
   RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her virtues as ever worthy of emulation.

   She was a dear loving wife, companion and
mother in the highest and truest sense that mor-
tals are permitted to enjoy. Her sweet voice and
influence were a charm to those who associated 
with her. It was only necessary to be slightly
acquainted with her to love her.  Her genial
qualities will be rememebred by all of her friends,
and they can but mourn her loss and sympathize
with her bereaved family. She truly rests in
peace, freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and 
death; she is in the society of parents and chil-
dren that have gone before to await the morning
of a glorious resurrection of the just, when she
will again mingle with the Saints and help to
build up the holy city and temple of our God in
which it will be the happy lot of all the pure in
heart to be associated.
   Though we deeply mourn her loss we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tenement,
and we will cherish her memory, for her good
deeds will live in the remembrance of all who have
at heart the welfare of Zion, and especially the
sisters who are uniting in associations for the ele-
vation of womankind[.]
   RESOLVED, That these resolutions be entered
in the Re[l]ief Society record; also that a copy be 
presented to the bereaved family and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.

	Mourn not for your wife dear brother,
	   You will meet her if you’re true
	To the cause of truth and virtue,
	    And your onward course pursue.

	Children mourn not for your mother,
	   For her home is now with God, 
	But strive to follow in her footsteps,
	   And ho[l]d fast the “iron rod.”

	Then bow to God and ask for comfort,
	   And that blessing you will gain;
	For your mother’s in His keeping,
	   And is free from earthly pain.
			ELIZABETH N. HENDERSON, 
							President.
			AMELIA J. DIXON,
			CHRISTINA ANDERSON,
						Counselors.


