AN INTERESTING PARTY.

	At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla
Jennings on Thursday February 10, there
was a delightful gathering of old friends
and acquaintances. The company was in
cordial sympathy not only in feeling but
upon the topics of the day, and it reminded
the writer very much of social gatherings in
the past at some of the familiar haunts
which Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee in one
of her sweet poems says "Where the old
friends meet." Mrs. Jennings has been
famous for many years for entertaining and
on this last occasion, those who were favor-
ed to be present found her the same digni-
fied, genial hostess as ever. As has been
said previously by an able newspaper man
in the daily papers, the sweet, peaceful spir-
it that prevailed gave the special charm
that all seamed to realize. The presence of
Presidents Woodruff George Q. Cannon
and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to
the party and added greatly to the spiritual
enjoyment.
	It was indeed "A feast of reason
and a flow of soul."


Elder George D. Pyper in his origin-
al charming way sang several songs, "O
Happy Day," "There is Sunshine in my
Soul," "Mona," and "Not Half has ever
been Told," which were tenderly sym-
pathethetic and Mrs. W. W. Riter gave
two ballads, one that went home to the
hearts of all who listened "The Old Oaken
Bucket." Miss Dwyer favored the com-
pany with two or three negro ballads in a
quaint, characteristic fashion, and Brother
Pyper towards the close of the party render-
ed the hymn by Eliza R. Snow, "O My
Father" the guests joining in after the first
verse. President Woodruff spoke a few
minutes congratulating Mrs. Jennings and
blessing her and her household. His words
were full of intense feeling and were as a
warning voice to all Israel to take heed to
counsel and cherish the Gospel as revealed
in the latter days. President George Q.
Cannon followed in a similar strain. All
present must have felt the power and in-
tense spiritual force of the remarks of these
men of God.
	The repast was delicate and delicious and
very gracefully served, the elegant china,
glass and silver, the snowy linen, the fra-
grance of rare and beautiful flowers all gave
added charms to the refreshments. Conver-
sation was general and many were the sin-
cere and earnest encomiums of praise upon
the hostess and her assistants of her own
family.
	Such delightful intercourse helps to cheer
life’s somber pathway, and not only the
guests but the hostess herself will feel the
refreshing and uplifting influence of such
company amid such surroundings. And
when Mrs. Jennings goes abroad as we un-
derstand she expects to do soon, she will
remember with satisfaction the happiness
she gave to others in her luxurious home in
Zion, and they will recall the visit with
pleasure and a fervent blessing and a prayer
upon her way.


