A NEW GRANARY AND HALL. 

Editor Exponent: 

	A SUBSTANTIAL and commodious granary 
has recently been erected by the Beaver Re-
lief Society, which will enable them to con-
tinue the good work of gathering and stor-
ing grain for many years to come without 
being cramped for storage room, (which has 
been the case with them for several years.)
The building is of a beautiful magnesium 
rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty 
wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is di-
vided into two rooms. One portion has 
been fitted up as a granary 24 by 25 inside
measurements, and the other portion, which 
is not yet completed, is designed to be em-
bellished with a fine porch, and will make
an excellent apartment for a store or 
other business purposes. 
	The work of the building was projected 
in the early part of the year 1895, at a time 
when money was scarce and the Society 
was practically without any available funds. 
Confidence in the Lord that He would open


up the way, and in the people that they 
would be generous in the assistance they 
were called upon to render to further the 
interests of the work, was felt by the pre-
siding officers; and stimulated by this a 
commencement was made in the summer of 
1895. During that year a solid foundation 
was laid, and during the following year 
the walls were put up, the roof completed 
and a beautiful concrete floor laid in the 
granary, and last year the wheat was trans-
ferred from the old building, the grist mill 
and other places where the Society had 
been under the necessity of storing it, to the 
new granary, approximating one thousand 
bushels, where it is safe from the ravages of 
mice, rats and all other marauders, as the 
building is absolutely vermin proof. 
	In commemoration of this notable event 
in the history of the Beaver Relief Society 
a complimentary picnic and social party was 
extended to all who had in any manner con-
tributed to the enterprise, as also those who 
had been employed in the construction of 
the edifice, on Thursday, Feb. 10, in the 
Assembly hall. 
	The exercises commenced at 11 a. m. by 
singing and prayer, which was followed by 
an extended program of speeches, recita-
tions, songs etc., lasting until 2 p. m. when 
a bountiful supply of edibles was passed 
around to the assembled guests. The re-
freshments consisted of numerous courses 
of delicious sandwiches, pies, cake etc., 
which amply testified to the culinary 
achievements of the cooks. After the feast 
of good things had been disposed of the 
program of exercises was continued until 5 
p. m., when the benediction was pronounc-
ed and the people dispersed with many ex-
pressions of appreciation at the successful 
termination of the efforts of the promoters 
of the social event of the season. 
