	HANNAH CHAPMAN RAYMOND
	Died at Soda Springs, Idaho, Feb. 15, 1898, of
paralysis, Hannah Chapman Raymond. Deceased
was born at Crowle, England, March 2, 1813, and
would have been eighty-five years old had she
lived two weeks longer She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in England
and emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming across the


plains in the first train of handcarts and belonging
to Brother Ellsworth’s company; she was known
at that time as Sister Goodworth, and traveled a
widow with four children, only one of whom sur-
vives her, viz.,Mrs. Ann Ashby, wife of Benj. Ash-
by of Woods Cross, Utah, who was an invalid at
that time   Deceased was left a widow four times
during her life and has suffered great oss in her
family, being the mother of thirteen children of
whom four only are liv ng, viz. Mrs. Frances
Clark, Crowle, England; Mrs. Ann Ashby, Wood’s
Cross, Utah; Mr William Chester and Mrs. Alice
Cambell, Soda Springs, Idaho. Deceased has
enjoyed particularly good health for ten years un-
til her last sickness, and has kept her own house
d ing most of her own work, until her eyesight
began to fail and some of her grandchildren lived
with her until about two years ago, when she re-
moved to the house of her daughter, Mrs Cam-
bell, where she died.
	She experienced a circumstance which was, no
doubt, miraculous, in connection with the dedica-
tion of of the Temple at Salt Lake. It was a
cherished wish of her’s that she might live to see
the completion of that building, and as the time
drew near her eyesight began to get so poor that
she was unable to see with the aid of glasses.
She attended the services, however, and when
she arrived at the Temple er eyesight was so far
restored that she dis inctly saw all objec s around
her, and after she returned to her daughter’s
home at Wood’s Cross she was able to read a
newspaper and thread a needle without the aid of
glasses. This blessing lasted only for a short
time, but her wish that she might see the Temple
was gratified
	She was president of the Relief Society of Soda
Springs ward for fifteen years, when she was
hono ably released on account of her old a e in
June 1896. She leaves many grandchildren,
great grandchildren, and one little great great
grandchild, the daughter of Cyrus and Emma
Page, of Bountiful Utah, besides a large number
of friends both in and out of the Church to
mourn her loss, for she was a friend to all.
[COM.]


