SOME REMINISCENCES,

	[Extracts from a letter of Eliza Clayton
Margetts written from Paris, Idaho.]
	AT the age of ten years I, with my par-
ents, emigrated from England and arrived
at Nauvoo in the fall of 1840. Our family
being large, father was counseled by the
Prophet Joseph to go into the country. We
did so and remained away from Nauvoo un-
til the summer of 1841, when we moved
back on account of the persecutions of mob-
ocrats.
	I have a distinct recollection of hearing
Ruth, wife of William Clayton, talk of the
organization of the Female Relief Society,
on her return home from the meeting at
which said organization took place.
	We moved to Carthage in the fall of 1842,
at which place we lived until after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother Hyrum. In the forenoon of the
day on which these atrocious murders were
committed, some of the neighbors disguised
and with painted faces, came to our house
and told mother she had better get out of
the way as they were going to kill the Pro-
phet that day. A terrible storm arose and
in the afternoon we heard the firing of guns
and soon after saw some of the murderers run
away howling like fiends. My sister Lucy
who was at this time living with the jailor’s
family and was at the jail when the shoot-
ing commenced, came home and told what
had happened. The next day I went with
my sister Lucy to the jail, we found the
doors and windows open and everything in
confusion, as though the people had left in
great haste. We went up stairs to the room
in which the Prophet and his brother had
been shot. There was some Church books
on the table and portraits of Joseph’s and
Hyrum’s families on the mantlepiece.
There was blood in pools on the floor and
bespattered on the walls, at sight of which
we were overcome with grief and burst in-
to tears. After becoming somewhat col-


lected, we gathered up what we supposed
belonged to the inmates of the room at the
time of the murder and placed it together
on a trunk that was in the room.
	About three weeks after the massacre of
Joseph and Hyrum we moved back to Nau-
voo. I witnessed the trying scenes the
Saints passed through until they were driv-
en from Nauvoo. I remember a circum-
stance that occurred during what is called
the battle of Nauvoo. While at the well
drawing a bucket of water, a cannon ball
from the enemies’ guns struck the chimney
of the house in which we lived, and so
much frightened me that I got my fingers
fast in the well windlass and in extracting
myself skinned my fingers nearly the whole
length.
	I was among the remnant of the sick and
dying Saints on the banks of the Missis-
sippi after the expulsion, when they were
miraculously fed on quails that alighted in
their midst. When the quails alighted they
lit on our laps and everything around.
After we had caught enough to eat they
flew towards the west like a swarm of bees.
Before this some young men went out into
the woods with their guns to find some
game for their families to eat, and while
they were gone the quail came and had
gone when the got back. They had bad
luck while they were out and killed nothing
and had to come back without anything to
eat for their families, and great was their
joy when they found everybody had plenty
to eat.—Deseret Evening News.


