[Column 1]
England as “Nankee Doodle,”—and the
Hollanders had the same air to a song called
“Yanker Dudel,”—the French claim it as
an old vintage song,—the Hungarians as a
native air,—the Biscayans as the ancient
music of the native sword dance. In June
1755, the regimental surgeon under Brad-
dock thought he’d play a joke on the rag-
ged, tattered Continentals, by palming off
this song of the time of Cromwell, on the
colonial soldiers as the latest martial music;
the tune at once caught the popular fancy;
but later the tables were turned and the
joke was on the other side, when the Conti-
nental band played “Yankee Doodle” as
Lord, Cornwallis marched out, after sur-
rendering his army, his sword and the
English colonies to the “Yankees.”
	In 1798 when Congress in session at
Philadelphia was debating what attitude to
assume in the struggle between France and
England, party feeling was intense and the
very air was at white heat with enthusiastic
patriotism. A young man who was a
singer at the Theatre in Philadelphia came
to his friend Joseph Hopkinson and begged
him to write a patriotic song adapted to the,
then, very popular music of the “President’s
March,” saying he knew it would save the
day. The following afternoon the song
“Hail Columbia” was ready and was ar-
ranged by a member of the orchestra to the
music known then as the “President’s
March.” It was duly and well advertised,
the house was packed and the song was en-
cored amid the wildest enthusiasm. It has
since been adopted by common consent as
the national anthem of America.
	Among the war songs none is a greater
favorite than “Marching Through Georgia.”
It is often called, and appropriately I think,
the “American Marseillaise.” It was 
written in 1865, by Henry C. Work, of
Chicago, a printer and remarkable song
writer: he often composed his songs at the
case as he set up type; and if he had access
to music type, the music also, the piece
seldom needing more than one or two alter-
ations. “Marching Through Georgia”
was written thus.
	Without doubt; “The Girl I Left Behind
Me” is of Irish origin. Neither author nor
date are certain but it is supposed to have
been written in 1758. It is the tune play-
ed by every man-of-war weighing anchor,
and regiments leaving a town where they
have been stationed always give this gal-
lant parting to the ladies. It is said to be
the most popular air among all soldiers and
sailors.
	But the marching song of the Nation is
“John Brown’s Body,” and it has a pecu-
liar history. When in 1859 John Brown
was hanged in Charlestown, Virginia, the
boys of Boston paraded the streets sing-
ing a monotonous chant, the burden of
which was “Go tell John Anderson John
Brown’s dead.” A year or so later Thane
Miller heard the melody of “John Brown’s
Body” in a colored church in Charleston,
South Carolina, and introduced it at a Y.
M. C. Association convention at Albany,
New York. James E. Greenwich, an
organist of Charleston Mass., fitted this
air to the first stanza of the present song.
It became a popular favorite and Charles S.
Hall wrote additional verses. Walter
Kittedge was drafted into the army in
1862, and while preparing to go to the
front he wrote the words and music in a few
minutes. Hundreds of thousands of copies
of this song have been sold.

