[Column 2]
her to reconsider her determination. It was
this episode she embalmed in poetry in the
song "In the Gloaming."
	The composition of Sir Arthur Sulli-
van's beautiful song, "The Lost Chord," is
linked with sad memories in the life of the
composer. One night during the last ill-
ness of his beloved brother Frederick, when
for three weeks he had watched night and
day beside him, as the end drew near he
fell into a peaceful sleep. Sitting by his
bedside Sir Arthur chanced to come across
Adelaide Procter's poems which five years
before had greatly impressed him; as he
read them over again in the stillness of the
night their musical equivalent seemed to
sound in his ears. A stray sheet of paper
was at hand and he began to write. He
grew absorbed in it as the music grew and
determined to finish the song; even if it
proved worthless in the cold light of day it
would have helped to while away the hours
of watching. Thus was written "The
Lost Chord," perhaps the most successful
as certainly one of the most beautiful songs
of modern times. Its sale already has ex-
ceeded two hundred and fifty thousand
copies.
	Mr. Sankey's song "Ninety and Nine"
was named originally by Mr. Moody "The
Lost Sheep." The great Evangelists were
holding meetings in England one night
when Mr. Moody asked Mr. Sankey if he
had any song on the text of "The Good
Shepherd." Mr. Sankey had found in a
paper, while on the train some days pre-
viously, a poem signed anonymous, cut it
out and slipped it into his pocket. There
are golden moments in the evangelists
work, this was one of them. Something
seemed to say to him over and over, "Sing
the verses you found on the train." He
opened his note book, took out the scrap
and the second thought came, "How can I
sing a song without a tune?" meanwhile
the audience was waiting; he gave one
moment to silent supplication then struck a
full chord on the organ and began to sing.
He did not know what chords he played or
what notes he sang, he was thinking of
that poor, lone sheep and the Good Shep-
herd who searched through the night and
brought it home, and somehow he got
through the first verse, then he paused and
played some chords waiting to begin the
second. He knew that every heart in that
vast audience was with him and that every
breath was held in expectation, and the
thought came, "Can I remember the notes
to sing the same tune as the first verse?"
He concentrated his mind and began to sing
again, and so went through the five verses.
The audience sat as still as death till he
finished with the last glad shout.

	"And the angels echoed around the throne,
	Rejoice for the Lord brings back His own."

When it was all over Mr. Moody came
down from the pulpit and putting his hand
on his friend's shoulder said, "My dear friend
where did you get that song? I never heard
anything like it." "That," said Mr.
Sankey. "is the poem I read to you on
the train and you didn't listen to it."

"There is in souls a sympathy with sounds;
And as the mind is pitched the ear is pleased
With melting airs, or martial, brisk or grave,
Some chord in unison with what we hear
Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	Read before the "Treble Clef," Wallace,
Ida., Dec. 24, 1897.


