[Column 1]
the Nottingham branch Relief Society, I
pen these few lines to you thinking perhaps
you would like to know how the Lord’s
vineyard is getting along here.
	Sister Barber desired me to tell you of a
social gathering we had at our meeting in
this the new year, which was held at the
home of our president. We had a very en-
joyable time all the evening. All the
members of the Relief Society were present,
also a few non-members. After supper
some of the sisters rendered some good
songs and speeches. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout and we all felt a renewed
determination to help each other as well as
the poor, and to do all we could to promul-
gate the Gospel.
	It would perhaps interest you to know
that a great many of the members in the
summer go out with the Elders and help
them in the singing, and their labors are
bearing fruit already. We have quite a
few investigators in the branch, some who are
going to be baptized at the first opportunity.
We have very good meetings on Sundays
and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit is
always present.
	I will close praying that the Spirit of the
Lord will always be with us to guide us in-
to the path of purity and right.
				Your sister in the Gospel
				EDITH CABLE, Sec. R. S.
	February 19, 1898.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Minutes of 21st ward Relief Society held
in the Society hall Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting
opened by singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Brother James Maxwell. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Counselor Martha B. Taylor pre-
sided.
	Elder L. John Nuttall offered some pre-
liminary remarks relative to the object and
purpose of the organization of the Relief
Society as contemplated by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and referred to the manner
of keeping accounts so as to consume as lit-
tle time as possible when assembled together
in meeting. Said while the distribution
of donations was an important part. still
there were higher motives and objects to be
attained by meeting together. We should
have lectures in the Society and endeavor to
use the time profitably, other than a few
bearing practically the same testimony over
and over again.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne, president of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, made
some very excellent remarks relative to the
purpose and organization of the Relief Soci-
ety, and said that the young as well as the
elderly people should associate themselves
with the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley said he was
pleased to meet with the sisters this after-
noon, and that the Society was a great as-
sistance to the Bishops in caring for the
poor and encouraged all to go on with the
work.
	Sister Ann O. Burt tendered her resigna-
tion as president and director of the 21st
ward Relief Society, the same was read by
Bishop M. S. Woolley. On motion the resig-
nation was unanimously accepted. On
motion Sister Frances L. Castleton was
elected a director of the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley read the resigna-
tion of Sister Annie M. Reynolds as director
and secretary of the Society, which was un-
animously accepted. On motion Sister
Mary A. Tuddenham was elected a director.
	Sister Jane Mulholland tendered her

