EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference.
	AN exquisite dinner party was given in
this city on Monday January 31, to about
fifty ladies, intimate friends of the honored
guest ot the occasion, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young. The party was given by Mes-
dames Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie at the residence of Mrs. Beatie. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards of Ogden was the only
missing guest. As it was also her birthday
as well as Mrs. Young’s the supposition was
she was detained at home by some recogni-
tion in her honor. The affair was a delight-
ful social success. Mrs. Young was the re-
cipient of many hearty congratulations and
expressions of tender affection. As a
mother in Israel no woman is more truly
beloved and appreciated by the Latter-day
Saints.
THE CLEOFAN.
	ON Tuesday afternoon Jan. 25, at 2. p.
m. at the club which met at the home of
Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, 27 C. St., Miss
Kate Wells read a carefully prepared paper
on “Sir Francis Bacon,” treating of his
life, reviewing his more important works
and quoting extensively from his essays.
An interesting paper on “Sir Walter Scott
Raleigh” by Mrs. F. Marian Dinwoodey
was read by Mrs Blanche P. Lee. There
was a very good attendance of the members
and the afternoon was a very pleasant one,
the topics being very interesting. The
next meeting of the club will be on Feb. 21
at the Ladies Literary club house where the
Cleofan expects to meet regularly hereafter.
	MRS. ISABEL WING LAKE and Dr. Caro-
lyn Giesel of Chicago, are here in the inter-
est of the mission work; they are working
in the department of Social Purity of the
National Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union and do effective work by the way as
they journey westward They are both
women of education, refinement and of large
experience in the field of humanity, earnest
and conscientious and are doing their work
methodically and as practically as it is pos-
sible to do this sort of reform work. They
have been in Denver and other parts of
Colorado recently ascertaining facts and
looking into the condition of the public
morals of the cities and large towns. For
the past week they have been in Provo
lecturing and have aroused considerable en-
thusiasm on the question of temperance,
purity and cigarrette smoking. Thursday
they visited the chief of police here and en-
quired into conditions in this city and con-
cerning laws and ordinances upon the
statute books. They will probably remain
here some time and hold a series of meet-
ings open to the public.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET has resigned
the presidency of the British Women’s Tem-
perance Association, as her health is too
much impaired for her to perform the
duties.


