U.W. P. C.

THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met as
per adjournment at the “Woman’s Ex-
ponent” office Monday, March 6, 1898.
The president. Dr. R. B. Pratt, being ab-
sent the vice-president, Mrs. R. H. Doolan,
occupied the chair. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. The roll call was re-
sponded to by quotations from Madame De
Stael. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed by
unanimous vote critic for the year.
	Under unfinished business the by-laws of
the club were read and discussion thereon
followed. Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that
Miss Laura Hyde be alternate director in
the State Federation of Utah Woman’s
Clubs, Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being director.
Motion carried.
	The question of issuing receipts for mem-
bership was also presented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and left over as unfinished business.
She then drew the club’s attention to the
George Washington Association, stating


that Margaret A. Caine had advanced in be-
half of the U. W. P. C. five dollars for
identification as a charter member. A dis-
cussion on ways and means followed and
the question was left as unfinished business.
	The secretary read a letter from the cor-
responding secretary of the Woman’s Club
inviting the appointment or a representative
to meet with them in general council for
discussing important questions of general
interest. Dr. Orielle Curtis nominated
Ruth M. Fox and the motion was carried.
	A letter was read from the acting chair-
man of the U. W. P. C. soliciting donation
of one dollar towards establishing traveling
libraries Motion agreeable to invitation
was carried.
	Mrs. Lawler was admitted as a member
and began the evening’s program with a
charming paper on France. Mrs. Rachel
Miller read one equally as interesting on
Noted Men of France. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox
gave a delightful short talk on Noted Wo-
men of France. The program was announc-
ed for next meeting, the minutes were read
and with one correction accepted, and the
club adjourned for one month.
Program for next, meeting: Paper on
Spain, Phebe C. Young; Cuba, Dr.
Orielle Curtis; Portugal, Emily S.
Richards. Poem, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
Quotations from Spanlsh authors.

