[Column 2]
of Stake presidents of  the organization.
Meeting opened by singing. “How firm a
foundation.” Prayer by President F. A.
Hammond of San Juan Stake. Singing
“Praise to the man” etc.
	President Zina D. H. Young made an
address of loving welcome to the sisters,
referred to the first organization of the Soci-
ety and stated that many prophecies uttered
then had already come to pass, which gave
us courage to believe that other predictions
would be literally fulfilled. She felt proud
of the daughters of Zion, reminded the con-
gregation that example was better than
precept; we had been blest abundantly
both spiritually and temporally, she thought
if Zion was to be the joy of the whole
world the sisters must have part in it, for a
great part of the world were females. She 
would like to hear the reports of those from
a distance.
	The secretary called the roll of Stakes
and twenty-seven responded. Minutes of
the October conference read and approved.
	President Jane S. Richards was glad we
could assemble in peace and love and medi-
tate on things spiritual when there was so
much stir in the world and talk of war and
so many changes taking place around us,
yet we had no confusion and could rejoice
in the Gospel and try to serve the Lord.
She often wondered if we were living to ob-
tain the promises made to those who were
true and faithful and sought to keep the
commandments given to the Saints. Ex-
horted mothers to be full of love and chari-
ty and kindness, referred to happiness in
the home, what a beautiful thing it was to
look back upon, and for herself it was a
great pleasure to recall her home with her
father and mother. Speaking of kind words
she recalled when she was coming out of
Nauvoo there was a brother who used to
speak kind words to her, when she was
very sick and felt as if she had more than
she could bear, it was a very great comfort
to her. Sister Richards urged the sisters to
pray for and sustain the president of the
Relief Society, Sister Zina D. H. Young,
“who needs your faith and who has not been
very well of late, and may we as sisters be
able to do all that will be for our salvation is
my prayer.”
	Sister B. W. Smith after some preliminary
remarks said we had come here to keep our
second estate if we can keep every command-
ment, observe the laws and regulations of
our holy religion, we should be kind and
good and encourage each other, setting
good examples and putting away the love
of riches and lay up treasures where moth
and rust doth not corrupt. Sister Smith
stated her time was mostly spent in the
Temple, she did not go out much to speak
to the sisters but met a great many in the
Temple constantly and she loved them.
“We know this work is true, we must try
and attend to our prayers, be patient and
just, set our minds to do something worthy.
We used to have Brother Joseph to teach
us, he said on one occasion he would not be
with us long and in his prayer at that time
his voice shook.” She would be glad to see
every Society have a house of its own, dedi-
cated on purpose, the brethren ought to as-
sist us, we have helped them so much, we
should have unison in all these things. “It
would be well if our children could realize
what we have passed through for the Gos-
pel, and the Gospel will be more to us than
riches that we may obtain what we desire,
that we may have homes to receive those


who are in need—there will be calamities
and war and famine and sickness, may
every blessing rest upon us in the name of
the Lord, amen.” 
	President M. A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake,
said “I don’t blame the sisters for being
diffident in standing up here, it is hard for
me. I will speak my feelings about a
house, and then when we come from all
parts of the State that there will be a re-
sponse all around. I attended conference
at Ephraim—Sisters Wells and Annie T.
Hyde were with us—the sisters in that
Stake are very industrious and devise many
ways and means to help build up the Soci-
ety.,’ Sister Hyde felt greatly exercised
about the youth of Zion, spoke of some
painful circumstances, the adversary is
evidently doing his part and we should do
ours; rejoiced that there were so many
present and hoped ere long we might meet
in our own house. Sister Hyde then spoke
a few words in the gift of tongues interpret-
ed by Sister Zina D. H. Young.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Stake, represented the Relief Society in the
unavoidable absence of the president: in the
course of his remarks he said, “I make it a
rule of my life to attend the conferences of
the Church and have always been blest in
attending. I don’t believe I ever have lost
a cent by coming.” Spoke well of the Re-
lief Society in his Stake, felt that the Soci-
ety was one of the strongest helps that the
Bishops had, the sisters not only pour in
the oil and the wine when any thing is
wanted but in other ways are helpful. “I
have been a strong advocate for the sisters
these many years, I take pleasure in their
labors, I have looked forward to the time
when the sisters would be sent on missions,
Sister Jennie Brimhall and Sister Lulu
Knight have been set apart and are now on
their way to England, our sisters will be
sent off to the nations of the earth and they
should have a knowledge for themselves.
I have advocated the education of our girls,
for this reason I am in favor of Church
schools. Speaking of a house for our sis-
ters I feel it is a proper thing, and it should
be a house dedicated for the purpose, there
is not a ward or Stake house where the sis-
ters have not aided; the Bishops throughout
Zion should help build a house for the Re-
lief Society. Sisters my faith is you will
succeed, a house where the general author-
ities would hold and arrange the affairs of
the Society. I feel to bless Aunt Zina and
her counselors, I have known them for
years, this is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.”
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President M. Isabella Horne.
