THE WOMAN’S SIGNAL.

(Editorial)
	MRS. RENTOUL ESLER generally writes
so justly and sensibly that I am sorry to
find signed by her pen the following ob-
servations:
	“A woman’s triumph in any practical call-
ing must always depend, in a measure, on
her youth where she plays a public part.
Does she sing? Does she act? Let youth
wane and her chances go with it. Were
positions ecclesiastical and legal open to
her, the result would be the same. Aver-
age abilily, with very good looks, will go
far; great abilities, with a bad appearance,
will in the case of a woman effect little in
the open. It is so human to regard woman
from a spectacular point of view, that age in
her wears some aspect of the ludicrous. An
old woman in the pulpit, on the platform,
in legal wig and gown, would evoke laugh-
ter. It is inevitable.”
			*	*	*
	So far from being inevitable that a wo-
man whose youth has waned shall be re- 
garded as ludicrous, it is happily not at all
true. It is the case that in the abstract the
phrase “an old woman” is used as a term of
contempt, and against this use every wo-
man who respects her sex should wage un-
ceasing war. No one in my presence ever
uses the term “an old woman” as a phrase
of scorn without being remonstrated with;
and when made to perceive what it really is
that they are saying—that age and woman-
hood combined are contemptible—most per-
sons admit that the phrase is not to be
justified, and will generally promise not to
use it again in that sense; but here is Mrs.
Esler actually endeavoring to justify an at-
tempt to regard as despicable the union of
these two honorable facts, and declaring on
her own account that age when combined
with womanhood is inevitably ludicrous!
That such an idea should exist so long as
women are regarded from the sexual point
of view is natural—an old woman from the
harem point of view is worse than useless.
But we European women have minds and
souls; and amongst us so much admirable
work is done by women who have entirely
passed that phase of life, that to continue
to use the phrases about age in women be-
longing to less enlightened times and cus- 
toms is a mistake.
			*	*	*
	Besides, the assertion that Mrs. Esler
commits herself to is nothing less than
practically absolutely untrue. Aged wo-
men do not “inevitably” receive ridicule.
There is a beauty that goes with youth, but
there is a beauty that comes with age, and
if both men and women too seldom succeed
in attaining the latter beauty, it is because 
in either case the life has been narrow and
cramped, or the expression has been dis-
figured by the continued indulgence of evil
tempers or mean thoughts. Age in itself
is venerable, and every right-minded per-
son feels it to be so. When it implies long
experience in wisdom and long practice in
goodness it will never be contemptible nor
will it look so. Many and many a woman
who in her youth had no pretensions to
girlish beauty becomes a handsome old lady
by virtue either of the continued use of her
intellect, or by her motherly cares or devel-
opment that they have given both to her
judgment and her affection.
			*	*	*

