[Column 1]
request of N. P. Willis, its editor, who
wanted a sea song. The last line of the
poem was the only sea line Dr. English
could think of, "Ben Bolt of the salt sea
gale." The air adapted to the song by
Nelson Kareass was from an old German
melody.
	"Maid of Athens" is a tribute by Lord
Byron to the beautiful Theresa Macri,
daughter of the English vice-consul at
Athens. Twenty-four years after the song
was written an Englishman in Greece
sought out the "Maid of Athens" and
found her married, the mother of a large
family, no traces of her beauty left and in
abject want and poverty.
	Samuel Woodworth, a tramp printer,
coming into his house one day, tired and
thirsty, poured out a glass of water and
drank it eagerly saying to his wife "How
refreshing that is, but how much more re-
freshing would be a good long draught
from the old oaken bucket in my father's
well at home." His wife suggested that it
would be a good subject for a poem and
under the inspiration of the moment he
wrote "The Old Oaken Bucket."
	"The Angel's Whisper" by Samuel
Lover, is based on the old superstition in
Ireland that when a child smiles in its
sleep it is listening to the angels. The
music is an old Irish air, "Mary do ye
Fancy Me?"
	"Kathleen Mavourneen," usually spoken
of as having been written by Professor F.
Nicolks Cronch, was in reality the work of
Mrs. Louise M. Crawford, an English poet.
She was the collaborator of Proffessor
Cronch in the issue of several books of
songs; she writing the words, he t[--] music.
	It is one thing to sit in a theatre in New
York amid a scene of brilliant glitter and
fashion and hear the marvelous voice of
Patti rippling on the melody of "Way
Down upon de Swanee Ribber" and anoth
er to travel through the South till one
comes suddenly upon the clear, silent waters
of this stream. Just how this narrow little
sand-bottomed, blue-watered river, that
plays so small a part on the map of the
United States as does the Swanee, could
ever have become, all because of a mere
song, so famous in this wide world, seems
strange. "The old Folks at Home,"
sometimes called the "Swanee River" was
written by Stephen C. Foster and is a
great favorite the world over.
	"The Old Kentucky Home" also written
by Foster, is said to have been suggested to
him on hearing an old negro speak with
love and longing of his old home in Ken-
tucky. Several of Mr. Foster's songs were
composed on brown paper in the back room
of a little grocery store in New York.
"Massa's in de Cold. Cold Ground" is one of
his best compositions; he got the idea of
this song in Covington, Kentucky. He
heard a slave bewailing the fact that his
good old master was dead, and that now he
and other old slaves worn out in service,
would pass into the hands of less kindly
owners. Foster wrote both music and
words of his songs.
	Lord Arthur Hill had a romantic woo-
ing. His present wife acted in the capacity
of companion to his mother, the Marchion-
ess of Devonshire, and while she knew his
love for her and reciprocated, she felt a
marriage with her would be against his in-
terest and so without saying a word she sud-
denly disappeared. With many difficulties
he discovered her whereabouts and induced

