[Column 2]
To take a very illustrious example. 
Queen Victoria has no beauty of the com-
mon kind, but if Mrs. Esler has ever seen
Her Majesty (as I have done many times)
she must know that nothing can be farther
from the truth than describing the public
appearances of this aged woman as "ludi-
crous.” The remarkable dignity, the ele-
vated grace that are diffused around the per-
son of the Queen—old, short, stout, plain
though she be—are the most striking testi-
mony to the power of a life spent in a noble
way to give beauty of its own kind, and an
aspect than which nothing can be less ludi-
crous, to an old woman. The only person
whom I have ever asked to speak on a Wo-
man Suffrage platform solely on the ground
of her looks was Mrs. Margaret Bright
Lucas, who must have been well on to-
wards sixty when I employed this argument
as a reason why she should speak at suf-
frage meetings. Mrs. Lucas declared that
she was no speaker, and I said to her “That
does not matter; just stand up a little while
and let them look at you,” for I saw that
the beauty of high thoughts in her mind
through many years of life had so stamped
her face and her whole person with dignity
and sweetness that her mere presence would
have value in pleading such a cause. Again,
we have been in my home for the last week
or two in continual admiration of the beauti-
ful countenance of Miss Frances Power
Cobb at the age of seventy, as shown in a
photograph which she has kindly given to
my daughter. The first woman whom I
(when I was perhaps fourteen) ever heard
speak on a public platform was the late
Clara Lucas Balfour, who was probably
then between sixty and seventy, and who
looked the embodiment of wisdom and dig-
nity as she sat beside a table and quietly in-
terested an audience of several hundreds in
a very large hall for over an hour At the
Woman’s Congress at Chicago, every hall
was crammed with eager crowds when it
was announced that Susan B. Anthony
aged seventy-one, was going to speak.
Elizabeth Fry was over fifty when she was
called to her chief work—did she inevitably
excite redicule? Was “the Mother of the
Salvation Army” laughable in the pulpit?
Nay but age added power and honor to
each! It is by no means true then that
age in a woman, even when seen on the
platform itself, evokes laughter, or that it
is inevitably ludicrous for a woman to have
passed her youth; to say this kind of thing
ought to have been left to men who write
sporting papers for Sunday issue.
 			*	*	*
	Statements of this kind take on a sort of
personal interest when one has just had (as
I have) a forty-third birthday. One does
not know exactly what is the age at which
Mrs. Esler counts the inevitably ludicrous
age to set in. but assuredly I have no ex-
pectations or intentions of either forsaking
the platform or being ridiculous at present!
The professions that she chooses to name
are the two in which youth is particularly
precious—on the stage the actress loses
position as soon as she gets too old to repre-
sent youthful heroines, since youth is the
period of the ordinary stage romance; and
on the concert platform, the voice that is
all-important loses something, after a time,
by diminished freshness; yet is it not the
case that Ellen Terry and Adelina Patti,
both women over fifty, are even there the
most popular, the most highly paid and fol-
lowed of their class of workers? Nor do

[Column 3]
the far older women of the stage itself who
submit to take parts suitable to them be-
come ludicrous—how charming, for in-
stance, was Mrs. Sterling when she was
nearer seventy than sixty! No, no! Age
is not inevitably ludicrous in a woman!
			*	*	*
	This is not to deny the power of youth,
however. Like Ibsen’s hero in “The
Master Builder,” middle-aged people must
always respectfully and half fearfully “hear
the younger generation knocking at the
door.” We must all recognize the im-
portance of the adhesion to any work of
those whose powers are fresh and unworn,
and whose share of life will probably
stretch through the coming years long after
the grass grows green over the graves
where the holders of the place and power of
today will be silent and impotent for fur-
ther service. There is a charm in the
springtime of life that we all feel and own.
Especially is this true of public work.
Tenderly do we regard the young people
who seem ready to lend their growing
strength to the causes and efforts that we
have carried on for long years—to catch up
the banner that we feel must drop from our
wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at
once take their course, though it be up the
Hill Difficulty, to our cherished goal, not-
withstanding the attractions of the flowery
meads in which they might linger and play
a little longer. Prophetic hope, sympathy
for toil and danger that we know too well
and see them brightly and unconsciously
facing, joy in the beauty of their unworn
freshness—all this we their elders must feel.
As Mrs. Browning says—

		Great men who foreknew
Their heirs in art, for art’s sake have been glad,
And bent their old white heads as though un-
	crowned,
Fanatic of their pure ideals still,
Rather than of their laurels which were gained
With some less stalwart effort of the will.
			*	*	*
	So, dear girls, beautiful in your youthful
bloom, who care for any work or who are
laboring to obtain excellence and do credit
to your own and your sex’s abilities in any
direction, your effort is gladly appreciated,
without its being admitted that your grand-
mothers are “necessarily ludicrous,” or that
you will become so as soon as your youth is
past. True it is that in many occupations
young people have the preference in ob-
taining employment; they are stronger in
body, more tractable in mind, and likely to
become more and more useful for years on-
ward, instead of pretty soon wearing out
and growing a burden on an employer’s
kindness and consideration. But this pain-
ful fact applies to men as well as to women
and has nothing to do with the loss of at-
tractiveness in looks, nor does it generally
occur in the case of intellectual or highly
skilled employments, but only in those in
which experience gives little of no increase
of capacity. For instance, in our own do-
mestic experience, few of us would care to
engage a new housemaid over forty, be-
cause of the thoughts above mentioned; but
we should not hesitate to take a well recom-
mended cook of that age and a good deal
more, because her probably increased ex-
perience would counter-balance any such
disadvantages. The moral is for young peo-
ple to try to select and rise in occupations
in which brains and experience are more
valuable than looks and mere smartness of
muscular movement.


