[Column 2]
Tonga Islands the most independent people
imaginable. That this has a tendency to
make them lazy and indolent is but natural.
The average Tongan is not supposed to
work more than about one day in a week.
	The absence of running streams or rivers
is one of the characteristics of the Friendly
Islands. There are only two very insig-
nificant exceptions throughout the 
whole group. Those occur at Vavan and
Ena. For soft water the inhabitants de-
pend entirely upon what is collected from
the clouds, either in tanks or clay pits called
by the natives lebas. The rainy months
are December, January and February. The
average temperature during the entire year
is 76, Fahrenheit. During the hot months
from December to March the thermometer
frequently ranges at 90 and even 96 in the
shade. The islands are subject to hurri-
canes which seem to recur with periodical
regularity and always in the rainy season
from December to March. “The full force
of the cyclone falls upon one or other of
the three groups, at intervals of about seven
years,” writes the Rev. Thomas West.
“The hurricane gives but few indications of
its approach. The wind rises suddenly, ac-
companied by heavy rain and its duration,
strength and progress in any given locality
depends upon its being nearer to, or more
remote from the center of the wind circle.
No tongue or pen can possibly convey an
adequate idea of these visitations. Heaven
and earth appear to be on the move; and
as for the sea, the grandeur is altogether in-
describable. The rush of the irresistable
tempest; the cracking and fall of trees on all
sides; branches hurled through the air;
cocoanuts torn from the trees and flung in
all directions with the velocity of a cannon
ball; a deluge of rain, unusual darkness and
the crash of falling houses; all of these at-
tendants upon a hurricane make up one of
the most dismal and terrific pictures in
natural phenomena. The destruction of
dwelling houses and other buildings usually
attendant upon these visitations must, how-
ever, be attributed not merely to the force
of the wind, but also in a great measure to
the torrents of rain. The fact is the heavy
rain soon saps the foundation of the large
posts upon which the security of the build-
ing depends. Gradually the wind sways
the superstructure to and fro, and at
every gust opens and widens the earth
around the sockets of the posts, until the
entire fabric loses its equilibrium and
coming down with a crash, all its posts and
beams however tough and thick are snapped
like so many carrots.” During a hurricane
in Vavan many years ago thirty-four out of
thirty-nine Wesleyan chapels were blown
down, though these buildings were the very
best and strongest constructed by the peo-
ple. All the islands are subject to earth-
quakes which are both frequent and violent.
	Speaking about rain storms in the tropics
my husband relates an experience he had in
Samoa. While crossing a lava bed about
twelve miles in extent together with a
traveling companion, a regular tropical rain
storm came upon them; and such a storm
conveys the sense of “pouring” more than
raining to the average American. Seeing
the storm approach my husband in speak-
ing to his companion expressed the regret
that they had taken no overcoats along.
“Overcoats,” responded his companion,
“just look at me, and if you like you can
follow my example.” To his surprise his
companion immediately undressed himself

[Column 3]
and put his clothing in his little hand satch-
el. My husband hesitated but finally did
likewise, and ihe result was that when the
storm abated they both had dry clothes to
put on.


