A STRONG TESTIMONY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	AFTER reading in the "Woman's Ex-
ponent" of the goodness of our Heavenly
Father manifested towards the women of
Utah, it causes my heart to long for the
time to come when I can be with them and
enjoy the same blessings. The Saints here
in England enjoy many blessings for which
they are very thankful, but they know
there are blessings in Zion that they cannot
have here.
	I belonged to the Church of England for
thirty years, and endeavored in my weak
way to follow out its teachings. I did not
have a strong enough foundation for my
faith, and hence it was too weak to bring
me joy and happiness. I remember how I
used to ponder over in my mind the time of
our beloved Savior and His Apostles, and
wonder to myself why we were not privi-
leged to enjoy the same blessings that they
enjoyed in those days. How strange! Is it
possible the Savior would bestow upon His
children in those days all these promised
blessings and then neglect us who are just
as devoted as they were? These thoughts
often passed through my mind and caused
me to entertain the idea that the church I
had belonged to for so long was not identi-
cal with the Church Jesus established while
here upon the earth.
	In consequence of this I began to feel
unsettled and wondered why such should
be the case. I then began to read and
pray, that I might learn something more of
the true church of Christ, and for over two
years I went from church to church in
search of the one that most resembled the
one established by the Savior. I continued
doing this until I became almost discouraged
but am thankful to say the hand of Provi-
dence was over me, and I was led to a fam-
ily of Latter-day Saints who invited me to
attend their meetings. This led to an in-
vestigation of what they taught, and in a
short time I learned the great reason for all
the different sects of Christianity being void
of the "gifts and blessings" that character-
ized the Primitive church. I learned of
the great apostacy that had swept over the
earth, and how the Lord in consequence of
this had taken from the midst of His people
the everlasting Gospel and all the gifts and
blessings which were enjoyed by those who

