CLARA BARTON ARRIVES.

	TAMPA Fla., April 12.—The steamship
Olivette, which arrived here from Havana
brought 250 refugees from Cuba, also Miss
Barton, president of the Red Cross Society
and her staff. Miss Barton said:
	“It is the duty of the Red Cross Society
to follow in the wake of the army rather
than to lead it, and wherever duty calls
there you will find us. In the present in-
stance we simply deemed discretion the
better part of valor. The original treaty of
Geneva provides only for relief in war. The
extensions of the provisions of the treaty
to include other disasters was a special con-
cession made to the American Red Cross
upon its accession to the treaty and known
as the American amendment.
	"The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admis-
sible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepared to sweep the island it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatened field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait.”
	Since arriving here Miss Barton has re-
ceived from prominent men in New York
requests that the society lend its aid to alle-
viate the suffering on the part of the desti-
tute Cuban element of this city. Miss Bar-
ton will have a consultation with the May-
or of the city, which will probably result in
her securing speedier relief for the sufferers.


TWO of Tennyson’s sisters are living, the
youngest in her 81st year.

	THE March number of Jeness Miller's
Monthly pays a warm tribute to the work
of "Jennie June" Croly among the Womens’
Clubs. Mrs. Croly is at work upon a "His-
tory of the Woman’s Club Movement in
America" which is to be published under
the auspices of the General Federation.

	A DATE in mid-September, 1898, will
probably be the day upon which Queen
Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take
the oath of accession to the Dutch throne.
No one could have shown more tact in
managing affairs of State during her daugh-
ter’s minority than the Queen Regent, who
like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a
person of singularly unpretentious manners
and simple tastes. This is shown in her
daily habits and surroundings. Her Majes-
ty, for instance, although for more formal
communications she uses thick white writ-
ing paper with the crown and royal coat
of arms emblazoned in gold and scarlet and
blue, uses for everyday familiar letters,
paper merely stamped with her name
"Emma," and a crown. In dress also she
is inclined to simplicity, and she follows, in
preference to leading the fashion.


