[Column 2]
	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Feb. 5, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Singing “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
testify of the goodness of God, those who
testified of God He would bring up in re-
membrance before Him. Spoke of improv-
ing our talents, if we only had one we
should make the most of it, this was the
word of the Lord. There was not one of
the sisters if she had the Spirit of the Lord
and attempted to speak, no matter how lit-
tle she said, but that some one would be
benefited by it. Said she hoped that all
would feel free that we might have a good
time together.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown felt it was
good for us to meet together if only to
praise the Lord. She enjoyed so much
hearing President Horne speak and knew
she had a world of knowledge to impart by
which we were always benefited. Said her
heart was full of rejoicing for the blessings
of the Lord and thought we should always
try to live so that we might feel this way.
Said many of the dead for whom she had
officiated had appeared to her in dreams and
she knew they were pleased for what she
had done.
	Sister Ford said her heart was full of re-
joicing, and spoke of administering to the
poor; said those who gave to the poor
loaned to the Lord and felt to say God bless
those men who had so generously given to
the poor, also prayed God would bless all
who were here this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and spoke of the goodness of
God to her. She loved her brothers and
sisters; the scriptures said when we loved
one another we had the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt it was not
right to let the precious moments go to
waste, referred to the hymn just sung “Let
those who would be Saints indeed,” said
never before had it struck her so forcibly,
thought there was a sermon in it and urged
all to read it. Said she felt much edified by
the remarks of President Horne, expressed
her anxiety for the young people and said
she heard Brother Andrew Jensen say that
the Scandinavians were forming an asso-
ciation to look after the young girls of their
nationality, thought this was a very worthy
object. Prayed that the Lord would help
us to remember what we had heard this
afternoon and referred to a prophecy of
Brother Heber C. Kimball wherein he said
that the time would come when we could
not pick up a paper which would not be
filled with terrible things which would
make our hearts sick. Thought the time
had indeed come.
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
class work of Sister Sorenson and the great
amount of good she was doing, the object
was the same as President Young advocated,
to study our bodies and make good mothers.
	Sister Carrie Kester urged the sisters to
attend these classes. Sister Phelps felt the
Lord was pouring out His Spirit upon His
daughters, and thought it was the young
men that needed to be labored with instead
of the girls.
	Sister Butterworth testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in raising her little
grand son from almost death. He was

[Column 3]
very ill but had been healed by the power
of the Lord, and felt very grateful for her
many blessings.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony and
spoke very feelingly in regard to the pro-
tection of young girls who were compelled
to work out for their living, and urged the
sisters to use their influence with those who
hired girls to throw over them a mother’s
watch care.
	President Horne had enjoyed the beauti-
ful testimonies of the sisters. She thought
every one who hired help should have a
watch care over them; and knew there was
a great deal of iniquity abroad, but hoped
the time would come when such would not
be the case. 
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor C.
C. Cannon.
