[Column 2]
ance of the laws of God. A number of the
sisters bore testimonies, and all felt to re-
joice in the great work of the last days.
	President C. R. Hakes exhorted the
Saints to awake and make the warfare
against a spirit of evil and iniquity stronger
and harder until we should have helped to
redeem the inhabitants of the earth.
	Many good seeds were sown in the hearts
of those present, and all felt blest in coming
ttogether in this meeting. Adjourned fo
hree months. Benediction by President
Hakes.
			F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	ON February 11, 1898, the sisters of the
several branches comprising the Parowan
Stake Relief Society held their seventieth
quarterly conference in the ward Tabernacle
of Cedar City. The weather being un-
favorable the attendance was not so large as
it otherwise might have been. The five
wards comprising the Stake organizations
were represented as progressing favorably:
The work of gathering grain for the time of
need is being systematically carried on by
the sisters, the Stake having 1,480 bushels
and 30 pounds on hand at the present time.
	The instructions during our meeting were
principally exhorting parents, mothers es-
pecially, to train their children in their
youth in the principles of the work we as
Latter-day Saints are engaged in, for the
impressions made in childhood are never
forgotten. We should impress upon our
little ones the necessity of prayer and teach,
them to have faith in the Lord. The sub-
jects of intemperance and the word of wis-
dom were also spoken upon.
	As is customary at our conferences, Stake
President U. T. Jones with his counselors,
Francis Webster and Henry Leigh, and
several other brethren were in attendance
and by request a number of them addressed
the congregation, their good counsel being
duly appreciated by all present.
	The business attended to during the con-
ference was the reading of reports and sus-
taining of local officers. Sister Ann E.
Webster was sustained as first counselor to
Stake President Mary Ann Lunt, thereby
filling the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Sage T. Jones. Sister Webster acted
in the capacity of president of the Cedar Re-
lief Society from 1886 to 1897, when she
was honorably released, her successor
being Ann A. Thorley with Mary A. Arm-
strong and Lucy M. Jones first and second
counselors.
	During the past year quite a number of
the sisters belonging to the Cedar Society
have been called away by the hand of death
and their presence and their words of
counsel are alike missed. In January two
members, Margaret Unthank and Margaret
Froyd, both faithful good workers in our
Society every ready to assist and for a
number of years acting as teachers, depart-
ed from us, also Sister Amanda Rollo,
another good, faithful member soon follow-
ed. Death is inevitable, hence the necessity
of living not for ourselves alone but by do-
ing good whenever we have the opportuni-
ty, if only by a kind word.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at
Paragoonah in three months.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	At the request of our president, Sister
Sarah Barber, and also the members of this


