THE PRESENT INDICATIONS.

	THE times are replete with news of crime,
disaster and war cry from various quarters of
the earth, and though here in Utah there is
less of the confusion that seems so apparent
in many places, yet we doubt not Utah will
have more or less that will be momentous,
and that will require wisdom and good
judgment to withstand. Some people are
really of the opinion that there will be war
in the United States, or on its borders, in
which the country will be obliged to parti-
cipate. The condition of Cuba does seem
deplorable and naturally one would think
that this country should send help and re-
lief if not wholly to espouse her cause.
Clara Barton has started for the scene of
the disaster and is well qualified to under-
take the work of relieving the sufferers as far
as human aid and woman’s tender minis-
tration can alleviate pain. Meantime the
United States is sending two naval ships to
the island with provisions for the sufferers.
The supplies were furnished by the New
York Cuban Relief Society.
	The various opinions concerning the
Maine seem to be resolving themselves into
one view which some took from the begin-
ning, that it was accidental, which cer-
tainly is a charitable construction to put
upon a very serious matter.
	The trial and conviction of Emile Zola has
turned the heads of half the people in Paris
—now that he has actually been sentenced
it is to be hoped they will cease their up-
roar and that peace may prevail, at least for
a time.
	But that there will be peace altogether is
too much to expect, for the Scriptures must
be fulfilled and also the prophecies of mod-
ern prophets. It is really refreshing, how-
ever, that as the Spring opens prosperity
heightens for the people who have risked
their lives in the gold regions of Alaska;
but it seems strange to state that thousands
of women are preparing to go to the Klon-
dike district as soon as Spring opens. Far
better would it be to stay at home and fol-
low some domestic employment such as
sericulture which is sure to bring safe re-
turns for labor—than to risk life and limb
for fabulous gold—which is really more
like a fable than a real fact, whereas it is
known that silk in a salable condition is al-
ways marketable. It does not appear
natural that women should be gold hunters
but to raise silk worms and reel silk has
always been remunerative, ever since the
fabric became known.
	It is time now that those who wish to en-
gage in this industry should begin to make
preparations and be ready for a start when
the Spring opens. There are thousands of
mulberry trees in the State and the leaves
might be utilized to good advantage; and
idleness is rampant in the towns and cities.
Even men need not be ashamed of this
employment, it is quite as much in their
line as tailoring and many other things;
but it does require thought and investiga-
tion and now is the time to begin to study
the art of raising silk worms. Several
books have been published by those who
were desirous of encouraging this industry
and are given away. The Utah Silk Com-
mission have some published recently which
can be obtained on application, and there
are a hundred or more in this office which
we have permission to distribute.


