OVATION TO EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	NEVER were the finer instincts of true
poetic natures more richly feasted than on
the evening of February 26, 1898, when an
ovation was given to Sister Emmeline B.
Wells in honor of the publication of her
poetical writings, “Musings and Memories.”
	Over a hundred ladies all friends, “tried
and true,” of the gifted lady, met at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center
St. After cordial greetings and congratu-
lations the hostess was given the honor of
chairman. The program was composed al
most entirely from Mrs. Wells’ poems—and
opened with the Ladies singing “Our
Mountain Home so Dear.” Our veteran
Mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella Horne,
then drew us near to the throne of God
with sacred invocation. The chairman
then called the name of each lady, who re-
sponded with a sentiment from the little
book whose birth we were celebrating.
Miss Olea Shipp sang “True Friendship”
in her sweet contralto, after which Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder gave an elaborate and en-
tertaining review of the book, which was
listened to with enrapt attention. Mrs.
Maggie Bassett and Mrs. Pearl Fernstrom,
nee Russell, sang in their sweetest voices and
Miss Ellis R. Shipp read “The Happy
Maiden.”
	How often have we felt our hearts thrilled
by childrens’ voices singing “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” but never did the
words sound sweeter than at this time when
it was sung by ten little girls in white
dresses, white flowers in their hair and
creamy roses in their hands. The senti-
ment of loving gratitude of thousands of
childish hearts was expressed when they
laid their tribute of flowers in the author’s
lap, receiving in turn kisses and sweet
smiles through dewy tears.
	The name of Dr. R. B. Pratt was then
called who in a few well chosen words pre-
sented to Mrs. Wells in behalf of many
friends, a beautiful book which was a poem
in itself—it being unique in that it was en-
tirely original, each page representing in-
dividual work of nearly a hundred ladies.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:—Your book of poems,
a long looked for treasure, is now a beauti-
ful, tangible fact and its perusal gives us
sweet pleasure, profit and consolation.
	It is a shining leaf in your “laurel
wreath” of fame with which you stand en-
crowned on your seventieth birthday anni-
versary.
	Your sheaf of years, bound with the
golden cord of love, sympathy and helpful-
ness towards your many friends is fraught
with histories both sweet and sad, but
borne with such fortitude, energy and full
fruition of noble works as is encompassed
rarely in the lives of mortals.
	May your remaining days be less ardu-
ous but even more full of desires accom-
plished; and may the sun of peace and
prosperity and fame ever grow brighter as
you wend your way toward the sunset of
life.
	This book of flowers and sentiments
which I have the honor to present to you,
reflects in every leaf the love and affection
and taste of an individual friend. May it in
days to come be a sweet reminder of our

