U. W. P. C.
THE U. W. P. C. met by appointment
on the evening of Jan. 31, 1898, in the
pleasant parlors of Mrs. Belle Bunnell.
Prayer was offered by Lucy A. Clark. The
roll call was responded to by sentiments
from Goethe. Under unfinished business
to a former motion that each member fur-
nish a cup, saucer, plate and spoon, an
amendment was made that a glass tumbler
be added and that they be taken to the
“Exponent” office before Feb. 28.
	Mrs. Camilla C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams were accepted as members of
the club. A letter from Mrs. Lulu Lee
Steele, secretary of the Educational com-
mittee of the U. W. P. C., was read and a
motion was carried that the president of the
club appoint three members as an educa-
tional committee—Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen
V. Kimball and Hattie Harker were accord
ingly appointed. The by-laws of the club
were read by the secretary and discussed by
the members. The secretary also read a
letter from Mrs. Martha Burgess Jennings
in which was offered the suggestion that
the club join the General Federation of
Clubs; discussion thereon followed after
which a motion was carried to the effect
that the U. W. P. C. join the General
Federation of Clubs. Mrs. I. Cameron
Brown was elected delegate to the General
Federation of Clubs to be held in Denver
the coming June, Rachel Miller was elected
alternate.
	The program opened with a song sweetly
rendered by Mrs. Maggie Bassett. A very
complete paper on Germany was read by
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox. A selection on the
guitar and mandolin was delightfully ren-
dered by Mrs. Belle Bunnell and her son,
Mr. Mark Bunnell. “Notable German
Men” was read by Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan
and "Notable German Women" by Mrs.
Hattie Harker. Mrs. Camilla C.Cobb sang
charmingly in German and Mrs. Belle Bun-
nell recited “The Earl King” in the Ger-
man language.
	The secretary read the programme for
the next meeting to be held at the home of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center St. The min-
utes of the meeting were read and with two
corrections accepted. Benediction by Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Delicate German refreshments
were served, a pleasant finale to a delightful
evening.
