[Column 1]
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Anderson.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Opening prayer by Brother J.
F. Dorius. President Hyde was pleased
with the reports of the various wards. En-
couraged the storing of grain, and all good
works pertaining to the Relief Society.
	Sister Annie Hyde was pleased to have
another opportunity of meeting with the
sisters of Sanpete, and urged the necessity
of a spirit of love and charity. Said that
the Spirit of the Lord would not dwell
where there was strife and contention. Ex-
horted the mothers to train their children in
the way they should go to become faithful
Latter-day Saints. Also referred to the
Prophet Joseph.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke words of
comfort and blessing to President Peterson
and the sisters in the gift of tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Wells.
	President Peterson said “We are living in
an interesting age of the world, but the
signs of the times indicate that the end is
near.” Also made some remarks on the
life of the Prophet Elijah.
	Elder Andrew Jensen was the next
speaker. He dwelt upon the duties and re-
sponsibilities of mothers in training the
children when the fathers were absent in
the mission field. Spoke of the danger of
allowing scoffers and unbelievers to associate
with our children, and related a circum-
stance of this kind which had come under
his observation. Eulogized the good
work of the Relief Society.
	“MRS. ANNIE M. BROWN, of Brattleboro,
has been appointed by Attorney General
Griggs as clerk of the United States Attor-
ney’s Department for the district of Ver-
mont. Most of the depositions and other
legal testimony taken stenographically in
Brattleboro and vicinity for some time past
has been taken by Mrs. Brown, and she is
regarded as fully competent.”
	Sister Wells said we should improve in
our duties, but should work on the founda-
tion which has been laid. Paid tribute to
the sterling virtues and good works of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow and others of the aged
and faithful sisters who have labored so
long. Considered the Relief Society the
greatest organization of women in the
world. Was pleased to state that we had
branches of the Relief Society in Chicago,
California, Holland and Scandinavia. She
spoke of the necessity of encouraging the
silk industry.
	Singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by J. F. Dorius.

