[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Northern States Rachel Grant Taylor]

Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission, won the applause from the Relief Society women assembled when she made a plea for instructions in mothercraft to be given to young girls, in connection with maternity welfare work. Girls should not only know how to cook and sew, and something of algebra and history, but they should also have some knowledge of the wonderful mission of creation which has been entrusted to them. Mrs. Taylor spoke of the classes which she formerly conducted at the L. D. S. University, where girls were instructed in mothercraft, and where, in addition, the girls were taught to make layettes in the sewing classes of the school. They took much more interest in making these baby clothes than in making clothing for themselves.
LEADERSHIP IN THE STAKE Counselor Jennie B. Knight
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight began her discussion of "Leadership in the Stake" by saying, "A leader in any community is one who has intelligent understanding of the work that is to be


done, and is loyal and persistent in carrying out this work. A leader in Relief Society work must carry out the policies of the organization, and have vision of the work that is before her. Broad fields of vision will be opened during the sessions of the Relief Society conference, which will be a guide to our future work. Those among us who catch the vision and are able to make it practical in our work, will be the successful leaders."
One of the first requirements for a Relief Society leader is to have within her heart a testimony of the gospel, and a feeling that she has been called to her position through the Spirit of the Lord directing those who are in authority. Relief Society leaders, in their various callings, are representatives of the Lord, representatives of the stake priesthood president, representatives of the stake Relief Society president, and stand as proxies for the General Board in carrying the instructions of the board in all the communities where branches of the organization exist. Mrs. Knight asked her hearers to study the gospel and live the gospel in order that they might teach it more effectively. "If we have these three qualifications: that we know the gospel, teach the gospel, and live the gospel, then we are truly leaders." Mrs. Knight urged the stake leaders to be observant of the activities of other stakes, and to take advantage of the reports and suggestions which are offered through the columns of the Magazine in the "Notes From the Field" department. Stake leaders should be receptive to all good and progressive ideas in order that they may be able to better conditions in their stakes. They should read magazines and text books relative to the lessons which are outlined, and relative to the various phases of Relief Society work. Stake leaders should know not only the details of stake work, but of ward work as well. They should know whether the charity work is being looked after in the most efficient manner, whether the literary work is being received as it should be whether the work and business meetings are being conducted in a satisfactory way, and whether the teachers' work is proving beneficial, both to the teachers and to those whom they visit. The speaker emphasized the importance of careful planning for Relief Society meetings, conferences, and conventions. Regular stake board meetings should be held, in order that activities of the stake may be well planned, and in order that instructions from the General Board may be made known as soon as possible after their receipt, and arrangements made for carrying out the instructions in the various wards of the stake. The preparation for group conventions should receive serious consideration. Upon receiving notification of the date and program of the meetings of the convention, the Relief Society stake president should first consult her stake president, and acquaint him with the plan for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 283 the meetings, and then make arrangements for the rooms for the use of the Relief Society. Then the details of the arrangements should be very carefully worked out, so that when the women arrive at the convention, their time will not be wasted by having to go considerable distance for their department work, or by having to wait while chairs are brought in from other rooms. Mrs. Knight stressed the importance of Relief Society stake officers cooperating with the stake presidency, and ward officers cooperating with the bishops, which will insure the help and support of the priesthood authorities in the plans and activities of the organization. Afternoon Session ANNUAL REPORT PRESENTED The annual report was presented by the general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and the comparisons with reports of other years showed growth and development in all departments of the Relief Society. This report is published in full in the May issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Lyman expressed appreciation for the splendid and efficient work done by the stake secretaries in compiling and forwarding the stake reports, many of which were perfectly compiled. The major part of the time of the afternoon session was devoted to a consideration of "Educational Work in the Relief Society."" Topics under this subject were treated by members of the General Board in the order in which they follow. THE STAKE CLASS SUPERVISOR Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Member of General Board First of all, a supervisor should have the spirit of her work. Secondly, she should have time for her work, and should be ' willing to make the necessary preparation for it. Stake supervisors, whether. Class supervisors or activity supervisors, should consult often with the Relief Society stake president. By consultation needless confusion and misunderstanding is prevented. That which a supervisor might feel would be worthy of special mention, might not be the thing that the president would emphasize. Therefore, free consultation with the president concerning the work which has been given for supervision will prevent misunderstandings. It is the duty of the stake class supervisor to be well prepared with her lessons. In most stakes there is a supervisor for each course of study and there is therefore no reason for unpreparedness.. The supervisor can be of great help to ward class leaders 
 by giving the lessons in union meetings, by furnishing apt and interesting references, and by visiting the ward classes as a means of checking up the work and surveying the special needs in each ward class, A great satisfaction in the Relief Society class work is the knowledge that in every branch in the Church, on a given day, the same lesson is being given. This is a great inspiration to every one concerned. Uniform study, unified effort in activities, and a spirit of love, make for progress and development. The General Board has asked that in the wards a few minutes' time of the work and business meeting be used for a discussion of the teachers' topic, and it would be a good plan for stake workers to see if this is being carried out. THE WARD CLASS LEADER Counselor Louise Y. Robison In our great organization there are many offices and positions that need specialized workers. We have been too apt in the past to ask people whom we knew were dependable and faithful to fill offices regardless of their other qualifications, and oftentimes these people have not been the ones who would make those offices the strongest. In our work in the Relief Society it is necessary to have the president, counselors, secretary, and other officers, and class leaders, and necessary that all should have the same spirit, but there should be and is a diversity of gifts among them, and there are diversified needs in the work. One of the most important workers in the organization is the class leader, who should be a person having special qualifications. All ward presidents realize that they need class leaders to begin work in the fall of the year, but if they have not given this matter any thought and attention prior to this time, they will be at a loss to secure the right kind of women to act in this capacity. Officers should be alert and keep their eyes open for good material. They will often discover college girls and school teachers who have not become affiliated with any organization, but who would make very capable class leaders in the organization, if they were invited to take up the work. There are several qualifications for the ideal class leader. First would be her spirituality, which is fundamental; secondly, her dependability, for if a class leader is not dependable, if she is not prepared or is often absent, how can the officers enthusiastically urge good attendance; thirdly, a teacher should know her subject; fourthly, a class teacher should have a sympathetic understanding of the people with whom she is working, and adapt the lesson to the class, by modifying or simplifying the lesson where necessary. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES — 285 I think the class leader can lead her group very much as the captain in the army leads the men. They must be close enough to him to hear what he says, and to know his motives and desires. If the leader should be so far in advance of the men that they could not hear his commands, they would become confused, and I think that is the case in many of our groups. If some one were to talk to me on some scientific subject of which I know nothing, I should probably be thinking of how I could make over one of the children's dresses, or paper a room, because I would not know what he was talking about. I remember at a ward conference one day, a sister past middle age, evidently not a college woman, gave me help and inspiration because she made the Scriptures a part of me, and made me want to respond to the lesson that she gave on the Scriptures. Her sympathetic appreciation of her audience was her strong point. So that a class leader must have a knowledge of the gospel, and she must have dependability; but these are not enough. She must have the facts of the lesson, but that is not sufficient. She must have enough tact to convert the lesson into a personal message to each woman. On the other hand, class teachers, after they have prepared their lessons, which often takes hours of research and study, are entitled to some consideration from the officers and from the class. If the president allows any kind of program or announcements or plans for bazaars, etc., to encroach on the allotted time of the teacher, who has made such extensive preparation, the teacher will become discouraged. I recently attended a meeting where they were planning for a ward bazaar. The class ledder had come fully prepared with the lesson, and when the committee work was finished, which should have been done in separate committee meetings, this class leader had ten minutes to present the lesson. Also the class leaders would be greatly encouraged if all officers and members would always come prepared. The annual report shows that many of the officers are not subscribers to the Magazine. This probably accounts for the condition in some of the wards where the officers apparently know nothing of the lesson, and contribute nothing to the recitation. When one has work to do, tools are necessary. Certainly the Magazine, with its lessons, is the important tool for the officers and members of the Relief Society.. OBJECT AND PREVIEW OF LESSONS