Literature Lessons
For a rather lengthy period the Relief Society has been studying poetry, so that class leaders are familiar with the way to present a lesson in poetry. Now that we have turned to another form of literature, certain questions asking how we intend that the lessons shall be presented have come into the office. We are sure that many of our class leaders have had experience in schools where dramas are presented; in such instances they will be more or less familiar with the method. For those who have never belonged to groups of any sort where dramas were reviewed, we make a few suggestions, which we trust will prove helpful.
In the first place there is no thought of having these plays dramatized. To attempt it would, in most instances, mean failure. In the next place we wish to make clear that it is not necessary to have a dramatic reader. Anybody who can read intelligently can do the work. Drama is very much easier for many people to read than poetry, consequently it ought not to be difficult.
We have told you what we do not wish you to do; we shall now try to tell you what we should like you to strive to do. Our idea is to have someone tell the story of the drama in an interesting way. Then, after the story is told, we wish to have the problem discussed. We should like our readers to recognize that our modern playwrights, even those who are as great as Galsworthy, Shaw, and Barrie, are interested in the same social problems as Relief Society workers and social workers the world over are interested in. Also that when writing plays they make use of the same material as social workers constantly come in contact with while at work, in every day life. In other words, we would like our Relief Society members to recognize that there is a correlation between literature and life; that the person who writes is attempting to present the grave social problems of our civilization in the hope that social workers in the field may be able to do something towards solving them.