Responsibility of the State in Caring for Its Children (Address given at Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1928) By Judge Hugo B. Anderson
I am very happy to respond to the invitation to talk to this group on the subject which has been announced, for in my judgment the Relief Society organization of this Church is the strongest force for progress in matters of child welfare in the State of Utah today; and if there is anything I can say or do to encourage you in the work which you are doing, I should consider it a breach of my plain duty as a member of the Church, as well as a citizen, if I failed to respond to that call.
THE RIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD
Every state inherently has the power technically called the police power, to make and enforce regulations for the health, morals, safety, and general welfare of its subjects. If the state has that power, obviously it has a corresponding duty to make and enforce regulations for health, safety, morals, and welfare.
There are, it seems to me, certain inalienable rights of childhood. If I were asked off-hand to name them, I might mention five: the right to be well-born, the right to a normal home life, the right to health, the right to an opportunity for education (including moral, intellectual, and spiritual education), and an opportunity for recreation. If these are the rights of childhood, then it is the power and also the responsibility of the state to guarantee as far as possible these rights, also to protect them and preserve them for childhood.
The responsibility of our state in this direction is discharged through three general channels. Through our department of education, through health measures under the control of a State Board of Health, and through a great variety of other activities commonly called welfare measures, for which we have no state board of administration. There is no sharp line of demarcation between educational, health and welfare work. Educational work today is comprehending health work in the schools, also social service work outside of school hours, vocational guidance, and other things closely related to welfare work. Health work itself is largely an educational problem, and welfare work in turn depends largely on the educational and health forces of the community.
THE FIELD OF WELFARE WORK
The three, then, are inter-related, but for convenience, may be taken as rough classifications for the administration of the state's responsibility to its childhood. There is another reason for the classification which places welfare work in a group by itself. The administration of the state's education and health work is fundamentally for all its children, whereas the work which is commonly termed welfare work, is concerned primarily with the special classes?the classes which need special care, and these are roughly classified as dependents, defectives, and delinquents.
In its educational and health programs, our state is well in advance among the states of the Union. We are spending proportionately, out of state revenues for educational purposes, twice the average of other states in the Union; whereas, in the field of welfare, in proportion to other states, we are spending one-third of the average that the other states are giving to that department.
THE FIELD OF EDUCATION
Utah has, as you know, compulsory school attendance for all children from six to eighteen years of age. It must be obvious that the higher the age limit is placed in compelling children to go to school, the broader must be the school program; for if the state, in the exercise of its power, undertakes to compel children to go to school, then it should be responsible for seeing that the children are afforded the kind of training that suits their needs. It is inevitable, therefore, with the advance of the school age to eighteen years, that it would take some time for our educational system to catch up with itself and supply children of the higher ages the kind of training they need.
In our state, if it is to carry out this duty, there must inevitably be a service in vocational guidance and in conduct clinics, for you can just as quickly make a child delinquent by trying to fit him into a school which does not fit his needs as you can by leaving him out of the school system altogether. As a rule, delinquency first makes itself manifest in the school. It is a responsibility of the school system, when that delinquency is first manifest, to take whatever steps the state can take to prevent the child from becoming a delinquent as he goes on to other agencies in our social system.
There will also be a development in the field of visiting teachers?in the social work which attempts to be a go-between from the home to the school. If the state, through its educational system, is to fulfil this responsibility to childhood, it must enlarge its facilities so that it gives these opportunities not only to the average child but also to the child below normal and the child above the normal.
THE FIELD OF HEALTH
We have, in the field of health, a splendid department in our state. We have a system of vital statistics, which I believe stands to the forefront among those of the states of the Union. There is one field of health to which I wish to direct your attention because you are more concerned with it than with any other. That is the work which has been going on under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. Under its provisions there have been established, I am told, in the State of Utah, 175 clinics where instruction has been given in prenatal care and where nurses have been provided for maternity cases. I am told by the State Board of Health that this work would have been impossible without the cooperation of the Relief Society organization through the state, and that in the short period of five years the death rate in maternity cases in the state of Utah has been reduced 35%?a showing of which we may well be proud.
The provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act will cease to function after June, 1929, unless something is done to continue that work throughout the country. We hear the argument that it is an unwarranted extension of federal authority to engage in this work, and that it is a violation of states rights. Personally, that argument has no weight with me when it is weighed with the lives of the mothers which have been saved in five years in the state of Utah under the provisions of that Act. There is being proposed at the present time in Congress a bill, introduced I believe, by the representative from Minnesota, which aims to provide a substitute for this work?to continue it under another arrangement. The Relief Society should make its influence felt with our representatives in Congress if it desires that this great work in the interest of maternity and infancy shall continue.
CARE OF THE DEPENDENT
In the field which we classify as the welfare field, I want to say, first of all, that the picture is not so bright in our state. I desire to show the great opportunity there is still before us in bringing that work up to the standard of the other branches of state care of childhood.
First, I suppose the Relief Society is more concerned with dependents than with any other class. I sometimes think that the Relief Society, as well as all other welfare agencies engaged in relief work, fails to comprehend the relation of the state and its subdivisions to private agencies in this field. The state carries on this work for dependents through the county subdivisions. Under our law, the care of dependents is first of all a charge on the family of the dependent?the father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, child, grandchild, brother, or sister. Each is chargeable with the care of a dependent in that group, and the county may compel, by suit or otherwise, any one of that group to care for a dependent in the group. The family is the unit of responsibility for the care of the dependent under the law.
If the family cannot care for the dependent, then the care, under the law, is a charge upon the county; and that obligation is so strong that if the county does not carry it out and another agency does, the other agency has the right to bring action against the county for money which it has been compelled to expend for the indigent or dependent poor within the county limits. As far as the legal situation is concerned, the private relief agency is outside of that work.
Now it is manifest that when the Relief Society or any other agency takes care of the indigent sick or the dependent poor in the county, the county is relieved of a legal responsibility and the burden of taking care of the poor is shifted from the taxpayer who supports the county fund to the contributor to the private organization. Thus the private organization is using its funds to carry out a county function, which funds it might be using in constructive and preventive work in the community. Constructive or preventive work is not a charge upon the county; under the law, the county is not required to do such work. If a county ever does preventive work, it is only because it thinks that by so doing it can save dollars and cents.
Under the poor laws of Queen Elizabeth, when the people of England were charged with support of all orphans and taxed to take care of them, there were epidemics throughout England, making great numbers of orphans. The people soon decided that if they had to take care of the orphans, they should do something to prevent the increase of orphans. It was from this circumstance that the health work of England began and has since gone on. But that was only for the purpose of saving dollars and cents, and you cannot expect the state or any of its subdivisions to do preventive and constructive work unless you can demonstrate that this work will save dollars and cents. It is the function of the private agency to devise ways and means, to experiment in the field, to perfect methods, and to demonstrate to the state that by doing preventive and constructive work money can be saved to the community.
WHO CARES FOR THE INDIGENT?
If the L. D. S. Church should say to any county, "Despite the fact that it is your legal responsibility to take care of the poor, we want to take care of our own," there could be no objection by the county and no objection by the taxpayer, because the burden is taken from the taxpayer and placed on those who are contributing to Relief Society and Church work. The only objection that could be made would be by members of the Church who were paying taxes and were also contributing to the care of their dependents. That is the situation which arose in our school system when we were duplicating Church high schools with the high schools of the community. Now we have seen fit to stop that duplication, to allow the civil unit to carry on its legal function, and merely to supplement with our Church seminaries. The same argument would induce us to place the care of dependents on the county, where it legally belongs, and supplement the county work with trained service and with constructive and preventive work in our Church.
We have been taught from childhood on, and I recall hearing it time and time again, that we have no poor and that we take care of our own. Neither one of these statements is true. I believe that we are allowing ourselves to be lulled to sleep on this matter. Utterances which have become almost a part of us and which were true when they were first made, have long since ceased to be true because of a change in our conditions.
In Salt Lake County some time ago, an investigation was made by private relief agencies to determine whether or not the county was carrying out its functions in the matter of poor relief and whether something could be done to aid it in that effort. The investigation showed that in Salt Lake County, $105,000 was being expended yearly for outdoor relief in addition to $50,000 under the so-called widow's pension fund, and that the number of families assisted in 1927, exclusive of widows, was 1,176. In Salt Lake City the preventive, constructive and investigation work in these cases was made for the L. D. S. Cases by the Relief Society, and for the non-L. D. S. Cases by the Family Service Society. The records showed that 330 cases in Salt Lake City, out of 1,176 were being taken care of by the L. D. S. Relief Society, 203 by the Family Service Society, leaving 643 cases to be taken care of by the Salt Lake County staff. The county staff was wholly inadequate to do any constructive or preventive work on such a number of cases.
But the most alarming thing shown by that investigation?a thing which I promised myself I would communicate to the people of my own Church at the first opportunity?was the fact that outside of Salt Lake City in Salt Lake County, at least 90% of the county cases claimed membership in the L. D. S. Church. Of approximately 1,500 cases in Salt Lake County, including widow's pension cases, 1,200 claimed membership in the L. D. S. Church?a number out of all proportion to the number of L. D. S. and non-L. D. S. People. That was not because our people are less frugal; it is not because our people are less intelligent or industrious; it is because outside of the work which is being done by our L. D. S. Relief Society, our system of poor relief has become antiquated. We are giving, giving, without combining with it any effort, through trained social workers, to prevent the necessity of giving. We are pauperizing and injuring the recipients, acting unjustly to our own people and to the taxpayers who are not members of our faith.
Four months ago a trained investigator was put on eighty cases in Salt Lake County. In these four months she was able, out of those eighty cases, to place twenty cases well on the way to self-respect and self-support, and to make them happy about it. That result shows what can be done by a little trained service in connection with giving. I believe that our private relief organization should turn its attention to this constructive and preventive work. It should aim to secure trained service, and to place back on the county the obligation which, under the law, is the obligation of the county?to care for the permanently dependent and indigent sick.
THE WIDOW'S PENSION
I want to say a word about the so-called widow's pension. Under our law, each county is required to set up a fund for the public support of widows who are dependent on their own efforts for the support of their children. In counties of less than one hundred thousand population, that fund is $10,000; in counties of more than one hundred thousand population, the fund is $50,000 annually. In Salt Lake County there are 310 widows on that list, and the widows receive approximately $5 per month for each child that they have, and no one, including the state, has ever been able to figure out how a widow can be expected to stay at home and take care of her children on $5 per month per child. It simply can't be done. If the purpose of the law is to preserve the home and keep the child in its own home (and the law has that purpose) then the law must utterly fail of its purpose.
At the same time I might say that in the great majority of counties in the state there is not a widow's pension fund, although the law requires that the county commissioners set it up. If we require a widow with a family to try to get along on $5 a month for each child, the family finally breaks under the strain. The children go into the Juvenile Court as a dependent and neglected family: they are taken from the mother and placed in institutions; and immediately the county, under law, is required to pay $15 a month for the support of each child in the institution. Is that the premium that we are going to place on home life? Is that the way we are to guarantee each child a normal home life. Time and time again it has been demonstrated that a home can care for a child better and at less expense than it can be cared for in an institution; and yet we grant the institution $15 for the support of the child and expect the mother to get along with $5. If the state is to discharge its responsibility for the care of the dependent child and give to every child its inalienable right to a normal home life, then I say that we must revise our conception of a, mother's RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE 69 allowance. The first point of attack, however, is to see that the widows' allowance laws are properly administered; for it was found in this survey that practically half of the people who are getting the allowance are not entitled to it. We cannot expect the state to make larger appropriations to be distributed in this way. We should see to it that our counties are given the trained service they need in administering the law, and that we have a board of welfare in the state to see that the law is uniformly applied. TRAFFIC IN CHILDREN In the state of Utah there are probably born each year, about 150 illegitimate children. That is away below the average for the United States. It is about 1% of the births; whereas, in the United States as a whole, the illegitimate births are about 4% In these illegitimate cases, the death rate is about three times as high as in the case of legitimate birth. The larger proportion of these illegitimate children are born in what are known as maternity homes. The girl naturally tries to cover her shame, goes to a maternity home, usually away from her place of residence, and gives birth to her child. The maternity home has the problem, under our present system, of getting rid of the child; and a large part of the child-placing is done by unscrupulous persons who are running maternity homes, and who have but one desire?to get paid for the service they have given to the mother and to dispose of the child. A few weeks ago a maternity hospital in Salt Lake sold a child, which was taken into a home without any investigation by anyone who knew anything about child-placing, and without any regard to what kind of treatment that child would receive; the person taking it paid merely the expenses of the mother. After the child was placed, the case came to the attention of a welfare agency. The adoption proceedings were stopped and a criminal complaint has been charged against the person who disposed of the child. I mention this merely to show you the traffic in children that is going on in our communities. Under this maternity house system we place these illegitimate children with less regard to where they are going than we would use in placing a pet animal. We have on our statute book laws for the registration and licensing of maternity houses and of child-placing agencies. They have never been enforced because they are placed at the present time under the Board of Health, there being no board of welfare; and the Board of Health has never had an appropriation from the legislature for carrying out the provisions of these laws. Until we get a board of welfare, charged with the administration of these laws, we cannot expect that they will be properly administered. The Relief Society, through its Salt Lake office, is a licensed child-placing agency and I will say that if you are placing children  you should find out what the requirements of the child-placing law are and you should not do the job unless you have someone who can do it properly and according to law. NEEDS OF THE MENTAL HOSPITAL A word regarding defectives and their care. In the State Hospital at Provo, which is our only institution fur defectives, we have approximately 800 insane cases. We have in that institution two doctors; one of them gives his entire time to the administration of the institution and the other has some outside practice, I believe, and gives the rest of his time to the care of the inmates. The standard for hospital work for the insane in the United States is one hundred fifty patients to the doctor. You cannot expect to have proper care given to the insane unless the staff of medical men at the Provo institution is greatly increased. The doctors there realize that, but they say our first need is for more room, for there are not, even at the present time, beds for the people who are forced upon the institution. The patients are packed in like sardines in a can. They need more room and the state cannot discharge its responsibility to this class until they have more room. They also need at that institution a staff of nurses; then they need some social workers who can help take care of the cases that are sent out, and can keep them from going back into unfavorable environments and getting into the same conditions as they were in before, necessitating a re-commitment. The board of the state mental hospital should be increased by the appointment of certain civilian members. At the present time, it consists of the governor, the state treasurer, and the state auditor ?all officials of the state. Every time a change is inade in state administration, a change is made in the board at the mental hospital; and as soon as one board becomes acquainted with the needs of the institution and commences to make a plan for it. The board is changed and new members come on, who have to start all over again. A SCHOOL FOR THE FEEBLE-MINDED There is urgent need for the segregation of the feeble-minded from the insane. There are now at the institution 150 feebleminded, mostly of the lower class of feeble-minded?idiots and imbeciles. Feeble-minded people are not hospital patients; they are people needing education and custodial care. It is an injustice to the insane to place them with the feeble-minded, and an injustice to the feeble-minded to place them with the insane. After viewing the field of social work in the state, the State Conference of Social Workers, which has just completed a two-day session, has come to the conclusion that the greatest present need is a school for the training of the feeble-minded. As much as we RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE 71 need other things, that group came to the conclusion that the most crying need is an institution for the feeble-minded. I am inclined to believe the conference was right in its decision. We have in this state at least 500 people who are in need of special training in an institution for the feeble-minded. Where are they? One hundred and fifty of them are at Provo. Groups of them, because they are not properly cared for, find their way into the Industrial School and then into the State Prison. A few are cared for at the Atkinson Home, and a few in the Twelfth School. We have no place to take care of them and we are doing an injustice to these people and an injustice to the taxpayers of our state by not seeing that they are taken care of and given the training which will help them to become self-sustaining and keep them out of trouble. PROBLEMS OF DELINQUENCY Perhaps I can say just a word about the field of delinquency. Delinquency represents the failure of all the other work in the community to make the child a social being; it represents failure of the home, the school, and the church. If all these agencies fail with him, he comes into the juvenile court. Obviously, if the school teacher, if the parents, if the church, if the community have failed to find out what is wrong with the boy, and have failed to give him the thing he needs to make him a social being, we cannot expect to get that job done and have the boy reformed and turned back into the channels of citizenship unless someone is handling him who is more expert than the people who have failed with him. That is sensible isn't it? And you cannot expect to get someone of that type to handle the child in our juvenile courts with the appropriation of $40,000 which the legislature makes biennially for handling the Juvenile court system of our state. Asa consequence, our juvenile court system is breaking down for lack of trained personnel and for lack of things which we all know are necessary to a juvenile court system. The courts have taken cognizance of the breaking down of our system and so have other people. A few years ago we had a law passed that in case a child committed a felony he should be handled, not as a person who needed guidance and help but as a criminal, and that lie could be bound over from the juvenile to the criminal court. The courts have said if that is so the jurisdiction of other courts is concurrent with that of the juvenile court, and therefore the child does not need to be taken into the juvenile court. So today it is possible for a fourteen-year-old child to be sentenced to the state prison in accordance with our law. We are to have an expert from the East soon to investigate our juvenile court system. We all know what is wrong but we will not listen unless somebody from outside comes and tells us what to do.