GuidejiLessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in August. Work and Business. Second Week in August. SUMMER HEALTH LESSONS. Third Week in August. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. Note. We especially commend this splendid and succient lesson by Dr. Charles F. Wilcox to our students everywhere. It is the multnm in parvo concerning the subject treated. LESSON I. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. The wonderful disclosures of the microscope have revealed a new world and humanity has reaped a very great and important benefit from it. By magnifying many hundred diameters it was found that countless germs existed in the air and on everything around us. A further study of these germs showed them to be mostly of vegetable origin; also that the great majority of them were not only not harmful, but that they were actually useful in promoting — fermentation notably the yeast germ, and the germs that produce the fermentation in milk, wines, beers, etc. It was also found that these germs were living entities and that they reproduced themselves that they could be destroyed by; heat, dry or moist, by certain chemicals, such as chlorid of lime, iodine, etc., also that sunlight was a great destroyer of germs. It was also found that certain colonies of germs or bacteria were the direct cause of nearly all the diseases that afflict the human body. Louis Pasteur, a noted French chemist, was one of the first men to experiment along these lines and he developed the germ theory of fermentation and proved beyond qnestion of doubt that there was no such thing as "spontaneous generation of life." but that all life was due to cellular activity and must be produced bv a pre-existing, living cell. His researches along these lines were of immense benefit to the wine and beer industries of France and Germany. It was this discovery that has made possible the canned fruit and vege- table industry that furnishes so much of our winter supply of food. When the silk industry of France was in danger of being entirely destroyed by the worms dying prematurely, he found their death was caused by a germ. He immediately applied himself to find a remedy and was so successful that he not only saved the silk industry to the nation, but gained honor and undying fame. At this early stage of his researches, he expressed himself to the eflfect that what he had been able to do with the silk worms, he hoped would be possible to do with higher animals, and perhaps even human beings might be benefitted by his great discovery. He certainly pointed the way that has led up to the present advancecd position of medical science and while there are hun- ; dreds of names of eminent men who have done much to bring medicine out of the realm of uncertainty and empyricism to the pinnacle of true science where it sits today, a shining monument should be erected to the names of Harvey, Jenner, Lister, and among the long list of illustrious men that have followed down to the present, none shines brighter than that of Louis Pasteur. The discovery of Edward Jenner that vaccination will cer- tainly prevent that dreadful scourge, small-pox which, up to his day. was the most dreadful disease known to the human race, has made it so mild and so infrequent that it is no longer feared. It is not too much to say that he has been instrumental in saving mil- lions of lives. In the Spanish-American war one-fifth of the soldiers in the national encampment had typhoid fever. During the last four years our soldiers numbering, over twen- ty thousand, have been patroling the border in Mexico, and not one case of typhoid fever has been reported in the army. This immunity has been secured by proper and timely vaccination. The mortality of diphtheria has been reduced from 40% to less than 107c since the introduction of antitoxine and thou- sands of children who have been exposed to diphtheria have been saved from the disease by a timely dose of antitoxine. The economic loss in the LTnited States from tuberculosis alone has been estimated at two hundred million dollars annually. During the last forty years the death rate of tuberculosis has been reduced fifty percent. This great reduction has been brought 
 about by better sanitary measures and an earlier recognition of the disease which makes it much more favorable for treatment. What is true of the foregoing is equally true of nearly every contagious disease known. In summer, germs develop more rapidly than in cold weather. This accounts for the increased death rate in children during the summer months. Germs develop rapidly in milk when it is not free from dirt and extraneous material, or when it is not placed in sterile containers and then kept cool. Flies not only carry the typhoid germs, but many other harmful ones, notably the colon bacillus. This germ, when taken into the system, is very injurious and is responsible for many deaths. The water supply, in country districts, should be carefully guarded against contamination. It is said that cleanliness is next to Godliness, but it is quite proper to say that cleanliness is Godliness itself. The Great Creator has placed in the human body elements that tend to pro- tect him against the death-dealing germs, and when the body is clean within and without, and proper regard is had for the gen- eral rules of hygiene, and all manner of excesses in diet, ex- ercise and everything that tends to overstrain the body or reduce its vitality is avoided, it is rendered almost immune against disease of every kind, whether contagious, infectious or toxic. QUESTIONS. How were germs discovered? What are germs? Of what use are they? What harm can they do? How do they get into the system? Where are they found? How are they destroyed? What did Louis Pasteur do? What did Edward Jenner do? What would happen if everybody in the world were vac- cinated against small-pox and typhoid fever? When two children are exposed to a contagious disease why does one take it and the other not? Why are babies made sick in summer more than in winter? How can you prevent nearly all diseases? Fourth Week in August. THE TEETH AND THEIR CARE. LESSON n. The human countenance is much beautified by a set of teeth which are healthy, white, and symmetrical. Good teeth are greatly to be desired. Not only are they an aid to fine looks, but they are of the utmost importance in helping to maintain the general health. Good health depends largely on good digestion. Mastica- tion or grinding of the food is the first process of digestion, and perfect mastication can only be accomplished with the best of teeth. Time was when people actually expected to lose their teeth as the years went by and some aged people became entirely tooth- less. That condition gave rise to the expression "nut cracker face" when, on account of shrunken gums and sunken lips, the prominent nose and chin would almost meet. The invention of artificial teeth changed that condition entirely. Now, the science of dentistry has advanced so near to perfec- tion that the ordinary mortal may have his natural teeth until he dies of old age. Much of the misery and distress of the teething period are averted by the proper care of the infant, and with the teeth a good beginning is most important. The properly trained child is taught to give careful attention to his teeth at a very early age. Wise parents give their children food containing the elements needed for the building up or the growing a good set of teeth. For the first three years the milk diet should be mostly depended upon, the diet being varied during the third and following years in accordance with knowledge and wisdom. The outer covering of the teeth is called enamel and it is the hardest tissue found in the body. If the enamel could be kept always in perfect condition the teeth would not suffer from dis- ease or decay. It appears that Nature has designed the teeth to last as long as life, because after the teeth are once completely grown, she makes no provision for repairing or restoring the enamel. All the other tissues of the body have formative cells which continually repair waste or promote growth. It is only the teeth, after they are full grown, that are left without these repro- ductive cells. As soon as the teeth are completely growii these formative cells disappear. Many causes contribute to the cracking or other injury of the enamel, and it is after the enamel is injured that decay sets in, and the services of the dentist are required. Cracking nuts or other hard substances is a frequent and common source of 
 clanger. The people who sew should cut their threads with scis- sors or thread-cutters and not use the teeth for that purpose. Drink or food taken into the mouth too hot or too cold works injury to the enamel. Sudden changes of temperature such as following hot food with cold or the reverse is very hard on the teeth. Too much sweets and candy are injurious to the stomach and cause decay of the teeth. Also the teeth should be kept clean and free from any remain- ing particles of food that might ferment and cause disease or de- cay germs. Sucking of the thumbs or fingers is a habit that is quite fre- quent among infants and young children. It is a habit which should be corrected without delay, because if continued it is very apt to cause the mouth to be malformed or the shape and expres- sion spoiled, -by uncomely, projecting teeth in adult life. Another dreadful result of this pernicious habit may be adenoids. The services of a good dentist should be regularly employed — and he should investigate the teeth about twice a year every six months. This attention should begin even with the temporary set or "baby set," at the very first sign of decay. A very great mistake is frequently made by neglecting the "six year molars." They are the first permanent teeth to appear and never should be extraced if they can possibly be preserved to the individual by filling or other detal work. Frequently brushing of the teeth with a soft brush, preferably after each meal, up and down, across, inside and outside, and the use of an anti-septic tooth wash are necessary to their proper care and preservation. The Chinese rub the cleansing material over the teeth with the finger. The tooth brush is unsanitary unless frequently ster- ilized. QUESTIONS. Name two special reasons for giving the best care to the teeth. What was the condition of many of the aged people in days gone by? With personal care and the aid of the dentist what may be the condition now? Is there any way of aiding the growth of good teeth? Tell anything you know on that subject. Tell some facts about the outer covering or enamel of the teeth. Name some of the causes that contribute to the injury of the teeth. Tell what you think about the services of the dentist. What is the personal care that should be given the teeth?