EDITORIAL . Motto?Charity Never Faileth.  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. JUNE, 1916, No. 6.
CLIMBING. Climbing is a health-giving exercise. The Going very act of setting the muscles, lifting the Upward. body, and raising the eyes, gives instant challenge to all our life forces. The blood is forced quickly through clogged arteries, the heart pumps more vigorously, the lungs expand, and every atom in the body feels soon or late the healthful reaction of this strenuous exercise. The eyes clear, the nostrils quiver, the knees are a-strain, and the feet spurn the earth with upspringing elasticity. So also does this spiritual body of ours react The Spirit to an upward striving after physical balance Climbs. and health. The spirit eyes glow; the spirit muscles contract; the delicate spiritual machinery springs to action vividly, when we set our spiritual feet on the hill of health, leaving behind the gloomy canyons and ravines of physical suffering and pain. So many of us must climb the hill of hope and faith, each morning, stimulated by necessity, and with only our will-power and our faith as a staff or a rod by which to lift us, step by step, along the difficult, upward way. We arise from beds of weary sleeplessness, we bring our jaded appetites to unwanted breakfasts, and our listless hands EDITORIAL. 355 to the daily grinding tasks. How shall we climb past the minutes and the hours until we reach the evening summit, when one more day will have passed over the mountain tops? We see some vigorous friend, vitally alive, How did She electrically competent, and we say she is Get There? blessed and favoured, while we are impotent and stricken down by blind providence. Are you sure she has climbed without effort and pain? Did you ever climb a slippery, uncharted path up a steep hillside, blinded by storm-mists and beaten back by fierce winds? It cost you effort, did it not? Few mature women of this generation but are climbing the hills of life with spent breath and broken nerves. Some few alas, that there are so few are so much in physical tune with life that they are unconscious of all bodily processes and nature functions for them without a jar of the velvet wheels or a click of the delicate machinery. Most women and of these are the spiritually The Way acute live hourly on the promissory notes of Of It. will-power and blind hope. Some there be O follow these who cast away relentlessly all possible handicaps, and with determined eyes, fixed on the star of faith, they go resolutely upward, keeping in harmony with divine laws while denying themselves both self-pity and self-indulgence. So many of us want to travel our own way and the Lord's way at one and the same time. The two ways too often go in opposite directions. If we would climb well and quickly, this hill of desire, of daily toil and struggle, we must cast away all unnecessary burdens sin and envy are such heavy loads and seek each day to live most truly the laws of heaven-climbing. Why shall we droop wearily on the lower, Up, Come Up! sickly levels, when the pure, spiritual air is to be breathed only on the hill-tops? Why shall we hunt for medical staves and sticks, or lie in the mud of discouragement, when we can climb if we will climb slowly, surely, safely upward? Climbing is such hard work, but there is the pure hill-top air above. Come on Try a step or two.! Now! altogether! Up Up Up! ! ! CHANCE AND CHANGE. How shall I dare to mark thy innocent look, And write as in a book, Thy infinite possibilities of life; What fate awaits thee in the coming strife, What joys, what triumphs in the coming years, What depths of woe and tears? Lewis Morris.
Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week. TESTIMONY. Work and Business. Second Week. Summer Health Lessons. Third Week. SANITATION. It is the duty of every citizen to be an interested guardian of health conditions. Moreover, every individual should take a personal pride in safeguarding his community, his friends, his family and himself. It is imperative that we aim to have sanitary surroundings and hygienic living. We have learned what wonders can be accomplished in eliminating the fly by the free use of the fly-killer and the fly traps. So much has been said of this subject that it is now a popular thing to make jokes about the last fly that will be seen on earth. But with all that has been done, it is still almost beyond us to keep even our houses free from baneful pests to say nothing of the outbuildings where animals live. In the home, cleanliness, screened doors and windows and determined use of fly killers or cages are all necessary. Clean basements, closets, and attics, clean yards and alleyways all contribute to the sanitary conditions of the home. Frequent talks on this subject are very necessary as we may easily see by the homes still uncared for, but also we must realise what great improvements have been accomplished by repetitions of lessons on sanitary measures and their enforcement. Every community, even the smallest, should have its committee on sanitation and public health, and that committee should be composed of men and women devoted to the public welfare. All water used for culinary purposes should be pure at its