[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: THE YOUNG WONAN’S JOURNAL. | Author: Unknown]

THE YOUNG WONAN’S JOURNAL.
	We have received the initial number of this new
magazine, published in the interests of the young
people’s Associations, and also for the benefit of
all the young women of Zion. The work is very
neat in appearance and printed on good paper in
clear type, and contains 32 pages of reading mat-
ter.  It is divided into departments, first Literary,
second, Our Girls, third, House and Home, fourth
Dress, fifth Health and Hygiene, this last depart-
ment is edited by Romania B. Pratt, M.D., who is
thoroughly capable of undertaking work of this
kind both by education and experience.
	The October number of the journal is full of in-
teresting matter in its several departments; the
literary articles are from the pens of able writers
who are well-known to the reading public in Utah.
The Hymn by Ruby Lamont, that opens this num-
ber is a gem, “Bereavement,” a poem by Josephine
Spencer is touchingly beautiful in sentiment,
“Longing” by Lu Dalton is a poem of real merit
as all her productions are, and “A Voice From


The Daughters Of Zion,” by Hope is well suited
to the advent of the journal and significant of its
mission. “Baby’s Brass Nickle” by Lula must
not pass unnoticed for Lula is the children’s
writer and special advocate, some of her best
poetical efforts have been put forth to help and to
amuse and teach principle to the little ones in
Zion.  The stories will doubtless please the young
people, we have not read them and therefore can
only judge them from our knowledge of the
writers and the themes. “Aunt Polly’s Letter,” a
description of the old home is decidedly well-
written, “Our Dumb Animals,” No. 1. by Zina B.
Crocheron is an effort in a somewhat new direc-
tion by our girls, and as it is a prolific subject and
one not much treated upon in our local papers,
it will probably be made amusing and instruc-
tive.  The house and dress department will doubt-
less serve the purpose for which intended, as it is
a clear field in this line.
	The editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, starts out
with everything favorable to a successful enter-
prise, and as she loves the work she has under-
taken, it will be comparatively easy because she
will put her heart in it, and with the cooperation
of the young ladies it ought to succeed finan-
cially.  It is the organ of the Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Associations, and will there-
fore be an avenue whereby many questions may
by asked and answered, this making it specially
helpful to the organized work; the essays and
manuscript papers have a place assigned them in
the journal, and they will no doubt improve this
opportunity to discuss social and religious ques-
tions and subjects.  There is no danger of too
much cultivation mentally, morally and spiritually
and while advocating the development of the
mind and heart we should not forget physical
culture either.  We heartily wish the new journal
success in the field of literature.  It is published
at the Juvenile Instructor Office in this city.
Price of subscription, $2.00 per year.


[Column 1]
