[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE. | Author: Unknown]

﻿WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE.
WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE W. S. A.
		OF JUAB COUNTY.
	Having enrolled my name as a member of the
Suffrage Association, and believeing that when
we become members of any association it is our
duty to respond to every call, and to do our ut-
most to make it a success, I desire not simply to
be a member but a worker in this noble cause we
have espoused. I believe in the physical, moral,
intellectual, spiritual and political education of wo-
man. She should have the privilege of pursuing
the same studies as her brother, that she may be a
companion to him and be able to converse intelli-
gently on any subject that interests him. If wo-
man’s whole time is occupied in domestic duties,
and she takes no time to improve her mind or in-
crease her intelligence, how can she impart to her
children that intelligence which will make them
men and women of renown in their own day and
time?
	Each generation should be brighter and better
in every respect than the one that preceded it, but
how can this  be possible unless women are edu-
cated, and liberated from the bondage they are
under? Woman cannot impart to her children
lofty aspirations, love of freedom and of country,
she can not produce patriots, unless she breathes
the air of freedom and has the love of country
burning in her bosom.
	The Fathers of our country are praised and
honored by posterity for the part they took in
obtaining freedom, and for the hardships they en-
dured in colonizing a new country. But did we
not have mothers of our country who should not
be forgotten. They too, are entitled to our homage,
for did they not endure the sufferings and priva-

[Column 2]
tions as heroically as our Fathers did? Did they
not prove their loyalty and patriotism in laying all
upon the altar and sacrificing husbands, sons and
brothers in defense of their country?
	Strange that when that country for which wo-
man sacrificed and suffered, was secured from
tyranny and bondage, and the Constitution framed
which is the best and most perfect of any on
earth, that her rights should be ignored and she
have no voice in the making of the laws or of
electing the law-makers. Stranger still that while
thousands of precious lives were lost, and millions
of money expended in emancipating the negros,
the mothers, wives and daughters of those patri-
otic soldiers were, now are, in political bondage.
Is not taxation without representation as unjust
and oppressive now as it was in the days of the
Revolution? I think so, yet women are suffering
from this very cause today. Woman is amenable
to the law and if she breaks a law she is punished
the same as man is. If she holds property she is
taxed, yet she has no voice in saying who shall
handle that money or how it shall be expended.
	Who is more interested in the education of
children than their mothers, but mothers can-
not vote for school elections even, except in a few
of the states where women have secured this
privilege by agitation and perseverance, and
therefore they can not say who shall educate their
children.
	If women had the Franchise they could wield a
power for good that would not only affect them-
selves and the present generation but would effect
millions yet unborn. If they were united they
could stop the spread of intemperance, by pro-
hibition the sale of that dreadful curse to man-
kind, Alcohol. Who suffers more than women
from the effects of Alcohol? Men drink it and
women take the consequences. If women voted
they could raise the wages of working women who
now by the thousands are struggling for an ex-
istence on starvation wages, and many go to their
destruction to escape a life of misery and want.
Shall we sit supinely down because our lot has
fallen in better places than those just described,
and say we don’t believe in Woman’s rights, we
have all the rights we want”—when there is so
much suffering, and so much to be done in this
world of ours? If we are true women, if we
have all the rights we want, we will not rest satis-
fied until others who are not so fortunate as we
are, shall have their rights secured to them. We
should be like Mrs. Fry whose Philanthrophy
caused many of her sex to reform and lead better
lives, by her visiting the prisons and establishing
schools for the depraved unruly inmates, who
blessed her name for her goodness. Can not we
follow her noble example, and do something to
benefit our sex? Woman should be the friend of
woman in every condition and position in life.
	I claim that a woman who does the same work
as a man, if she does it as well and works as many
hours, should have the same wages that he has.
But how is it today in our own loved Territory,
and it is much better here than it is in other parts
of our country, a common laboring man receives
$1.50 per day, while his sister who works as long
and just as hard, gets 50cts. a day, just a third of
what her brother gets, and why? Simply because
she is a woman, and has not been educated to
value her time and labor, and to demand for them
a just remuneration as he has. Numerous cases
might be mentioned with which we are all
familiar, where women school teachers and clerks
in stores, who spend as many hours in as faithful
labor, and are as well qualified for the positions
as the men who perform the same kind of labor,
who only receive a third or perhaps in some in-
stances half as much salary as men do. I have a
friend, a woman, who is a good efficient school
teacher, who loves her work and devotes a great
deal of time, besides her school hours, that her
scholars might advance more rapidly, who is as


well qualified, and as capable a teacher as her
husband, who is also a teacher, but the trustees, all
being men, will not pay her half as much as they
do him, while her husband says she works harder
than he does and is just as capable of managing a
school as he is. How unjust! Is it not time that
women awake from the lethargy and indifference
that binds them, and employ every legitimate
means within their power to emancipate their sex.
May our association prove a success in accom-
plishing the ends for which it was organized.
