[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 836 | General Feature | Notes to the Field Attention English Speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions | ]
[Notes to the Field Attention English Speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions]

Ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. "IN WHOLENESS OR IN PART" "According to your faith,'' he said; his word Of healing was as gentle as his touch, And two who once were blind, having much Of faith, could see again. The day I heard The story I was low on faith... Suppose I thought, the one but half-believed, and when Through clouded eyes he saw the Lord—then Was full faith his? It must be that those With scanty measure of belief inherit Scanty blessings. One needs a deeper trust, A greater love, a more committed heart, Unwavering in the sudden storm, to merit Jesus' touch. For as your faith, so must Your blessing be... In wholeness or in part. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 836 / 3 A True Story As Told to Helen Romrell s Ann sat at her desk—usually letters were so easy to write, but today was different. Christmas was almost here, but with all the excitement and _ preparations, Ann still felt a little apprehensive—how would Steve, her firstborn, spend Christmas this year? Germany was such a long way from Idaho, and even though he was completely absorbed in his missionary work, she still worried about him. This would be his first Christmas away from home. She knew he would miss _ his brothers and sister and the happiness they all shared at this special time of year. Well, she must hurry if she was to catch the postman and still make it to Relief Society on time.: Smiling now, she quickly added messages from the younger children and encouragement and love from all. She reread the letter, and was sure that it did not betray her feelings. As she stepped out the door to put her letter in the box, she met the postman coming up the walk. He smiled as he saw her scanning the letters in his hand, looking for the familiar blue aerogramme. Cheerfully they exchanged greetings and Ann hurried inside. She sat down in the easy chair and slowly opened the precious letter, for she savored this moment. It was almost like hearing Steve's voice as she read _ his words, and a smile filled her face. The spell was soon broken as she looked at the clock. She had better hurry or Sister Adams would think she wasn't coming to pick her up. Later, seated in the cozy Relief Society room, decked out in Christmas finery today, her mind went back to the letter, as she listened to the music and waited for the meeting to begin. Wasn't it just too wonderful! Steve wouldn't be spending Christmas alone after all.