[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT]

HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 269 regard to those conditions. The location, the slope or exposure, the amount of shade are all important. If the location is on sloping ground it will be found that a southerly exposure is much earlier than a northerly one. though it requires more water. The amount of the ground shaded by neighboring trees have is an important matter, especially on the smaller lots, and will much to do with the quantities grown on a given space. To produce crops, sunshine is just as important as water, for without sunlight the materials making up the vegtable food that man eats can not be manufactured by the plant. All too little thought is given to the size of the area on which the o-arden crops are to be grown. Under normal conditions there is a'Very definite relation between the size of the garden and the number of people it will feed. As a general thing our gardens are larger than need be and hence either garden produce or the ground goes to waste. This year we must Hooverize our gardens of in every possible way. That means that every cultivated foot ground must do its biggest bit. While even the farm garden should be cultivated intensively, that applies with double force to the small city or suburban garden. In the city the value of a unit area of land is very much greater than in the country and hence it must be utilized to the utmo,st. Where that is done it is simply astonishing what quantities can be produced from small areas. Valuable aids to intensive prodution are systems of companion cropping and succession cropping. By companion cropping is meant that two or more crops occupy the land at the same time m alternate hills or in close proximity to each other. By succession cropping is meant planting the later crops on ground that has already produced an early crop. Our gardens bear evidence of wasteful extravagance every year in that we allowdesirable weeds to become the late crop rather than plant useful and crops on the ground as.soon as the early crop is harvested. Now we come to the soil. Of all areas, garden soils should probably, be made the most fertile, since they are called upon for the most intensive production. Yet how often do we find them unfertilized! Many people, especially in the larger cities where manure is somewhat scarce and hard to obtain, last year planted gardens on unmanured ground and then wondered why they did not have good crops. Let me urge that every garden be heavily manured and then have the manure incorporated in the. soil by plowing or spading before the seeds are planted. It would have been better to have manured and then plowed the soil in the fall, but far better do it this spring than not at all. Many soils contain so much clay that they are easily packed and baked and cannot therefore give the best i esults. The best thing in the world 
 for such soils, to loosen them up, make them more workable and more productive, is a heavy application of barnyard manure incorporated into the soil. Commercial fertilizers, although they contain the plant food so necessary for plants, can not satisfactorily take the place of manure, and especially on heavy clay soil. The second phase of our problem now demands consideration — the crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant. Let this point be emphasized: vegetable crops vary greatly in their requirements and hence if the best results are to be obtained they nmst be treated differently. One of the frequent causes of disappointment with the garden is failure to recognize this fact. The garden crops are divided into two general groups, those requiring a cool season and those requiring a warm season for their major growth. The following list gives the subdivisions under each of these heads and suggests the season for each: VEGETABLE CROPS. A. Rcqitiriiii:; Cool Season. 1. Cannot endure heat: Garden cress, kohlrabi, lettuce, mustard, peas, radishes, turnips, spinach, rutabagas. 2. Cannot endure excessive heat, yet have long season of growth (usually started in hot beds) : Early cabbage, early cauliflower, early celery, head and Cos lettuce. 3. Can endure heat and have long season: Beets, carrots, chard, kale, collards. New Zealand.spinach, parsley, endive, upland cress, leeks, onions, parsnips, early potatoes, salsify. 4. Escape the heat by making most of their growth in autumn:Late cabbage, late cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, celeriac, late celery. B. Requiring Warm Season. 1. Short season crops: String an.d Lima beans, sweet and pop corn, muskand water-melons, cucumbers, okra, squash, pumpkins. 2. Long season crops (usually started in hot beds) : Tomatoes, peppers, eggplants, sweet potatoes. It will be noticed that the above list includes many crops not commonly grown in Utah and surrounding states. By neglecting to grow some of these, which are also easily grown, we are missing a golden opportunity for enriching our tables with,some of the most delicious bounties of nature. Let me mention a few of these and urge that you give them a trial this summer. Then HOME SCIEXCE DEPARTMENT. 271 next year add some more to your list. After that you will never be without them. Kohlrabi, head lettuce, Swiss chard, kale. New Zealand spinach, endive, and salsify will give us a delightful start this year. Regarding varieties, a subject sadly neglected by too many, it should be said that more forethought should be given in their selection. As individual people differ from each other in their talents and characteristics so do varieties differ markedly from each other in their characteristics and qualifications. Some are early, some are mid-season, some are late; some are round, some flat, some long; some are one color, some another: some are universally desirable, some are mediocre. So if we would get exactly what we like and want and avoid disappointing substitutes we will pay more attention to our choice of varieties and we will not be satisfied to plant any old thing. In that case the study of varieties and their adaptations to our particular needs would be of stimulating interest to us. The amounts of each crop or of each variety which should be planted h^s long remained an unsolved problem with most people. In fact, no attempt is ordinarily made to solve the problem at all on the basis of actual needs. As a suggestive guide the following table gives the approximate amount of each of the common garden crops to plant under ordinary conditions for each member of the family: Beans: 25 ft. row. Parsley: 5 ft. row. Beets: 25 ft. row. Parsnips: 20 ft. row. Cabbage: 10 plants. Peas: 25 ft. double row. Carrots: 25 ft. row. Radishes: 10 ft. double row. Cauliflower: 10 plants. Spinach: 10 ft. row. Corn. Sweet: 15 hills. Squash: 2 hills. Lettuce: 10 ft. row. Tomatoes: 8 plants. Onions: 35 ft. row. Turnips: 10 ft. row. Of course the above amounts are only suggestive and will need modification on the basis of the individual preferences of members of the family. The quantities given should be multiplied according to the number in the family. Finally we come to the third phase of our garden problem, that of the actual work in planting and caring for the garden. This of course should be done in conformity to a definite prearranged plan. \Mien we go into the garden with our seeds and our planting tools we should know exactly the row or part of a row in which each crop and each variety is to be planted, the dis- 
 tance of the rows apart, the amount of seed to use.per hundred feet, and the numher of rows or parts of a row for each variety. The seedhed shoukl be in excellent condition with the proper moisture content in the soil so the seeds will germinate at once. The depth of planting should vary with the size of the seed, the smaller the seed, the less deeply it is planted. For the more slowly germinatingseed as parsnips and carrots it is frequently advisable to plant quickdy germinating seed, as radish, to mark the row. Weeds should be kept down, insects controlled, and proper cultivation and irrigation given. If a vigorous effort is made to solve the various problems indicated, the harvest should be abundant and the family correspondingly well fed. Summarizing then, we should do the following: measure our garden, make a definite plan of it on paper, study seed catalogues, choose the best varieties, order our seed, inckide some of the excellent vegetables we have not grown before in our seed order, have the soil well manured and plowed and harrowed or spadeVl, jjlant our crops according to schedule, grow companion and succession crops where possible or advisable, and make everv foot of soil produce as it has never pro(kiced before. The battle:s on and the fight must be won. The garden must do its share in the conflict by helping to feed the family.