[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Welding Link]

The Welding Link. By Nephi Anderson. In my dream. I left the mortal life and passed into the great spirit world; and. after a time, when I had become somewhat accustomed to my new environment. I was sent to preach the gospel to those who had not yet received it. either in earth-life or in the world of spirits. At first I marveled that there should be anyone in the region beyond mortal death who did not understand the plan of life and salvation; but when I contemplated the matter more carefully, it was made clear to me that all knowledge of truth must be obtained bythe exercise of the mental faculties, by faith and earnest desire to know; and that the mere passing of an individual from mortality to the spirit world would add nothing to that person's store of knowledge, save what would be gained from the ejiperience of the transition. A knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ must be obtained in the spirit world in the same way as it is obtained in the mortal world; and therefore was I. with m_any others, called to preach that gospel to those who knew it not. And as I w^ent out on my mission, it seemed to me that the experiences and the feelings which I had while filling a mission in mortality all came back to me; or at least, my doings and my emotions were the same, for I met many kinds of people wdio had ideas as varied and as strange as those I had found on the earth. I experienced great joy in bringing the glad tidings to those who would receive them. Especially was my joy great when I found men and women of my own kin who would listen to me. Many of these had lived far from me in earth-life, and had passed on into the spirit world many years before I had. Some of these received my message gladh', others at first strove against it, coming as it did against life-long beliefs and practices. It is with one of these latter that this dream of mine has more especially to do. 
 This ])art:cular man, T leanied. was my second qreat grandfather on my father's line, and he had Hved in the "Old Country" from which my parents had gathered to Zion. He told me he had been a "preacher of the gospel" for many years in earth-life. On hearing this, I told him that he should readily understand ami be glad to receive my message. At first he resented my cflforts to teach h-m. but after laboring patiently with him for a time, his anger was modified, and he listened to me. I told him of the restoration of the gospel to the earth, and that many of his descendants had received it and were engaged in building up the Kingdom of God, preparatory to Christ's coming to rule among the nations. I preached fa'th and repentance to him: and after a time, by the power of the Lord, his heart was touched. "I have always believed in the Lord Jesus," he said contritely"and; I preached repentance to the ungodly; and I was baptized — what more need I?" Then I explained to him that his baptism as an infant, being based on false doctrine, was not acceptable to the Lord. "You mean, then," he exclaimed, "that I have not been baptized!" "I mean," I replied, "that you were not baptized by one having authority, and further, the ceremony was not correct in either form or principle. Baptism is for the remission of sins, and you neither believed nor preached that. Your baptism was merely 'an outward sign of an inward grace' as you, yourself, used to say. Baptism is essential to salvation, and it must be preceded by faith in the true and living God — not the one 'without body, parts, or passions' — ^and by a godly sorrow or true repentance." Then in my dream, t thought this man strode away from me as if he was greatly worried or displeased; but as I went on l^reaching to the others who had gathered about me, I perceived that he came back again and stood listening to me more attentively than ever. When I ceased my speaking, and the others about me had departed, he remained. "I beg your pardon for my rudeness," he said. "Will you come with me? I want others of my people to hear what you have to say." Gladly I went with him. and I met many of his kinsfolk v.'hich also were mine. Many of them listened attentively and joyfully received my message of salvation. Time passed, for here my dream was not clear, but I remember distinctly that the time came when I had to leave my.people. T recall also that I had not told them all that I had to tell them. I had kept something back until such a time that I perceived in them a repentant spirit and an eagerness to receive of the blessTHE WELDING LINK. 249 ings of the gospel. Now on this occasion, when I was about to leave them for a time, there were many of my kinsfolk gathered about me. The}- seeme I to cling to me — there was something more which thev wante ' — son^e eager longing in their eyes — and T knew full well what it was. My secon.d great grandfather stood forth as spokesman for the company. "^^'e all believe your message," he sai 1; "and we have humbly rei:)ented; but we are as prisoners in a pit, and have no apparent means of escape. We have talked this over among ourselves, and we have concluded that it is our lack of bapt'.sm which detains us here. But baptism is an earthly ordinance, and cannot now be performed. What good is all this \v'hich you have been telling us? Have you come here to mock us? How can we escape?" The questions seemei to echo from the eager faces about me. Then it seemed to me in my dream that I stood up before them and said: "Aly friends and kindred, I am now going to tell you something which I have reserved for this occasion, for I see that you are now properly prepared to hear me. You believe in the gospel as I have taught it to vou, you are repentant in your hearts, and now vou cry out: 'What more can we do? How can we be baptized?' They crowded closely about me as I went on. "The Lord is good and kind as well as merciful and just, and He has provided a wav of escape for all his children who come to Him v/ith repentant hearts. Here with you, all mav believe an-l repent, though there is no baptism; but the Lord has provided for that. Li earthly temples, the living may be baptized for those vdio have come into this life without having the ordinance propel Iv done. That work has been going on for some time. In earthlv-life, I did some of that work. I dil'gently searched the records of my forefathers, and — yes, I found your names — all of yours. I think: fathers, mothers, children; and I arranged them properly in family groups, with the data for identification, in my records. And then — "" I could hardly go on, so eagerly and expectantly did my listeners press in about me. "And then." I continued. "I did or had done the work for you all that you could not do for yourselves. It is all there, standing to your credit in the books until such time when you are willing.to comply with the prerequisites and accept of it in the same way that vou would have done in the earth-life!" When I said this, the tense silence seemed to break into a murmur of joy. J\Iy own heart seemed to burst with happiness when I saw the joy on the faces about me. There was no need of wor'V. to tell me that these had accepted of the work which had 230 Kl-J.mr SOCII-I)' M.u;,l/J.\li. been done for them, for 1 seemed to see it in their very hearts. And then I understood also, without the telhngof words, that these my kin folks were emers^in^- from pris^on walls, and already the horizon of their lives stretched out into the freedom and blessedness of God's limitless heaveus. And then as I stood there, it came forcibly to me how imperfect had been my own salvation, apart from my kinsfolk of the flesh. The break between me and my peo])le seemed to close up, linked and hold securely by the binding" ])ower of unselfish love; and the joy in my own heart was multiplied by the number of the people unto whom I had been the means of bringing salvation. Sweetly, softly, those about nie began to sing a song of the redeemed; and as their voices rose into a mighty chorus, which seemed to echo into the heavens. T awoke from m\' dream. To My Mother in Israel. ( I\T\- Relief Society Teacher. ) AN.