[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: MOTHERHOOD]

MOTHERHOOD. By Flora S. Home. The purest joy the heart can feel. The strongest bond that love doth seal. The deepest truth that life can teach. The greatest height the soul doth reach. Fat and Fifty. The most vital and encouraging phase of the war necessity which demands less food rations and especially less fat-forming food materials is that which will compel fat people to rid themselves of superfluous foods and fats, while not injuring those people who often eat too much and keep thin carrying it around. To most American women the appalling rapidity with which fat is taken on at middle age is a problem which neither religion nor science solves; and yet the men or women who permit themselves to become overweight invite disease in at the door, make death a constant terror, and rob life of its best and most fruitful period. Women who pass the age of fifty should have twenty-five years more of healthful, vigorous activity. Released from the direct cares and burdens of motherhood a woman at this period of her life should be at liberty to get out into the world and achieve many public and private triumphs which were denied her during her years of active child-bearing. Yet into these years of wonderful possibilities stalks the ever-present tendency of that human body which is fitted up with active internal organs, to lay on fat and still more fat. Fat is unbecoming, a burden to its possessor, and a constant menace to health and long life. You hear women say they eat very little and that water fattens them. Shucks! They know better and you know better. It is true that they have inside of them a magnificent digestive factory that converts every ounce of superfluous food into fatty tissue;and then when the system can no longer make fat it makes trouble. Varicose veins, rheumatism, kidney trouble, torpid liver, cancerous stomach and fatty degeneration of the heart, all join hands with excessive food supplies to make a woman miserable and quite unable to do her work. Fat people need not eat much to keep fat, but they certainly ate altogether too much when they were getting fat. What are you going to do about it? Keep on being fat and getting fatter? Well, that is for you to say. How can one get thin and keep thin? Simplest way in the world. Eat only enough to keep the body properly nourished, of material that will not make fat, and the miracle is accomplished. All the religion in the world and all the science in the world won't avail you if you have no will power to stop eating fat-producing foods that crowd the body with superfluous tissue. There are many forms of diet recommended. One of them I saw tried was an exclusive diet of the skimmest of skim milk and rice for three months. Another form! of diet is to live on meat and vegetables without butter or grease or any kind of sweets or rice in its various forms in place of wheat bread. The body reonly as much as will keep the weight down to the figure you want.