[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Mother-Father Sacrifice]

The Mother-Father Sacrifice. By Diana Par risk. Tim and Geraldiiie and \'iola were back from New York. The family were all excited about it— and so were the neighbors. For the past two years the local papers through their Gotham correspondents had carried many notes about Tim and Viola and their accomplishments while they had often mentioned Geraldine in a social way. Detailed accounts had been given of Tim and h'.s work on a New York journal. Me had had his name featured on his paper's stafif, he had sold a number of stories to leading magazines and one of his articles had won the Metropolitan prize for the best original essay. After which he had been interviewed for one of the big dailies and had been given a write-up illustrated with a very flattering photograph of himself in their Sunday Magazine Section. It was quite an honor to be sure, for this same paper had published interviews with Galli-Curci, General Joffre, Yvette Gilbert and other celebrities. Stories of Viola's studies with the great masters had also been sent home. She had achieved an ecjually satisfactory success by dint of hard work, a good voice and her pleasing personality. She had studied chiefly with Madame X, once Caruso's teacher. ' She had sung for him at one of Madame's recitals and he had personally congratulated her and sent her tickets for one of his performances with a note inviting her to come behind the scenes afterward for a brief visit. Imagine receiving such honors from the greatest living tenor! \'iola had walked on air and lived in the clouds for a week afterward — and incidentally forgotten to reply to Henry's letter — Henry who was so much opposed to the musical career and was working day and night and savinghis money, longing for the time when they could begin to build their little nest. Just before leaving for home she had been soloist at.■^olian Hall with the New York Symphony Orchestra. She had done "11 dolce suono." the mad scene from "Lucia" and her name had been in all the New York papers next morning mentioning her singing with praise. Viola sighed when she got another letter from Henry that day wishing her a pleasant journey home. She packed her trunk with anything but jo}- for her mind was occup'ed with the humdrum existence that was staring her in the face — teaching vocal to pay ofi^ her debts and make it up to the family for their having let her go — and then 
IC.iZlXE. savingiij) enough money to take ir.orc studies. Slic lia'l closel the lid down with a bang. Anyway they were back. Every member of the family who wa.s not absolutely too busy or too sick went to the station to meet them and shed a few glad tears over them. Menry managed to get inside the gate and kissed \"iola in front of all the passengers in the observation car of the the California limited — much to their e:lification. be it said, for all world loves a lover. For a few minutes \iola forgot that there was any other music in the world but Henry's vo'ce. Then her ambitious self came to the top and she treated him very coldly for the rest of the evening. Tim and Geraldine were not long in getting re-established in their little house which mother had arranged to be vacated in plenty of time for a thorough cleaning before their return. They n-i.ade a few alterations, changed the spare bedroom into a study for Tim where he was to continue h's writing during the time he could si)are from the duties which he was to assume as Professor of Journalism at the University. Geraldine hung the fancy new curtains she had brought from New York and put down the two Persian rugs they had scraped together plough money to buy from a greasy old dealer, with a smooth tongue, in Thirtyfourth street. She also re-arranged the lights taking out all the glaring white ones in the chandeliers and putting in lamps shaded with soft colored silks. A writer's artistic temperament craved "atmosphere" and Geraldine like the good wife that she was determined that Tim should have it. When mother first saw the little house after the new lamps had been installed she callel it "The House of a Thousand Lampshades" and said it reminded lier of a book she had once read. The House of a Thousand Candles. lUit of course mother was not sujiposed to be up to the minute in New York fashions. .^fter the house was completed to Geraldine's satisfaction and Tim and A'iola had informally received their friends and admirers au'l had been qu'zzed to their satisfaction about their ex- ])eriences in New York, they decided that the thing to put them l)efore the'r home town i:)eo])le in the best light was to give a very formal musicale at which \'iola would perform and Tim would read Irs jirize essay. It should be ma 'e a high-toned afTan so that in the beginning they would establish themselves as holding only the highest i'^eals — ^so Tim woul 1 not be hindered by being asketl to do a lot of common writ'ng, publicity and such stuff, w^ithout pay. for the numerous charital)le societies of the city, and so that \'iola would immediatel\- attract rich and fashionable pupils who would be able to pay big prices without wincing and thus help her from the bondage of teaching in the quickest possible time. The guests w^ere to include the editors and THE MOTHER-FATHER SACRIFICE. 253 manag-ers music and of all the city'sandnewspapers, the rich the leading influential citizens professors that either Tim of or Viola knew. Last but not least, the city's patroness of Art was to be invited, Mrs. Leicester-Scissorem, who took in washing in a mining camp until her husband struck it rich. No function could be possible unless this grand dame was "among those.present." Now comes the part of my story that I hesitate to tell. I wish that I could gloss it over, or better skip it entirely, but that is impossible as there would have been no story without it. Perhaps the best thing to do is to go at it direct, for after all Tim and Geraldine and Viola are but human and very, very young in experience. So here it is— they wanted to get out of inviting mother and father to the musicale because mother had no evening dress and father had no dress suit, and because they had invited no one who could not wear the proper evening dress. 'T don't want to put dad in an embarrassing position," argued Tim bravely, when the three finally put their thoughts into words. "In his time a dress suit was out of the question — ^almost a sign that the man who wore it was going to the devil. And mother — '" He broke off lamely. "I am sure they would prefer not to be invited because they wouldn't like to refuse to come just on account of clothes, and yet if they came they would feel out of place by Mrs. LeicesterScissorem in her diamonds, put in Geraldine, not unkindly. Secretly she was feeling very conscience-smitten to think that before leaving New York she had bought an evening gown for one hundred and twenty-five dollars, a su't for a hundred and a petticoat for fifteen — ^a lovely petticoat it is true, of checked Jersey silk accordion-pleated in a most fascinating manner — but still fifteen dollars! She had found mother wearing her suit of two seasons before and the black silk dress that was three years old. "Anyway they don't care about classical music, and writing and art and things like that," put in -Viola, "and father will be sure to ask me to play the "Blue Danube Waltz" or sing "My Little Grey Home in the West." You know father hates trills and runs. Don't you remember the time when I first began to practice the high mi-mi-mi-mi mo-mo-mo-mo? he rushed into the room and asked me if I were in pain. We simply won't say anything about their coming and we can have another party that they will enjoy more." So the preparations for the musicale progressed and mother and father were not invited. Fortunately they were not in the least disturbed about this, simply taking it for granted that they were to go to the big affair which was causing no small stir in the fashionable musical circles. Several times Tim called himself a 
 cad and was on the vei\^e of goingto liis parents and making a clean breast of the whole thing — but he didn't. More than once as (jeraldine showed her new clothes to her admiring friends who came to call she was tempted to tell them of her selfish perfidy and insist that mother and father be invited — but she didn't. Often as Viola went through her exercises and her aria in preparation for the grand event, she heard her father's favorite "Blue Danube Waltz" and "Little Grey Home in the West" ringing in tiie l)ack of her head. She usually stopped and ran through them, thinking as she did so what a silly thing it was to leave mother and father out. Once as she saw mother carrying some ferns over piano tobench Geraldine's to decorate and started out to the house,to she confess her jumped what sheup had from been the guilty of thinking — but she didn't. The day before the musicale when Tim and Viola were rumaging in the attic for some old draperies to use on the small stage they were having put up, Viola stumbled across a little wooden box, very dingy and thick with dust. She opened it curiously. Within lay some crumpled flowers, brown and musty, an oldfashioned photograph of father, a long lock of golden hair tied with blue ribbon, two curious rings with all the sets gone, a dogeared manuscript and a little red stilT-backed book with "Diary" written across the cover. Viola picked u]) the diary and opened it. On the fly-leaf was mother's name. On the first page there was an entry. May 10th, 1886. Today is the first time nurse would let me write — and I was so anxious to get at my new diary. Baby was born three weeks ago, the fourth in five years — we are becoming quite a family! I worked at odd moments until the very last on my paper, "The Western with babies Pioneers," but dress, to feed and it is very difficult to housework to collect do and one's thoughts the little ones continually crying for some one to amuse them. I find that I am weaker than I thought. I can write no more today. Being a holiday. Daddy has taken the childrenJulyexcept 4th. the baby for a walk to relieve me. It amused me to see Bobbie and Timmie and even Isobel hurrying up for their promised picnic — they are growing up so fast. Timmie has the greatest attachment for baby Vi and cried furiously when T would not let them take the little mite along. T have been trying again to work on my paper but find it utterly impossible unless I neglect my family, which I will not do. THE MOTHER-FATHER SACRIFICE. 255 I had hoped to be able to have a nurse this summer, but Daddy says we cannot manage it as he did not get the raise he expected and the new baby has cost such a lot of money. I was greatly disappointed, of course, but could not complain when he bought me a new dress (which I needed badly) with the money he had been is suchsaving to buy to a comfort theme. spore butofour his dreams favorite of"Lucia." going to His Newplaying York to study and work at the things we love are slowly vanishing. Lately it is sad to see how he has to neglect his practicing. He used to be able to get in an hour or two every evening after supper, but he has to be up so often in the night with Viola that I find him dropping asleep at the piano from sheer exhaustion. Our little family — Viola was half stunned at what she read. It was like a voice from the grave. "Tim. Timmie." she called huskily to her brother who was in the other room. "Come here!'' She handed him the book silently. Tim read the astonishing pages. "Fve been an awful fool, \ i." he broke out. "Thank heaven it's not too late to mend. "He brushed a tear drop from his cheek. When the musicale came ofif you may be sure mother and father were there, seated right in front of Mrs. Leicester-Scissorem. Mother was wearing a A'entian lace collar and father was wearing a — but why bother with such details as clothes? The first important point is that they were as proud of their performing children as any parents could pK)ssibly be and that in these children the dreams of their youth were fulfilled. The second point is that Timothy's prize essay on the Great West contained some strong new passages about the sacrifice of pioneer mothers and fathers which he had put in after perusing a certain dogeared manuscript from a certain dingy, dusty box — passages which entirely changed the essay and made it more valuable than ever.. The third point is that when Viola sang her aria from "Lucia." father's favorite opera, she sang it with a new tenderness and understanding that had been totally lacking in her singing before. She finished up with the song he loved. "My Little Grey Home in the West," singing it with sympathetic expression that would have caused her New York teachers the utmost astonishment. As it was she brought a mist to the eyes of those asembled after all itand was made time to Henry's heart build the beatnest. little wildly with the hope that Unusual Mothers. MARY CALMULL CHANDLER. Of Pocatello Stake. MOTHER OF NINETEEN CHILDREN. Mary Calniull was born April 19, 1857, in Gravely, Cambridgeshire, luigland. She married Thomas Chandler, September 17, 1874, at Gravely, England. Was baptized into the Church June 15. 1876, in Ely, Cambridgeshire, England, and confirmed the same day. Sister Chandler is the mother of nineteen children — ten boys and nine girls. She left England June, 1879, and arrived in Logan, July of the same year. She was sealed in the Logan temple to her husband, and they had ten children sealed to them the same day (Nov. 28. 1895). She joined the Relief Society in 1881. For a short time they lived in Pocatello. Idaho, then removed to Tilden where they lived for about thirteen years and helped to buikl the new Church there by saving Sunday eggs; then they moved back to the Pocatello Second ward, and Sister Chandler is at the.present a teacher in the Relief Society, where she enjoys her labors. She visits the sick and helps all she can in the great work. With the exception of rheumatism in her feet, her health is good. Sister Chandler has now ten children living and thirty-seven grandchildren. HANNAH BRIGHT RITCHIE. Of North Weber Stake. ' MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. Hannah Brig-lit Ritchie was the daughter of John Bright and Sarah Webb Bright, was born January 1, 1840. at Wa-ddon, Cambridgeshire, England. She was baptized a member of the Church of Ji^'^v^ Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight years of age by Elder Orson Hvde, at Council Bluffs. UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 257 At an early age she crossed the plains with her At Garparents, by ox den Grove she team. had the sad misfortune of losingher death. Th's left her through mother with the care of four children. The father married again at Winter Quarters after which the lonesome journey to the Valleys of the Mountains was resumed. On the 2nd of February, 1857, she was married to Tames Ritchie in the Endowment House, by President Brigham Young. She is the mother of eighteen children, there heing twins three times. Eleven of her.children are Much has of Sister Ritchie's living, education been acquired in life's school of experience. For years she has been associated with the Relief Society. At the present time she is in fair health, is bright and active and lives solely for the happiness of her children, grandchildren and friends. JANE m'COWAN read. Of Juab Stake. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Jane McCowan Read was born in Liverpool, England, September 27, 1840. She emigrated to America with her parents in the year 1854, coming on to Utah the same year. Her father died in St. Louis, Missouri, of cholera, leaving her mother with three children. Jane came to Nephi \\hen fifteen years old with Brother Thomas Wright, and lived in his family until she married Winyard M'hitby at the age of 16 years. From this union there was one child, a son. When he was six months 
 old, Mr. Whitby left the Church ami went to California. Icavingf l.is wife and child in Nephi. In 1858 she married Robert Read, and from this union there were sixteen children — ten sons and six daughters — seven of these bein.qborn at three births. She went throuj^h all the hardships of ]Moneer life in Ne])hi, I'ving ofthere most theiruntil the had family year gone. 189*^^), when they moved to Idaho where She died-in 1914. She was an honest and industrious woman and a faithful Latter-day Saint. c.\tiii-;rixk.\. cxrukx kkxi.kv. Of Nortli Wt'ljcr Stake. MOIIIKR OF SKVKNTKKN (UnUKKX. Catherine.\. (iarden-Kenley was born Se])teniber 16. 1(S73. in, .Aberdeen. Scotland, and is the mother of seventeen children — the last were twins, born two years ago. Of this number eleven are living. Sister Kenley heard and embraced the gos])el in her native country, after which she and her husband were very desirous of gathering to Zion where they could receive the many blessings enjoyed by the Saints. Upon the eve of their departure, however, Sister Kenley was taken sud- (■enly ill and was unable to go. It was (decided, therefore, that her husband precede her with two of the children, and that she and the other two would follow later, which she was able to d'O in four months, through the administration of the elders and the blessings of the Lord in preserving her life which hung as by a thread for many weeks. She l)ears many wonderful testimonies of God's gooihiess toward her, and has always been willing, when able, to ('o her l)it in rolling on the work of the Lord. At present Sister Kenley enjoys good health. She lives in the Ogden Tenth Ward, is an active member of the Relief Society, and being blessed with an unusual vf)'ce takes great pleasure in the song service which she renders the ward choir of which she is a member.