A Very Special Place Betty Lou Martin HE car moved up the wide stretch of road and then, turning off the main thoroughfare, headed upward, steadily rising above the city. 'The mountains appeared large and luminous, and the homes were outlined in the distance, making a colorful patchworkquilt effect. Donna Arnold breathed a sigh. "Oh, Chris, it is truly beautiful up here. In fact, I believe that this is the most beautiful city in the world." Chris Arnold smiled at his wife. "T agree that it is beautiful, Donna, but I think you are unusually fond of it because it is going to be your new home." "No, dear, I've always been enchanted by it, even as a child when I used to come here to visit. It has such wide and beautiful streets and such a clean appearance, as if it had just been freshly scrubbed." "We should be coming to the house that the real estate agency told us about. Sam Cooper said it should be just what we're looking for,' Chris commented, as he maneuvered the car expertly up the hill. "I am truly excited about moving here, although I will miss our friends and relatives at home. Just think, dear, a brand new home, in a beautiful city, and you with a promotion in your job. Isn't it wonderful?" Donna could not hide her enthusiasm. "Yes, we are very fortunate. I[ will be glad to get things settled here quickly so we can bring the children." Page 446 "T just couldn't see taking them out of school until we were more settled. We'll probably have quite a time trying to unspoil them after they have been with your folks," Donna added smiling. Chris grinned. "I know, dear, but with your folks living here in the city now, it will be "interesting to see just whose folks do the best job of spoiling them." "I guess that grandparents feel that it is their privilege to spoil them. I don't know, though. It is plenty hard on the parents." "T think this is the house." motioned to his wife. He stopped in front of a rambling, red-brick house. Donna was the first one out of the car, and Chris tried to keep up with her as she hurried up the walk. "Oh, Chris, it is even more beautiful than Mr. Cooper described it to us. Hurry, dear, I can't wait to see it." Donna stood on the porch waiting for her husband to unlock the door. When they entered the house, they were both awed by its spaciousness and the good taste shown in its decorating. "I can't imagine anyone ever wanting to sell this house, Chris. Whoever lived here before certainly took good care of it," Donna said as they went from room to room investigating each segment of the house. The rumpus room boasted a door leading directly to the patio which faced the west overlooking the entire valley. Chris A VERY SPECIAL PLACE VENING was just falling over the city. Here and there in the distance a light flickered on. A gentle breeze stirred Donna's blonde hair, and the fresh air brought out the color in her cheeks. Her blue eyes twinkled happily as she took held of Chris' hand and_ gently squeezed it. He looked down at his wife knowingly. There wasn't any need to speak. As they stood there on the patio with the valley stretching before them, they both knew that this was the home they had dreamed of and planned for ever since they had been married. Donna was filled with plans and dreams for their future, and she chattered constantly about them on their ride back to the city. Chris listened, amused at his wife, but he, too, had to admit that he was just as happy as Donna. "IT am sure that we will be able to swing it with my new promotion, without living beyond our means," Chris told Donna. "T''ll talk to Sam Cooper, and tell him to hold the house for us. All right?" "All right," Donna nodded, and she could just visualize their three children, Mike nine, Cathy six, and Judy two, romping happily on the patio while she and Chris sat back contentedly watching them. The contract was drawn up for the house, and Chris and Donna planned to leave the next day to bring their children and belongings to their new home. That evening, while Donna was discussing her plans for decorating the house with her mother, the telephone rang. Her father answered and then beckoned to Chris. He talked for a few minutes in a low voice and then appeared in the door- 447 way. His shoulders seemed somewhat bent, and his usually pleasant face was grave. He looked older and more tired than Donna could ever remember. "That was Mom on the phone..." Chris began to speak. Donna gasped. "The children, they're all night?" "yes, 'titey'Te ime," Chris comforted his wife, "but it's Dad; he's had a heart attack. I think that we had better leave for home tonight." "Yes, of course; oh, poor Dad," Donna said anxiously. "Do they give him any hope?" "Yes." Chris' voice shook with emotion. "But the Doctor said he must be very, very careful and get his rest. He will be a long time recuperating, and we will have to be very patient with him. He's been so active all of his life." Chris frowned, trying not to show his fear. Sleepy little town greeted Donna and Chris as they pulled into Rosetown in the early morning hours. They went directly to the hospital and found Chris' mother by the bedside of her husband. Chris led his mother outside of his father's room. "Mom, you look worn out. Let Donna take you home. There isn't anything that you can do here right now. You'll need all the rest you can get." "T know it, but I hate to leave. He's been so sick, but he does seem a little better now." Mrs. Arnold spoke with effort. "Tl stay here, and if there is any change, I'll call you." Chris' heart ached as he watched the weary figure walk slowly down the hallway, leaning slightly on Donna for support as she walked. In the days that ensued it was touch and go for Chris' father, but, finally, the doctor informed them that the worst was over, and Chris' father had sucessfully passed the crisis. Once again Chris and Donna began to go ahead with their plans for moving. Chris was due in the city in a week, and they had a great deal of business to attend to before they could leave Rosetown. It was on one of his frequent visits to his parents' home that Chris noticed how his mother had been cutting down on little necessities; first it had been little items of food for herself, then trying to save on electricity. Chris pulled his Mother to one side and looked her sternly in the eyes. "Mom, you and Dad are managing all right financially, aren't you?" he asked bluntly. Mrs. Arnold could not meet her son's gaze as she spoke. "Of course, we are. You know that I naturally have to be more cautious, and now that your father won't be working for some time, I think that I should take precautions now." Chris thought back over the years that his folks had helped him and Donna get on their feet. There had been Donna's unexpected illness that had taken all of their savings. Then there was the time that they had wanted a vacation trip and couldn't afford it themselves, items for the children, and countless other times, much too numerous to mention. He and Donna had _ never asked for money, but his folks had always seemed to sense their need. They could never begin to pay back all that they owed his folks. Somehow, with the years, the amount had grown out of hand. When he had refused their help, they always appeared to be hurt and had said, "You are our only child, Chris. If we can't have the pleasure of helping you and your family out a little, what good are we?" HRIS thought it over carefully that night on his drive back to Donna and the children. Consequently, the rest of the evening was marred by the thoughts of his folks and the countless things they had given up for his comfort and _his family's comfort. Donna broke the silence that had been plaguing Chris. "I know there is something wrong, Chris. Ever since you have come back, you have hardly spoken a word. What is ilk, dear? Dad is all right, isn't he?" Chris explained to Donna the thoughts that were going through his mind. After he had finished talking, Donna was silent. She put the children to bed, and then joined Chris in the living room. "Tve been thinking about your folks, Chris." Donna stood before her husband, solemn and intent. "Tt is our duty and responsibility as their family to help them out." Chris looked up startled. "Donna, I want to very much, but you have your heart set on the new house. We just can't swing the house and help out Mom and Dad, too." Donna sat down on the couch beside Chris. "Chris, if you had had the heart attack and your folks were planning to buy a new house, just what do you think their choice would be? [ll tell you, dear, there just wouldn't be a choice. They would, as they have always done, devote themselves to helping us. I A VERY SPECIAL PLACE think that we should do the same thing. Here's our chance to do as we've been taught, and to show them how much we love them." "Then you won't mind giving up the house?" Chris felt as if a great weight had been lifted from his shoulders. "Of course, I would have loved the house, but we'll just have to look for something smaller in a cheaper neighborhood. In_ the meantime, we'll stay with my folks until we can find something suitable." Chris and Donna found a smaller house in the city nearer to Chris' work, and Donna worked diligently to get it in order. She planned the colors for each of the rooms with 449 loving care, and the smell of fresh paint and clean curtains was apparent throughout the house. They never again mentioned the house that they had planned to buy somewhere up on the mountainside. They were too happy and contented in the knowledge that they were being a son and daughter to Chris' mother and father. Maybe sometime in the distant future they might buy a house up on the mountainside, but they had grown very fond of their cozy little bungalow that was situated in the heart of the city, and it held a very special place in their hearts. 'They knew they would never exchange the joy of serving loved ones for a house of brick and stone.