Work ITleeting— Attitudes and Manners How Do You Do? (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1 — Manners Matter Elaine Anderson Cannon For Tuesday, October 10, 1961 Objective: 'To show that good manners are fundamental in establishing harmonious relationships with our fellow beings. N the matter of manners... They matter! Manners are our social security. They are the "open sesame" to friends and fun, to satisfying experiences, and worthwhile achievement. They are the saving grace in the complexities of family living. They are the very thing about our way of life which makes us a civilized people. Our manners silently say that we are alert and aware, thoughtful and considerate, that we respect ourselves as well as others, that we are responsible and responsive, and that we are entirely pleasant to be around. Or they may suggest the exact opposite. In the matter of manners, how do YOU do? This is indeed a question we each should ask ourselves. Being typical human beings, we undoubtedly note the need for some improvement. Our next step should be to set about on a program of self-improvement, not only in the matter of manners, 480 social behavior, and in our dealings with others, but in our appearance and our personality as well. For our own happiness this study is important. There are at least three other main reasons why such a program of improvement is worth the effort. 1. We are a Church with lay leaders, teachers, and participants. In this type of organization, it behooves us all to excel in the art of proper human relationships. How many of our programs in the Church are hindered because of hurt feelings, misunderstandings, improper considerations, offensive behavior, and poor example? 2. We have the eyes of the world upon us as a Church. We have often been termed a "peculiar people." But if it should be used because some among us show lack of culture, or good taste, or insufficient respect for self or others, the term would not be complimentary. By good example we can attract many people to the Church and influence others favorably. 3. We are the women in the Church, and our example of gentleness and mod-. Esty is communicated from our homes into the lives of our children and into our Church and social activities. Good behavior demands a certain willingness to discipline oneself for the sake of others. It is putting their comfort before our own. Observing definite rules, as well as simply being considerate, has great value also. It gives conformity and orderliness to social situations. In any interplay among human beings, where there is a difference of opinion, personalities, and activities, it is only logical to have some regulations for behavior. 'Thev serve as a kind of traffic semaphore. They give us a feeling of security because we know what to do when acquainted with the established rules of living with others. Good manners, good taste, indi . 1961 cate our respect or lack of it for the dignity of man, the worth of the human soul. Because we are members of the true Church of Jesus Christ, we should try to be superior people in all respects, not the least being our dealings with other children of God. Behavior doesn't depend upon material things or external tools. It depends upon us. It is, in the final consideration, so much a reflection of our character, that, good or bad, it shows us for what we truly are. A woman never feels so feminine as when a man is being a gentleman. A woman feels rightful pride when she witnesses her son or husband, her brother or her father, perform an act of consideration and thoughtfulness. A woman can and should inspire proper behavior. She can also instruct her sons, for by her very nature and the experiences she constantly encounters, it is she who can advise and remind of the social amenities so vitally important in social interplay. Skill in social behavior fosters good public relations, saves embarrassing moments, protects reputations, guards against misunderstandings, increases efficiency, creates a mood for spirituality, encourages understanding, improves personality. ~A woman should allow a man (this, incidentally, includes her husband) every opportunity to do things for her, such as carrying her packages (not her personal handbag, however) opening doors (as they approach the door she should step to one side so that he can reach the knob), helping her with her coat (she hands it to him rather than struggling with it herself). Family night rehearsals in the art of helping LESSON DEPARTMENT one in and out of a coat could prove beneficial. If she drops something in the presence of a man, she doesn't try to beat him to the floor to retrieve it. If she has already climbed from the car, before he can get around to help her, he can't very well open the door for her. In ordinary situations, she should wait until he comes. If he momentarily forgets, he will soon notice she isn't beside him and come back for her! At which point she should smile her sweetest and thank him sincerely — an act which should follow each of the thoughtful things he does for her. Both young men and young women stand when a much older man or woman enters the room. This is 481 to show respect. A young man also stands when any woman, except a child, comes into his presence. So in the matter of manners — they matter, not as a simple performance of rules, but as a motivation from thoughts which mark us as being well-bred, a good Christian, a beloved and loving soul. Questions for Discussion 1. Why is it worthwhile to learn the basic rules of etiquette? 2. How are good behavior and religion related? 3. Is it consistent for one to be an active Church member and _ disregard proper behavior patterns? 4. Discuss some of the ways women can encourage men in social graces. 5. Consider the statement: "It is as wrong to take offense easily as to give it." S