[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: UNJUST DECISION. | Author: Unknown]

UNJUST DECISION.
	The decision recently rendered in regard to the
rights of children born in Polygamy to any in-
heritance in the father’s estate was to say the
least very surprising. “Polygamous children can-
not inherit,” so says Judge Henderson and Judge
Zane concurs.
	Now we ask why? Because you are such a
just monogomist and say they cannot, must it be
so? Have you or has any one a right to make
laws to reach back half a century, and power to
make a law where there was none to bear on all
cases not under your jurisdiction? I have been
reading a decision rendered by this high tribunal
on the same case.
	“That the law of 1862 debarred all children, born
after this law was passed, from inheriting their
father’s estate.” How about the children born be-
fore there was any law made against their inher-
iting, or before there was any law against polyg-
amy. The decision of this Judge is wonderful in-
deed, to extend away back to the time when
there was no law at all upon the subject.
	Children born out of wedlock not in,has not the
least shadow of bearing on those who are born in
the order of plural marriage; plurality of wives
was permitted by the government to continue
many years, and you say there was a law that
such children should inherit their father’s estate;
this was a righteous law and as it should be not-
withstanding the decision of these Judges. The
father should support his own offspring and not
leave it to the mother. But these Judges like
men of the world want to throw all the blame,
and the trouble upon the women and children
and let the men go free. Before God men in the
world who commit unrighteous acts will be
punished and have to bear the shame. Man was
created to be woman’s protector and not her be-
trayer and destroyer. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints does not countenance
the stale of things that exists in the world, but
disfellowships adultery,and its members raise tbeir
voices against sin and evil doing, if it were not so

[COLUMN 2]
this Church wou'd not and could not be the true
Church of Christ.
	I am the wife of the late Hon. Orson Pratt. I
was married to him many years ago and have
four living children all born in lawful wedlock and
before the law of 1862 was passed, or so much
harped upon by woman-haters who would rather
see woman polluted and kept out of honorable
marriage than answer the end of her creation, by
being the wife of a just, upright, and virtuou
good man. Unprincipled men would rather have
women out of wedlock, to debase and defame,and
they with high head and unblushing face, stalk
abroad without a blot of law to tarnish their good
name, or character; but unfortunate, down-trod-
den, law-helpless women, are subject to the lords
of creation,who make the laws to suit themselves,
to serve their whims, and caprices and allow wo-
men no voice in making the laws. The women
of this Territory enjoyed the right of franchise, it
was given them by large-hearted Mormon men,
they are the woman’s friend and place her on an
equality with themselves, and she has a right to
vote on all Church questions. But monogomists
took the ballot from women.
	Such a state of things will exist as long as
men and their man-made laws oppose honorable
plural marriages. There is an inherent principle
in man to increase his species, in other words to
obey that first commandment to multiply and re-
plenish the earth; woman to be his helpmeet and
glory in lawful wedlock to increase his dominions 
in the upward road to progression. Few men are
worthy though of these great blessings. The
patriarchal man has broad views, his love for wo-
mankind expands, he accepts marriage upon a
broader platform, the wife is to be his equal, he
grants her every right that he enjoys, she is the
parent of his children, their mother, their youth-
ful instructor, their guide. The parents believe
that God sanctions their union; they kneel at
the family altar and ask God’s blessing daily to
rest upon their household; they pray that all their
acts may be in righteousness in all things; they
have true knowledge and the still small voice
whispers they are right.
	Congress and the lawmakers must go back to the
ancients judges if they set up these standards, for
away in the ages of the past these marriages
were countenanced, and God approved them and
the children received of the father’s inheritance.
