[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V42_06_00_Misc]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President
Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer
Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman

Vol. 42 JUNE 1955 No. 6

The Cover: "Aristocrat Roses," Photograph by Ward Linton
Frontispiece Photograph: "The Grand Teton and Jenny Lake, Wyoming" Photograph by Don Knight
Cover Design by Evan Jensen

Srom lear and Sar
I read Lael W. Hill's remarks in the "From Near and Far' department in the April Magazine, then reread her mother's lovely poem in the February issue ("'Poet's Mother").

Lael has always been an inspiration to me ever since we wrote for the Tribune Junior as children. I have often wondered if we weren't married on the same day, as our marriage licenses were published in the paper on the same day. I hope some day she will publish a book of her wonderful poetry. I would be one of the first to buy a copy.
—Nell B. Brenchley
Preston, Idaho

We in the Cedar Second Ward read our Relief Society Magazine and realize what a wonderful privilege it is for us to study these lessons, to enjoy each interesting story and poem. In the special short story issue for April (1955), the bird photographs are most unusual, also the floral pictures. The table decoration is teally eye-catching. The moment the Magazine arrives I sit right down with it, regardless of what I might be doing.

Recently a number of young married girls who are not attending Relief Society meetings regularly are reading the Magazine with great interest, and vote it their choice.
—Genevieve MacFarlane
Cedar City, Utah

I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. In fact, it was the Magazine which my mother and grandmother read before anything else.
"I love this little Magazine,"
Said my mother long ago.
"There is so much here to be seen,
So many things to know."
Today I spent a quiet hour
With a copy of my own
And marveled at its healing power
When I could be alone.
—Gertrude T. Kovan
Provo, Utah

Page 346

My aunt, Mrs. E. Jones of Spanish Fork, Utah, subscribes to The Relief Society Magazine for me, and I do want to let you know how much I enjoy every issue. I belong to the Presbyterian Church, and am a member of the Missionary Society. When I take here, take my turn conducting the deliberations, I am delighted to say I have used some verses from your splendid Magazine. We are all following in His steps.
—Miss Catherine Harvey
Montreal, Canada

I received the Magazine as a gift from my mother and have appreciated it so much these past two years while I have lived in Turkey. 'There are no other members of the Church around here, and I have found the stories and messages from the Relief Society general board and the Church Authorities so uplifting. My husband reads and enjoys the Magazine, too.
—Mrs. Betsy Long
Golcuk, Turkey

It is a great inspiration to read the messages of wise counsel from our great leaders whom I have learned to love, even though I have never met them personally. I am reading with some interest. Every article about the new Relief Society Building, and I hope some day to visit Salt Lake City.
—Mabel A. O. Lindblad
Willmar, Minnesota

We wish to extend our sincere thinks for The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful to see and examine the contents thereof. In Haarlem we have a lovely Relief Society organization. 'There are few members that can read fluent English, but we all enjoy the illustrations indeed.
-Sister S. M. Van Gelder
Vester Haarlem, Holland

Our good Magazine is one of the closest touches of home and good old Utah. I really enjoy it.
—Helen McGee
Roseville, Michigan