[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: — A Rich Heritage Christie Lund Coles 355 Blossoms in Lava Willard Luce 358 "How Can It Please the Human Pride?" CaroUne E. Miner 371 Selling the Rehef Society Magazine Edith G. Baum 374 The Morning-Glory Horn Nell Murbarger 376 A Good Day Margaret Hardy 392 FICTION A Good Life Vera Mayhew 360 First in My Heart Maryhale Woolsey 380 Green Willows — Chapter 5 Deone R. Sutherland 393 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 346 Sixty Years Ago 366 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 367 Editorial: The 125th annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 368 "From Sea to Shining Sea" Vesta P. Crawford 370 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 372 Brigham Young University Leadership Week 372 Hymn of the Month 372 New Serial "Hermanas" to Begin in July 373 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 398 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Elizabeth Lee Butler Finds Hobbies Indoors and Outdoors 379 Let Ironing Day Be a Pleasant Day for You Rhea H. Gardner 388 Washing Blankets Rhea H. Gardner 391 Herbs for Modern Cookery — Basil Elizabeth Williamson 416 LESSON DEPARTMENT— TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1955-56 Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons Mildred B. Eyring 403 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Leland H. Monson 405 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Edith S. Elliott 407 Work Meeting — Food Preparation and Service Rhea H. Gardner 408 Literature — Literature of England Briant S. Jacobs 410 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States Albert R. Bowen]
FIRST  IN  MY  HEART 
385 
''Of  course/'  she  assured  him.  Her 
eyes  searched  his;  she  thought  his 
arms  moved  a  httle  as  if  they'd 
meant  to  take  her  but  hesitated. 
Suddenly  —  ''Vivie,  you  have  to 
be  my  girl!"  he  exclaimed.  "I  wish- 
darling,  I  need  to  know!  I  can't  .  .  /' 
he  broke  off,  as  if  he'd  been  about 
to  say  something  he  couldn't  bear 
to  think  about. 
AGAIN,  Vivian  had  to  say,  "I 
don't  know,  myself,  Ted.  I  don't 
know  why,  but  that's  how  it  is." 
Her  voice  trembled;  she  felt  near 
tears.  It  was  just  too  much,  she 
guessed,  that  both  of  them  should 
speak  this  way  to  her,  tonight. 
''Well  —  see  you  Wednesday!" 
Ted's  smile  seemed  to  cause  a  little 
crinkly,  ruffling  edge  around  her 
heart.  She  tried  to  remember  if 
Rick's  smile  had  ever  done  that  to 
her. 
Ted  .  .  .  Rick  .  .  .  Loree.  No 
matter  what  I  decide,  she  thought, 
I  have  to  hurt  two  of  them!  I  wish— 
I  wish  .... 
What  did  she  wish,  really? 
Beside  her,  Loree  stirred  and 
sighed  in  her  sleep.  Vivian's  heart 
swelled,  loving  her,  and  remember- 
ing the  sweet,  young-old  wisdom 
with  which  she'd  said,  "Be  honest 
with  yourself,  Vivie!"  She  had 
promised  .... 
And  now,  suddenly,  the  words 
seemed  to  hold  her,  suggesting  a 
special  meaning.  Vivian  let  her 
thoughts  grope  —  what  do  I  most 
truly  want  to  do?  And  presently  the 
answer  came:  I  want  to  be  with 
Loree,  for  now.  I  want  us  to  be  a 
hmily,  until  she's  on  her  own.  She 
wouldn't  be  happy,  having  a  broth- 
er-in-law provide  for  her;  she'd  feel 
an  imposed  outsider,  not  really  be- 
longing. I  want  her  to  feel  she 
does  belong,  Vivian  told  herself. 
That  means  us— Loree  and  me,  be- 
longing together,  for  awhile  yet.  It's 
truly  the  most  important  thing  to 
me  .... 
Why,  that's  it!  She  almost  cried 
the  words  aloud.  Loree  is  fiist  in 
my  heart.  That  being  so,  neither 
Ted  nor  Rick  can  be  chosen.  I  hope 
I  can  make  them  understand,  she 
thought,  that  it's  what  I  really  want 
—not  something  I  feel  a  duty  or 
obligation  I'd  prefer  to  be  with- 
out .... 
5!c    sjc    5j<    >!«    ^ 
HTED  seemed  to  understand,  she 
thought  relievedly,  when  she 
told  him  Wednesday  evening,  fin- 
ishing with,  "I'm  just  not  going  to 
consider  marriage  for  at  least  two 
years  more.  That's  too  long  a  time 
to  ask  you  to  wait,  Ted." 
"Yes,  it  is,"  Ted  said  slowly,  his 
eyes  meeting  hers  squarely,  although 
the  disappointment  in  them  was 
plain  and  deep.  "But  it's  what  I'll 
be  doing,  I  guess.  There's  only  one 
thing  will  make  me  quit  waiting 
around  for  you,  Vivie— that  you'd 
not  be  around  to  wait  for  .  .  .  avail- 
able, as  we'd  say."  He  pounded  a 
sofa  cushion,  dejectedly. 
Vivian's  eyes  were  suddenly  warm, 
brimming.  "Ted,"  she  said  un- 
steadily, "that's  a  —  JoveJy  thing  to 
say!     I   " 
"Is  it?  I  didn't  mean  to  make 
you  cry!  Here,  have  a  shoulder.  At 
your  service,  if  you'll  make  use  of 
it,"  he  said  whimsically,  yet  tender- 
ly- 
It  seemed  she  would  "make  use 
of  it,"  for  a  few  minutes.  It  seemed 
something  had  broken  loose  inside

386 
RELIEF  SOCEITY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1955 
her  and  started  a  torrent  of  tears 
.  .  .  crazy!  she  thought  .  .  .  and  at 
the  same  time,  how  sweet  Ted  is, 
holding  me  this  way,  comforting 
me! 
Her  sobs  ceased  abruptly  when 
he  said,  ''Maybe  this  is  the  way  it 
has  to  be  for  awhile,  Vivie  darling, 
ril  be  a  shoulder  for  you  to  lean 
on,  when  you  need  it,  however  you 
need  it."  And  when  she  sat  sud- 
denly upright  so  she  could  look  into 
his  face,  he  went  on  with,  ''Oh,  Fll 
be  sticking  around,  all  right.  Be 
dropping  in  most  any  time,  if  it's 
okay  with  you."  He  paused,  and 
sighed.  "Two  years  is  a  long  time 
to  wait,  but  it's  better  than  forever, 
without  you!" 
Softly  Vivian  said,  "Ted,  you're— 
wonderful.  Fm  glad  you  feel  that 
way — and — dropping  in,  any  time, 
will  be  okay  with  me." 
Telling  Rick,  was  harder.  In  his 
hurt  and  disappointment,  he  inter- 
rupted her  impatiently:  "You've  got 
a  martyr  complex,  Viv.  I've  told 
you,  I'll  take  care  of  Loree  .  .  .  ." 
"It  is  not  a  martyr  complex,"  Viv- 
ian told  him.  "It's  what  I  most 
want  to  do."  She  repeated  slowly, 
almost  the  same  words  she  had  used 
to  tell  Ted.  "It  isn't  fair  to  ask  you 
to  wait  that  long." 
Rick  drew  a  long  deep  breath. 
His  eyes  were  the  darkest  smoke- 
black  she  had  ever  seen  them.  "No," 
he  said  at  last,  "it  isn't— fair.  I'm 
twenty-six,  and  I  want  my  own  life, 
my  own  home,  my — wife.  I've 
wanted  you,  and  I've  tried  hard  to 
get  you  to  see  things  my  way  and 
want  to  come  along  with  me.  But 
if  you  can  put  me  off  so  definitely 
for  two  years  or  so— well,  it  seems 
pretty  evident  you  don't  love  me, 
and  the  chances  are  you  never  will. 
Maybe  I  should  do  some  looking 
around,  elsewhere." 
"Maybe  you  —  should.  Rick." 
The  heaviness  in  Vivian's  heart 
grew  heavier,  and  cold.  "I'm  sor- 
ry  .  .  .  ." 
He  interrupted  again.  "Never 
mind  being  sorry.  There's  one  thing 
I  want  to  ask  you,  though.  Are 
you  giving  Banks  this  same  kind  of 
runaround?" 
A  little  spark  of  anger  stirred  in 
Vivian's  heart.  "I  don't  like  that 
word.  Rick.  But  I've  already  told 
Ted  exactly  the  same  thing  I've 
told  you." 
"I  apologize  for  the  bad  word, 
Vivie.  Excuse  it,  please,  on  grounds 
of  —  shall  we  say  —  extreme  pain 
and  mental  anguish?"  Rick  managed 
a  grin.  "I'll  try  to  be  a  more  cheer- 
ful loser." 
"Excellent!"  Vivian  smiled. 
"Can't  keep  a  good  man  down,  you 
know.  Oh,  Rick  —  whatever  you 
do,  I'll  always  be  wishing  you  the 
best  of  —  everything.  You've  been 
wonderful  —  we've  had  such  good 
times  together,  and  it's  wonderful 
that  you  should  have  wanted 
me  .  .  .  ."  Strange  words,  she 
thought,  to  be  saying  to  Rick! 
Already  they  seemed  to  suggest 
finality:  ".  .  .  that  you  should  have 
wanted  me  .  .  .  ."  Not  that  you 
want  me  .... 
He  was  holding  out  his  hand  to 
her,  like  a  stranger  already!  Oh, 
how  could  things  change  so? 
OUT  when  he  had  gone,  she  felt 
more  relief  than  regret.  He  was 
hurt,  yes;  but  not  too  badly.  With 
Rick,  it  was  having  a  home  that  was 
important,  having  —  a  wife.    He'd

FIRST  IN  MY  HEART  387 
find  someone,  soon,  probably,  who  Blessed,  darling  Ted!  She  should 
would  fill  his  need  very  well.     But  have  known  it  was  Ted  anyway,  all 
with  Ted,  it  was  Vivian  who  was  the  time.    She  had  dreaded  huiting 
most  important.    Why  ....  Rick  .  .  .  but  she  had  dreaded  losing 
Hey  there!     Vivian  said  to  her-  Ted!    And  Ted  —  wouldn't  get  lost, 
self,  you  with  the  —  fog  in  your  Glorious,  glad  certainty  filled  Viv- 
eyes   —   and  heart,   isn't   that   the  ie's  heart.    Ted's  and  Rick's  differ- 
sign  you  needed  to  look  for?    You  ent  reactions  had  been  the  key  she 
have  it  —  after  honestly  looking  in-  needed,  had  shown  her  how  each 
to  your  heart,  you  could  see  the  first  felt  about  her.    Oh,  she  was  glad  of 
step  clear  .  .  .  and  then,  someone  the  way  things  were  turning  out! 
else  could  take  one,  and  show  you  t     i.i,     v  •                  i,      i.     j  i, 
^,              r^      M    i.  In  the  livmg  room  she  stood  by 
the  one  after  that  ....  ^i,    ,.  i     i,                ^-      u        n  t-  j 
All  at  once,  everything  was  start-  ^he  telephone,  wantmg  to  call  Ted 
lingly    clear.     Being    honest    with  ^^^    ^^^^    ^im.     But    she    decided 
yourself,  even  if  someone  gets  hurt  agamst  it.     She  had  a  funny  little 
has  to  be  the  first  thing  in  your  wish  to  keep  her  discovery  all  to 
heart.     Then,  other  things  —  and  herself,  just  for  a  little  while.    Ted 
people  —  can  fit  in  where  they  be-  would   be   dropping   in,   most  any 
long.     Rick,  taking  my  decision  as  time  .  .  .  and  she'd  like  to  see  his 
he  did,  made  his  own  next  step,  face  when  she  would  be  telhng  him. 
and  now  Ted  .... 
V(/eeas 
Ida  Isaacson 
Weeds  have  a  beauty  all  their  own. 
Though  we  leave  them  quite  alone. 
Along  the  ditchbank  or  against  the  fence. 
Weeds  are  arrayed  with  diffidence. 
Wind-tossed,  shaking,  mud-mixed  and  bent — 
Still,  yes — still  they  are  heaven  sent. 
LKeturn 
Catherine  E.  Berry 
The  house  has  been  quiet  too  long, 
My  heart  has  been  too  still, 
I  could  hear  the  wind  in  the  willows. 
The  rain  running  over  the  hill. 
Your  voice  had  left  every  corner 
Of  each  room,  big  and  small, 
I  could  feel  the  loneliness  walking, 
The  sorrow  that  lurked  in  the  hall. 
But  now  you  are  home,  beloved. 
The  house  no  longer  grieves, 
And  the  rain  is  a  distant  murmur, 
Like  the  wind  in  the  willow  leaves.

csLet  Uroning  [jOa^   \Be  a  [Pleasant   ®a|/  for  you 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension  Service  Home  Management  and  Furnishings  Specialist 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
QOOD    ironing    can    give    that  sens    the    time    required    for    the 
finished,  new  look  to  clothes  clothes  to  stand  before  ironing.  Use 
we  all  love  to  see.    How  our  clothes  a  bottle  with  a  sprinkler  top  or  a 
are  ironed  has  its  effect  on  our  atti-  brush  and  pan  of  water  for  sprin- 
tude  toward  and  feelings  about  our-  kling.    From  two  to  three  hours  are 
selves.     A     spotlessly     clean     and  generally  needed  for  the  moisture  to 
smoothly  ironed  article  of  clothing  become  uniformly  distributed  and 
causes  self-respect  to  rise.     A  dress  clothes  ready  to  be  ironed, 
with    a    scorched    collar,    puckered         The  best  amount  of  dampness  for 
seams  and  hemline,  wrinkled  sleeves,  ironing  must  be  determined  by  the 
or  crooked  pleats  is  devastating  to  person  who  is  to  do  the  ironing, 
one's  morale.  Too  much  dampness  lengthens  the 
Ease  in  ironing  really  starts  when  ironing  period  and  makes  seams,  col- 
you  buy  your  clothes  and  other  ar-  lars  and  plackets  more  difficult  to 
tides.     Give   serious   consideration  iron.    With  too  little  dampness,  it 
to  the  amount  of  care  needed  to  is  difficult  to  iron  out  the  wrinkles, 
keep  them  looking  new  before  buy-  Sprinkle    clothes    uniformly,    then 
ing.  ioldy  don't  roll  them. 
The  complete  removal  of  soil  dur-         Ironing  is   easier  and  takes  less 
ing    the    washing    process    and    a  time  if  all  the  equipment  needed  is 
thorough    rinsing    are    essential    to  assembled     and     conveniently     ar- 
beautifully  ironed  articles.  You  will  ranged  before  you  start  to  iron.    A 
save  ironing  time  if  you  are  careful  square  of  asbestos  placed  at  the  wide 
in  handling  your  clothes  during  the  end  of  the  board  to  set  the  hot  iron 
washing  and  wringing  process.  Shake  on  when  it  is  not  in  use  is  conve- 
out  the  wrinkles  as  much  as  pos-  nient  and  prevents  much  lifting  of 
sible  and  smooth  the  collars,  cuffs  the  iron.  Place  dampened  clothes  at 
and  plackets  when  you  hang  dresses  convenient  height,  either  by  putting 
and  shirts  on  the  line.    Hang  clothes  the  clothes  basket  on  a  chair  or  by 
and  household  articles  straight  and  putting    clothes    in    a    basket    on 
pin  them  on  the  clothes  line  at  the  wheels.      Have    a    clothes    rack   or 
strongest  part  to  prevent  their  being  table    within   arm's    reach   for   the 
stretched  out  of  shape  while  drying,  ironed  clothes.    A  sponge  or  cloth 
If  similar  items  are  hung  together,  in  a  pan  of  water  and  placed  nearby 
time   can   be   saved   when   sorting,  will  save  steps  when  extra  moisture 
folding,  and  ironing.  When  remov-  is  needed  while  ironing, 
ing  clothes  from  the  line,  fold  them         An  ironing  board  that  is  at  a  com- 
lightly  before  placing  them  in  the  fortable    working    height    helps    to 
basket  to  prevent  extra  wrinkling.  prevent  the  development  of  fatigue. 
Warm  water  for  dampening  les-  There  is  no  one  right  height  for 
Page  388