[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: GOVERNOR PROCLAIMS THANKSGIVING. | Author: Unknown]

GOVERNOR PROCLAIMS THANKSGIVING.
	In accordance with the usual custom,
Governor Wells today issued his Thanks-
giving proclamation, designating Thurs-
day, Nov. 27, as Thanksgiving day. The
proclamation follows in full:
PROCLAMATION.
	Conforming to the revered custom initi-
ated by the pilgrim fathers, in full accord
with the desires of our happy and prosper-
ous people, and in harmony with the
proclamation of the President, I. Heber
M. Wells, Governor of the State of Utah.
do hereby designate Thursday, the 27th
day of November instant, as a day of praise
and thanksgiving to God for the countless
blessings and benefits showered upon the
people of this State.
	At no time, in our history have the
material, educational and social comforts of
life been so abundantly and universally be-
stowed as during the year now drawing to
its close; nor has the promise and potency
of the future seemed so fraught with every
earthly blessing.
	I therefore recommend that the people of
this State in their places of worship and at
their homes, observe with reverent joy, and
with uplifted hearts and with the wide ex-
tended hands of good fellowship this Thanks-
giving day.
	In testimony whereof I have hereunto
set, my hand and caused the great seal of
the State of Utah to be hereunto affixed.
	Done at Salt Lake City this 13th day of
November, 1902.
[Seal]		HEBER M. WELLS.
By the Governor,
	J. T. HAMMOND, Secretary of State.


[Column 1]
HOW TO CULTIVATE FAITH.
The abundant evidence of the truth of
the Latter-day work and dispensation seems
to those who are living in the light of testi-
mony to preclude all disbelief even in the
young and inexperienced, and yet one finds
here and there a doubting Thomas, and one
marvels that such things can be among the
children of the Saints and wonders what
should be the remedy? How should we as
parents instil faith into the minds of the
young people? Is there a positive method
for preventing unbelief springing up in the
minds of the youth of Zion ? Our little
children who are trained in the Primary
Association to speak, to give expression in
what we term testimony bearing, must it
would seem, have greater faith than those

[Column 2]
who do not have this special opportunity.
In the past we may have left too much
to the advantages of birth; there was a
very prevalent idea that the children of
faithful parents, especially those born in
the new and everlasting covenant could
not go wrong; and in many instances this
idea has perhaps led to neglect. There was
not at all times such constant watchfulness
and strenuous exercise of control, as ought
to have been maintained in the care of the
children of Zion. A sort of apathetic faith
that was never put in practice, taken for
granted on the part of parents. To be a
Latter-day Saint one must have living faith
that will help one’s daily life; a constant
performance of duty will build up faith in
the soul and in the character because then
we have faith in ourselves; courage is
necessary to faith and so is energy, a faith
without energy is a failure. Faith in God
will help us to commune with Him through
His Spirit, it is an active principle.
The Book of Doctrine and Covenants has
excellent lessons upon this subject that if
carfully studied will naturally benefit those
whose faith needs strengthening. Some
exertion must come from the individual
man or woman, boy or girl. The teacher
may point the way, may even illustrate,
may by very force of personality inspire
others, but there must be a corresponding
activity in the student or there will be no
beneficial effect.
That faith is a gift is frequently urged as
an excuse for not seeking to obtain it, and
some people seem to have taken it for
granted that, as they have not been especi-
ally endowed with faith from childhood, it is
useless to try to make any great effort in
that direction, and go on in their indiffer-
ence not realizing it is an essential part of
life itself. It is a beautiful thing to have
that sublime faith which reaches up to
heaven and to God and extends into
eternity.
Every good gift should be sought after,
even if one is not specially gifted by birth
or inheritance, and as faith is the first prin-
ciple essential to salvation, it is the duty of
every individual that has come to years of
accountability to seek for faith, by prayer,
and even by fasting if doubts arise.
Paul in his epistle to the Hebrews has
given a lesson upon faith which cannot
fail to impress those who read it with an
honest heart. The scriptures inspire faith
if one reads them with a desire to compre-
hend their true meaning; and certainly the
eleventh chapter of Hebrews has in every
verse a truth that is full of the very essence
of faith. Paul says, speaking of David, Sam-
uel and others of the prophets of old, “Who
through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped
the mouths of lions, out of weakness were
made strong.” How many weak ones in
our day have been made strong through
faith? Yea, thousands!
But we in this age, do not need particul-
arly to go back to the ancients for testi-
monies, for they are all around us, if we
would only open our eyes to see, and our
hearts to receive them. The very fact of
the Latter-day Saints enduring the perse-
cutions and privations that were heaped
upon them for years, and finally leaving
their homes and possessions, earned through
toil and hardship, and coming into a desert
land, is an evidence of implicit faith in
God and the Latter-day work, and the divin-
ity of the mission of Joseph Smith in this 

[Column 3]
dispensation, that ought to convince every
child of the Latter-days Saints, that God is
with this people, that His hand has been
over them, and that their remarkable faith
in Him has been their support in passing
through every trying ordeal; and certainly
it is apparent that by means of that faith
they have wrought wonders in this desert
land. The Bible tells us “Faith without
works is dead,” and believing this land
could be made to bear grain and fruits, and
that this people would be preserved from
famine and want, the pioneers and their
followers plowed and planted, implicitly be-
living the Lord would give the increase,
and though they were told corn and grain
could not be raised here, yet Brigham
Young and those associated with him, had
faith to believe that the people would be
preserved and Zion would be established;
and in fact their faith was almost perfect;
for the promises made to the Saints could
not fail, if they were obedient to the voice
of the Good Shepherd, and to the heavenly
vision.
Joseph the Prophet had told them of this
land in the West where the people might
find a resting place, and though the loca-
tion was not known, yet when Prestdent
Young looked upon this barren tract, the
Salt Lake valley, the spirit manifested to
him that this was the chosen spot where the
Lord designed his people to dwell.
Notwithstanding testimonies may and do
abound, yet it is necessary, for each person
to cultivate faith and strengthen his own
faith by works, and by keeping the com-
mandments of God. Disobedience destroys
faith in the soul but obedience and humil-
ity engender faith and promote its growth
in the human heart   Association, too, has
much to do with the strengthening or
weakening of one’s faiths. To keep the
company and listen to the murmurings,
complaints and doubtings of one whose
faith is weak, or who has no faith in God
or his promises, has a tendency to tear
down and destroy the faith of others espec-
ally in the young who are easily influenced
or susceptible to influences. The old say-
ing, written in our copy books long ago,
“Evil communications corrupt good man-
ners,” is true, and evil influences are cal-
culated to darken the minds of the young
and unsuspecting and lead them away
from the truth, and poison their minds
with the atmosphere that surrounds them,
perhaps imperceptibly, but just as surely as
would tangible evils the temporal body.
Joseph Smith the Prophet said, “The time
will come when evil influences will be more
dangerous and more to be dreaded than
contagious diseases;” and yet we as a peo-
ple do not heed the warning, for to all appear
ance that time is fast approaching it has
not already come. We shall need mighty
faith to help us to overcome, and whatever
can be done by inculcating the principles 
that will tend to strengthen and cultivate
faith should be sought for diligently by
every Latter-day Saint. It is said example 
is better than precept and there are those
who think that good examples will suffice
without much teaching, but we have found
the example of good parents is not always
sufficient, and teaching sometimes fails, but
try both and have faith and courage and
love and the three combined will be a
power for good that cannot fail to have a
good and lasting effect, if accompanied with
prayer and the performance every human
duty, and trust in God for He hath said,


“They that trust in Him shall be as Mount
Zion, which cannot be removed, but
abideth forever.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton who died
in New York City, October 26, 1902, was
one of the most extraordinary women the
nineteenth century has produced; and cer-
tainly one of the most original in thought
and expression.
	Mrs Stanton was born November 12,
1816, at Johnstown, N. Y., and was the
daughter of Judge Daniel Cady, a celebrated
jurist, her mother, Margaret Livingston, is
said to have been a woman of “unusual
vivacity.”
	Mrs. Stanton was beloved by all who had
the pleasure of coming in contact with her.
Her fine personality was perceptible to all
with whom she was in any way associated.
	When Mrs. Stanton was a young bride
she went with her husband to London.
He was a delegate from the Anti-slavery
Society in America; Lucretia Mott was one
of the rejected women delegates and Mrs.
Stanton’s sympathies were aroused and she
formed a lasting friendship for that famous
Quaker advocate of freedom and equal
rights. To a friend, who asked what most
interested her in all London, she answered,
“Lucretia Mott.” After that the subject
of equal rights was more or less in her
thoughts.
	She wrote the call for the first Woman’s
Rights Convention at Seneca Falls, New
York, 1848. Three years after Miss Susan
B. Anthony became acquainted with her
and they were ever afterwards devoted
friends; their lives and characters fitted
beautifully into each other. It was a
charming picture to see them together, two
very venerable women, and so unlike in
appearance and in many of the serious mat-
ters of life and in many of its phases Miss
Anthony’s devotion to Mrs. Stanton has
often recalled to the mind of the writer that
of Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister
Eliza R. Snow, only with this difference,
Miss Snow and Miss Anthony were like in
many respects, and Aunt Zina, as we loved
to call her, possessed in a great degree the
mother element that shone so conspicuously
in Mrs Stanton.
	Mrs Stanton was a famous housekeeper
and accomplished home maker; she had
seven children, five sons and two daughters.
It is said of her that she was so pretty in
her youth that she looked well in the
Bloomer costume which she, Lucy Stone
and Miss Anthony all were for a few years.
In her later life she was a magnificent
specimen of cultured womanhood.
	Age had not diminished her strength of
mind, her intellect was bright to the last;
though her body grew more feeble and
those around her could see a change was
coming. “The end came very peacefully,
she fell asleep and knew no waking.” She
was near her 87th birthday.
	Her six living children are Henry Gerrit
Smith, Theodore and Robert, Mrs. Margar-
et Stanton Lawrence and Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch. The funeral was held
October 29, at Mrs. Stanton’s home; only
the family, and a few intimate friends, who
were present by invitation. Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Mrs. Lillie Devereaux Blake,
and Mrs. Charlotte F. Wilbour were among
the number. Addresses were given by
Rev. Martin D. Conway of London, and

[Column 2]
Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell. She was
buried at Woodlawn cemetery. The cere-
mony at the grave included an address by
Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford.
	At some future time the writer hopes to
publish some personal reminiscences of
Mrs. Stanton from her own acquaintance
and correspondence with this brilliant,
attractive, magnificently gifted woman.


(Column 1)
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor
to President Bathsheba W. Smith in the
General Relief Society, started on Friday,
November 14, expecting to visit the Relief
Society in Denver, Pueblo, and in Arizona
and Mexico, returning home by way of
California and pay a visit to the Saints
and the Relief Society there. In company
with Sister Hyde is Sister Julia Brixen, of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Board, and these
two sisters are traveling with Elder J.
Golden Kimball, who is also doing mission-
ary work. They will probably be absent
about a month.
	In the October number of the paper we
mentioned the book we hope to bring out
during the holidays. We also said it would
be partly published by subscription as a
certain amount is necessary as a guarantee.
The price of one copy will be one dollar,
and all money received will be deposited in
the bank and receipts given and if the book
is not published the money will be returned
to the subscribers without fail.	Consider-
ing the many books of fiction bought by
our people it would be much better to en-
courage home talent and purchase those
written by our own brethren or sisters, con-
taining facts and good morals.	The title
will be “Aunt Em’s Stories of Long Ago.”
	The birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne
will be celebrated Thursday, November 20,
a part of the program will be an anniversary
gathering in Barratt Memorial Building at
2 p. m. There will be music, addresses and
appropriate exercises and she will thus be
given the opportunity of greeting her old
friends, and they will see and hear this re-
markable woman’s testimony of the Gospel
and of the divinity of the mission of the
Prophet, Joseph with whom she was ac
quainted.	Sister Horne was a member of
the Church in the early days and also a
pioneer of 1847, arriving in the valley early
in September.	Sister Horne has traveled
very extensively among the people in the
interest of the women’s organizations of the
Church, she also visited England, her na-
tive land and was one of the speakers at the
Columbian Exposition in the Art Palace in
Chicago and visited New York and other
large cities. She is deserving of great
honor from the women of the Church, and
the women of the world everywhere, for
what she has done for the uplifting of
womanhood.
	The Utah Society Daughters of the
Revolution met Nov. 15, 1902, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Caroline Y. Cannon, Cannon
Farm, and were handsomely entertained in
her elegant home.	It was the Thanks-
giving meeting and the paper was entitled,
“Origin of Thanksgiving, First Thanks-
giving in New England, Record of official
appointments of days of Thanksgiving in
Massachusetts Bayand Plymouth, Occasion-
al thanksgiving days appointed by the Dutch
Governors of New York in New Nether-

(Column 2)
lands, and by the English Governors of
New York, Thanksgiving a national day
during the Revolution. When recommended
by Congress, The New England Thanks-
giving.”	There were items of business,
minutes, letters, etc., and there was a fairly
good attendance of members and a few
invited guests.	Mrs. Willard T. Cannon
sang for the ladies which was a rare treat,
she has a very melodious voice and an ex-
pressive style, the song was “Ramona,” a 
comparatively new song, (at any rate new
to the writer) and one into which the sing-
er may put great feeling, making it very
soulful, as much so even as the old favorite
song, “Josephine.” Refreshments were
served afler the style of  New England
Thanksgiving—baked beans, pumpkin pie,
and all the dainties that make thanksgiving
real with the daintiest of china and snowy
linen, etc  The December meeting will be
a Boston Tea Party at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, 139 E. South
Temple. The paper will be given by Mrs.
Maria Y Dougall and is entitled “Remin-
scences of James Otis, John Adams, John
Hancock, Samuel Adams, Paul Revere,
Patrick Henry, Benjamin Franklin, Peyton
Randolph, Robert Morris, Thomas Jeffer-
son, Silas Deane, Alexander Hamilton,
James Madison and Thomas Paine.”
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held
its annual meeting Saturday, Nov.
1, 1902. The club was organized October
31, 1891, and generally holds its annual
meeting on that day(Hallowe’en) but as the
Federation was in session in Ogden, the
meeting was postponed to the first of
November. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, the
president was at Ogden representing the
club and attending the Federation. The
first on the program was the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. Alder, who gave an address up-
on Art in Paris, which was both instructive
and entertaining, there were two recitations,
one by Miss Fox and one by Miss Frankie
Young, some excellent music by Prof. C.
D. Schettler on the mandolin which was
very delightful; the young ladies also added
charm to the entertainment. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in behalf of the club made a telling
speech in presenting the retiring president
with a volume of Tennyson handsomely
bound and illustrated, given as an ex-
pression of appreciation for her year’s
work for the club and the friendship of the
ladies with whom, and for whom, she has
given time and talent. This was followed
by the election of officers for the ensuing
year and resulted as follows: President,
Elizabeth. S. Wilcox; Vice-presidents,
Annie T. Widtsoe and Emma Jensen;
Cor. Sec., Dr. R. B. Pratt; Rec. Sec.,
Estelle Neff; Treasurer, Rebecca E. Doolan.
The next meeting will be November 30,
8 o’clock p. m., WOMAN'S EXPONENT
office.


