[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: L. D. S LADIES DEPARTMENT. | Author: Unknown]

L. D. S LADIES DEPARTMENT.
	We publish in this issue two more pic-
tures of representative groups of lady
students of the Latter-day Saints’ Univer-
sity, of this city. Work for girls has a
prominent place in the curriculum of this
institution, and it cannot be said that
in any respect the provision made for dis-
tinctively ladies’ work is excelled by that
for men. The L. D. S. University now
provides a complete normal Kindergarten
for the training of Primary and Kindergar-
ten teachers. This course extends through
four years and is intended solely for lady
students. Another distinctive girls’ course
is that of domestic science, in which the
economics of the home and the theory and

[Column 2]
practice of good housekeeping occupy a
prominent place in the training given. The
nature and extent of this work may be
seen by the list of subjects that comprise
its special training, as follows: household
economics, drawing and designing, hy-
giene for women, home sanitation, house-
hold management, aesthetics, handstitch-
ing, dressmaking, lectures on cooking,
practice in cooking and science of nutrition.
Each of these is a separate subject, for
which separate teachers, rooms and appar-
atus are provided, and actual work given
according to the most approved meth-
ods.
	Culture is not excluded by the purely
practical, however, and the course includes
literature, science, art and one foreign

[Column 3]
language, French. It is a practical course
which has been laid out with great care, to
train the mind and the hand at the same
time, and we congratulate our girls upon hav-
ing such opportunities as are now being put
before them. There were about 500 girls
at this institution last year and the coming
season will no doubt show a still larger
attendance. Many of the girls that took
the courses in book-keeping and stenogra-
phy last year are now filling responsible
and lucrative positions in this city. But
the new courses above mentioned, which
are now offered for the first time, are of
such merit that we feel justified in calling
the attention of our young ladies to some
of the opportunities thus presented to
them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

