[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward is 
credited with the authorship of "The Con-
fessions of a Wife," the anonymous story 
now appearing in the Century Magazine. 
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, president 
of the National Council of Women, has 
gone abroad for the summer and possibly 
part of the winter. She expects to be 
present at the meeting of the International 
Council at Copenhagen. 
	Lady Henry Somerset expects to sail for 
New York on September 26. Unable to 
remain long in this country she has 
pledged herself to few engagements be-
yond the National Convention of the 
Woman's Christian Temperance Union at 
Portland, Me. She will visit Montreal, 
Washington and Boston, in each of which 
cities she will deliver an address. She 
will be accompanied by Miss Cameron,


Anna Grant  Rhoda Miller  Annie Hansen  Sybella Clayton  Ellen Peterson  Helen Whitney

	The students in this picture are representative, in a certain sense, of the girls in 
other Church schools throughout the several Stakes of Zion, and are devoted to the
highest educational work, that will fit and prepare them to take the places and positions 
in public life as educators, etc., or in private life as mothers, teachers of the young, 
housewives, and in fact fill all the requirements of full and complete womanhood. Much 
more is expected of the daughters of Zion than of the women outside in the world; and 
consequently the teachers as well as the parents have greater responsibility resting upon 
them. This matter is taken into consideration when selecting the teachers in these edu-
cational institutions. The young girls in these Church schools, colleges and universities, 
are, generally speaking, of that highly moral and religious type that is only found in com-
munities where righteousness prevails and the best principles are carefully taught and mu-
tual helpfulness maintained, and where the saying of our Savior is most carefully observed, 
viz., "To do unto others as we would have them do unto us."


[Column 1]
