[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: MRS. HORNE HOME. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. HORNE HOME. 
HAS RETURNED FROM CHICAGO AFTER A 
MONTH'S ABSENCE. 
Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just re-
turned from Chicago where she has been 
staying for a month past, the guest of Miss 
Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of 
drawing in the Chicago public schools.
Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there 
and brought home a variety of drawing for 
comparison with our local school work. 
She met a number of the leading teach-

[Column 2]
ers, educators and artists of that city and 
attended noted lectures at the University of
Chicago, and the Chicago institute of Art. 
Instructions were sent by the present 
officers of the Relief Society to Mrs. Horne 
to meet with the Relief Society members of 
the Chicago branch. President Asahel 
Woodruff accordingly called a meeting 
which convened on July 9, at the L. D. S. 
house of worship on Oakley Avenue. 
There was a good attendance. The fol-
lowing officers were set apart by President 
Woodruff: Caroline Dennison, president; 
Signature


Sarah Cress, Charlotte Estherbloom, coun-
selors; Josephine Turner, secretary; Mary
Post, treasurer. It was decided to hold a
meeting once a month on the regular fast
day, when a proper subject will be studied.
Then one meeting a week for sewing and
planning relief work is to be held at the
homes of the workers of the branch. Next
Wednesday the sisters will meet at the
home of the president.
	Mrs. Horne addressed the sisters on the
subject of the duties of the Relief Society
members and gave a short sketch of the
life and work of President Bathsheba W.
Smith, as it is and has been connected with
Relief Society work; also a sketch of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who has been General
Secretary for so many years. Mrs. Horne
told of the work being done by Mrs. Hyde,
Dusenberry and Williams, with the idea
of bringing the Relief members of the
Chicago branch more closely in touch with
the General officers here. The sisters of
the branch expressed themselves as being
interested in the relief work and are de-
sirous of knowing something of the plans
and assist in erecting the proposed woman's
building.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
