[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: A WOMAN MISSIONARY. | Author: Unknown]

A WOMAN MISSIONARY.

	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]

(Continued.)

	The king is a very friendly man, agree-
able in conversation. Is pleased with the
American Elders because of their industri-
ous habits. He prides himself in doing
more work than other native man. He is
subject in his official capacity to the French
Governor.
	Today heard the news of the Tahitian
lady’s marriage to the king’s son, much to
the father’s displeasure. She had previous-
ly made an engagement with the captain
whose ship is lying here, and had received
many presents from him; now she re-
nounced him and chose a younger man.
I wish all white men who make contracts
with those women may be treated in the
same manner.
	Today the Pilgrim sailed. Mr. Rich-
mond called to make his adieux, proposed
sending from Tahiti any thing we needed,
was certainly polite, he may be sincere,
although given to flattery more than I ad-


[Column 1]
mire. He is recognized as a tolorably cor-
rect man contrasted with the fearfully disso-
lute. He has been a faithful friend to
Paraita.
	After the forenoon services we were in-
vited to go on board the vessel and drink a
cup of chocolate. We had a long walk,
crossed several deep streams. The men
stripped their feet and carried the women
over. The sea was rough. We ran the
little boat on the reef, reached the vessel
with difficulty, which was rolling so much
Sister Crosby and myself began to be sea-
sick at once, so we could eat nothing. We
concluded it was great labor and little
pleasure.
	I have at length got a new cook house
and everything arranged in good order,
shall be more comfortable. Again have
sent off letters to the United States to in-
form our friends that we still live and
breathe outside of the habitable world; gaze
at the same sun and moon and some of the
constellations, but not all. The north star
we cannot see, the grand cross is in the
firmament over us. To the same God we
pray and invoke blessings on them.
	There is talk of a vessel being fitted up
to take passengers to California. The chil-
dren are elated at the bare idea, uncertain
as it may be. Mr. Grouard thinks his
wife will not go. The dread of sea sickness
would almost induce me to remain here.
	The 27th. Attended the morning ser-
vice in the House of Prayer. After the
close Hoatan, our fatherly chief, addressed
the people on the subject of changing the
Sabbath day, which has for a length of
time been kept one day earlier than in
other parts of the world, owing to the
reckoning of the missionaries in coming
around the Cape. The people appeared in-
different, would not express an opinion.
The old chief spoke with warmth. He
said, “When the dances were introduced
you were ready to speak and give your
sanction; when spirituous liquors were
brought here to make the people drunk
you are ready to welcome its reception; but
when the subject relating to the worship of
God is being agitated you are silent.”
	They, at length aroused, set to thinking
and voted to have it changed.
	This morning I was angry and showed
my resentment. I received an unjust re-
buke it was impossible for me to feel calm
over. I repaired to the ‘Fere Burera” and
translated a chapter in Tahiti, by which
time my mind became composed.
	The natives seem bent on keeping two
Sabbaths together. They say if they
throw away the Sabbath they have been
keeping some of them will be thrown away
by death, such is their superstition. By
degrees they will be persuaded. 
The 29th. We ate roast pig for break-
fast, sent us by our good old chief. This
afternoon have received a large eel, two
feet in length; they are very fine eating.
The sea abounds with luxuries, and the
land teems with good things,
	The 30th. This morning very early

[Column 2]
went out to the reef in a canoe. It was
calm and beautiful sailing. We raised a
small sail and a gentle breeze wafted us
along smoothly. The water was clear and
we could see distinctly the coral beneath,
which resembles a garden of pines and
shrubbery, beautiful to look upon. The
air was cool, and light clouds shielded us
from the sun’s scorching rays. We sailed
in and out among the coral to examine the
fishing nets. They are curiously woven
out of nets sunk to the bottom where the
water is shallow, the bait put inside. The
fish run through the small aperture and are
secured. Sometimes fish weighing twenty
pounds are taken. We could discover them
of all shapes and colors shooting about and
hiding in the cavities of the coral. We
stopped on an island of rocks, struck a fire
with wood we carried out, roasted fish and
made a hearty meal.

(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also childrenwho are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. -
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier' -
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. .


Mrs. Alice M. Ruble, who has just been
nominated on the Democratic ticket for the
Colorado House of Representatives, has
lived in that State for thirty years. During
that time, it is said, she has made a host of
warm friends by her gracious, kind and
womanly bearing. She has held many
positions of honor and trust. She is secre-
tary of the Jane Jefferson Democratic Club,
has been secretary of the social science
department of the women’s club of Den-
ver, and has served on the board of directors
of the State Industrial School for Girls.
The scene was animated when Mrs. Ruble
was chosen in the Democratic  Convention
of Arapahoe county, Denver, and showed
how far it is from being true that women
receive less consideration when they have
votes. Eleven representatives were to be
nominated. Gen. John Charles Thompson
made a speech advocating the nomination
of women for two of the places, and urging
especially the choice of Mrs. Ruble. Miss
Edith McAtee, president of one of the
Democratic women’s clubs, recommended
that no woman should be placed upon the
ticket. “You have given the ladies 50 per
cent of the appointive offices, and that
should be enough,” she said. But the
convention was of a different opinion. Mrs.
Ruble, Mrs. Mary J. Wygant, Mrs Imo-
gene Golden Clark and Mrs. Harriet G. R
Wright were all nominated by their friends,
and so were a large number of men. After
the nominating speeches were all made,
Gen. John W. Browning moved that a
woman should be chosen before they began
to ballot on the men. State Senator John
A. Rush and Congressman Shafroth spoke
in support of the motion, and it was carried
without a dissenting voice. The conven-
tion proceeded to ballot on the four ladies.
Mrs. Ruble had 339 votes, Mrs. Wygant
168, Mrs. Wright 107 and Mrs. Clarke 99.
Mrs. Ruble’s nomination was then made
unanimous. It is interesting to note that
two Generals took the leading part in urg-
ing the nomination of a woman. It has
often been observed that military men are


apt to look with especial scorn on the argu-
ment that women ought not to be allowed
to have a voice in public affairs because
they do not fight.


