[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: School Lunches Ethel Melville]
School Lunches Ethel Melville, University of Utah Foods Children Should Have and Lunch Basket Suggestions. If children are to be strong and healthy and do good work in school, they must be properly fed. Too many of them are eating unwholesome food at noon and thereby depriving their bodies of the nourishment necessary for energy and growth. Luncheon for school children, from the standpoint of health, is no more important than any other meal of the day, but it is more difficult to keep up to the standard of wholesomeness and cleanliness. Growing children have special needs in the way of food. Even when they always eat at home, it is no easy matter to see that they are properly fed, and when they eat the mid-day meal at school, the difficulty is far greater. This is not because wholesomeness and cleanliness are more important in this meal than in any other, but because they are harder to secure. In order that children may be strong and well, their food must first provide the materials for building and repairing the body; it must furnish energy or fuel for the work of the muscles; and it must serve to regulate the intricate chemical changes on which health and growth depend. Vegetables and fruits are particularly valuable as sources of the necessary mineral matters and vitamines, the lack of which may lead to under-development and to such diseases as rickets and scurvy. Many vegetables and fruits also tend to prevent constipation. Cereals may be depended upon for a large part of the fuel that every active child needs. Sugar also has a useful, place in the child's diet as a fuel and as a flavoring. For a child eight to ten years old an allowance of two ounces (four level tablespoon fulls) of sugar a day to be used in cooking or eaten in other ways is not too much. The point to remember about sugar and sweets in a child's diet is that they should be served chiefly at the end of the meal. If eaten between meals or at the beginning of a meal they take away the appetite for more important foods. Milk is regarded as a necessity in the diet of every normal child, because it supplies, in an easily digestible form, the necessary tissue-building material, and is a good combination of vitamines, lime, and protein. A quart of milk a day, served partly as a beverage and partly in other ways, is not too much for a child. Wherever possible the child should be permitted to carry
