[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 02k | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature

(Third Week in March)

This lesson is in a sense a review, however, some new material is used.

Whatever the Puritans believed or did not believe; whatever virtues they practiced or failed to practice, one thing is very sure, they believed in the immortality of the soul. Lord Macaulay tells us, in substance, that the Puritan was enabled to make great sacrifices and endure untold hardships because of the vision he had of the hereafter and the glory that awaited him. Benjamin Franklin intimates that the Puritans had a tendency to be impractical; that they were inclined to neglect the here and now for the hereafter. These statements are proof of the fact that they had very unusual interest, as we see it from our present day point of view, in the life after death. We shall devote this lesson to evidences of that faith. Both Longfellow and Whittier reflect the thought of the early New England people in their attitude towards the hereafter.

We have referred elsewhere to Longfellow's poem, Footsteps of Angels. The referenc in th fourth stanza of the poem is to the poet's friend and brother-in-law, George W. Pierce, of whom he said long after: "I have never ceased to feel that in his death, something was taken from my own life which could never be restored." In the sixth stanza, he speaks of his young wife. The Village Blacksmith contains the same message, for when he hears his daughter's voice singing in the village choir "it sounds to him like her mother's voice singing in Paradise."

The Old Clock on the Stairs emphasizes the same idea. In thinking how all who have lived in the old home are scattered and htat some are fled, that "some are married, some are dead," the old clock is interpreted as saying, that they will never meet here again; that they will never be separated in the world to come. These are the words of the poem:

"Never here, forever there,
Where all parting, pain, and care,
And death, and time, shall disappear,—
Forever there, but never here!
The horologe of Eternity
Sayeth this incessantly,—
'Forever—never!
Never—forever!'"

The Psalm of Life was written at a time when Longfellow said he was unwilling to show his manuscript to anyone, it being a voice from his inmost heart at a time when he was rallying from depression. In this poem he anounces in concise and very forceful words that:

"Life is real! life is earnest!
And the grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul."

Whittier, in Snowbound, expresses himself upon this matter in the following lines:

"Ah, brother! only I and thou
Are left of all the circle now,—
The dear home faces whereupon
That fitful firelight paled and shone.
Henceforward, listen as we will,
The voices of that hearth are still;
Look where we may, the wide earth o'er
Those lighted faces smile no more.
We tread the paths their feet have worn,
We sit beneath their orchard-trees,
We hear, like them the hum of bees
And rustle of the bladed corn;
We turn the pages that they read,
Their written words we linger o'er
But in the sun they cast no shade,
No voice is heard, no sign is made,
No step is on the conscious floor!
Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust,

(Since He who knows our need is just,)
That somehow, somewhere, meet we must.
Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress-trees!
Who, hopeless, lays his dead away,
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play!
Who hath not learned, in hours of faith,
The truth to flesh and sense unknown,
That Life is ever Lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own!

Two cross-palms with the Japan lilies, Whittier loved so well, encircled by a broad white satin ribbon, were sent from Mrs. Daniel Lathrop at the time of Whittier's death. Upon the ends of the ribbon was delicately printed these lines from Andrew Rykman's Prayer:

"Some sweet morning yet in God's
Dim aeonian periods,
Joyful I shall wake to see
Those I love who rest in Thee,
And to them in Thee allied
Shall my soul be satisfied."

Another exquisite floral offering came with these lines:

"I know not where his islands lift
Their fronded palms in air;
I only know I cannot drift
Beyond His love and care."

Andrew Rykman's Prayer is said to have been a favorite of President McKinley's and at his request a large part was read at his funeral service. The lines quoted from both Longfellow and Whittier recall the last stanza of Wm. Clayton's justly famous Hymn, Come, Come, Ye Saints.

Discussion:

1. Read the last stanza of Come, Come, Ye Saints to the class and point out the lines that treat of the immortality of the soul.

2. Read Tennyson's Queen of the May and see if you can discover in that poem lines that give promise of the immortality of the soul.

3. Have someone bring Wordsworth's well known poem, We are Seven to the class and read it and show that the little girl had faith in the life after death.