[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: NELLIE BECRAFT,]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Jensen, June 6, 1907. President
Sarah M. Colton presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and reading of min-
utes.
	Opening address by Sister Sarah M.
Colton, she also reported the stake as im-
proving. Reports were given from all the
wards except Mt. Dell, all are in good
condition.
	Song from Glines Relief Society by
Miss Effie Johnson and company. Essay
from Mt. Dell Relief Society written by
Mrs. Mary J. Searle and read by the
secretary Mrs. Phebe A. Merkley. Re-
citation from Jensen Relief Society by
Miss Leah Timothy.
	Bishop George Billings of Jensen spoke
of the organization of the Relief Society
and the work of the sisters, he felt to wel-
come all that had gathered together.
	Mrs. Harriett Goodrich gave a report
of the General Conference held in Salt
Lake City also of the General Relief So-
ciety Conference.
	Singing and benediction by C. F. B.
Sybert.
	Afternoon session: We continued our
services by the choir singing, and prayer
by Bro. Edward Longhurst. Singing and
other opening exercises. General and
local officers of the Relief Society were
sustained.
	A lecture on Faith from the Vernal Re-
lief Society by Mrs. Mary Gibson. An
Essay from Naples Relief Society entitled
"Influence of Woman" by Mrs. Rhoda
Goodrich. Sister Goodrich also spoke at
some length on a great many subjects.
	A song from Maeser Relief Society by
Clara C. Hacking and others.
	Mrs. Richardson related some of her
experience in the mission field in Scotland
which was very interesting.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett bore a strong
testimony, also gave some counsel in re-
gard to the plan gotten up for the Relief
Society work and of the duties of the
teachers, spoke of gathering grain for
storage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Colton spoke of the good
the Relief Society had done in regard
to making means for the Uintah Stake
Tabernacle, she thanked the people of
Jensen for their hospitality.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation."
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bro. Joel Bascom.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
						Secretary.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Weber Stake of Zion
was held in the Relief Society Hall, in
Ogden, June 13, 1907, at 10 a. m. and 1:30
p. m., President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff and
representatives from nearly all of the 26
wards were in attendance. Of the breth-

[Column 2]
ren, there were Elder Franklin S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, Weber Stake
President Lewis W. Shurtliff, Patriarch
David McKay, and Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie.
	Despite the stormy day, the hall was
nearly filled with attentive listeners and
an excellent spirit was manifest through-
out the entire conference. The hall has
been newly papered and presents a rest-
ful, neat and tasteful appearance that is
well in harmony with the hallowed influ-
ence that abides within its walls.
	President Jane S. Richards and Coun-
selor Emily M. Shurtliff each spoke words
of encouragement and advice to those
present, urging all to a faithful discharge
of their duties.
	The reports showed the society in all
the wards in good working order, though
but few have been successful in gathering
the young mothers into this grand organ-
ization. However their numbers are in-
creasing as evidenced by their presence
at the conference.
	The brethren came freighted with bless-
ings for the Relief Society workers; their
counsels were wise and fatherly and their
words of appreciation and commendation
will be a stimulus to all who were in at-
tendance. 
	Elder Franklin S. Richards spoke on
the importance of Relief Society work
and of the crowns awaiting those who
lives are spent in service for others. No
matter how small the act of kindness; no
matter how lowly our position, we are
greater than queens and our reward is
sure. Spoke of the marvelous work of
of the boy prophet—the revelations and
the grand code of laws he brought forth,
—of his magnetic power which even the
world had to acknowledge; of his success-
ors, not like Joseph, but each the right
man in the right place and at the ap-
pointed time to fulfil their special part in
this gigantic work. Referred to our beau-
tiful building and the spiritual influence
that broods within its walls, and prayed
that the same might ever abide within
us; that the Lord would pour out the
balm of His spirit upon all, even as they
had poured it upon others; that no mis-
fortune might ever come without its ac-
companying balm and blessing and that
we might all meet in the eternal worlds,
there to dwell forever.
	Stake President Lewis W. Shurtliff re-
ferred to the shortness of life and the pass-
ing away of many of our valiant ones,
and the need of the younger ones taking
hold of the work, of whom we have an
army of noble sons and daughters. It is
not so much a question of how long we
live, as of how much we accomplish.
	Patriarch David McKay spoke more
especially to the widows, giving words of
comfort and cheer and showing that their
loved ones were near and ready to aid in
time of need; also touched on work for
our dead.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie commended
the sisters for their good works; also re-
ferred to the shortness of time and the
rapidity with which this work is being ac-
complished.
	Altogether a most enjoyable time was
had, even "a time of refreshing from the
Lord."
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
				Assistant Secretary.

[Column 3]
