[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference of Relief Society]

General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. On Wednesday and Thursday, October 6 and 7, the semiannual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City. The sessions on Wednesday, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., were held in the Assembly room of the Bishop's building, and were devoted to stake officers meetings;  while on Thursday, at the same hours, general sessions were held in the Salt Lake Assembly hall. On Wednesday noon, a cafeteria Itincheon was served to the delegates in attendance, and on Thursday evening a reception was held for stake officers at the Relief Society headquarters in the Bishop's building. In the receiving line at the reception were the general board members, who greeted the guests warmly and cordially. The board was assisted by the following Relief Society stake presidents: Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Granite stake;  Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, Pioneer stake;  Mrs. Elsie B. Alder, Ensign stake;  Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Salt Lake stake;  Mrs. Lottie P. Baxter, Liberty stake;  Mrs. Amanda Bagley, Cottonwood stake, and Mrs. Hilda H. Larsen, Jordan stake. The Farley Trio furnished music during the receiving hours. Later, a musicale was given under the supervision of Miss Romania Hyde, with the following program: Soprano solo, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward;  violin solo. Miss Hyde, and cello solo by Lois Cannon, accompanied by Miss Wright. The music for the various sessions was in charge of the Relief Society chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. wh« was assisted by Miss Edna Coray, organist. Special features were,: a violin solo by Professor Willard Weihe, accompanied by Professor John J. McClelland;  trio from "The Vision," by Mesdames Agnes Olsen Thomas, Sarah Wood, and Jennie Pedersen;  selection, "Life's Mirror," composed by Miss Edna Coray, and sung by a chorus of selected voices. The Relict Society choir gave special numbers in beautiful voice, which were well received. The organ music by Miss Coray at the opening and closing of the meetings, was especially artistic and much appreciated. The attendance was as follows: General board members, 21;  stake presidents, 54;  counselors, 63;  secretaries, 24;  treasurers, 14;  choristers, 12;  organists, 4;  class supervisors, 10;  stake board members, 185;  visitors, 23;  total, 410. This report GENERAL CONFERENCE 701 includes four mission presidents, representative of four missions, as follows: California mission, President Louisa W. Jones. Central States mission, President Charlotte T. Bennion;  Northern States mission, President Emily W. Smith, Western States mission, Pre