[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions]
GUIDE LESSONS 735 b. Climate, rainfall, etc. B. Type of people. a. Were they religious? b. Some of their moral teachings. c. Were they believers in education? Why? C. Influences that held the people together, or united them in one common bond. Why did they work together? a. What is co-operation? D. How the people first tilled the land. a. Irrigation. b. Small or large farms? c. What did the people raise in early days? d. Principal farm products of country today? E. What kind of homes did tlje people build? Rock, adobe, frame or logs? etc. 11. F. In studying the history of a town, find out what you can about the first schools and who the first teachers were. For example, Salt Lake City, the first school was opened in October, 1847, in an old military tent, shaped like an Indian wigwam. The first teacher was Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond, and the old Lindley readers were used as texts. The Bible was also read and passages of scripture given to the children to learn. During that first year, the children had only slates and pencils. In some communities, the children were taught to write on the dried bark of the mountain birch. What else did the people do to encourage education? In some communities, a stage was built in the boweries in summer and in the meeting and school house in the winter, and the drama was encouraged. Many plays were given in those early days by local talent. The first theatre in Salt Lake City was opened in 1851, when the Social Hall was built. It was the first theatre west of the Missouri river. The Salt Lake Theatre was built in 1862. In many communities, the first teachers were the members of the Relief Societies. IIL G. How did the people treat the Indians? Were the Indians friendly? How did the Indians live? Did they have any traditions which they taught the whites? Here is the tradition concerning the origin of the Sego Lily. It will help you to obtain others: Many, manj' suns ago, the Indians lived in great numbers in these valleys of the mountains. They grew corn and berries in abundance, but they vied with each other to see who could gather the most food for their winter living when snows were deep and days were cold. 
 Then they warred, and the tomahawk took the place of the game stick, and many Indians were killed. The Great Spirit was displeased, and sent a heat over the land, and the corn and berries dried up. The children were left without food, the sky became dark with great clouds for many moons, the earth refused to yield, and the sands blew over the land. The Indians sorrowed and prayer to the Spirit. One day the sun shone brightly, and up on the hills, the people saw a little plant, growing everywhere, even into the canyons, and far above to the very peaks. The Great Spirit had heard the prayers of the people and when the Indians tasted the root, they knew that the Spirit had saved them from death. So ever after, they never fought where the lily-bulb grew, and they called it the little "lifeplant" of the hills. Were there any Indian wars in your community? Tell about them. Where are the Indians of your old community gone today? IV. H. Early day manufacturing in the community. a. Domestic manufacturing. b. Building of factories. c. Furniture and dress of early days. V. I. Government of the community in early days. a. Early town government. b. Early city government. c. What kind of laws did the people have? What were some of them? VI. G. Early day amusements. QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW. 1. Where is your town or city located? Why was it built there? 2. Who were the principal families of the first colony? What kind of people were they? Did they have high ideals of religion and morals? 3. Why is it necessary to understand the history of a people if you are going to study their present-day social customs? 4. Give the history of the first school. Who was the first teacher? His r her life. What kind of books did they use in early days? 5. Did the people build a meeting house? A school h«use? A theatre? 6. What Indians lived near? Did they cause trouble for the colonists? How did the colonists treat the Indians? 7. What is domestic manufacture? What did the peo- (Contlnued on Page 745.) rHAPTTY NEVER FAILETH The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. VOLUME VII. its "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon so firmly surrou nded by the bulwar ks noble mission enduring truth of worthy and capable endeavor and may be successful and glorious." that its career F. SMITH. JOSEPH Published by the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Room 20 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah r MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES, Edito MRS. JANETTE A. HYDE, Manager tant Manager MRS. AMY. BROWN LYMAN, Assis 1920 The General Board Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells - - - - - - -- President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams - First Counselor Mrs. Julia L. Smith ------- Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman - General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates ------ Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey - - ------ Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janet A. Hyde Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilco.x.Miss Sarah Eddlngton Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Phoebe T. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager ------- Amy Brown Lyman INDEX MISCELLANEOUS PROSE. Message to Mothers, A 141 Moment of Peace, A 15 Amusements in Pioneer Days„.... 492 Mormon Battalion Monument, Attention, Friends 32 The _ 96 Blind Authority 401 My Hero and Heroine _ 147 Class in Charities and Relief Myth of the Manuscript Fund — 424 Work „ 437 Dedication of the HaAvaiian New Book of Children's Stories 143 New General Board Member, Temple - 79 Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon _.... 97 Dee Hospital — 35 Opening the Gate Beautiful to Dee Hospital — Nurse Work __ 185 Women.._ „ _ _ _. 189 Doomsday Book, The _ 507 Paradise of Girlhood _ 209 Dream, A 203 Rays of Science in The Home, Entertainment for November 644 The ™ 192 Evolution of the Post..- - _ 623 Regarding Salvation For the Excuses _ » _ _ 516 Dead „ _ „ 199 Financial Diagnosis _ 14 Relief Society Organizations Five General Presidents of the Among New Converts to the Relief Society, The 127 Church „. 587 Funeral Services of Edna May Relief Society Song Book 25 Davis _. ~ — 3 Romance of a Missionary „ „.... 20 Funeral Services of Mrs. May Sacred Vestments of Ancient Wright Sewell _ 499 People 502 General Conference of Relief Secret Doors to Childhood, The 33 Society ™ __...„ 313 Sentiment. A „ _ _ „ 191 Education as a Fundamental Suffrage Won by the Mothers Element in Normal Life 335 of the United States „ 251 Employment: A Fundamental Summary of Woman's Position Element in Normal Life 338 in Newly-Enfranchised CounGeneral Officers Meeting tries 530 (Morning Session) „ 314 Testimony, A 449 General Officers Meeting Testimony of President Emme- (Afternoon Sassion) 325 line B. Wells _ _ „ 561 General Session (Saturday Traditions and Customs of the Morning) 331 Navajo Indiabs _ 390 General. Session (Saturday [Jniversity of Utah Enlarges Its Afternoon) ._ 346 Scope of Usefulness, The._ 588 Health _ _ 332 Tnknown Heroine _ 463 Recreation: A Fundamental What Do We Know of The Element in Normal Life 341 Other Side - 65 Report of the N. A. W. S. A. Held in Chicago _ 
 Spirituality as a Fundamental Element in Normal Life 345 Am I My Husband's Keeper 455 Being Nobody 26 Glimpses from Life's Movies 217 Gospel of Beauty, The _.... 202 Better Hubby Contest, The 628 Guide Lesson Suggestions for Beyond Asareth July - „ „ „_ 369 21. 93, 148, 204, 277, 362, 394 Great Experience, The „ 672 Blue Peaks of the Soul _ -_ 212 Hydrotheraphy.._ 398 Child's Right to Happiness, A 370 L. D. S. Relief Society for Class Coming of the Sixth. The 461 Training Nurses' Aids 375 Daughter to Love, A 404 
 Domestic Drama, A „.565, 634 Trust „ 143 Her Luck,_ „ 511 Victory Dance, A _ _ 459 Lost Sheep Returned, The 519 Voice Of The Unborn _ 510 Treating the Rumor Germ 193 What of Thy Victory, O Vacation and a Ragbag „.... 440 Woman? _„ _ 559 White Begonia, The „ 138 Wild Sun-Flowers » „„. 140 Will and The Way, The 90 Ye Mothers of Men 
 OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. Music, Page, The 586 Astor, Lady in the British House Tribute, A _. 183 of Commons - 38 Voices From the Dead 246 Avery, Rachel Foster, Passes Away _
