[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions]
Guide  Lesson  Suggestions 
LESSON  I. 
THEOLOGY  AND  TESTIMONY. 
(First  Week  in  January.) 
SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  DEAD. 
(Revelation.) 
The  theological  lesson  will  take  up  a  study  in  comparative 
religion. 
The  founders  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  came  out  from  various  protestant  religions.  They 
were  somewhat  famihar,  therefore,  with  the  beliefs,  forms, 
and  creeds  of  the  churches  of  the  world  from  which  they 
came.  Comparatively  few  present-day  members  of  our  Church 
are  acquainted  with  the  faith  and  creeds  of  other  religions. 
Strangers  who  imagine  that  plural  marriage  is  the  only 
difference  between  the  doctrines  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  those  of  other  sects,  know  very  little  about  "Mormonism," 
so-called,  and  it  is  feared  that  some  of  our  people,  born  and 
brought  up  in  the  Church,  know  less  about  the  differences 
between  our  faith  and  the  fathers  of  other  sects  than  does  the 
Christian  world  at  large. 
It  is  well  to  begin  these  lessons  with  the  assertion  that 
the  principles  advanced  in  the  lessons  and  taught  by  the 
prophet  Joseph  Smith,  has  since  his  time  entered  into  the 
very  life  and  religion  of  all  Christian  sects.  Germs  of  these 
truths  exist  and  have  existed  in  every  religion.  Christian, 
Jewish  and  Pagan.  It  was  the  fulness  of  the  truth  which 
was  lost  in  the  great  apostacy.  When  the  full  light  of  truth 
was  revealed  to  the  world,  men  at  first  rejected  and  spurned 
that  light,  but  the  very  fact  that  it  had  come  into  the  world 
permeated  their  worn  creeds  and  gradually  influenced  the 
minds  of  people  and  ministers  alike.  For  that  reason  we  ask 
our  students  to  consider  and  consult  present-day  ministers 
of  the  gospel  and  present  their  modern  ideas  on  these  subjects 
as  well  as  those  ancient  creeds  which  have  and  do  still  remain 
the  bulwark  of  all  the  churches.  We  shall  later  present  the 
foundation  creed  of  all  modern  religions  which  is  found  in  the 
thirty-nine  articles  of  faith,  accepted  by  Catholics,  modified 
by  the  Reformers,  but  which  is  still  the  accepted  standard 
of  faith  of  all  modern  sects  and  creeds.  Then  the  student 
may  discover  wherein  "Mormonism"  differs  from  these  long 
established  sects.

728  RELIEF     SOCIETY     MAGAZINE 
To  discover  a  truth  through  the  j^rocess  of  mental  study, 
through  association  of  ideas,  or  through  a  flash  of  sudden 
thought,  is  what  we  term  inspiration.  Revelation,  pure  and 
simple,  is  truth  divinely-  and  directly  communicated  to  man. 
With  the  startling  revelation  which  the  prophet  received 
in  the  grove  of  Palmyra  one  hundred  years  ago,  came  several 
new  divinely  revealed  truths,  or  we  might  sav,  correct  angles 
on  old  truths.  The  first  revelation  was  the  fact  that  revela- 
tion had  not  ceased.  All  of  the  sects  of  the  day  without 
exception,  Jewish  and  Christian,  maintained  that  the  canon  of 
scripture  was  full  and  that  the  Bible  was  the  sole  guide  left 
to  men  upon  the  earth.  It  was  understood,  of  course,  that 
this  might  always  be  supplemented  by  inspirational  thought. 
But  men,  both  ministers  and  laymen,  quoted  the  last  four 
verses  of  the  "Book  of  Revelation"  to  substantiate  this  posi- 
tion :  "If  any  man  shall  add  unto  these  things,  God  shall  add 
unto  him  the  plagues  that  are  written  in  this  book."  The 
following  is  taken  from  : 
The  Westminster  Confession  of  Faith,  A.  D.  1647.  Found  in  the 
book,  "Creeds  of  Christendom,"  and  accepted  by  all  orthodox  churches 
today,  written  by  Schaff,  vol.  III. 
1.  Although  the  light  of  nature,  and  the  works  of  creation  and 
providence,  do  so  far  manifest  the  goodness,  wisdom,  and  power  of 
God,  as  to  leave  men  inexcusable;  yet  are  they  not  sufficient  to  give 
that  knowledge  of  God,  and  of  his  will,  which  is  necessary  unto 
salvation;  therefore  it  pleased  the  Lord,  at  sundry  times,  and  in 
divers  manners,  to  reveal  himself,  and  to  declare  his  will  unto  his 
church;  and  afterwards,  for  the  better  preserving  and  propagating 
of  the  truth,  and  for  the  more  sure  establishment  and  comfort  of 
the  church  against  the  corruption  of  the  flesh,  and  the  malice  of 
Satan  and  of  the  world,  to  commit  the  same  wholly  unto  writing; 
which  maketh  the  holy  scripture  to  be  most  necessary;  those  former 
ways  of  God's  revealing  his  will  unto  his  people  being  now  ceased. 
IV.-  The  authority  of  the  holy  scripture,  for  which  it  ought  to  be 
believed  and  obeyed,  dependeth  not  upon  the  testimony  of  any  man  or 
church,  but  wholly  upon  God  (who  is  truth  itself),  the  author  thereof; 
and  therefore  it  Is  to  be  received,  because  it  is  the  word  of  God." 
We  present  here  the  modernized  article  on  revelation 
from  the  "Westminster  Confession  of  Faith,"  arranged  by 
Henry  Van  Dyke,  Moderator.  General  Assembly,  1902. 
Article  II.  of  Revelation. 
"We  believe  that  God  is  revealed  in  nature,  in  history,  and  in 
the  heart  of  man;  that  he  has  made  gracious  and  clearer  revelations 
of  himself  to  men  of  God  who  spoke  as  they  were  moved  by  the 
Holy  Spirit;  and  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Word  made  Flesh,  is  the 
brightness  of  the  Father's  glory  and  the  express  image  of  his  person. 
We  gratefully  receive  the  Holy  Scriptures,  given  by  inspiration,  to  be 
the  faithful  record  of  God's  gracious  revelations  and  the  sure  witness 
to  Christ,  as  the  Word  of  God,  the  only  infallible  rule  of  faith  and 
life."
