[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: Relief Society Conference | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The April Conference of the General Re-
lief Society which occupied two days, April
2nd and 3rd, was quite an event in the his-
tory of this grand organization. It is the
first time that two days sessions have been
held, and there was the largest attendance
on record.
	The Conference was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, opening Thursday morning,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m. President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, Musical Director; Miss Edna H.
Coray, Accompanist.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer was of-
fered by Sister Susan Grant, continued by
singing, “How firm a foundation ye Saints
of the Lord.” Roll call, by the Secretary,
Sister E. B. Wells; general officers, 4;
board of directors, 7; 30 stakes out of 56
answered to roll call.
	President B. S. Smith was very glad to
see so many dear sisters, she would like to
shake hands with each one, and she desired
to bless all present, and that they might be
able to carry out the instructions given
by the Prophet Joseph when he organized
the society, prayed that all might have wis-
dom and strength, and when we meet the
Prophet (if we are permitted) that he will
be well pleased, she believed he would be,
for she knew we had done well and felt we
would continue in so doing.


[Column 1]
	President Annie S. Musser of Liberty
Stake responded to the greeting of the Gen-
eral President, she was indeed gratified that
we had Sister Smith with us, and hoped
she might live to meet with us as long as
she desired, her name was a household word
among all the Saints. “We know she has
been honored of the Lord, a noble daughter,
a true wife and a glorious mother, and we
bow to her almost in adoration, for she
stands at the head of the grandest charitable
organization in the world. We are blest of
the Lord and because our work is so unself-
ish. We have been called, we have been
chosen, to represent our Heavenly Father
here on earth in connection with the Priest-
hood, and I ask our Father in heaven to
bless all the workers. May our motto ever
be, “Faith, Hope and Charity,” and I ask
it in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Contralto solo, Miss Mabel Cooper.
	Stakes were called to report first: presi-
dent, E. L. S. Udall, St. John; President
Bathsheba B. Grundy, Wayne; President
Louisa B. Benson, Oneida; President Mar-
garet A. Romney, Ensign; President Min-
erva E. R. Knowlton, Davis.
	Supt. Emma A. Empey of Relief Society
nurses, made a plea for more young women
to be sent this year, to take the nurse course,
and dwelt briefly upon the great need of
more nurses and the benefits to the young
women themselves as well as good to others.
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie also spoke upon the
same subject making an earnest appeal to
the presidents and others to interest the
young women in the study of nursing.
	“Angel’s Serenade,” Miss Lottie Brain.
	More Relief Society, stakes were called.
President Matilda Flamm reported Fremont,
President Susanna P. Booth, Box Elder.
	Morning session closed by singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Benediction by Sister
Rhoda A. Lyman.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints,” prayer
was offered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing led by the musical director, Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward, “Daughters of
Zion rejoice evermore,’’ composed expressly
for this Relief Society Conference by Sister
Annie Wells Cannon, and before singing the
song was read to the congregation by Sister
Alice Merrill Horne, the singing was accom-
panied by Prof. W. C. Clive and his son,
Master Clifford Clive, and the hymn was
very beautifully rendered.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde made the
opening address of the afternoon, she re-
ferred to the reports made in the morning,
commended the sisters for their earnest,
faithful and diligent labors, knew they had
depended upon the Lord, felt the good done
was invaluable, and spoke of the beautiful
hymn just sung, written by Sister Cannon,
that it just carried the spirit of the work;
she felt there was a very decided growth in
the Society the past year, more granaries
built, better attendance at meetings, beauti-
ful outlines prepared for Mother’s work,
giving better results, hoped the work now
would reach more of the young mothers;
dwelt upon this line of work and of young
women gaining knowledge, referred particu-
larly to preparation for motherhood, and
also to the greater opportunities nowadays;
spoke of establishing libraries and mentioned
the great responsibilities resting upon moth-
ers in training their children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, exhorted tha mothers to
question themselves and see if they had done
their full duty, felt the opportunity given to

[Column 2]
us as women was more blessed than any-
thing in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, one of the
general officers of the Society, made a tell-
ing and forcible address. She had left the
meeting this morning to pay her last respects
to one of our dear young mothers, who had
been called into the world beyond, and had
there heard many of the beautiful things
that our Elders can say about motherhood.
“How great is the wonderful mission of
mothers, we are blest beyond all women
and therefore should be the best mothers in
the world;” referred to the differences in
children, how easily some are led and how
difficut it is to guide others, urged faith and
prayer, thought the adversary was busier
than ever before. Spoke of the many
amusements that take the young people
from the home, and how watchful mothers
must be, to preserve the purity of the youth
of Zion; alluded to the young, innocent girls
coming from the country meeting with
strangers and in an idle moment perhaps
falling into danger, spoke feelingly of the
difficulties that have to be met, and stated
concerning a special committee that had
been appointed by authority, to look after
these matters and of the magnitude of the
work. Sister Williams gave excellent advice
that should be followed; thought that every
young woman coming to the city should put
herself in communication with the Bishop
of the ward where she expects to reside; re-
lated some facts that had come to her knowl
edge that proved that we sisters should all
be missionaries in helping our young girls
to protect themselves, prayed that all might
heed the warning she had given and added,
“May our Heavenly Father bless us with
wisdom and intelligence and help us to live
up to the Golden Rule, “To do unto others
as we would have them do unto us.”
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox thought the
care of the children had been beautifully
touched upon this afternoon but that little
had been said of their physical care; “no wo-
man who marries and becomes a mother
but should know how to nurse, many moth-
ers know little about caring for health, every
human being is a bundle of tendencies,
which shows us the need of knowledge;
some mothers are natural nurses, but
every mother should know a little of
hygiene and physiology, more children in
their infancy and early childhood are in-
jured by being over-fed than in not having
sufficient food, and disease is often fostered
by uncleanliness. We should not forget that
disease is a poison, mothers should reach
out their influence in the neighborhood and
help physically as well as other ways
spiritually and mentally. “I do believe
that through the care of wise parents chil-
dren may be saved. We ought to have
power to prevent so much sickness among
children.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said that the be-
ginning of her Relief Society work was when
a little girl she went to the meetings with
her mother to take care of the sisters’ chil-
dren while they quilted and sewed, and her
idea was if we would teach our children that
their real pleasure was in helping others,
perhaps we could overcome this excessive
pleasure seeking. If we have the Spirit of
the Lord it will be a guide to us.
	Sister Alice M. Horne referred to the good
things she had heard today, and felt after
all that she might be a better mother than
she had been before. Referred to her visit
in Arizona and a conversation with a physi-
cian she met there, and the question arose,

[Column 3]
“Why do so many young mothers die?”
The physician stated his experience in this
matter had led him to believe it was due to
excessive dancing; girls work all day and
dance at night in over-heated, or badly
ventilated rooms, and they attended parties
when they are not in a proper condition of
health; Sister Home maintained girls should
be taught to stand well, these things can be
taught in early youth, believed in the edu-
cation that began in the home, take proper
care of ourselves, in every way, our health
is almost the first consideration, spoke of
beautiful and attractive homes.
	Prof. W. C. Clive played a very beautiful
violin solo accompanied on the piano by
Master Clifford Clyde. 
	Congregation sang, “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Sister
E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WEL, Secretary.
Close of first day’s Conference.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


