Guide Lesson Suggestions LESSON I. TESTIMONY AND GENEALOGY First Week in December. PIONEER TEMPLE BUILDING IN UTAH. President Brigham Young was deeply interested in every phase of temple building and temple work, as was his leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith. His first thought on entering the Utah wilderness was about rearing a temple to Jehovah's name. We have every evidence of that fact. His remarks, as found in this lesson, will indicate his ideas upon this subject. President Young said, April 8, 1852, at the general conference, this before any temple was built in Utah: Is it not necessary that we should have a temple? Now, brethren, if you can believe it, I will reveal the truth to you. It is absolutely necessary that this people should build a temple to the most high God. "What for?" it may be inquired. "To worship the Lord in?" No! Absolutely this is the fact. "Have we not heretofore built temples, and commenced others?" "And when these were built, were they not built for the assembly of the people, and for the public worship of God?" Yes, but this was by permission, that is all. A temple that is built for the priests of the most high, is built to be occupied by the priesthood, by those who have the oracles of that priesthood. But it may be inquired — "Are they not built to assemble the congregation in to confess their faults, and to exhort each other, and partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper, etc.?" That is not the design of a temple, though it may be done in it. The tabernacle is for the congregation, and the temple is for the priests of the most high to enter in, and be as pillars, and there administer in the name of Israel's God, and for the salvation of the living and the dead;  that is what temples are for. For instance, let me ask the question here of the elders of Israel — are we now in circumstances to go forth and redeem our fathers, and our forefathers — to act in their behalf? Now the congregation are lost at this very reflection, they don't know anything about it;  but if I reveal the facts in the case to you, then you will know. Were we to inquire, where is your baptismal font to begin the operation? It is to be built for the express purpose of going down into it to be baptized for your forefathers, for the remission of their sins;  and without this, not the first step can be taken. If we cannot take the first step, it would be altogether improper in undertaking to take the last step. This would just be like a man standing at the bottom of a ladder, all the time reaching to the top round, without coming to it in the regular way by stepping on the first, second, etc. You have got to begin at the beginning. Although we are giving endowments here, yet if we had enjoyed the privilege that we should have enjoyed in the land of our nativity, and had had the privilege of building temples, and dedicating them, and of occupy- 
 ing them, there is not an act of ours but what would have been legal. If the inquiry should arise, is it by the right authority we act? I will tell you. it is by the authority of permission;  and if we had not a house here, and were disposed to take the trouble of going on these mountains, and there give the endowments, the Lord would own it, and acknowledge those endowed, and all hell could not prevail against them. * * * President Young remarked, October 6, 1851 •. The first I have noted is a question, — shall we commence to build a temple next spring, in order that we may receive our endowment more fully? There are many in this congregation who are aware that we do not give all the endowments, neither can we, legally, until we build a temple. The endowments we now give are given merely by permission, as we have not a house in which to officiate in these ordinances of salvation, that is legal, though we have got a comfortable place, which we have dedicated to the Lord, and the brethren who go therein, know and can bear testimony whether the Spirit of the Lord is there or not. Again he said on August 29, 1852: When Brother Joseph revealed the great mystery of being baptized for the dead, did not a great many of the elders of Israel think then, 'Mormonism' cannot endure;  it will be overcome." Every item of doctrine brother Joseph has brought forth had to meet with opposition from the world. At the general conference, October 6, 1852, President Brigham Young said: Joseph received the pattern of the temple in Kirtland, and said he to me, if this people would do as they are told, it would be superfluous to have a revelation. Some people are inclined to doubt the origin of the plan by which the Salt Lake temple was built, attributing the design of the temple to this or that man. The following quotations ought to settle that question once and for all: On February 14, 1853, in the ceremonies attendant upon the dedication of the temple site, President Young said: "It matters not whether we will be permitted to enjoy the temple we are about to build, or be driven from it the day after it is finished;  it is for us to do our duty and leave the event with our heavenly Father, and let him do as it seemeth him good with his own house. "Some might query whether a revelation had been given to build a house to the Lord, but he is a wicked and slothful servant who doeth nothing but what his Lord commandeth, when he knoweth his Master's will. I know a temple is needed, and so do you;  and when we know a thing, why do we need a revelation to compel us to do that thing? If the Lord and all the people want a revelation, I can give one concerning this temple. "In a few days I shall be able to give a plan of the temple on paper, and then if all heaven, or any good man on the earth will suggest any improvements, we will receive and adopt them." Again from the "Deseret News" of same date, we quote: "The president briefly recounted many vicissitudes through which the Church had passed, the difficulties they had had to encounter in Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois, and how they had been led by an overruling Providence to this consecrated spot;  that seven years tomorrow he left Nauvoo, not knowing which way he should go, only as he had learned by dreams, and visions, and revelations;  that there was a good place for the Saints in the mountains;  and that when he arrived on the spot where he then was, he declared that here was the place for a temple, though the valley had not then been explored. Messengers had gone to the north, to the west, and to the south, to find a better place, but they had found nothing better." (There were many witnesses present who would have testified to this truth, had they been called on. — Editor, News.) At the April conference following, 1854, he said: I scarcely ever say much about revelations, or visions, but suffice it to say, five years ago last July I was here, and saw in the spirit the temple not ten feet from where we have laid the chief cornerstone. I have not inquired what kind of a temple we should build. Why? Because it was represented before me. I never looked upon that ground, but the vision of it was there. I see it as plainly as if it were in reality before me. Wait until it is done. I will say, however, that it will have six towers, to begin with, instead of one. Now, do not any of you apostatize because it will have six towers, and Joseph only built one. It is easier for us to build sixteen, than it was for him to build one. The time will come when there will be one in the center of temples we shall build, and, on the top, groves and fish ponds. But we shall not see them here, at present. There is a most remarkable similitude between the plan thus revealed to President Brigham Young and that of a Nephite temple built in South America. (See "Relief Society Magazine," April, 1917.) Continuing, he said: I do not like to prophesy much, I never do, but I will venture to guess, that this day, and the work we have performed on it, will long be membered by this people, and be sounded as with a trumpet's voice throughout the world, as far, as loud, and as long as steam, wind, and the "electric current," (note this peculiar prophecy, and remember that it was delivered in 1854.) "can carry it. It is a day in which all the faithful will rejoice in all time to come. This I know — there should be a temple built here. I do know it is the duty of this people to commence to build a temple. Now, some will want to know what kind of a building it will be. Wait patiently, brethren, until it is done, and put forth your hands willingly to finish it. I know what it will be. I am not a visionary man, neither am I given much to prophesying, but I have seen this temple in vision. There was some discussion as to what building material should be used in the construction of the temple. President Young's mind associate was fixed, but he invited the opinion of his brethren. President Kimball said, October 9,1852: Brethren, shall we have the temple built of stone from Red Butte, adobies, rock, or the best stone the mountain affords? Motioned, that we build it of the best materials that can be got in the mountains. 
 President Kimball said again: He asked if we should build the temple, of stone from Red Butte, adobies, or rock from San Pete. We can build it of the very best material, for we have union, bone, marrow, and muscle. I would like to see something nice, and our president is perfectly able to give us a design of what we want for the Saints to get all their blessings in. President George A. Smith said at this same meeting: If there is the best stone or the best stick of timber in the mountains, it should be offered to the Lord. If we build of the best, the Lord will open the way for it to be got;  but if we build for the sake of the ordinances and not for worth or beauty of the structure, it will be a drag;  and if we build a splendid temple, property and everything else will increase in proportion, the Lord will accept it, nations will revere it, and the people from the four quarters of the earth will come to receive their endowments. He motioned, that we lay the foundation of the best stone, and build upon it of the best materials that Deseret will afford. Then President John Taylor remarked in seconding this motion: It would cost more money to build a house of stone than adobies. He showed that in England and France they fetch their stone for public buildings from a great distance, and at an immense expense. And if the Gentiles do it, in the name of God and common sense. I say, we must be a poor, miserable set of beings, if we cannot do the statements "We therein. are going If we to are receive our washings, cramped anointings,in and in our feelings endow-a building temple, we should feel afraid of having cramped blessings. And he seconded Elder Smith's motion. Through the winter of 1855, President Young built an endowment house in Salt Lake City, in which ordinances for the living were performed and later some baptisms and marriages for the dead, but no endowments for the dead. With enthusiasm he stirred the people to labor for the erection of a temple in Salt Lake City, then one in St. George, in Manti, and in Logan. He dedicated the temple in St. George, on January 1, 1877, and opened it for the first endowments for the dead ever offered, so far as is known, either in ancient or modern times. The following extracts from sermons preached by him in the Bowery in 1856, taken from Vols. 3 and 6 of the "Journal of Discourses," are full of suggestions: "Here is time, where is eternity? It is here just as much as anywhere in all the expanse of space;  a measured space of time is only a part of eternity. Page 369: "When the spirits of mankind leave their bodies, no matter whether the individual was a prophet or the meanest person that you could find, where do they go? To the spirit world. Where is it? I will tell you. "The spirit of Joseph, I do not know that it is just now in this bowery, but I will assure you that it is close to the Latter-day Saints, is active in preaching to the spirits in prison and preparing the way to redeem the nations of the earth, those who lived in darkness previous to the introduction of the gospel by himself in these days. "He has just as much labor on hand as I have;  he has just as much to do. Father Smith and Carlos and Brother Partridge, yes, and every other good Saint, are just as busy in the spirit world as you and I are here. They can see us, but we cannot see them unless our eyes are opened. What are they doing there? They are preaching, preaching all the time, and preparing the way for us to hasten our work in building temples here and elsewhere, and to go back, to Jackson county and build the great temple of the Lord. They are hurrying to get ready by the time our elder brother is ready. But is Joseph glorified? No, he is preaching to the spirits in prison. He will get his resurrection the first of any one in this kingdom, for he was the first that God made choice of to bring forth the work of the last days. "Those who have died without the gospel are continually afflicted by those evil spirits, who say to them — 'Do not go to hear that man Joseph Smith preach, or David Patten, or any of their associates, for they are deceivers.' "Spirits are just as familiar with spirits as bodies are with bodies, though spirits are composed of matter so refined as not to be tangible to this coarser organization. They walk, converse, and have their meetings;  and the spirits of good men like Joseph and the elders, who have left this Church on earth for a season to operate in another sphere, are rallying all their powers and going from place to place preaching the gospel, and Joseph is directing them, saying: go ahead, my brethren, and if they hedge up your way, walk up and command them to disperse. You have the priesthood and can disperse them, but if any of them wish to hear the gospel, preach to them. "Can they baptize them? No. What can they do? They can preach the gospel, and when we have the privilege of building up Zion, the time will come for saviors to come up on Mount Zion. Some of those who are not in mortality will come along and say, 'Here are a thousand names I wish you to attend to in this temple, and when you have gotten through with them I will give you another thousand';  and the elders of Israel and their wives will go forth to officiate for their forefathers, the men for the men, and the women for the women. "A man is ordained and receives his washings, anointings, and endowments for the male portion of his and his wife's progenitors, and his wife for the female portion. "Then in the spirit world they will say, 'Do you not see somebody at work for you? The Lord remembers you and has revealed to his servants on the earth, what to do for you.' "Is the spirit world here? It is not beyond the sun, but is on this earth that was organized for the people that have lived and that do and will live upon it. No other people can have it, and we can have no other kingdom until we are prepared to inhabit this eternally. In the spirit world those who have got the victory go on to prepare the way for those who live in the flesh, fulfilling the work of saviors on Mount Zion. "To accomplish this work there will have to be not only one temple, but thousands of them, and thousands and tens of thousands of men and women will go into those temples and officiate for people who have lived as far back as the Lord shall reveal. If we are faith- 
 ful enough to go back and build that great temple which Joseph has written about, and should the Lord acknowledge the labor of his servants, then watch;  for you will see somebody whom you have seen before, and many of you will see him whom you have not seen before, but you will know him as soon as you see him. "This privilege we cannot enjoy now, because the power of Satan is such that we cannot perform the labor that is necessary to enable us to obtain it. "When we commence again on the walls of the temple to be built on this block, the news will fly from Maine to California. Who will tell them? Those little devils that are around here, that are around this earth in the spirit world;  there will be millions of them ready to communicate the news to devils in Missouri, Illinois, California, Mexico, and in all the world. And the question will be 'What is the news?' The answer will come;  'There is some devilish thing going on among the 'Mormons' and I know it. Those 'Mormons' ought to be killed.' They do not know what stirs them up to this feeling;  it is the evil spirits that are continually near them. "We all have good spirits to attend us;  when the eyes of the servant of Elijah were opened he saw that those for them, were more than those against them. There are two-thirds for us, and onethird against us;  and there is not a son or daughter of Adam but what will be saved in some kingdom and receive a glory and an exaltation to a degree, except those who have had the privileges of the gospel and rejected it and sinned against the Holy Ghost;  they will become servants to devils." QUESTIONS. 1. When was the Nauvoo temple built? 2. Who did the work therein? 3. When was the endowment house built? 4. Where is heaven? 5. What are the spirits of our prophets doing in paradise? 6. Have we enough temples now to