EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. NOVEMBER. 1017. No. 
 Once a year we set ourselves the task of Public being publicly grateful to our heavenly Thanksgiving. Father for his bounteous gifts of orchard and field. The Lord loves a grateful soul. Yet our gratitude is so often mixed with a feeling that we deserve all the good things we have, and then a few more, that the spoken thanks sound hollow and the Thanksgiving service rings a little untrue. Don't you know people who accept gifts What Is without a "thank you." and who look bored Gratitude? as they receive your generous offering? Carlyle says that "gratitude is a lively sense of favors to come." President Heber J. Grant tells of an old couple who had received yearly from him a Christmas box. One season some accident delayed the delivery of the box at Christmas time. Immediately there came a stinging letter of reproach and a wailing rebuke which proved the true spirit in which the gifts had been received. YYe are'ant to fancy that the world owes us a better living, that our husbands owe us more love and consideration, that friends owe us more social attention, that children owe EDITORIAL. 643 us more gratitude, that the political party owes us a better position, that our country owes us protection, that the Church Loves us better official recognition. And so on down the lines of our grievance. What about our debt to all of these? What Our Debts. do we owe husbands for their tireless labors, their courageous championship of ourselves and our little ones? Our friends for their patience with our faults, their affection for our unworthy selves? What an enormous debt of gratitude do we not owe our children for the opportunities they have given us for spiritual growth, for earth-experiences and for the best of soul-culture? We owe much to our political leaders whose characters are assassinated, whose homes are sometimes wrecked, and whose friends are forever turned into foes because of the bitter warfare which strews all political arenas with the crucified hearts of leaders who possess the vital spark of human kindness and sympathy. What then can we say of our debt to our country, to the brave battalions of lusty young American soldiers? Our country whose flag protects us from every insult and injury from every other nation and foreign power? To our brave soldier boys who adventure death freely that we may walk safely and sleep securely at home? Above all, what profound obligations are ours towards that heavenly Parent who gave us breath and being, who permits the sun to shine upon us. and life to offer pain and pleasure as our divine development requires! Come, let us thank all these for unnumbered Be Thankful. favors and then when that is done, we may retire into the secret recesses of the soul and be grateful to ourselves that we have left undone some things and accomplished a few others. This, lest we become abased and disillusioned as our debts of love and gratitude to others weigh frown the balances and leave us altogether poor and shorn. Dear Savior, all we have is thine, make us grateful to thee and to all, in truth, and not alone in seeming. LIBERTY BONDS. The second installment of Liberty bonds. Liberty just now offered to the American people, Bonds should be patronized by those who are able and patriotic, and certainly every Latter-day Saint, both man and woman, is patriotic. The bonds have a two-fold mission, one part of which is to provide the government with money with which to prosecute this righteous war, the other to 
 allow the burden of that war to fall rather on the shoulders of those who have means to invest than upon the poor. Were it not for these bonds our taxes would be increased so heavily that many of us who are not of the moneyed class would be forced to abandon our homes, and in many instances to suffer extreme poverty. Our Church has been most loyal in the recent Conference and will purchase a quarter of a million dollars worth of these bonds. Every man and woman who can do so witInvest in out too much personal sacrifice should Liberty follow this excellent example. If you have monBonds. cy to save, put it in a bond. It is safer than any business or other investment which can be named and the interest is as good as that offered by savings banks. The Liberty llond is a safe and patriotic investment and we recommend to all our readers who can do so to take one or more of these bonds. We would not think it wise to borrow money to invest in these bonds,nor should the special funds of this Society be used for any such purpose as they have been collected for specified uses, such as annual dues, charity, wheat, and temple work, and cannot rightly be diverted into other channels. Where a Society has money in the general fund and desires to invest such money, it is quite proper to use it for the purchase of the bom's. We trust, and indeed feel sure, that the people of Utah, and the states surrounding, as always, will prove themselves loyal and patriotic in this matter. L. D. S. U. SCHOOL OF MUSIC. The mothers of gifted musical children may not know of the new arrangement for reduced student fees now introduced into the L. D. S. University School of Music. With ten of Utah's leading musicians, lessons are being given at 75 cents and $1.00 per lesson. It is not necessary for the student to be in other classes at the L. D. S. High School as these rates are available to outside pupils and for children of any age. It is simply an arrangement for mothers of modest means to get the best teachers at moderate prices through the new music school. The artist teachers are: Emma Lucy Gates, B. Cecil Gates, Edwin P. Kimball. Florence Jepperson, Tracy Y. Cannon, Romania Hyde, Owen Sweeten, Marian Cannon. Margaret Summerhays, Irving Snow. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December. NEW TESTAMENT TIMES. (Reading: Matthew, Chapters 5, 6, 7.) If you were an inmate of your Eastern home, you would become familiar with the domestic work of your mother. "With willing hands," as they said in those days, she wielded the distaff and the spindle. The spindle, which she might carry about with her, was a small instrument. "It consisted of a smooth, wooden pin, or stem, about the size and shape of a long wooden pen holder. This was inserted at its thick end into a hole of a hemispherical 'top' or whorl, which was the exact shape of the crown of a small mushroom. It was this top which the English translation calls 'distaff.' A small brass hook, fastened to the end of the stem which protruded slightly above the whorl, completed the spindle." You watched her interestedly as she wound some wool on a small wooden frame, into which she inserted her left hand, holding it with her palm next the thumb, so that all her fingers would be left free; as she fastened the hook of the spindle to the bunch of wool, and twirled the spindle swiftly at its lower end, between the thumb and the middle finger of the right hand, drawing the thread deftly with the fingers of both hands; as, when the twisted thread was about the length of her arm, she unhooked it without breaking it off, wound it on the stem of. the spindle just below the whorl, and then fastened it to the hook close to the raw material  continuing these operations till the bunch of wool was converted into a spindle of thread. You would know also that all the clothes worn by your father, not to speak of your own and your mother's, were made at home. You would be aware, doubtless, that your mother's reputation for diligence and loving care as a wife would be made by the men, including your father, who sat in the market-place or "at the gates of the city among the elders of the land," telling tales and parables, and discussing matters of public interest; and that your father, if his clothes were neat in appearance, would praise his wife "as a costly jewel." Nor would you be ignorant of the fact that all the grinding 
 of meal and flour was done at home by your mother. The jadoos, or grinder, which was most probably shared by one or two other families related to you, consisted "of two round stones  an upper and a nether  from eighteen to twenty inches in diameter, and about four inches in thickness. It was a portable article. The two stones were held together by a wooden pin which was securely fastened in the center of the nether stone, and passed through a funnel-shaped hole in the center of the upper stone. A wooden handle was inserted near the outer edge of the upper stone." When your mother had only a small quantity of wheat to grind, she operated this mill alone, but when she had a large quantity to grind or when she wished to turn drudgery into pleasant work, she invited another woman to join her at the task. t Perhaps you would not have been very much worried over the fact, but it would be a fact none the less, that your being a girl instead of a boy made a great difference so far as your education was concerned. Your brother, as already stated, would not only have been a little better received than you on coming into the world, but would receive mental and cultural education to the extent of the family purse. You on your part would receive little of this, other than what you might absorb in your associations with the members of your family and the neighbors. Your brother, if the family could afford it, might even have a private tutor. But, after all, you would not be very likely to miss it, not knowing what it was for a girl to be educated. The saying of Shakespeare would apply in your case, "Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." At eleven or twelve years of age you would begin to wear a heavy veil  such a one as would completely hide your face. Without this veil you would never, after marriage, appear in public. You would probably be married, if you were married at all, before twenty. After this age you would be everywhere accounted an old jnaid. The man you married you might never have seen before, let alone met him. The engagement and all the preliminaries for marriage would have been attended to by your parents, most likely by your father. Prior to the nuptials there would have been nothing in the form of a courtship, therefore, as with us modern Westerners. In the East, to this very day, there is no "going out with a fellow." Your parents and the parents of the young man whom you were expected to marry would meet for the arrange as isments. Most likely often your today, the case father, would instead ask of giving one. a dowery If he did not, with like Jacob's The father-in-law, engagement might you last would a whole be year, considered highly you honored." during which would not meet your affianced. And what is more, the engagement GUIDE LESSONS. 647 would be as binding as a marriage, and could be annulled only by the formalities of a divorce. "But suppose you did not like each other?" That would not matter. The probability is as great that you would be happy as it is under our own system where the young people not only know each other but have the matter of choice in their own hands. "In both the East and the West the perfectly happy and the perfectly unhappy marriages are rare. In both hemispheres the large majority of married people soon learn that domestic happiness depends in no small measure on adherence to the well-known rule: Tn essentials unity: in non-essentials liberty in all things charity.' " On the whole the reason for this arrangement of marriage which prevailed in the Hebrew commonwealth and in the East generally arose put of the lack of education in the woman and the unstable conditions of the people, socially and politically. "These limitations were especially narrow in the case of 'maidens,' or 'virgins;' that is, unmarried women. They were not supposed to participate in social functions as their mothers did, nor to form friendships with young men, even among their own relatives. The contracting of marriage was not so much an individual as a community affair." The whole purpose in your marriage would be, not to have a "soul-mate" nor yet to secure for you a provider, but to give you the right properly to become a mother of children, or, strictly speaking, a "mother of men." The Jewish woman was known only as a wife and mother, the home-builder. The controversy implied in the phrase, "Woman's place is the home," could excite no -dispute in the East. That place was settled once for all by the general sentiment of the community. "Marriage was a religious union. The highest and most sacred duty of the husband and wife was to beget many children, bring them up 'in the fear of the Lord,' and be such a good example to them, as to enable them to live a pious life, and to transmit their good heritage to the unborn generations." As a married woman you would have a sort of emancipation. You would assume a place of honor in the community. Contrary to the impression that prevails pretty generally today with respect to the status of woman among the ancient Hebrews, you would, in the home, be the equal of your husband in every respect. "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them"  would lie understood to apply to you as well as to your husband. So, too, would the sayings of Paul the apostle, which he obtained as much from his Old Testament training as from Christianity, although they were uttered later than the time of Elizabeth and Mary: "There is neither male nor female: for we are all one in 
 Christ," and "The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband; and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife." The same single standard of morality would be required of both. Infidelity to the marriage vow would be punished in the husband as in the wife. So they were equal there. Then again the children would be required to obey you as well as their father. The law of Moses is explicit in this respect, in the case of the rebellious son who will not "obey the voice of father or the voice of his mother." To be sure there would be some restrictions on you. You would be bound down to the veil, for instance, you would not be expected to talk much in the presence of men, and the field of your endeavor would be confine d to the home. Rut these and other like limitations would be imposed upon you not because men wished to make a slave of you but because they wished to protect you. For we must remember that these restrictions arose out of conditions of insecurity, social and political, when it was more or less common to steal women. And "the duty to protect always carries with it the right to discipline," as when the strong men of a clan protect, and in some respect subject, the weaker men who need protection. In a word, finally, if you were living in Palestine at the time of Elizabeth and Mary, you would be expected to try to reach the ideal embodied in the following description in Proverbs: "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant's ships: she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it; with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengthened her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night." QUESTIONS. 1. Describe the work of the spindle in those days. 2. Who made the men's clothes? Why was this the case? 3. Tell of the education of children. 4. How did a young girl marry then? 5. How do you account for this arrangement of the marriage problem? Which is the better, theirs or ours? Why? 6. What was the purpose of marriage then? What is the purpose now? 7. What was the status of the married woman then? Were there any restrictions on her? What were they? Is there any justification GUIDE LESSONS. 649 for these? 8. Judging by the passage quoted from Proverbs, what was the ideal woman of the ancient Hebrews? Give details one by one. 9. What is the ideal woman today among the Latter day Saints? Among the world? Compare and contrast the three ideals. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in December. OUTLINES OF ANCIENT HISTORY. It is necessary for the student who wishes to become acquainted with the tribes of the earth, as they descended from Father Adam, to review succinctly the historical chronology as given in the Bible, with a little reference to the Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price. It is our purpose to frame an historical and genealogical ladder which shall reach from our present times back to Father Adam. We have given only the tables and outlines of sacred history in this lesson. The student and teacher should refer to the Bible to substantiate and further illustrate the matter provided in this lesson. Such of our Societies as purchased Smith's Old Testament History will find much assistance briefly prepared in that excellent book. We suggest, however, that too much time be not spent upon this lesson, unless the students care to meet once a week in the evening, as they already do in some of our stakes and wards, to supplement the study which we offer here as a monthly lesson. HISTORICAL OUTLINES OF SACRED HISTORY. Introductory. (a) Malachi 4:5. "Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."(b) "And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (As quoted by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.) 
 Importance of this work. (a) Doc. and Cov. 110:127, 128. (b) An unbroken chain made by saviors upon Mt. Zion who labor in temples. (c) St. John 20:12. "The U>oks were opened; and another book was opened, which is the Rook of Life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (d) Importance of keeping records accurately. (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 128:8. (e) Vicarious work. Not a modern work. History. A domoic Dispensation. (a) Adam  inspired to read and write  taught children. (b) Enoch  seventh century  called to preach  vision  genealogies. (Slow of speech.) (See Pearl of Great Price.) i c I Methuselah  Enoch's son left on earth to fulfil promise. (d) Noah  flood  three sons and families saved. (e) Peleg  earth divided to the families of the sons of Noah after their generations, in their nations. (f) Tower of Rabel  confusion of tongues. (See Genesis, chapter eleven.) (g) Jared and those with him not confused, led to a promised land  barges  record made. (See Rook of Ether, R. of M.) Hebrew Dispensation. (a) Abram or Abraham: promise to him. (b) Isaac (Rebecca). Ishmael (Hagar). Descendants: Hebrews from Isaac; Arabs and Edomites from Tshmael. (c) Midian, son of Keturah. Father of Midianites. (d) Lot, father of Moabites and Ammonites. (e) Jacob (Israel) : Leah and Rachel, twelve sons. ( f) Esau, father of Edomites. (g* Joseph; his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Israel in Egypt. three Seventy million persons returned went b400 down years to after Egypt in Joseph's under Moses. day; nearly Retained their own manners, language, religion and patriarchal government, but were in bondage. Religions of the Ancient World. 1. Monotheism  belief in one God. 2. Polytheism  belief in many gods. 3. Pantheism  nature as the supreme being. (A circle.) GUIDE LESSONS. 651 Mosaic Dispensation. (a) Moses the law-giver, slow of speech. Tablets of stone. Gave genealogies of people in Numbers. (b) Deliverance  Land of Canaan. (c) Joshua governed 25 years. Inheritance by lot. (d) Levites. (e) Fifteen judges. Samuel the last. (f) Three kings  Saul, David and Solomon. (g) Kingdom of Israel divided, B. C. 975: Judah (Rhehcboam), Judah and Benjamin; Israel (Jeroboam), ten tribes. (h) Revolt of the Ten Tribes. (i) Kingdom of Israel; nine different dynasties; nineteen kings; 225 years. (j) Shalmanezer, king of Assyria, took Israel captive (200,- 000), ending the national history of the Ten Tribes. 722 B. C. (k) Kingdom of Judah survived Israel 135 years, having but one dynasty and 20 kings. The Jewish Captivity. (a) King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah, ascended the throne 581 B. C. (b) Zedekiah carried captive to Babylon, 589 B. C. Sons slain; eyes put out. Jerusalem taken. Temple burned. People taken to Babylon. Lehi left Jerusalem during Zedekiah's reign before captivity. (c) Colony in Chaldea; comforted in captivity by the prophets; chastised for their disobedience and transgressions. (d) During captivity Babylonian Empire overthrown by Medo-Persian Empire, 538 B. C. Media, descendants of Madai. son of Japheth; Persia, Aryans, akin to the Medes. (e) Cyrus found Jews an oppressed race in whose religion he discovered a considerable resemblance to his own. (Zoroaster) (Daniel 43:36"). Permitted Ezra and Nehemiah to return to Jerusalem with a large concourse. (f) Temple rebuilt. 521-516-515; dedicated. (g) Samaritans, descendants of the original Ten Tribes, mixed later by frequent intermarriage with the heathen nations. (h) Ahasuerus (Xerxes), a Persian, married Esther 473 B. C. (i) Ezra led back another colony to Jerusalem 458 B. C. Stopped all intermarriages with other nations. (j) Ezra and Nehemiah arranged books of the Old Testament; rebuilt walls of city and fortified it under arms. Note: "Babylonian captivity thoroughly cured Jews of idolatry. Henceforth avoided mingling with idolatrous nations." 
 Semitic idolatrous polytheism vanished. Pure spiritual monotheism advanced. The Ten Tribes in the North Country. (a) Ten Tribes started for Canaan but traveled north. In one and one-half years achieved 2,800 miles. Burdened with their flocks and herds, and the old and inform. (b) Led by the Lord to a land in the north. Were they the ancestors of the Teutons? (c) Danish mounds were graves with jewels and trinkets. Danish manner of burying dead similar to habits of Israelites. (d) Legends (Scandinavian). Heaps of stone as landmarks should they wish to return. (e) Israelitish colonies and parts of families left behind; rebellious, infirm, and young. (f) From these remnants it is affirmed sprang the Norsemen and Teutons generally. Old Testament prophecies that Israel, especially Ephraim, should be scattered among the people. Conclusion. European history begins in Greece. "Much of the life we live today, with its political, social and intellectual advantages, its music, painting, oratory and sculpture, its thirst for knowledge and its free institution, was transmitted from the Greek to the Roman, by him to the Teutons, and so handed on to us." (Greece was conquered by the Romans.) MedoPersian Empire was conquered by the Romans who ruled all the country around the Mediterranean. "As at Rome all ancient history converges, so from Rome all modern history be QUESTIONS. gins." What can you say of the mission and immediate descent from Father Adam through Seth? (Read Genesis, chapter 5.) How did Adam learn to write and keep records? (See Pearl of Great Price. Moses 6:5-8; 6:46.) What can you tell of Enoch? How did Noah's three sons settle up the earth? (Genesis, chapter 10.) Who was Peleg? (Genesis 10:25.) When did Jared and his brother go out of the Promised Land? Who are Jacob's twelve sons? When did the Ten Tribes go into the North country? What especial service did Ezra and Nehemiah render to the Jew? What does tradition say about the Danish mounds? Tell what you can of Grecian learning. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 THE FIRST CHRISTMAS DAY. "And there were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by nigiht. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were so' e afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to ah people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:8-14). Around the name of Christmas is a halo of sweet songs and stories, but none can ever be dearer to the hearts of true Christians than this simple first tale of the birth of the Christ child. In these troublous, tragic times, the words of the heavenly host seem more sanctified than ever. A prayer must be in every Godfearing heart to hasten the day when there will be peace on earth, good will toward men. Read the story aloud and listen to the melting music of its lines. Think of the picture it suggests; read Ben Hur, with its fanciful story, and see how Lew Wallace Has brought these pictures out for use in vivid intensity. The following paragraph of the first Christmas eve is taken from his chapter on the coming of the angels to the shepherds: "That night, like most nights in the winter season in the hill country, was clear, crisp, and sparkling with stars. There was no wind; the atmosphere seemed never so pure. And the stillness was more than silence; it was a holy birth, a warning that heaven was stooping low to whisper some good thing to the listening earth." Following this he gives in dramatic form the story of the coming of the angel to the shepherds, of the singing of the heavenly host, and the visit of the shepherds to see the babe in the manger. Ben Hur is one of the greatest of stories based on the life of the Savior. Yet nothing compares with the Bible itself. Another tale that has won great fame is The Story of the Other Wise Man, by Henry Van Dyke. The spirit of the true Christian is portrayed in a remarkable way in this story. It deals with an imagined fourth wise man who failed to meet the other 
 three magi at the appointed time and place, and spent his lite in search of the Savior  a life of sacrifice, sorrow and noble deeds. His quest seemed unfruitful till at the last in his dying moments he was given the vision of his Master, and he passed to his rest, knowing he had found the Savior whom he had so faithfully followed all his days. A simpler Christmas story  on which children of all ages from ninety to nine enjoy  is The Birds' Christmas Carol, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. It pictures the two extremes of city life. Carol Rird, a rich little girl but an invalid, becomes interested in the ragged little Ruggleses. who live in a kind of "poverty flat" near the Bird mansion. Mrs. Ruggles is a hard-working widow with a large family on her hands. Christmas is coming, and Carol decides to invite the Ruggles children to dinner. The excitement caused by this unexpected lionor, the preparations made for them to appear "in style," the drills that Mrs. Ruggles gives her unruly youngsters in "manners" are very amusing; yet underneath it all is a sweet pathos, and a life lesson on which the reader loves to linger. Another Christmas Carol is that written by Charles Dickens. This has become a classic. and is usually studied in our schools. The theme is the redemption of Scrooge, a miserly old business man and a bachelor, whose love of the dollar has driven every instinct out of his lite and left him sordid and lonely. 1'is partner. Jacob Marley, appears to Scrooge in a dream. Mar ley has been dead for sonic years and he returns to warn Scrooge. of the fate that awaits him if he does not change his life. Then appear in turn three ghosts  the ghosts of the Christmas Past, the Christmas Present, and the Christmas of the Future. Scrooge is taken by the ghost of the past over the scenes of his boyhood; the ghost of the Christmas present asks him to sec the joys of the Christmas time which he has long ceased to share; and the ghost of the future shows him the end towards which his selfish life is leading. In his terror Scrooge wakes from the dream strongly resolved to mend his ways, and he keeps his resolve in a most generous way thereafter. The charming pictures of Christmas, the sweet wholesomeness of the holiday spirit that the story reveals make this a tale that continues to give delight to all. It should lxread every year in our schools and homes. The spirit of Christmas is reflected also by many delightful songs and poems of various kinds. Among the earliest of these are the quaint old carols still sung on Christmas morning in GUIDE LESSONS. 655 merry cal of England these: and elsewhere. The following stanzas are typiAs Joseph was a walking He heard the angel sing, "This shall be the birth-night, Of Christ our heavenly king. "His birth bed shall be neither In housen nor in hall, Nor in the place of paradise, But in the oxen's stall. From As Joseph Was a Walking. God rest you merry, gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay, For Jesus Christ our Savior, Was born upon this day, To save us all from Satan's power, When we were gone astray. From "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen." Among the other time-honored Christmas songs are "The Cradle Hymn," by Martin Luther, and "Silent Night, Holy Night," by Von Weber, which are perhaps best known. The sweet simplicity of their soulful lines make them live forever with us. Following is the opening stanza of the last named song: Holy night, silent night, All is calm, all is bright, Round yon Virgin mother and child, Holy infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" is to be found in the Deseret Sunday School Song Book, No. 214. These and other sweet Christmas hymns should often be heard in our homes. Other delightful Christmas poems for children  and grown folks too are "The Very Rest Kind of Christmas Tree," by Henry Van Dyke; "Piccola," Celia Thaxter; "A Real Santa Clans," Frank D. Sherman; "The Fool's Christmas," Florence May Alt. As a final word to close this pleasant task of outlining these few lessons on "Literature for the Home," the writer of these 
 lessons would express appreciation for the kindly spirit with which the lessons have been received, and offer the hope that the seeds sown through them may find constant expression in better books, choicer stories and songs in our homes, and the sharing of these riches constantly around the family fireside. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Name the ten subjects that have been taken up in the course on "Literature for the Home," during the year. 2. What choice thought has come from this study to you? What practical result has come from the course and found expression in your life or home? 3. For this last lesson of the series, we suggest that a program be planned on "Christmas in Song and Story." Some such outline as the following might well be followed: (a) Christmas Song, "Holy Night," or another. (b) Reading of St. Luke 2:8-14. The First Christmas Story, or have selections from Ben Hur  (two or three pages) taken from the chapter of the Angel and the Shepherds. (c) Telling of the story of The Other Wise Man. Christmas. Luther's Cradle Hymn, or another suggestive of (d) (e) Birds' Christmas Carol, readings from this story. (f) Solo, "The Children's Friend," or some other story appropriate to the occasion. (g) Reading of one or two poems named in this article, (h) Closing song. LESSON IV. Home Economics. SPIRITUAL CHARACTER BUILDING IN CHILDHOOD. Introductory. Ethics is the relationship of man to man; religion is the relationship of man to his God. With this definition we pass to our discussion of this subject. Latter-day Saint mothers realize the importance of teaching their children faith and of developing the spiritual character of their children. Rut how shall it be done, when shall it be done, and by whom shall it be done? "The time to begin training a child," as Oliver Wendell Holmes once remarked, "is one hundred years before the child is born." which implies the necessity for righteous marriage, and wise choice, that we may give our children good spiritual beginnings. Some mothers who are not born