[The Wearing of the Green by Frances Carter Yost]

Wearing of the Gay Frances Carter Yost RANNY O'Donnell felt all seventy of her years drag as she walked the four blocks from the depot to her little white and green trimmed cottage. Her old black leather purse under her arm wasn't heavy any more. And there wasn't enough money left in the purse to bother clenching it tightly, as she had when she went to the station. "A ticket to Ireland and return costs as much as St.
Patrick probably would a'paid for the whole of the Emerald Isle," she murmured. "Why, with prices doubling and tripling, there's nary enough left to buy the coat and hat me figured on buying in Salt Lake City." As Granny turned the corner and caught sight of her home, her pace quickened. The little, squatty house, with its beak of a front porch, somehow reminded Granny of a big Kildare County hen begging her to get under its wing. The evergreens near the doorstep were beckoning Granny to stay here in this dear home forever. "Begorry, there's nary a chance a 'coaxin' me to stay, pretty house," she said. 'Patricia O'Donnell made up me mind years ago when once me laid hands to enough money I'd take meself back to dear old Emerald Isle for to gather me genealogy. And stir me up for Irish pancakes, I'll make the trip if I have to go in the togs I been a wearin' these past twenty years." 
Granny shook her fist at the house and the evergreens. She turned the key in the lock, and as she let herself in, she murmured: "That's what's in me craw.
False pride is what's pullin' me spirits down to rock bottom. Gettin' too proud to be seen gettin' on that train at five p. M.
This day with me 'same old plush coat and this old hat with the chicken feather. And me a carrin' this old carpetbag which is packed for the takin'. Yes, sir, lettin' false pride swallow me up hook, bait, and Irish catfish."
Granny gave the door a bit of a slam for emphasis.
Releasing the hat pin, she removed her hat.
Then she noticed her reflection in the hall mirror.
This time she did not address the house or the door, but her own reflection. "Patricia O'Donnell, I'm ashamed of ye.
Here this, dear old coat has served ye well these twenty years like an old friend, warmin' yer bones every time ye steps out of the house, and ye wantin' to kick hat, coat, and carpetbag aside to make a showin' in front of yer friends as the train pulls out. - Now, ya listen to me, Patricia O'Donnel, the important thing is the goin' to Ireland and the gettin' the genealogy of your ancestry. The important thing isn't the clothes ya go in. "The very idea, considerin' spendin' the rest of yer days in Ireland 'stead of Zion, so ye could have money for extras. Ye'll get on that THE WEARING OF THE GAY train with your head high and a smile on yer face, and ye'll come back wearin' the same smile and the same coat, ya understand? "Course I realize, Patricia, how ye feel. If ye was dressed better, yer relatives over in the Emerald Isle would believe ye when ye tells 'em what a grand and glorious place America really is. Course, I understand these clothes might give "em some wrong notions about how nice Zion's been to you. But yer wearin' em, and: proud, ya understand?"
Granny hung: her coat carefully on a hanger, placed the hat on the hall shelf, and went into the living room. A flame burned low on the hearth.
Granny placed a _ pine bough on the fire and watched a cone sputter. "Begorry, a fire takes away the March chill," she said. The old walnut-paneled room, which reflected dignity and an air of its Irish owner, seemed to put a comforting arm about her. She dropped into the rocker by the fireplace. "I 'spect I'll just miss Relief Society. Today.
Much better I'd rather spend me last hours here alone than mix with the crowd.
Sure and I'll sit meself here till time to make the train. 'True, 'twill be the first Tuesday to see me not attendin' the society. But 'tis few will miss old Granny O'Donnell. Why t'was only the day before this that I put meself forward and went strollin' round to the various homes fixin' to say goodbye." GRANNY leaned her head back on the rocker headrest, then, as though the clock reversed itself twenty-four hours, it was Monday chine out. 71 when Granny had put her coat on and went around the village calling on friends.. The first house Cony had stopped at was Bessie Moore's, secretary of the Relief Society.
Granny rang the door bell, and Bessie opened the door herself. At sight of Granny O'Donnell, Bessie quickly whisked something pink she was sewing behind her. "Come in, Granny," she said.
Bessie always washed on Monday, but today she had her sewing maDraped over the table was a beautiful brunch coat of flowered silk. "Bessie, me girl," said Granny, "if yer fingers are not busy sewin' for the Society ye are sewin' for someone else. Now who, pray tell, is this pretty kimono for?"
Bessie cleared her throat. "Granny, my Bessie Bell goes to college this year," but her voice was unnatural. "Sure, and she'll be a pretty gal when she wraps herself in this flowered kimono," Granny said with a twinkle. "Well, Bessie, since yer sewin' 'stead of washin' today, and I can't hang the clothes on the line for ye, t'will be leavin' I will." "See you at meeting tomorrow," Bessie had called after her. RANNY had stopped next at Helen Morgan's, president of the society. She rang the door bell, three short ones, which Helen knew was Granny's code, then she walked in.
Helen wasn't washing either this bright March Monday. Funny, Granny 'thought, Helen Morgan always washed on Monday, rain or shine. She was pressing blouses. 172 "Good morning, Granny.
Nice day isn't it?" and Helen went on placidly pressing each blouse. "Land sakes, Sister Morgan, when I seen the line empty o' clothes me thought ye was sick in yer bed with yer feet on a pillow," Granny laughed. "Come over I did, to fix ye some soup." "Well, now, Granny, a person can vary her life a little. Today I'm pressing." Helen Morgan was calm on all occasions, a quality equal to the position of president of the organization.
Helen rested her iron and smoothed her dark hair over her ears and into the bun at the nape of her neck. "Land sakes, if ya won't 12a fancy, Sister Morgan, dressed in those colors o' blouses.
White ye'll be wearin' on funeral days, pink for Sunday mornings, an' yellow for Relief Society meeting. Land, but that green blouse takes me eye."
There hadn't ever been time or money in Granny's life to think of fancy blouses and tailored suits. A film came over Granny's eyes, but her mouth wore its usual smile. Helen Morgan noticed Granny fighting for control. She quickly changed the subject from clothing. "Granny, we'll be expecting you to Relief Society tomorrow, same as always. Then I'll drive you to the station in time to catch the five P. M.
Train for Salt Lake City."
Helen hung the last blouse on its hanger. "Now, that's right nice of ye," * Granny said. "Well, it's best I push on.
Wanted to visit a little today, this bein' me last." | As Granny went out of the front door she noticed a gray and a green which made her —  suit on the hall tree. "Probably Helen's girls left them _ there thoughtlessly.
Helen waits on the family hand, foot, and heart," Granny murmured to herself. Sarah Hall's home was Granny's next stop.
Granny went around to the back door. "Sarah will probably be in her utility room this cheerful mornin' an' won't hear me a knockin' at the front," Granny murmured. But Sarah wasn't washing. As she swung the door open for Granny a fragrant aroma of baking cookies rushed out to fill Granny's nostrils. As they entered, Sarah threw a clean tea towel over a fancy box she was packing. "Have a cookie, Granny."
Sarah was considered the best cook in the village. She worked quickly be | tween rolling, cutting, and watching the cookies in the oven. "These are a new kind, Granny, called Scotch bread. Try them." She handed a plate to Granny. "Sure an I could tell it was Scotch by the size," Granny laughed. "Sarah, believe me, ye could take the prize for bakin' at the world fair."
Granny reached for another cookie. "But ye're too busy to be bothered with a gabber like o' me. And far be it from Patricia O'Donnell to interfere with a person's bakin'.". And Granny started for the door. "See you at the meeting tomortow," Sarah called from the range.
Granny made short calls on Martha Tingey, Hannah Jones, and Mary Stone, the organist of the Relief Society.
Queer thing, not one of the ladies had washed this Mon- (Continued on page 203) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE RELIEF SOCIETY—Programme of Exercises. (The general Jubilee meeting will be held in the Assembly Hall or Large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, commencing at 10 A. M., Thursday, March 17, 1892, it being fifty years since the first organization, March 17, 1842.):.
Singing by the Tabernacle Choir, Prof. E. Stephens, Musical Director The Grand Invocation, by Eliza R. Snow, "O My Father, Thou That Dwellest."
Prayer by President Angus M. Cannon. | Singing, "How Firm a Foundation, Ye Saints of the Lord." Opening Address, President Zina D. H. Young. Reading, The Revelation to Emma Smith, Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card.
Reading a sketch of the Relief Society prepared for the occasion.
Singing by the Choir, Original Song by Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee, "The.
Daughters of Zion! The Friends of the Poor."
Addresses by Counselors, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
Addresses by the Apostles.
Speech by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary, and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer. Sentiments, The Relief Society and the Women of Zion, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y. Anthem, "Daughter of Zion, Awake From Thy Sadness."
Prayer at High Noon, By One of the First Presidency. Ek ek ek THE COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION will afford an opportunity for world-wide representation, such as never has been known in the history of this continent. The great and growing West with its boundless possibilities is still comparatively unknown to the Western world. The World's Fair of 1893 will give such grand opportunities for celebrity as have never before been accessible....
Utah is positively coming to the front in the van of the states...
Holding out splendid inducements for men of means, of skill and ingenuity to make available her native products.—Editorial ODE TO SPRING I wakened to the singing of a bird; I heard the bird of spring, And lol! At his sweet note The flowers began to grow As if the green world heard The trumpet of his tiny throat —Mrs. James T. Fields BEAR LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Pres. Julia P.
Lindsay was pleased with the reports given, spoke of the importance of attending meetings often.... Coun. Elizabeth Collings bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this work.... "May we strive to be faithful that we may have clear consciences."" Coun. Lizzie Hart spoke of filling the mission of assisting the sick and poor, also of improving now and not waiting for a better time to come to improve the opportunities.... —Sylvia Broomhead, Cor. Sec'y.  ONCLUDING an AmericanDanish pact in Copenhagen, Mrs. Eugenie Anderson, the United States Ambassador to Denmark, has become the first woman to sign a treaty for the United States which includes the following three points: friendship, commerce, and navigation. RS. MILDRED McAFEE _~ HORTON, former president of Wellesley College, is the first woman to become a member of the board of directors of Radio Corporation of America. RS. RUTH MAY FOX, former president of the Y. W. M. LA., became ninety-eight years old on November sixteenth. She followed, this year, her usual custom of sending to her friends Christmas cards, on which was printed an original poem—one of power and beauty. OUISE SNELGROVE (Mrs. Willard B.) Richards, of Salt Lake City, who turned ninety-five on the twelfth of December, died January 25, 1952. 'Though her body was confined to bed for some time preceding her death, her mind moved clearly and commandingly. She astonished her-friends with her accurate memory. A daughter says, "Company, to Mother, was like a blood transfusion—she picked up immediately." Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon (\N November twenty-sixth, Mr. And Mrs. Heber Pehrson, of Salt Lake City, celebrated their sixty- — first wedding anniversary.
Their twelve sons and daughters were born in Fairview, Utah. (CHARLOTTE WHITTON, fiftyfive, is the first woman to become mayor of a large Canadian city, in this case, the capital, Ottawa. L¥Ucx SMITH (Mrs. Thomas B.) Cardon, of Logan, Utah, former Relief Society general board member, celebrated her hundredth birthday on January fifth. She is still mentally alert and delightful. She enjoyed a wonderful party, receiving telegrams and floral remembrances from many Church and civic Officials. Her own ward Relief Society organization sent a hundred red roses.
Seven of her eleven children are living, and fifty-nine grand, great, and great-great grandchildren. EMMA DUNN KING, of Wendell, Idaho, great-granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt, has published articles and poetry, teaches Relief Society classes, and has been elected National Committeewoman of the Young Democratic Clubs of Idaho.  C-> EDITORIAL 9 

VOL.
39 MARCH 1952 A TMlessage to Reliof Society ITH the return of Anniversary Day each year, Relief Society women the world over are led to contemplate anew the divine origin and mission of this great woman's auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are led to consider our individual responsibilities toward it, and we resolve in our hearts, perhaps, to measure up more fully to what is expected of us. The work of Relief Society is manifold and great, the mission of the Society divine. The prophets of the Lord, with inspired vision, have pointed the path and directed the course of the Society since the days of its founding. Said the Prophet Joseph Smith: "This Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." President Brigham Young, referring to its functions, specified: "These Societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits, our methods of living." President Lorenzo Snow, directing the Society along educational lines, declared: "The Society should deal with subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women in all lines of thought and action that benefit humanity." President Joseph F. Smith, referring to the mission of Relief Society, said: "It is not designed to look only after _ the poor and the needy as to their bodily necessities, but it is also intended to look after the spiritual,  mental, and moral welfare of the mothers and daughters in Zion, and all who are engaged or interested in female work." President Heber J. Grant defined the Society as a "service institution," saying, "This institution is built upon service." President George Albert Smith, addressing a Priesthood session of a_ general Church conference, referred to the work of Relief Society as follows: "Through that great organization, the Relief Society, begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was given to womankind the dispensation of representing the Lord, in their way, as daughters, as wives, as mothers, and as representatives of their kind in all the world." From our present beloved First Presidency have come impressive words. At the general conference in 1950, President David O. McKay emphasized the growing power and influence of Relief Society and urged "that increased attention be given and more intensified efforts put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true civilized Christian society." President Stephen L Richards, speaking to us in our last general conference, said: "Tve always said that if two things in this Church were right everything else would be right. The Priesthood and the home are those two things.
EDITORIAL You, [Relief Society] of course, are chiefly responsible for one of them, or largely so, and you can help infinitely in the other one." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., addressing a Relief Society general conference in 1949, told the sisters: "The Relief Society is the handmaid of the Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of men." He prayed that God might give us the vision of the true homemaker, that we might be able to save by this course not only Zion, but the world. "And that is your destiny, and ours," said President Clark, "to save the world."
Pondering upon these statements of our prophets, we are led to exclaim, what a mighty and noble mission has been given to the women of the Church through Relief Society! The call to service in this Society comes not to one or two or the few, nor to any selected group, but to all women of the Church.
Membership in Relief Society should not be regarded as a matter of choice, but rather as one of obligation. Every Latter-day Saint woman, according to her circumstances and talents, has a responsibility toward the work of this organization. Sometimes, women are led to excuse themselves for inactivity in the Society.
Sometimes mothers with young children postpone the day of their affiliation, feeling affiliate when their children are small would work a_ hardship upon them and perhaps entail neglect of the children. President Lorenzo Snow, addressing the sisters at Saltair July 9, 1901, referred to this attitude saying, "It 'should lend to this that to. 'shall last. 77 might be thought by some that the labors connected with membership in the Relief Society would cause those 'sisters who belong to it to neglect their household duties. But this is not so. I will venture to say that the best wives and mothers and — the most efficient housekeepers among us are members of Relief Society." _ Through the years, thousands of women who have commenced acticity in the Society when their children were young have borne sincere and grateful testimony to the fact that their homes and their children have been boundlessly blessed and benefited through their Relief Society membership. The name of every Latter-day Saint woman should appear on the tolls of Relief Society, and each great work the best support of which she is capable. Out of this effort to meet her responsibility to this God-inspired and Priesthood-directed organization, there will come to her a spiritual grace, a womanly charm, a poise, an uprightness and stability of character, a development of her talents and abilities, a competence in the management of her home, a wisdom in guiding and directing her children, an understanding heart, a testimony of the truthfulness of the restored gospel that will be a deep and abiding satisfaction to her, and a comforting and sustaining influence as long as life As we have shared in the labors so will we most certainly share in the triumph of the work and in the eternal blessings which the Lord will give to his faithful daughters. —B. S. S. Yn Nlemoritam —~ Martha Sone Ballard NOVEMBER 7, 1873—JANUARY 12, 1952
Martha Jones Ballard, seventy-eight years old, passed away at the family home in Salt Lake City, January 12, 1952. She was the wife of Elder Melvin J. Ballard, a member of the Council of the Twelve, who died in 1939. Sister Ballard, a gracious and lovely woman, was the devoted mother of four sons and three daughters, a true homemaker, and a gifted _and willing helpmeet for her husband. For twenty years she served as Relief Society president in the Northwestern States Mission, while her husband presided over that mission. Her loving service among the sisters is recalled with gratitude. Y¥ © &* & All Her Ways Are Peace " Katherine F., Larsen Always they have such gentle hands, the ones Who are born to ease the world's encumbering load: Laving tired, dusty feet bruised by the road, Cooling brows set on fire by relentless suns; Gentle their voices, soothing to troubled hearts; Nourishing food with competence they prepare; Growing gay flowers, sewing with loving care, Mending torn places, healing the sick, their arts. From Rachel to Ruth who gleaned for Naomi's bread; From Sarah to Esther zealous for Israel's weal; Tirelessly they minister to the world's demands; Always the poor are helped, the hungry fed; Knowing all ways to bless, to soothe, to heal, Always they have such loving gentle hands. ~~ Announcing the April Special Short Story Issue The April 1952 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with three outstanding and experienced authors being represented. Look for these stories in April: "Father Was a Good Provider" by Inez Bagnell "The Long Day" by Maryhale Woolsey "A Frame for Happiness" by Ora Pate Stewart The April Magazine will also contain the second part of the fourpart story "Dear Conquest" by Deone Sutherland, and the fourth chapter of Beatrice R. Parsons serial "Uncertain Possession," as well as several homemaking articles and other features of particular interest to women. 
Notes 10 THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and ITlisston Relief Societies Since the last report, printed in the March 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, to and including December 1951. ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date of Appointment Bakersfield California Mission, Arlene P. Sutton May 27, 1951
Northern California Mission Portland Stake Northwestern States Mission Lethbridge Stake Columbia River Mona H. Kirkham December 10, 1951
November 2 5, 1951
East Lethbridge Fern R. Laycock Fresno Northern California Lyle J. Coombs May 13, 1951
Mission ) Mill Creek Cottonwood Stake Florence N. SingleFebruary 11, 1951 ton Bonneville Stake Minnie E. Anderson June 24, 1951
Hillside Stake | Monument Park Murray Santa Barbara Santa Monica Cottonwood Stake California Mission Inglewood Stake Esther K. Gunnell Gladys B. Carmack Odette P. Coulam February 20, 1951
March 18, 1951
July 1, 1951
Santa Rosa Berkeley Stake, Vera Maude Sorensen January 7, 1951
Northern California Mission Wilford East Mill Creek Stake Grace E. Berndt February 12, 1951
Willamette Portland Stake, Erma L. Snowberger December 3, 1951
Northwestern States Mission REORGANIZATIONS Missions Released President Appointed President Date of Appointment California Mary H. Stoddard LaPriel S. Bunker October 6, 1951
Canadian LaPriel R. Eyre Anna H. Toone September 21, 1951
East German _ Marta Ann B. Stover Lena W. Glaus May 16, 1951
Eastern States Betty Brown Helen Beth HenrichOctober 25, 1951 sen Hawaiian Irene P. Clissold Stella C. Nelson March 11, 1951
Near East Berta W. Piranian (Mission closed January 10, 1951) Netherlands Lillian D. Lillywhite (Died December 22, 1951)  180 REORGANIZATIONS (Continued ) Missions Released President _ Appointed President New England Gladys P. Young Hattie B. Maughan New Zealand Virginia D. Young Alice W. Ottley Samoan Francella C. Hale Myrtle L. W. Paul Southwest Indian Lillian D. Flake Thelma S. Buchanan Tongan Martha Elnora G. Joane W. Coombs Huntsman; Uruguayan Corraine §. Williams Afton K. Shreeve Western Canadian Holly W. Fisher Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Stakes Released President | Appointed President Big Cottonwood Grace E. Berndt (Name changed to Cottonwood Stake, February 12, 1951) 
Date of Appointment January 26, 1951
September 27, 1951
March 9g, 1951
Apmil 13, 1951
November 30, 1951
June 22, 1951
November 26, 1951
Date of Appointment Boise Maudell Harris Elnora T. Loveland June 3, 1951
Burley Bertha P. Hill Merna E. Marchant May 6, 1951
Carbon Florence L. Pace Maude Warren. January 7, 1951
Cottonwood Florence N. Singleton (Stake dissolved February 12, 1951) __ Cottonwood (Formerly Big Cottonwood) Oa J. Cannon February 11, 1951
Cottonwood Oa J. Cannon Madeleine P. Stevens July 9, 1951
Genevieve L. Anderson Alice W. Ottley Zettella W. Thurman East Los Angeles Ruby G. Choate East Mill Creek East Mill Creek Erma M. Dixon Alice W. Ottley East Rigby Lida Call | Virginia K. Campbell Ensign Alice B. Steinicke = Vivian R. McConkie Granite Ida Dean Elsie B. North Hyrum Harriet C. Leishman Mildred O. Norman Idaho Falls Venna H. Croft Mabel J. Hansen Kolob Gladys S. Boyer Grace C. Crandall Mesa Zelma Miller Evalyn B. White Moapa Lucille Earl Emma B. Solomon Nampa Ethel B. Andrew Alta Fuhriman Nevada Marietta T. Call Sylvia Johnson North Davis North Idaho Falls North Rexburg Oakland Pearl W. Burton May W. Andrus Hattie L. Rigby Hilda E. Perkins Oma E. Wilcox Ruby F. Olsen Adalena M. Withers Della W. Swensen Oneida Ida E. Evans Chloe M. Howell Palo Alto | Leila A. Gates Ethel M. Beckstrand Richland Lucile J. Erickson Pearl O. Clement Roosevelt Florence P. Nielson LaRue O. Nixon St. Joseph Hattie S. Shurtz Lavona Hoopes San Francisco DeLilah M. FuellenGladys R. Winter bach June 21, 1951
March 11, 1951
November 11, 1951
July 11, 1951
January 28, 1951 _ May 27, 1951
May 6, 1951
July 15, 1951
June 24, 1951
August 20, 1951
June 3, 1951
June 3, 1951
September., 2, 1951
September 9, 1951
May 13, 1951
July 22, 1951
April 1, 1951
June 10, 1951
September 16, 1951
July 15, 1951
August 12, 1951
December 9, 1951
June 20, 1951 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Released President. Southern Arizona Gladys E. Huish South Ogden South Salt Lake Reka V. Parker Della D. Walton South Summit Zella B. Johnston Sugar House Vauna S. Jacobsen Taylor Lisadore B. Crookston Timpanogos Carrol Wells Twin Falls Kathryn M. Merrill Washington Elese B. Lundberg Wayne Beatrice G. Brinkerhoff Weiser Appointed President 'Hilda M. P. Stutzman Erma V. Jacobs Verney J. Olson Luella W. Walker Laura R. Millard Margaret W. Rine Margaret J. Olpin Leah Kirk Mae A. Evans LaVell King' Naomi May Chandler Della W. Alder Patriarch Nellie B. Brenchley Frail he stands, with shoulders bent, Against the pulpit's strength he leans, And speaks to a silent throng, intent Upon his word, his voice serene. Eyes glance not at the gnarled fingers That find the pulpit's edge and rest, But seek his benign face and linger, While he imbues their minds with nghteousness. But yesterday these sinewy hands Anvil and a mighty hammer knew, The irons they forged as countless as the sands, A blacksmith's strength from these crude tools he drew. Hard the toil along the path he trod, But love of God and man sustained him then, And while he walked upnghtly before God, He shaped the iron of character in men. And strong these hands do yet remain © And strong his faith—eternal life his goal, The hands of a blacksmith he may claim, But his is a Patriarch's soul. Date of Appointment May 27, 1951
September 9, 1951
September 9, 1951
November 25, 1951
October 14, 1951
May 27, 1951
January 21, 1951
September 16, 1951
September 16, 1951
April 29, 1951
January 7, 1951