[Gardening — Food for the Soul by Pauline M. Henderson]

Gardening— Food for the Soul Pauline M. Henderson My garden is much, much more to me than a mere section of planted space around my home. It is, indeed, many things. It can be a release from pent-up tension and frustration. If I am upset or angry, that is when I like to cultivate my flower beds. As I strike my hoe into the earth, each weed. Is an enemy going down to destruction. By the time the bed is clear of weeds, the tension is gone, and I am able to face the problem—whatever it may be— with new calmness. Of all the activities involved in _ the making of a home, the planting of the garden is by. Far the most rewarding. I can spend hours cleaning the house, only to realize that in a few days I shall have to do it all over again. But the time I spend in the garden will show results for an entire season, perhaps even for years. GARDENING—FOOD FOR THE SOUL A garden can be just as surely a medium for self-expression as the painting of a picture or the writing of a poem. And no special talent _is needed. A garden asks only loving care, and it will flourish and bloom for you, whether you be rich or poor, obscure or famous. ~ There is a lesson in faith to be learned from plants.
Someone once said, "To tend a garden is to walk with God."
Certainly a wavering faith cannot help but be strengthened as one watches a seed grow from a tiny, inanimate object to a living, flourishing plant. I seldom witness this miracle without thinking, along with Robert Browning, that indeed, "God's in his heaven. All's right with the world." A garden teaches patience.
Growing things will not be hurried.
There is something so suggestive of timelessness about the processes of nature. I have often reflected, as I set out young plants, and felt' the rich dark earth between my fingers, for how many ages has this selfsame earth existed—how many more it will still exist! And I find my own petty troubles fading into relative insignificance. Once, when a particularly dark cloud was shadowing my life, and there seemed no hope that I would 197 ever again come through into the sunshine, I happened to glance from my window at the flowering peach tree I had planted some years before. It was in the full glory of spring bloom—a mass of delicate pink blossoms—breathtakingly beautiful. Suddenly, I found myself remembering how that same _ tree looked in mid-winter—bare, gray branches silhouetted against a stormy sky, stark and dreary, giving not the slightest hint of the beauty that in just a few short months would burst forth. And I felt a sudden rebirth of hope surge within me. I thought, just as that tree has come from ugliness to beauty, so will this darkness eventually give way to light. And I found new courage to go on. My garden is not the most beautiful in the neighborhood. To me it is not necessary that it should be. My grass is not the greenest nor my flowers the largest or most colorful. But I am content. Indeed, the flowers that I gather sometimes seem to me to be almost like an extra bounty—a sort of dividend from something that has already given me so much. No, I cannot agree with my neighbor that gardening is work.
Rather it is living in its truest sense.