[Sound, by Gene Romolo,]

Sound Gene Romolo Only the immobile lips of clay keep Ever silent.
With more potent hearing, We might hark to the greening grass repeat Strange, blithesome sound and silent appearing Night throb with palpitating light of stars; Discern rare beauty hidden in a word, Hear the dolorous murmuring of scars Left on a heart, and from a single bird Learn of magic in a fluttering wing, Capture echoing strains from a lost lyre, Catch soft music that the windflowers sing, Hear rhythm pulsing in a soul's white fire And 'listen to dawn's voice dispelling night Before it covers earth with gold-spun light. 
She Crowning Slouch Eva Willes Wangsgaard CVAJHERE did you get that hat? It's the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen!"

The words stung, but I tried to make light of them. "Oh, this old thing? I've had it for years."

"Well, you look perfectly awful in it. Why don't you get a decent hat?"

I mumbled something about not having time to shop and hurried away, my face burning with embarrassment. But as I walked home, her words kept echoing in my mind. Was I really such a sight? Had I become so careless about my appearance that I was actually offensive to look at?

That evening I stood before my mirror and took a good long look at myself. The hat was pretty awful, I had to admit. It had started life as a rather smart little number, but through the years it had lost its shape and most of its trimming. The brim drooped dejectedly, and there was a definitely shopworn look about the whole thing.

But it was comfortable, and it had seemed adequate for running errands and doing the marketing. I hadn't realized how I must look to other people.

The next day I went shopping for a new hat. I tried on dozens, it seemed, before I found one that looked right and felt comfortable. It was a bit more expensive than I had planned to spend, but I decided it was worth it.

When I wore my new hat to church the following Sunday, several people complimented me. "How nice you look!" "That's a lovely hat!" "You should wear blue more often—it's so becoming!"

The compliments were gratifying, but what impressed me most was the way I felt about myself. There's something about looking your best that gives you confidence and poise. I found myself walking straighter, holding my head higher.

It was a good lesson. We owe it to ourselves and to those around us to look as attractive as possible. A slovenly appearance not only creates an unfavorable impression on others, but it has a definitely depressing effect on our own spirits.

Of course, we can't all be beautiful, and we can't all afford expensive clothes. But we can all be clean and neat and appropriately dressed. We can choose colors that are becoming to us, and we can wear our clothes with an air of pride and self-respect.

It doesn't take a lot of money to be well-groomed. It does take care and thought and a little time. But the results are worth the effort—not only in the impression we make on others, but in the way we feel about ourselves.