& A Pinch Of Dust Is A Dollar Martha Robeson Wright ATHER relaxed in the hidebottomed chair and_ sighed with content. "Well, them 'cukes' are all salted. Apples are packed good so they won't bruise. Looks like good weather for tomorTow." "T do hope they don't spoil afore you get 'em there," Mother said, her fingers flying as she knit. "Sure Tom'll be enough help to take along? Indians 've been bad up there on the way to the mines so Elly was tellin' me when she passed by here t'other day." Father was easing off his shoes and wiggling his bare toes. He didn't wear socks until it got cold, and this was only late September. "Don't you worry none, Addie." "But oxen are so slow. You'd never get away from 'em." "Tl figger that out when the time comes. Indians want horses most— fast ones. They only bother wagon trains that look like they had plunder. My wagon won't look any too prosperous." Father took out a black book he always carried with him—a little black notebook that he always kept notes and accounts in for each day. He wet the stub of a pencil with his tongue and then carefully wrote. I knew he was writing down about the apples and cucumbers. I thought about our wagon and the oxen. They looked wonderful to me. The plodding oxen never seemed to mind the heavy yokes. Everything was riches compared to what we had had before. Since we had come to be tenants on Uncle Jeff's farm, life was wonderful. As far back as I could remember there had never been enough to eat, but here on the farm we had everything —even so much we could sell some. There were two cows and plenty of milk and butter for all. Father had turned out to be a good farmer even if he had not farmed before. There were beans, corn, and apple cider made from windfalls; there was vinegar made from beets. 'There were so many apples and cucumbers this year that even when Mother made big crocks of pickles and apple butter and had the roofs all covered with quarters of apples drying, there was still so much left that Father was taking it to the mines to trade. My three sisters were asleep and there was just Mother, Father and me in the room. Mother would have plenty of company with the girls if I went with Father. But he had not asked me to go with him. He was going to take Cousin Tom. I wanted to go. "T could help as much as Tom and lot's more," I said grumpily. "Tm almost as big as he is, even if I ain't but twelve. Leastwise, I'm as tall." Father put away the little black book, turned and looked at me. "Jt ain't what you could do, Elizabeth. It just ain't no part of the country for a gitl—specially a purty one." He winked at Mother. "T'm not purty!" I got a bit cross for I liked being strong and husky like a boy and having Father call me his boy. "Red hair an freckles ain't purty," I added sulkily. Page 525 526 "They's some might think so," said Mother, as she turned the toe of the sock she was knitting. "Your hair ain't red exactly," she stopped and knit for a few seconds. "It's more like the color of a new gold piece I saw once." Then she knit faster and added, "You give up that notion of goin' with your father, Betsy. I need you here." "The girls can do all right," I protested, but I knew it would not do any good to talk any more about it. When Father said, "Elizabeth!" the thing was past arguing. He was going to leave before sunup. I made up my mind that I was going and that I would not be found till it was too late to make me go back. Cousin Tom came in. He was twenty. He was not much taller than I, but he was thick and strong. His hair was as black and straight as an Indian's. "Everything's all fixed, Uncle Ned," he said. "Both barrels so they won't roll?" "Yes, sir. Got the tarpaulin over em."? "Good. Well, guess we'd better get to bed." Father stretched his arms wide. "Ho-hum." Mother put her knitting in the bag that hung on the back of her chair. "Dear me, Ned," she said. "T don't like... I declare, I don't like your goin' up there to trade. Couldn't you sell around here?" "Everybody's got 'cukes' an' apples 'round here." — Father patted her shoulder, "Don't fret, Addie, nothin's goin' to happen—time's is gettin' easier." GOT up before the others the next morning and put on a pair of Tom's work overalls, an old shirt and a cap that Father had brought 

 

 

 "T can't, In supposed to be a boy." "Well, we'll all go in." We bought earrings for Mother and bright new calic for dresses and four hair combs for Selma and the three girls—three of the combs just alike so the girls wouldn't quarrel over whose was the prettiest. I tried not to look too interested. Father bought five straw shaker bonnets all the same size. We girls could grow into them. We carried the stuff out to the wagon and laid it on the tarpaulin, then rolled up the tarpaulin so it looked just like a roll of canvas in the wagon beside our bedrolls and the empty barrels. Father bought supplies and two money belts for him and Tom to put around their waists to carry the dust in. "You petter stay de night," Mr. Jenson.. "Thanks kindly," said Father, "but we gotta get back. We will some other time." "Injuns been bad lately. They'd steal de skin off you. Some white men don't like to work for gol' dust eeder. Pe careful," admonished Mr. Jenson., said F, were feeling good and got more than half way home when we met the Indians.- It was just after we had broken camp when a bunch of them came riding over the hill. "Get that hair out of sight," commanded Father, and I was so scared I just pushed it up under the cap and didn't take time to pin it firmly. The Indians came nearer and looked us over. 'The leader got off his horse and approached Father. They talked in the Indian language for some time, and Father showed him the empty barrels—even had A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR him smell them. Finally, the chief nodded and got back on his horse. Father started the oxen, and we went slowly away from the band of Redmen who watched us go. "That was "close," Father muttered under his breath. I was hot and sweating from fright. 'he heavy cap itched my head; and now that the danger was over, I pushed it back of my forehead, and one of my long braids fell out. "Get that hair back," Father said sharply, but it was too late. The Indians came riding toward us gesticulating and excited. "Damage is done," said Father. "The likes of your hair ain't been seen in these parts. 'Take your hat off." My braids hanging long and shining in the sun, the breeze stirring my hair, made Tom say, "Your hair looks like fire." Fathér had stopped the oxen and sat looking at the Indian who did the talking. At length Father turned to me, "He wants to take you with him. He says the medicine man told them a sign of happiness and good hunting would come from the sun-god. He thinks you're it." "We gotta think quick," said Tom. "Maybe they'd just take the hair," I said. "Cut it off?" Youd think I'd struck Father. I nodded. "All we can do is see." The chief seemed to like the idea and held out his big knife to Father. Father said, "Steady, Elizabeth," as he cut one braid off, then the other. When both braids were in his hands, he gave them solemnly to the chief. Then he returned the knife. The 529 Indians looked like they were going to kiss the braids. My head felt queer. Everything seemed to be going around. After the Indians had gone, Father gave me a drink of water. I cried for a long time. "Guess you got your fill of this trip, didn't you?" said Father. VERYBODY was. Surprised to see us at home. They'd given us up for having been massacred by the Indians. 'Tom was surprised to see Selma there with Mother. Selma gave a shriek and ran_to 'Tom and hung on to him so tight that he lifted her off the ground. "We thought you were scalped by the Indians," said Mother weeping with joy. "I could just see Betsy's beautiful long hair a hanging on to some Indian's belt." I gulped, but I couldn't say anything. I just jerked off my cap and stood there. Mother let out a shriek and clutched Father. "My poor little girl! They scalped her!' We all began to cry, and it set up an awful din. Father began to get mad. "She ain't scalped. It'll grow out. It's her own fault for comin' along." When Father told Mother. All about it, she dried her eyes at once. "Serves you right, Betsy," she said in a firm voice. "It's a just punishment. You'll look like a boy now all right." "All come into the house," said Father, and he and Tom took in all the things we had brought home. Father handed one of the bonnets to Selma. "For the bride," he said, with a little bow. Selma blushed and said, been asked outright yet." Then Tom got red, and said, "T "LT ain't 530 was waiting to see if you liked that Taggart better'n me." "I knew I didn't the minute I heard you was dead by the Indians," said Selma, and she blushed fit to kill when we all screamed with laughing. Father said, "No, he's alive. You won't change your mind though, I hope." I began to feel proud that I had been through that trip, for the girls were looking at me like I was something wonderful. I knew I could get them to do anything I wanted all winter, just by offering to tell them all that had happened. Father was sitting in his chair writing in his little black book. Mother, who had been shaking her head to make the new earrings dangle, stopped to say, " 

 presents are... Purty, but it's you:. It's you bein' back safe that counts." -Father cleared his throat and looked out the window a minute. "Tradin's getting soft," he said. ""T didn't have to dicker about them apples and 'cukes' at all.. They set their own price—high, too. I'm takin' this dust and buyin' me some merchandise, and I'm goin' to start a store. When you don't have to dicker with folks, then its time to start a store. Tom, you can be my clerk." "Yes, sir," said Tom. That is how my Father started the first general store in our part of the country. ~~ GG.