To further clinch childish impressions, the Pri- NOTES TO THE FIELD mary is initiating poster projects on the "Word of Wisdom," emphasizing clean living. One attractive poster reads: ""Wormy apples fall before the harvest." 'This example of what the Primary is doing indicates the fine program that is planned by that organization to assist in the campaign. Mutual Improvement Association programs are laden with excellent materials and inspirational intrigues, to charm, win, and keep our sons and daughters "clean and unspotted." Special attention is called to a folder prepared and sent out by the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 'The material is of special interest to our girls. Girls are asked to meet together in informal groups during the summer months to discuss this material. Mothers should encourage their daughters to keep this assignment. Special lessons are also planned for Gleaners; for example, the lesson for November, 1941, "I the Lord Give Unto Them a Promise," and the lesson for December, "Rally Round the Standard Bearer." In May, 1942, stake rallies of M Men and Gleaners, duplicates of this year's June Conference rally, are to be held. The rules for basketball players found in the M Men's Hand Book are excellent and should be read by mothers. If there is an Explorer in the family, mothers will be interested in reading about "Healthmen" from the Supplement to Log of the Explorer Trail, No. 10, to learn the requirements for a health merit badge. Explorers are to commit to memory the "Word of Wisdom." The Aaronic Priesthood project 543 for 1941 and 1942 deserves special attention. Every member of that order of the Priesthood is to prepare and give a five-minute talk in some Church gathering on the "Word of Wisdom." The Church Department of Education has carefully worked out units of study on the non-use of alcohol and also on the non-use of tobacco as regular parts of its course of study. These have been revised and enlarged this summer. It is also preparing a transcript, one side of which presents scientific facts relative to alcohol and the other side tells how the non-use of alcohol contributes to happy, joyous living. This is to be used on sound machines with pictures. The Sunday School has prepared an interesting and instructive film entitled, "Out of the Game," with a transcript which supports it. One side of the transcript is the story of a boy who was "out of the game" because of the use of tobacco. The other side is a sequel to this and is the testimonial of great athletes and coaches on the benefits of abstinence from alcohol and tobacco. The General Campaign Committee is anxious to extend its efforts to the boys in the army camps. When writing to their sons, mothers might ask them to be alert for anything that the Church might be doing to help protect them from temptation. All projects in the interest of non- 'use of alcohol and tobacco have teceived careful and thoughtful consideration and merit the heartiest cooperation of the mothers of the Church.