Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. IX Character Education N a program of home reading it is important to include something on the serious subject of character education. Although character education is a community problem, with responsibility resting upon the school and the church, it is also a home problem; what we become depends to a greater degree 'upon our homes than upon any other agency. The home has no more important function. Harry Emerson Fosdick says: "With the many overhead schemes for the world's salvation, everything rests on integrity and driving power in personal character." Since example is more effective than precept, parents themselves must be what it is desirable that their children become. But that is not enough. To do the job effectively we should become acquainted with the methods and channels by which character may be developed. The goal of all moral education is summed up in the commandments of Jesus: ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God... And thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.... On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." But this is theory, and the practical method of working it out is our responsibility. We speak glibly of the term "character." It may be difficult to define, but certainly the test of character is the ability to live up to one's ideals. It is the life within that is of vital Page 550 importance, not the life our friends know. All the talent and gifts in the world will not make a man of one if one has not character. It is not always found in beautiful homes. It is even possible to have a beautiful home life without developing the essentials of character. Mr. Frank C. Sharp has written a book entitled, Education for Character, in which he discusses the aims of moral education and some of the methods of attaining those aims. "Children must be educated for the larger life," he says, "to help one's neighbor with love. No matter how attractive or gifted a child may be, moral education has not reached its goal until there have been adopted principles which enable the possessor to stand on_ his own feet, regardless of what others may do." A child must be taught to say "no when his whole soul cries out yes and to say yes when his soul cries no." When he can do that he has learned to stand alone. A notable example of what can be accomplished by skillful effort is found in the story of the great teacher Fenelon and his pupil the Duke of Burgundy. Fenelon was entrusted by Louic XIV with the education of this boy, his grandson. The young Duke was headstrong, at the slightest provocation showing a violent temper. Fenelon was a man of rare ability and intelligence. When the SOME LITERARY FRIENDS boy showed fits of temper, his teacher picked up his playthings and walked away, leaving him alone until his conscience mastered him. He gave him simple food and exercise in the open air, but most important of all he made his study so agreeable that he entered the schoolroom almost as readily as he left it. This developed in him a hunger for knowledge which was to fit him for his position as ruler of his people. To strengthen the boy's judgment, they read history and discussed the faults of rulers. The prince was always asked to give his opinion of the conduct of each king. His moral lessons came first from fables and fairy tales. From here they went to history and from history to politics, which prepared the boy for the throne. By this method, Fenelon completely changed the character of this child, correcting his faults and making of him a person who believed in the principles of truth and justice and who loved the happiness which comes from a sense of duty well done. In this story we have demonstrated two important factors in the building of character—the character of the teacher, which is the most important, and a knowledge of the methods and channels by which character may be developed. "Conduct," says Mr. Sharp, "is determined by the influence of contagion as by nothing else in the world." R. SHARP discusses punishment and says that if properly administered it is not brutal. It tends to awaken in the child a sense of the seriousness of his act. He must be made to feel that he has trampled upon the rights of others, then he 551 may feel truly repentant. "Moral habits should not be merely outer conformity because the public demands it, but rather an inner loyalty to the moral ideal.... When we conform because we have to, we are likely to react against it when we acquire freedom." When athletes go back to the habit of smoking when the training season is over, it is apparent that they abstained to keep a place on the team, not from any moral ideal. Conflict with opposing forces is always involved in moral training. It is met at home and at school. Children must learn that much of the work of the world is drudgery, and it is their job to have enthusiasm for the tasks they dislike as well as for the tasks they enjoy. James M. Barrie says, "The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes, but rather in liking what one has to do." Parents sometimes question the advisability of girls spending time on mathematics; but though it may never be used in life, the fact that they have met an intellectual difficulty and mastered it will give them strength to meet other difficulties in life. "The world's fundamental need is integrity or trustworthiness in_ its many forms," and yet cheating in our schools has become so common that it is a real problem. It will never be solved until we have created among our students what the author calls a "moral revulsion" against dishonesty. He lists the fundamental aims of moral education to be a knowledge of what is right, the desire to do right, and the ability to act right. We do not always do right when we know what is right. Mere 552 knowledge is not enough unless we can develop along with it a love of right. This can be developed in precisely the same way as a love of literature or art is developed—by proper criticism, which in literature means studying style, character drawing, and other things unnoticed by the untrained reader. It is the same with morals. Without training we fail to see life as it is. Only in times of death and tragedy do we seem to see life in its reality. When we have learned that "murder, theft, lying, breach of contract, injustice, are injuries to others, and that carelessness, laziness, want of pity, lack of public spirit fail to make others happier and better," we have taken an important step in good conduct. Thomas Arnold once _ wrote, "When I look around upon boys and men, there seems to me some one point of quality which distinguishes really noble persons from ordinary ones. It seems to me to be moral thoughtfulness." This can be developed only by a study of human life. ISTORY, literature, and biography are important channels through which we may study human life and through which ethics may be taught. History teaches us that there are both good and bad men in the world, that "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Athens gained her independence and liberty, but when she denied it to other groups over which she had power, her fall came. "The fall of Athens and of Napoleon were due to the want of integrity, justice, and humanity," all three of which are essential to moral character. " 

 personalities which exhibit strength of character and devotion to duty arouse our admiration, thus awakening the desire to act in like manBuCi® "We: "Development of character must grow out of the story of the race. It can be done by good teaching— in other words, vivid presentation and a scientific spirit, the spirit which seeks for cause and effects. The best teaching involves strict adherence to truths. But truth involves balance." For example, "An accurate picture of Carlyle's quarrels with his wife is not a true impression of his life as a whole, but a false one." The parent or teacher without this sense of proportion will not accomplish her purpose. "Literature is more concrete than history, arousing more admiration and enthusiasm. The failure of Macbeth brings the truth of the fact that the wage of sin is death more effectively than the annals of the fall of Athens. For the supreme picture of black pessimism yoked with the possession of power, wealth, assurance of fame, and bits of colored glass for which the average man will barter his soul, we must go, not to pages of history, but to the last act of this play." The power to put oneself in the place of others lies at the very foundation of the moral life. Good literature does this very thing. "Biography combines many advantages of history and literature. It, more than any other study, can lead us to realize that right doing involves not the weakness of the will, but, on the contrary, strength, and that, as in Lincoln, strength is compatible with warm affections and a charity and power of forgiveness that may SOME LITERARY FRIENDS make their possessor loved and revered even by his enemies in defeat. It may train us to -recognize how difficult it is to read the motives of men and then pass judgment upon them. "H{ASTORY, literature and biography are valuable, but they cannot provide sufficient material for training in the power to distinguish right from wrong and how to deal with temptations.... The Golden Rule can be employed to untie many ethical knots.... It is the effect we seek to produce upon human welfare that determines whether an act is right or wrong. "What, then, are the values of life, and how can they be attained?... Boys and girls are apt to ignore fundamental things; to underestimate the value of some and overestimate others. We must make them, somehow, feel that it pays to resist evil, to stand for what is right, to be industrious and to meet the problems of life with courage. Satisfaction in life has a beneficial effect upon character, tending to develop a kindly feeling toward one's fellow men; dissatisfaction and disappointment tend to produce feelings of self-pity, envy, and hatred. The pursuit of the least satisfying goods— comfort, social position, 'success,' wealth, et cetera—is the source of the greater part of wrongdoing in the world. The most valuable things in life are non-competitive. The possession of some of the most precious things is open to man in proportion as he is pure in heart and unselfish in deed."