Work-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 2 Judging Qualities in Materials (Tuesday, November 11, 1941) FOR many years the study and buying of textiles was comparatively easy with only the four major fibers—cotton, linen, silk, and wool —to be recognized. They were usually found alone and not in combination with other fibers. Today, however, we wonder what the coming years will bring with the hundreds 'of new fibers, mixtures, and finishes being offered in clothing materials, the most prominent of which is rayon. In order to judge materials and to choose those best suited to one's needs, it is necessary to have an understanding of the factors affecting price and durability and a knowledge of the various fibers and the type of care required by each to make them render maximum service. Price alone does not indicate how well a piece of material will wear, but if the price runs below or above a certain amount, one should question the cause. For this reason, it is well to know the usual price for reliable fabrics. As a general rule, new-style goods are more expensive because of the risk involved in dealing with them. Many expensive materials are not durable but have been made for appearance only, strength being sacrificed to do so. However, in the purchase of any article, the amount of money to be expended is one of the governing factors in selection, Width of material is an important factor in the price of any material. Often a wide fabric is more economical than a narrow one, because it cuts to better advantage. Simple habits and tests will always be of help to the consumer. Of these, the first is to read any labels attached to the material, any labeling on the selvage of the material, and any labeling on the bolt around which the material is wound. If any terms are not understood, ask the clerk for information concerning them. Watch carefully for knots or defective places in the weave; watch for soiled edges along the fold or on the ends of the bolt. Hold material to the light to detect thick and thin places. 'The more even the yarns and the more balanced the thread count (the same number of lengthwise and crosswise threads) the more wear one can usually expect. Very loose weaves or materials with long floats will catch and pull easily. Some materials may have heavy cords running through them which will result in a splitting of the material. The strength of the weave may be tested by scraping the fingernail over the cloth or by running a tuck in the cloth with a pin and pulling away from the pin on both sides of the tuck. The threads should not separate easily if the weave is strong. Another test is to grasp the cloth between the thumb and finger Page 567 568 of each hand with about an inch of space between the thumbs. Press downward and outward and note whether the cloth stretches out of shape easily or is firm. Sometimes the amount of starch sizing may be determined by rubbing the material between the hands or tearing to see if starch flies out. Examination of the yarn will often tell something about the wearing quality of the cloth. Untwisted yarns catch and pull out. Tightlytwisted yarns usually produce a fabric that can stand hard wear; however, they may become shiny. Fancy yams are often made with knots, nubs, or other irregularities. The fabric may look strong, but may catch and wear off. 'To know the character of the yarn, the cloth should be raveled both ways and the yarn untwisted. If the fabric is napped, rub it between the balls of the fingers. If the nap rubs away, the material will not give satisfactory wear. Many materials have finishing processes applied to them to increase their value or to decrease the amount of care that is needed; for example, sanforizing to prevent - shrinking; vitalizing, tebilizing, or martinizing to make materials crease-resistant; duralizing or bellmanizing to give permanent stiffness. All of these and other processes which render materials color fast, needlized, moisture-repellent, fireproof, air conditioned, mildew, moth and bacteria proof are being applied to materials. Many of these finishes are permanent, but others wash out with the first washing. Watch for information concerning each. If the finish is guaranteed permanent and proves ~ 

 

 not to be, return the merchandise. Many manufacturers are placing such information on the label as thread count, tensile strength, and resistance to abrasion. 'This is a distinct help since thread count alone does not determine the wearing quality of materials. "(Guaranteed high quality," "complete satisfaction," "perfect workmanship," "preshrunk," and "color fast" tell little. "Guaranteed all wool," "guaranteed not to shrink," and "guaranteed fast color" are more definite, but not definite enough. All wool does not tell the quality of the wool, nor fast color whether fast to wear, sun, laundering, or perspiration. Better labels are those which say, "Sanforized: guaranteed not to shrink more than one percent," or "guaranteed sun and tub fast." Labels mean mote if the manufacturer's name is attached. Read labels, analyze materials, and buy those which best fit your needs. If you want a cheap material, buy it, but do not pay as high a price for it as if it were good material. Know as nearly as possible what you are getting and the care it will need to give maximum value. Suggested Activities 1. Bring to meeting as many kinds ot material as possible. Know the price of each if possible. Analyze the materials as to wearing qualities. Compare the various prices charged for the same kind of materials. See if you can determine whether one piece should wear better than another. Can you account for the difference in price? 'Try simple tests to see if they help you to judge values. 2. Bring labels found on materials.