lNlisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 2 (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) O MY FATHER, THOU THAT DWELLEST O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! When shall I regain 'Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside; In my first primeval childhood Was I nurtured near Thy side? For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet ofttimes a secret something Whispered, "You're a stranger here'; And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere. I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? All you sent me forth to do, os With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. HIS poem, you will find, is very different from that which we considered in our last lesson. It is less imaginative and more doctrinal. It is, however, a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints everywhere, especially at funerals. This is because —Eliza R. Snow. Of the idea it expresses of the closeness of our relationship to God. ELIZA ROXEY SNOW, like Parley P. Pratt, came of a long line of American ancestors. She was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, BirkPage 5/9 Then, at length, when I've completed. 580 shire County, Massachusetts. 'Two years later the Snows moved to Mantua, Portage County, Ohio. Before the family embraced Mormonism they were Baptists, and their home was the gathering place of many intellectual persons thereabouts. It was in this religious and cultural atmosphere that Eliza, with her brother Lorenzo, was reared. It seems that the mother and one of her daughters were the first of the family to join the Latter-day Saint Church. By this time the Saints were gathering to Kirtland, in Ohio, and to Zion, in Missouri. In 1835, when she was thirty-one years of age, Eliza, after carrying on her own investigations, changed her residence to Kirtland, and here she met the Prophet and was baptized. From then on until her death at an advanced age she shared the joys and sorrows of her people—in Ohio, in Missouri, in Illinois, and in Utah. At Kirtland and Nauvoo she taught school. She was the first general secretary of the Relief Society, which was organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. In Utah, "she held the position of president of all the women's organizations rather more by common consent than appointment until 1880 when President John Taylor segregated the different societies and appointed and set her apart as president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she filled until her death." (Relief Society Handbook, page 114.) Sister Snow traveled extensively, not only in the United States, but in Europe and the near East as well. In 1872 she made a special trip to Palestine, and visited such nations as Egypt, Greece, Italy, Germany, France, and England. It was on 

 

 this tour that she presented a copy of the Book of Mormon to Queen Victoria of England, who received it very graciously. ITH Sister Snow literary work _ was a sort of vocation, though she did not earn her living at it. She wrote prose as well as poetry, but verse was her chief form of literary expression and the form in which she excelled. One of her prose works was a history of the Snow family, with particular attention to her brother Lorenzo's life, for he not only became one of the Twelve Apostles, but also the fifth President of the Church. She produced songs, hymns, and nartative verse. At least eighteen of her poems were set to music, mostly by our own composers. With the exception of Parley P. Pratt and William W. Phelps, of whom we shall speak in another lesson, Eliza R. Snow has the greatest number of compositions in our new hymn book. It is not difficult to give a heading to each of the four stanzas of "O My Father." 'The first states the fact of our pre-earth life; the second suggests the reason for earth life; the third tells how we came to know the meaning of the word "Father" as applied to God, with a hint of a heavenly mother, too; and the last expresses a yearning for a reunion with the heavenly parents after death. THE idea of our relationship to God is the heart of revealed religion. Everything, in one way or another, stems from this relationship.