[Vol28 | September 1941 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Home Accident Cannon]
Wells  Cannon,  former  member  of 
the  General  Board  of  Relief  Societv, 
and  appearing  in  the  Kdid  Socieh 
Magazine,  February,  1915,  page  51, 
and  on  other  articles  dealing  with 
this  activity  and  appearing  in  the 
Relief  Society  Magazine^  October, 
1940,  and  in  The  Imptovement  Era^ 
March,  1941,  page  142.  Participating 
in  the  musicale  was  the  Chevy  Chase 
Ward  choir,  with  Ann  Pearson,  di- 
rector, and  Frances  Berrett,  accom- 
panist,  and  vocal  and  instrumental 
soloists,  Afton  Margetts,  Ellen  Neil- 
son  Barnes  and  Betty  Langlois.  The 
invocation  was  offered  by  Louise.  C. 
Bennion,  then  president  of  the 
Washington  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Hyrum  Stake  (Hyrum,  Utah) 
npHE  following  report  of  the  ob- 
servance of  the  ninety-ninth  an- 
niversary of  Relief  Society  on  March 
17  by  the  two  Relief  Societies  in 
Wellsville  was  submitted  by  Bessie 
H.  Jones,  president  of  Wellsville 
Second  Ward:  ''We  were  hostesses 
to  our  sister  ward,  Wellsville  First 
Ward.  All  appointments  were  car- 
ried out  in  our  Relief  Societv  colors, 
BANQUET  HELD  MARCH  17,  1941,  TWO  WELLSVILLE  WARDS

558 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST,  1941 
SINGING  MOTHERS  OF  WELLSVILLE  SECOND  WARD  WHO  PRESENTED 
OPERETTA,  ''FRIENDSHIP,  OR  IN  MOZART'S  TIME" 
blue  and  gold.  Our  program  was 
furnished  by  the  Singing  Mothers, 
including  presentation  by  a  group 
from  the  Second  Ward  of  an 
operetta,  entitled,  'Friendship,  or  in 
Mozart's  Time/  A  banquet,  under 
the  able  direction  of  our  refreshment 
committee,  was  served  to  210.  Toasts 
were  given  to  old  and  new  mem- 
bers." Minnie  A.  Miller  is  the  Hy- 
rum  Stake  Relief  Society  president. 
Nevada  Stake  (Ely,  Nevada) 
f^OPE  BROADBENT,  first  coun- 
selor and  stake  centennial  chair- 
man, has  submitted  the  following 
details  of  an  activity  planned  to  serve 
both  as  a  memorial  to  the  recently 
retired  stake  Relief  Society  presi- 
dent, Anna  M.  Aljets,  and  as  a  nu- 
cleus for  future  stake  and  ward  an- 
niversary programs  on  March  17, 
and  for  the  coming  centennial  ob- 
servances in  1942.  The  plan  for  this 
activity  developed  from  the  general 
desire  of  the  wards  to  join  in  pre- 
senting a  token  of  appreciation  to 
Mrs.  Aljets,  from  her  interest  in  the 
preparation  and  preservation  of  the 
Relief  Society  histories  of  the  wards, 
and  from   the  desire  of  the  stake 
board  to  have  recorded  the  impres- 
sive and  beautiful    faith-promoting 
stories  of  Relief  Society  women.  The 
plan  developed  by  the  stake  board 
was  for  the  wards  to  prepare  two 
loose-leaf  scrapbooks— one  for  pres- 
entation to  Mrs.  Aljets  and  one  to  be 
retained  by  the  stake    board,    and 
added  to  periodically.    In  arranging 
for  each  ward  to  prepare  its  individ- 
ual pages  for  these  two  scrapbooks, 
the  stake  board  also  suggested  that 
each  ward  prepare  and  continue  to 
preserve  its  own  ward  Relief  Society 
history.    The  stake  board  provided 
each  of  the  wards  with  pages  11/2 
inches  by  1 5%  inches  in  size  for  use 
in  preparing  their  individual  materi- 
al.   The  tentative  plan  of  contents 
outlined  by  the  stake  board  for  each 
ward  was  as  follows:  (1)  Organiza- 
tion—date of  organization  and  reor- 
ganizations, pictures  and  names  of 
officers,   biographical    histories, 
achievements  and   personal   stories; 
(2)    History— relating  to  the  ward 
Relief    Society    both    before    and

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  559 
after  inclusion  in  the  Nevada  Magazine,  October,  1938,  page  683, 
Stake;  (3)  Activity  —  such  as  forming  the  introduction.  A  beau- 
successful  parties,  Magazine  and  tiful  verse  v^as  selected  for  tribute 
membership  activities,  bazaars,  din-  to  each  president,  portraying  her  out- 
ners,  beautification  and  other  spe-  standing  virtue,  followed  by  an  ap- 
cial  activities  sponsored  by  the  ward  propriate  hymn,  also  emphasizing 
Relief  Society,  to  be  accompanied  this  virtue,  sung  as  a  solo.  During 
by  drawings  and  pictures;  (4)  Wei-  the  musical  tribute,  a  lovely  corsage 
fare  work— both  Relief  Society  ac-  made  by  the  stake  work-and-business 
tivities,  as  such,  and  assistance  by  leader  was  presented  to  each  presi- 
the  Society  in  the  interest  of  the  dent  in  turn. 
Church  welfare  program;  (5)  Remi-         xhe  audience,   which    filled   the 
niscence— including     references     to  auditorium,     was     profoundly     im- 
visits,  experiences,  and  associations  pressed  by  the  beauty  and  appropri- 
with  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  ateness  of  the  program.    Representa- 
workers;  (6)  Faith-promoting  stories  tives  were  present  from  all  but  three 
—collected  especially  from  the  older  of  the  most  distant  branches,  some 
members  of  the  Society  and  signed  of  the  women  having  traveled  over 
personally  by  them  wherever  pos-  200  miles  to  attend.     The  success 
sible.  and  value  of  this  project  are  sum- 
The    wards    adopted    the    plan  marized  in  the  following  words  from 
wholeheartedly,  using  their  own  in-  Mrs.  Broadbent's  statement:   ''Cer- 
genuity  in  collecting  and  arranging  tainly  the  compilation  of  our  scrap- 
the  material,  with   the  result  that  book  histories  measured  up  to  our 
each  ward  record  for  this  scrapbook  expectations.    Never  have  we  expe- 
represented  the  work  of  many  indi-  rienced  such  united  effort  and  such 
viduals  and  included  stories,  experi-  deep  joy  and  satisfaction  in  the  re- 
ences,  original  verse,  songs,  pictures  suits  of  our  efforts.    The  scrapbook 
and  illustrations.  is  lovely  to  look  at,  but  beneath  the 
The    completed    and    assembled  appearance  is  a  heart  and  soul  that 
scrapbook  for  Mrs.  Aljets  was  pre-  stirs  the  reader  to  great  depths  be- 
sented  to  her  on  the    evening    of  cause  it  represents  the  life  of  the 
March  8,  1941,  at  a  well-arranged  Nevada  Stake  Relief  Society  up  to 
program  honoring  all  past  officers  of  the  present  time.     Before  we  start 
the  Nevada  Stake    Relief    Society,  on  the  second  century  in  the  life 
when   special   tribute  was  paid   to  of  the  Relief  Society,  we  have  the 
each  of  the  three  past  presidents  and  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  our  rec- 
a  pledge  of  support  was  given  to  the  ord  up  to  date  is  well  written  and 
present  president,  Mrs.    Nellie    C.  preserved." 
Brunson.  /,v.  •        t  i  i    n 
nr>,  ..     ..       r  .1      .    1    .     .  Weiser  Stake  (Weiser,  Idaho) 
Ihe  contmuity  or  the  tribute  to  \  ^  / 
the  past  officers  was  adapted  from  T^HE  accompanying  picture  shows 
"My  Relief  Society  Tapestry,"  by  the  cast  of  the  pageant,  'The 
Mary  Grant  Judd,  Relief  Society  Gate  Beautiful,"  which  was  pub- 
Magazine,  March,  1940,  page  165,  lished  in  the  Relief  Society  Maga- 
with  the  poem, 'Tour  Tapestry,"  by  zine,  April,  1935,  page  226,  and 
Lucy    H.    Nielson,    Relief    Society  which  was  the  main  feature  of  the

560 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST,  1941 
CAST  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  ANNIVERSARY  PAGEANT,  WEISER  WARD 
B 
Relief  Society  anniversary  program 
presented  by  the  Weiser  Ward,  of 
which  Laura  C.  Dorius  is  president. 
Musical  numbers  and  a  talk  on  the 
history  of  Relief  Society  were  other 
features  of  the  program,  which  was 
followed  by  a  dance.  The  Weiser 
Ward  was  honored  in  having  Edith 
Brown,  Weiser  Stake  Relief  Society 
president,  as  the  reader  for  the 
pageant. 
Beaver  Stake  (Beaver,  Utah) 
E  R  T  H  A  T.  SWINDLE- 
HURST,  stake  secretary-treasur- 
er, sent  the  following  report:  ''On 
June  17,  1941,  our  stake  held  one 
of  the  most  successful  spring  con- 
ferences we  have  ever  had  in  Beaver 
Stake.  Each  ward  was  well  repre- 
sented to  receive  the  general  instruc- 
tions given.  At  the  beginning  of 
1941,  the  stake  adopted  the  follow- 
ing slogan:  '100  Percent  Visiting 
Teaching  in  Each  Ward  of  Beaver 
Stake  This  Year.'  We  are  happy 
to  report  that  up  to  date  we  have 
reached  our  goal. 
"One  of  our  board  members,  Mae 
C.  White,  wrote  a  pageant  depicting 
the  history  of  the  organization  of  the 
Relief  Society  work  in  Beaver  Stake. 
This  was  presented  to  the  176  per- 
sons present,  and  it  was  thoroughly 
enjoyed  by  all.  We  also  prepared 
a  display  of  pioneer  relics,  and  at 
the  close  of  the  program  light  re- 
freshments were  ser\^ed  to  all."  Lacy 
R.  Nowers  is  Beaver  Stake  Relief 
Society  president. 
California  Mission 
(Los  Angeles,  California) 
jyilNNIE  A.  BLOOD,  president 
of  the  Relief  Societies  in  the 
California  Mission,  forwarded  a 
very  interesting  report  of  the  ob- 
servance of  the  ninety-ninth  anni- 
versary of  Relief  Society  in  the 
Bakersfield  Relief  Society,  written 
by  Millie  M.  Houldridge,  president, 
from  which  the  following  excerpts 
are  quoted: 
"Enclosed  is  a  picture  of  the 
March  17  celebration  of  the  Bakers- 
field  Relief  Society.  The  ladies  are 
seated  at  tables  decorated  to  repre- 
sent a  particular  month.  As  a  feature 
of  the  program,  a  speaker  at  each 
table  told  why  the  particular  month

NOTES   FROM  THE  FIELD 
561 
represented  by  that  table  was  fa 
nious.  The  table  for  March— Relief 
Soeiety  anniversary  month— was  the 
special  table.  The  person  whose 
birthday  was  nearest  March  17 
opened  gifts  brought  to  the  Relief 
Society,  and  the  person  whose  birth- 
da\-  was  next  nearest  cut  the  large 
blue  and  gold  birthday  cake  seen  in 
the  foreground. 
''Our  very  special  guest,  seated  in 
the  center  front,  was  Hannah  Miller, 
who  died  a  week  later,  on  March  24, 
in  her  ninety-seventh  year.  She  was 
born  in  Wales,  November  21,  1844, 
and  moved  to  Australia  when  quite 
voung,  her  father  having  been  sent 
there  by  the  King  on  a  mining  ex- 
pedition. When  she  was  ten  j^ears 
of  age  she  was  baptized  in  the  ocean. 
Two  years  later  she  and  her  brother 
were  sent  with  a  group  of  Latter-day 
Saints  to  the  United  States,  landing 
on  the  West  Coast  and  staying  in 
San  Bernardino,  California,  until 
President  Brigham  Young  called  the 
Saints  to  Utah.  She  walked  with 
the  train  of  pioneers  across  the  desert 
and  mountain  paths  to  Salt  Lake." 
In  order  to  be  with  her  brother,  she 
returned  to  California  in  about  1875, 
after  the  death  of  her  first  husband 
and  her  son,  and  resided  there  for 
the  remainder  of  her  life.  She  had 
charge  of  the  village  postoffice  until 
a  few  months  before  her  death. 
"Another  special  guest  at  the  an- 
niversary celebration  was  Millicent 
Curtis  Smith.  She  was  called  to  be 
the  first  Relief  Society  president  in 
Bakersfield,  serving  for  over  seven 
vears  as  president,  and  then  as  secre- 
tary for  several  years.  She  is  seventy- 
four  years  of  age  and  still  a  faithful 
Relief  Societv  member. 
''We  have  two  other  sisters  who 
were  charter  members  in  the  Bakers- 
field  Relief  Society,  which  was  or- 
ganized November  30,  1919.  They 
are  Maude  Allen  Bunting  and  Eliza- 
beth Tuckett  Brimhall.  Mrs.  Brim- 
hall's  great  grandmother,  Sophia 
Packard,  was  at  the  meeting  on 
March  17,  1842,  when  the  Relief 
Societv  WAS  organized." 
ANNIVERSARY  LUNCHEON, MARCH  1-. 
SOCIETY 
1941.  BAKERSFIELD  RELIEF