The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 28, NO. 9 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER SEPTEMBER, 1941
THE COVER
Evening on the Jordan? T. J. Howells, M. D.
WINDING its uncertain course through the Salt Lake Valley from a fresh water lake to a salt sea is the Jordan River. As early as August, 1847, pioneers, at a meeting on the Temple Block, named this river the "Western Jordan" to distinguish it from its prototype, the Jordan in Palestine. In early days, it served as a boundary separating the fertile lands to the east from the waste lands below it. Today stretches of this historic river are beautiful, and in the not far-distant future its banks will be parked and a neglected river will come into its own.
It is autumn, and our picture, "Evening on the Jordan,'' shows the effects of a sinking sun, and lights already appear in friendly windows. A beautiful moon is rising above the high Wasatch Mountains, which are already decorated with their first snow. The harvest moon is reflected as a mirror by the still water of the river. Inquisitive geese crowd the foreground and linger as if enchanted by the scene. This rare combination of mountain, moon, and river makes the cover, "Evening on the Jordan," a pleasing picture.
In our great intermountain region the autumn countryside, mountains, and canyons are beautiful beyond description. Fall is the twilight of the year?the harvest over and the first pause for rest. In our land at present it is a season of peace and repose, and for the Latter-day Saints it is a time to pause and recount, with grateful hearts, God's many blessings.
Editor's Note: "Evening on the Jordan," the photograph used as a cover picture for this issue of the Magazine, is by T. J. Howells, M. D. In this picture, Doctor Howells has captured the placid, serene mood of an autumn evening. It is a beautiful composition. Bordering on the silhouette, it still carries a great deal of interesting and artistic detail. The art work on the cover is by Evan Jensen.
WE
Index To
Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Company Outside Back Cover
Larkin Mortuaries Outside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College Fly-leaf
Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Inside Back Cover
Otarion Fly-leaf
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
Yes! America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it!
Thorough business training will help you to succeed?and this is the right school for that training
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH
(Just mail us a card for information)
by e
Before buying a Hearing Aid send for the interesting story of Otarion or come in for a FREE DEMONSTRATION
DONALD G. LYMAN
511 McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-4036
Learn NOW how you, too, can have Better Hearing
You may send me the free, interesting trusted story of Otarion. You may call of my home on at DATE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine