[Vol28 | September 1941 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]
Prizes have been awarded, and prizewinning poems have been read by their authors at the Breakfast. The large number of local poets as. Well as their interest in this feature is indicated by the fact that more than 300 poems were entered in this year's contest. The general quality of poems submitted was above average. Prizes were awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Biography," Claire Stewart Boyer for "Zenith," and Martha Ross Stewart for "Sibyl." Judges in the contest were Dr. Sherman Brown Page 609 610
Neff of the University of Utah department of English, Dr. Carlton Culmsee of the Brigham Young University department of English, and Belle S. Spafford, editor of the Relief Society Magazine.
That the local writers appreciate and benefit from the annual Roundup program is evidenced. By the large and constantly increasing attendance. Of special interest is the preponderance of women in attendance. At the meetings held this year, women outnumbered men by at least ten to one.
When we review the writers of the past, such names as Shakespeare, Shelley, Keats, Thackeray, Chaucer, Pope, and a score of others readily come to mind?names of men. We recall that Mary Ann Evans, one of the greatest novelists of the nineteenth century, chose the pen name of George Eliot because in her time women had not yet found a place in the professional world. The fact that women?women of teal creative genius whose work is marketable?were in the majority at  the Round-up is significant. It is indicative of the place of women in the present-day field of literature. If literature is the great preserver of culture and the interpreter and influencer of life, then we are justified in believing that the influence of women on the future will be pronounced.
When the roll of honor of writers of the twentieth century is called, there is no doubt that the names of many women will be among the great. The era in which we live bids fair for women writers. The Relief Society has always encouraged creative work of all kinds ?music, art, handcrafts.
