[Vol12 | October 1925 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December]

GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 551 the populace against anything Hebrew.

Egyptian nobility had passed through one experience of having a Hebrew slave placed over them, but her compassion was intensified 'and her courage strengthened by the same power which impelled the mother of Moses to do the unusual. (Ex. 2:6-10.) (d) A scholar, educated by Egyptians but not impressed by their idolatry.

He stood in the front ranks both as scholar and athlete. (See Acts 7:22.) The Levite parents of Moses could not pray with their boy Moses, but how they must have prayed for him. 2. The second forty years. (Acts 7:23.) He is with nature, under the inspiration of the Almighty. (a) His heroism. 1. In avenging oppression.

See Ex. 2:11-15. Lincoln, when a young man, said of slavery: "If ever I get a chance, I will hit that thing hard." Was not his spirit Mosaic? 2. In repulsing the ruffians. (See Ex. 2:17.) How like his ancestor Jacob was the heroic Moses.

It was a case where "blood tells."" A real nobleman will always see that women are protected in their rights. - (b) Heart-power employment.

Next to caring for children, the duties of a shepherd in olden time developed a tenderness of feeling the habits of faithfulness.

Moses had exchanged the sword for the shepherd's can of which God was to make a wand of matchless power. (Ex. 3:1.) (c) Isolation and meditation.

With an exceptional mind, trained to think.

Moses in his isolation from the sham and surgings of society, communed with nature, the handmaid of God.

Every great person and every great people have had periods of isolation.

Each of us needs a short period every day to commune with nature and nature's God.

Whoever neglects secret prayers sets aside the opportunity for the development of noble personality. 3. The third forty years. (See Ex. 7:7; Acts 7:30.) Working with the Lord as a servant and as a son. (See Num. 12:7 and P of G. P., Moses 1:4.) (a) The dispensational call. 1. The burning bush.?The spirit of the Lord illuminates without consuming, but the spirit of the evil one consumes without illuminating.

Ex. 3:22. The rod of power.

There is the possibility of venom in power.

It was no harmless snake that Moses fled from.

See Ex. 4:3-4. Moses was learning the one great theological lesson of implicit obedience as a preparation for the safe possession of power. (b) The triumph of the Holy Priesthood over Egyptian Sorcery.

In the end the authority of God will overcome all else.

Trickery must go down before the truth.

Such was the lesson taught by the contest. (See Ex. 7:9-12.) 
 (c) Perfect faith at the seashore.

The assurance that God lives, the assurance that He has power and the assurance that one's conduct is in harmony with the will of God, all as gifts from God ?this is perfect faith.

With the sea in front of them and the Egyptian army behind them, Israel's leader shouted: "Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord.' The command was the expression of perfect faith. (Ex. 14:13.) The eloquence of that utterance is excelled only by the command, "Peace, be still."" Panic stricken Israel obeyed the one and the elements obeyed the other.

One was the call of delegated authority, the other was the command of inherent authority.

In days of doubt or fear or even rising rebellion, every one of us needs the faith to hear and heed the Mosaic call, "Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord." (d) The sacrifice at Sinai.

Moses had given up his princely position and the possibilities of national fame for the possibility of aiding enslaved Israel and was betrayed by those he sought to help.

He had sacrificed the peace of a pastoral life for a conflict with the wizards of counterfeit wisdom and the burdens of leadership of a wayward people.

And now he set aside an offer of exaltation and offered to God his registration in the Book of God's election to save the worshipers of a Golden Calf from banishment from the recognition and care of the Lord. (See Ex. 32:9, 10, 31, 32.) (e) Marvelous authorship.

Who today can hope to write a book that will be on the lead in three thousand years from now?

The five books of Moses in the Bible hold high place in human interest.

The best literature of the Hebrew race and of the Christian world is all flavored with Mosaic authorship.

Moses as a writer fulfilled prophecy.

See II Nephi 1, 8, 7. (4) The passing away with the Keys of the Holy Priesthood.

See Compendium, Gems, page 287. True to his '"'meekness" Moses accepted without complaint the sentence passed upon him by the Lord and went to the place where he was to see the end of his life as leader of Israel.

It was a place of contest.

Michael, the arch-angel, and Lucifer, his opponent in the war in heaven, were there.

They contended concerning the body of Moses.

Did the Lord decide that Moses should be translated?

Satan certainly would have no use for the dead body; he would have an interest in demanding that Moses be deprived of his body and sent back to the spirit world as far removed as possible from the field where Satan is permitted to operate.' See Deut. 33:48-52; 34:4, and especially Jude 9. (g) Moses Since God "Buried Him." 1. He met on the mountain with the Savior, Elias, Peter James and John, when the Father's voice was heard (See Matt. 17; GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 553 1-9). This was evidently one of the greatest meetings ever held on the earth. 2. He restored the Keys of the Gathering of Israel at the Kirtland Temple, April 3, 1836. (See Doc.

And Cov., 110:11.). So Moses has, in person, taken part in three gospel dispensations.

Questions and Problems 1. Give theological proof that Moses was foreordained: for his mission. 2. Show that the mother of Moses was a woman of rare intelligence. 3. What reasons have we for believing that Moses resembled Jesus? (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:3.) 4. Show that the meekness of Moses consisted in obeying the Lord and refusing to obey Satan. (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 2:12-22.) 5. Show that Moses was a participant in three gospel dispensations. 6. Discuss Moses as one who completed the cycle of existence described in the Hymn, "Oh my Father." 7. Discuss the Statement: "Moses has been moving the world for more than 3,000 years and is still moving it." 8. Show that Moses, the leader of ancient Israel, was under the personal direction of Jehovah, the Christ, yet unborn as the "Only Begotten." See Exodus 6:1-8. LESSON II (Second Week in December) Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER "Not what we give, but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms, feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor and Me." 1. Broadcast Christmas cheer and make yourself happy by serving others. 2. Allow nothing to enter the home or the hearts of those who dwell there to crush the true Christmas spirit. 3. Recall the last incidents in Christ's life to realize the value of this true spirit. 4. Christ's greatest gift was himself in service of those who needed spiritual food and comfort. 5. No Latter-day Saint family can afford to neglect the opportunity afforded at this season of the year to teach and encourage the spirit of peace and good will toward all.