[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Literature | Title: Look at the Star]

Look at the Star Beatrice Rordame Parsons
Lucy felt it would never arrive. The crowds were thick and people jostled her. Excited children left harried parents and rushed to the Salvation Army Santa Claus for one last, quick instruction on how to find a particular chimney. The air was scented with pine and holly as men with great armloads pressed against her. Even the red, blue, and green lights had been fastened to the lampposts and they glowed with a gay, Christmasy brilliance. But Lucy frowned. The doctor had said it was neuritis that made her hip ache like that. He had told her to go home and to bed; but how could she? Just a few days before Christmas with so many things to do.
The bus was a long time coming. This year they'd all be together. The words had been humming through her heart all day. Even the pain was quiet when she thought of it. This Christmas must be perfect! Lucy wanted that more than she wanted anything in the world. Ever since she'd had that letter from Hal saying he was sure of his furlough, she had been planning. He was bringing his wife. The family had never met her, though Hal had sent her photograph and written ecstatically:... I was scared that she wouldn't have me. She's been reared by a very wealthy aunt, and I have so little to offer. But I turned on the charm, and she couldn't resist. You'll love her, Mother...
Lucy hoped so, but she wasn't so sure. She had scribbled a friendly little note welcoming Iris into the family and had received a very formal letter in return. Iris' life had been very different from the sort of harum-scarum growing up that Hal had had. Lucy wanted Iris to think well of the family. She had worked hard to make the house look nice. Iris was used to such elegance.
As she boarded the bus, Lucy thought about Ben's sister. She was coming to dinner, too. Ada was a grave old maid. She taught history at high school and Lucy had often pitied her the barrenness of her existence. Ada had missed so much.
Lucy dropped the token in the box and her lips were tender. How much fun Christmas had been when the children were small. But seeing the restless, almost dissatisfied faces about her, Lucy thought of the war. How hard it had become for anyone to have faith in the old, familiar words: Peace on earth, good will toward men! Why, even Link, who was only eleven wished he might have a real machine gun to shoot real bullets.
Lucy shivered as she got off the bus. Crossing the street she saw that the early winter sunset made an int