[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas on Tubuai in]
Christmas on Tubuai in 1851 (Continued from page 751)
away. I felt that he was right, and consented for them to feast their eyes as long as they wished.
Then came the dinner, and such a feast! Pigs weighing as much as a hundred pounds roasted whole, plenty of wild chickens, fish of all kinds, poi, bread fruit, cocoanuts, with the fresh milk from them as a beverage, pineapples, bananas and many kinds of native fruit unknown in America. Each article of food, as it is prepared usually the day before, is wrapped in large leaves excluding the air, and piled in a heap resembling a small hay stack. Mats were spread for the guests to sit upon. A very few had a knife, fork or spoon. No dish washing, new dishes for every meal. A large palm leaf is placed before each person, and removed when the meal is finished. Leaves platted together formed the table cloth.
When all was in readiness for the dinner Elder Franklin Grouard blessed the food and offered thanks for our multiplicity of blessings. After dinner we held a religious service. As evening came on we illuminated the house with all the glass lamps in the village. The lights threw over all a mantle of romance exceeding anything I had ever seen. Elder Jonathan Crosby playing the violin and our daughter Ellen the flutina, made the instrumental music; added thereto the sweet melody of human voices, made it seem in reality like the birthday of our blessed Savior.
The day was extremely warm, as December and January are the summer months here, and as I gazed at the scenery, beautiful beyond description, the tall stately cocoanut trees reaching toward the sky, verdure everywhere, the roar of the mighty ocean, it seemed I must be in a different world entirely from the one on which my parents, and all my relatives, save those who were with me, lived, wrapped in ice and snow, as I knew they would be on this day in far away Canada and New England; but I knew their love and blessings were being wafted to us, and that in their hearts, as in ours, glowed the love of the lowly Master and the Spirit of Christmas.
Supply of Relief Society Songs Exhausted
The General Board regrets to announce that the supply of Relief Society Songs is exhausted, and because of the shortage of metal it will be impossible to issue a new edition at this time.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology
Articles of Faith Lesson 22Religious Liberty and Toleration Tuesday, March 7, 1944
Article 11: We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship, how, where, or what they may.
Lesson Aim: To show that religious liberty and toleration are principles safeguarded by our inspired Constitution, and that they are supported by all Sacred Scriptures; that they enable men to inherit whatever kingdom of glory they desire in righteousness, but that intolerance is an enemy to God and impedes the progress of man.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 22, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
Man's Right to Freedom in Worship
The Latter-day Saints proclaim their unqualified allegiance to the principles of religious liberty and toleration. Freedom to worship Almighty God as the conscience may dictate, they affirm to be one of the inherent and inalienable rights of humanity. The inspired framers of our charter of national independence proclaimed to the world, as a self-evident truth, that the common birthright of humanity gives to every man a claim to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
What is Worship?
The derivation of the term suggests an answer. It comes to us as the lineal descendant of a pair of Anglo-Saxon words, meaning worthy, and condition or state, and connotes the thought of worthy-ship. The worship of which one is capable depends upon his comprehension of the worthiness characterizing the object of his reverence. Man's capacity for worship is a measure of his comprehension of God. True worship cannot exist where there is no reverence or love for the object. Knowledge is essential to worship; man cannot adequately serve God in ignorance. Worship is the voluntary homage of the soul. Formalism in worship is acceptable only so far as it is accompanied by an intelligent devoutness. The most acceptable form of worship is that which rests on an unreserved compliance with the laws of God as the worshiper has learned their purport.
Religious Intolerance
The Latter-day Saints accept as inspired the constitutional provision by which religious liberty within our own nation is professedly guarded, that no law shall be made "respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;" and they confidently believe that with the spread of enlightenment throughout the world a similar guaranty will be acquired by every nation. Intolerance has been the greatest hindrance to progress in every period of time; yet under the sable cloak of perverted zeal for religion, nations, while boasting of their civilization, and professed ministers of the Gospel of Christ, have stained the pages of the world's history with the record of such unholy deeds of persecution as to make the heavens weep. Christ, in His ministry among the people of Israel, saw with compassionate sorrow the spiritual and intellectual bondage of the times, and declared unto them the saving word: "The truth shall make you free" (John 8:32).
Intolerance is Unscriptural
The teachings of our Lord breathe the spirit of forbearance and love even to enemies. Hatred was not countenanced even toward foes. His instructions were: "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven...." (Matt. 5:44, 45)
Toleration is not Acceptance
It is in nowise inconsistent for Latter-day Saints to boldly proclaim the conviction that their Church is the accepted one, the only one entitled to the designation "Church of Jesus Christ," and the sole earthly repository of the eternal Priesthood in the present age, and yet to willingly accord kind treatment and a recognition of sincerity of purpose to every soul or sect honestly professing Christ.
Man is Accountable for His Acts
The unbounded liberality and tolerance with which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints regards other religious denominations, and the teachings of the Church respecting the assurance of final redemption for all men except the few who have fallen so far as to have committed the unpardonable sin, thereby becoming sons of Perdition, may suggest the erroneous conclusion that we believe that all so redeemed shall be admitted to equal powers, privileges, and glories in the kingdom of heaven. Far from this, the Church proclaims the doctrine of many and varied degrees of glory, which the redeemed will inherit in accordance with their merits.
Graded Glories
To the apostles, the Messiah said: "In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also" (John 14:2-3).
A fuller knowledge of this subject has been imparted in the present dispensation. From a revelation given in 1832, we learn that three great kingdoms or degrees of glory are established, known as the Celestial, the Terrestrial, and the Telestial. Far below the last and least of these, is the state of eternal punishment prepared for the sons of Perdition (Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76).
The Kingdoms with Respect to One Another
The three kingdoms of widely differing glories are severally organized on a plan of gradation (See Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76; 131:1; also II Cor. 12:2). It is reasonable to believe, in the absence of direct revelation by which alone absolute knowledge of the matter could be acquired, that, in accordance with God's plan of eternal progression, advancement within each of the three specified kingdoms will be provided for; though as to possible progress from one kingdom to another the scriptures make no positive affirmation. Eternity is progressive; perfection is relative; the essential feature of God's living purpose is its associated power of eternal increase.
The Sons of Perdition
We learn of another class of souls whose sins are such as to place them beyond the present possibility of repentance and salvation. These are called sons of Perdition.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Come, O Thou King of Kings," Parley P. Pratt, Relief Society Songs, page 1; Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 158.
"The Lord Is My Shepherd," T. Kaschat, Arr., Relief Society Songs, page 29; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 212.
"My Prayer," P. P. Bliss, Relief Society Songs, page 35; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 294.
Solo"In My Father's House Are Many Mansions," Mac Dermid.
It is suggested that for this lesson the class leader, prior to the class period, place on a blackboard in front of the room a brief outline of the lesson. At the beginning of the class period, the attention of class members should be called to this outline with the suggestion that they note the development of the lesson in accordance with the outline.
In the early editions of the Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, a series of questions and suggestive exercises were included. The 15 questions included for this lesson (Chap. 22) might be copied and at the beginning of the class distributed among 15 class members, one question to an individual. Persons receiving the questions should be informed that answers to the questions will be found in the presentation of the lesson; they should be told to follow the lesson carefully so as to be prepared to answer the questions when called upon to do so. Because of the great number of questions, answers must be brief. The class leader must then make sure that answers to these questions are to be found in her presentation of the lesson, and that her lesson be so planned as to allow time for answers.
Dr. Talmage's questions for chapter 22 follow:
1. What is worship?
2. Show that man's ability to worship rightly is a measure of his conception of God's attributes and powers.
3. Show that worship, to be valid, must be voluntary.
4. Demonstrate man's right to freedom in worship.
5. Explain the intolerance, in matters of worship, characterizing early and modern times.
6. Show that intolerance is unscriptural.
7. Demonstrate that tolerance is not necessarily acceptance.
8. Show that man, being free to choose for himself, is justly held accountable for his acts.
9. Explain Christ's expression, "In my Father's house are many mansions."
10. What kingdoms or degrees of glory are specified in the revealed word of God?
11. Who are to inherit the Celestial glory?
12. For whom is the Terrestrial glory provided?
13. Who will be consigned to the Telestial kingdom?
