[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Fiction | Title: Tomorrow's Cup Chapter IX Anna Prince Redd]
Tomorrow's Cup Anna Prince Redd
CHAPTER IX
Synopsis: Janet still fearful of San Juan, returns to El Toro with her twins to find that the country has risen to strike at her again, this time in the guise of a friend, now blind and helpless. It is almost more than she can face; but seeing the pain and disappointment in her husband's eyes, she determines to conquer her fears and accept the inevitable for his sake. In being "eyes and ears" for Dr. Groneman, Janet comes to an understanding of the strength and grandeur of San Juan, and above all, of the beauty around her. When it comes time for the famous doctor to return to his home in New York, she decides that his last day in the country shall be one to be remembered through all his dark and lonely days to come. This high resolve is all but shattered when the doctor announces that he wants to spend the day at the river. At once, and with renewed force, Janet's fears return, for the river above all else holds the most dread for her. But she courageously accepts the challengefor she feels that it is oneand says they will go to the river.
"Here's where we chute the chutes down the dugway," Janet warned. They rounded a curve, hung suspended above the river for a terrifying moment, and then shot downward with a speed that took Groneman's breath. He held onto his hat, whistled with satisfaction and measured their descent in seconds as they careened down the narrow dugway toward the bottom of the gorge.
Groneman chuckled. "You drive as though you want to get there before you change your mind."
"Sorry," Janet apologized. "We'll approach the monster with caution!" She jammed on the brakes and skidded to a snail's pace.
Groneman leaning back leisurely gave a short, teasing laugh. "Monster?" he questioned. "Prehistoric or current?"
"Please!" Janet's voice was tense. "I try not to fear this country. Most of the time I can divert my unreasoning attitude" She laughed shakily. "Silly, isn't it? And the funny part is that the river isn't at all concerned about my fear. It is concerned only with its relentless destinationjust as I am with mine. Sometime our paths will cross. One of us will have to yield the right of way, and from the looks of that gorge down there, it won't be the river!"
Janet proceeded down the dugway at a pace that was very safe and sane, but Groneman knew she was trembling. Potsworth had told him that much of Janet's illness was the result of her instinctive fears. But he had discredited the extent of that, or he would not have insisted upon this trip to the river. He'd hoped vaguely that in some way he could help her. Now he knew that only the river itself could do that. And the country itself. Janet would never be happy in San Juan unless it took her to its heart by its own strength and beauty, its spiritual grandeur.
"Shall we walk to the edge?" Janet asked, seemingly controlled.
"If you'll promise not to look down and get dizzy," he agreed lightly, glad to be rid of his unprofitable speculations.
They left the car with its engine pointing down hill, stalled against a boulder, and walked to the edge of the gorge just above the bridge that spanned it.
"Um-m-m, I can smell the water!" Groneman sniffed appreciatively. "Wonderful smell, isn't it?"
"I like wood smoke," Janet evaded. "I can smell fire."
From across the river, close to the bridge, came a long, thin "Hello-o-!"
Janet's eyes traced to the source of the call. On a jut of rock twenty feet or more above the water level stood two naked little figures, wraithlike against a spiral of smoke.
"Juanee's twins!" Groneman exclaimed. "Tugi-Chee and Maneto!"
"Yes." Janet clutched his arm. "They'reThat's too high! It's halfway up to the bridge. They can't dive from there!"
"How high is it?"
"I don't know. Only tell them not to dive; they'll listen to you!"
"If I know those kids, they'll make it!"
"Nine-year-old boys! How can they know what the river will do to them?"
The call came again. Friendly. Urgent. "Hello-o Miss Janet!"
"They'rewaiting for us to signal... They want me to see them... Please, Dr. Mark, tell them it's too high!"
"Wave to them, Janet. It's the only way to conquer your fear."
"No! How can you ask such a thing?"
Groneman raised his own arm as if to wave for her. Janet thrust it sharply aside, said nervously: "II didn't realize they are so tall.... They're exactly the same height.... And their hair wet from the last divegleams like anthracite. Did you ever see such perfect bodies?"
"You're evading, Janet. Wave to them."
"II can't! It would kill them to dive from there. The river's a devil!"
"Wave, Janet. They'll come up. You'll see that they will."
"I can't, I tell you!" Janet sprang back. "The current! Listen to it, snarling as if it were alive! It is alive!" She took a step forward. "I'll wave," she said slowly, and raised one arm. "You're cruel! Cruel when I thought you were kind."
"We see you, Maneto!" Groneman shouted, pretending not to hear.
There was not a sound.... Then a single splash, a moment later an exultant, long cry. Janet tried to shut her eyes but her lids were frozen with fear. Then she saw themtwo black heads bobbing like corks on the water, four copper arms rising and falling in unison.
Groneman, listening intently, said: "They swim with almost no effort. It's beautiful."
Under his slow, cool voice, Janet began to relax. Juanee's boys were safe. No! She couldn't see them at all! There was nothing where they had been but a deep trough where a current had cut through! She gave a terrified scream. "They've gone under!"
"They'll come up. Keep your eyes open, Janet."
"Yes. Yes, I will. But isn't itShouldn't we do something?"
"There they are," Groneman said with assurance, touching her arm.
"How could you tell?"
"I heard the water, placid after the current, break above their heads. I could hear them gulp new breath."
Tears coursed down Janet's face. "You do not need eyes," she said humbly.
"Can you see them, Janet? Have they come ashore?"
"They'll pop up pretty quickly." Janet was surprised at her own assurance. "They must have a trail that leads up and down to the waterand there they are, heads bashfully peeking around a boulder, their bodies out of sight."
"How you like that?" the boys asked proudly.
"Fine!" Groneman answered. "That was a pretty swell dive! How do you judge your distance?"
"We measure us. Every six moons we measure us," Maneto said.
"Five times we measure us. Ethli, noki, ta, tee, ostha," counted Tugi-Chee. "Five times higher than our own heads we dive!"
And they scurried away to dress.
Janet turned toward the car. "We'll have to hurry if we get to the Goosenecks," she said.
The sun was setting when they reached the plateau and crossed to Lookout Point. They left the car and walked to the brink. Twelve hundred feet below lay the Great San Juan Goosenecks.
Janet sighed raptly. She began, hesitantly: "The gorge is gray-pink; misty, yet shot with spikes of gold from the sun. Far below us the Goosenecks build up. Layer upon layer, like pyramids. Each crusted stratum is smaller than the one before, until at the very top, hundreds of feet above, the mammoth lobes end in giant, tilted pancakes ready to slide from their dizzy height."
Groneman's face lighted up. He said: "Yes, I see it plainly."
Janet's pulse quickened, her eyes shone, her voice deepened. "There is nothing else like it in all the world!" she breathed. "Each meander, interlocking on alternate sides of the gorge, is connected to its parent wall by the thinnest of partitions. Mere necks that shape the river into gleaming platters for the stacks to rest upon." Her voice caught, tears glistened in her eyes, but she went on, after a deep, steadying breath. "The river goes in and out around each curve, undercutting on the outside, building sand bars on the inside. Smooth. Relentless. Three miles to achieve a hundred yards. We'reFrom down there, we're but dots against the sky!"
Her voice took on new meaning, became the voice of a scriptural reader, hushed with reverence. "Sunlight. Vastness. Strength. Blended into such spiritual grandeur that I can't breathe...."
Groneman's hand brushed across his sightless eyes. "So shall the lame be made to walk and the blind to see," he said reverently.
They drove back through the scented desert night, and it was five years before Dr. Groneman returned to El Toro. Five years in which Janet turned steadfastly from the river, hoarding his last sentence there at the Goosenecks, wondering when she, the lame, would be made to walk, by faith and without fear.
The sun hung in its place in the hot dome of sky above El Toro with blistering intensity. Day after day through the long dry summer, Janet had watched it curl the leaves and sear the earth. Sand drifted across the paths and around the house, ankle deep, hotter than the sun and dryer than the wind that blew it there. Floors wore a constant film of dust and grit in spite of her efforts to keep them clean. Nothing escaped the ravages of the drought. Sand drifted through every crevice, sifted between the sheets of the beds, and lodged in the pockets and seams of clothing. Insects multiplied into a plague. Water stood hot in the barrels, and there was no ice to cool it for a drink.
Five years! Janet poured the dishwater from her pan onto the few plants in the yard that she had stubbornly kept alive. Most of it went to the swing tree. Jerry and Paulette's swing treeplanted the day they were born.... Five years! Years in which Paul had seen his herds dwindle to half their number. Cattle, crazy from thirst, plunged over canyons at the smell of water they couldn't reach. Another year of this and Paul would be penniless, robbed of all he had so stubbornly achieved.... But what was the good of thinking about that?
She took her empty pan and went in out of the sun. As she came in, Paulette began to cry. "I'm too hot," she moaned, "and Jerry broke my fan."
Janet smiled encouragement. "Daddy will be home tonight, and he'll fan you with his big hat."
Paulette was a lovely, golden-haired child, as different from her brother as day from night. Jerry was dark like Paul, tempestuous like his mother. Paulette, usually all smiles, was like neither of them. Rhae and Warren Newsbaum claimed her, spoiling her as much as Paul would let them. Every summer, regardless of rain or drought the Newsbaums came to their ranch in the desert. Paul, scoffing at first, had long ago added them to the list of his country's converts. Janet had never ceased to wonder at her sister's swift acceptance of everything and everyone in the whole country.
One more year of this, however, and the stoutest enthusiasm would wane. Summer after summer as the drought had persisted she had taken the children and gone East for a brief stay, merely to please Paul. It was too hot anywhere for comfort. This time she had refused to go. A few years from even the dearest place and one became a stranger. The noise of Washington frightened Paulette, and Jerry was restless and dissatisfied there. "Kids in this town don't know how to play," he'd scoffed. "They've never even shot a bow and arrow!"
When her father had died, the last tie was broken and this year she had stayed in San Juan.
"Mother, look!" Jerry's excited tone brought Janet back to the present. "There comes a strange car. I betcha it's coming here!"
"Betcha?" Janet reproved. "Is that the way to talk?"
"Bet your boots! Daddy says those words 'riginated right here in San Juan, and anything that 'riginates here is okay by me!"
Janet smiled above the clean dress she was holding over Paulette's head. Already this five-year-old son was fierce with loyalty. The little dress fell, crooked, over Paulette's head.
"Mother, you smother me!" Paulette gasped.
Janet straightened the dress absently. Jerry tugged at her sleeve. "Aren't you the least bit excited?" he questioned. "Let's go out on the porch!"
Paulette had already dashed out to see who was coming. Jerry had waited for his mother. He always did, and it never failed to make Janet's heart leap, and to tighten her throat. She took his hard little hand and they ran to make up for lost time.
The car swung into the yard, sending a shower of sand into the air. "They'll be drenched," Janet thought, and smiled at the incongruity of the term. She said: "Jerry, I'll bet that's Uncle Warren's new car!"
"It is, Mother!" Paulette was already dancing up the path between Rhae and Warren Newsbaum.
"Only this minute I was thinking of you!" Janet cried. "Oh, I'm so glad you've come. But to what a place!"
"Best country in the world!" Jerry quoted. "How do you do, Uncle Warren?"
Warren Newsbaum shook hands with his young nephew soberly. "I'm fine, Jerry. And you're right about the country, son."
"Then we're glad you've come to El Toro," Jerry said, and led them grandly into the house.
"Jerry makes the most of company," Janet smiled behind his straight little back.
Warren tossed her an assenting nod, and there was a tender twinkle in his eyes.
"Did you bring the house that's to look like El Toro?" Paulette asked her Aunt Rhae.
"We did, Sweet," Rhae hugged her happily. "It's in our pocket books."
"Then it isn't nearly as large as El Toro!" Paulette said proudly.
"Where's Paul?" Rhae asked, her arm affectionately around Janet.
"I'm ready for a little sparring again!"
Janet laughed appreciatively. "Every time you come I expect it to be your last, the way you two fight. Paul will be here tonight."
"We'll stage a celebration," Rhae suggested.
"I hope Daddy'll like it," Jerry said.
Janet flushed with embarrassment. Rhae and Warren laughed good naturedly.
"From the mouths of babes," Rhae quoted.
"I'm not a baby," Jerry said angrily. "I'm five years old!"
Warren Newsbaum slapped him on the back. "Right you are, old man," he said. "Right you are."
Jerry flinched, but his dignity was fully restored.
After dinner Janet put the children to bed. Her head throbbed after the long day of heat and the excitement of seeing her own folks again. Rhae had retired early, leaving Warren to sit on the porch with Janet, to wait for Paul.
"She wants to be fresh for the encounter," Warren laughed. "Right now this heat has dulled even my enthusiasm."
For a while the two on the porch were silent. Finally Janet spoke: "I can't think what's keeping Paul. He sent the foreman ahead to tell me he'd be home early this afternoon. The cattle are jumpy and dry. Anything can happen at a time like this!"
"Here he comes, now," Newsbaum said cheerfully. "Hear that horse?"
Janet was on her feet. "That isn't Paul; he wouldn't be riding that hard. It's a runner! Something's happened!"
Warren Newsbaum's hand reached out in the dark to steady her.
"Miss Janet!" Indian Joe's voice penetrated Janet's consciousness before she realized the riding had ceased.
"Tell me..." Janet's voice was steady.
"There's been"
"A stampede," Joe answered.
"Yes. I knew there would be. Will Mr. Paul come home?"
"Yes, Miss Janet."
"Thanks, Joe. Goodnight. Goodnight, Warren."
Warren understood Janet's need. "Goodnight," he said, and left her to wait alone....
(To be continued)
Christmas on Tubuai in 1851 (Continued from page 751)
away. I felt that he was right, and consented for them to feast their eyes as long as they wished.
Then came the dinner, and such a feast! Pigs weighing as much as a hundred pounds roasted whole, plenty of wild chickens, fish of all kinds, poi, bread fruit, cocoanuts, with the fresh milk from them as a beverage, pineapples, bananas and many kinds of native fruit unknown in America. Each article of food, as it is prepared usually the day before, is wrapped in large leaves excluding the air, and piled in a heap resembling a small hay stack. Mats were spread for the guests to sit upon. A very few had a knife, fork or spoon. No dish washing, new dishes for every meal. A large palm leaf is placed before each person, and removed when the meal is finished. Leaves platted together formed the table cloth.
When all was in readiness for the dinner Elder Franklin Grouard blessed the food and offered thanks for our multiplicity of blessings. After dinner we held a religious service. As evening came on we illuminated the house with all the glass lamps in the village. The lights threw over all a mantle of romance exceeding anything I had ever seen. Elder Jonathan Crosby playing the violin and our daughter Ellen the flutina, made the instrumental music; added thereto the sweet melody of human voices, made it seem in reality like the birthday of our blessed Savior.
The day was extremely warm, as December and January are the summer months here, and as I gazed at the scenery, beautiful beyond description, the tall stately cocoanut trees reaching toward the sky, verdure everywhere, the roar of the mighty ocean, it seemed I must be in a different world entirely from the one on which my parents, and all my relatives, save those who were with me, lived, wrapped in ice and snow, as I knew they would be on this day in far away Canada and New England; but I knew their love and blessings were being wafted to us, and that in their hearts, as in ours, glowed the love of the lowly Master and the Spirit of Christmas.
Supply of Relief Society Songs Exhausted
The General Board regrets to announce that the supply of Relief Society Songs is exhausted, and because of the shortage of metal it will be impossible to issue a new edition at this time.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology
Articles of Faith Lesson 22Religious Liberty and Toleration Tuesday, March 7, 1944
Article 11: We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship, how, where, or what they may.
Lesson Aim: To show that religious liberty and toleration are principles safeguarded by our inspired Constitution, and that they are supported by all Sacred Scriptures; that they enable men to inherit whatever kingdom of glory they desire in righteousness, but that intolerance is an enemy to God and impedes the progress of man.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 22, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
Man's Right to Freedom in Worship
The Latter-day Saints proclaim their unqualified allegiance to the principles of religious liberty and toleration. Freedom to worship Almighty God as the conscience may dictate, they affirm to be one of the inherent and inalienable rights of humanity. The inspired framers of our charter of national independence proclaimed to the world, as a self-evident truth, that the common birthright of humanity gives to every man a claim to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
What is Worship?
The derivation of the term suggests an answer. It comes to us as the lineal descendant of a pair of Anglo-Saxon words, meaning worthy, and condition or state, and connotes the thought of worthy-ship. The worship of which one is capable depends upon his comprehension of the worthiness characterizing the object of his reverence. Man's capacity for worship is a measure of his comprehension of God. True worship cannot exist where there is no reverence or love for the object. Knowledge is essential to worship; man cannot adequately serve God in ignorance. Worship is the voluntary homage of the soul. Formalism in worship is acceptable only so far as it is accompanied by an intelligent devoutness. The most acceptable form of worship is that which rests on an unreserved compliance with the laws of God as the worshiper has learned their purport.
Religious Intolerance
The Latter-day Saints accept as inspired the constitutional provision by which religious liberty within our own nation is professedly guarded, that no law shall be made "respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;" and they confidently believe that with the spread of enlightenment throughout the world a similar guaranty will be acquired by every nation. Intolerance has been the greatest hindrance to progress in every period of time; yet under the sable cloak of perverted zeal for religion, nations, while boasting of their civilization, and professed ministers of the Gospel of Christ, have stained the pages of the world's history with the record of such unholy deeds of persecution as to make the heavens weep. Christ, in His ministry among the people of Israel, saw with compassionate sorrow the spiritual and intellectual bondage of the times, and declared unto them the saving word: "The truth shall make you free" (John 8:32).
Intolerance is Unscriptural
The teachings of our Lord breathe the spirit of forbearance and love even to enemies. Hatred was not countenanced even toward foes. His instructions were: "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven...." (Matt. 5:44, 45)
Toleration is not Acceptance
It is in nowise inconsistent for Latter-day Saints to boldly proclaim the conviction that their Church is the accepted one, the only one entitled to the designation "Church of Jesus Christ," and the sole earthly repository of the eternal Priesthood in the present age, and yet to willingly accord kind treatment and a recognition of sincerity of purpose to every soul or sect honestly professing Christ.
Man is Accountable for His Acts
The unbounded liberality and tolerance with which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints regards other religious denominations, and the teachings of the Church respecting the assurance of final redemption for all men except the few who have fallen so far as to have committed the unpardonable sin, thereby becoming sons of Perdition, may suggest the erroneous conclusion that we believe that all so redeemed shall be admitted to equal powers, privileges, and glories in the kingdom of heaven. Far from this, the Church proclaims the doctrine of many and varied degrees of glory, which the redeemed will inherit in accordance with their merits.
Graded Glories
To the apostles, the Messiah said: "In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also" (John 14:2-3).
A fuller knowledge of this subject has been imparted in the present dispensation. From a revelation given in 1832, we learn that three great kingdoms or degrees of glory are established, known as the Celestial, the Terrestrial, and the Telestial. Far below the last and least of these, is the state of eternal punishment prepared for the sons of Perdition (Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76).
The Kingdoms with Respect to One Another
The three kingdoms of widely differing glories are severally organized on a plan of gradation (See Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76; 131:1; also II Cor. 12:2). It is reasonable to believe, in the absence of direct revelation by which alone absolute knowledge of the matter could be acquired, that, in accordance with God's plan of eternal progression, advancement within each of the three specified kingdoms will be provided for; though as to possible progress from one kingdom to another the scriptures make no positive affirmation. Eternity is progressive; perfection is relative; the essential feature of God's living purpose is its associated power of eternal increase.
The Sons of Perdition
We learn of another class of souls whose sins are such as to place them beyond the present possibility of repentance and salvation. These are called sons of Perdition.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Come, O Thou King of Kings," Parley P. Pratt, Relief Society Songs, page 1; Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 158.
"The Lord Is My Shepherd," T. Kaschat, Arr., Relief Society Songs, page 29; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 212.
"My Prayer," P. P. Bliss, Relief Society Songs, page 35; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 294.
Solo"In My Father's House Are Many Mansions," Mac Dermid.
It is suggested that for this lesson the class leader, prior to the class period, place on a blackboard in front of the room a brief outline of the lesson. At the beginning of the class period, the attention of class members should be called to this outline with the suggestion that they note the development of the lesson in accordance with the outline.
In the early editions of the Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, a series of questions and suggestive exercises were included. The 15 questions included for this lesson (Chap. 22) might be copied and at the beginning of the class distributed among 15 class members, one question to an individual. Persons receiving the questions should be informed that answers to the questions will be found in the presentation of the lesson; they should be told to follow the lesson carefully so as to be prepared to answer the questions when called upon to do so. Because of the great number of questions, answers must be brief. The class leader must then make sure that answers to these questions are to be found in her presentation of the lesson, and that her lesson be so planned as to allow time for answers.
Dr. Talmage's questions for chapter 22 follow:
1. What is worship?
2. Show that man's ability to worship rightly is a measure of his conception of God's attributes and powers.
3. Show that worship, to be valid, must be voluntary.
4. Demonstrate man's right to freedom in worship.
5. Explain the intolerance, in matters of worship, characterizing early and modern times.
6. Show that intolerance is unscriptural.
7. Demonstrate that tolerance is not necessarily acceptance.
8. Show that man, being free to choose for himself, is justly held accountable for his acts.
9. Explain Christ's expression, "In my Father's house are many mansions."
10. What kingdoms or degrees of glory are specified in the revealed word of God?
11. Who are to inherit the Celestial glory?
12. For whom is the Terrestrial glory provided?
13. Who will be consigned to the Telestial kingdom?
14. What is known of the gradation of glory within each of the kingdoms specified?
15. Who are the sons of Perdition? What is known of their fate?
Note: Class members should be urged to continue to bring to class copies of the standard works of the Church.