[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Places Jesus Loved Romney]

They who obtain a glorious resurrection from the dead, are exalted far above principalities, powers, thrones, dominions and angels, and are expressly declared to be heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ, all having eternal powerPage 374.
Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength Lesson 6Companionship Tuesday, March 7, 1944
What each of us needs more than we need almost anything else is contact with good peoplepeople who help us in the solution of our problems, who inspire us to fine endeavor, who encourage us to live at our best. We cannot go into the presence of some people without being lifted up in our hearts and without coming away feeling better. Some people call forth the best that is in us. They give us a nobler estimate of ourselves, inspire us with renewed hope and confidence. Such companions are a priceless source of strength.
There is other poverty in the world besides material poverty, other suffering than physical suffering. People may have enough of the world's goods and still be in social poverty. Through mistakes, disappointment, sorrow, and failure, men and women become discouraged, hopeless, and beaten in spirit. Such people need the impact of cheerful, hopeful, radiant people who have personality to bestow. One may give people things and leave them much as they were before; but to impart hope, courage, and self-confidence not only changes circumstances but it changes people.
We all need friends; we cannot live without them. The way to cultivate friendship is to be friendly. The Savior of mankind was a perfect example in this respect, as He was in all other respects. He drew all men to Him, lifted them up, made them better. The two disciples who walked with Him on His way to Emmaus, after He had left them, said to one another: "Did not our heart burn within us, while He talked with us by the way...?"
To minister in this way to others is the high mission of Relief Society. The service rendered in this respect is priceless. The world needs such service. Friendship is a fundamental need of the world. No man is sufficient unto himself. Every man requires friends.
Next to the warmth and encouragement that comes from personal friendships, is the friendship of good books which are the products of the best minds of all the ages. If the good and great of our time cannot personally cross our thresholds and visit with us, they can enrich us through their writings. Great persons of the past can also contribute to our well-being: Franklin can aid us with his practical wisdom; Milton can sing to us of Paradise; Shakespeare can reveal to us the world of imagination and the workings of the human heart. Although one may be poor and his home may be humble, he can enjoy the society of the master spirits of the world through good books.
Discussion
1. Why are friends essential to happy normal living?
2. In what ways do we draw strength from our companions? From books?
3. How may we enrich the lives of our companions and bring out the best that is in them? Apply this to family relationships.
References
Relief Society Magazine, vol. 22, November 1935, p. 720 Gospel Doctrine, third edition, "Love One Another," p. 425; "Keep Aloof From the Wicked," p. 426 Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, "The Sympathy of Friends," p.