[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?]

"Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?" President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.

And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it. But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him. And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business? And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man (Luke 2:40-52).

I
THE JOURNEY FROM NAZARETH TO JERUSALEM

It was a spring day at the end of March (near the middle of the seventh Hebrew month, Nisan), the fields were yellowing with the ripening crops, the hills and valleys were covered with wild flowers, all nature rejoiced, as Joseph and Mary and Jesus, their kinsfolk and neighbors, left Nazareth with its white rocks and cliffs, splotched with green, and started down through the foothills to the valley floor of the plain of Jezreel, one thousand feet below. They were going to Jerusalem to observe the Passover, as had been their wont over the years, in obedience to the Rabbinical law, commending (and in certain instances requiring) the observance of the feast in Jerusalem by the Levitically clean males of Israel. The women were not legally bound to attend. The feast was a jubilee of great rejoicing for it marked the anniversary of Israel's delivery from a grievous bondage to the Egyptians, and also her birth as a nation.

This journey has particular significance because it is the first appearance of Jesus in the sacred record, following His return with Mary and Joseph, to Nazareth from Egypt. After this appearance, there is another silence of eighteen years about Jesus, when being about thirty years old, He appears on the banks of the Jordan to be baptized of John. While history is silent about those first twelve years, we may reasonably know what His life was like. Joseph was a carpenter, and Jesus was undoubtedly learning the trade, for years after, when friends and neighbors for the second time rejected Him from Nazareth, they asked: "Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary...?" But "From the first days of its existence, a religious atmosphere surrounded the child of Jewish parents."? This would come first from the mother, but the father was under a sacred obligation to teach his son. At the age of five or six the child was sent to school, where he began a regular course, the Bible being the exclusive textbook until the boy was ten years of age. This Bible study began with Leviticus, then passed to the other parts of the Pentateuch, thence to the Prophets, and thence to the Hagiographa,that portion of the Bible not in the law and the prophets. From ages ten to fifteen, the child studied the Mishnah, or traditional law. When he reached the academies of the Rabbis he studied the Gemara or Talmud, but a boy might not enter these till he was fifteen. We have no means of knowing whether or not Jesus attended one of these schools, but the astonishment of the doctors in the Temple over His learning would indicate He had received from somewhere, most unusual and profound wisdom and knowledge. But at twelve years, a boy became a "son of the law,"? subject to the fasts and under obligation to attend the feasts. So as these pilgrims wended downward over the foothills in the afternoon (in Palestine the first day of the journey was always a short one), they were a joyous group, chanting as they went the "Psalms of Ascent" (Psalms 120-134), to the accompaniment of a flute.?

As we think of them moving slowly down into the valley with their donkeys laden with necessary supplies, picking their way among the boulders that strewed the path, we cannot escape wondering what were the thoughts of Jesus. That He was exceeding wise, the experience in the Temple shows. But was this wisdom earthborn from His studies, or did He have also a spiritual memory that brought to Him a recollection of all that had before happened, and a vision to show what was thereafter to happen along this road to Jerusalem, a road richer in incidents of God's dealings with his children, than any other road on the face of the earth?

As to memory of the past, we do know that during His later Judean ministry, while speaking to the Jews in the treasury to the Temple, He declared: "I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.... I speak that which I have seen with my Father."? And out on the Mount of Olives, after they had left the Passover Chamber, on the night before the crucifixion, Jesus said to His apostles: "For all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you."? Thus in His later ministry, His mind was filled with knowledge gained in His pre-existence.

We do not know the details of their journey to Jerusalem, but they may well have stopped the first night at Nain, where later He raised the son of the widow;? or if the start were early enough they might have gone on to Jezreel, once the second capital of the northern kingdom. One wonders if, as He came to Nain, He saw a vision of His future miracle of kindness there. And here we may recall that in pre-vision He said to Peter in the Passover Chamber, answering Peter's protestations of faithfulness: "I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me."?

When He came to the neighborhood of Jezreel, did He see in vision the disastrous defeat of Josiah on the plain of Esdraelon by Pharaoh Necho, at Megiddo, a defeat so terrible and worked so deeply into the Hebrew heart, that John speaks of the great last battle as Armageddon"the hill of Megiddo?" Or did He see the earlier conflict in the time of the Judges, when Barak, Deborah the prophetess guiding, defeated Sisera, leading the forces of Jabin, on that same plain of Esdraelon, and did He see again the deed of Jael afterwards? And did there also come before Him the iniquities and tragic fate of Ahab and Jezebel, and the Lord's vengeance worked through Elijah against the priests of Baal, and the flight of Elijah to Carmel, the passing of the Lord before Elijah in the "still small voice"? For Jesus was the Lord who spoke to and commanded His ancient prophets.

But wherever the first night was spent, the start the next morning was early. They now moved on Roman roads, as they passed on southwards towards the city of Samaria. Crossing the headwaters of the River Kishon (which waters and drains the plains of Esdraelon), they would begin the ascent of the pass over the Carmelite range, the hill slopes probably covered with the yellow flowers of the broom. Villages dotted the high points along the way. They found rich orchards and vineyards on the summit and as they looked around them they could catch, here and there, glimpses of the Mediterranean (off to the west) and looking back to the north, they could see the snowy summit of Mount Hermon. Over to the left as they climbed up the pass, they had seen the rugged volcanic mountains of Gilboa, at the foot of which was fought the great battle between Saul and the Philistines, and where Saul killed himself. To the northeastward was Endor, the place where the witch lived whom Saul consulted, the Lord having failed to direct him, "neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets."?

As they went forward over the undulating pass, they crossed a part of the plain of Dothan,? where Joseph was sold to the Ishmaelites.? Finally, passing the summit, they descended by easy grades to the city of Samaria, located on an isolated hill 300 feet above the surrounding country.? Samaria was the next capital of the northern tribes after Shechem. It had been frequently destroyed but now as Jesus came to it, it was a great city, rebuilt by Herod the Great, with magnificent palaces, temples, and a stadium. The plain surrounding the city was exceedingly fertile, covered with orchards of figs and olives. Its beauty and its future provoked Isaiah to speak of its "glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be a fading flower, and as the hasty fruit before the summer."? But here in the years long gone, before this visit, there had been planted a grove of Astarte (Venus), and Jezebel had erected a great temple to that same heathen goddess.? Elisha had lived at the foot of the hill on which the city rested;? and to this house came Naaman, the Syrian leper, to be healed. Elisha dwelt here when he disclosed to Ahab the plans of the Syrian generals. Here, when Benhadad the Syrian besieged it, was the scene of the great famine, so sore it was that women ate their own sons.

What must have been the feelings of the young Jesus as He looked at this present magnificence and then recalled the past, and (it seems it must be) visioned the future!

As the pilgrims went forward they were joined by others also going to the Passover in Jerusalem. On through the day, as newcomers flowed into the group, they renewed, time and again, the chant of the "Psalms of the Ascent." They lived over again in thought and story how here the Lord had blessed them and delivered them from Egyptian bondage. But of all the throng, no one but He Himself knew that that Lord traveled with them, for we must believe there was with Him a spiritual recollection, a divine knowledge, of the pa