If There Is Anything Lovely Music for Daily Living Harold Lundstrom "This is," the chubby, wide-eyed fifth grader haltingly sobbed, "the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to me!" The musicians of the quartet on stage stood speechless; the 250 fourth, fifth, and sixth graders and their teachers held their breath, and a couple of us who were auditioning for "Young Audience, Inc.," concert could not believe our ears. Because the boy's words came so slowly and hesitatingly between his heaving sobs, there wasn't, I'm sure, a dry eye in the school's auditorium—least not among any of the adults. "The most wonderful thing" that this ten-year-old was so poignantly and piquantly telling us about was his first experience hearing great music and hearing it played by "live" musicians. All the music he had ever heard previously—or at least to which he had given his full attention—had either been rock-n-roll, or popular, Broadway musical, or movie tunes, and these he had heard over the radio, on television, or in motion picture shows. He represented a fine middle-class neighborhood, and the price of tickets for a concert—any kind of a concert—was not beyond the family's means. Somebody—his parents or other members of his kith and kin—had never enjoyed the fun *Member, Church General Music Committee; Deseret News Music and Dance Editor 244 of giving this boy an opportunity to hear how exciting great music sounds when it is performed by live musicians; somebody had neglected to pique his intellectual curiosity on how impressive a musical experience can be. The great violinist and human being, the late Fritz Kreisler, implied occasionally that a musical experience is worthwhile only if at some point one develops what is commonly called "goose flesh." This phenomenon is difficult to describe, much less to explain or analyze. But once it is experienced—as this music-starved young man discovered and so eloquently expressed—the desire to feel it again never ends. People arrive at the sensation of "goose flesh" for a variety of reasons. That ten-year-old that morning arrived at it through a live performance. Some persons reach it through some association, consciously or unconsciously. Doesn't every couple, for example, have a musical selection known as "our song"? It raises "goose flesh" because of some important occasion during their courtship. Some persons experience "goose flesh" when they sing or hear their school song. But when a listener has had no previous association with the piece and is really hearing it for the first time, the thrill is determined, generally, by what music, if any—and if so, what kind—to which he has been previously exposed. In a word, if the only music he has ever heard has been cowboy songs, he isn't likely to be touched by a Schubert string quartet, no matter how beautiful it is. "If There Is Anything Lovely." And so it is about time that good music be given the place it rightfully should have, not only among all the arts, but also as one of the essentials of our civilization, as one of the ingredients of our daily living. We hear almost everywhere—in our family, Church, social, business, and professional associations—a great deal of patronizing talk about the significance of the so-called "cultural explosion" allegedly taking place. We are proud, we boast, that we are members of a religious organization whose members are dedicated to the cultural and performing arts. But it can be the shocking experience of those engaged in the arts, either professionally or in lay civic music projects and programs, to discover in some of our homes that there are high school age and college age children who have never, in their entire lives, attended one professional concert or ballet, or one professional performance of a Shakespeare play, or who have the companionship of a book filled with reproductions of the world's great art, or who either own or have ever read one of the world's great books (except as a school assignment). It is easy enough for many of us to give lip service to the arts, to the concept of the Thirteenth Article of Faith: If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. But, too frequently, as far as the cultural arts are concerned, it has been only lip service. Of course, the eternal argument as to what is good or bad in the arts comes down eventually to a matter of personal opinion. But there are certain towering masterpieces of music, drama, dance, and literature whose permanent values are universally recognized. Below them lies a mass of material of varying appeal, subject to individual taste. Still lower is the heap of unmitigated trash, which is, unfortunately, still the favorite haunt of the so-called "mass audience." But there can be no argument or disagreement concerning the exalted expressions of man's genius in the performing and fine arts. They have become established through the passage of time, not only by the careful study of conscientious scholars, but also by the cumulative approval of the average man himself. The story goes that a man once went to an exhibition of paintings. (One version of the story is that the exhibit was in the Louvre.) The man walked around all the galleries, paying particular attention to the old masters. As he left, an attendant said to him: "I hope you enjoyed our collection of paintings, Sir." "It isn't bad," the man answered, "but I didn't like your old masters." The attendant paused, and then said: "With all respect to you, Sir, it isn't the old masters who are on trial here." If there are some of us, as with the visitor, who couldn't stand or pass the trial either, what can or should we do about it? Before considering some answers, it should be stated that a principal reason for the neglect of listening to great and good music—i.e., "the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to me"—is that its techniques for performance are a complete mystery to the average person. People are constantly boasting, "I can't read a note." This falsely assumes that some special talent is required for a musical experience of any kind. Musical performance requires a language that very few people can either read or write, and this requirement, unfortunately, has created a handicap to its casual or serious study. But it is the repeated hearing of a masterpiece that really counts. The ability to read a note or a score is completely unnecessary for a listening thrill that will raise "goose flesh." How many babies (who didn't know a note) have been sung or hummed to sleep by their mothers? How many men (who didn't know a note) have taken up arms and marched to the defense of their loved ones and their country to the stirring music of a martial band? How do we avoid putting our child on trial when he goes out into the world?

He can be wonderfully exposed to great music even before he begins kindergarten by the frequent, and perhaps subtle, playing of great music on the family phonograph (hi-fi or stereo set). Fortunately, some kind of reproducing set can be purchased for as low as $25. And if the family budget doesn't permit much spending for records, almost every library has a record collection from which recordings can be borrowed in the same manner as books. After his child starts school, every parent should consider that his child's development is being impoverished, if circumstances permit, if he isn't taken to at least one professional concert, one great play professionally acted, visited one art gallery, or read one of the world's masterpieces each and every year until his child is through high school. As the fun and excitement of becoming involved in the performing and fine arts are being experienced, one of every parent's most rewarding challenges is to create good attitudes towards the arts. Much of the backwardness in musical taste can be blamed on the insistence of some well-intentioned but narrow-minded scholars who have persisted in considering the potential audience for good music an automatically limited one. This is snobbery of the most superficial stripe. Symphony orchestras, ballet and opera companies, repertory theaters, and concert series are still too generally regarded as objects of charity whose support is perhaps one's duty but hardly one's honest pleasure. The very word culture seems to create in the minds of too many a curious suspicion bordering on contempt, and the "highbrow" or "egghead" may be held up to ridicule. Such a situation cannot be relieved by either snobbery or hypocrisy. The sincere parent who wants to enrich his child's (and his own) life must find ways of removing the mystery and the mumbo-jumbo from the world's great and permanent compositions—or other cultural arts masterpieces—and help reach the enormous audience that is still virtually untouched. Parents can ask both themselves and their children as they hear great music (no matter through what medium): What does that piece make me think or feel? What did I hear? Did I like that? Why did the composer use violins rather than a piano? What color would best describe the sound of the flute? Why did the composer use that color? What color would I have used if I had composed that piece? It will be in answering this kind of question that parents and children can become involved in the excitements of musical experiences. It is not likely that anyone will ever become excited about music if, after he hears a piece, he asks himself (or his child): How much does a tuba weigh? Has that performer ever been on television? Or, for the kiss of death in developing an interest in listening to music: Was the last statement of the fugue subject to retrograde? What we are concerned with is selling ourselves (and our children) the fun and excitement and the joy of great and enobling music. We are not concerned with selling tubas, or television programs, or the technical forms of musical composition. And it is this department's belief that the best way is for us to discover and then articulate our own thoughts and feelings about what a certain piece of music does for us. This we can do by ourselves in listening at home or with our families after attending a concert together.