Open the Door Through The ." When first we read it, there came to mind the words of the Master, as recorded in Revelation 3:20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him, and he with me. We remember what President David O. McKay said to a group of missionaries in reference to this verse of scripture. In essence he said, no matter what your task in the Church may be, when you go forth in the strength of your calling, the Lord goes with you, for there are many ways to "knock at the door," and blessed is he or she who hears and answers.

Looking at it in this light, perhaps we can gain a different perspective for our calling. Quality and Magnitude of Magazine

Now a word about the quality and magnitude of your Magazine. The following comments were made by the wife of an eastern university president when she obtained a copy of The from a friend. I took the copy home with me out of courtesy, and not really intending to read it. But then, out of curiosity, I began to glance through the pages, stopping to read an article by David O. McKay. This led us to read it through.

It has been a long time since we have seen any magazine that so impressed us with its lofty principles and useful information for women. We could not find one blemish of off-color material, nor was it suggestive in any way, which as we all know, is a rarity today. From this we have become interested in other Mormon literature.

We cannot attempt to assess the impact of the Magazine fully. Just how do you determine or measure how much it meant in the life of a sweet soul who joined the Church, and because of the attitude of her husband, was denied any association with her Church? She couldn't attend her meetings, nor affiliate in any way. Her contact with the Church severed, she was heartbroken, and then an idea occurred: perhaps he will let me subscribe to a Church publication. She pled with him, and at last he agreed, but just one. Her choice was The , and for six and one-half years, this was her only contact with the Church. The only voice!

Magazine Production
The task of producing the Magazine is a formidable one. We are now ( ) printing, in the English edition, approximately 260,000 Magazines each month. Each issue requires about forty giant rolls of paper, 56,000 pounds, nearly a railroad car open the door through The and one-half, or twenty-eight tons. If you could stretch this out in a continuous length, it would reach out for 225 miles thirty-five inches wide.

Many people are part of the team required to do the job: the Magazine editorial staff, contributing writers from the Church, artists, production coordinators, typotitors, lithographic technicians, cameramen, color experts, plate makers, pressmen, binders, deliverymen, mailers, saleswomen, and office workers are all instrumental in providing this excellent publication each and every month.

If there is one thing we have learned in twenty years of selling, it is this: There are hundreds of volumes and countless booklets published on the subject of salesmanship, each one filled with methods of sure-fire success, and you may have some of these, as we do. However, we believe these can be condensed into four main points, keeping in mind that you are functioning in the Lord's work.

1. Be prepared with the facts.
2. Know where you are going.
3. Make the calls.
4. Ask for the order.

These four items suggest several sub-headings, and we shall mention a few of these.

1. Become familiar with your product and know what is inside.
2. Know the subscription rate. (We once encountered a representative who didn't.)
3. Know the expiration dates on subscriptions in your territory.
4. Know how the Magazine will be sent to the homes and about when it will arrive. Know how to issue a receipt properly.

Compile a simple "sales kit" that may contain, among other items:
a. Some sample copies of the Magazine.
b. The pertinent facts.
c. A good success story about the Magazine.
d. Receipt book, pen, and calendar.
e. A list of advantages in having the Magazine in the home.
f. Some of your own creativity.

7. Know something about the sisters you will call upon.

1. Secure an up-to-date listing of the sisters of your ward or branch.
2. Check the names and addresses for accuracy.
3. Make an appointment and define a time limit for it.
4. Be on time and hold to the time limit.
5. Know something about the sisters you will call on, so your presentation can be tailor-made to suit each situation that you may encounter.

Go out prayerfully. Face-to-face is best. Be enthusiastic. Be sold yourself, first. Mention some of the advantages of the Magazine. Sell benefits!
A. The Magazine specifically designed for the sisters of the Church.
B. It has high standards.
C. It contains messages from the prophet to the women of the Church. It is fun to read. Educational. Informative. It contains lesson material. It contains special features. Its literary value is high. It is a valuable source reference.

Make your calls brief. There is a classic story on this point. It has to do with Pat Donahue of the Ortho-Vent Shoe Company, Salem, Virginia. He is a salesman who cannot talk or hear. He is a deaf mute. But he is the company's number-one salesman, having sold twenty-five pairs of shoes his first week. And he does it with a series of simple cards that briefly state his purpose, the product's advantages, and the price.

Show the product—the Magazine. Never argue. You may win the argument, but you will probably lose the sale. Bring out the hidden objection; perhaps it is a just one.

The choice-question is one of the best ways to close the sale. For example: "Do you want to pay for your Magazine with cash or check?" "Shall we have the first issue begin with October or November?"

Whatever you do, ask for the order!

If an objection arises, consider it, then go back over the strong selling points and close again.

Now, in conclusion, we hope that you will remember, above all, that you are serving your Heavenly Father in a way that can bring light and encouragement to the sisters in your area. Every Magazine placed in the homes of the Church is helping to combat, perhaps in a small way, the tremendous load of low standard publications dumped on to the public every day.

May the Lord bless you in your efforts.
I testify to the fact that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that he directs the affairs of his kingdom through his prophet President McKay, and we are all recipients of the blessings that result from service and dedication in his work. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.