To visit the sick before I put them in the vase. See!" He lifted them up. There was a mass of white sogginess gluing the stems together.

Louise looked from the flowers to Bobby's proudly smiling face. "That's nice," managed to say. Satisfied, Bobby put the flowers down and went back for the last vase whose arrangement could be called 'various.' Bobby had picked a few of every type of flower he could find, and some weren't even flowers! There were small yellow flowers from the ditchbank. Their poor little stems were so short that he had balanced their blooms on the edge of the vase, like children hanging their chins over the backs of chairs. A few early blooms, with most of their petals shaken off, stood tall and bare in the center. There were some field daisies and some purple ones that were definitely weeds. Standing aloof in the bunch was a rosebud. Bobby pointed to it proudly and said, "I got that one from my Daddy's bush."

"Bobby, they are all lovely. Thank you very much," she said softly. The little boy walked carefully back over to the wing chair and sat down. He looked at Louise's legs and asked her, "Do they hurt?"

"No, Bobby, not really." There was silence for a while.

"Would you like a peanut butter sandwich? I make them good."

"No, thank you."

"You don't have to worry about the bread knife being dirty. I washed all the flower juice off of it and dried it real nice. I can cut bread in slices, too. Sometimes they fall into crumby pieces, but most of the time I can cut bread into whole slices. Let me fix you a big fat peanut butter sandwich, okay?"

"IT wish you could, Bobby, but the doctor said I'm not supposed to eat things like that until I can get up and walk around." Louise looked at Bobby's face slowly losing its sunshine smile, so she softly added, "But if you like, you can get me an apple from the refrigerator. You may have one, too."

"I'll get one for you," he said, "but I can't have one because I'm visiting you."

Louise was so busy watching Bobby walking proudly into the kitchen to 'help' her that the knock on the front door startled her.

"Come in," she called.

Sister Johnson came in.

"Is Bobby still here? He said he was coming over to visit you, but that was quite a while ago and I don't want him to tire you out."

"Oh, no, Bobby's not tiring me out. He has been helping me." Louise gestured with her hand to indicate the new flower arrangements.

Sister Johnson smiled and walked over to the television to balance the lilacs better in their vase. As she turned and poked the flowers, they assumed a more traditional look.

"Yes, he is a big help at times, isn't he?" she asked half smiling.

In the kitchen the water tap was turned on and the splashing sounds meant Bobby was dutifully washing the apple before bringing it in. The two women looked at each other with understanding.

"Sister Farmer, would you like to go to church with us this evening?"

"I'd love to go. I miss not going to my meetings, but I just can't sit that long on those benches."

"T've got that all figured out," said Sister Johnson. "We can put all of the children in the very back of our station wagon, and you can sit sideways on the seat going there. When we get there, you can use our aluminum chaise lounge, you know, the folding one with green webbing that we bought last summer."

Louise Farmer looked around her front room and thought how nice it would be to get out of the house. She had so missed partaking of the sacrament.

"If I could sit at the very back," she said, "I will go with you. Thank you so very much for asking me."

Bobby came out of the kitchen with a bright apple in his hand.

"Hello, Mother. Did you come visiting the sick, too?" he asked.

"That's part of it," Sister Johnson said, smiling, "but mostly I came to get my visiting boy."

"Did I visit you all right?" Bobby asked Louise.

"Yes, Bobby, you visited me just fine. I'm glad you came." She held out her hand and Bobby took it, "and please come again."

"I will," said Bobby, as he went out the door.

To Visit the Sick

"We'll be by to pick you up fifteen minutes before church," said Sister Johnson, as she closed the door.

Louise looked over her now silent house and smiled at her new flowers. Somehow, the dust on things didn't look quite so bad. The water spot on the floor was slowly drying to a dull uneven shadow, but her daughter would clean that up when she came to clean tomorrow.

Let's see, she thought, to herself, what can I wear to church? Then she smiled at herself, because she realized that when a woman starts wondering what she can wear, she is well on the road to recovery.