The Sky Is Blue Again Sylvia Probst Young On a day in late autumn, when the clouds hung oppressively low and a mournful wind cried through the bare, brown trees, I closed my door and walked hurriedly across the field to the home of a friend. My thoughts, as I walked along, were dark as the day. I was lonely, disappointed, sick at heart, feeling that life had hurt me more than I could bear. Nothing seemed really worthwhile anymore. I needed to talk to someone—I wanted sympathy, and so I went to her—a woman who is my friend. She was in her little garden behind the house, digging some carrots for the soup she was making. "It's the kind of a day for good, homemade vegetable soup," she exclaimed, after greeting me warmly. "Come in, I have a nice fire, and we can talk." I apologized for coming so unexpectedly, but she quickly corrected me, "Friends don't need previous appointments; it's a compliment to have you come whenever you will."

Sitting on her worn divan, I talked, and she listened, sitting close beside me, her eyes deep with feeling and understanding. She heard my bitterness and heartache, shared my tears. Her hand, rough from work and knotted by arthritis, lay gently on mine. I felt the strength of her, the comfort she gave without saying a word—she who had known so much of sorrow herself.

When the soup was done, she brought it in on a tray, with homemade bread and apricot marmalade, and I thought it was the best lunch I had ever had. Too quickly the hour passed, and it was time for me to go. I didn't want to, but I knew that I must. At the door, I put an arm around her. "Thank you," I said simply.

"Feel so much better now," I added. "Could you possibly know how much you have helped me?" "Don't know why," she said, "I never seem to know what to say, all I can do is to listen and try to understand." Then she raised her eyes upward.

"Oh, look!" she exclaimed brightly, "the sky is blue again, tomorrow will be a better day." Looking up, I saw that she was right, a big patch of blue was pushing the clouds away, and a ray of sunlight gleamed down. Walking back home with a new perspective, I thought how infinitely wise she was without knowing it. "I just listen and try to understand," she had said, but oh, the strength she gave in the listening! For to listen is the highest compliment one can give another—to listen and to understand. How rare and precious is a listener. Her words at parting had given me much to think about—"The sky is blue again." Certainly all things pass away—sorrow, just as cloudy skies, cannot last indefinitely. "Tomorrow will be a better day." Yes, tomorrow would be a better day because of the selflessness—the charity, of a wonderful friend.