[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Gold is Where You Find Porter]

"Gold is Where You Find lt'"
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter EOPLE in California are goP ing to the hills to pan gold. Out of work many of them can find enough of the precious metal to buy their food and barest necessities.
They take with them their blankets, canned goods, —possibly a cook-stove that burns wood,—sometimes a tent.
Only their utensils are conveyed to these modern gold fields via a flivver rather than on the backs of burros as in the days of fortynine.
Unemployment and the present high price of gold is causing some of the old fields to be re-scratched.
Mint canyon which lies between Los Angeles and Palmdale is a favored locality.
Rumor has it that the first gold recorded in the "land of bright colors" was found here. An Indian, herding cattle for the Padres at the San Fernando Mission, dug up a wild onion root with his knife.
With it he unearthed several good sized gold nuggets. But it wasn't till white men, some of them members of the Mormon Battalion, saw it gleaming in the water at Sutter's Mill, that it became generally known.
Small placer mines are scattered in the brown sand on the hills of the California side near Yuma, Arizona.
These have been worked at a small profit for years.
Miners are confronted with the dilemma of carrying their ore down to the Colorado river to be washed, or getting the water up to the higher workings.
Another prospective field is the desert beyond Barstow. Death Valley, despite its intriguing reputation, has never produced rich mines. Death Valley Scotty recently invited the members of the fashionable Los Angeles Breakfast Club to hitch their horses at the posts of his million dollar castle.
Some say that the money that built this picturesque domicile on the desert was put up by Scotty's Chicago partner, a Mr. Johnson. But it was a western myth that the spectacular host had a secret mine from which he drew vast wealth for his forays into civilization when he chartered special trains and threw gold coins to the people on Spring street.
Certain it is, though Scotty has been shadowed and nearly murdered the source of his wealth is still undisclosed.
There is still gold in the hills, though California has produced more gold than any other place in the world. In 1848 five million was taken out of the soil. By 1863 production had jumped to sixtytive million.
Subsequently it reached the staggering sum of one billion, twenty-nirie million. Midas-like stories of those frontier days outstrip the Arabian Nights. A widow, in 1850, bought a horse at Marysvale and went to Downeyville to open a boarding house. She put upa tent.
While sweeping it out with an improvised broom of pine needles she unearthed a gold nugget which assayed at $35. This.
Spurred her on to digging and she acquired $32,000, in four days. A man, armed with a knife, cut three and a half pounds of solid gold out of a hollow as big as a wash basin.
Another man hired five Indians, "GOLD [lS WHERE YOU FIND IT" and took out $80,000 from a wondrously rich ledge. A lone sailor got $1,500 in two weeks. An earlyday funeral offered a unique experience. An out-of-town minister had been imported to officiate. As the coffin was about to be lowered into the ground one of the mourners espied a good-sized gold nugget. The pall bearers and other spectators immediately began to spread out and lay off 25 foot claims.
Only the minister continued with the services. One industrious miner became ill. On leaving to hunt a doctor he carefully buried his cache. He located the place by figuring that the shadows of two pine trees would cross there in twenty-eight days. He was delayed with illness and convalescence for several months at Sacramento.
Imagine his consternation on his return to find that a sawmill had been built there and all of the trees of the vicinity cut down! NO8RTH SAN JUAN is credited with producing from five to six hundred million dollars. All of the ground around Downeyville has been worked.
Only under the Court House, built in 1854, was virgin soil. An official heard a tapping noise under the floor. A miner had tunneled 200 feet, camouflaging his work, to reach the rich ground under the structure. A pair of gold scales still preserved in northern California has weighed out 55 million in dust and nuggets. The Empire Star, world's deepest mine which measures 3,500 feet in a vertical line, has produced for seventy years.
Primitive mining was done by means of sluice boxes, tunnels, windlass and panning. As the ore got scarcer hydraulic mining came 207 into use.
Great streams of water, under terrific pressure was turned on the cliffs.
This caused silt to fill up the Sacramento river, and was deposited in San Francisco Bay. It interfered with navigation and covered up orchards and roused spirited opposition from agricultural California.
Justice then was promptly administered, a criminal often being tried and executed the same day. In the cruel frontier where the loss of horse or food frequently spelt death, robbery as well as murder was punishable by hanging. The gambler was often a coldblooded individual, not of the heroic type depicted by Bret Harte. At one joint twenty dollar gold pieces kept getting lost. One of the spectators was a German with a long beard which he wore tucked inside his collar. One of the men suddenly grabbed it and yanked it out.
Several gold pieces fell to the floor. The gentleman, like the Outcasts of Poker Flat, was given three hours to leave town. At Aurora was a young man who was a failure at everything he tried. Samuel Clemens was offered a job as reporter on a paper at Virginia City. He walked 120 miles and subsequently blossomed out as Mark Twain! FANTASTIC prices prevailed. On news of a strike a burro might sell for $500.
Lacking that two miners would carry their grub-stake on a pole suspended from their shoulders. A pound of flour sold for $1.50.
Delivery of a letter cost a dollar. Two barrels of whiskey dispensed in two days brought $7,000.
Gold hunters traveled from Utah by ox team, They came up the coast by boat, but arrived in California, wheelbarrows 208 and pushcarts were requisitioned to get to the gold fields. HOST cities are the ruins of worked out mining claims.
Their erstwhile inhabitants have departed with the bullion.
Rhyolite is an example of these with its buildings falling into decay,— the haunt of the coyote and the jackrabbit.
Even the railroad deserted it and the steel rails were pulled up and shipped to Russia during the war. The empty, handsome station house still stands.
Here is the famous house built of bottles many of them lovely lilac with the desert sun.
Another form of monument to the gold seekers are a group of crosses erected in Sonora, over the line, in Mexico. A party from Arizona suffered terribly from the heat in crossing the bone-strewn El Camino Diablo (Road of the Devil). At Atlas Springs fortyfive emigrants perished and were interred there in 749, A; party of bandits who held up colored. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stage coaches for a living hid out in the hills for two years.
While there they discovered a rich silver vein.
They sold it to Senator Stewart of Nevada.
Afterwards they hung thriftily around to lift the silver after he had mined it. He outwitted them by having the white metal smelted into 600 pound cannon balls (instead of the usual bars), which he shipped by freight. The Bull Frog mine, so called because of its green speckled appearance, was _ discovered by Shorty Harris, dean of the old prospectors.
Some of these ancient wanderers have found and lost several fortunes.
Some still follow the elusive trail of fortune.
They are often grub-staked by more prosperous copatriots who share in any find that they may make.
These men travel with their pack mules from water-hole to water-hole.
They are fast disappearing.