[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Companionship Fletcher]

Companionship By Linda S. Fletcher I thought how lonely God must be.
Remote amid Eternity, Where on the shining, top-most throne, In grandeur dwelt He all alone. I felt His loving heart must yearn For Someone to whom He might turn, When, e'en amid the stars He grieved With pain which could not be relieved. And then, my dear one, I met you— I gazed into your eyes and knew That I could lonely never be With one like you to dwell with me.
Then knew I God dwelt not alone On the white marble of His throne— That solace is not Him denied, For His Beloved is at His side!
Many a Milestone is Marked
With a Cross 
By Caroline Eyring Miner total aggregate of troubles in the world?
Think of the numberless victims of flood, fire, earthquake, the toll of the stark visitor death, the countless unfortunates in our reform and penal institutions, the great army of the handicapped, the deaf, the blind, the lame. And now against this mountain of trouble place your own particular little trouble and rejoice in the mercy of God to you. In one of our gayest summer resorts, seemingly sheltered with the umbrella of splendor and glamorousness from the rains of trouble and disaster, I chanced to spend several vacation seasons.
There were eight of us girls at the resort who "chummed. Together." We laughed and danced and sang in the artificial hilarious way that was expected of us and no one would have guessed that each girl guarded within her heart underneath her butterfly wings one of the world's troubles. It is unusual the way in which these little trouble bugs that Pandora set free in the world have rested their wings and made their homes.
They have not concentrated in any particular spot but have nested at random throughout the world. On one particular evening after our work and entertaining was D ID you ever contemplate the over, we eight girl chums, as usual, gathered together in one of the dormitory rooms for a little light chatter. And many times after the cocktail of light talk was over, the main course was served and we chatted in a more serious vein.
This night in question our main talk turned at last to what we called our "secret sorrows" and strange to say there was not a single one of the eight girls who did not bare her heart and produce a family skeleton. One girl had a brother who was born an invalid, one, girl had been told by a physician that she could never be a mother, one had a sister who had been born deaf, one an aged father who was blind, one had no parents, one a family hereditary tendency to insanity, and another a brother who was in the Federal prison.
After the talk was over and we had all wept, we felt united in the common burden of the cross. Nature, or God, or whatever we wish to name the distributor of crosses on humanity is no respecter of persons and we who feel over-burdened and are harboring within our bosoms the venomous serpent, self-pity, need only to look about us to see our neighbors one'and all laboring and straining under the load of even heavier burdens.