[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: RicketsA Deficiency Middleton]

Rickets—a Deficiency Disease By Lucy Rose Middleton ICKETS is a disease of infants characterized by impaired nutrition of the entire body and alteration in the growing bones. It is a disease of the first and second years of life, rarely beginning before the sixth month. It comes on insidiously about the time the child is cutting teeth and before it begins to walk. The condition exists before it can be recognized and if the disease is mild the symptoms are often overlooked.
There are, however, several very striking manifestations. In most instances. The normal process of dentition is much disturbed and late teething is a marked feature. The teeth may be small and badly formed. The bones of the arms and legs show signs of under-development.
Often they are bowed from the weight of the child in creeping and walking. The fontanelles, or, in other words, the soft spots, are slow in closing.
There are changes in the ribs. At the end of each rib a lumpy enlargement may be distinctly seen, and easily made out by touch.
These changes proceed slowly and the general symptoms are in proportion to their extent. The child may become emaciated: or, if fat, will look pasty and flabby.
Often nervousness, irritability, and sleeplessness are conspicuous.
There is frequently a very bad posture, large, protruding abdomen, rounded shoulders, and evidence of a misshapen spine.
Children who suffer from rickets are more prone to develop respiratory diseases, such as colds, bronchitis, pneumonia, and even tuberculosis.
Rickets is a very widespread disease. It exists in practically all colder climates. It is most prevalent in large, over-populated cities, and particularly marked among the less well-to-do who are improperly housed and under-nourished.
There are relatively few r-ases in rural communities.
This fact suggests the most important factor in the treatment and prevention of rickets.
This factor is sunshine, or its substitute in the form of artificially produced ultra-violet rays. If the uncovered skin is amply exposed to the sun or to ultra-violet rays, rickets does not occur and rickety children rapidly improve.
These rays are not effective through window glass.
Direct exposure must be given. It is well known that negroes and other dark-skinned people living in the temporate regions are more prone to rickets than the white race.
When they are treated, negroes show less improvement and require correspondingly larger doses of sunlight to get beneficial results. The pigment of their skin is resistant to the sun.
Rickets is pactically unknown in the tropics where the sun rays are intense and people live outof-doors.
Another important preventative and curative agent is cod liver oil. It is a curious fact that two such dissimilar things as sunlight and fish oil should be useful for the same purpose. Cod liver oil contains Vitamin D, the rickets-preventing vitamin.
This substance is of great importance to the general growth and development of the body. It regulates the utilization of two most valuable pone-building materials, RICKETS—A DEFICIENCY DISEASE calcium and phosphorus. In addition to cod liver oil, butter, egg yolk, and whole milk are our best food sources of this vitamin.
Recently halibut liver oil has been found as effective as cod liver oil.
Care must be taken to protect all 223 babies and small children from rickets. Cod liver oil should be given regularly in ample amounts, at least during tne colder months of the year. In the warm season, sun _ baths should be a part of the daily routine. RECIPIES Corn Omelet 4 eggs 4 tablespoons milk 1 cup corn 2 tablespoons butter YQ teaspoon salt Pepper Beat eggs slightly, just enough to blend yolks and whites, add milk, corn, and seasoning. Put butter in frying pan, and when melted turn in mixture.
When it cooks, lift with spatula, letting uncooked part run underneath until all is creamy consistency.
Increase heat that it may quickly brown underneath.
Fold and turn on hot platter.
Garnish with parsley and serve with crisp bacon. Finnan Haddie a la King 1 tablespoon butter 14 cup mushrooms \Y green pepper 1 tablespoon flour 14, teaspoon salt 2 cups rich milk 1 cup finnan haddie 2 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks \4, teaspoon chopped onion Melt tablespoon of butter, in it cook the mushrooms, peeled and broken in pieces, and green pepper, chopped fine.
Cook and stir five minutes; add flour and salt and stir until well blended. Add milk and stir until sauce boils. Set over hot water, add finnan haddie, cut into pieces.
Cover and let stand to become hot.
Cream two tablespoons butter, beat in yolks of two eggs, then add onion juice and pepper. Add to the first mixture and stir until egg is set.
Serve in sections of hot baked potato Fresh Pieplant Pie 1 cup sugar 14, cup quick-cooking tapioca 3 cups rhubarb, cut in one-half inch lengths Plain pastry Mix sugar, rhubarb, and tapioca well together and put into pie dish lined with uncooked pastry.
Place pastry strips across the top, pressing them securely to the edges which have been moistened with cold water.