Vol. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1899. No. 21.


CONTENTS:
	Labor and Expansion—Cornelia S. Robinson.
In Memoriam. March 17th Celebration—E. Crane
Watson. Anniversary Day at Denver—Jane W.
M. Skolfield. Notes and News. Address—Em-
meline B. Wells. R. S. Reports. Gone to Rest
—Mary A Gardner. A Sketch of the Jaredites—
E. H. Lyon. Reorganize the Red Cross. Massa-
chusetts Debate on Polygamy. Notice—R. B. Pratt.
	EDITORIAL:—Notices. In Our Day. Anniver-
sary and New Hall. A Pleasant Gathering.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Our Old Folks—Alofa. A Mother’s
Prayer—Nina Eckart. The Magic Key—R. N F.


[Column 1]
	OUR OLD FOLKS.
No matter which way I look today,
There are heads of white or of silver gray;
There are shoulders bowed and bent;
There are hardened hands that tremble so;
There are feet that falter, so weak and slow;—
Sweet graces which Time has lent—
There are furrowed brows, and eyes grown
	dim,
As from trouble and toil and tears;
There are hollow cheeks and quivering lips,
That have followed the flight of years.
No matter where I turn today,
There are voices near me that seem to say,
  “Oh, what beauty mine eyes behold
In the good and noble who mingle here
To partake of the love, to feel the cheer—
Those beautiful souls grown old—
Grown old neath their burdens of toil and
	care,
Grown old in the school of love,
Grown old with the griefs that have been their
	share;
Grown dear to their God above.”

Each bending form doth a story tell,
'Tis old but true—you may read it well—
The tale of paternal care:
“To provide a home for my girls and boys,
To relieve their wants, to increase their joys,
And to give to each his share
Of happy days and of pleasant hours,
To make his pathway bright,
I have borne the heavy weight of toil,
From early morn till night.”

Those trembling, hardened, sunbrowned
	hands
Have scattered blessings in many lands,
And in many a cheerless cot;
They have sown the seed, they have held the
	plow,
Have tenderly pressed the fevered brow;
Have gifts to the needy brought;
They have deftly fashioned the beautiful
	robes,
Which their sons and daughters wear;
They have lifted the curse from a barren land.
And have made it good and fair.

Those feet that travel so very slow,
And best when they have not far to go,
Once moved with an easy grace.
And they went on errands of love and cheer,
On missions of mercy far and near,
Scarce seeking a resting place,
And no path was too rough, no road too 
	long,
For those willing feet to try,

[Column 2]
Not e’en when it led o’er trackless plains,
So dreary, parched and dry.

Those eyes now dim were once so bright,
They beamed with joy and love and light;
But the passing tide of years
Has found them perusing the gospel plan, 
Or seeking the good in erring man, 
Has found them dimmed with tears; 
Has found them keeping their nightly watch
By some poor sufferer’s bed—
What wonder if they are dim today,
If the luster and light have fled!

Those quivering lips have made our heaven,
Have chided wrong, have counsel given,
Have soothed life’s storms away;
They have told of faith and of holy love.
Of a death below, of a life above;
They have taught our lips to pray;
They have sung the Great Redeemer’s praise
In accents clear and mild;
Have led the wayward sinner home
From haunts by sin defiled.

The furrowed brow, the silvered hair, 
The cheek grown hollow with toil and care
Are tokens of honor due—
Due from their pretty, red-cheeked girls,
With dainty gowns and glossy curls,
And from budding manhood, too.
Then give them a smile as you pass them by,
And bid them a kind good-day;
And be ready to lend a helping hand
To assist them along their way.

And for our dear fathers and mothers true,
May the way grow brighter the whole day
	through,
And the cross less hard to bear.
We know the path has been often drear,
With doubt and danger lurking near,
With heartfelt griefs to share;
But the light that shines from our Father’s,
	throne
E’en now you can dimly see—
In that beautiful home, oh, how full your joy,
How complete shall your glory be!
								ALOFA.
	Written for the old folks’ entertainment at
Fairview Feb. 22, 1899.


[Column 1]
LABOR AND EXPANSION.

	In our new possessions Hawaii and Porto
Rico we have a problem, the magnitude of
which we have scarcely begun to realize,
listen as attentively as we may; the pulse of
the nation beats irregularly with the proba-
bility of augmenting the labor difficulties
now being experienced in the south.
	But war gave us Porto Rico, we could
scarcely help ourselves, and Hawaii—well
we have Hawaii.
	If we should ever regret their acquisition
or be called upon to apologize for annexing
either island, at least we may make the
plausible excuse that they are within the
hemisphere ! Jealous of the principle in-
volved in the Monroe doctrine, we may
with a degree of honorable consistency
say to all monarchial or aristocratic forms of
government—hands off! No governmental
institutions lower than a democracy shall
exist in this hemisphere !
	Here it may be observed that with the

[Column 2]
possibility of suffrage in both these inferior
territories it would be an insult to the in-
telligence of our women suffragists should
they be suspected of advocating the annex-
ation of a still more inferior country, name-
ly, the Philippines.
	It seems necessary to retrace the events
that led to the first decisive blow in our
controversy with Spain. Suffice it to say
that curiously enough this blow was struck
in another hemisphere, and resulted in a
victory without parallel in the history of
warfare, and the Stars and Stripes floated
over Manila. Thus the exigencies of war
brought us face to face with a question of
which we had never before even dreamed,
and the excitement of victory may be urged
as a partial excuse for having made two
mistakes, first in demanding the island and
second in paying $20,000,000, practically
bearing all the expense of the war, in that
direction, which by debauchery, oppression
and treachery Spain had brought upon her-
self, a transaction without parallel, consider-
ing the character and location of the terri-
tory.
	Now that the enthusiasm of victory has
subsided, we shall have no excuse if we
make a third mistake. Mamia will be re-
tained as a coaling station, an advantage
which could have been secured without the
burden of possession, but what advantage
can be derived from the rest of the islands.
In the first place they are so remote from
the United States that affiliation would be
impossible under the most favorable con-
ditions for the next five hundred years!
Secondly, the resources consist of products
almost wholly extractive or agricultural,
and even though the islands are rich in
such products, what do they offer us that is
not at our very doors, even in our great
northwest? What climate necessary to a
peculiar product that we cannot find some-
where within the boundary of the United
States? Aye, and where great tracts of
fertile land may be had for the asking, with
no increase of burden to our government,
nor additional taxation to our citizens.
	It is said the resources of the islands are
great and trade will be increased, as with
annexation the duties will be abolished;
and what advantage would this be to the
nation with labor in the Philippines at ten
cents per day?
	On the one hand we are seriously con-
sidering the advisability of more adequately
restricting immigration, and on the other
hand we are struggling to annex ten mil-
lions of people at one stroke, whose average
wage level is ten cents per day; a number
it would take years to annex by immigra-
tion. In this situation what becomes of
the principle involved in our protective
policy ?
	We pride ourselves, and justly, upon the
fact that the protective policy in fostering
industry prohibits the competition of cheap
labor, and thus maintains the American
standard of wages. Shall we abandon the
beneficent policy at one stroke? Again, we
all agree that previous immigration has
made this country what it is. Surely these
immigrants have a right to consideration.


[Column 1]  
   It may be asked how this labor will
come in direct competition. The fact that
capitalists are always seeking the lowest
cost of production (and rightly) will be
sufficient reason for the removal to the
Philippines of numerous factories, should
they be annexed, and taking advantage of
the low priced labor send their products,
here in competition free of all duty. In
the nature of our chosen policy, have we
the right to permit this course? This same
policy conserved the market to the producer;
he has spent his time and energies in the
production of capital, and the acquisition
of wealth; he has been lifted to the plane of
opulence and labor as a market has con-
tributed the means. Now a new era dawns,
and the policy that has directly benefited
the capitalist and indirectly the laborer 
should be made to react and directly benefit
the laborer.
   This can only be accomplished by con-
serving the reactionary forces within the
group or nation, and the benefits can only
be retarded by the introduction of deterior-
ating forces, such as the Philippines, which
cannot be doubted when we recognize the
social, economic and moral status of the
islands. The social plane must be the low-
est when their only wants consist of shel-
ter, food and clothing to partially cover
their nakedness, and perhaps ornamental
decorations for their naked bodies. Since
their social wants are so meagre and simple,
their industries cannot be complex, and
therefore we find them almost wholly in the
stage of hand labor.
   Their moral status is unmistakable when
we recall the prevailing custom of cannibal-
ism in many of the islands. No matter how
temptingly the feast may be prepared, al-
though in the preparation the body is stuf-
fed with sweet potatoes, breadfruit and
bananas laid on taro leaves, we can scarcely
divest ourselves of the horror of the thought
of human sacrifice for such a purpose.
   Believe in absorption as we may, assured-
ly we prefer that accomplished by social
affiliation to that of physical assimilation!
But joking aside, what horrors may be de-
picted in the subjugation of this race of
barbarians and cannibals, in comparison to
which the Indian massacres in the North-
west were child’s play. Added to this
would be the inevitable increased taxation
necessary to the maintenance of an army
and navy adequate to cope with the diffi-
culties of the situation. And all to what
end?
   A people in the stage of hand labor can-
not furnish a market for a machine using
country, and the only advantage would
accrue to the capitalist individually, to the
great disadvantage of the wage earner of
America. True the introduction of factor-
ies might benefit the Filipinos.
   Texas’ annual cotton crop is between
three and four million bales, yet the great
state boasts of only four insignificant cotton
mills, and our South awaits the further
coming of the factories, the only solution to
the distressing problem that lies in our
midst, and in addition we now have Hawaii
and Porto Rico and the responsibility of
Cuba.
   How dare we pass them over and direct
our interest and capital to so remote a peo-
ple as the Filipinos?
   What duty, in the name of humanity, do
we owe to the Filipinos, that we may with
impunity deny to our own south, our north-
west, our new territories and the immigrants
in our cities and towns? With the out-

[Column 2]
come of neglect in these directions we are
already familiar. By what process of reason-
ing may we benefit other people to the in-
jury of our own? To make it quite clear,
it should be repeated, that to give the
capitalist opportunity to take advantage of
remote low priced labor, to bring it without
impediment in competition with our native
labor, is a crime unpardonable in the present
stage of American civilization and repudi-
ation of protective principle.
   It is the folly of sentimentality that claims
the Filipinoes can be affiliated; there can be
no affiliation with Poles, Bohemians and
Italians who come to our great centres;
here they colonize for that very reason, and
by perpetuating old world customs, be-
come a menace to our social and moral life
and a check to our industrial development,
and with their old world ideas and govern-
ment become dangerous to the permanence
of existing institutions. Witness the growth
of socialism which has made possible the
election of three socialist mayors, one of
them the mayor of Boston.
   If the Poles, Bohemians and Italians,
with whom we brush elbows, cannot be
affiliated, how much less will it be possible
to affiliate ten millions of an alien race iso-
lated in another hemisphere? And if this
is not true, why should our altruism halt
at the Philippines? Why not reach into
Asia and Turkey? Will not the flag carry
civilization to them also? Upon the
principle that would lead us to annex the
Philippines, what right have we to deny
the advantage to those benighted countries ?
Upon what principles, indeed, do our ex-
pansionists draw the line at the Philippines?
Let us not make the fatal mistake of pros-
tituting the purity of our flag by claiming
for it that which it does not do.
   It cannot carry trade to the Philippines;
it would appear that the Filipinos must
learn to wear shirts before there can be a
demand for our factory made goods. No,
our flag does not carry trade, but follows it;
and what trade shall we acquire there that
we have not already possessed at vastly less
cost than the maintenance of the islands as
a territory ? Can the flag give them great-
er liberty than they now enjoy? Why,
they can even eat each other, and by way
of variety, an occasional trader or mission-
ary, without impairing their digestion. Re-
ligious liberty they certainly possess, when
the range is from Catholicism to the most 
revolting forms of fetish worship that these
extremes exist, that the gradations in re-
ligious sentiment do not exist, is abundant
proof that they cannot even affiliate with
themselves. It will take the evolution of
hundreds of years to bring ten millions of
ten cent a day laborers to the point of de-
siring freedom. Need we pause to analyze
their moral status? We can scarcely ex-
pect a moral status within a people who
have not yet learned to wear clothes. Per-
haps this is an error and these islands are a
new Garden of Eden, where the traditional
apple has not yet been plucked; a paradise
from which state in our perhaps mistaken
idea of progress we are ever moving further
away. But seriously, shall we hoist the
flag in a land that can bring us nothing in
products that we do not already or may
produce? Shall we hoist the flag over an
alien people that capitalists may use them
to undersell our home labor ? We will
hoist our flag as an incentive to hope and as
a promise that they shall be sustained on
every plane to which they may arise by
their own efforts.

[Column 3]
   The capitalists have had their era; we
needed them and we need them now; capital
is necessary to the development of extensive
enterprise. It is now in good working or-
der, and it should not be allowed to move
into a foreign land.
   It should be used to fulfill the promise of
our protective policy, and be forced to react
upon our laborers.
   We want more industries; we want great-
er and better facilities for education; we
want our country put in a perfectly sanitary
condition; we want to stamp out the sweat
shops; we want to add dignity to labor; we
want the race problem solved.
   The business of this era is not the acquisi-
tion of new territory, it is to lift the masses
out of the degradation of poverty, and when
this is accomplished, with the superabund-
ance we have on hand, it well be time
enough to lay hold of another hemisphere.
		CORNELIA S. ROBINSON.
   Read before the Woman’s Council at
Washington.


WOMANS EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

	ANN HOSSACK MCGREGOR.
	Ann H. McGregor died at her home in
Salt Lake City, February 4, 1899, after a
long and painful illness due to cancer.
	She was born February 7, 1822, at Bal-
frone, Stirlingshire, Scotland, was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, October 8, 1842. She left her
native land and came to this country in
1849, residing in St. Louis,Mo.,six months,
then in Council Bluffs, la., until 1852. She
traveled across the plains in Capt. Wood’s
company, arriving in Salt Lake City, Sep-
tember, 1852.
	She was the wife of William McGregor,
now deceased. She was the mother of
ten children, and leaves forty one grand-
children and fourteen great grandchildren.
	Sister McGregor has endeared herself to
all by her solicitude for others, and by the
heroic fortitude with which she has borne
her great suffering. In the Second ward she
has come to be familiarly known as the
“Mother of the Ward,” having been a
prominent officer and an enthusiastic work-
er in the Relief Society and other benevo-
lent organizations from the time of their
establishment, and every office she has held
she has filled it with honor. She died firm
in the Gospel, with the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	Funeral services were held on her birth-
day, February 7, 1899, at 12 m., in the 2nd
ward assembly hall.
				HANNAH OLSEN, Sec.


Miss Anthony will sail for England June
2, to attend the quinquennial meeting of
the Woman’s International Council to be
held in London. Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Miss Howland
and other friends are planning to go by the
same steamer. It will be a merry party of
suffragists.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton calls atten-
tion to the fact that in several European
countries taxpaying women are allowed to
vote by proxy. She says: “Only the other
day I was talking with a man from Sweden
who told me that at the last election in his
district he had cast fifteen votes, one for
himself and the rest for his mother, wife
and aunts, all of whom were property hold-
ers.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY DAY AT DENVER.
	By special invitation the Denver branch
of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints met at the home
of Sister Jane W. Manning Skolfield at
1205 Evans St., to commemorate “Anni-
versary Day.”
	The meeting was called to order at 2:30
p. m., by President Eva E. Haley, ten
members responding to roll call. The
guests of the afternoon were Sisters Rosa
Koch of Manassa, Dollie Russell of Cone-
jos, Mamie Dihgee and Mrs. J. T. Jones of


Denver. The meeting opened with sing-
ing “How great the wisdom and the love.”
Prayer by Sister Skolfield. Singing,
“Though deepening trials throng, your
way.” The recording secretary, Sister
Mary W. Ensign, read the minutes of the
previous meeting which were accepted.
She also read the minutes of the first Relief
Society organized at Nauvoo and repub-
lished in the “Exponent,” and afterwards
a statistical and financial report of our
society since its reorganization in Septem-
ber 1898, showing a great deal of valuable
work done by the few active members.
	The corresponding secretary then read a
letter from Mrs. E. B. Wells, the official notices
regarding Anniversary Day and an extract
from the Deseret News of the Utah ladies’
visit to Washington, D. C.
	Sisters Sophia Luce, Mary Ensign and
Florence Benjamin sang as a trio, “O, my
Father.” A very instructive and carefully
prepared paper by Sister Hannah E. Long
was read, entitled “How the Home and
the Mother Influence our Lives.”
	At the conclusion of the program light,
refreshments were served, by the hostess,
assisted by Sister Hannah E. Long. The
house was tastefully decorated in pink and
white, the blinds were drawn to shut out
the dismal, stormy day, numbers of lamps
were lighted, shading from red to white.
	The meeting closed with a vote of thanks 
to the hostess for the pleasant afternoon and 
singing “The time is far spent.” Prayer
by Sister Ellen Rosenvall.
	JANE W. M. SKOLFIELD, Cor. Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Progressive Chinese women have started
a weekly publication called the Feminine
Magazine. The staff consists of women only.
	Women have more sense about machin-
ery in a minute, says Edison, than men
have in a lifetime, and to confirm his belief
he has two hundred women on his pay roll.
	The newly elected president of Sorosis
who has been acting president since the
resignation of Mrs. Mary Dame Hall, Mrs.
D. T. Dennison, is sister to Mrs. May N.
Knaggs, president of the Michigan Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association.
	Mrs. Fanny Humphreys Gaffney, presi-
dent of the National Council of Women,
has been reelected president of the New York
City Society for Political Study. The
society meets every Tuesday afternoon at
226 West 58th St.
	The Countess Schimmelman, who has
given up a royal palace to preach to the
poor and unfortunate, spoke to the convicts
at Joliet, Illinois, on March 12, making an
earnest appeal which affected many of the
men to tears. Later she addressed the wo-
men prisoners.
	Immediately after the Speaker’s gavel
dismissed the 55th Congress, some one on
the floor of the House started up “My
Country ’Tis of Thee.” Immediately others
joined, the galleries caught up the strain
and all the people rose and joined in the
national anthem until the walls echoed to
the sound. At the close General Hender-
son started “Auld Lang Syne” which was
taken up as eagerly; then J. M. Mitchell
led the voices in the “Red, White and Blue.”
Then after cheers for Dewey and Wheeler
and the army and navy heroes generally,
House and galleries grew quiet as they
joined in singing the Doxology.


MARCH 17TH CELEBRATION

Dear Editor:
	I wonder if there are any who care to
read of the unpretentious ward of Parowan,
or rather the Relief Society of this ward?
At all events, we feel that we should be
rendering an account of ourselves, conse-
quently we will write of our celebration oh
the 17th of March.
	At 2 p. m. we held a program meeting,
the time being occupied by a number of the
elderly sisters speaking on the object of the
Relief Society, the good accomplished by
the society, etc., etc., some very appropri-
ate recitations by the younger sisters with
some well chosen songs and sentiments,
making those present feel like saying, “It
is good to be here.”
	In the evening the organization gave a
ball, the members of the society contribut-
ing a dainty lunch and chocolate; this also
was a decided success socially and financial-
ly, for besides all expenses we raised the
ten cent fund for the General Board which
is $15.20, having a membership of one
hundred and fifty two members.
	Many of our members are young mothers
whose first duty is to guard and guide the
precious jewels an indulgent Parent has en-
trusted to them, hence our average at-
tendance is not large, yet there is a certain
magical link that seems to chain us togeth-
er so that whenever we aim for anything in
righteousness we are sure to gain it.
	May the love of God abide with every
such organization the world over, with
wishes that our dear little organ, the “Ex-
ponent,” may be enabled to spread the glad
tidings of Relief Society labors.
				E. CRANE WATSON.


THE MAGIC KEY.

’Twas a novel thing in that distant day,
When females could neither preach, nor pray,
With lifted voice to organize,
A band of women, however wise,
But to found a grand society,
With exalted views of charity,
And with this injunction: “Go feed the poor,
Clothe the naked, bind up the sore,
Visit the feeble, lead the blind,
Also cultivate the female mind,
And provoke the brethren to good works,”— 
Was strange indeed.

And who believed that a magic key 
Was turned that day, for liberty
To have a fuller, broader sway;
That woman, too, might win her way
Upward and onward, till she should stand,
As God originally planned,
When he placed her a beauteous bride,
Happy and free by her husband’s side;
Saying, “be ye one, together reign
Over all the earth, the sea and plain,
All things are yours contained therein,
From the mountain’s crest to the ocean’s brim;
The fruits, the flowers, the birds that fly,
All things that live beneath the sky.”

But alas! there came a mighty fall
From her high estate to a pampered doll,
Or a slave to man, fair woman fell;
Of her durance vile, ah! who shall tell,
Of her cries for freedom, her piteous tears,
Her helpless struggle through all the years. 

But lo! in the western sky a light,
Scattering the murky clouds of night;
And a prophet’s voice is heard to cry— 
Rejoice ye fair ones, your time is nigh,
Break from your shackles, from bondage flee;”
And they answer back, “We will be free,
Long, long, we have waited for thy word,
Thanks be to God, our prayers are heard!”

’Tis fifty seven years today, look back
And mark ye well the toilsome track,
Where are ye now O, womankind?
Your fears as if by a mighty wind,
Or a heaving tide, have been swept away,
Higher and higher ye mount each day, 
The best of earth is yours to gain,
To the topmost heights ye may attain.

But ye of the blessed sisterhood,
That yields such marvelous power for good;


Ye who were called—a chosen band—
Ordained and sealed by a prophet’s hand,
To be a part of that unity,
Which heralds to all men liberty;
In you I see a glorious ray,
Which shall luminate the latter-day.
Already ye teach, exhort and bless,  
And lead in ways of righteousness; 
Yea, speak in tongues and prophecy,
By a mighty gift from Him on high; 
And greater than this shall ye become,
Ye must advance as the years doth run;
No earthly power can bid ye stay,
If ye will but walk in Wisdom’s way;
Your husbands, too, will turn with pride,
To the faithful counselor at his side—
A polished jewel whose virtues rare, 
Will add to his honor anywhere;
Who forgetteth not with womanly ken, 
That she shineth most as a mother of men
Who will laud her fame through eternity,
As she moves in that Grand Equality.		
							R. M. F.
March 17, 1899.


A MOTHER’S PRAYER.

Oh! March winds blow, blow strong I pray,
And waft a message far away
To distant lands, where now there lay 
A soldier, sick and wounded—
Oh! fan his fevered brow and give 
Him strength to rally and to live.

Oh! March winds blow and softly sigh, 
And tell him that he must not die,
Oh! tell him if he’ll only try,
That God may let him rally.
Tell him of the love that waits
To greet him at his dear home gate.

March winds sing to him a song,
And tell him of a love so strong, 
A love which waiting, yearning longs
For his return.
And should he hear the death knell sound, 
Oh! sing and make his heart rebound.

But wind, oh! take for me a prayer 
To One above, oh! bear, please bear 
Just once for me a message there
Unto the King,
Oh! tell Him all my life I give,
If He will let my loved one live.
					NINA ECKART.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1899.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

	During the early part of April there will 
be issued by the Deseret News a new
Church work entitled “The Articles of
Faith,” the same being a series of lectures
on the principal doctrines of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Dr. 
James E. Talmage. The lectures were 
prepared by appointment of the First Presi-
dency, and the book will be published by 
the Church. It is intended for use as a 
text book in Church schools, Sunday 
schools, Improvement associations, quorums
of the Priesthood and other Church organi-
zations in which the study of Theology is 
pursued, and also for individual use among
the members of the Church. The work has 
been approved by the First Presidency, and 
I heartily commend it to the members of 
the Church. 
				LORENZO SNOW.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held on Saturday April 8, 1899,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, this city,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. as usual. It is desirable that there should
be representation from each Stake organiza-
tion of the society, either the president or
other officer should attend. All members of
the society are cordially invited, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Association.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
					President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					Counselors,


[Column 1]
IN OUR OWN DAY.

	The times are replete with interest and
abounding in news just at present with the
cruel war in a foreign land. One may
think less of the terrors of battle because of
the long distance across the seas, but in
every mother’s heart there is a constant
anxiety and yearning, not only for her
own, which is certainly the most agoniz-
ing, but for the boys of “our country,”
and one cannot avoid asking the question,
at least of one’s self, “Is it worth the strug-
gle and the lives of our brave men, the
flower of the country, and when and how
will the battle end?”
	The article published in this issue given
at the National Council in Washington by
Mrs. Robinson, sets forth phases of the

[Column 2]
question which may be pondered upon
with deliberation. Very few if any compre-
hend, even in a small part, what it means to
take possession of the Philippine Islands.
Our women should study it carefully, re-
member that here in this “free Western
land” women have equal rights with men
and should seek to inform themselves on
these momentous subjects of our own day
and time. Ancient history and the wars
of other ages may be and are well worth
study and research, but if one makes her- 
self or himself fairly conversant with this
day, it will be more in keeping with the
spirit of progress of which we are apt to
talk so much and know so little.
	We turn back and applaud the heroes of
the past, military, civic and intellectual,and
neglect those whose lives are interwoven
with the days in which we are living, and
leave it to the future to try to understand
or to accredit those of our own generation.
	As a matter of fact there have been great
men in this century, and greater achieve-
ments in many directions too numerous to
give in a brief article, than in any other
century since the dawn of the Christian era.
	Go over the list of the men whose names
are familiar, and of men and women who
are living today; think of what has been ac-
complished in the century about to close,
and one will find he need not go back to
Greece or Rome or the days of the Crusaders 
or times of chivalry for heroes or heroines.
Current events are worth the closest study,
and if it is expected with the facilities of
this enlightened age to stamp on history’s
page the brightest and most famous record
of advancement in all that is high and
noble, progressive and remarkable, then
the men and women, the boys and girls
now doing battle with life and its enter-
prises must know the living people, the
heroic activities, the brilliant acheivements,
the splendid victories, the thrilling episodes,
as well as the men and women who figured
conspicuously, and whose unparalleled
courage, mental and spiritual, as well as
physical and moral, has made possible the
age extraordinary, surpassing all others in
phenomenal developments, in science, phil-
osophy and all the ’osophies; marvels of the
metaphysical as well as a sublimity of
idealism, and a more positive realism of
common life among the children of men as
it actually exists than the world has ever
known. That there is a great upheaval,
a great crisis approaching no one seems to
doubt who watches the signs of the times,
and especially those filled with inspiration
who write and speak prophetically of
things to come. Justice is to return to
earth and Truth though crushed will rise
again triumphant, and there will be a new
day and a better generation, who will
write and prophesy surpassing what has
ever been since the Savior’s time, and the
lives of the people who keep the laws of
life and health and live righteously will be
prolonged and there will be a chosen peo-
ple who will seek diligently for the
precious treasures of wisdom, knowledge
and understanding that are to be revealed
to the wise and the prudent.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY AND NEW HALL.

	The new hall in the 15th ward has been
completed and was opened for the first
time the 17th of March, 1899. The build-
ing has two stories and a large meeting
hall on the upper floor, with convenient
rooms for entertaining, and cloak rooms,

[Column 2]
etc. This society was one of the first or-
ganized and has always been progressive in
financial affairs, and in Spiritual matters
has been up to the spirit of the times. Its
president, Sarah M. Kimball, who had
charge over forty years, led out in enter-
prise and set an example to others. Presi-
dent Harriet A. Badger who has succeeded
Mrs. Kimball will doubtless follow her ex-
ample and keep things moving onward and
upward.
	The larger hall where the sisters con-
vened was prettily decorated with flowers,
plants and bunting, etc., and a regular
program had been arranged. President H.
A. Badger presided, Bishop R. T. Burton,
Elder S. W. Richards and Mrs. E. B. Wells
were present by invitation. Meeting opened
by singing “Praise to the man,” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Burton, followed by
the favorite hymn, “O, my Father.”
President Badger read the minutes of the
organization of thet society on the 17th of
March 1842, and some important remarks
made by the Prophet Joseph at subsequent
meetings. A Song, “Be not the first to
cast the stone,” was finely rendered by one
of the sweet singers of Israel, Mrs. Maggie
Hull.
	Bishop Burton spoke feelingly of Nauvoo
and Joseph Smith, mentioning some inci-
dents that appealed especially to him.
	Elder S. W. Richards related reminiscen-
ces of those early times and his familiar
acquaintance in his boyhood with the
Prophet Joseph.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris recited an original
poem on Church history with good effect.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells referred to the origin
and growth of the society as a whole and
incidentally alluded to her recent visit in
Washington.
	A song by Mrs. Maude Pratt Griggs,
“Forget me not,” was charmingly rendered.
Miss Nellie Morris read a paper on the late
President Sarah M. Kimball, giving some
of the distinctive characteristics her in-
dividuality and remarkable incidents in her
life, and at the close read some of her trite
sayings found among her papers:
	“Life’s journey is full of God-given
opportunities to sow and to reap rich har-
vests.”
	“The secret of success is in improving
present opportunities.”
	“Cultivate high and holy aspirations;
Christ said, ‘Be ye perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.’ To be perfect
is just to do the best we know how to do
day by day.”
	“The record of a good life sheds lustre
upon declining years.”
	Miss Prudie Brown recited “The Lady Hil-
degarde,” in a very pleasing voice and
style. Miss Sarah E. F. Price read a
carefully prepared paper “The Progress Wo-
men have Made.” This closed the program;
there was singing and benediction, after
which refreshments were served in the hos-
pitable manner of the Relief Society in all
places and on all similar occasions.
ANNIVERSARY.
	The 7th of March being the anniversary
of the birthday of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,
president of the Relief Society in the 13th
ward of this city even since its organization,
a party was given in her honor at the
residence of Bishop N. A. Empey, which
was a very happy affair. Many of the old
friends of Sister Grant were present, also
the officers of the society over which she
has presided for so many years, and a num-


ber of the members. Mrs. Empey’s par-
lors were decorated with bright carnations,
and refreshments were served on large and
small tables where guests were seated in
groups, chatting and renewing acquaintan-
ces of by-gone days. President Grant
looked radiantly happy as she sat in the
midst of the feast, and no one would sus-
pect who did not know that her years were
so long upon the earth, for assuredly she
has grown beautiful with age.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young celebrated her
father’s eightieth birthday, Elder William
H. Fulsom, at her residence in this city.
Mrs. Young is a charming hostess and in
former days very much accustomed to en-
tertaining large companies, and the affair
proved to be very interesting and enjoyable
to the assembled guests, forty in number.
Among them were Prest. Lorenzo Snow
and wife, Prest. George Q. Cannon and
wife, President Jos, F. Smith and wife,
Apostle Brigham Young and wife, Prest.
Angus M. Cannon and wife, Bishop Geo.
H. Taylor and wife, Bishop Nelson A.
Empey and wife, Hon. T. G. Webber and
wife, Hon. Le Grande Young and wife,
Mrs. Margaret Y. Taylor, Mrs. M. M. Bar-
ratt, Mrs. Chloe R. Eldridge, Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald, Mrs. Mary Gates and others.
	The spacious parlors and dining room
were tastefully decorated for the happy
occasion, Brother Fulsom looked the
picture of health and happiness, and one
could scarcely believe he had seen the
snows of eighty winters, so erect in figure
and in full possession of all his faculties,
with the increase of wisdom that comes
with fulness of years and a well spent life.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation and interchange of ideas, and
when such old friends meet there are many
old-time recollections that are of particular
interest.
	The tables were elegant in white napery
and all the newest style appointments,
decorated with flowers and trailing green
vines, and the guests were waited upon by
four pretty young girls in white who seem-
ingly anticipated the wish of every guest.
	The banquet consisted of the choicest and
most delicate viands, and the hour spent at
table was a delightful one to all. Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young, presented the guest of honor,
Brother Fulsom, with a handsome bouquet
of rare flowers; and many congratulations
from the distinguished brethren and sisters
present were extended with ardent hopes
for happy returns of the day, and that he
might live as long as life was desirable.
	After dinner when the guests had re-
turned to the lighted parlors, the piano was
opened and Miss Lizzie Fulsom, a
daughter of Brother Fulsom’s, accompanied
his granddaughter, Miss Wallace, while
she sang very sweetly the old song, “The
Memories of the Past,” which was a pleas-
ing feature of the evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read a poem written
for the occasion, which contained a sort of
recital of incidents in the life of the aged
veteran and the wife of his youth, who has
been dead many years. Brother Fulsom
responded to the poem in a few appropriate
remarks, expressing his great pleasure in
meeting so many dear friends and receiving
such fervent congratulations.
	Brother Fulsom was born in Portsmouth,

[Column 2]
N.H., March 25, 1815, and his wife (Mrs.
Young’s mother) Zerviah Clark, in West
Suffolk, Conn., in 1818, both of New Eng-
land birth like so many of the early mem-
bers of the Church. They received the
Gospel and were baptized at the same time,
passing through many trials and hardships
together. They gathered with the Saints
here in 1853, and since that time Elder Ful-
som has occupied many positions of trust
and honor. He was the architect of the
Sanpete Temple at Manti, and has been
prominent in planning and building quite a
number of public structures. He is still
able-bodied and is now constantly em-
ployed in the business of inspecting build-
ings, etc. Brother Fulsom has a large
family of sons and daughters and numerous
grandchildren, and is justly proud of his
posterity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance
for any drawing room or library table. It
contains three hundred pages and a steel
engraving of the author. It is for sale at
the office of the Woman’s Exponent, Tem-
pleton building, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00.
	The Mother’s Congress will meet in
assembly in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Monday and Tuesday, the 10th and 11th
of April, commencing on Monday at 2 p.
m., meeting again at 7:30 p. m., evening
session, and at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. and
again on Tuesday evening, in all five ses-
sions. It will be very educational, many
good speakers are expected besides residents,
Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall of the Brigham
Young Academy, Susa Young Gates, who
will speak of Hawaiian mothers, and Helen
Campbell, the famous economist and author,
whose books and lectures on relative topics,
such as organized labor, the Consumer’s
League, Woman’s Protective Association,
etc., are considered among the best of our
time.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

UTAH STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

Daughters of the Revolution:
	Trusting, ladies, that you will believe
that I fully appreciate the honor you have
conferred upon me in electing me State
Regent of the Utah Society Daughters of
the Revolution—let me assure you of my
devotion to our State, to the country, its
institutions and its welfare present and
future, and promise in so far as I am capable
with your help to maintain the dignity of
this society as a part of our fair common-
wealth, and hope and believe that in good
faith all who have united in this society
will share the responsibility which devolves
upon us all in this new organization, of
making it a success a sa part of the General
Society, and a credit to our own State for
whose honor and fair name we are all so
justly ambitious.
	Although we are proud of our noble
ancestry and the spirit of ’76 and our heri-
tage of revolutionary fame in the past, we
must also look to the future and seek to
foster, nourish and cherish in these

[Column 2]
mountain vales the love of country and of
independence, such as we are convinced
our forefathers and foremothers cultivated
in their day and time in the early colonies,
the record of which has been handed down
to us and to which struggle they brought
such unqualified heroism, after having
sacrificed home and native land for liberty.
	This intermountain region is spontan-
eously bursting with the spirit of freedom;
its physical characteristics bear proof of the
assertion. The mountains sublimely grand
in majesty are symbols of integrity, courage
and solidity. Towers of strength indicat-
ing power and might; naturally the chil-
dren born here, as all of this society were
save only your Regent, must inhale this 
spirit which pervades the land.
	The very air we breathe is redolent of
freedom. For this precious gift let us
offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our
hearts to the God of liberty. We can
scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm
concerning this goodly land, these beauti-
ful vales in the desert where a band of
weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a
long and toilsome journey across the bleak
and desolate plains, having been wanderers 
like the children of Israel for an indefinite
period because of their religious faith, and
like their illustrious forefathers, the found-
ers of the colonies on the Atlantic shore
who left their native homes and country
and crossed the mighty ocean, enduring
untold hardships almost too appalling for
repetition because of persecution for their
religion; and yet some of their descendants
at a later date were forced to come hither,
traversing untrodden desert ways, and fin-
ally made their resting place by America’s
Great Dead Sea. An over-ruling Provi-
dence guided the pilgrims of New England
across the mighty deep, and the pioneers of
Utah to this valley, toward the Pacific
slope and the setting sun.
	We must teach our children such lessons
of patriotism and love of humanity and of
religious liberty, that they will never incline
to deeds of disloyalty, nor consent to the
persecution of any denomination or people
of whatever belief or unbelief, Christian,
Jew, Mohammedan or Infidel.
	Teach the children the songs of their
fathers and their mothers. “Sing aloud,
Old Songs the precious music of the heart."

“Teach them your children round the hearth
When evening fires burn clear;
And in the fields of harvest mirth,
And on the hills of deer. 
So shall each unforgotten word 
When far their loved ones roam,
Call back the hearts which once it stirred
To childhood’s holy home.”  
	* * *
“The songs that thro’ the valleys green
Sent on from age to age;
Like his own river’s voice have been
The peasant’s heritage.”

	It is rather remarkable that just a short
period previous to the recent war with
Spain the women of this nation should
have been impressed to band themselves to-
gether in patriotic societies throughout the
United States, arousing the spirit of patriot-
ism in communities and striving to learn
the unwritten history of the greater activity
of patriotic valor, and searching deep into
the genealogy of the past to establish indi-
vidual claims of direct lineage, whereby
they might link themselves to the fathers
and forefathers who preceded them, and
secure perfect recognition of inherited right


[Column 1]
SACRAMENTO BRANCH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Some time has elapsed since you have
heard from the Relief Society of Sacramen-
to, yet we have been mindful of you and
the Relief Society throughout Utah, especi-
al mention being made in our prayers fo.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her counselorsr
	Nothing has occurred of enough interest
to communicate, and our work is slow, yet
we have kept on cheerfully and earnestly,
trusting in the promise that, “where two or
three are met together in my name, there
am I in their midst, and that to bless.”
Experience has taught us that we always
receive more than we ask for. Since the
organization of our society we have been
but few members; true our branch and
society have increased, but the people here
have removed to Utah or Idaho as soon as
circumstances permitted, therefore there
would not until lately be over six sisters
present at a meeting, and owing to the
distance of residence and the circumstances
of the sisters, we thought best to discon-
tinue our Tuesday meeting, and hold but
one a month. That one has been well at-
tended, the sisters bearing strong testimon-
ies to the truth of the work and of the
goodness of God. A few weeks ago we
decided to resume our weekly meetings,
the members having increased and each one
having a zeal for work whereby they might
help roll on the Lord’s work and obtain
great blessings. Three meetings are held
at the home of Sister Fanny Thackham,
the fourth, a testimony meeting, at the
home of one of the aged or sick sisters who
is not privileged to be with us from time to
time, that they may be strengthened and
built up by the testimonies, or comfort we
may be able to give them.
	Last year two quilts made by the sisters
netted the neat sum of eight dollars. Gar-
ments and fancy work are now being
manufactured to be disposed of later on in
a manner not yet decided upon.
	On Saturday 11th inst., the Elders went
among the Saints imparting tidings they
knew would bring joy to every heart,
Apostle and Sister Richards and President
Nye would be with us next day. Can you
dear ones over there who have these privil-
eges so common among you, realize what
it is to us to behold the face of a prophet
or apostle of the Lord? To us who have
been living in the world, groping amid its
darkness, wandering we know not where,
then called from our danger by the clear,
sweet tones of the servants of God as they
teach, us the truths of the Gospel as it has
been restored in the last days, bringing us
from danger into safety, from error into
truth, from death into life, from extreme
darkness into the marvelous light of His
love—indeed the capacity of our hearts
seems much too small to hold such a bless
ing, and our tears of joy flow freely.
	Our esteemed guests were present at
Sunday School. President Nye made a
few remarks to the school. President Rich-
ards followed, speaking more particularly
to the older ones, encouraging them in
Sunday School work. Sister Richards ad-
dressed the children about ten minutes,
telling some of her early experiences and
how they did in the schools in Utah. She
won each little heart and proved herself the
childrens’ friend.
	Apostle Richards was the speaker at both
morning and evening service, great interest
being manifested by the many listeners.

[Column 2]
The discourse was on the early history of
the Church and the Apostle’s personal
knowledge of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and he stated that in the beginning of the
Church he was the youngest apostle and
had lived to be the oldest. The encourage-
ment to Saints and messages of love from
the scriptures to sinners, could only fall
from lips used to communicate with the
Lord. His face fairly radiated the light he
had received, and I felt it good to sit and
listen, and was reminded of the 2nd Ephes-
sins, 6th verse, “Hath called us together
to sit together in heavenly places in Christ
Jesus.”
	At 3 p. m. the Relief Society met with
the Elders at the request of Sister Richards
at the home of Sister Eliza Smith. We
had a glorious meeting, the Holy Spirit
was present with us. President Nye,
Apostle Richards and Sister Richards gave
us much valuable and needed instruction,
and we shall endeavor to reach the standard
raised for us that day and profit by the
things learned, never forgetting the dear
faces from Zion. At conference President
Bowman said words of praise for our Re-
lief Society, saying we were not behind any
branch in the state.
	President Nye returned from a trip to
Carson and was with us on Friday 17.
There being three vacancies in the Relief
Society a meeting was called and the fol-
lowing officers confirmed: Sister Jane
Rumel, counselor; Sister Sarah Morgan,
assistant secretary; Sister Annie Carson,
teacher. President Nye in his inimitable
style instructed the mothers as to how they
should bring up and watch over the health
of their children and bring them up in the
kingdom of God, and prophecied we would
grow rapidly and be a tower of strength in
California. After prayer Sister Rumel in-
vited Brothers Nye and Bowman to lunch
which they accepted and partook of just in
time for the former to take the train for his
home in San Francisco.
	That the Heavenly Father will bless us
abundantly and make us a power in wisdom,
knowledge and strength for the helping on
of the great work, made glorious through
truth and revelation, is my wish.
	FANNY HENSLEY THACKHAM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Loa, January 31, 1899.
The presidency of the Stake Relief Society
and a number of brethren were present and
an excellent spirit prevailed.
	The Loa choir sang “Come O, Thou
King of Kings.” Prayer, Bishop W. E.
Hanks. Singing, “Let us pray.”
	President Jane S. Coleman presiding,
spoke upon the magnitude of the work we
are engaged in, said much could be accom-
plished by the Relief Society when they
were active in their labors. She had re-
ceived reports from the local presidents,
showing satisfactory results with regard to
gathering up grain for storing. Read the
statistical and financial report for the year
past, and said our average should be higher.

[Column 2]
We ought to sustain our local presidents
with our presence at meetings, by so doing
union would increase and kind feelings also.
Said Relief Society members should lead
out in good works, should be teachers and
preachers of righteousness. Spoke upon
mothers training their children in a proper
way.
	President Margaret Taylor reported the
Loa Relief Society in good condition, bore
testimony, and expressed a desire to have
the Bishopric visit their meetings.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe said she felt
well and was much pleased to have the 
presidency and brethren attend our confer-
ence and sustain us in our labors. Spoke
of teaching our children more by example
than precept, to teach virtue and not to
leave our sons and daughters subject to
temptation. Spoke of attending our meetings
and sustaining the society work.
	Sister Adalaide M. Adams reported the
Teasdale Relief Society as doing well.
	President Martha Adams reported the
Torrey Relief Society in good running
order. It had lately been organized and all
felt well. 
	Sister Louisa Brown spoke of the society
in early days and of the progress and
growth it had made, also of the opportun-
ities that lay before the young people. En-
couraged mothers to do their duty and be
very careful in their examples before the
young people.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said she had en-
joyed the conference. Encouraged the sis-
ters to read and study good books and be-
come wise in the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke of the bless-
ings that awaited the faithful. Encouraged
the young sisters to be good, true workers
and shun evil at all times. Felt thankful
that the mothers of Zion were worthy of
raising sons who were worthy to bear the
Gospel to the nations of the world.
	Sister Margaret Pace bore testimony to
the truth of the Gospel and spoke of the
fulfillment of prophecy.
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber society in good condition. They
lacked only a few dollars of settling up
their indebtedness on their hall, (which is a
very creditable building for so small a
society.) She said they were united and de-
sired to be progressive in the good
work.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn felt well in the
calling that rested upon her. Spoke of the
blessings the sisters would gain by storing
grain. Encouraged the young people to be
faithful in every calling.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry felt very thankful
for the good spirit we had enjoyed, and felt
to ask the Lord to bless every worker in
the society. Felt to sustain those in office
with all her heart.
	President J. S. Coleman was pleased to
listen to the remarks and reports. Called
the attention of the sisters to the ten cent
donation to help defray the expenses of
the General Board in Relief Society work.
Spoke of fasting and prayer in behalf of the
sick among us, and said to observe punctu-
ality in attendance at our meetings.
	President W. E. Robinson felt to appre-
ciate the good words of the sisters, would
ask the Bishops to visit the society and be-
come an aid to them. Encouraged the sis-
ters in the good work they had espoused.
	Closed by singing “Great is the Lord.”
Benediction by President H. M. Hansen.
				A. M. ADAMS, Sec.


when the Jaredite nation, save one man, be-
came extinct.
	How solitary and lonely he must have
felt, alone on a great continent! No home,
no friends! Can we contemplate anything
so awful! How long he wandered to and
fro we know not, but at last he reached
the southern portion of the North American
continent, thousands of miles from his form-
er home, and to the great astonishment of
both, he found the people of Mulek, who
had been led from Jerusalem by the hand
of the Lord about eleven years after Lehi.
With them he spent nine moons, when he
too, passed away to the world of spirits.
	Thus ended one of the mightiest nations,
who, as long as they kept the command-
ments of God, flourished, but when they be-
came wicked and corrupt, fell into decay
and finally destroyed each other in civil war.
Men and women fared alike. The last bat-
tle was fought as near as can be gleaned
from the records, 590 B. C.
	When Ether had completed his records
he hid the twenty-four golden plates on
which they were engraved in the place
where they were afterwards found by the
people of King Limbi, when they were
searching for the land of Zarahemla. The
plates were afterwards carried by the
Nephites to Zarahemla, and were translated
by the king and prophet, Mosiah II.
	From that time they were handed down
from one generation to another with other
sacred and holy records and things, until
Moroni: the last great Nephite prophet and
general made an abridgement of them, and
they were deposited with others of a like
character in the Hill Cumorah. There they
lay concealed for centuries until they were
delivered into the hands of the boy
prophet, Joseph Smith of the 19th century.
On the 22nd of September, 1827, were
placed in his hands by the Angel Moroni,
the plates from which the Book of Mormon
was translated, also the Urum and Thum-
mim.
					E. H. LYON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the “Exponent.”
A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	In the days of Shiblon, because of the
iniquity of the people, many prophets ap-
peared and foretold the woes that would
mark the extinction of the race. Civil wars
and robber bands did their part; famine and
pestilence followed. Finally the king was
slain and his son Seth taken into captivity.
Seth was the next rightful heir to the
throne, but he was kept in captivity the
rest of his life.
	Ahab, the son of Seth, was the next
monarch. He was a wicked king, but his
reign was brief. His son Etham succeeded
him.
	In Etham’s days many prophets came
again to raise their warning voices. They
prophesied of the destruction that would
surely come upon the wicked if they did
not turn from their iniquity, but they heed-
ed not the words of the heaven inspired
messengers, and they withdrew from
among them. When Etham died his son
Moron succeeded the throne.
	Moron, like his father Etham, was a
most wicked king. During his reign the
robber bands which at that time flourished
among the people, led a rebellion amongst
the people and wrested from him his king-
dom, but after many years he succeeded in
defeating them and regained possession of
his kingdom. He was again defeated and
carried into captivity.
	Coriantor was the son of Moron, and was
held in captivity all his life. This was a
period of sin and war. He was the father
of the Prophet Ether. Ether was the last
great prophet of the Jaredites, to whom we
are indebted for the history of that race,
that once mighty nation.
	In the days of Coriantumr, the last of the
Jaredite kings, the Prophet Ether raised
his warning voice, but all his words were
rejected by that fast decaying nation. They
cast him out from their midst, and he spent
his days in a mountain cave. While he
was thus hiding he wrote the history of his
times and people. These were troublous
times indeed for the war which commenced
in the first year of Ether’s concealment
lasted until the nation was destroyed, men
and women fighting with the same intense
hate.
	In the second year of the war Ether
again appeared among the people and de-
clared if they repented not they should all
be slain except Coriantumr. They were
angry with him and sought to take his life,
so he again retired to his place of conceal-
ment. 
	In the third year Shared, a leader of the
revolutionists, defeated Coriantumr, and
held him a prisoner. In the fourth year
the sons of Coriantumr released their father
and placed him again on the throne. 
	At last the vast armies of Coriantumr
and Shared met in the valley of Gelgal and
fought for three days, the king was victor-
ous. One battle followed another, year
after year, millions fell before the last ter-
rible struggle ended, when Coriantumr
stood alone, the sole representative of his
race, the last and final battle being fought
near the hill Ramah, (Cumorah, N. Y.)


[Column 1]
to the children yet unborn along this
heroic line of ancestry.
	Yet so it was, and doubtless there is an
underlying purpose in this; and these 
societies are becoming more and more
numerous and their influence and strength
will correspondingly increase. They are
not, as has been said, “mutual admiration
societies,” nor are they for tea and gossip,
but for closer, fellowship and active service
along the lines of higher views, of united
patriotic efforts for the larger freedom and 
comradeship of all mankind.
	In our work we must strive to give
some object lessons as well as history and
legends for the children, who are only par-
tially acquainted with the facts pertaining
to the establishment of the independence of
our country, or we shall fail in the pur-
poses we expect to achieve. Assuredly it
is the conscientious desire of every woman
in the society (and let us believe it will be
of all who will hereafter become members)
to so engraft the principles of freedom and
right in the souls of the children of these
mountain vales, and stamp upon their lives
and character such lessons in childhood and
youth that no storms upon the voyage of
life, or clamor of heresy, or wars of people
shall ever destroy or uproot the principles 
thus wrought into their souls; but that they
may be transmitted to their posterity unto
the latest generation that may inhabit this 
chosen land of America.
	Without going into details allow me to
state that in my opinion we should collect
from time to time, as we have opportunity,
specimens of workmanship or heirlooms
that may help us to appreciate the past, and
give us better ideas of those primitive times
when the life of the people was more sim-
ple and the great inventions of this age had
not yet become a part of the newer civiliza-
tion. We are not privileged in this respect
as those are in the older states, who are up-
on the stamping ground of the great his-
toric battles; and many relics of that valiant
age are handed down in the old Colonial
families, or collected and preserved in 
museums and such like places for the bene-
fit of the public. From these scenes and
associations we in this Western land are far
removed geographically, but we may ob-
tain from relatives and friends some of these
precious mementoes.
	If we cannot surround ourselves with
such object lessons there is active work we
can do in other directions, which will open 
up to us undoubtedly, and meantime we
can become more familiar with the past his-
tory of our own country by lectures, study
and discussion in our society, and acquaint-
ing ourselves with biographies of the men
and women who figured conspicuously in
affairs of this nation and its struggle for
independence.
	The Declaration of Independence itself is
a subject for study, probably we do not re-
member even the names of the signers of
that sacred instrument of progress in the
world’s history.
	As women we cannot be too grateful
and reverent to the memory of such women
as Abagail Adams, of revolutionary dis-
tinction, who so long ago when woman’s
legal rights had not been even agitated as a
part of civilization, urged her husband in
the most emphatic language to accord to
women justice in the establishing of the new
government. She was the first American
woman who thus protested against the in-
equality of sex in political matters. Writ-
ing to her husband in March 1776, who

[Column 2]
was then in the Continental Congress, she
said: “I long to hear you have declared an
independency, and by the way in the new
code of laws, which I suppose it will be
necessary for you to make, I desire you
would remember the ladies, and be more
generous to them than your ancestors have
been.” Her language on this subject both
in conversation with the men of her time
and in her letters to correspondents was
strong, and her opposition to the old laws
so determined that she even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her sex
were secured, and declared women would
not hold themselves bound to obey any
laws in which they had no voice or repre-
sentation.
	It is due to the moral courage of such
women and those of the 19th century with 
whose names we are more familiar, and to
the generous spirit of the men of this West-
ern country that we are privileged to enjoy
political equality. With this advantage
we should be better equipped for the work
along this line, and make ourselves and
this society a power in the political economy
of the State and as a part of the great
body politic throughout the United States,
not forgetting those of our sex deprived of
the ballot who are anxiously looking to us
to help them along these lines of political
liberty and direct representation in the
government.
	May it be our privilege to render noble
service whenever and wherever opportunity
is given, and be ready at all times to stand
by the Constitution of our country, uphold
its laws and honor the flag, and be ready to
defend it from foes within and foes without.
	In conclusion let us pay our tribute of
respect to the General Society of the Daugh-
ters of the Revolution who so generously
extended to Utah the right hand of fellow-
ship, and in the name of the Utah society
through its Regent in her inaugural address
bid them God speed in the magnanimous
work they have so auspiciously under-
taken. And while remembering all its
representatives tender our love especially
to Miss Sarah E. Hunt, its vice president,
who so graciously honored us with her
gentle presence and sweet words of en-
couragement and sympathy, which we shall
never forget during her brief sojourn in
Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West, in
July 1898.	
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Regent of Utah Society Daughters of the
	Revolution.
Given at a meeting held January 16 1899.


GONE TO REST.

EMILY BILLINGS STRINGAM.
	It becomes our painful duty to announce
the death of one of our noble sisters of the 
Thurber Relief Society, Wayne Stake of 
Zion, Emily Billings Stringam, wife of 
George W. Stringam, who passed away 
February 16, 1899, from the effects of la
grippe and typhoid fever, aged forty four
years, three months and five days. She 
leaves a sorrowing mother, husband and 
six children to mourn her loss. 
	We have known and loved her many 
years, her life and labors have been of an 
exemplary character. She was a true and 
sincere friend at all times and in all places. 
Her life has been a noble example from her 
childhood until her spirit took its flight to 
higher realms. May her spirit rest in peace 
until the resurrection morn. She has gone
to meet those who have gone before. She 
endeared herself to a host of friends who 
were greatly attached to her. She has been 
a member of the Thurber Relief Society
ever since its first organization and a teach-
er in the same, one among the first to pay


any donation that was called for. Oh, how
we shall miss her in our society!
		SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
		MARY A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A new literary star is being brought to
the attention of the reading world through
the pages of the Woman’s Home Compan-
ion—a clever Japanese girl, Miss Onoto
Watanna, who writes bright stories depict-
ing phases of American and English life in
Japan.
	Mrs. Hetty Green, who is said to be the
richest woman in America, is so pursued
by beggars that she conceals her address
from the public, and her doorplate bears
the inscription, “C. Dewey.” This is the
name of her daughter’s little dog. Com-
modore Dewey, born on the day of the
battle of Manila. “This little terrier sim-
ply runs this whole household,” Mrs
Green said the other day to a reporter for
the New Voice. “We live with him—not
he with us.”


[Column 1]
REORGANIZE THE RED CROSS.

	Plans are now afoot to reorganize the
National Red Cross Society. The reorgan-
ization is being considered by a committee.
	Primarily it is intended to establish per-
manent headquarters of the National Red
Cross Society in Washington. The pro-
posed plan contemplates the erection of a
building at Washington to be devoted
solely to the uses of the society.
	The chief officers of the society are to be
a president, vice president and chief of staff.
The duties of the latter official will be that
of a general manager, who will exercise a
general control of the work of the society
throughout the country, subject to the
authority of Miss Barton as president and
the board of directors.
	In the United States the country will be
divided into departments, which geographi-
cally will correspond to the military de-
partments as they now exist. Each de-
partment will be administered by a chief,
who will have control of the territory under
his charge, and who will in return be re-
sponsible to the executive committee of the
board of directors. It will be the duty of
each chief to so organize his department
that local Red Cross societies will be
established in the cities and towns within
his jurisdiction. These societies will be re-
sponsible to him.

[Column 2]
MASSACHUSETTS DEBATE ON
POLGAMY.

	A resolution against the admission of
Congressman Roberts of Utah, was adopted
on Monday, March 20, by the Massachusetts
House of Representatives after a sharp de-
bate.
	Mr. Tolman, of Pittsfield, opposed the
resolution against the admission of Brigham
H. Roberts of Utah to a seat in the 56th
Congress. He said it was none of the
business of the Legislature. Neither Utah
nor Massachusetts Congressmen had asked
the Legislature to act. He hoped it would
be killed.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, for the committee
reporting the resolve, said this was a moral
question. The committee was unanimous
in support of the resolution.
	Mr. Murphy, of Lawrence, said he had
listened with a good deal of amusement to
the wail of the screech owl from Wachusett.
The question was a pressing one. In New
York this resolution was passed, and so it
was in Kansas. The Mormons had agreed
to quit polygamy, but had not done so.
Roberts had served his time in jail for poly-
gamy.
	Mr. Charles R. Saunders opposed the
resolution. It was no business of the
Legislature to be instructing our Congress-
men. A good policy for the Legislature
was to mind its own business. Utah should
have been kept out of the Union unless she
gave safe guarantee to cease polygamous
acts.
	Mr. Hawes, of Weymouth, said in reply
to Mr. Tolman that there was a committee
on federal relations to consider just such
questions, and it was the business of the
Legislature, if it was fit, to act on national
questions.
	Mr. Davenport, of Greenfield, made a
strong plea for the polygamists. He was
in favor of the broadest freedom in religious
matters, quoting the Constitution. He said
there was a wise man in the Bible who be-
lieved in polygamy. He could not say that
there was anything in polygamy that was
immoral.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, said three-fourths of
the members would be glad if the resolution
had not been brought in, but he thought
they would not care to vote against morality.
	Mr. Douglass, of Boston, said this motion
was a Christian motion. If carried out,
polygamy would break up the foundations
of society. He was for the resolution and
Christian morality.
	The resolution was adopted, 68 to 59.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

NOTICE.

	To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15, 1873; Volume XIII.,
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
			ROMANINA B. PRATT,
Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver.......................................................... 3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.............................................................. 8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:03 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco........... 7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate 
	points................................................................... 9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............. 6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus....................................... 6:00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis......................................... 7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points..... 8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............ 7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco................ 9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco................. 5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus.......................................... 7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.

City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,			D E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.		Gen. P. and T. Agent.
			W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

