VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1898. No. 6.


CONTENTS:
	The Red Cross—Ellis R. Shipp. 	Special Pri-
mary Meeting—May Anderson. We Mothers—
L. L. Greene Richards. Foreign Letter—Severne
Snow Witbeck. A Visit to Bear Lake—Lydia D.
Alder.  U. W. P .C.—Aimee Schiller.   In Mem-
oriam.   Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting.

	Editorial:—Relief Society Conference. The
War and its Effects. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Horrors of War—R. M. F.  Human-
ity for Cuba—Mary Baird Finch. 	To Frances
Willard—Martha Shepard Lippincott.


HORRORS OF WAR.

Nay, speak not to me of the glories of war, 
Of the glitter and fame, for my soul doth abhor
Such barbarous methods of righting (?) a wrong—
Oh tell me, ye prophets and sages, how long
Ere the nations sha l learn by devices of peace,
Their differences to settle that bloodshed may
	cease ?

My country, my country, proud land of the free,
Though thy cause may be just and thine aim
	liberty;
Yet what can atone for the blood of thy sons,
And the tears of thy daughters, can victories
	won?
If thus thou dost call it, when on ocean and plain,
By thy hand thy brothers lie mangled and slain.

If this be called glory, then never again
May war and its triumphs my fair country stain,
May the emblem of freedom so proudly afloat,
Waft peace to the nations both near and remote,
May its red, white and blue inspire faith in
	mankind,
Till war and oppression are left far behind.

My country, my country, e’en so shall it be,
Behold the bright star of thy destiny;
Will give to the light to promulgate a plan,
Aye a plan to redeem and fraternize man;
Thus the flags of all nations united I see,
Which swells the glad chorus, we are free, we
	are free!

R. M. F.
	July, 1898.


[Column 2]
THE RED CROSS.

	The Heaven born thought that gave it birth,
	Encircles now the sea and earth, 
	Its human hand with potent stroke
 	The echoes of the world awoke,
	Till every heart is touched by human woe
	And thrills responsive, be it friend or foe.

	In studying the history, objects and 
present status of this truly benevolent or-
ganization one’s feelings are naturally
allured to the realms of the divine, for at
every turn we feel the inspiration of the 
divine love which gave birth to the first
grand inspiration. The true love of human-
ity, the desire to alleviate suffering, sorrow,
pain, disease and death whenever and wher-
ever it might be found, is the main spring of
the Red Cross organization. Truly “Those
who love most are most like God, for God
is love.” The tender sympathies of woman
has had much to do with the inception
of this grand idea. The efforts of Florence

[Column 2]
Nightingale and her devoted followers dur-
ing the Crimean war; and the American
Sanitary Commission during our own Civil
War, we might say, took the initiative; al-
though they were not really the originators.
There existed at that time an instinctive
feeling that hospital and ambulance nurses
and doctors should ever stand on mutual
ground and remain as sacred as the white
flag of truce to all nations.
	During the battle of Solferino in Italy,
Dr. Henry Durrant and his friend, Gustave
Moyner, were eye witnesses of the horrors
of the battle field, and with these benevolent
and self-sacrificing men the idea first found
definite shape; but it was not until Febru-
ary 1863, that Dr. Durrant presented the
subject to the society at Geneva, Switzer-
land; suggesting that in times of peace
societies be formed for the much needed re-
lief of the wounded when war should again
break out. This resulted in appointing a
committee to consider and examine into the
merits of the case, then after much consider-
ation and discussion an international con-
ference was called for the next October,
which in turn resulted in the calling of an
international congress for the following
year. At this conference the original arti-
cles of the Geneva convention were adopted
which in substance were as follows:
	1—For the neutrality of ambulances and
military hospitals as long as they contain
any sick.
	2—For that of their staff.
	3—That the neutrality of these persons
shall continue after occupation of their hos-
pitals by the enemy, so they may stay or
depart as they choose.
	4—That if they depart they can take
only their private property with them ex-
cept in case of ambulances which they may
remove entire.
	5—That a sick soldier in a house shall be
counted a protection to it and entitles its
occupants to the exemption to the quarter-
ing of troops and from part of the war re-
quisitions.
	6—That wounded men shall when cured
be sent back to their own country on condi-
tion of their not bearing arms for the rest
of the war.
	7—That hospitals and ambulances shall
carry in addition to the flag of their own
nation a distinctive and uniform flag bearing
a red cross on a white ground, and that
their staff shall wear an arm badge of the
same colors.
	8—That the details shall be left to their
commanders.
	Out of compliment to the Swiss govern-
ment, which called the first congress, their
national flag was adopted with the colors
reversed; their flag being red with a white
cross.
	It is quite humiliating to our national
conceit and the much boasted humanity
of America that she was one of the last to
adopt the provisions of the Red Cross,
while Spain was one of the first twelve na-
tions represented at the Geneva convention.
America was even behind Turkey and Per-
sia. The honored twelve are Switzerland,

[Column 3]
Baden, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Holland,
France, Hesse, Italy, Portugal, Prussia
and Wirtemburg.
	The plan adopted arranged for an inter-
national committee to propagate the move-
ment, and that each nation should on its
own accord arrange for a national Red
Cross Society. It was also agreed that an
international conference of all nations inter-
ested should be held every four years to
consider amendments, and as circumstances
and conditions demanded enlarge and im-
prove upon the original idea.
	In 1868 the first quadrennial was held in
Geneva, amendments were made extending
its benefits to maritime warfare, also reserving
the right to suspend these advantages even
till the end of the war where it is known
that these privileges have been abused, and
at least until the contrary is proven.
	This is the foundation upon which the
great Red Cross of today is erected Chang-
es in detail have occasionally been made
and signed by the nations concerned; but
only two of much importance have been
made. The first, proposed by Russia, pro-
vides “that all persons abusing the privileges
of the Red Cross in times of war be treated
as spies and summarily dealt with.” The
other is known as the civil branch, or the
American amendment, and was introduced
by our own Clara Barton, whose illustrious
name is intimately associated with the Red
Cross movement. It seems that it took a
woman’s far-reaching, unselfish nature to
devise such a code of reasoning as we find
in this amendment; which provides for the
extension of this relief work of the Red
Cross in all national calamities such as
floods, fire, famine, pestilence and all dis-
asters of sufficient gravity and magnitude
to be considered of national importance.
	But it was not until within a very recent
period that this usually wide awake nation
was aroused by the appeals of suffering
humanity; notwithstanding these appeals
were repeatedly represented by her own un-
daunted daughter, Clara Barton, who has per-
sistently and unflinchingly plodded ever
onward as only those can who work for the
benefit of others, her great aim being to
palliate the woes and relieve the ills of all
suffering humanity, and today she stands
as the leading Red Cross character of the
world.
	During the Civil war her services were of
incalculable value to the government in as-
sisting the Sanitary Commission, especially
in the medical department; and how her
gentle heart must have been touched by
the suffering she witnessed! In speaking
of that war she says: “It had no ray of
this fraternal light,” meaning the Red
Cross. “The great commissions rose and
performed a work of relief hitherto un-
known, but from lack of military recogni-
tion their best efforts comparatively failed,
and for lack of permanent organizations
their future possibilities were lost to the
world.”
	One of Clara Barton’s greatest acheive-
ments, and no doubt a labor attended with
the greatest anxiety, was the war she waged
with her own nation, wherein for fifteen


[Column 1]
years she maintained her ground, plead-
ing with Congress to endorse this grand
and far-reaching relief work the Red Cross,
which had already been recognized by near-
ly every other civilized nation, even barbar-
ic Spain. At last she became desperate and
as we say in medicine, she took a heroic
position, and organized a Red Cross Society
of her own, and was elected president in
1881. This decisive movement was fol-
lowed by the first gleam of hope from the
National Capital, for in the same year
President Authur gave the Red Cross favor-
able mention in his message to Congress.
Soon after the numerous petitions and doc-
uments she had presented to Congress and
that had for years been laying in the State
department, were brought to light and sub-
mitted to congressional consideration, and
finally on March 16, 1882, it was honored
by that influential body, only eighteen
years after Spain had given her recognition.
	But not until a very recent period—since
the beginning of the present war—neither
the United States nor Spain had endorsed
more than the ten original articles of the
Geneva convention, the amendments of
1868 had not all been formally accepted.
	The Swiss Government has since its first
organization been the tender nurse of the
Red Cross, and during the Franco-Prussian
war was brought about the formal provi-
sional adoption of these amendments by
both countries.
	In the beginning of the present war the 
Swiss ministers at Madrid and Washington
suggested to each other that the principles
of the Red Cross in their entirety be form-
ally adopted. And it is a peculiar coinci-
dence that both the Spanish and American
nations on May 9, 1898, announced to the
Swiss ministers at Washington that they
would each adhere to the Red Cross princi-
ples,
	Thus we find this grand humanitarian
plan is now in full force with the conflict-
ing nations, and it is hoped that both will
hold sacred this beautiful ensign of allevia-
tion, the Red Cross flag.
	Since writing the above the world has
learned more of treacherous Spain and is
surprised with her cruelty and disregard of
a religious and most sacred compact. Dur-
ing that terrific battle in the present
month at Santiago de Cuba while the
whole world was trembling with agonizing
suspense—while the friends of those fight-
ing heroes were soothed somewhat with the
thoughts that their loved ones would at
least have the protection of the Red Cross—
just think even beneath its fluttering folds
physicians were shot down while engaged
in caring for the wounded and dying. And
soldiers while crawling painfully, seeking
places of succor and shelter had the fleeting
rays of life extinguished by Spanish bullets.
Well may we cry shame upon such inhu-
manity! Shame upon a nation that can so
soon forget its sacred obligations! But let us
close our eyes to these atrocities and rather
dwell upon the beneficent work of the Red
Cross in the last quarter of a century. It
is certainly one of the greatest triumphs of
civilization and the financial outlook is
stupendous. During the Franco-Russian
war the German Red Cross collected and
expended thirteen million dollars, while
the French and English spent two million
more, and the Swiss Red Cross at the evac-
uation of Strasburg fed and sheltered thirty
thousand French refugees. During the
Franco-Russian war the Red Cross was at

[Column 2]
first ignored by the government, but prov-
ing their efficiency by collecting seventeen
million dollars they were soon called upon
to take entire charge of the hospital service
of the army.
	The American Red Cross has been organ-
ized seventeen years and has been an all
pervading presence in the following disas-
ters: Forest fires of Michigan in 1881. Over-
flow of the Mississippi in 1882. Overflow
of the Ohio in 1883. The Ohio and Miss-
ssippi flood in 1883. Texas famine in 1885.
Charleston earthquake in 1886. Mt. Ver-
non, Ill., cyclone in 1887. Yellow fever
epidemic in Florida in 1888. Johnstown
flood in 1889. The Russian famine in
1891-92. The Pomeroy, (Iowa,) cy-
clone in 1892. The hurricane and tidal
wave of the Sea Islands of South Carolina
in 1893-94. The relief of the persecuted
Armenians in 1896. Caring for the suffering
Cubans in 1898, and at present the results of
American-Spanish warfare claim the at-
tention of the Red Cross forces, not only
abroad but at home, and all honor to our
Red Cross sisters here in Utah who have
labored so assiduously and efficiently in this
great common cause, and in this great age
which may be justly called the age of heart.
	In days of old might not right was king,
and Hercules was powerful because of
muscle. Next came the age of intellect
when the tape measure was placed around
the brain, when we had one Shakespeare as
a model of greatness. But the greatest age
is that of human love—when the holy im-
pulses emanating from the heart sway the
multitudes and encompass the whole world.
And as a beginning of this great epoch let
us bow in reverence to the Red Cross.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Read before the U. W. P. C. July 30, 1898.


WOMANS EXPONENT


SPECIAL PRIMARY MEETING.

	A special meeting of the Primary Stake
officers was held in Wanship, Summit Stake
Saturday July 15, President Louie B. Felt
and Counselor May Anderson of the Gener-
al Board were present.  The meeting was
appointed by President Cluff of Summit
Stake for the purpose of organizing the
Stake board of the Primary Association,
Sister Louisa Roundy having decided to re-
sign her position as Stake president.
	After opening the meeting in the usual
manner Sister Roundy stated why she
wished to be released from her office; it was
not because she was tired of her work or
wished to shirk her duty, she loved her
work with the children and believed the
children loved her, but felt that it being
necessary to be away from Summit consid-
erable of her time, that the work would not
receive the attention it needed, that it
would be better to step out and let someone
who was more free attend to the many
duties of the office.  Sister Roundy has
held the position of Stake president in the
Primary association for eighteen years and
during that time missed but four confer-
ences, and those on account ot sickness.
	President Cluff, Bishop Atwood of Kamas,
and Sister Roundy’s counselors all bore tes-
timony to the faithfulness with which Sis-
ter Roundy had discharged her duties,
though she had many difficulties and ob-
stacles to meet, and that Summit Stake
could vote to accept Sister Roundy’s resig-
nation with honor, credit and all the praise
that any one holding position could deserve.


Bishop Atwood proposed that the resig-
nation of Sister Roundy be accepted and
that she be honorably released from her posi-
tion, and accorded a vote of thanks for her
work and labor in the Primary Association
of Summit Stake;  the proposition was
seconded and President Cluff presented it
and it was carried unanimously.
	Sister Margaret Salmon of Coalville, was
unanimously sustained to fill the vacant
position.  Sister Salmon not being notified
of this honor was unable on such short
notice to choose her counselors and was
given until the next Stake conference to
find suitable and congenial sisters to help
her in her new duties.  Sister Olive Reed
was proposed and unanimously sustained to
fill the position of Stake secretary and
treasurer.
	During the meeting some of the children
rendered interesting exercises and suitable
and instructive remarks were made by Sisters
Felt and Anderson and also by President
Cluff.
	After the meeting Sisters Felt and Ander-
son were taken by Brother and Sister Cluff
to their beautiful home in Coalville and
were right well entertained by their hospit-
able hosts.  Coalville is a delightful place
in the summer, cool breezes and cold nights,
the change from Salt Lake was truly de-
lightful and sleep was so refreshing.
				MAY ANDERSON,
General Secretary Primary Association.


TO FRANCES WILLARD.

We mourn that she has left us,
	To dwell on earth no more
The whole world’s heart is grieving,
	And all her death deplore.
So faithful, sweet, courageous,
	Our leader e’er hath been,
In elevating mankind,
	Discouraging all sin.

But though we keenly miss her,
	Let us remember still,
That dear Miss Willard left us,
	Because it was God’s will.
We may not see the reason,
	Why she was called away,
But our dear Father willed not
	Death’s angel to delay.

He knew her work was well done,
	And she had earned her rest,
Safe in the arms of Jesus,
	Her spirit will be blest.
And though we cannot see her,
	Her spirit e’er will be
Abiding near to lead us,
	That we God’s ways may see.

Her life and thoughts will still live.
	To help i spire mankind;
’Tis on y the frail body
	That we no more shall find.
Oh ! sweet, unselfish woman,
	Our memory will be true. 
And hold in mind the Christ life,
	That in thy spirit grew.

Oh! let us follow onward
	And do as she would bid,
Until of crimes and sinning,
	The earth at last is rid;
And souls on earth are living,
	As God would will them to,
Each doing unto others,
	As He would have hem do.
		MARTHA SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT
Morristown. N. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HUMANI[-]Y FOR CUBA.

Oh! Cuba. ’tis for thee 
Our flags shall gem the sea
	On many a shore. 
We offer bravest sons, 
With freedom’s booming guns 
To save the starving ones 
	Forevermore. 

Antilles’ fairest pearl, 
Thy new-born flag unfurl 
	With silver star 
Star that shall light the waves, 
Above our brothers’ graves
Who hold the flag that saves 
	The tide of war. 

Spain’s yellow ensign must 
Be trailed in Cuban dust
	For child and man, 
Forgot their woes and pains 
From iron heel of Spain, 
Remembering the Maine 
	In freedom’s van.

Our fathers’ flag to thee 
We lend, oh! Cuba free—
	Love’s loyal sign;
We give our brave and best, 
From freedom’s mountain crest 
To bring thee peace and rest,
	Oh! Cuba mine.

We send our sons and sires 
To light sweet freedom’s fires
	On thy fair sea.
These comrades blue and gray 
Clasp hands upon the way, 
United, each shall say, 
	“Rise, Cuba free!”
			MARY BAIRD FINCH.
-Woman’s Tribune.


[Column 1]
WE MOTHERS.

	The Mothers’ Congress held in this 
(Salt Lake) city recently, awakened no 
small amount of interest among our ladies, 
both young and aged. But so many other 
things crowding quick and fast upon us, 
may well give rise to the fears that the in-
terest aroused may wane before any great 
amount of good shall have been effected by 
out growths from the Congress. 
	However, a subject of such great im-
portance as more enlightened motherhood, 
should not be dropped nor lost sight of, but 
continuously agitated by converts to its 
cause, until every one comes to understand 
that it is a matter that concerns each indi-
vidual, all communities and the whole
world.
	That great man Oliver Wendell Holmes, 
who was ever a staunch friend of woman, 
is credited with being the originator of the 
announcement that a child’s education
should be commenced a hundred years be-
fore its birth. That is all very well for 
those people who shall live a few genera-
tions after us; but whatever our own early 
education may have consisted in, either be-
fore or after we were born, what we are 
really most concerned about today is and 
ought to be our own and our children’s ad-
vancement and development in the most 
essential and saving elements of present 
and eternal progression. 
	This high education, which, if we moth-
ers are to impart or even to assist in impart-
ing to the children, must first become the 
governing principles of our own lives. 
Family government in these days has be-
come, to a great extent, democratic rather 
than patriarchal, as in ancient times. The

[Column 2]
old extremes in relation to these things 
have given place to new ones, which in 
many respects are as bad or worse for lack 
of restraint than the former were for undue 
restriction. Fathers are no longer looked 
up to as leaders, or even as counselors in 
many homes; and mothers who fail by 
word and example in doing their part to in-
stil into their children’s minds and hearts 
due respect for their fathers, will also fail 
in retaining the respect which as mothers 
they should have a right to expect from their
children.
	The children certainly have rights also, 
which should be as carefully guarded by 
the parents as their own. And one of 
these sacred rights is the right to be wisely 
disciplined, and taught during infancy and 
childhood the beautiful home lessons which 
every mother should delight in teaching, 
those lessons of the heart rather than of 
the head. 
	First of all to know God as being truly 
our Father in Heaven. Yes, first to know 
God. I believe the baby may with its 
very first awakening to understanding, 
draw from its mother’s breast the spirit of 
faith and love and trust with its daily 
nourishment. The spirit of prayer, which 
with infant breath may be wafted to the 
Heavenly Presence and recognized, even 
before the lips can lisp the first syllable. 
Thus the education commenced before birth 
(if begun aright) goes on without cessa-
tion. 
	The next lesson after prayer, I believe, 
should be unselfishness. With these two 
lessons firmly established in the child’s
heart and mind, all the other matters per-
taining to the highest home education will 
follow in their courses easily and naturally. 
It is perfectly natural for an unselfish per-
son to be polite. The Golden Rule, “To
do to others as you would be done unto,”
is all there is to true politeness. And yet 
politeness has so much to do in each life. 
	To be able to lay self aside and study the 
interest of others, finding joy in so doing, is
indeed one of the highest attainments to 
which mortals can hope to reach. And yet 
it really is among the first and most im- 
portant lessons which can be placed before 
the child. 
	If there is anything in the world that a 
mother might be justified in allowing her-
self to be a little selfish over, it is the love 
and confidence of her children. Yet even 
in this she must be particularly guarded, 
or she will make mistakes which will bring 
regrets instead of pleasure. In taking all
the parental care and responsibilities which 
legitimately belong to her (and they form 
no mean portion) a mother must be very 
exact in the measurements of many im-
portant items, which will be submitted for 
her consideration, lest she trespass upon 
the rights of that superior adviser, that 
lawful head of the household, the father of 
her children.
	A son, perhaps in all the freshness and 
glory of early manhood, comes to his moth-
er with a question of more than usual im-
portance which he is impatient to have set-
tled at once. He takes her in his arms, as 
she used to do by him before he had grown 
taller, heavier and stronger than herself. 
The thought of the changed condition 
brings a happy, grateful feeling to both 
mother and son. Then he urges the neces-
sity of an immediate decision being made.
Kisses her and pleads again that she will 
no longer hesitate, but answer the question

[Column 3]
which means so much to them. She might
answer him “yes” or “no” thinking to
preserve the dignity her son accords to her
by making her his counselor. But, to
maintain the proper order in the home
government, and once more to impress up-
on the mind of her faithful boy, the weigh-
ty lesson which she has so often repeated to
him, of looking to his parental head for
the solution of all such important and diffi-
cult questions, she says, “I must not
answer this, my son; I’ll tell you what we
will do to get the correct answer. We will
both of us pray unitedly that your father
may be inspired to give you the right coun-
sel in regard to this matter. And we must
be satisfied with what he shall say about it.
Give him his own time to consider the sub-
ject, and make up your mind that what he
decides will be the best for you, now and
always, and it will never fail you.” If the
mother had felt before hand that such a
declaration would be lessening her influence
with her son by pointing him to higher
authority than her own, the feeling does
not remain afterwards. She has done her
duty both to her child and his father, and
her reward is in the satisfaction she feels
over it.
	And when a few days later the father’s
decision is given, and proves to be the same
that her own must have been, and their
boy, though greatly disappointed, says
manfully, “That settles it!” and with a
heroism which the parents had scarcely
dared hope for in their boy, he throws off
the old “idea” as soon as possible, and with-
out giving any one trouble over it, inter-
ests himself in whatever the rest of the
household are interested in, that mother
feels a thousand times repaid for any sacri-
fice she has ever made for that boy. But
there are mothers and boys who do not have
such happy terminations to some of their
knotty questions.
	We mothers sometimes have much to
grieve over in our children that might be
avoided, if every household would form it-
self into a “Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion,” for the purpose of home education.
In such an organization the tiniest tot that
could speak as well as the parents, grand-
parents, older children, hired help, and
every resident in the home would be learn-
ing daily lessons of usefulness and happiness
superior in some respects to any lesson that
may be learned at school.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


MRS. STANTON'S LETTERS.—It is our 
duty to kindle the fires of liberty on both 
continents and on all the islands of the sea. 
I know that war makes great suffering, 
and so does what we call peace under the 
competitive system,for the mass of mankind. 
My sympathies go out to our boys in rags 
in our mines, factories, jails and prisons, 
and to the despairing mothers who can 
give them neither food, clothes nor a sure 
abiding place. 
	Let the fight go on until every tyrant 
learns that by divine right every man and 
woman has the title deed to enough of this 
green earth for a permanent home from
which no person can eject them. When 
the laws and constitutions, creeds and 
codes do this, the State and Church will 
have a new value. We see the signs on all
sides of the new day dawning when the 
competitive system will give place to the 
new gospel of co-operation.


28 WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Business hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.
		Salt Lake City, August 15, 1898.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 

	The Relief Society Conference of Salt 
Lake Stake will be held in the Assembly 
hall in this city, on Saturday, September 
4, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., as usual. It is confidently hoped 
that every branch in the Stake will be rep-
resented by its president and a number of 
the members. Bishops and presiding 
brethren are cordially invited and all others 
who are interested in charitable and philan-
thropic work for the good of humanity. By 
order of M. Isabella Horne, President.


[Column 1]

THE WAR AND ITS EFFECTS.

There was never a time in the world’s
history so full to overflowing of matters of
great importance as the present and especi-
ally this year, the world over teems with 
interesting and even exciting conditions and 
circumstances, and those who live today 
cannot fail to be impressed with the stirring 
events that cast their shadows all about us, 
making one feel alive to the very centre of 
his being. 
To enumerate the remarkable occurrences 
in detail is the work of the daily papers,
and what a labor it is, and who can read 
what is written without strong emotional 
sensations. “Whither are we drifting?”
might well be asked, but who shall answer? 
Have we really fallen upon evil times? One 
might almost think so, and yet there are 
blessings innumerable vouchsafed us even 
in these times of war and bloodshed and 
desolation.
The war is over we hear repeated and re-
echoed on all sides, but its attendant 
consequences cannot be done away with for 
a long time and meantime conditions result-
ing from the war are not easily adjusted. 
During the period of a few months ever 
since the Cuban question forced itself upon 
the people of the United States, the most 
intense thought has been given to this 
momentous question of Cuba’s freedom; the 
destruction of the Maine precipitated the 
urgent call to arms and what has followed 
here and elsewhere can never all be told or 
written. The horrors of war that come in 
blood and wounds and disease as well as 
death are too grave and serious to dwell 
upon and one tries to put aside this terrible 
tragedy of war if it can be done; but to 
those in the midst of these scenes what 
must it be? And it is our own American 
boys, the flower of the land, the pride of 

[Column 2]
the homes of a free people. What will be 
the after effect upon these brave and gallant 
young men is still unknown and unforseen. 
Cuba is free but what of our boys who 
fought for the Cubans? Those men who 
died gloriously are safe but they are only a 
few compared to those who survive—will
life ever be the same to them again? To 
the few perhaps and we trust so to all of 
our own people the Latter-day Saints; but 
to the masses who bravely faced death as 
volunteers. It will be a problem; and 
there are home problems of great importance 
financial and moral to be considered in the 
near future. 
Men in general consider this war un-
avoidable but many women and a few men 
think it might have been avoided, but wo-
men were not considered, their opinions 
were not counted but their money, their 
homes, their taxes will make them a part 
of the after thought. Their past so far has 
been first of all to give their sons, their hus-
bands to their country, they have done this 
nobly and heroically. Then they gave ser-
vice such as women can render in many 
ways, through organizations, nurses and
ships they went into the camps and field 
hospitals and aboard the ships and in every 
way possible did efficient duty among the 
sick and wounded. And what will be the 
next chapter in the course of events—they
must bear their share of the expense of the 
nation. Men sometimes forget that women 
are property owners, that the war taxes 
will fall heavily upon women as well as 
men. Women are not exempt from tax-
ation even where there is no representation 
and that is almost everywhere as only four 
states have equal suffrage. 
This burden of taxation among others 
will have to be borne by women, for where 
women are not property owners, as in the 
family life of men and women, women 
must help to pay the taxes by economy 
and thrift if not by actual labor. The 
opinions of prominent women in the United 
States on the war question is being sought 
after by some liberal-minded editors, and 
certainly views entertained by women who
have lived three and four score years ought
to be worth something to the public.
Susan B. Anthony said: “There is, there
can be no justifiable cause for war save that 
founded on the barbarism of one or both of 
the nations entering into that mode of set-
tling differences. But Quaker though I am, 
I always hope and pray for success to the 
most nearly civilized party, and that, in this 
case, goes without a question on the side of 
United States. But the time is not far dis-
tant when fighting to settle differences be-
tween two nations will be no less horrible 
than is fighting now between two men.”
Dr. Anna H. Shaw: “I do not consider 
the present war justifiable, because war to 
be justifiable should be the last resort of a 
civilized people. President McKinley 
through the Administration representatives 
made it clearly understood that if Congress 
would adjourn and end all discussion, 
which aroused only hatred of the Spaniards 
for the Americans without relieving the 
Cubans, war would have been averted.”
Alice Stone Blackwell, a young woman,
says:“I think the war was justifiable if it 
was the only way of stopping Spanish 
atrocities in Cuba. Whether it was the 
only way or not I am not sure and do not 
feel that my knowledge of international di-
plomacy is complete enough to enable me 
to form a valid opinion. If the object 

[Column3]
could have been accomplished by any 
means short of war, the resort to arms was 
wrong. But the cruelties in Cuba had to 
be stopped in one way or the other.”
Elizabeth Cady Stanton:“I consider
war under many circumstances a blessing 
all along from the play ground to the throne. 
Through our war with England we gained
ndependence and a free republic. Through 
our Civil war we freed four million slaves. 
Every bully that is thoroughly thrashed on 
the play ground gives new liberty and self-
respect to half a dozen other boys. If we 
can overturn the Spanish dynasty in all her 
islands it will be worth the loss of men and 
ships. Life is not worth much without 
liberty. My one regret is that we did not 
thrash that cruel, brutal nation, with her 
bull fights and inquisitions, long ago. It is 
a miracle to me that she has been tolerated 
so long in the heart of Europe. Our pres-
ent civilization, on the competitive system, 
is based on the war principle: ‘Every man
for himself; starvation and death for the
hindmost.’ All talk about peace, nation-
al and international conventions are of no 
special value at this stage of our develop-
ment. Justice, liberty, equality for all first, 
and then ‘that peace that passeth all under-
standing.’”
Julia Ward Howe: “I consider the pres-
ent war with Spain to have been inevitable.
Suffering Cuba has long agonized under 
Spanish misrule. Her sufferings have been 
so aggravated by the barbarous methods of 
warfare adopted by Spanish commanders as 
to have become intolerable, not to the 
Cubans alone, but to the very heart of hu-
manity. The Christian world had reason
to be deeply concerned when the Powers of
Western Europe declined to interfere for
the prevention of the cruel outrages which 
the Spanish government inflicted upon the 
Armenians, and which were a stain upon 
the honor of Christendom. I thank God 
that we are doing something to retrieve this 
disgrace by rising up to help our neighbor 
in her need.”
Mary A. Livermore: “Whether the war 
with Spain is justifiable or not I am not 
sufficiently acquainted with the facts to 
judge. The brutal misgovernment of 
Spain for centuries has wrought such
wretchedness and desolation in Cuba, with 
no hope of a change for the better, that it 
called for the interference of the United 
States, which demanded of Spain the inde-
pendence of Cuba. They that are strong 
ought to bear the infirmities of the weak 
and not to please themselves. The ques-
tion of Cuban freedom could not be sub-
mitted to the arbitration of European!
nations. Their attitude towards Turkey, 
red-handed with Armenian massacre and 
extermination forbade it. The United 
States was compelled to deal with Spain 
alone. Whether President McKinley could 
have accomplished the desired end without 
war, but for the interference of Congress, is 
problematical. I have thought so, but. my
opinion has been modified as the war has 
progressed. I believe in the ultimate abo-
lition of war, I cannot ignore the fact that 
it has been a powerful factor in the evolu-
tion of civilization.”
Other women whose opinions on this 
subject have been given to the press are 
Mrs. John A. Logan. Ellen M. Henrotin, 
J. Ellen Foster, Ella Knowles Haskell and 
some not as widely known. It would be.
well lor the readers of the “Exponent". to
carefully consider this question, it is well to


look into all the phases of the war problem. 
It vitally concerns us all, we in Utah are 
called upon to bear our share of the burden.
And as we have equal rights to citizenship 
we should express our views on these great 
questions of national importance and make 
ourselves acquainted with historical facts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
We observe in notes of Relief Society 
conference of Utah Stake in the last num-
ber of this paper the date is May 15, where-
as it was written July 15, and was the cor-
rect date. 
One of our widowed sisters who has to 
support herself is making by hand neat sun-
bonnets, very pretty and servicable and is 
anxious to dispose of them, they are suitable 
for school children or for smaller ones, 
playing out doors and for the girls and wo-
men rusticating in the mountains or in the 
country elsewhere or for outdoor flower-
gardening or fruit gathering. The sister 
lives at 233 B. St. at Brother L. A. Wil-
son's. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson visited the Sisters'
Relief Society conference at Morgan Stake 
and President Louie Felt of the Primary 
was present at the Primary conference, also 
Sister Stevenson. Both conferences were 
well attended and the spirit and feeling is 
reported as being excellent, the people re-
joicing as elsewhere throughout the State 
in having an abundant harvest of grain. 
It was our good pleasure to attend the 
Sisters' Relief Society conference of Malad 
Stake on the 13th and 14th of this month. 
Meetings were held at West Portage, com-
mencing with the Relief Society, Saturday 
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Lucinda Hoskins presid-
ing. Another meeting at 2 p. m., and at 
the close, perhaps 5 o'clock, the Relief 
Society conference adjourned for three 
months. The subjects dwelt upon were 
industry, silk raising included, economy in 
the household, saving grain, reading 
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their 
meetings, annual meeting of each Society 
in the Stake where yearly reports are 
given, necessity of keeping correct records, 
and many other important matters. 
The Young Ladies' conference which 
opened Saturday evening was presided 
over by President Elvira A. Harrison and 
a short but good program rendered, after 
which subjects suitable to the young peo-
ple were spoken upon. Presiden O. C. 
Hoskins was present at both the conferences 
also his counselors, and spoke briefly and 
encouragingly to the sisters. The follow-
ing morning at 10 a. m. the Y. L. confer-
ence had other exercises rendered by the 
young sisters in a very creditable manner. 
The Primary conference was held in the 
afternoon after the sacrament had been ad-
ministered. President Emma H. Halford 
presiding, assisted in the rendering of the 
program by President Philene Hall of the 
local association in West Portage. The 
choldren acquitted themselves admirably 
and observed excellent order. They sang 
Beautiful Zion; recitation by little John R. 
Gibbs; singing, Hold fast the Iron Rod, by 
Tillie McCrary, Naomi Gibbs, Rhoda 
Anthony and Margaret Gibbs; reading 
from Juvenile Instructor, Editorial 
Thoughts, Leona Zundell; recitation, little
LaFayette Young, Keep on Trying; ques-
tions from the Life of Joseph Smith, answ-
ered by the Primary Association; song, 
Sarah M. Gibbs (a very sweet voice,)
three little girls kneeling sang "Our Father in 
heaven we hallow Thy name," etc., it was a 
beautiful sight and well rendered; song, O, 
my Father, by Matilda McCrary, Annie J.
and Eliza Harris, Annie Hall, Leona Zun-
dell, Reba Heaton and Ruby Merrill, and 
accompanied on the organ; recitation, Who 
Made the Stars? little Azella McCrary; 
song, Annie J. Hall and Eliza Harris. 
About forty children took part in the exer-
cises. 
The women of the State are doubtless 
aware that there are important political 
matters pending, in which they are equally 
interested with men and that some attention 
should be given to the vital points at issue; 
as agitation increases, questions present 
themselves that one had supposed would 
never have been considered, and yet they 
cannot be thrust aside when once broached.
The Primaries come first and it is there the 
mischief is usually concocted, if women 
would attend the Primaries in goodly num-
bers there would not be so favorable an op-
portunity for accomplishing evil designs. 
It is the duty of those who can go to be 
present at the Primaries and see to it that 
good men and women are sent as delegates 
to the Conventions. 
Among the schools, academies and col-
leges perhaps the one in the city that de-
serves special notice is the Latter-day 
Saints College. It is an institution under 
the direction of the Church as the name im-
plies and deserves the patronage of the peo-
ple in whose interest it was founded and is 
maintained. Looking over the Catalogue 
for the year it seems to be thoroughly equip-
ped for its purposes in ever department of 
school work. Willard Done D. B., Ph. B., 
President, stands high among men of learn-
ing . and in the community, and the other 
teachers are well qualified for the depart-
ments to which they are assigned. The 
Board of Trustees of teh college and the 
Church Board of Education for this Stake 
are all responsible men of merit and good 
ability and know how to conduct education-
al affairs for the youth of the people and 
of the land. 
The Relief Society of this Stake had an 
outing at Saltair on Monday, August 1,
and a very enjoyable time. President 
Woodruff and President George Q. Cannon 
honored the sisters of this charitable organ-
ization by their presence and also President 
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Jos. E. 
Taylor and C. W. Penrose and others. 
Sister Zina D. H. Young was one of the party 
and many other noble and venerable 
women of the Church. Sister M. I. Horne 
president, and her aids, as well as all the 
presidents of teh wards in teh city and 
county rendered efficient aid in making 
the Stake party a success. The exercises 
were such as could be seen principally, 
dancing, and recitations by John P. Meakin, 
who could be heard fairly well. He gave 
Sheridan's Ride, Sunshine and Drake's 
Address to the Flag. President Woodruff 
favored the ladies with remarks upon the 
Society which were greatly appreciated. 
Those who in any way assisted many feel 
compensated in the results of the under-
taking socially and financially, and to those 
who helped on the program the heartfelt 
thanks of the President herself and the en- 
tire Society are due, and even the day itself 
was all that could be desired. 
Our sisters will perhaps feel more the 
importance of sustaining the "Exponent" 
when they learn that the Woman's Depart-
ment of the great Exposition at Hague has 
solicited a complete file of the paper to be 
sent them from its publication in 1872; but 
feeling what that would mean to prepare 
all the volumes and send them such a 
distance, we prepared two books, one con-
taining the entire volumes of 25 and 26 
from June 1896 to June 1892- also one 
book containing a few miscellaneous num-
bers from each of teh 26 volumes. These 
were bound in soft leather with gilt let-
tering and sent by mail to Dr. Aletta H.
Jacobs who has charge of this department. 
We also forwarded one copy of our poems 
"Musings and Memories." Dr. Jacobs 
in response says she feels they should have 
had the complete set of the papers - and 
that we must prepare them for the 
World's Exposition in Paris in 1900. We 
hope the sisters will not feel after this 
that the "Exponent" is of little or no con-
sequence.


IN MEMORIAM. 

MANSON JESSE WOODWARD.
	At Kansas City, Mo., on the evening of July 18,
1898, Manson Jesse Woodward, after a long
illness entered into rest, aged seventy-seven years 
and three months, born April 21, 1821, in Peters-
ham Worcester Co., Mass. Impressive funeral
services were held at the house Wednesday 20
burial in Mount Vernon, at Atchison, Kansas,

Tenderly folded in mother earth’s breast,
All that is mortal is now laid to rest;
Long suffering thro’ day, watching thro’ night
Ne’er more can trouble the worn spirit’s flight.
Out from the border-land-life’s fitful dream,
Into life infinite where peace reigns supreme.
Faith points away from the flower-decked sod,
To Soul’s release with a merciful God.
	 L. M. H.


FOREIGN LETTER. 

Malaela, Samoa, July 8, 1898.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	So little you hear of Samoa and so many
Elders have been here proclaiming the Gos-
pel, and our mission has been organized
eleven years, during that time there have
been one hundred and nine missionaries, so
we are now a thoroughly organized mission.
The manners and customs of this people are
different from ours, and the mode in which
we are compelled to proclaim the Gospel so
departing from the usual method, I thought
a letter might be of interest to you and the
readers of the “Exponent.”
	My husband and I left Manti Sep. 9,
1897, for a mission to Samoa. We de-
parted from San Francisco Sep. 10, 1897,
on the steamer Mariposa, all our Elders go
second class. The accommodations on the
Mariposa are not very good on account of
the second class apartments having been
transformed from steerage rooms, but the
same class on some of the other vessels is
very much improved. Sep. 23, we an-
chored at Honolulu where we met Elders
Hill and Ahlstrom, who escorted us to the 
Mission house where we had dinner, chat-
ted about Zion and our voyage. Honolulu
is truly a picturesque city adorned with
lawns, flowers and palms. At 2 p. m. we
again raised anchor. Our voyage was


[Column 1]
calm, there being no high winds or tropical
rains. On Sep. 30. at 10 a. m. we went up
on deck and with the aid of field glasses
we beheld Samoa in the hazy, blue distance.
As we came nearer we could see the out-
lines of the island, next the stately palms,
dotted here and there with white smoke
curling heavenward from the ovens of food,
the little village among the palms, and last
the dusky natives in their curious dress and
canoes. Owing to the bad harbor at Apia
there is no wharf, so we were met on deck
by President Wood who took us ashore in a
small boat. After landing in Apia the
president had a small boy drive us three
miles along the coast to Fagalii, the mission
headquarters. There we met Elders Chaun-
cy Spilsbury, William A. Moody, William
McDermott, D. Foster Cluff and Edwin
Smart. In the evening when President
Wood returned we met in testimony and
sacrament meeting, a usual welcome ac-
corded to all the Elders on their arrival.
	The mission headquarters is a neat little
five roomed frame house surrounded by
lawns, dotted here and there with ferns,
cactus, roses and various flowers adapted to
the climate. Although no mistress person-
ally adorns the home, yet the ideas of a
mistress are seen in all its arrangements.
Samoa, as Stevenson says, is the paradise of
the South Pacific. The natives are not in-
dustrious. Nature produces their food with
but little work on their part, thus fostering
indolence; however, the talo needs consider-
able attention as it must be irrigated and
weeded.
	The new woman has not yet come to
Samoa. She is of little consequence here
save in courting. When married she gath-
ers the food from the bush, makes the cigar-
etts for the men, as smoking is universal;
her name is significant, “Faletua,” the
back part of the house.
	In an article in the February number of
the “Exponent” entitled “Polynesia,” de-
scribing the customs of some of the South
Sea islanders, the custom of ava drinking is
referred to as follows:
	“After the [-]atives have drunk th ir fill of awa
(ava) they simply fall over from their seats on
the mats on which they have been sit ing while
drinking, and sleep ou[-] the effects of the drug, un-
til which it would be impossible for them to stand
up for a moment.”
	Since the arrival of our Elders eleven
years ago there has been no such custom.
One of our first missionaries, Elder E. J.
Wood, who is now on his second mission as
president, never heard of such a thing. In
preparing the ava instead of its being mas-
ticated by the virgins, it is pounded fine on
smooth rocks for the purpose, put in a
wooden bowl where it is then strained,
after which it is served to the chiefs by the
virgins with great ceremony.
	In the same article the writer says:
	"Speaking about storms in the tropics my hus-
band relates an experience he had in Samoa.
While crossing a lava bed [-]bout twelve miles i
extent together with a traveling companion, a
regular tropica rain storm came upon them; and
such a storm conveys the sense of "pourin[-]"
more than raining to the average American. See-
ing the storm approach m[-] husband i[-] speaking
to his companion expressed the regret they had
taken no overcoats along. “Overcoats,” respond-
ed his companion, “just look at me, and if you
like you can fol ow my example.” To his sur-
prise his companion immediately undressed him-
self and put his clothes in his ittle and satchel.
My husband hesitated but finally did likewise, and
the result was that when the storm abated they
both had dry clothing to put on.”
	For fear the readers may think this is the

[Column 2]
way the Elders travel, as the subject of the
incident is the traveling Church historian,
I will simply state it is the first incident of
its kind in Samoa that our president has
ever heard of; although we have rains that
fully convey the sense of pouring and bliz-
zards accompanying them to make it more
severe, yet such an act would not for one
moment be countenanced in the Samoan
mission. Contrary wise the Elders are
very, very particular about their person
and dress, remarkably neat considering the
class of people they labor among. I have
no wish to criticise the writer, but simply to
state facts is the reason why I have men-
tioned these things.
	Conditions make differences in the meth-
od of proclaiming the Gospel. For instance,
the Savior’s command to His apostles that
they should go forth and preach without
purse or scrip is impossible in some coun-
tries on account of laws forbidding it.
Holding outdoor meetings in Samoa is not
necessary as in America, for there is always
a house that the earnest Elder may have
for the simple asking for it. Although
Samoa has been termed barbaric which
warrants ignorance on the part of the in-
stigator, Samoan civilization has some of
the characteristics of an ideal community.
Seldom indeed a young man is found who
cannot read or write, and from a narrative
point of view knows Genesis to Revelation
with considerable clearness, yet doctrinally
their views are rather shallow. The method
of proclaiming the Gospel in Samoa is left to
the good judgment of every Elder. Tracts
are distributed and house to house visits
are made. When a chief or man of author-
ity embraces the Gospel he is generally the
beginner of the Church in that village.
He builds a house with the assistance of
the Elder in which meetings are held on
Sunday and generally one during the week.
The house also is the home of the Elder.
A school is commenced with great num-
bers for the first few days. All novelties
have their followers. The English lan-
guage is a coveted gem on Samoa. School
dwindles down to a very few; generally
the children who stay embrace the Gospel
and many times have been the means of
bringing their parents into the Church.
	Four churches are established on Samoa.
Faiti, which came first, is the Lutheran
church; the Toga, because it came from
Toga, is the Wesleyan church; the Catholic;
and last and fewer in number is the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Much
bitterness is manifested towards us by the
teachers of villages as one by one the sheep
over which they are man-made shepherds
hear the voice of the Good Shepherd and
follow Him, thereby lessening their flocks,
and increasing the fold of Christ. Out of
the population of 30,000 on Samoa upwards
of 1,000 have embraced the Gospel.
	There are at present twenty-seven Elders
and three sisters laboring on the islands of
Samoa. A great field is open for our sis-
ters in teaching the people the art of dress,
as they are very careless about their person.
A taste must be cultivated for neatness;
Spencer says that ornamentation precedes
dress. This does not seem to be verified
with the Samoans, usefulness seems to be
their paramount consideration in clothing.
As to their homes they could be very much
improved in neatness and convenience.
This can only be done by rearing their chil-
dren and instilling into them entirely new
ideas concerning home life. I have had a

[Column 3]
class in sewing and crochet work, they
"pick it up" very readily, it gives me great
delight to start them in this work. Crude
as are the results, yet all reformations have
small beginnings. I hope an evolution
will be carried on until we have them carry-
ing that glorious banner—Civilization in its
true meaning.
Your sister on Samoa,
(MRS.) SEVERNE SNOW WITBECK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A VISIT TO BEAR LAKE.

	July 2. Night on the train: speeding
along through the darkness with an oc-
casional stop; lights flashing here and there;
while nearing stations the shrill screech of
the engine, then away into the darkness
again.
	In the palace cars brilliant with light and
grandeur wearied humanity lounges on the
cushioned chairs; family groups presenting
pictures of ease and rest. Young mothers
embracing their sleeping infants charm the
eye with their grace and beauty. Change
cars at Cache Junction with the accompan- 
ing hurry and bustle; parting with those
who go to Cache Valley, goodbye to the 
darling babies, then away again into the -
night.
	Some passengers sleep while others
lounge at their ease. Away the train
speeds, station after station left behind, un-
til the many shining lights of Pocatello
gleam out in the darkness. Change cars
for Montpelier, then on again as before.
Soon faint glimmerings of light appear
over the eastern mountains, that herald the
approach of day; later the sun sends golden
rays of gladness over the land. The moun-
tains are lower here than our own Wasatch
towers, and the winding stream is spanned
by many bridges.
	How beautiful and dainty is the scene in
the early morning light! The landscape
changes as we near Soda Springs, the
ground assuming a brown and copper col-
ored appearance, and the mountains also
change their garb.
	On we speed again, reaching Montpelier
at 8 a. m. The fresh faces of the travelers
of the day before are weary and faded now
but the heavy eyes visibly brighten as we
reach our journey’s end. Waiting carri-
ages carry us over to Bloomington and our
kinsfolk.
	How glad we are to meet! after all blood
is thicker than water, and these are our
kindred. How manly the boys; how kind
and gracious the girls! “We hope your
stay among us will be pleasant, we are
glad to see you.” How royal the welcome!
Now to visit, renew old friendships, form
new ones and talk of the days gone forever.
	First of all a visit to the graves of our
loved uncle and aunt high up on the west-
ern hillside, overlooking the valley of bus-
tle and life and the homes of their sons and
daughters whom they have left to carry on
their life work. Now all is peace, they
have been faithful unto death, these sturdy
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley and their
name is honored among the sons of men.
“After life’s fitful fever they sleep well.”
	How I loved auntie! I think of her
goodness as I gaze on the cold, gray stone
that marks her resting place. What a kind-
ly warm heart she possessed; her counsels
rise to mind now, “Nay speak no ill, 
and child return good for evil.”
	Then I think of her sorrows, parting


[Column 1]
with all her baby girls save one. Some
sleep under the daises and buttercups of
England where they were born, one came
to them on the stormy Atlantic,a little Sea-
Born, but she only came for a little while;
journeying up the broad, muddy Mississippi
on the way to Zion she passed from earth.
The steam boat landing on the river’s bank,
a little grave is dug and she is laid tender-
ly away. Even the rough boatmen drop
the tear of sympathy on the lonely little
mound, the boat resumes her way and
auntie is bereft of her baby. Yet she too 
is at rest the evening breeze sighing over
the mountain soothes her dreamless sleep.
Near her lies Eliza who lived but twelve
short years, then rested on the journey.
Cousins William and Bailey are near with 
other grandchildren. My lips frame a
prayer. O, auntie are you happy now on
the Echoless Shore with all your little ones?
Cousin Leah is with us, auntie's precious
daughter whom she left a youthful bride.
She has a lovely little daughter now and
two sons.
	And auntie’s sons; they have many sons
and daughters now who love to hear of
their grandparents. And all are doing
well, laboring under the Gospel Banner,
magnifying offices of trust and all in the
faith.
	The shadows have grown long, the full
moon just peeping over the mountains,
where it hangs low in the sky, the Bear
Lake catching and reflecting the beams on
its peaceful bosom, looks like a sea of glass
in the moon’s full glory.
	A quiet Fourth spent on the island far up
in the canon. Friends chatting, a nice
little program carried out, races run amid
the glee of the children, a quiet visit with
Nature in her tangled, leafy dress, then
home again to the town. Visit follows
visit until we have met all our cousins in
their own homes. A pleasant little tea at
President Hart’s by invitation of his ami-
able wife, meeting in friendly converse her
sister, Mrs. Sam Hill of Salt Lake.
	By request meeting with the Relief Soci-
ety and Y. L. M. I. A., the sisters loving
and kind, the time is agreeably spent.
	Then the farewell reunion at the old Dun-
ford home with its wide porches and gen-
erous rooms, now the property of cousin
Oliver C. Dunford where he resides since
his return from his New Zealand mission.
The tables are spread under the trees with
the bounties of earth, around which all
gather large and small. At last goodbye
in the room sanctified by their mother’s
dying breath, which hallows it still and
falls like a benedictiun as one enters there.
Goodbye to Bear Lake and to friends, lov-
ing ones “Goodbye.” Tears fall as the
words are uttered. Farewell, farewell. it
may be for years and it may be forever.
	Midnight at Montpelier, then away again 
into the darkness. Early morning at Cache
Junction then up through lovely Cache
Valley, past Logan where the Temple
clearly shows through the morning mists.
We stop at Whitney and are met by my
two stalwart sons, and soon kiss daughter
Eliza and the baby. Days pass by visiting
loved ones in Preston and Franklin.
	Dinner with Cousin George on his birth-
day made happy by the presence of his
charming wife and family.
	By invitation July 24 finds us at the con-
ference in Gentile Valley. What a pretty
picture! The Bear river winding its way
in and out, dense willows on its banks with

[Column 2]
here and there the homes of the Saints.
Some spots are truly picturesque. After a
night’s rest at Bishop Pond’s hospitable
home we drive to the Grove. The meet-
ings are well attended, about six hundred
Saints present who picnic there between
the meetings, all so happy and generous.
The harvest is bounteous. For miles and
miles on either side of the road the wheat
on dry farms is very heavy and abundant.
Some of the party exclaim:"It is mar-
velous!” If the world could but see such
grain raised without a drop of water, they
would say the day of miracles was not past.
Everywhere it is the same, the earth is
yielding in her strength for the sustenance
of man. July 24 in the forenoon another
Stake of Zion is formed named the Bannock
while the old Bannock is changed to Fre-
mont. Thus Zion spreads and grows.
President Lewis S. Pond is chosen Presi-
dent of the new Stake.
	The afternoon service is devoted to a
Memorial for the Martyrs of the Maine.
The story of the treachery that led to their
death was eloquently told by Prof. Hick-
man of Preston. The Sabbath day and
the theme are affecting. In this solemn
quiet, far away from the busy marts of men,
in this grove of poplar trees, the world
with its treachery seems very far away.
Choice music interspersed with national
airs was rendered by the Oneida Stake
choir under the efficient leadership of Prof.
Edwards. A talented young lady, Miss
Elva, the daughter of Bishop Parkinson of
of Preston, feelingly recited the poem,
“Hispania” under the floating stars and
stripes. A generous sum was given for
the monument
	July 25 impressive addresses by Apostles
Merrill, Grant and Cowley, also President
S. B. Young of the First Quorum of Seven-
ties, and Patriarch John Smith.
	President George C. Parkinson feelingly
bade the Saints goodbye over whom he had
been presiding so long; love was the bur-
den of his words, while God’s blessing was
invoked on them forever.

	The world is full of sad “Good Byes,”
		And often falls the parting tear;
	Our lives are changed, our hearts are numb,
		Old paths diverging here.

	And now farewell to our friends in Gen-
tile Valley, as we turn our faces homeward.
A sense of gratitude wells up in the heart
to God for His love and care over us, and
thanksgiving that we are safely home once
more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	July, 1898.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	The regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held in the “Ex-
ponent” office, Saturday evening, July 30,
1898. Opening prayer by Phebe C. Young,
after which the secretary called the roll,
responsive patriotic sentiments being given.
	The subject of incorporating the club
was mentioned by the president, but no
action being taken the matter was laid on
the table until next meeting. It was
moved and seconded that the next regular
meeting would not be until September 30,
in the meantime an outing at Saltair would
be given; a motion was made by Dr. E.
R. Shipp that the day for this outing should
be August 17th, providing satisfactory ar-
rangements could be made.


Dr. Ellis R. Shipp then read an interest-
ing and carefully prepared paper on the
Red Cross Society. Discussion followed,
after which Ruth M. Fox kept the mem-
bers deeply interested in her well written
paper on Modern Warfare. An able dis-
cussion followed and the club adjourned.
	AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Asst. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
		
	MELISSA LOTT SMITH WILLIS.
	On the morning of July 13, we were called upon
to part with one of our dear sisters and co-labor-
ers, Melissa Lott Smith Willis, aged seventy-four
years and six months. Sister Willis was one of
the first teachers in the Re[-]ief Society of Lehi
which was organized in the year 1868, and in
1870 she was appointed president of the same,
which position she faithfully filled until 1890
when she was sustained as one of the counselors
to President Standring, acting in that capacity at
the time of her demise. Being one of the early
settlers in Lehi and of an exceedinely kind and
charitable disposition, Sister Willis was ca led
upon unnumbered times to visit the sick, afflicted
and d ing and administer to their wants both phy-
sically and spiritually, and many can testify that
she has been a friend to them in very deed, al-
ways having words of sympathy and counsel to
give those who were in need. Though called up-
on to pass t rough much trial and tribulation
Sister Wi lis has never been heard to murmur or
complain, but felt to acknowledge the hand of
God in all things, proving faithful through it all.
And although we are called upon to mourn the
loss of a dear friend we know she is at rest and
associati[-]g with those loved ones she so often
talked about in life, the happ[-] meeting she so
longed for where the faithful receive their just
reward, and we feel to say all is well with her.
	Reso[-]ved, That we place these sentiments on
our records, one be sent to the bereaved family,
and one to the ‘'Exponent” for publication.
			REBECCA STANDRING, President,
			HARRIET JACOBS, Counselor,
			M. A. ROBERTS, Secretary.
	
	ELIZABETH BEWICK COLLINGS.
	By request of President Julia P. Lindsay I for-
w rd the following notice of the death of Stake
counselor of the Relief Society, Sister Elizabeth
Collings
	Elizabeth Bewick Col[-]ings was born September
13, 1813, at Sunderland, England. She was mar-
ried to James Collings August 3, 1834, was bap-
t[-]zed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints December 6,1849,at Deptford,Kent, Eng-
land and emigrated to America in 1834. She
crossed the plains in 1860 in Jesse Murphy’s com-
pany, walking most of the way and driving cows
in turn with the other sisters. She arrived in
Salt Lake in August 1860. She and her husband
moved to Logan, Cache Co., in 1862 where they
resided until 1866 when they moved to Paris,
Idaho.
	When the Relief Society was first organized in
Paris, Idaho, in 1868 she was a [-]eacher; when it
was reorganized in 1872 she was chosen counselor
to President Julia P Lindsay, in which position
she labored until a Stake organization was affect-
ed in 1879, when she was called to act as first
counselor to President Julia P. Lindsay in a
Stake capacity, which position she held until her
death which took place on the 14th of June, 1898.
She was the mother of eight children, four of
whom are still li[-]ing, and has thirty-four grand-
children.
	She has taken the “Exponent” for ten [-]ears.
She has done work in the Temple for all of her
people as far back as she could secure their
names. She was devoted to her husband who
survives he[-], and they were like lovers up to the
time of her death.
	She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and was beloved by all who knew her.
					N. H. ALLRED, Sec.
	St. Charles, Idaho, August 3, 1898


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall June 18, 1898, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless thee.” Prayer by Siste


[Column 1]
Margaret O. Brown. Singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings." Reading of
minutes unavoidably omitted.
President Horne said she was thankful
She was with us today after the accident
she had met with. As she was falling out
of the carriage she thought about so many
aged people dying by accidents lately. 
Brother Lyman had told her that her time
had not come yet. She was very glad to
have Sister Zina and Sister Kimball with
us and hoped something would be said that
would strengthen us. These meetings
were organized that we might speak one to
another and not be afraid, this is the work
of God, we are his children, we are here to
keep our bodies clean, to be pure and un
spotted from the world. We need to get
spiritual food, live our religion and keep
the commandments of God. 
Sister Brown often thought what bless-
ings we enjoyed and that these meetings
were a great blessing to the sisters, spoke
of her labors in the Temple and said her
heart was full of joy and thankfulness for
her many blessings.
Sister Smith was glad to see Sister
Young and Sister Kimball and hoped that
Sister Horne might recover entirely from
her accident. Said neither she nor her fam-
ly ever went on pleasure excursions on Sun-
day.
Sister Pixton thought we might serve
the Lord one day in the week, we might
prepare our food on Saturday and do less
cooking on Sunday. We should set a good
example for our children and neighbors.
Sister Kimball had once counseled the sis-
ters to take time to read, and she had fol-
lowed the advice and had taken much pleas-
ure in reading papers and Church works.
Sister Louisa Wright bore her testimony
and said that it was. the first time that she
had spoken here.
Sister Steel thought it was time for her
to speak. She never enjoyed other meet-
ings as much as these, we always have a
good spirit, this was the reason she liked to
come. We should do the Lord’s business
first then we will be blest
Sister Ann Hardy said she had never
doubted this work, was a stranger here
from Mexico, she always came here to
meeting when she could. She came to this
valley in early days, had seen the varied
changes the people had gone through.
Bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Zina D. H. Young said it was now
nearly thirty years’ since these meetings
were organized by President Young. We
come here to get spiritual food; we are one;
we have the Holy Ghost with us and we
are learning to appreciate heaven. Our
children know when we attend to our
duties. We should pray to have our mem-
ories strengthened and that we may never
be ungrateful for the blessings we enjoy.
We have to make sacrifices. She had en-
joyed meeting the few present who had
braved the storm to get here.
Sister Sarah Kimball was glad to be
here. Said it was love that prompted us
to bless her and the sisters. The first
grand organization of women was intro-
duced by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
great blessings that have come to women
have been through him; eventually they
will give credit where credit is due. Spoke
of the organizations of women, of Lucretia
Mott, the present Mothers’ Congress, and
their work. “Have we lived up to our ad-
vantages? I do not often get to meeting,
when I do I go hungry to be fed. We

[Column 2]
often bear the sisters testify of miracles
and things of the past. When we come
here in two weeks cannot we testify of our
desires to do good, of those things we have
done, of healings and other things? not
those things that occurred years ago."
Said she would like to talk longer but did
not wish to trespass on the time.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of our
dear aged sisters whose teachings we are
privileged to listen to; of their intelligence,
faith and good works of the prophet turn-
ing the key for woman. She had visited
Sevier and Tooele Stakes and felt thankful
for the good sisters in those places. Bore a
strong testimony and said many good
things.
Sister Horne said that the Gospel com-
prehends everything that is good and true,
we have everything in our religion. We
have women among us who do not wish to
attend spiritual meetings. The women of
Zion should be at the head. As for those
outside organizations they are all right in
their place. We should not desire to
spread out beyond the pale of the Church.
Singing, and benediction by Sister Mary
P. Silver.

Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, July
16, 1898, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Clara C. Cannon. Singing “ ’Mid
scenes of confusion.” President Horne
laid before the sisters the advisability of
the Society getting up an excursion to
Saltair. Mr. Meakin was present and pre-
liminary arrangements were made for the
affair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved.
President Horne said she was getting
stronger and better every day, felt that it
was one of the miracles of these latter days.
We could enjoy more of these miracles if we
lived for them, for our religion contained
everything both for this life and the here-
after. Spoke of the Mothers’ Congress,
said there was much that was said that was
eloquent. Spoke of the organization of the
Church, quoted a saying of the Prophet
Joseph, also of the Savior in which women
bore a very prominent part. Many of the
sayings of the prophet reminded her of the
Savior’s.
Sister Julia Sampson testified God heard
and answered prayers, even as He had
promised. Exhorted all to be faithful and
humble.
President Horne said she wished to mi-
press upon the people to lift up their hearts
in thanksgiving to God for the victory of
our soldiers, said it is an unknown thing in
history, also that God would preserve our
sons who had gone forth to battle. Felt
that God was in the conflict.
Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of a lecture
she had attended two weeks ago today in
the Logan Temple, in which the subject
was the gathering of the Jews.
Remarks were made by Sisters Mary L.
Morris, Barnes and Bassett. Closing re-
marks were made by President Horne who
said she would like every Society president
to act as a committee so that our excursion
might be a success. Monday August 1,
was decided upon as the day.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by E.T. Webb.

ZINA H. BULL Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Save Your Money!
		And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
		with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
		Company, the oldest and largest savings
		bank in Utah.
			Since the establishment of the bank
		we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
		ings accounts.
			The laws of Utah permit married
		women and also children who are minors
		to open savings accounts in their own
		name, subject to their own order. Have
		you such an account? If not, open
		one NOW.
			We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
		TEREST on any amount from one dol-
		lar to thousands, and compute said
		interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

		WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

	OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
		(In Effect July 17, 1898.
	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
			ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden		3 10 pm
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	ate points			8 55 am
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 pm
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City. Denver and Ogden 3 10 am
From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points	6 20 pm
Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach	4 00 pm

		DEPART
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City			7 00 am
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 am
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha. St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points		8 25 pm
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco		8 45 pm
For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 am
Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus		7 45 am
Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday.
Daily except Sunday.
	CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
				D. E. BURLEY.
			Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
		General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice-President and Gen. Manager

			R. K. THOMAS
		Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House
			R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
