VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1899.		NO. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Obedience Without Severity—Mrs. Amy Brown
Lyman Education and Motherhood—Lydia D.
Alder. To Branches of the Relief Society—E. R.
Snow Smith. General Conference Relief Society
—E. B. Wells, Sec. A Successful Celebration—
Nellie A. Morver. A Flourishing Branch—Rhoda
Celestia Nash. National Woman’s Relief Society
— E. B. W. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—J.
S. Woolley, Sec U. W. P. C.—Aimee C. Schil-
ler, Sec. Academy Exercises—Nellie Beecroft.
	EDITORIAL:—Peace Meeting. International
Council of Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Retrospection Hyacinth.


RETROSPECTION.

I strolled amid the quiet charm,
Of the twilight’s placid calm;
I heard the cricket’s gruesome cry,
And the katydid’s reply;
Mine eyes beheld the sun’s last ray,
Steal athwart the lucid bay,
And kiss the sailboat’s soft, white face,
And the clinging mists efface. 

My footsteps lingered near the wall,
Over-run with rosevines tall;—
Where trellis’ bent beneath the gift,
That accrued from nature’s thrift.
Sweet flowers raised their dewy heads,
And rare fragrance round me spread;
Fair Summer’s charms were everywhere,
Nor knew Winter’s grim despair.

Withal my thoughts would wander back,
Tread again the self-same track,
That led me to the fountain clear,
Whose drops filled my heart with cheer,
And robbed the past of all its pain,
Planting hope where it had lain,
Crushing the germ of discontent,
By the magic aid they lent.

Crystal drops whose phantom power,
Spanned the depth of that short hour;
And undenied, unknown, unseen,
Opened wide a mystic screen,
And gathered to each limpid breast,
The thorn that ’gainst my heart had
   pressed,
Leaving only to mark the place,
The scar they could not efface.
					HYACINTH.
March 30 1899.


[Column 1]
OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY.

	(Read at the Mothers’ Congress in Salt
Lake City, Tuesday morning, April 11th,
1899.)
	Law is the governing force of the uni-
verse. If a man keeps himself in harmony
with nature, he must obey her laws; if he
enjoys citizenship in a country, he must
obey the laws of that country, and if he is
respected in his business relations, he must
adjust himself to the laws of the business
world.
	The necessity of obedience seems so self
evident that any discussion on that subject
would seem out of place. Nevertheless
there are persons who hesitate to compel
obedience fearing lest they might injure the

[Column 2]
child’s will power. But we think this is
not so. Too frequently where there is
strong will power displayed it is a mani-
festation of selfishness.
	Children do sometimes have strong
instinctive desires in the right direction;
therefore their motives should be most
cautiously considered. But it should be
kept in mind that there is a vast difference
between desirable will power and stubborn-
ness. If we would have our children con-
tented and happy themselves and if we
would make of them desirable associates, it
is imperative that we should have them
overcome blind and unreasonable stubborn-
ness. A stubborn, unconquered child is
sure to develop into a man so self-centered
and so determined to have his own way that
he will forego pleasures and even success
rather than retract, and will be as he was
when a child, his own greatest enemy.
	But this spirit of obedience so intimately
connected with peace, order and prosperity
and so beneficial to the young man in the
outer world comes only after long training
and unceasing effort in the home.
	It is here that his first ideas and im-
pressions are formed, and it is here that
he first learns to respect the rights of
others. However, this training in obedi-
ence should be pleasant to both parent and
child, it should result from a system of
kindness and love, rather than from one
of harshness; for while we aim to prepare
the child for his life’s work it is not less
important that the home be made pleasant
to himself and others.
	It is possible to train children into strict
obedience by violent methods; but a child
so trained will be obedient only through
fear; and when he assumes responsibility
over others he will use the same harsh
method. It is in this manner that tyrants
are made.—None are so tyrranical as they
who have been reared in bondage.
	Such a plan as described may produce
obedience; but it is obedience that is de-
structive to the life of the individual and
the home.
	If then we denounce obedience through
fear the question naturally arises,—“What
should be the motive prompting proper
obedience?” The right kind of obedience
is prompted not by fear but by love,
unselfishness, and a strong regard for the
rights of others. 
	Now we are confronted with another
question. We admit in the abstract that
love is the law which should govern our
effort, but how shall we put this thought
into practice?
	Educators say that the best way to
lessen evil and develop virtue is to begin
early—the earlier the better—to cultivate in
children desirable habits; that a good habit
well formed is the best fortification against
temptation. They even go further and say
that through the power of habit the possi-
bilities in moral training are infinite.
	We all know that habits formed in early
life are the most lasting; that those formed
in later years never attain the same stability;
therefore the mother should begin early,
and from babyhood to school age—a period

[Column 3]
wherein her influence is unopposed by any
outside one—she should work with per-
sistence and determination, so that by the
time the child is 6 or 8 years old the habit
of obedience will be thoroughly established.
	We have emphasized this thought be-
cause of the tendency of so many mothers
and guardians to say, “O, he’s the baby,
let him go,”—and thus they cultivate
habits entirely opposed to those they would
form.
	It will take time and patience to train the
infant or very young child to be obedient—
but less time and less patience, than it
takes to break up the habit of disobedience.
One writer even declares that it requires
more than four-fold the power to change a
habit, than to form one.
	Thus we would make habit building the
first step.
	In forming the habit of obedience in
children and in treating cases of disobedi-
ence mothers will find that there are many
methods of procedure; but she who gives
time, study and careful thought to this
subject will very soon conclude that she
will seldom need to resort to severe
methods.
	Bolton Hall says—“It is high time to
awake from sleep in things intellectual
as well as things spiritual; in things edu-
cational as well as in things material. We
have begun to deprecate either contempt or
neglect of the rights of man, but it has
hardly yet been admitted that children
have any rights which grown people are
bound to respect; so though we have ceased
to club women, we still beat children and
make the best excuse we can for our
brutality.”
	While this “beating process” is followed
up by many mothers of today, others are
spoiling their children by unwisely indulg-
ing them in every whim—a method which
fosters selfishness and like the rule with the
hard hand also makes tyrants.
	It would appear that punishment of some
sort is not to be avoided in this mortal
existence; but when it is necessary it should
be chosen wisely and be properly applied.
	Many parents are in favor of corporal
punishment because it requires LESS TIME
and brings partially desirable results—and
indeed the results are but partially desir-
able, for while it is natural to connect the
blow with the physical nature ONLY, the
harm done the child’s spiritual nature is
infinitely greater, for it makes obtuse and irre-
sponsive those fine and tender emotions 
upon which so much reliance must be
placed for future complete development. 
	A very small child who cannot reason
will perhaps profit by having his hands
spatted, but it seems plain that you can
teach a larger child nothing by beating him
“except that you are a bigger animal, and
as revengeful as he, and that a blow hurts
which he already knows.”
	We have admitted that punishment is
necessary and now we would state that
just punishment is just;—it is an irrevoc-
able law of nature.
	Nature stands as THE GREAT teacher
of humanity, and on this subject as on all


[Column 1]
others she has something to say. Many do
not understand the voice of nature and
either add an artificial punishment or some
corrective that in no way relates to the
offence. By way of explaining the first
thought we offer the following story: A
little boy who was forbidden to go into the
street alone was persistent in this action.
One day he came in contact with a horse
and cart and was knocked down but fortun-
ately was not injured. The mother seeing
his danger rushed out in the street and
when the frightened boy ran to meet her
she gave him a vigorous whipping.
	Now we ask was not the severe fright
from which the child suffered punishment
enough of itself? We think the natural
result of his disobedience was severe, and
sufficient to teach him his mistake; but the
punishment of his mother turned his
thoughts from it and very likely filled him
with malice and distrust.
	But I think I hear you say not all
offences are pursued to that issue where the
dire consequence is manifest. For instance
we take the familiar case of a child who
continually disregards his mother’s request
by going into the water. It may be of no
avail to tell him he will catch cold or take
some violent disease, for many children are
so blessed with health that these results do
not follow. In such a case depriving a
child of liberty by tieing him up or keeping
him in the house because he has disobeyed
the laws of liberty seems a more rational
method than whipping. Another illustra-
tion we think will serve to impress the
thought of rational punishment:
	A woman who had a large family of boys
and no girls made use of her boys in the
home. She appointed one—a lad of about
12 years—to take care of the wash tubs.
He was to put them in the cellar after
the washing and keep them there. She
explained what would happen to them
if they were left out in the sun, and gave all
the caution she thought necessary.
	However, not many days after she found
one of the tubs broken down. She did not
lose her temper and punish—she simply
told him he must try to set the tub up
again. After he had worked all the after-
noon he realized the graveness of his
neglect and was filled with regret.
	If this mother had inflicted a severe
punishment her son would very likely have
been filled with anger and would have felt
glad that her tub was destroyed.
	Those who discuss juvenile discipline
often attribute all the faults to children and
none to parents, but as we readily see that
the child is for the most part what his par-
ents have made him we do not hesitate
to say that much of the blame should go to
parents. The duties of the parent are
innumerable, but the first and most im-
portant of all, are those he owes to his
children and in this direction he should put
his best efforts.
	Perhaps the hardest and most beneficial
lesson for the mother to learn is the lesson
of self control. Some one has said that
a mother should be an angel and it seems
she would need to be if she were able
to control herself at all times. She cannot
be perfect in this respect but she can exert
herself toward this end, and by having
a definite purpose in view she can accom-
plish very much. The mother who does
this will find that she can coolly reason
when she is called upon to administer
punishment. She can look for the cause of
the disobedience and can decide on the

[Column 2]
proper punishment. She does not make
threats nor say fifty things she will re-
gret the next minute.
	On the other hand look at the mother
who knows no self control; she loses her
reason, whips, scolds, makes threats that
she never keeps and is a picture that
the child will always remember—yes and
imitate if he is ever left in control of baby
sister.
	It is this lack of self control that makes
a tyrant of the parent. A mother who
is thoughtful in dispensing reward or
punishment is a director—a sympathetic
adviser; while a parent who punishes be-
cause he feels irritable or angry is tyrrani-
cal. Parents who are swayed by differ-
ent emotions fall into many errors that tend
to make disobedient children.
	The mother should early establish her
authority—she should impress upon the
mind of the child that she has many re-
sponsibilities in caring for the home, that
she understands what is for the best of
all and more than all that she is the
authority and must be obeyed.
	There is nothing more desirable, as re-
gards the life of parents and children, than
that perfect confidence exist. And in order
to secure this confidence so desirable the
parent must be truthful. So often dis-
obedience is aggravated by parents who
disregard this law. It is sadly common
to hear mothers press children into obeying
by promising them results which they
know will never come. A mother should
be truthful and constant in all her dealings
with the child—if she tells him such a
consequence will follow a certain act
she should see that it does follow and that
it follows every time the act is committed.
	She should be firm but loving and
affectionate. If she says no she should
mean no. A mother who changes her
mind often, “who makes rules in haste and
repents of them at leisure, who treats an
offence with severity at one time and with
leniency the next, is laying up miseries for
herself and for her children.” Even if
a mother has a poor method it is better
to stick to it and be firm than to have
a good method and be changable. Lack
of firmness fosters the habit of coaxing—a
firm mother will seldom be annoyed in
this.
	When children make requests (or ask
for privileges) the mother should think
a moment before answering in order to
decide exactly in the right, for if she is
busy and worried, she is very apt to say
“no”—and on reflection find that the
request could as well as not have been
granted. But if she has said a thing she
should see that it is carried out at what-
ever cost; for it is better to deprive a child
of a pleasure than to first refuse him and
then give permission. Many enslave them-
selves by offering bribes and by threats.
Children should not be bribed into obedi-
ence—if once this habit is begun there
is no opportunity to stop and in time
children will not exert themselves in the
least degree unless they receive some re-
muneration. Threatening is also to be
avoided—a child soon learns that a THREAT
means nothing and pays little attention to it.
	A mother should be just and reasonable
—reasonable from her own standpoint and
from the standpoint of the child. Sbe
should never ask him to make promises
which she knows he cannot keep and
should not measure his judgment and
ability by her own.

[Column 3]
	In making requests of him she should be
polite, for if a reasonable request is made in
a polite way the mother is very apt to
be obeyed. In severe cases if it is necessary
to command she should do so—and with de-
cision but in no case should she nag.
	She should avoid asking a child to do a
thing when he is in a bad humor and
would just as soon refuse as to obey. If
she feels that he will refuse she should
not press him into disobedience—better
first divert his attention and thus avoid
an outbreak.
	There should be established between the
mother and child a standard of right and
upon this standard all their dealings with
each other should be based. She should
be conscientious herself and teach him to be
the same. It is much easier to be obedi-
ent to law because it is right than to
be obedient, because somebody has asked us
to be.
	The position of the child to the parents
is not unlike our position to God. The
child is placed in their care and is sub-
ject to their will and upon his conception
of their qualifications will be based his
faith in them. By a moment of reflection
it will be seen that our faith in God depends
entirely on our knowledge of His attributes
—we could not trust nor believe in a God if
He were without judgment, justice and
mercy; we could not have faith in Him
if He were varying in His action; neither
will the child have faith in a parent who
lacks these qualities—his faith in them
will be in proportion to the extent of their
perfection. Let parents then bear in mind
that if they would keep the faith of
their children they must so live that their
actions will appeal to the child.
	No doubt it occurs to many mothers
as they listen to the ideas advanced, that
they are very well as theories but will
not stand the test of practice. Let me say
to those mothers if any such be here that by
exerting ourselves in this direction much
more can be done than we may at first
think. In all cases the mother must use
her judgment. Each case will need some
special attention but the ultimate good
flowing from such patience and considera-
tion will be ample reward.
	The prophet uttered a truth that the
history of the world is ever emphasizing
when he said “obedience is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of
rams.”
	Obedience is the great law that the
universe is ever emphasizing. One who
does not obey this divine command written
on every page of nature’s book finds himself
at war with everything in the world; while
the man who grows up in obedience finds
himself in harmony with everything in the
world.
	At home, in the nation, in the church, he
discovers this thought dominating all.—
“The path of obedience is the only one
that leads to absolute and perfect liberty.
It is the fundamental law of the great truth
which shall make us free.”
	(MRS.) AMY BROWN LYMAN.


WOMANS EXPONENT


The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution have been obliged by the rapid
growth of the society to secure more com-
modious rooms for headquarters. They
now have two rooms in the Presbyterian
Building, 156 Fifth Ave., New York, that
are probably the handsomest occupied by
any patriotic society in the country.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD.”

	This is a day when much thought is ex-
pended and a great deal said upon the sub-
ject of education. The colleges have long
flourished for the higher education of man,
but now their doors have been thrown open
and woman is invited to enter there. She
can choose what she will be, minister,
lawyer, doctor, or any other calling that is
there taught, or that she naturally inclines
to.
	The arts and sciences have their admir-
ers and true devotees. Music charms the
minds of some and painting of others.
Theology claims some attention, and wo-
man is now a regularly ordained minister
of the Gospel; and why not since she is
more spiritual minded than man, and living
in her heart is the fire of love and devotion
for things human and divine. Thus wo-
man’s field has expanded, grown wider and
broader, but is she happier with all this
knowledge, all these dignified positions at
her command?
	Can office or emolument fully occupy her
heart, or cause the throbbing of tender
emotions? Can aught make up for the
loss of noble motherhood? Does not this
over advanced education have a tendency to
fascinate the mind and draw it away from
the true elixir of life, wifehood and mother-
hood? The question may be asked, should
girls be educated as much as boys? I
would answer yes, and if I could only edu-
cate a part of my family I would bestow the
most upon the girls. Why? Because they
have the moulding of the next generation in
their hands. They form the characters and
regulate the standard, either high or low, of
our future Statesmen, Presidents and
Governors.
	The teachings of the mother last forever;
indelibly they are stamped on the minds of
their children. This power of the mother
for good or ill is indescribable. Then how
should a woman be educated? For some
vocation in life either high or of prestige,
or the greater, grander mission to bear the
souls of men? Being a wife, holding that
sanctified position in the home, to be a
mother, a very queen in that world, where
all her subjects are her lovers. I advocate
the highest order of education, not that
alone contained in books, which is excel-
lent, useful and perhaps indispensable, but
the broader education of the heart; to under-
stand its language, and bring to perfection
the spiritual nature implanted therein. To
comprehend its whisperings, its desires for
a higher, fuller life.
	The mind cultivated alone can be likened
unto the beautiful, green oasis, amid a
desert of sand; banks of sand where the
footsteps of men are lost. Such green
spots are veritable gardens, beautiful to the
eye, but leaving them for the onward
journey of life, they are only vaguely re-
membered while plowing with heavy feet
the vast oceans of sand.
	But the heart, consider its beauty! A
garden where luxurious flowers bloom be-
neath a Southern sun; whose grounds roll-
ing and verdant, in. perfect order, are ex-
tending as far as the eye can reach. Groves
of trees, tall and stately, where the song
birds of summer trill their sweetest notes,
hopping from bough to bough, and twitter-
ing among the heavy leaves all the happy
day through. Yonder is a river, broad and
clear, slowly and peacefully winding its
way to the sea; the great sea that ever ab-
sorbs rivers unnumbered by its restless

[Column 2]
waves that perpetually wash on the shore.
	Thus the heart that is full of love, the
spiritual thoughts well developed, reaches
out for the land of glorious, sunny land-
scapes, and life as a river flows on and on
to Eternity’s sea, across which God, the
perfection of love, welcomes the weary
traveler home.
	All these feelings produce music in the
mother’s heart, thrilling her offspring with
holy emotions, and though they may drift
away from its melody, yet some chance
changing breeze may touch the chords and
they will vibrate, playing the tunes sung of
old by the mother, and her undying influ-
ence will again be felt. She may be sleep-
ing on the hillside, mountains and oceans
may separate the child from her resting
place, but the visions of youthful days will
arise, and again he will hear her loving
words and listen to her counsels. The love
of poetry also has a strong refining force,
touching other chords of melody awakened
by the words of inspiration, which flow into
the soul making all things glad and fair.
	I have known young men who spoke
disparagingly of the religious girl, choosing
one who is lively, vivacious, and withal a
chum of thoughtless youth. But they
should consider well before staking so much
of weal or woe upon this momentous choice.
	In whose hands would you entrust the
eternal welfare of your child? With the
giddy and frivolous, or the calm, serene
eye of faith, that clearly weighs life’s ac-
tions, determining a life beyond the bounds
of earth? That hears the voice of God in
the babbling brook, and the rustling of the
leaves of the forest.
	Solomon said of old “With all thy get-
ting, get understanding,” this is as true to-
day as when it was uttered. Should we
get education? Yes, but with it get under-
standing. Oh, daughters of Eve who
choose some profession for your life com-
panion have you thought of the bye and
bye? Of your barren lives, when you sit
alone and desolate, that you can only gath-
er husks when the reaping time comes, as
it surely must ere the sun goes down?
Mothers (there are many still of the old school)
be your daughters’ companion, teach them
there is nothing of earthly happiness, that
is not known when their babe first clasps
its tiny arms around their necks; and as
sweet as the songs of angels, their infant’s
first cry; while her very being trembles
with emotion when the prattler calls her
“Mother.”
	The days of book lore, to some extent
being over—her love directing the growing
ntelligence of the child—her knowledge
should be used in instructing the men and
women of the future. Should the mother
neglect her own mind, starve it that it bear
not precious fruit, because of these endear-
ing ties? No! assuredly not. The knowl-
edge stored in days of youth can be brought
forth from time to time, to enrich the
minds of the children. They must look up
to the mother feel that she possesses the
very acme of wisdom; then they are willing
and respectful subjects. Mothers live with
your children, answer all their manifold
questions, for as often as you say you don’t
know, just as often you lose a part of your
supremacy in your home kingdom. Must
you live a life at home, and one outside of
it? Yes! Must you retain and add to the
education of early years? Yes! 
	I call to mind an instance when I had
two sons in one of the higher, classes at
school, one being two years older than the

[Column 3]
other, though both in the same grade;
while working their mathematical problems
one evening together, they could not obtain
the correct answer to one that was rather
more difficult than the others. They tried
first one method then another, but always
with the same result. Then they appealed
to mamma. These were some of my
younger children, and as it was some thirty
years since my school days, I was fearful
that I had become rusty in some of these
things. After they had read the problem
over, I read it myself, then asked the
different methods they had used in trying
to solve it. It became clear to me that
they had not used the right rule, so I said
try the rule of seven. They immediately
went to work and the long desired answer
was obtained. Looking up at me admir-
ingly, one said to the other, “Mamma knew
didn’t she?” And a realizing sense came
to me of the different feeling they would
have had, had mamma not known.
	The education obtained in school days, is
only the foundation on which to erect the
life structure. As the stones rise higher
and higher on a building, they must be
polished more and more, the eyes of men
resting upon the surface as it rises to view.
	So men scan your life work, mothers,
noting its roundness, fullness or complete-
ness; for as your children attain to manhood
or womanhood, they display to a greater or
less extent the nature of the great oak that
bore them; and like branches they spread
out into the world, reaching heavenward, or
being of the earth earthly, showing weak-
ness and failing. But I must add the
judgment is not always a righteous one;
for perchance when you were weary and
resting in fancied security, an enemy
entered your garden, sowing thorns among
your choice wheat. Mothers be early and
late upon the watch tower, constantly over-
looking your own little garden plot. Will
you become weary? Yes, verily! Will
you always thus have to watch? No! For
the day comes, aye too soon, that they will
go forth into the great wide world leaving
you to rest on the battlefields of the Past.
	How much good has your early education
done in raising your sons and daughters
who today shine in the world? Has not
your heart beat warm and fast with thanks
to God, that you were thus well equipped
for the race of life ? Then to the knowl-
edge early obtained, how many glorious
principles, not then dreamed of, have been
added. Your views and thoughts have
widened and deepened until mellow with
years, your wisdom doth shine.
	Then educate the girls, not one sided, to
shine as butterflies in the world of fashion,
O, no, not that! Of all things imaginable
this is the most foolish and hollow—but to
be true, noble women, like Timothy’s
mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois,
whose faith was so well known to the
Apostle Paul.
	So that with all the advantages and edu-
cation of the 19th century, so nearly the
20th—you may never be shipwrecked from
God, who is the same yesterday, today and
forever. Let the office and position now
within the reach of woman, but serve as a
means to an end; that end being a higher
and nobler womanhood. Then this age so
fruitful in invention and progress, with the
rapid strides made for the elevation and
education of woman, will shine in the an-
nals of the world forever.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 24, 1899.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1899.


PEACE MEETINGS.

	A letter recently received from Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, (whose name is well known
in Utah) recommends that women’s meet-
ings be held in the interest of peace and
arbitration on the evening of May 15, the
Czar’s Peace Conference having been set
for May 18. Mrs. Sewall further states
these meetings are to be held all over the
world. A Central Committee having been
formed including some representatives from
every country, largely, she states, through
the influence of Frau Professor Salenka of
Munich. Lady Aberdeen, the present
president of the great International Council,
is one of the committee.
	We are anxious to respond to Mrs. Sew-
all’s suggestions and to invite representa-
tives from all women’s organizations and
from all parties and sects to unite in this
meeting in Salt Lake City and elsewhere in
the State, to show our appreciation of the
efforts being made for peace among nations,
and that we are in favor of all difficulties
and differences being settled, if possible, by
arbitration.
	The desire and feeling on the part of the
committee seems to be “to reduce blood-
shed, to reduce the awful immorality that
always attends and follows war, and to re-
duce the awful expense of it.” These
sentiments make common appeal to all
hearts.
	We are hourly expecting to receive
other more definite suggestions in reference
to the meetings, but certainly prayers,
hymns and speeches bearing upon the sub-
ject of peace made by both men and wo-
men cannot fail in producing good and har-
monious feelings. Leading men and wo-
men already consulted on the subject are in
full sympathy with the movement.
	The first meeting of the International
Council after the formal opening on June
26, will be devoted to the subject of Inter-
national Arbitration, which shows the in-
terest this subject has awakened in the
minds of people of many nations and coun-
tries. Carefully prepared papers and dis-
cussion will awaken many more to the im-
perative need of a better method of settling
difficulties than going to war, with a view
to conquer or kill or both, and the effect
upon the world and upon society is most de-
basing in its tendency. With the enlight-
ment of the age should come a higher
sense of honor, and a more thorough under-
standing of the rights of all nations to a
government by its own people, or at least
the consent of the governed. But nations


are slow in coming to a knowledge of each
other’s rights as citizens of the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The article on the third page of this issue
entitled “Education and Motherhood,” was
prepared for a Department Meeting in
Washington, D. C., but as no such meeting
was held we have asked permission to pub-
lish it in the “Exponent.”) 
	The 31st Annual Convention of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association
convened at Grand Rapids, Michigan,


April 27 to May 4, 1899. Miss Susan B.
Anthony will be present in person with her
devoted officers, vice president, secretaries
and so on, and the work they have out-
lined if undertaken and carried forward
will mark a heroic crisis in affairs vitally
emphazing human progress.
	A second letter from Mrs. Sewall,
American Member of Peace and Arbitration
Committee, gives more direct information
concerning the simultaneous meetings to be
held in the promotion of peace and justice
(instead of force) in International relations.
This meeting will mark an epoch in the
history of the world. They are to be held
in all the important towns of each country.
The countries that have already consented
are England, the United States of America,
Holland, France, Germany, Austria and
Japan many other countries are expected
to and probably will do the same. Salt
Lake City should certainly do the very best
to make the meeting in this famous city a
grand success. It will certainly be a
memorable and historic event, if pos-
sible let the women of Utah go down to
history as cooperating in this great femi-
nistic movement for the good of the whole
world.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
which will hold its Quinquennial session
in London, England, commencing June 26,
1899, will undoubtedly be the greatest and
most interesting gathering of women that
has ever been publicly convened.
	Women from all countries are expected
to be present, the countries that have al-
ready organized National Councils and
affiliated with the International Council are
the United States, Great Britain, Germany,
Sweden, Italy, Austria and Belgium; others
are organizing with the intention of affiliat-
ing in June at the meeting in London.
	Holland organized a National Council
March 15, at Utrecht, with delegates from
sixteen woman’s associations, and resolved
to apply for admission to the International
Council at the quinquennial in June. France
has been intending to organize for some
time past, and other countries are plan-
ning to do the same.
	The Council will have congresses in ses-
sion in several different places at the same
time, similar to the World’s Congress in
Chicago. All the places of meeting are
very popular, and Westminister Hall
which is, I believe, the headquarters for the
International Council, has never before
been opened to a woman’s assembly.
	Each National Council affiliated to the
International Council is entitled to two
votes, and at its business sessions the most
important questions concerning the largest
nterests of mankind as a whole and future
policies of the world, will be discussed by
some of the greatest minds of the age.
	Lady Aberdeen is the president and will
preside, and with a corps of officers commit-
tees and sub-committees have the superin-
tendence of this great Council and Congress.
	The social functions will be very elabor-
ate. Garden parties and receptions, re-
ception at Stafford House, garden party at
Pulham palace and lawn party at Gunners-
bury Park by Lady Rothschild are among
those mentioned. Some association of this
kind brings people into closer proximity
and social acquaintance than the formality
of meetings will admit of, and breaks the
continuous strain of mental exertion; for
when one hears so many good speakers and
papers dealing with such profound subjects,
it is a positive relief to have something now
and then in a lighter vein, that sort of equal-
izes the individual condition.
	It is to be hoped that women who can
afford the time and money will attend this
magnificent congress, where so much that
is being done will be known and better ap-
preciated forever after. Such opportunities
should be grasped and their benefits utilized
in the world’s great work of progress.


TO BRANCHES OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	(Republished by request, and permission
of President Lorenzo Snow.)
	Being very frequently receiving letters of
inquiry relative to duties, practices, privi-
leges, etc., of officers and members of the
Relief Society, and being unable to devote
sufficient time to answer individually, we
gladly accept the privilege extended by
Mrs. Wells to respond in general manner
through the columns of the “Exponent.”
	“Should a president of teachers be ap-
pointed in each branch?”
	It is better for small branches not to
appoint a president. In those the teachers
should report in the general meetings, and
keep no separate minutes. In every
branch the president of the organization
virtually presides over the teachers, and
presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumu-
lation of work as to render it necessary
to relieve the presiding board.
	“Should the teachers’ minutes be read at
the general meeting?”
	All members who attend meeting should
be made acquainted with and have a voice
in all business transactions of importance in
both departments. No “change has been
made” in this respect.
	“Is it right for the sisters to raffle?”
	We say emphatically, no! Raffle is
only a modified name of gamble. Presi-
dent Brigham Young once said to me,
“Tell the sisters not to raffle; if the mothers
raffle their children will gamble. Raffling
is gambling.”
	Some say “What shall we do? We
have quilts on hand—we cannot sell them
and we need the means to supply our
treasury, which we can obtain by raffling,
for the benefit of the poor.” Rather let
the quilts rot on the shelves than adopt the
old adage: “The end will sanctify the
means.” As Latter-day Saints we cannot
afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject:—Suppose
an article, quilt of other property, is put up


for raffle; twenty persons donate 25 cents
each; all hope to draw the prize, and only
one wins while nineteen who have each
contributed as much as the successful one,
gain nothing but disappointment, which is 
almost certain to arouse feelings of jealousy
to a greater or less extent.
	Why not donate 25 cents each to re-
plenish the treasury, as well as to run the
chances and only one succeed? And then
by mutual consent donating the article
or articles in question to some charitable
purpose, they prevent the cause of jealousy
and dissension—the same amount will go
to the treasury and no unworthy example
and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	“Should members of the Relief Society
go to the Bishops for counsel?”
	The Relief Society is designed to be a
self-governing organization: to relieve the
Bishops as well as to relieve the poor, to
deal with its members, correct abuses, etc.
If difficulties arise between members of
a branch which they cannot settle between
the members themselves, aided by the
teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their presi-
dent and her counselors. If the branch
board cannot decide satisfactorily, an ap-
peal to the Stake board is next in order;
if that fails to settle the question, the next
step brings it before the General Board,
from which the only resort is to the Priest-
hood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their mul-
titudinous labors.
	“Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart
to officiate in the sacred ordinances of wash-
ing, anointing and laying on of hands in
administering to the sick?”
	Is certainly is not. Any and all sisters 
who honor their holy endowments, not
only have the right, but should feel it a
duty, whenever called upon to administer
to our sisters in these ordinances, which
God has graciously committed to His
daughters as well as to his sons; and we
testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with almighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed 
these sacred ordinances and commited them
to His Saints, it is not only our privilege
but our imperative duty to apply them for
the relief of human suffering. We think 
we may safely say thousands can testify
that God has sanctioned the administration
of these ordinances by our sisters with the
manifestation of His healing influence.
	“What age is most suitable for young
lady officers?”
	The young should fill all official posi-
tions in the Young Ladies’ branch (ward)
Associations. No matter how unequal
they feel to the situation, if they possess
sufficient energy of character and the true
spirit of the Gospel, trust in God, they will
be sure to succeed.
				E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12, 1884.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Saturday, April 8,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding. Presidents
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith
were also present.

[Column 2]
	Meeting opened with singing “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.”
	President Young gave a few words of
welcome, rejoiced to see the dear faces
of the sisters who had come so far to enjoy
the blessing of the conference; testified that
the spirit of God had been with His ser-
vants to reveal His holy will to His 
people, and the society had the utmost
reason to be thankful and appreciate the 
blessings bestowed upon them in these
vales of the mountains.
	Roll called and minutes read and ac-
cepted, after which the secretary also read
the “In Memoriam” of the late President
Sarah M. Kimball, as recorded in the
Society Record.
	Prest. Bathsheba W. Smith bade all
welcome, prayed that we might have a
good time and our voices be so strong that
all in the house could hear, was glad to see
so large a congregation; the society was
for the sick, the needy and unfortunate,
if we lived up to the requirements of 
the organization we would accomplish
a great and good work.
	Prest. Young then asked all sisters in the
audience over forty years of age to stand,
and it was a great majority of all assembled;
she then asked all over eighty to stand and
five sisters arose; she then spoke concerning
Joseph the Prophet and the key of knowl-
edge turned for women. Sister Zina spoke
lovingly of the late Sister Kimball, one
of the honored members of the society, who
had passed away since our last conference,
wished her to be remembered; they had
been girls together in the days of Kirtland,
some of those associated with them in
the Church had lost the faith, even some of
the “Twelve,” she was proud of the faith-
ful sisters, and added, “The Lord will
not withhold His blessings from the faith-
ful, if we ask in faith,, there are many
mothers in Israel before me today, and 
may God help us all to be faithful. Amen.”
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde in a few brief
remarks reported Sanpete Stake, and al-
luded to the faithfulness of the sisters there,
and afterwards spoke in the gift of tongues
which was interpreted by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts next gave a
report of the nurses class which she had
been teaching under the auspices of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, and
which had been a success and so help-
ful among the sick and suffering since they
had graduated in their training and com-
menced practise.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses’ class, then read a written ad-
dress giving much of the work of the
sick room in detail, which quite inter-
ested the audience in the systematic work.
	Prest. M. Isabella Horne thought there
was a larger number of sisters in attendance
than at any previous conference, in speak-
ing of our associating together and trying
to help each other she quoted the old saying
“The rebuke of a friend is better than
the kiss of an enemy.” Thought
we should not settle down and think 
all was well with us, Bishop Hunter had
said he could see a lethargy was coming
over the people, we must not fall asleep, we
must renew our faith and wake up to
the present conditions. Prest. Wilford
Woodruff had said “The sword was un-
sheathed, and the word had gone forth,”

[Column 3]
as foretold in the holy scriptures; obedi-
ence is heaven’s first law and order is
the second, we must abide by these, we
must examine and purify ourselves; let
us as a society store up wheat, the time 
is coming when we shall need it, and
the day spoken of when he who will 
not take up the sword against his neighbor
must needs flee to Zion for safety. Sis-
ter Horne added, she did not want to be
condemned for not keeping her covenants,
“we are all weak and frail, we want
more love and stronger faith in the Gospel.”
	Prest. Jane S. Richards spoke a few
words, alluded to the nursing class, what 
good they would accomplish, approved
of the work they were doing, was glad
to see so many present, while she was
speaking of Sister Riter coming forward
had thought of her father, hoped other
young women would be induced to take
part in the benevolent and charitable work,
it would be a blessing to them if they
would, she felt to have charity for all
who stood in need of assistance, no matter
who they were, they were all our Father's
children, the Savior said do good to those
who despitefully use you; we must have
greater love, love to do for all who are 
needy, sorrowing or unfortunate; it gave
her great joy to be of some service in
the great work.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p m. with
singing Doxology and benediction by Dr.
R. B. Pratt.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by
singing “O, say what is truth.” Prayer
by Prest. Rachel R. Grant. Singing “How
firm a foundation ye Saints of the Lord.”
	The first Stake called was Alberta, Can-
ada, reported by Sister Thomas, who spoke
of their good president, Sister Mary L.
Woolf, and of Sister Zina Y. Card as
a pillar of faith among the Saints there,
and referred to the sick being healed when
the sisters anointed and prayed for them;
they were also doing what they could to
assist in erecting a building in this city for
the General Society, bore a good testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Young exhibited a piece of natural
colored silk made in St. George, and urged
putting out mulberry trees and raising silk
worms, that we may have silk to wear and
to dispose of, she had always tried to pro-
mote the silk industry and knew it would
prove a source of wealth if the people
would take hold of it and be diligent and
persevere.
	Prest. Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, related much in detail of the silk
industry in that locality, they had three
looms put up to weave silk that were doing
well, and wanted to purchase a ribbon
loom, they could make 50 per cent more on
ribbons, they expected now to do scouring
and coloring and not have to send it East
to be done; this industry will give employ-
ment to the young people that they may
earn their own living. We are told to orna-
ment ourselves with the workmanship
of our own hands; we use the Japanese
 reels. The bounty on cocoons has been
a great blessing to old and young. In
reporting the Stake the speaker said, “We
have 18 branches and 614 members 
enrolled, we travel 400 miles to visit and
have no railroad, we go 100 miles to visit
three settlements; the railroad is in pro-
gress of building now; the Lord is opening
our way, Sister McDonald is making artifi-
cial flowers, very beautiful, and we have a 
good shoe factory and other industries.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Mary E. Cluff, one of the “aids”
in St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, spoke for the
Relief Society of that Stake, said she
thought their president and counselors
equal to the work, and the society was
in good condition, everything greatly for-
warded under Prest. Kimball, were going
to build an elevator for grain; they were
all trying to be Latter-day Saints, and
to start home industries.
	Maricopa Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Bergen, an “aid,” she was proud
of the society, they had 6 branches, had
lately been reorganized and felt they should
be able to advance, their’s was a semi-
tropical climate, they had not been able
to keep wheat from weevil until the Indians
taught them how to keep it in mud huts
sealed up. Prest. Hakes had been very
sick and could not come to the conference,
they had a new branch started, the “Pine.”
“The climate is two months in advance
of Utah, grain growing verdure every-
where, it is a good country for silk, we
have mulberry trees planted and intend
to push the silk industry.” Referred to
the nursing class in which she was much
interested, thought all the branches should
have the instruction, it is a labor of love,
had herself some experience in nursing.
	Bannock Stake, Idaho, was represented
by the secretary, Miss Millie Campbell, the
president, Mrs. Mary A. Call, had visited
Salt Lake at the October conference, in one
society in their county the president had
only been absent from the meeting once in
seven years, speaker bore a good testimony,
felt the Stake officers were new to the work
as they were only recently called to preside.
	Box Elder Stake was represented by
Prest. Susanna P. Booth, had been recently
reorganized because of the death of the
beloved president, Sister Olivia Wider-
borg. Sister Booth made an excellent brief
report and expressed a desire to press on-
ward in the good work in which so many
noble women were engaged, and bore a
good testimony.
	Fremont Stake, Idaho, reported by
Elizabeth Atkinson, “aid,” as the president
could not come, the president and aids had
visited all the Stake and encouraged the
sisters to be diligent, had over 1,700 bush-
els of grain stored up, and were striving to
live good and pure lives devoted to good
works.
	Los Angeles branch, California, reported
by Prest. Elizabeth Woollacott, the society
was first organized by Prest. E. H. Nye,
and it had done much to strengthen and
help the sisters. “Our teachers go out and
visit families two by two, we live far apart,
but we are progressing and gathering in
some means, we have had no poor only
exceptional cases, and therefore we have
used our means to purchase books, etc.”
They had a bazar and accumulated some
money with the disposal of articles; good
people have come to a knowledge of the
work, she had herself been a member of
the Church 48 years, bore a faithful testi-
mony.
	San Francisco branch represented by
Sister Harriet Nye, who gave a very good
account of the work in that city, and
she spoke of the society organized in Sacra-
mento and San Diego. The speaker re-
ferred to the Mission house in San Francis-
co as a home and resting place for the
Saints who visit that city and for the
traveling Elders, and spoke enthusiastically
of the joy she felt in her labors in minister-
ing to those who come from time to time;

[Column 2]
she delighted in the work of the Lord and
in this labor of love.
	Prest. Lucy Grant reported Woodruff
Stake, it had only been organized last June,
1898, she had visited some of the branches
and was kindly received, she felt very new
to the work, but was anxious to do her
duty, and had found all the sisters willing
to assist and help the work along.
	Prest. Eliza Oram of Pocatello Stake,
Idaho, stated that the Stake was organized
last August, had visited all the branches
and found there was a good average at-
tendance of members, and there were many
good, faithful sisters, they had given liber-
ally to missionaries, had stored considerable
wheat and owned some granaries, they had
responded in four wards to the ten cent
fund and more would give, some sisters
live ten miles from a post office; she desired
to take advice and counsel from those who
presided, felt all the poor were well taken
care of.
	Wayne Stake, represented by Sister Julia
Blackburn they were encouraging young
women to join the society, they were
planting thousands of mulberry trees and
cuttings, caring for the poor and for the
sick, storing grain, building society halls;
they had many widows among them, their
president was a very humble woman who
visited the sick and all who needed comfort,
gave an excellent report. 
	Apostle F. M. Lyman who was present
in the stand responded to President Young’s
invitation to address the sisters; he said
many excellent things and gave much
valuable counsel, which was greatly appre-
ciated by the sisters who labor in the
society the speaker expressed his pleasure
in meeting with the sisters and said he, felt
it was the first and choicest section of the
Church; he had met with 74 sisters in
Tooele on Relief Society day, March 17,
and felt the day would be held sacred in
the future, thought every married wo-
man should be enrolled in the Relief So-
ciety, there should be no exception, we
should make the society popular, it is a
great thing to be registered, this society
ought to be so popular that not one woman
should be left off, there are many engaged
in this work now, but there is room for
many more, and we want to see
as many as can possibly be enlisted in
this good work and the Lord will bless
them, follow after the Priests and Prophets,
“we love the sisters and we love the Relief
Society, no section of the Church receives
such commendation as does the Relief
Society, I find it so in all my travels.”
Apostle Lyman said he came laden with
the blessing of President Lorenzo Snow
to Sister Zina, and all the sisters, they
have his love and confidence, the speaker
then blest all assembled in the name of
Jesus.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke of
her visit in Chicago, her meeting with
the sisters of the Relief Society, wanted
the sisters to remember them in their pray-
ers, Sister Rosa Smith of Nephi is presi-
dent of the Relief Society in Chicago.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, gave
out some notices of meetings, etc., and
spoke of the Relief Society in Omaha in
Denver, in Pueblo and in St. John’s,
Kansas, she also presented at the request of
the president of Panguitch Stake, the resig-
nation of Sister Barbara Myers, president
of the Relief Society of that Stake, it
was moved and seconded that she be
honorably released and that the assembly

[Column 3]
give her a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful service for many years, the vote was
unanimous. The speaker also alluded
briefly to the recent visit of the sisters
to the National Council of Women in
Washington, especially the Committee
work.
	Prest. Richards felt we had been greatly
blest in the conference, rejoiced in the
reports but realized we never had time
to hear from all, which she regreted, would
like a conference of several days, that
all might have a chance to speak, especially,
the distant ones, Sister Young feels she
is a mother to all the Relief Society. Sister
Richards sustained Brother Lyman in say-
ing all women should join the Relief
Society, young women should join, they
need it, they will learn to be liberal and
charitable in this organization; it need
not interfere with the young ladies meet-
ing in their own association the speaker
approved of boys attending these meetings,
then when they go on missions they can
give instructions. “We do not know what
is before us; I would rather feed my spirit
than my body, feel rested after a good
meeting.” Regreted that we could not
continue the conference two or three days
and get all the young folks to join us;
spoke lovingly to those from a distance.
	Prest. Young blest the sisters and prayed
they might have retentive memories, and
said, “May we be fit temples for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in, carry home the spirit of
the Lord, be punctual in your daily prayers
and you will never grow weary in the
good work, and may you live to the age of
a tree. Amen.”
	Conference adjourned until next Oc-
tober. Singing, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Prest. Sarah J.
Cannon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Julia Marlow is to speak at the meeting
of the Woman’s International Council in
London, on “Women on the Stage.”


A SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.

	The minutes of the 24th ward Relief
Society, March 17, 1899, Margaret Night-
ingale presiding. The entertainment given
by the members of the 24th ward Relief
Society in honor of the first organization
which was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, was a success in every way. Opened
by singing “The spirit of God like a fire
is burning.” Prayer by Brother Allen.
	The following sisters bore their testi-
monies to the truth of the work of God;
Sisters Nightingale, Duncanson, Water-
fall, Attley and Keller. Brother Gill spoke
upon the good work the society was en-
gaged in, that the Lord would bless
one and all in their noble work.
	Delicious refreshments were served by
Sisters Gill and Ames with their numerous
aids. All seemed to enjoy themselves
and a good spirit prevailed. Twenty seven
new names were given in to become mem-
bers of the society. About $8.00 was
taken in, the admission being ten cents
$6.00 went to the General Board to help
defray traveling expenses of delegates to
the National Council and other neces-
sary expenses and obligations pertaining
to Relief Society work. The members
of the society were all there.
	MAGARET NIGHTINGALE, Pres.
	NELLIE A. MORVER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A  FLOURISHING BRANCH.

San Diego, April 10, 1899.
	In this far off, beautiful southern city
of between twenty and twenty six thousand
inhabitants, there is a little band of Saints
organized, numbering probably thirty five
souls, all told.
	Truly they feel to rely upon the gener-
ous promise made by Christ, that “where
a few meet together in His name, there
He will be also,” and thus far the people
have received an abundance of the Holy
Comforter to inspire them with a deter-
mination to serve the Master in defiance of
the alluring snares lain in their pathway by
Satan.
	Such determined effort is most gratifying,
and is another evidence that the injunction
laid upon the missionaries to ‘preach the
Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue
and people,” thereby gathering out from
the nations of the earth the honest in heart,
and all those who comprise the house of
Israel, is being literally fulfilled. That the
honest in heart are being gathered is
evinced by the strenuous efforts made by
those converted to live up to the mandates
of their faith. Such anxious desire to com-
ply with all religious obligations proves the
sincerity of the soul, and it is decreed that
“by their works ye shall know them.”
	Charles Hoag, president of the San
Diego branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, is a man very capable
of the position, being full of faith, humility,
kindness and good principle, and an ex-
ample of diligence in the performance of his
duties.
	The Relief Society is under the able
management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at
whose home the sisters convene twice a
month, for the purpose of testifying of
God’s goodness and blessings, and to lend
themselves physically for the relief and
succor of those in need.
	About ten juveniles comprise the Prim-
ary, controlled by Sister Anna Burhorn.
Every Sunday afternoon their little voices
are raised in song and verse, striving to
excel each other in the performance of their
little duties.
	The M. I. A. is one of the most attrac-
tive features of religious worship, having
the mutual support and assistance of old
and young, which adds greatly to the in-
structiveness and interest so necessary to
success. President William Hunt is very
energetic, and anxious to make the associa-
tion merit the name given it, that of
“Mutual Improvement.”
	Indeed the grand impetus which actuates
the proper living of all true followers of
Christ, that of at last receiving His divine ac-
knowledgement, “Well done,” sheds its
soul-inspiring influence among the few
here, as well as those in all the world, who
live righteously. With such a stimulus to
obviate the contrary influences so prevalent,
it is not presumptuous to say their efforts
will prevail, and their hearts be gladdened
by the glorious plaudit which reaches the
ears of the faithful only, “Thou art of my
kingdom.”
		RHODA CELESTIA NASH.


NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF
SOCIETY.
	Although this Society is philanthropic
and charitable in character, yet during the
last few years the tendency has been in a
larger degree towards practical measures in
caring for the needy and unfortunate, real-
zing it is better and more uplifting to cre-
ate work and give employment (whenever
possible) than to bestow charity. With
this object in view the society fosters in-
dustries suitable to its circumstances and
practicable to localities. The silk industry
is well adapted to many parts of this west-
ern country, and Utah silk especially is of
fine texture and durable quality. In places
remote from manufactories, reeling and
weaving silk from native cocoons has been
made quite remunerative. In newly settled
districts where sheep raising is the princi-
pal source of revenue, carding, spinning
and weaving (as in early pioneer days) is
helpful to the working classes, and is en-
couraged by the society. There are many
women who love housewifery even to the
minutest detail of primitive work, and who
spin, and weave and declare the stockings
made at home (even silk ones) wear much
longer than those manufactured by mach-
nery.
	Since February, 1895, when our last re-
port was made to the Council in Washing-
ton, D. C., considerable material work has
been done; more halls for meetings and
society purposes, houses for the aged and
helpless, also granaries have been built and
dedicated with appropriate ceremonies for
the purpose designed, also large quantities
of grain have been stored for a time of need.
Mulberry trees have been planted on land
owned by the society, and various other
improvements made in the interest and wel-
fare of the organization. Quite recently
the society has established a system of
charitable nursing which is working ad-
mirably. Salt Lake county, which in its
limit contains fifty three branches with
over three thousand members, has taken
the initiative in this matter of trained
nurses by regular physicians, under the
auspices of the Relief Society, with the
understanding that the nurses give a cer-
tain proportion of time and service as com-
pensation for their education, under the
direction of a competent superintendent
who will supervise the entire corps of
educated nurses. Each branch society
will have on hand emergency boxes con-
taining such articles as are essential for use
in the sick room, and will also furnish
medicine and nourishment as required.
Other counties and localities it is expected
will follow this example until throughout
this benevolent society there will be no lack
of trained nurses for the sick who are not
able to pay high prices for professional help.
	This society is so perfectly organized that
it is comparatively easy to carry out any
plan formulated by the General Board,
though each respective branch society has
control of its own local affairs and property;
having its own board of officers under the
supervision of a Stake Board similarly or-
ganized, and to which branches make regular
semi-annual reports and the Stake Board of
officers make annual reports to the General
Board; thus there are divisions and sub-
divisions of the society, which consists at
present of thirty thousand members (30,000)
and more than six hundred branches (600)
scattered through this and other countries,
and on the islands of the sea.

[Column 2]
	The annual report for the year 1898
from January 1, to December 31, gives
14,400 meetings held, 180 conferences, be-
sides fairs for exhibition of various articles,
concerts, entertainments and lectures of a
helpful and instructive character. Women
speakers as missionaries duly authorized to
teach and to preach visit the organizations
in their meetings and conferences from
time to time, and through this means and
the official organ of the society, the Wo-
man’s Exponent, also by correspondence,
the officers at headquarters are kept en rap-
port with the affairs of the entire organiza-
tion. The society has in contemplation,
and is making preparation to build (as soon
as sufficient means is obtained by voluntary
donation) in Salt Lake City a large hall for
society purposes, meetings, conferences,
congresses, lectures, etc., with a bureau of
information and committee rooms.
	The society has been and is a veritable
school of instruction in higher methods of
advancement along the lines of progress,
and always in the foremost rank of social
and moral reform and the betterment of the
human race, never, however, losing sight
of its first main object, the best care of the
sick, the needy, the afflicted and the un-
fortunate; to visit the widow and the father-
less, to administer comfort and consolation
as well as temporal relief to physical wants,
to see that none are left to suffer within its
reach; to encourage habits of industry and
economy; to give a special care to those
who have not had proper training for life
and its experiences, and to care sacredly for
the dying and the dead; to minister in
tenderness to the lonely (however lowly)
when death is near, and to comfort the sor-
rowing and afflicted in times of grief and
mourning; and to perform all these kindly
deeds in a spirit of grace and heavenly
charity, in fact to cultivate a higher stand-
ard of excellence, mentally, morally and
spiritually, also to observe the laws of life
and health so wisely and well, that future
generations born under better conditions
may even live, not only a hundred years,
but to the age of a tree, as has been
prophesied.
					E. B. W.


The rooms now occcupied by the General
Society Daughters of the Revolution as
headquaters in the Presbyterian Building
are fitted with paneled oak and inlaid
floors, and are decorated in buff and blue,
the colors of the society.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Semi-monthly meeting held April 1, 1899,
with President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “O,
say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne said she was pleased
to meet with the sisters again, as she
had not been able to be present for so long.
Thought we needed to live near unto
the Lord, the adversary was trying hard
to creep into the hearts of the people. We
must maintain our integrity to the truth
and be faithful and true. The young peo-
ple were being tried today, there were
many who had not been tried among
us, the children had grown up with such
abundant blessings, they had not been
tried as those who came across the plains
and met those hardships. We should
be careful of the reading matter we give
our children. When the people keep the
commandments of God He always blesses
them abundantly. We should prepare for
the coming of the Son of Man, not be like
the five foolish virgins; we must be united
not be fault finding, cultivate union and


[Column 1]
love among us, seek the Lord and cling
unto Him. We have a great deal to do
let us not be found wanting. Don’t for-
get to pray, we can then have the power of
discernment and will know what our duties
are. “I do wish to raise my voice in
warning to those who are going aside,
but those who need the warning are not
present.” She exhorted all who were
present to use their influence to help others.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “I feel as if
I were looking upon the Lord’s jewels.
There is a strength in the Saints coming
together, for we need spiritual food; the
way to store up spiritual food is to come to-
gether, in that way we become strong
in integrity and build a firm foundation. I
rejoice to see the sisters, I can bear testi-
mony of the work of God. It has now
been 63 years since I embraced the Gospel
and I have always thanked the Lord for
it.” Prayed God to bless all.
	Sister Armeda Young said she knew
we each could influence those around us for
good or evil; she knew by persevering that
we gained strength; she hoped she would
never be turned from the truth and desired
to live to do all the duties the Lord re-
quired of her.
	Sister Irvine said she did not think she
could tell any one what a blessing these
meetings had been to her, they always
built her up and gave her strength to
do her duties. Spoke of the visit of our
sisters to the National Council and how
they were blessed of the Lord, said it
was only another proof to her that the
Lord will help us to fight our battles.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the goodness
of the Lord in permiting her to be one
of this people and of the lesson she had
learned by passing through trials, of
the necessity of our speaking in praise of
one another and in this way building
each other up. Felt full of the spirit of the
Lord, hoped the Lord would help us to
hold on to the rod of iron.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she needed a
blessing and desired to receive one here.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger had learned
to love the sisters present, all seemed fami-
liar as she had been here so often. Felt
we must draw nearer together, we must not
find fault with each other. The Lord had
blessed her abundantly and had given her
a great testimony.
	Sister Paul knew that holy angels were
here, the Lord blessed her by day and
by night, she tried to influence for good in
building up the Church, was the only one
of her father’s household that was in the
Church, but she had been permitted to
work in the Temple. The Lord had given
her the gift of tongues, she had had
promises through this gift that had been
fulfilled.
	Sister Emily Stevenson knew that the
Lord would hear and answer prayers,
spoke of the healing of herself through
the prayer of her son.
	Sister Shoenfeltd thanked her Heavenly
Father that she was privileged to be a
member of this Church, spoke of the
promises of Brigham Young to the Saints
and how they were fulfilled in her behalf.
	Sister Nightingale said words could not
express the joy she felt in thus mingling
with her sisters. Sister Maxwell spoke
of the blessings of prayer and the power
little children have with God. Sister
Fisher spoke in tongues, the interpretation
was given and was very comforting.
	President Horne said there would be

[Column 2]
a conference before we met again, hoped
we would be obedient to those placed over
us. Sister Bond and Sister Wyler both
bore testimony, speaking of the gift of
tongues.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction by Julia S. Woolley.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
U. W. P. C. was held in the “Exponent”
office, Friday evening, March 31, 1899.
Prayer by Mrs. Doolan, after which the
secretary called the roll, responses being
given by quotations from Cowper. By re-
quest of Mrs. Ruth M. Fox, she was per-
mitted to read her interesting paper on Cur-
rent Events previous to the business. The
subject of having one special evening for
the subject “Cliff Dwellers” was discussed,
but it was decided to have Mrs. Lawler
read Mrs. Rhodes’ (who was out of the
city) paper that evening. It proved of
great interest to all present, discussion fol-
lowed. The secretary then read a com-
munication from the free traveling library
committee acknowledging the receipt of one
dollar from the Press Club; one from Mrs.
Lulu Lee Stiehl suggesting the appoint-
ment of a delegate to the Mothers’ Assem-
bly. Mrs. L. D. Alder was elected a dele-
gate. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine was re-
appointed a delegate to the Council of
Woman’s Clubs. The regular program
was postponed for an evening with the
“Cliff Dwellers,” the time and place to be
determined later. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


ACADEMY EXERCISES.

WEBER STAKE.
	It may be interesting to those readers of
the “Exponent” who are laboring for
the uplifting of woman and the betterment
of the race, to learn something of the labors
of Sister Hannah Sorensen during the past
winter.
	She is an earnest worker among her
students and as usual much good has been
derived from her teachings. Although her
classes have not been large they have been
appreciated, and the seeds of purity she has
sowu in the hearts of the people of the
Weber Stake Academy, where she has been
engaged as special instructor to the young
ladies, as well, as those sisters from the
surrounding settlements who have attended
her lectures, will in future years redound to
her honor.
	The following is the program of the
closing exercises held in the hall of the
Weber Stake Academy, Friday evening,
March 31, 1896, by the combined classes of
Sister Sorensen: Introductory remarks,
Miss Cora Wilson “Woman’s Social Con-
dition of Today,” Miss Emily Tanner;
“Preparation for Marriage,” Miss Sarah
Dye; “Duties and Obligations of Wives to
Husbands,” Miss Ida Ferrin; “Training of
Children,” Miss Susie Beecroft; “Hygenic
Cooking,” Miss Eillie Smuin; “Dress,”
Miss Marguerite Thomas.
	All of the above were in the form of well
prepared papers, and exhibited great care
and a thorough knowledge of the subjects.
	A beautiful poem, “Build Well,” was re-
cited by Miss Lottie Heninger, and an


original poem addressed, to Sister Sorensen
and written by Miss Nellie Beecroft was
read by Miss Lovina Griffin.
	Remarks on the work done by Sister
Sorensen were made by Miss Milla Stevens,
Miss Sarah Larkin and Mrs. O. M. Drumi-
lor.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards commented
on the papers which had been read, and
expressed his approval of the work. Stated
that the truth imparted had been of the
grandest and purest character.
	Senator F. J. Cannon and Prof. Richard
T. Hoag both paid a high tribute to the
teacher, the students and the work. Prof.
Hoag also read a beautiful poem of his own
composition which we hope will ere long
appear in the “Exponent.”
			NELLIE BEECROFT.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit, it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest'savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the.bank
	we have, opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit marpied
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. l-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St..
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver..............................................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butto and San
	Francisco.................................................................8:53a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver...3:03 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco..............7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and Intermediate
	points.......................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points.................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus...........................................6:00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis.............................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and Intermediate points.........8:00 a.m.
For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points....................7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco.6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco....................9:45 a.m.
For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco.........................5:30 p.m.
For Tooele and Terminus................................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Dally except Sunday., 
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.

S. W. ECCLES,					D E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager. 				Gen. P. and T. Agent
				W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

