VOL. 27.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1899. No. 24.


CONTENTS:
   Universal Peace Meeting—May Wright Sewall.
Daughters of the Revolution—Mabelle Snow.
Anniversary Syracuse—Maria Cook. Fillmore
Celebration—I. E. Robison. Items of Interest—
R. M. F. Resolutions. Trip to the South. An
Appeal. The National Council of Women. Anni-
versary at Haden, Idaho—M. G Smith. Reaper’s
Club—J. A. Druce. Incorporation. President
Young’s Birthday at Saltair—L. L. G. R. Appeal
From Clara Barton. Call for Peace Meeting.
   	EDITORIAL:—A Hopeful Outlook. The Peace
Conference. Dr. Talmage’s New Book. A Social
Afternoon
	POETRY:—The Day of Peace—Lydia D. Alder.
America—Lucy A. Clark.


THE DAY OF PEACE.

Hail gentle dawn, refulgent day of peace,
When cannon’s roar and demon war shall cease;
And all the lands afar, from o’er the sea,
Clasp sister hands, in sweet tranquility.
Where coldness reigns, may warm love softly
	breathe,
And friendship’s band more closely weave,
Peace reigns, angels in shining robes of white,
All sanctified behold the longed for sight;
Broad rivers sing through the restful vales,
Repea[-]ing o’er such happy peaceful tales.
No more to hear the suff’ring wounded cry,
Nor see the loved one, moaning sink and die;
Nor pity hide her tearful, heavy eyes,
Away from heaven’s blue and sunny skies,
And Earth, dear Mother Earth, to drink no more
Her children’s blood, nor wrap them in their
	gore;
No more to tremble, nor groan aloud for them,
But brothe[-]s greet 'mong all the sons of men.
II.
Peace, peace, let deadly, cruel war be o’er,
Nor armies stand, a menace as before;
With joy we hail thee, Millenial day;
Thrice welcome, too, we’ll own thy gentle sway;
Foul Hate banished from the earth shall be;
Hail love, sweet love, and priceless charity.
And thus a happier, holier time shall come,
To bless the wide world o’er from sun to sun;
The lowly Nazarene triumphant then,
'Peace, peace on earth, good will and love to
	men,"
The passing ages still those words, repeat;
Repentant world, bow humbly at His feet.
"Peace; peace, My peace I ever leave with you,
Do right to ev’ry other and be true;
Take My yoke upon you, My burden’s light,
Love links all the world with a chain so bright.
From o’er the sea shall nations cry in vain?—
To God, ascends the cry of myriads slain.
III.
O, give us peace, let benedictions come,
To soothe the heart of ev’ry mourning one;
The breezes catch the anthem, whispering
	peace;
The birds will chant, their melodies increase,
Flowers will raise their dainty heads on high,
In joy for ne’er again will soldiers die.
America’s true daughters, speak today,
Implore this dawn of peace, turn war away;
To our Father’s God humbly bend the knee,
Cleanse our earth from blood, from war let us
	be free.
LYDIA D. ALDER.


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson spoke be-
fore the Political Equality Club of Cam-
bridge on Wednesday, April 26, and for
the Walt Whitman Fellowship of Boston
on April 27. She sailed for Europe May
4 by the First Bismarck of the Hamburg
line.


UNIVERSAL PEACE MEETINGS.

	An International Committee of Women
has been formed, whose first task is the or-
ganization of peace meetings to be held in
all parts of the world on the eve preceding
the assembly at the Hague of the Czar's
Conference. Frau Professor Solenka, of
Munich, an ardent advocate of international
arbitration on the Continent, is one of the
most active promoters of the International
Committee. Frau Solenka is finding in the 
International Council and in the National
Councils affiliated therewith, instruments
already formed which may be utilized for
peace propagandism. The present plan is
through officers of the International Coun-
cil, presidents of National Councils, Local
Councils, and of other organizations of wo-
men, to arouse women to take the initiative
in arranging a programme, and organizing
peace meetings to be held in their respec-
tive communities on May 15.
	Only a general outline of the programme
can be suggested for the proposed meeting.
This outline must be subject to modifica-
tions dictated by local conditions.
	First: It is suggested that the appeal and
invitation of the Czar shall be read, and ex-
pounded with fairness to the generous
motives that must be ascribed to him.
	Second: Let an historical statement be
prepared showing the attempts that have
been made to reduce warfare and to re-
place militarism by civil adjudication.
	Third: Let brief speeches be made, each
upon a single aspect of war; for example,
the economic questions involved in it, the
moral and social effects of war, etc.
	To my own mind nothing could be more
profitable or more inspiring than a half
dozen three minute addresses on patriotism,
which shall discuss the subject from differ-
ent points of view. Whatever one’s atti-
tude towards expansion, whatever one’s
own opinions upon the questions involved
in the war with Spain and in the present
campaign in the Philippines, there can be
no doubt that the mind of the average
American citizen would be shocked by the
advocacy of the principles underlying
militarism. There was probably never a
period in human history when so large a
proportion of civilized mankind believed in
the influence of thought and sympathy.
Successful experiments with wireless tele-
graphy win from the public mind a friendly
attitude towards efforts to uphold and
strengthen the Conference of The Hague,
by meetings held simultaneously through-
out the world in behalf of the purpose, to-
wards the accomplishment of which the
Czar’s Conference may be considered the
first practical step.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

UTAH DELEGATION TO THE LATE CONVEN-
TION.
	The delegation from Utah to the con-
vention of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held at Philadelphia, was as follows: Miss
Julia Farnsworth, proxy for the regent;
Miss Emily Cannon, now in Boston, proxy
for the vice regent, and Miss Mabelle Show,
delegate lor the society. Miss Emma
Hatch of Heber City accompanied the dele-
gation.
	The party left Salt Lake City on the
evening of April 15th, on the R. G. W.
railroad. The journey was exceedingly
pleasant, the young ladies receiving much
attention and many favors from the rail-
road officials. The delegation reached
Washington on Wednesday, April 19th,
where three days were spent in sight see-
ing. The places of interest visited were
the Capitol building, Library Of Congress,
Smithsonian Gardens, National Museum,
Agricultural building, Medical Institute,
Corcoran art gallery, Washington monu-
ment, treasury, state war and navy depart-
ments, the White House, Mt. Vernon,
Arlington and Alexandria.
	We left for Philadelphia on Saturday
evening. On arriving there we were soon
comfortably located at the Stratford hotel,
the D. R. headquarters. A few moments
after having been shown our rooms we
were made happy by a call and most
cordial greeting from Mrs. Louisa D. Galli-
son, secretary general, who had noted our
arrival on the hotel register. She escorted
us to the parlor to present us to the presi-
dent general, Mrs. Henry Sanger Snow,
and associate officers, who received us with
warm expressions of welcome, establishing
most friendly relations from the start.
On Sunday afternoon services were held
at the old Swedish Church, where the Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution and
Colonial Dames attended in a body. The
evening was quietly passed in the parlors of
the hotel in conversation with new friends.
	The first regular session convened on
Monday at 10 a. m. Each State represented
had been appointed a section and banner,
the delegates taking their respective places
as they entered. Having been arranged
alphabetically, the Utah section and banner
were quite, in the rear. In passing down
the hall to take our places we were inter-
cepted by one of the officers, who lifting
the banner “Utah” high above her head,
proceeded along the aisle, beckoning us to
follow, and the Utah delegates moved for-
ward, amid tremendous applause, to a place
in the front ranks. A special clapping of
hands greeted the response from Utah at
roll call, upon showing the full delegation
present.
	The chief feature of the morning session
was the address of the president, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow. She is a lady of unusual
pleasing presence, being graceful and
affable in manner and withal a most effici-
ent and charming president general.
	The afternoon was principally devoted to
society reports, of which twenty two were


[Column 1]
presented. Utah’s report and greeting
from the regent, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
was creditably presented by Miss Julia
Farnsworth, and was received with a dem-
onstration of approval. When it subsided
the first vice president general, Miss Ada-
line Whelock Sterling—who is recognized
as the wittiest woman among the society
leaders and is exceedingly popular—arose
and expressed herself in well chosen words
of praise and good wishes for the future of
our society, concluding with the wish “that
the little roots planted in the beautiful
western soil, would shoot up into magnifi-
cent trees.”
	The secretary general then presented
several resolutions, the most important of
which was one from the society Daughters
of the American Revolution, asking for
a union of the two societies. This request
was emphatically objected to by the
Daughters of the Revolution and conse-
quently rejected. Other society business
completed the closing session of the con-
vention.
	The Pennsylvania Society, D. R., had
planned an interesting program for our en-
tertainment during our stay in their chief
city. It was as follows: Promptly at 9:30
Tuesday morning a merry party left the
Hotel Stratford and proceeded to the city
hall, where we were tendered an impromp-
tu reception by Mayor Ashbridge, who in a
most courteous manner welcomed the
Daughters to the city in a pleasant little
speech, in which he referred to Philadelph-
ia’s wealth of historic interest, making a
fitting meeting place for a gathering of
patriotic women.
	From the City Hall we went to Carpen-
ter’s Hall, where we all were enthusiastic
over the historic relics displayed. Indepen-
dence Hall also received our attention, after
which we went to the grave of Benjamin
Franklin, which was decorated elaborately
with flowers and a flag. We next visited
St. Peter’s church and Christ church, where
we sat in the pew once occupied by Wash-
ington, Franklin and other great men.
From there we proceeded to the Betsy Ross
house where we all had our pictures taken
in a group.
	The party then returned to the hotel
Stratford and prepared for the chief event
of the day, an elaborate luncheon given
us by the Pennsylvania D. R. On enter-
ing the lunch room exclamations of sur-
prise and delight were heard on all sides;
it presented indeed a most attractive scene.
The walls were draped with bunting and
silk, in the colors of the society. At one
end of the room a magnificent silk national
flag almost covered the wall. At the other
a large blue shield bearing the words,
“Daughters of the Revolution,” in gold
letters, was the center piece, surrounded by
elaborate drapery. The color scheme was
also carried out in the table decorations,
yellow flowers in blue bowls being on each
table, together with yellow shaded candles
and quantities of blue and yellow satin rib-
bon. Even in the menu the patriotic ob-
ject of the society was kept in mind, for
“Liberty Punch” was served in little Liber-
ty Bells of blue and yellow. Following
the luncheon came a series of toasts. The
first was “An Optimist’s View of Our
Country’s Future,” by our President Gen-
eral, Mrs. Snow, who briefly outlined the
history of our country, its advance and
gain in territory and culture. Under the
toast of “The Winter at Valley Forge,”
Mrs. H. E. Bowschur described touchingly

[Column 2]
the sufferings of our soldiers, and the humi-
liation endured by Washington, when even
his friends and Congress seemed disposed
to criticise and blame him. A most inter-
esting address was delivered by Mrs.
Andrew Bray of New Jersey, upon “The
Responsibility of Ancestors.” Mrs. C. H.
West spoke upon “Our Society and what it
stands for.” The closing toast, “After
All,” was responded to by Mrs. Adaline
Sterling. In her response she summed up
the progress women were making in every
field, calling particular attention to the fact
that in this generation there are no old
maids. There are bachelor girls, plenty of
them, and unmarried women on all sides,
but the forlorn old maid as a relic of a by-
gone age, is quite out of keeping with our
present, progressive march.”
	During the remainder of my stay in
Philadelphia the time continued to be oc-
cupied in sight seeing, and throughout we
were most royally entertained, the Utah
delegates being the constant recipients of
the most marked attention. Our reception
and treatment left nothing to be desired.
	On the morning of Saturday, April 29th,
I left the other members of the party and
started for home, they intending to remain
in the east a few weeks longer. The
homeward trip was rendered exceedingly
interesting by my meeting with many per-
sons eager to hear something about Utah,
with special reference to the “Mormons.”
This gave frequent opportunity to explain
to such the religious faith of the Saints. I
greatly enjoyed this excursion and those
with whom I conversed appeared to be
favorably impressed with what they heard.
				MABELLE SNOW.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


ANNIVERSARY SYRACUSE.

	Our worthy president felt desirous that
our proceedings on anniversary day be
briefly reported.
	A meeting was held in the ward meeting
house commencing at 2 p. m., President
Mary Ann Walker presiding. The choir
led in singing the hymns. After invoca-
tion by Bishop Cook President M. A.
Walker read the minutes of the organiza-
tion of the first Relief Society meeting.
	During the meeting Sister Mary I. Kerr
(having been present at the meeting when
the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society) made some interesting remarks
upon the same subject.
	The program consisted of appropriate
songs, readings and recitations by mem-
bers of the society and some of the young-
er people. There were also instructive and
encouraging addresses by Bishop Cook and
each of his counselors. The program was
well rendered, and all present felt as ex-
pressed by Brother Jas. G. Wood in the
opening of his well delivered speech, “It is
good to be here.” In the evening a pleas-
ant party was given in the meeting house.
	The ten cent fund has been responded to
by three fourths of the members enrolled.
			MARIA COOK, Sec.


FILLMORE CELEBRATION.

	Minutes of Relief Society anniversary
meeting held in Fillmore ward meeting
house, March 17th, 1899, at 10 a. m.,
President Helen M. Callister presiding.
	The singing was conducted by Prof Wm.
Beeston. Singing “Hail to the Prophet,”
by the ward choir. Prayer by Patriarch


John Ashman. Singing, “Joseph Smith’s
First Prayer,” by ward choir.
	President Ira N. Hinckley then addressed
the society. Said he was pleased to be
here, had listened to many valuable in-
structions from the mothers in Israel, that
this was a fine institution to minister to the
poor and needy, the sick and afflicted, that
great responsibilities rested upon these sis-
ters, that the sisters by the bedside of the
sick often get tired, but they never give up.
	The secretary then read the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society.
Mrs. Mary Henry rendered an instrumental
selection entitled “World’s Fair March.”
	Patriarch John Ashman addressed the
society. Among other things he suggested
that we get clothing that is not entirely
worn out and make them over into com-
fortable clothing for the little ones.
	The choir sang “Come let us rejoice in
the day of salvation.” Sister Seraph Jack-
son read a selection entitled “Evening
Thoughts.” Sister Mary Payne and
daughters sang a sacred song entitled “I
will love the Lord with all my heart.”
President Helen M. Callister then read an
original sketch on Pioneer Life. Brother
Tod Ashman sang “Break the News Gent-
ly to Mother.” Counselor Eliza Wicker
read an article about our sisters just re-
turned from the Woman’s Council in
Washington, also made an address. Sister
Lizzie Paine favored us with an instru-
mental selection, “Nearer my God to Thee.”
	Picnic was then passed and a short inter-
val spent in conversation. The choir sang,
‘O, Trust in the Goodness of God.” The
secretary, Isabel E. Robison, then read a 
manuscript paper containing instructions of
President Joseph Smith to the Relief So-
ciety, statistics and history of organization
in Utah, its growth, labors, etc., also local
organization. Song by Sisters Lizzie Ash-
man and Annie Carling entitled “Gentle
Annie.” Sister Angeline Hinckley ad-
dressed the assembly, urging all who were
not members to join the society. Address
by Brother Ova Peterson. Said that we
should hold all characters sacred, etc.
Maggie Starley recited an excellent poem
entitled “Count Me.” Sister Delilah K.
Olsen read an original poem, and Sister
Phebe Henry sang “A Sailor’s Grave.”
Sister Marietta Webb gave a brief sketch of
the life of her grandmother, Sarah M.
Cleveland. Mr. Tod Ashman sang. Presi-
dent H. M. Callister invited all the sisters
who were not members to join our society.
Brother John Jackson and Brother Cooper
sang a song. Brother Farth made a closing
address, the choir and congregation sang
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning,”
and benediction was pronounced by Brother
John Cooper.
				I. E. ROBISON, Sec.


Mrs. Frances H. Howard, of the New
England W. P. A., read a characteristically
trenchant paper on “Our Critics,” at the
last literary meeting of the association.
The paper will be printed entire in the
Club Woman.

	Lady Tennyson, the wife of the new
viceroy of South Australia, is an Irish wo-
man. Her name when she married the
laureate’s son, the Hon. Hallam Tennyson,
in 1884, was Audrey Florence Boyle, of the
famous fighting family of Cork. She is the
mother of three sons two of whom remain in
England.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In Iceland men and women are in every
respect political equals. The nation, which
numbers about 70,000 people, is governed
by representatives elected by men and wo-
men together.
	May Wright Sewall, honorary president
of the National Council of Women of the
United States, and vice president of the In-
ternational Council of Women, has ad-
dressed a letter to the Czar of Russia in the 
name of 1,250,000 women of the United
States in the membership of the Council,
praising him for his peace project.


Calumny would soon starve and die of it-
self if nobody took it in and gave it a lodg-
ing.


[Column 1]
ITEMS OF INTEREST.

	The remains of the late Lord Herschell,
ex-Lord Chancellor, who was sent to
Washington to take a leading part in
negotiations designed to settle differences
between the United States and Canada,
were sent to England by the ship Brooklyn.
This was considered a very graceful act,
and a decided compliment to Great Britain.
About the same time the Spanish Cabinet
resigned, and the queen signed the Peace
treaty independent of the Cortez.
	Our brave and gallant naval commander,
Governor General and statesman all in one,
George Dewey, has been made Admiral for
life, the office going out of existence at his
death.
	Queen Victoria’s visit to France, which
was said to be so repugnant to the people
of that Republic, seems to be progressing
nicely. It is said she is winning their 
hearts by her kind deeds and womanly
tenderness. On one occasion she had her
cortez stopped to allow the French train of
one of the peasantry to pass. Another time
a small boy was found crying. The queen
immediately stopped her carriage, assuaged
his grief by giving him a few coppers, and
left him smiling and happy. Her retinue
consisted of sixty persons, her chaise and
her own bed, which she takes with her
wherever she goes; her pet dogs, cats and
birds were sent ahead of her.
	Science records several steps in advance.
Speech can now be photographed. In
medical circles a new cure for pneumonia
has been found. The red marrow is taken
from a dead man’s body and used as a
Serum. But what I consider a most cruel
experiment was tried by Dr. Tuffier in
Paris before a number of his pupils. He
was called to the hospital immediately after
the death of a young and, I presume, poor
artist, and after trying all the means known
to science to make sure the subject was real-
ly dead he proceeded with the aid of his
pupils to lay bare the heart, and then
with his thumb and finger manipulated the
organ, forcing the blood through the lungs
and body and thus restored his life. The
dead man with a convulsive movement be-
gan to breathe, his eyes opened and the
light of intelligence spread over his features.
	He was asked his name and in a voice
that sounded a long way off, or even as
though it came from the tomb, he answered
correctly. The doctor then being worn out
ceased his operations, and the poor man
was allowed a second time to die. It
seems this eminent physician had experi-
mented some fifty times before on animals,
and believes that when death is caused by
a sudden shock, all other things being
favorable, that life may be restored per-
manently.
	A very sad affair has been the illness of
Rudyard Kipling, that great writer of prose
and poetry who has done so much to unite
England and America. At a time when he
seemed hovering between life and death his
little six year old daughter was called from
earth, which was kept from him for a time.
What a trial it must have been for his wife.
It is said the author has had no less than
one hundred poems written to him since
his illness. It is presumed he has not read
them, as he is rapidly improving.
	We have had several disastrous fires in
the past month, one in the Windsor hotel,
N. Y., in which 15 persons met death and
many were injured, cause, the careless throw-
ing away of a match after lighting a cigarette.

[Column 2]
Another in Omaha when twenty women
leaped for life. Two were dashed to pieces
and many others seriously hurt. And still
another in Chicago, and others which I have
not mentioned. We have also had an
epidemic of crime for which the newspapers
are largely responsible by publishing every
harrowing detail, thus putting things into
the heads of the wicked which would other-
wise, perhaps, not be thought of. 
	The queen of Norway and Sweden has
placed a contribution box upon her table,
in which visitors may place sums of money
to aid the Salvation Army.
	The love letters of that great and virtu-
ous (?) king, Henry VIII to Anne Bolyn,
have been found in the library of the Vati-
can. They are said to be very gushing
and boyish, and quite characteristic of the
old fellow.
	It is supposed that ten freight steamers, 
nine British and one American, with three
hundred lives, have been lost in the terrific
storms of March. In China hundreds of
villages have been submerged by Yellow
river floods, millions of lives lost and famine
exists insomuch that they are obliged to
call for aid.
	England and France have come to a
settlement in regard to the division of Africa,
and it is surmised that America will pro-
pose arbitration at the Peace Conference.
	Trusts too are flourishing. We are to
have a woolen goods Trust and a gigantic
whiskey Trust, with a capital of $128,150,
000.
	The Red Cross Society is to be reorgan-
ized with a president and president of board
of doctors and a chief staff, who will be
general manager. It will probably have a
building in the near future for its own ex-
clusive use in Washington. Clara Barton
will, of course, be the president.
	We are to have a Salt Palace and a
Federal Building in Salt Lake City.
	Possibly the ladies have heard that the
Legislature after sitting the usual time
with the last day lengthened out to 168
hours, failed to elect a Senator. But let us
draw the mantle of charity around our own
State and talk of things which, perhaps, are
more important. The war and the gallant
soldiers who are wearing out their lives, if
possibly they escape the shells of the enemy,
beneath a burning sun, chasing down the
Rebels who are held together for a time by
the selfish ambition of one man, who, by
the way, is said to have gained the love of
his people by his justice, kindness and
moderation. In the first battle of the 25th
one hundred and twenty-five Americans. 
were wounded and fifteen killed, three of
whom were Utah boys. Eleven hundred
and ten soldiers have been brought from
Cuba and Porto Rico to be buried in native
land. The Cuban assembly closes and
Gomez is to be recognized as a Cuban leader.
							R. M. F.


AMERICA.

America! Columbia's Land,
	When first thy shores were found
By noble men inspired, their joy
	Was great, it knew no bound,
They knelt in pure devotion, 	
	When they beheld the sight,
 They blessed the land and praised God’s name
	For guiding them aright.

Hi[-]her the weary Pilgrims flocked,
	Unto this happy clime,
And made the Laws so broad and deep, 
	That the oppressed could come.
The hills and vales resound with praise,
	To thee oh! Washington, 
Who crushed the Monarch’s power,
	And reared for longing hearts a home.

Religious freedom on thy soil,
	 Was born ’mid struggling bands,
And Liberty to li[-]ht the world,
	In New York harbor stands.
Shine on thou incandescent light,
	Nor let thy rays grow dim,
Bring joy to earth’s inhabitants,
	With thy Effulgent gleam.

May empires fall before thy power,
	And crumble,into dust,
May justi[-]e burn her sweet incense,
	To all who in thee trust.
The God of Nations rules on high, 
	 He hears their sighs, their fetters break,
And with His great all seeing eye,
	He’ll pierce the tyrants yoke. 

America! Proud native land;
	When will thy Wars be o’er,
When wi[--] thy cruel conflicts end, 
	When will strife be no more?
When freedom reigns from pole to pole,
	Then! Then ! a reign of peace
Will usher in that happy day,
	From bondage bring release.

America, thy name I love,
	Home of the brave and free,
Free did I say ? while in thy courts;
	Fair daughters plead to thee?
Uproot tradition from thy soil,
	Spring up grand fountain pure and free,
For this thy weeping maidens toil, 
	And supplicate to thee,

America, thou favored land,-
	You’ve freed the slaves at home,
They now may reach the summit, 
	Of Ambition’s powerful throne,
’Twas right, ’twas just, but still a cloud,
	O’er thy fair Goddess floats,
Clear it away, let freedom’s bells,
	Chime forth their sweetest notes.

May western hills where towering peaks,
	In majesty arise,
True justice points her golden spires,
	Undaunted to the skies,
The mists have flown and freedom’s sun,
	In splendor shines on all,
O’er city, village, forest, glade, 
	And Legislative hall.
 
America! Pride of the world,
	The Nations bow to thee,
They see thy strength,they know thy power,
	’Tis felt from sea to sea.
Stretch forth thine arm, protect and shield,
	Yea succor the oppressed, 
Till all who ’neath thy starry folds
	Seek shelter, may find rest. 
LUCY A. CLARK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 

	Address all business communications to

		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
	A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	This issue of the paper closes the twenty-
seventh volume of the Woman’s Exponent,
established June 1, 1872. One can hardly
realize how few women’s papers there were
at that time, the New North West pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was the first
west of the Mississippi river, and only
very few had made their advent in the
Eastern cities. The Golden Dawn in San
Francisco appeared about the same time as
the “Exponent,” but both the New North
West and the Golden Dawn were discon-
tinued long since.
	At the present time there are many wo-
men’s papers and magazines in the United
States so it has ceased to be a novelty, and
they are now an important part of the news-
paper world.
	Here in Utah we have two, one a semi-
monthly, the other a monthly magazine.
The Review which was voted as the organ
of Utah clubs flourished for a while and
was very popular, but has been discon-
tinued.
	We will not weary our readers with de-
tails of newspaper work, its pleasures and
discouragements, but only remind them
that a new volume will commence with
June 1st, and that the paper will appear
in an entirely new dress, and it is ardently
hoped that the women of Utah will feel it
needs their support financially and in other
ways; by creating public sentiment in
favor of sustaining it among women, es-
pecially those connected with the Relief
Society of which the “Exponent” really is
the official organ.
	Presidents of the Relief Society every-
where should make an extra exertion to
make the paper popular, and authorized
agents try to increase their list of paid up
subscribers.
	The editor has been urged to furnish a
complete file of the “Exponent,” the
twenty-seven volumes bound in blue moroc-
ca with gilt lettering, for the World’s Ex-
position in Paris, and considering the in-
terest in the two books sent to Amsterdam
last year, (containing four volumes) it
would seem of sufficient consequence to ex-
hibit the literary work of Western women
in the early days of Utah, when it was
thought everything was too crude for more
than ordinary domestic occupations. Even
now one can read now and then of the ter-
rible ignorance that prevailed here until
recent years.
	Those of us who have been in Utah

[Column 2]
from the beginning know of the societies
literary as well as charitable organized at a
very early period, and the poems and essays
were as high-toned and as creditable in
style as those that are current nowadays.
	The people who settled these valleys
were not ignorant, and did not need mis-
sionaries sent here to be supported by
Christian churches in the East; they were
themselves Christians and not heathens,
and capable of teaching not only schools,
but the Scriptures as taught by the Savior
and His disciples. If the women of Utah
do not wish to be misrepresented in these
respects they should represent themselves
through their own publications. Main-
tain their own periodicals and circulate
them outside among the people of the
world, and especially among the branches
of the Church and of the Relief Society in
places remote from Zion where they are
anxious to know how to conduct and carry
on their own organizations in harmony
with the order maintained throughout the
entire society.
	It is not unlikely that this coming sea-
son will be a prosperous one and at any
rate it is the duty of all the Latter-day
Saints to prophesy good for Zion, and to
strive to have the prophecies fulfilled.
When Zion prospers all is well, and as the
women are a large part of Zion it is only
natural to suppose their affairs will prosper,
and if they are diligent and persevering
the legitimate labors in which they engage
will succeed, and let us believe the “Ex-
ponent” will double its subscription dur-
ing the new year about to begin.


[Column 1]
	THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	Notwithstanding the Czar of Russia’s
call for a conference of all nations at The
Hague to consider peace measures was
ridiculed in the first instance, there seems
to be a widely awakened sentiment now in
favor of it and great men and statesmen
are expressing their views upon the subject
more and more favorably.
	The man who is to preside at this Peace
Conference is the Russian ambassador at
London. He is spoken of as a veteran
statesman and diplomat, his countenance
is calm and gracious; judging from pictures
in magazines one could easily imagine him
suitable to take charge of a gathering of
the nations representatives. Professor
Martaens who is also to participate is said
to be “the greatest living authority on in-
ternational law.”
	The British delegation at this Conference
is to be headed by Sir Julian Paunceforte,
who for years filled the position of ambas-
sador from Great Britain to this country.
M. Leon Burgeois, formerly prime minis-
ter of France, will head the French delega-
tion, he is reported to be “one of the most
eminent and scholarly men of contempor-
ary French statesmen.”
	Count Menster has been named as the
principal delegate from Germany. Profes-
sor Stenzel is another of the German dele-
gation, he has been severely criticised in
Russia and other countries for having de-
fended militarism.
	There can be no doubt of the great
eminence and strength of the men who
will compose the Conference, and whether
any pacific measures or methods are decided
upon or not the world will have been some-
what more enlightened upon warfare and
its evil tendencies, and will see the actual

[Column 2]
practical facts as they exist in other lands
of which, perchance, comparatively little is
known in the United States.
	The Peace Conference will be something
to remember in the future years as having
occurred at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury, which has been marked by the
greatest progress of enlightenment along
many if not all lines of creative, scientific,
and inventive genius.
	The whole world of mankind, as it were,
will be looking on and watching the action
of this great international committee, which
really must produce an effect upon the
opinions and sentiments of the most truly
sensitive and most magnanimous minds of
the age.
	The International Peace Union estab-
lished some years ago has been steadily
growing among the people here and in
other lands. Conferences have been held
in Berne in Budapest and in Belgium, per-
haps in other places. Several ladies from
the United States have been appointed
delegates to these Conferences, and much
good literature has been sent out by the
Union, which has been steadily growing in
numerical strength and in popular senti-
ment. In Philadelphia there is quite a
flourishing society, Rev. Amanda Deyo is
president. She represented the society at
the National Council in Washington last
winter. The Universal Peace Union,
which is the name of the society in the
United States, is affiliated with the Nation-
al Council, and through that connection
the writer became somewhat acquainted
with the work and objects of the society.
Belva A. Lockwood is one of its ardent
representatives and an indefatigable worker
along these lines, also Mary Frost Ormsby.
Both women have been for years engaged
in many branches of reform work.
	The agitation of this subject, peace and
international arbitration and gradual dis-
armament, will necessarily create a senti-
ment in favor of better means of adjust-
ment of difficulties, and if no great change
is effected immediately public opinion will
be ventilated and people will come to an
understanding of the matter on general
principles, and in time will choose the bet-
ter way adhering more closely to the Golden
Rule.
	All these awakenings that come, from
time to time are helpful, and with such
meetings held in all lands as are being
held here in Utah, knowledge of the great
work of the Czar and the nation’s repre-
sentatives is sure to be diffused through
the daily press and from the pulpit, and it
cannot fail to produce good seed that will
spring up, and eventually the world will
become more inclined to peaceful solutions
of all the great problems of the universe.
At any rate the Peace Conference is a
hopeful indication to those who are looking
for the dawn of a better day, prophesied of
by the immortal Tennyson in that memor-
able poem, “Locksley Hall,”
		“A Parliament of nations,—
		The Federation of the world."


DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.

	“The Articles of Faith” is the title of a
book of 490 pages recently issued from the
Deseret News establishment. The book is
by Dr. James E. Talmage, and was written
by appointment and published by the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	It is a series of lectures on the principal


doctrines of the Church. The first page
contains the thirteen Articles of Faith by
Joseph Smith, with which the people are
already familiar. The index is very com-
plete which is always a valuable addition
to any important work. There is also an
Appendix which will be very helpful to
those who desire to make a study of the
book with a view to becoming familiar
with the contents, as a part of Church
theology, the Scriptures, Book of Mormon
and Revelations. Every lecture seems to
be definitely explained so as to be fully
comprehended, and in simplicity of language
the book recommends itself admirably.
The editor has undoubtedly taken great
pains to make all subjects plain, and the
object desired cannot fail to be accomplished
whether it is for theological students, Sun-
day School classes or educational institu-
tions.
	References to the Bible are numerous,
as also some to the Book of Mormon, the 
Pearl of Great Price and Book of Abraham.
The book will supply a long felt need in
regard to authorized doctrine on many 
vital points. Elders going forth as mis-
sionaries should certainly provide them-
selves with a copy for reference, and all
religious libraries should contain this
special treatise.
	The book is for sale at the Deseret News,
handsomely bound.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A SOCIAL AFTERNOON.

	At the residence of Mrs. Myra Y. Rossi-
ter on Thursday, May 4, there was a very
pleasant Kensington tea. The ladies were
mostly old friends whose acquaintance had
extended over many years, and among
them were bright young women who de-
lighted in helping to entertain. The
house was beautifully decorated in carna-
tions, roses and smilax, and the genial
hostess, always sweet and cheerful, was
more than gracious to all her guests.
	The tables were daintily arranged and
prettily grouped, refreshments delicious,
and the afternoon was passed in such con-
geniality of conversation that it will not
soon be forgotten. Sisters Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Minnie J.
Snow, Mary Alice Lambert, Lydia Ann
Wells, Emma Woodruff, Elizabeth Webb,
Sarah J. Cannon, Hannah C. Wells, Har-
riet Taylor, Vilate Young, Maria Y. Dou-
gall, Phebe Y. Beatie, Zina H. Bull, Mary
A. Freeze, Maria Winder and many others
were present and partook of the spirit of
the gathering, which was strictly one of
restful enjoyment. These social reunions
are most inspiring and comforting to those
who have many daily cares and duties, and
one who is thoughtful of these good sisters
whose devotion through long years of toil
and personal sacrifice, and who in a beauti-
ful home can open her doors and her heart
in generous hospitality, is in the true sense
of the word a benefactress.
	One of the ladies present at that party
has already passed behind the veil, Harriet
Taylor, daughter of Lucy D. Young and
sister of Mrs. Rossiter. How little we
know of the future; on that day her sweet
face and gentle manner reminded the writer
of her sainted mother, whose presence in
days gone by we were wont to see at many
social parties.
	Dear Sister Taylor died suddenly with-
out a word even to those she loved best on
earth, but as the poet said, so we believe—


Those who go—
Feel not the pain of parting, it is they
Who stay behind that suffer.


RESOLUTIONS FOR MAY FIF-
		TEENTH MEETING.

Resolved, That we the women of the
United States, believing in the solidarity of
humanity, recognize that whatever pro-
motes the permanent interests of one nation
must ultimately secure the highest welfare
of all; believing that the highest interests
of each nation are best conserved by its
own civil, political and social institutions;
that devotion to these interests in all nations
is measured by the industrial progress of
its peoples, and finds its best expression in
education, philanthropy, letters, art and re-
ligion; and realizing that these expressions
of a nation’s life languish in time of war
and are abated by all the influences, con-
ditions and circumstances accompanying
war and resulting therefrom, we deprecate
the maintenance aud enlargement of the
present standing armies of the world as a
menace to civilization, to culture and to
religious ideals; therefore
	Resolved, That we gratefully regard the
Conference convened by His Majesty the
Czar of Russia as the initiative of a tendency
which we hope will result in the abolition
of war as a means of settling International
Disputes, and the establishment of a per-
manent international court of arbitration.
Further, and finally,
	Resolved, That we extend to the com-
missioners appointed by President McKinley
to represent the government of the United
States at the Czar’s Conference, our con-
gratulations on the opportunity thus offered
them to assist in the inauguration of that
better method which shall characterize the
new civilization; and we respectfully beg to
assure them that their country women con-
fidently expect them to lend their high in-
fluence and large abilities to the service of
humanity by their disinterested efforts to
promote objects set forth in the letter of
His Majesty, the Czar of Russia, and the
still higher objects which are involved in
gradual disarmament, and which will come
to be regarded as its natural sequence.


AN APPEAL.

To the Women of Utah:
	In order to promote the international
peace measures which the Czar’s peace con-
ference at The Hague has been called to
consider, a Central Committee of prominent
women has been chosen consisting of one
woman from each country, that will join in
the movement. This has been brought
about largely through the influence and
efforts of Frau Professor Solenka of Munich,
who is the honored Chairman Lady Aber-
deen, whose name is well known in Amer-
ca, is the member of Committee from
Great Britain, and May Wright Sewall, of
Indianapolis, is the American member
from whom letters of instruction came calling
for meetings here. Later on, letters from
Munich were forwarded containing sugges-
tions and resolutions, and indicating gener-
al methods of procedure.
	It would seem by the delegation selected
by President McKinley to represent the
United States at the conference assembled
at The Hague, that the President has
considered the conference of great import-
ence. Hon. Andrew D. White, who heads
the delegation, is the ambassador from this
country to Berlin, Hon. Stanford Newel,
United States minister to Holland, in resi-
dence at The Hague. The other mem-
bers are President Seth Low, of Columbia
University; Capt. A. T. Mahan, of the
navy, (retired); Capt. Wm. Crozier, of
the army, and the Hon. Frederick William
Holls of New York, as secretary and coun-
sel. It is assuredly a very strong and dig-
nified commission, and the people of the
United States may be very justly proud of
the selections.
	The declaration of the Czar in favor of
peace, which was at first met by derision,
has now aroused sympathy from all civili-
ized nations. The more mature de-
liberation of thoughtful and intelligent peo-
ple cannot fail to see something practical in
the future, growing out of this generally
awakened sentiment, which favors peace 
and international arbitration instead of war
and bloodshed, which are, and naturally
must be, always demoralizing in their
effects upon the civilization of the world.
	In consideration of the great importance
of this subject, the women throughout this
city are most respectfully and earnestly
solicited to lend their influence, and also to
take an active part in a public demonstra-
tion on the evening of May fifteenth, in the
interest of the peace movement now being
agitated throughout the civilized world.
Meetings are to be held simultaneously in
all the larger towns and cities in this and
in other countries, wherever people are
sufficiently interested in the subject to
gather together and unite in prayers, hymns,
speeches and Resolutions looking toward
the betterment of the world, through a
gradual disarmament (of armies and navies)
and cessation of hostilities between nations.
	While the greatest men of the world are
wrestling with this problem of how to pro- 
mote and foster better and happier condi-
tions for mankind, women also are equally
interested (if not even more) in the moral
and spiritual welfare of humanity, and.
should certainly exert an influence in
favor of the uplifting tendencies abroad in
the world. And in the coming together
for the general good of all, men are most
cordially invited to participate, even though
the meeting is held under the auspices of a
woman’s movement.


All ministers of the city and pastors of
churches are most respectfully solicited to
preach from the pulpit on the preceding
Sabbath, sermons upon the peace move-
ment.
	And, therefore, in conclusion we cannot
too strongly emphasize the fact that wo-
men in all the walks of life should attend
the meeting and strengthen the movement
by their presence, their influence and their
vote upon the Resolutions presented by the
Central Committee to the women of all
lands.
	Emmeline B. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor,
Margaret B. Salisbury, Zina D. H. Young,
Bertha G. Bamberger, Elizabeth C.
McCune, Minnie J. Snow, M. Isabella
Horne, Maria Y. Dougall, Ruth M. Fox,
Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Pratt.


TRIP TO THE SOUTH.

	President Lorenzo Snow contemplates a
visit to southern Utah commencing today,
May 15, that will extend over a period of
two weeks or more.
	The party, that will consist of Presidents
Lorenzo Snow, Jos. F. Smith, and Frank-
lin Richards, Apostles F. M. Lyman, Rudger
Clawson, together with Elders Seymour B.
Young and Bishop W. B. Preston, will
leave Salt Lake City on Monday 15, and
journey by train to McCune station, below
Milford, where the party will be met by
the Presidency of the St. George Stake and
several prominent citizens of St. George.
From this point they will drive to St.
George, where they will arrive by Tuesday
evening, all being well.
	After a brief stay in that city the entire
party will visit and hold meetings in the
following settlements ere they return to
Salt Lake City:
	Kanarra, Cedar, Parowan, Beaver,
Meadow, Kanosh, Fillmore, Holden and
Scipio.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WO-
	MEN.

	The National Council of Women just
entering upon its fourth term starts most
auspiciously. The term of office is three
years, and the general plan of organization
and representation in the Council is as
nearly parallel to the government of the
United States as is possible in an organiza-
tion which, like the United States, is con-
stantly expanding. Its expansion, how-
ever, always rests upon the consent of the
governed. The officers for the next term
are well and carefully chosen to represent
the various sections of the country, as well
as the varying interests.
	Mrs. Fanny Humphreys Gaffney of New
York, the president, is a woman not yet
forty, but with each year recording pro-
gressive accomplishment of some line of
work. She is versatile, original, magnetic
and self-centered, not great or unusual in
any way, but with just enough altruism
and appreciation of others and their rights
or wrongs, or their abilities or disabilities,
to make her a successful leader and a satis-
factory presiding officer.

	Mrs. Maria Purdy Peck of Iowa, the vice
president, is a student of history, an author-
ity on many issues of college government,
and a woman of wide range of thought
and activity. She is well known in Iowa,
and whoever knows of her knows that the
one word to describe Mrs. Peck is to say,
‘‘She is reliable.” No higher praise can
be given any one than is conveyed in this
word, and the council is to be congratulated
on having so able a vice president.

	The recording secretary, Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer, of Rhode Island, is a mind
so able and a delivery so forcible and ad-
mirable, that one feels convinced that who-
ever hears her must admit that this is in-
deed a stateswoman.

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, of Washing-
ton, D. C., the corresponding secretary, is
well and widely known through her con-
nection with the Florence Crittenden Mis-
sion. Her sweet face, gracious presence
and earnestness, make her a worthy secre-
tary to the council, and her firm belief in
the idea of the council cannot fail to im-
press all who may receive a word from her
able pen.

	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, of Utah, assis-
tant recording secretary, is a pioneer in
woman's work. She is editor of a paper,

[Column 2]
has run for the Legislature and meanwhile
brought up a family. She is aunt to the
present Governor of Utah, and is highly
respected and honored by all who know
her.

	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, of Chicago,
the treasurer, is better known, perhaps, as
president of the National Council of Jewish
Women. Able, earnest, confident and
successful is Mrs. Solomon in all things;
and the council feels that its finances are in
wise and competent hands.

	Persons desirous of attending the Con-
gress of Women, to be held in London
commencing June 26th and lasting one week,
may be interested to learn that the Con-
gress is held under the direction of the In-
ternational Council of Women, of which
Lady Aberdeen is president.
	The tickets, which include the right to
attend all meetings and take part in discus-
sions, may be purchased for attendance at
this Congress by any woman interested.
These tickets have to be subscribed for in
advance. The price is most moderate;
$1.75 to non-affiliated club members and
$1.25 to those affiliated. To those pur-
chasing tickets early in the season, the
privileges of invitation to certain social
functions will be probably extended—such
as the reception in Stafford House, garden
party at Fulham Palace, and the lawn
party at Gunnersbury Park by Lady Roths-
child.

	Naturally the International Council is the
heart and center of all the congresses and
at its business sessions only presidents and
delegates from National Councils are pres-
ent, but visitors and all interested are
cordially welcomed at all open meetings of
the Council and the general congresses,
and a hearty invitation is extended to all
interested to attend. The privilege of dis-
cussion is open to all at most sessions and
all who are necessarily cut off from the
regular formal program of the various
meetings of the council or congress may
speak and present their cause in this way.

	Many meetings will be going on at one
and the same time in various halls, as it
would be impossible to give all a hearing
on one platform in the short period of one
week; but it is the desire of the committee
to have the Congress as representative as
possible and no one whom it is possible to
include will be shut out. Those expecting
to attend the Congress would best engage
rooms ahead, as the London season being
still on when the Congress meets, hotels
and boarding houses will naturally be in
demand.

	The Hotel Victoria and Hotel Metropole
each have single rooms from 3-6 up and
other hotels at about the same price or
cheaper. Letters addressed simply to
these hotels, London, will reach destination.
Boarding houses are numerous and prices
reasonable, as are also apartments where
rooms are hired and meals ordered extra.

	Further circulars or information may be
had by addressing the president of the
National Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney 333 west 77th street, New York,
or the corresponding secretary, Mrs. Kate
Waller Barrett, 218 Third street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.
	Among the speakers already determined

[Column 3]
upon for the International Council are:
	Miss Bates, Octavia Williams,
	Miss Anthony, Susan B.,
	Mrs. Peck, Maria Purdy,
	Miss S. American,
	Professor Bamberger,
	Mrs. Gaffney, Fannie Humphreys,
	Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
	Miss Sartain,
	Mrs. C. W. Alden, and others.
	
	There seems to be much question as to
the relation of the International Council
and the Congress of Women to be held in
London, yet the relation is most simple.
The International Council, an organized
body, holds its quinquennial or regular
fifth yearly session, as is its custom. As it
is an organized body, with regular dele-
gates and business of its own to attend to,
in order to include all women and have the
broadest possible representation of woman’s
work, it calls, while its own meeting is in
progress and under its auspices, this Con-
gress of Women, in order to widen the
range of opportunity, hearing and meeting
for all women interested in the work of
women up to date.
	The question is asked, ‘‘Are not fraternal
delegates received by the International
Council? Yes, through the medium of
this congress, which is called for all fratern-
al delegates in the widest and most hospit-
ible sense. Individuals of any national
societies affiliated with the National Coun-
cil here in the United States can be re-
ceived in the Congress by signing a blank
(forms for which can be had) stating such
desire. All that is necessary is to have
this blank also signed by the president and
secretary of the association so affiliated.
As for instance, any member of a local
suffrage league or the W. C. T. U. could
get such signature from her local president
or secretary and it would be honored, be-
cause the National Suffrage association is
affiliated with the National Council here, as
is also the W. C. T. U. There must be
forwarded with this blank the sum of $1.25.
These blanks will be furnished to appli-
cants.
	A general form of application is also
issued for the use of private individuals not
affiliated. For this $1.75 is charged.
	Organization is the keynote of the home
—the Council is the center around which
organizations revolve, each true to its.own
orbit.
	It is only by confering together in coun-
cil that the broadest, widest thought can be
reached, and the most harmonious results
in organization obtained.
	In answer to the question, “What is the
National Council?” I must ask you another
question then answer it myself.
	What constitutes the United States?—
neither territory, constitution nor people,
though each are vital and essential.
	Territory is senseless and of itself bound-
less; the Constitution is a document only,
however much it may contain or express in
sentiments or signatures; while the people
of the United States are of varying types
and degree and changing condition. The
real United States is held together and kept
a national unit by the spirit and intention
expressed in that Constitution—that spirit
being endorsed and acquiesced in daily life
by the people who submit to its rule.
Thus the United States is really a spiritual
entity held in the minds of the people.
	Now carry this thought of spiritual entity
to our Council. The strength of our Coun


[Column 1]
cil can never consist in material things nor
visible results, but in the spirit and idea
which the council upholds in its preamble:
	“We, women of the United States, sin-
cerely believe that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy
and purpose, and that an organized move-
ment of women will best conserve the
highest good of the family and the State,
do hereby unite ourselves in a confedera-
tion of workers committed to the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and in-
justice, and to the application of the Golden
Rule, to society, custom and law.”
	The aim of the council is to bring to-
gether women interested in differing lines
of earnest work, that thereby breadth,
sympathy and tolerance may be brought
about, as well as a higher intelligence in
regard to the needs and common interests
of women.
	The council, as an organization, provides
a field and tournament ground where all
causes may plant their banners and main-
tain their claims for consideration.
	The herald of the council proclaims that
this council assembles publicly once in
three years to consider:
	“Whatsoever things are true, whatso-
ever things are honest, whatsoever things
are just, whatsoever things are pure, what-
soever things are lovely, whatsoever things
are of good report; if there be any virtue
and if there be any praise.” Phil. 4th
chap. 8th verse.
	It is of these things that the council
thinks.
	The council represents the highest ideal
of organized womanhood. It is the fair
court of justice, where the moral and up-
lifting forces of organization find common
hearing, balance and adjustment to the
needs of the hour.
	It knows neither bond nor free, nor
creed nor sect. It promotes no one or any
cause but such as its affiliated societies can
unite upon. Not all the causes advanced
in the council meet with the plaudits or
general consent of that body. But each
cause strikes a grand note that swells and
broadens into sound which arrests and
attunes the ear to listen for that harmony
which can only come through differing
tones centering in a common key. It is
organized to listen and learn—not to dictate
nor control.
	The organ has many pipes, yet the
music produced by it is grander and more
comprehensive than that of a single instru-
ment. An orchestra has its many instru-
ments, each player familiar with only his
own instrument, yet the result is unity and
harmony.
	The council is the woman organ or or-
chestra of influence for this century. It
seeks to unite the many differing voices
and heart cries of women into one harmon-
ous chant, which will lift the thought of
the listening world to higher, better things.
	To illustrate in detail the spirit and uni-
fying force of the council—consider again
the fact already stated that not all the
causes advanced within the council arena
meet with united favor or support, notably
the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union
and the Woman’s Suffrage Association are
potent and faithful to the council idea, but
no woman’s suffrage resolution has ever
been offered to that, body for consideration
nor has the W. C. T. U asked the dele-
gates assembled in council to endorse total
abstinence.

[Column 2]
	The National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society does not attempt to
proselyte delegates to become either mis-
sionaries or Baptists, nor does the Woman’s
Republican association of, the United States
urge that delegates all endorse the Repub-
lican party and repudiate the Democratic
principle.

	The council idea is above and beyond
little differences. It seeks for the things to
unite and overlooks the ones that divide.
The council stands ready to welcome the
Woman’s Democratic Association, if such a
one exists—and it yearns to lend its broad-
ening influence and patient ear to the anti-
suffragists, if they will come within the
fold. Each and every organization joining
has the same voice and power—two votes,
no more nor less—so no one cause can be
at the mercy of the others, since it is not
majority rule, but united effort that is the
outcome of the council.

	I am asked what are the advantages of
joining the council. If you appreciate
breadth of view with the mountains of
promise ever before you, their caps white-
topped with noble effort and crowned with
perpetual light, if you wish to rise to the
level of your highest thought and attempt
to fulfill the prayer, “Thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven,” then there will be
no question of an individual or an associa-
tion being benefited by belonging to the
council.
	The advantage to a special organization
is that their subjects are here before a vary-
ing and more representative constituency.
Delegates and guests attending these coun-
cil gatherings come with minds attuned to
progress and open to conviction.
	In order to defray the necessary general
expenses, national organizations joining the
council pay $100 every three years, or
$33 1-3 a year. State councils pay $60 for
three years, or $20 a year, and local coun-
cils pay $24 every three years.
	Twenty national and five State and local
councils are now affiliated with the council.

	Individuals may be made life patrons
with full privileges of council except
formal ballot by paying $100 to the Coun-
cil, annual contributors pay $5 and also re-
ceive many privileges of the council.
	To be asked to become a patron of the
Council of Women is esteemed an honor,
since no name stands as patron except it
represent high purpose and character.
Patrons are not limited to women, as many
prominent men lend their means and in-
fluence to further the work of the council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY AT HADEN, IDAHO.

	On Friday, March 17th, the members of
the Haden ward Relief Society held an
entertainment in commemoration of the first
Relief Society organized.  The members of
our society being very limited in number,
it became necessary, in order to make a
success of the occasion, to invite the whole
ward.
	At 7:30 p. m. the company commenced
gathering at the ward meeting house,
which was soon well filled. When all was
quiet opening prayer was offered and appro-
priate remarks were made by President
Martha Little. Then came the reading of
the minutes of the first Relief Society held,
after which came dancing interspersed with


songs, recitations and speeches. Refresh-
ments were served by a committee of young
ladies. All present seemed to partake of
the spirit of the occasion, and manifested a
lively interest in the proceedings.
	After the program had been rendered and
the dancing ceased the entertainment was
dismissed by prayer, and all returned
feeling well satisfied with the evening’s
amusement.
	Our Relief Society has not been able to
hold meetings regularly during the winter
on account of the extremely cold weather
and deep snow, which has been unusually
tedious the past winter.
	Our community has had its share of
sickness and some deaths have occurred,
but with the approach of spring the health
of the people is improving; and seldom has
spring in all its glory been more eagerly
welcomed than at the present time by the
inhabitants of Teton Valley.
		MARTHA LITTLE, President.
		N. G. SMITH, Secretary.


REAPER’S CLUB.

	The Reaper’s Club met in the Woman’s
Exponent office, Templeton building, April
31, 1899.
	A paper on the Life of David Livingston,
was read by Mrs. Marian C. Hannibal.
	Mr. Livingston was born near Glasgow,
Scotland, in 1813. He sailed to Africa and
landed at Cape Town in 1840. Livingston
received a good knowledge of medicine
and was a student of theology. He also
possessed considerable information on scien-
tific subjects. His love for humanity was
great, and prompted him to leave country
and friends to better the condition of others.
	Mr. Livingston endured many hardships.
While in Africa he was attacked by a lion,
and had his arm badly crushed. The
marks left from this injury served to identi- 
fy his remains when they arrived in Eng-
land.
	Livingston being lost for a time to the
civilized world, Henry M. Stanley was sent
to find him. This he succeeded in doing,
but Dr. Livingston after receiving aid de-
cided to remain and make further explor-
ations.
	He died amid the wilds of Africa on May
1, 1873. His body was taken to England
and interred in Westminister Abbey.
	Miss J. A. Druce read a paper on the
Life and Works of Beethoven, the great
composer.
	Ludwig Van Beethoven was born in 1770
at Bonn, a town on the Rhine a few miles
above Cologne. As a child he loved
music, was fond of nature and enjoyed
listening to the singing of birds. He did
not care much for amusements such as
children usually enjoy, and often appeared
lonely except when playing on his beloved
piano, then he was happy. In fact this
study was his chief pleasure in life.
	Beethoven received a good musical edu-
cation and possessed remarkable genius in
composition, improvisation, etc.
	His hearing became defective when he
was about 26 years of age, and at 28 de-
veloped into total deafness. Owing to this
severe calamity his labors as an instrument-
al performer gave place to work as a com-
poser.
	Many of his musical creations are the
grandest ever written. His Symphonies
are tone poems, and the Sonatas are
thought to be operas in disguise.


April 17th Mrs. Amelia Wardrop read a
paper on the Life and Inventions of T. A.
Edison.
	Mr. Edison was born in Ohio, February
1847, and was of Dutch and Scotch des-
cent. He read much at an early age on
chemistry.
	Many dramatic incidents occurred in this
man’s life. Fifteen years ago Edison took
hold of the electric light and made it a suc-
cess, so that its general use became practic-
able. Many experiments had previously
been tried both in this country and Europe,
but failed. Edison was also the discoverer
and inventor of the musical phonograph.
	Mrs. J. Druce gave descriptions of some
ancient cathedrals and churches in Mexico.
	The Grand Cathedral in the City of
Mexico was commenced in 1573 A. D., but
was not completed until 1667, at a cost of
over two million dollars. The towers are
two hundred feet high and contain forty
six bells. This edifice is grand and impos-
ing. The walls are built of unhewn basalt,
and the choir is constructed with very rare
and costly carved woods. Many of the
articles, such as candlesticks, crosses, etc.,
were of solid gold or silver encrusted with
precious stones.
	The great calender stone by which the
Aztecs calculated a recurrence of their
cycles, (52 years) and the months of each
year, was cemented into the western wall
of this cathedral in 1790 A. D. It still re-
mains in that position, and is a veritable
relic of the Aztecs. The stone is covered
with hieroglyphics.
	Other cathedrals were also richly dec-
orated.
			J. A. DRUCE, Cor Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INCORPORATION.

THE DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	This organization was incorporated April
3, 1899, and has for its object, as set forth
in the articles, which were filed in the
county clerk’s office, the perpetuation of
the patriotic spirit of the men and women 
who achieved American independence, by
commemorating prominent events connect-
ed with the war of the revolution; the en-
couragement of the study of American his-
tory and first, last and all the time to instil
into the hearts of the young the spirit of
liberty that made American independence
an accomplished fact. 
	The incorporators are Emmeline B. Wells,
Sarah F. Smith, Ella W. Hyde, Lucy E.
W. Smith, Isabel M. Whitney Sears, Mary
A. H. Cannon, Maria Y. Dougall, Myra
Y. Rossiter, Caroline Y. Cannon, Susa
Young Gates, Julia P. M. Farnsworth,
Julia Almira Farnsworth, Almira H. Mur-
dock, Emily H. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beattie,
Clarissa S. Williams, Catherine Wells,
Alice S. M. Horne, Claire Clawson and
Minnie Maebelle Snow.
	The officers are: Regent, Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells; first vice regent, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates; second vice regent, Mrs.
Clarissa S. Williams; recording secretary,
Julia A. Farnsworth; assistant secretary,
Maebelle Snow; corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith; treasurer,
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon; registrar, Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie; historian, Mrs. Alice Smith 
Merrill Horne; chaplain, Mrs. Maria Young
Dougall. The State council is composed of
Mrs. Cannon, Mrs. Seats, Mrs. Farnsworth,
Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Rossiter and Mrs. Hyde.


CELEBRATION OF PRESIDENT BRIG-
HAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY AT
SALTAIR.

	The Young Family Association con-
templates having the grandest celebration
this year, on “The First of June,” that
has been known in Utah for a long time.
Something like Pioneer Day in early Utah
times, when everybody was invited, seems
to be in progress. All friends of the great
Pioneer, President Brigham Young, and all
others who are interested will be cordially
welcomed to participate in the enjoyment
of a real gala day at Saltair. Committees
have been appointed to attend to all the
necessary arrangements, and a splendid
program is in preparation.
	It will be the ninety-eighth birthday of
the honored and beloved leader of the peo-
ple who first settled Utah, and President
Lorenzo Snow, with the other Church
authorities, enter heartily into the idea of
observing in the elaborate way suggested, as
being appropriate thus to keep in memory
one of the greatest men of the present cen-
tury.
						L. L G. R.


APPEAL FROM CLARA BARTON.

	The Red Cross is now establishing in
Cuba at the request of the Government, a
Hospital Service to assist in the care of the
sick and homeless people of the island. In
the Philippines owing to the active opera-
tions now being conducted by the American
army, and the approach of the rainy season
in the tropics, we are increasing the hospital
staff already there, assisting in the care of
the sick and the wounded.
	If your generous readers wish to take
part in the work, and if the service rendered
by the Red Cross during the Spanish-
American War has commended itself to
them, may I ask that you will kindly
explain to them our present mission, and
ask their co-operation and support ?
	All contributions should be sent to this
office, and be made payable to John Joy
Edson, treasurer, or to the American
National Red Cross.
			CLARA BARTON.


That country is the fairest which is in-
habited by the noblest mind. 
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw and her secretary,
Miss Lucy E. Anthony, expect to spend
this summer riding through England,
Scotland and Ireland on their wheels.
	A correspondent of the Boston Transcript
protests against the name of the “Simmons
Female College” for the new industrial
college for women about to be founded in
this city. He or she writes: “Away back
in the fifties Mrs. Sarah Jane Hale began
her crusade against the use of this word in
names of institutions for women. Her
criticisms were approved, and the practice
supposed to be stopped. It is certainly to
be hoped that there is nothing to prevent a
change in the proposed name, otherwise a
department for the education of female
horses, dogs, cats or any other animals may
be legally annexed to this college! Anoth-
er for all fowl or bird life of the female
gender, and so on indefinitely. Simmons
College for Women would be an honoring
and honorable name. Can it not be thus
named?


CALL FOR PEACE MEETING.

	Pursuant to a call made upon the ladies
of Utah by the American member of the
International Peace Committee, arrange-
ments have been made to hold a public
mass meeting of citizens, under the auspices
of women’s organizations in Utah, in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Monday evening,
May 15, 1899, simultaneously with women’s
meetings throughout this and other countries.
Held’s famous band will be in attendance to
inspire the audience with sweet music, and
five-minute speeches from prominent men
and women on the peace subject, with some
good vocal music, will make an attractive
program. Gov. Wells is expected to be
present and preside. Tae public is most
cordially invited.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
			RUTH M. FOX.

Save Your Money! 
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD,

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 10, 1809.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver..............................................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.................................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver...3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco..............7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.......................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points.................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus...........................................6.00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis.............................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and Intermediate points.........8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points................7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco..6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco.....................9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco......................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus...............................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
	*Daily except Sunday.

City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.		Gen. P. and T. Agent
			W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.

