JUNE 1949 -. The Cover: '" Sweet ITlemory Dorothy J. Roberts I recall him, true and wise, The lad from long ago who cries A starry beauty back to me Through nbboned lanes of memory. When twinkling pools of rain would hide Their stumbling depths from me, as guide, He steered my elbow in his palm. He poured his simple faith as balm To heal my budding discontent And lit a maiden's wonderment. I never hear him in the dark, Moving now, nor could I mark His lightened footfalls should they pass, Still as shadows over grass Or midnight sparrow under eaves. Yet often when catalpa leaves Are shielding their ethereal bloom, I drift from this dissolving room And walk with him a country lane, A summer evening washed with rain. Talisman Rose," Photograph by Josef Muench. A Measuring Rod for Growth Blanche B. Stoddard Member, Relief Society General Board [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.| HIS morning we had a wonderful demonstration of the growth of our building fund which will make possible the realization of a great Relief Society dream. For a moment this afternoon, I would like to speak of a measuring rod for our own individual growth, the following of which may make it possible for us to realize some of our dreams., We have a beautiful song which says: "I know that my Redeemer lives, and because he lives, I, too, shall live again." 'The sacrifice of Jesus has ensured the resurrection. We shall literally live again. But his coming has brought to us another kind of living, a rich, full, abundant living that we do not have to wait to enjoy in some hereafter. Before the tme of Jesus the old Mosaic Law was in effect, "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," but Jesus brought us the greater law of love, of tolerance, and forgiveness. He gave us the key for this rich, abundant life, and his gospel is highly practical. It is something that we can put into our daily lives and really live, and it is a strange thing, is it not, that we hold to perfection in obedience to natural law. We just take for granted that if we obey certain laws we get certain results. But we do not always do that in regards to this great law of love. Page 364 For instance, if I want to bake a cake, I must have certain ingredients and certain proportions, and if I skimp or leave out one I do not get a good cake. My husband is a builder. If he wants good concrete he must have cement, sand, and water, and if he leaves out any of these he has not good concrete. If you want to send a special delivery letter you must have a thirteen-cent stamp, a tencent stamp is not enough. If we want a pound we must have sixteen ounces; fourteen will not do. And it is said that one-thousandth of an inch variation in the building of an engine shaft will cause enough friction to ruin it. O, do I fool the oven with short measure recipes? Does my husband fool the sun with short measure concrete? Do we fool the laws of harmony when we play false notes? We fool only ourselves. Then why can we not accept this same procedure in following exactly and completely this great law of love which encompasses all others? Why cannot we take for our formula of life: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," a formula just as exact and scientific as any other? To solve it does not entail great sacrifice or noble and heroic deeds, just the will to live from day to day with A MEASURING ROD FOR GROWTH the happiness of others as our goal, and in reaching it we will find our own greatest happiness. So let us take that formula for our measuring rod and as the years go by, at intervals let each of us ask himself, have I grown in love this past year? Is it easier for me to love all men, all classes, all nations? Am I as kind in my home and thoughtful as I could be? Can I tell those I love that I do love and appreciate them? Or, is it too much bother? Am I as kind in my judgment as I ought to be? And it seems to me, sisters, this last is a keynote for our happiness, to be kind in our judgment of each other. It is said that we judge other people by their actions; ourselves by Our intentions, and that is not fair, is it? If we were willing to judge other people by their intentions we could never judge, because we cannot possibly know what is in another's heart. One day my little daughter came running into the house and said, "Mother, Joyce says I am spoiled." And I said, "Well, Judy, I have heard you say a dozen times that Joyce is spoiled." She did not answer for a second or two and then she said, "Well, but she is." A fine old English convert moved into one of our wards a few years ago and had been there but a short time when the bishop asked him to take charge of the sacrament table for the following month. He was so thrilled to think that he was worthy, but some of the sisters in the ward went to the bishop and said: "This man is not worthy to handle the sacrament. He smokes." 365 He had been a heavy smoker all of his life but now he had joined the Church and he was trying so hard, and these women did not know what his wife knew. Day after day she would see him out in his garden down upon his knees with the tears streaming down his face, praying for strength to leave the cigarette alone. He had conquered and he was worthy, but they did not know it. When we moved to Salt Lake a number of years ago we lived next door to a sister who held a very high position in the Church, but she did not go to sacrament meeting. She did not go to Relief Society meeting. She did not visit the poor and the needy. She did not do any of the things I thought she should in the position she held. It seemed to me she just rocked on her front porch day after day, and I was quite free in my criticism of her. But I awakened one morning to find that she had died in the night with cancer that I knew nothing about. That is why she could not do the things she wanted to do. So let us be kind in our judgments of each other. EMEMBER this morning in the closing prayer, Sister Cowley implored the Lord that we might guard our tongues. Most of the trouble and unhappiness that come in our association together is because of our unguarded tongues, the unkind things we say. Our pioneer grandmothers had a code. They prayed: "Lord, keep us from pettiness. Help us to be big in thought and word and deed." And it might help us to remember this, that great minds discuss ideals, 366 average minds discuss events, small minds discuss people. I wish we would remember and teach our children that to find happiness we must seek it in a focus outside ourselves, the kindly visit to those im troubl those in distress rather than to seek my own comfort—that must be something that Jesus would have me do, and to speak words of underus today. On the way, because the selfish putsuit of our own plans will guide us away from his path. Look about you. Who are the neurotics among us? Not these sisters on the stand, not our Relief Society officers, Out auxiliary workers, not our bishopric, not out First Presidency. They are too busy serving others to feel sorry for themselves. And men are only great as they are kind, and the more kind the more Christ-like. And I am sure we have no finer example in all the world than our beloved Prophet of today who is with us this afternoon. He is known all over this world as a kindly man who loves the children of his Father in heaven. I do so want to tell a sweet little story about him, and I do not have his permission, put I do have his daughter Fdith's, so maybe President Smith can settle with her. Fdith went to pick him up at his office, on a winter night, and he put on his hat and said he was ready to go. And she said, "Where is yout overcoat?" He said, "I haven't any." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 She said, "Papa, where is your new overcoat?" And he said, "Well, I went out at noon and I met a man on the street who was cold and shivering and did not have a coat and I gave him mine." So Edith wrapped a shawl around him and took him home, and I am sure she must have wrapped it around him with special tenderness that night, thankful for the great heart within her father. So we must let ourselves be touched by the spirit of the Master, that we may speak words of kindness and appreciation to those we meet in the common walks of life. The Master said, "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God." And the peacemakers are those who, having love and sympathy for men, are always trying to get them to undereach other and to co-operate with their Heavenly Faon earth. There is such an opportunity to serve all about wus, and it is not always enough to do the little things we have to do. The real joy comes in doing the things we do not have to do. | No! Long ago I was riding on a bus down Ninth South. It was _ We got in the middle of a bus driver stopped the bus and got A MEASURING ROD FOR GROWTH out and helped him across, came back and got in and we went on. Not a word was said, but I am sure every heart on that bus was warmed because he did not have to do that httle thing, and I imagine dozens of motorists had whizzed by this blind man and probably thought, poor man, I hope he makes it, but the bus driver did something about it. President Smith has given a definite assignment to Relief Society to spiritualize the homes of the Latter-day Saints, but we must start with our own by teaching therein the gospel of Christ. And we all heard Brother Howard Driggs say here in our conference two years ago that the spirit of the gospel is caught, not taught. It is easy to admire the teachings of Jesus. It costs no effort and it satisfies our yearning for the ideal. It is likewise easy to discuss him and his principles. Day after day and week after week, in our Church organizations, we listen to the great truths of his teachings, but when we have to dig down to build upon the rock; when we try loving our enemies instead of getting even with them, how different we find it. Yet we know it is the doing of these things that is the final test of our character and is the measuring rod of our growth, and though we cannot do all the things that Jesus did we can have faith in him. Though we cannot perform the miracles he did, we can still grow more like him who went about doing good. _ As we study the precepts of our Savior, seeds of kindness and forgiveness are sown in our hearts. Then 367 let us act upon them that they may bring forth their fruit. Then we must ask ourselves if we have grown in love these past years, and as we go among our fellows may our lives silently and surely influence others until the whole earth is leavened. Not very long ago Brother Stoddard and I were coming home from San Francisco and it was necessary to drive all night, so I took the wheel for about a hundred miles while he rested, and I was amazed at the great system of beacon lights and warnings on our great desert, warnings to the aviators and the motorists. And I noticed something else as I drove along that night, and you notice the next time you are out, that all these metal markers along the side of the road and these curve signs, they are just dark, dull metal. They do not mean a thing until our light flashes on them, then immediately they send back their warning to us. Now our Heavenly Father has put his guideposts all along the way, the Word of Wisdom, the law of chastity, of forgiveness, of tolerance and service, but they will not mean anything to us unless our lights are on. So let us keep them shining brightly and grow each day more like him, and be sure our measuring rod is big and broad. May our testimony of Jesus be the kind of which he would approve, a testimony clearly spoken through our lives, and may his principles of living, his example of helping others to the more abundant life, become our own life purpose, I humbly pray. Contest Announcements—1949 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different wniting skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contest study carefully the articles on creative writing which appear in this Magazine, and also similar articles in the June issues for 1947 and 1948: "The Art of Poetry Writing—A Symposium of Opinions," page 370, June 1947, and "We Want to Write," page 375, June 1947; "For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty," page 370, June 1948, and "You Can Write a Prize Winner," page 372, June 1948. Gliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1949. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize 2.2.222-2---$25 Second prize ---$20 Third prize - ---$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1950 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 368 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Societv general board, and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. | 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1949 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational a0 369 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem. E. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1949. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1949 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1949. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize ---.--.$50 Second prize $40 Third prize —.$30 The three prize-winning. Stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1950. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of 370 publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D.. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1948. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. O<—-oSemple Shadows Lizabeth Wall It casts a cool, long shadow on the grass, This great, gray, kindly Temple I have found. Beyond the gates I hear the people pass; All up and down the busy street, the sound Of traffic beats a city-sad refrain. But those who walk the paths beneath these walls Shall seek this place again... And yet again To find sure comfort where the shadow falls. This soft, green shadow holds a gentle peace That all the tangled world is searching for. Here is the answer, here is all release, Escape from pain... Or fear... Or any war. The Temple hears each lost, bewildered cry, And reaches up to find God in the sky. <i - Roses Wee With Rain Grace Sayre Beyond the poignancy of grief, When storm shall harass and oppress, A loveliness shall blossom forth To greet the heart's caress. And with the joy of it the pulse That beats anew and aches the throat, Swells to sing its happiness In quickened, lilting note, And memory, forgetting pain, Remembers roses wet with rain. Points for Poets to Remember Eva Willes Wangsgaard Author of Singing Hearts, Down This Road, After the Blossoming, Within the Root VERY published poem has won a contest because it was chosen from many contributions, the greatest percentage of which had to be sent back. What makes a poem? Chiefly emotion and originality (that originality inherent in personality, which is the only originality since Eve), clothed in appropriate and effective words and arranged in a form suitable to the subject. Suppose we want to write a poem, what do we seek first? The idea with the poet's personality attached to it, what she feels and thinks about a particular situation, circumstance, heartbreak, or other experience. How do we go about it? We con it over very close to our hearts, letting it stir and grow from the very depths of our beings, thinking, utterly alone, far removed in thought from surroundings, people, and things, until the idea is rooted and sprouting. The chances are that it will somehow know whether to be an oak or a maple, just as a seedling does. I let a poem take its form from the emotion it rouses in me and hope that it will stir my readers to feel what I am feeling. But if it does not choose the proper form, it is a cripple and will not produce the desired effect. Some poets build poems with a conscious choice of form to fit the emotion they expect to arouse. If you choose your form, then do it surely. In order to do this you must make yourself a master of form. Any good rhyming dictionary carries a chapter or two on meter, forms, and patterns, with a discussion of what scholars have learned about their use and effects on readers. Also, any poet who wishes to increase the quality and effectiveness of her work should provide herself with a good basic textbook on poetry writing and should study it diligently. All of us have poetic ideas, but we must learn to express these ideas in a way which will be understandable and pleasing to others. A technical training is just as essential for poetry as it is for music or painting or sculpture or any of the other arts. Practice in following the various forms and patterns of poetry will make them so much a part of you that they will be waiting inside to come when you need them. Many poems appeal because of their form and rhythm which make the reader feel the sensation the poet wishes to portray. Activities such as swinging, flying, rowing, walking, have inherent rhythms. Poems need portray no very deep philosophy if they stir the reader with emotion and memories. Many poets object to strict forms in poetry as a hindrance to thought processes, but I find form an aid to good results. It furnishes the music which is the chief agent in stirring emotion and it disciplines the poet to choose her words carefully. In order to fill the form to its fullest Page 371 372 capacity a poet must think deeply and prune conscientiously. 'This makes for better thinking, deeper feeling, and so, of course, for better poetry. However, if a poet lazily fills in lines with wordage like lumpy cotton batting, the poem will be loose and the form will show through above the idea and will make a bad poem. Careless and uninspired work is always bad. It is not the form, but the poet's hitching a ride on the form, which hurts a poem. MAGERY is another aid to a poet, giving her a chance to paint a picture, stir an appropriate emotion, and put a profound concept into a concrete form which might have been ponderous and have fallen unheeded without this path to the heart. 'Take this from "Between Seasons": He who alone stands watching summer go Southward on wings and earthward in a leaf Feeling all time in one relentless flow, Longs for a portion he may hold in brief. Here you see the man standing out beneath the sky, the leaves falling, the migrant geese flying, and feel the swift passage of summer and youth. You long with him to grasp a portion to hold in your hand a little longer as proof that you had it, but feel the futility, with time slipping farther and farther away. Or take: When I consider that a century Has gone as windswept appleblossoms go Here you tie the passing of a hundred years to a common experience of the here and now. Allusions help to stir memories and say much in few words, as: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Denied the Star, the Mount, the Fatal || Here the life of Christ is referred to by the sign of his birth, the star, the Mount of Olives, and Calvary Hill where his sacrifice was consummated. Now let's take up a few of the dont's of poetry writing. Don't invert for the sake of rhyme. An inversion is a change in the natural order of word arrangement. In conversation we might say: The birds flew south. But the amateur poet might say: South flew the birds. This would be an inversion. To invert in order that a word or phrase may be given added emphasis for a purpose is good, but to turn a sentence inside out like a schoolboy's sweater just to make rhyming easy shows laziness or thoughtlessness and puts the work on the reader. Inversions were never good form. Poets have used inversions because people like to hear rhymes, and by inverting a line a poet could get words that were easy to rhyme and saved the effort of finding harder ones. There was a time when few readers objected to inversions and therefore poets did not bother to eradicate these faults in composition. However, times have changed, and we must now strive harder, or we shall be left behind. We have a much more widely read and exacting audience today. The more sensitive the reader, the more he will appreciate good workmanship, and the more quickly he will be offended by careless composition. Always reach for the best in your readers. Contractions, also, are character- POINTS FOR POETS TO REMEMBER istic of amateurish and _ carelessly written poetry. Don't say o'er for over, because such uses are tricks to make the meter come out even, and tricks may be fun, but they are never honest, and poetry must be sincere. The same thing is true of e'er for ever, 'neath for beneath, tis for it is, and many other contractions that are not in accepted usage today. 'There was a time when it was the style for meter to dominate the idea in popular poetry, but that style became obsolete long ago, and it shows a sort of artificiality that is displeasing to discriminating readers today. Poetry is very close to human hearts and a vital means of communication; it should be both direct and sincere. "Poeticisms" and old-fashioned words and expressions like ere and yesteryear should be avoided. If you would not use a word in a letter to a friend or in intimate conversation, the chances are that it will sound false in a poem, too. This doesn't tefer, of course, to words in a wider vocabulary than one usually employs in speech, only to style. Many carefully written poems need revision for strengthening weak phrases or lines or for smoothing sounds and freshening imagery. A real craftsman cares enough for her poem to tear it phrase from phrase and put it back together, like a good watchmaker repairing a fine watch. 373 I like to feel that my poems are true, not only in general, but in every part, having no false word or untrue analogy to mar the truth. Sometimes critics are mistaken because they lack specific information or interpret experiences differently, but a poet can develop the ability to hear an inner bell that rings when the truth is sounded and reject the comments and criticisms that do not help. If some word or phrase in one of my poems offends a sensitive reader, I can usually dive back under and come up with something that pleases both of us and have a stronger poem for the revision. But if a change does not ring as true to me as the original, I would not change it to suit the greatest critic I know. The poet is the final judge. "To thine own self be true Thou canst not then be false..." be it a poem or anything else you wnite. Books to Study New Rhyming Dictionary and Poet's Handbook, Burges Johnson, Harpers, New York, $2.50. Wood's Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary, Clement Wood, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, $3.50. How to Revise Your Own Poems, Anne Hamilton, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachusetts, $1.50. An Editor Looks at Poetry, Stanton A. Coblentz, Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2.00. The Art of Versification, J. Berg Esenwein and Mary Eleanor Roberts, The Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass, $3.00. ~~ >_> A Memory Evelyn Fyjeldsted Because of love so perfectly attuned, ~The memory of her laughter may not be A memory, but is laughter faintly heard From realms of immortality. On Writing a Short Story Fay Tarlock Graduate, Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia University HERE are many reasons why writers who are eligible should enter the Relief Society short story contest. Three of you who enter' will receive prizes and an abiding satisfaction. A few of you will discover that you like to write, a rich reward in itself. But the greatest good, perhaps, is that each entrant will have sat down and persevered until she has written a finished product. Writing a short story is a contest in tenacity. Whoever writes one has won in the struggle. In addition to this the writer has also gained a keener appreciation for the art of short story writing. Once you decide to enter the contest, get busy on your story. The idea may come from an incident in your childhood, from some mannerism of a friend, a newspaper clipping, or something that happened down the street last week. Within yourself you have characters to people. A thousand and one stories. Find the incident that will kindle the spark of interest in one of your familiar characters, and you have the germ of a story. One successful writer advises that a beginning author write only of the stuff of his daydreams. We all have secret longings. Is there one so strong in you that you desire to bring it out and give it to a character in a story? If so, you will have a real emotional interest in the character. Another writer says that the underlying idea of your story must Page 374 be that of a widely known human experience, whether it be the general rule or the exception that is as true as the generality. What you are, your fundamental beliefs and principles, will guide your writing, even when you are least aware of it. Draw from your own resources. Success did not come to Kathryn Forbes until she wrote I Remember Mama. When you have chosen your story, make certain in your mind that your choice is right for The Relief Society Magazine. You may know the Magazine well enough not to need to review the stories published in the last dozen or so issues. If you don't, read the stories carefully. Remember you are writing for a widely scattered audience of women, bound by common ideals. Your story need not be didactic. Indeed it should not preach. Let your characters be the moral force that you wish to convey. A good way of beginning is to get the material down and break it up into a rough chart, then build up to a definite climax. Sometimes an outline helps. Who is character A? What is he going to do? What about characters B and C? What are their intentions? Now write your beginning. On page one you should reveal what the story is about. Think of your material in terms of happenings. Any stimulus that does not promise some kind of con- ON WRITING A SHORT STORY flict is not a good one. When you have found a good opening situation that promises conflict, you have the beginning of your story. Don't try to tell everything in the first few paragraphs. Use little flashbacks to give the who, what, when, where, and why. Begin your story as near the end as possible. Set your characters in the beginning and let them tell the story. Description is always a form of characterization and you have only a few words to use. Don't make the mistake of telling too much about your character. Let him show himself through his words and actions. For the moment, become the character you are trying to convey. Look him in the face until you know the texture of his skin, the set of his mouth. Use his gestures, listen to him talk. How does he walk? Even if you have to shout to yourself, be your character long enough to get the feel of him. Back to your story. Arouse the reader's curiosity in the first sentence, if possible. Every happening in your story should have a good premise. Don't forget that a common device is to have the actor fail at first. With each failure he finds himself more deeply involved. Every complication must be planted, subtly. Then comes the black moment, then a new situation that has already been planted, and presto, the end. RITE your story while it is still afire in your mind. If possible, write it all at one sitting. Revise the first time for deleting unnecessary parts and fitting the parts closer together. Don't worry if your 375 first version is twice too long. You can cut and polish. When you have the story in workable shape, the events interlapping, the characters consistent, begin revising for sentence structure. You can console yourself with the fact that the greatest stylists of the ages have agreed upon the difficulty of writing a good sentence. As you revise, remind yourself that you have. Only three thousand words, at best, to use. Try making five words do the work of ten. Watch the adjectives. 'Too many of them can ruin any story. After superfluous adjectives, come the omnipresent connectives and _ sentences loaded with clauses. At the same time you are revising for words, keep in mind the sound of your sentences and making clear your meaning. You may have your story written and yet have a whole page of necessary facts you must insert. In time, you will take an interest in writing for its own sake. Your writing will begin to have smoothness and even beauty. One of the best ways to detect flaws in reasoning and in diction is to read your story aloud—to a trusted person or to yourself alone. You will find sentences that would make you blush if you were to see them printed. Begin wnting your story several weeks, or longer, before the end of the contest and give yourself a cooling period. Let your manuscript rest for a few days, or a few weeks. 'Then take it up and work it over. Many of those troubling situations will resolve themselves. Most writers meditate long on their stories before they are set on paper. 'Think of your characters as 376 you go about your daily work. The right dialogue may come while you are washing the dishes. At all times keep small sheets of paper and pencil handy. Don't rely on your memory to give you the phrase you conjured in the dark. It has to be written down at the moment. Before you start to revise, surround yourself with writers' tools. A good dictionary comes first. With it, should be a number of books on word study. By all means have a handbook of good usage and perhaps a textbook of English grammar. Writers have nothing new to write; it is the saying of it that must be new. The tool books are used more by professionals than by amateurs. Ask yourself these questions: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 1. Does the reader know what my story is about? 2. Is its underlying theme timely and provocative? 3. Have I created a single impression? 4. Do my characters seem real? 5. Is there suspense? 6. Have I aroused worthy emotions? If you can answer yes, you have done a good piece of work. Reference Books Preparing the Manuscript, by Udia G. Olsen, $1.25. Story Writing, by Edith R. Mirnelees, — ene Fiction Writing, by D. McCleary, $2.50. All of the above books are obtainable at: The Writer, Inc. Publishers, Boston, Mass. Characters Make Your Story, by Maren Elwood, Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, $3.50. I pP-o> A Song the Heart Must Sing Anna Prince Redd Love is a shimmering, mystic thing, A song the heart must hear and sing; As radiant as a wedding dress, As frail a thing as happiness. Oh, why did I not know! Gmpressions Elise B. Maness June is roses, June is laughter To remember ever after, All the myriad petal perfumes Gently blown. June is love the world expected; June is duties left neglected For the flower-laden sunshine, Summer-known, June is music faintly drifting, Sudden winging of birds lifting Above nodding clover blossoms, All spring's own.: R oses Christie Lund Coles Like frail tufts of marquisette, The fragile clouds drift in the sky; And beautiful, beneath the moon The roses lift their petals high, Their scent as gentle as the kiss Of lover on a loved one's cheek; Their beauty as ethereal as Pale