ge today. 'There was a time when it was the style for meter to dominate the idea in popular poetry, but that style became obsolete long ago, and it shows a sort of artificiality that is displeasing to discriminating readers today. Poetry is very close to human hearts and a vital means of communication; it should be both direct and sincere. "Poeticisms" and old-fashioned words and expressions like ere and yesteryear should be avoided. If you would not use a word in a letter to a friend or in intimate conversation, the chances are that it will sound false in a poem, too. This doesn't tefer, of course, to words in a wider vocabulary than one usually employs in speech, only to style. Many carefully written poems need revision for strengthening weak phrases or lines or for smoothing sounds and freshening imagery. A real craftsman cares enough for her poem to tear it phrase from phrase and put it back together, like a good watchmaker repairing a fine watch. 373 I like to feel that my poems are true, not only in general, but in every part, having no false word or untrue analogy to mar the truth. Sometimes critics are mistaken because they lack specific information or interpret experiences differently, but a poet can develop the ability to hear an inner bell that rings when the truth is sounded and reject the comments and criticisms that do not help. If some word or phrase in one of my poems offends a sensitive reader, I can usually dive back under and come up with something that pleases both of us and have a stronger poem for the revision. But if a change does not ring as true to me as the original, I would not change it to suit the greatest critic I know. The poet is the final judge. "To thine own self be true Thou canst not then be false..." be it a poem or anything else you wnite. Books to Study New Rhyming Dictionary and Poet's Handbook, Burges Johnson, Harpers, New York, $2.50. Wood's Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary, Clement Wood, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, $3.50. How to Revise Your Own Poems, Anne Hamilton, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachusetts, $1.50. An Editor Looks at Poetry, Stanton A. Coblentz, Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2.00. The Art of Versification, J. Berg Esenwein and Mary Eleanor Roberts, The Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass, $3.00. ~~ >_> A Memory Evelyn Fyjeldsted Because of love so perfectly attuned, ~The memory of her laughter may not be A memory, but is laughter faintly heard From realms of immortality. On Writing a Short Story Fay Tarlock Graduate, Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia University HERE are many reasons why writers who are eligible should enter the Relief Society short story contest. Three of you who enter' will receive prizes and an abiding satisfaction. A few of you will discover that you like to write, a rich reward in itself. But the greatest good, perhaps, is that each entrant will have sat down and persevered until she has written a finished product. Writing a short story is a contest in tenacity. Whoever writes one has won in the struggle. In addition to this the writer has also gained a keener appreciation for the art of short story writing. Once you decide to enter the contest, get busy on your story. The idea may come from an incident in your childhood, from some mannerism of a friend, a newspaper clipping, or something that happened down the street last week. Within yourself you have characters to people. A thousand and one stories. Find the incident that will kindle the spark of interest in one of your familiar characters, and you have the germ of a story. One successful writer advises that a beginning author write only of the stuff of his daydreams. We all have secret longings. Is there one so strong in you that you desire to bring it out and give it to a character in a story? If so, you will have a real emotional interest in the character. Another writer says that the underlying idea of your story must Page 374 be that of a widely known human experience, whether it be the general rule or the exception that is as true as the generality. What you are, your fundamental beliefs and principles, will guide your writing, even when you are least aware of it. Draw from your own resources. Success did not come to Kathryn Forbes until she wrote I Remember Mama. When you have chosen your story, make certain in your mind that your choice is right for The Relief Society Magazine. You may know the Magazine well enough not to need to review the stories published in the last dozen or so issues. If you don't, read the stories carefully. Remember you are writing for a widely scattered audience of women, bound by common ideals. Your story need not be didactic. Indeed it should not preach. Let your characters be the moral force that you wish to convey. A good way of beginning is to get the material down and break it up into a rough chart, then build up to a definite climax. Sometimes an outline helps. Who is character A? What is he going to do? What about characters B and C? What are their intentions? Now write your beginning. On page one you should reveal what the story is about. Think of your material in terms of happenings. Any stimulus that does not promise some kind of con- ON WRITING A SHORT STORY flict is not a good one. When you have found a good opening situation that promises conflict, you have the beginning of your story. Don't try to tell everything in the first few paragraphs. Use little flashbacks to give the who, what, when, where, and why. Begin your story as near the end as possible. Set your characters in the beginning and let them tell the story. Description is always a form of characterization and you have only a few words to use. Don't make the mistake of telling too much about your character. Let him show himself through his words and actions. For the moment, become the character you are trying to convey. Look him in the face until you know the texture of his skin, the set of his mouth. Use his gestures, listen to him talk. How does he walk? Even if you have to shout to yourself, be your character long enough to get the feel of him. Back to your story. Arouse the reader's curiosity in the first sentence, if possible. Every happening in your story should have a good premise. Don't forget that a common device is to have the actor fail at first. With each failure he finds himself more deeply involved. Every complication must be planted, subtly. Then comes the black moment, then a new situation that has already been planted, and presto, the end. RITE your story while it is still afire in your mind. If possible, write it all at one sitting. Revise the first time for deleting unnecessary parts and fitting the parts closer together. Don't worry if your 375 first version is twice too long. You can cut and polish. When you have the story in workable shape, the events interlapping, the characters consistent, begin revising for sentence structure. You can console yourself with the fact that the greatest stylists of the ages have agreed upon the difficulty of writing a good sentence. As you revise,