nder wind. Pressed Flower Pictures—a ''Desj ning'' sning Hobby Mina Hartvigsen Wright, Murray, Utah, Creates Lasting Beauty by Arranging Flowers in Frames "MAKING pressed flower pictures is only one of my hobbies," Mrs. Wright ex. Plains, "but it challenges the skill of my fingers and the reaches of my mind." The possible patterns and combinations of form and color are infinite, but all of Mrs. Wright's "floral portraits"' reveal gtacefulness, expert blending of tones and tints, as well as striking and unique contrasts. In addition to the methods used by many hobbyists, Mrs. Wright experiments with tinting petals and coloring the delicate network of veins in the blossoms. She is an expert at the exacting art of sand pressing. Her designs have won many prizes and awards, including a certificate of honor presented by the Utah Centennial Committee in 1947. Between the newspapers. For weights she uses an old anvil, a pan of nails, or any other heavy material which will exert sufficient pressure. Page 404 PRESSED FLOWER PICTURES 405 When the flowers have been gathered and pressed ready for assembling and designing into "portraits" Mrs. Wright prepares the picture frames and mounting materials. For the foundation of the portrait she uses heavy, smooth cardboard, padded with cheesecloth and covered with silk, satin, or taffeta in cream white or some pastel tint. The flowers are attached to the mounting with liquid paste. A masonite back is used to protect the picture from breakage and to seal it against dust and smoke. Mrs. Wright, in spite of being crippled since childhood, lives a full and useful life. At the age of five she suffered a fall which broke her back and from which she has never fully recovered. Very early in her childhood she Icarned to make yarn flowers and mount them on velvet and under glass. She made tissue-paper flowers; she tinted modeling clay and used it for many arts, making flowers, figurines, and picture frames. She also learned dressmaking, quilt and rugmaking, and various types of handwork. A musician and organist of ability, Mrs. Wright is also a poet, having written over two hundred original compositions. In Church work her particular interest is genealogy, and at home her large family, six sons and a daughter, make life interesting and eventful. "What a privilege is life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," Mrs. Wright often remarks, for she has found the world wide and wonderful, and she endeavors to share her talents and her accomplishments with others. Inner Resources Caroline Eyring Miner a you are mature, you will be able to entertain yourself as well as others." 'This is a wise bit of philosophy I heard once long before I understood its complete meaning. Experience has clarified it. I recall a neighbor of mine who did not seem to be able to do anything alone. If she was to make pies, she came for me or got another of her neighbors to peel apples with her. She wanted to help me do my washing and then have me help her so that we could be together. She did not seem to be able to spend an evening or even an hour by herself. When her husband and son were away, as they frequently were, she was always hatching up some excuse for a small party. "How that woman must hate herself," my husband said once, impatiently. "No, it isn't exactly that," I said, "she hasn't the inner reserves or resources that make herself worthy of entertaining herself. She hasn't developed fascinating hobbies, reading, fancywork, playing a musical instrument, writing poems, which might give her something to say to and to do with herself when she is alone. And so she makes an evil out of the fine quality of neighborliness by doing it to death." And what a pity it is, for sooner or later, one will have occasion to be thrown upon one's own resources—in prolonged illness, in living in isolated areas—maybe in sheer defense when one's neighbors have grown weary of too much neighboring. It would be well for all of us to take stock of our own resources, our ability to entertain ourselves. If we could say with the poet, "I'm the best friend that I ever had; I like to be with me," how rich we would be; emotionally, how mature. A Family's a Family Estelle Webb Thomas RS. Damon laid down the M letter and glanced around the breakfast table at the assortment of faces turned toward her, expectantly. "My goodness!" she murmured, helplessly. 'There was an instant of silence. Mr. Damon cleared his throat. "When did you say they are coming?" he inquired. "Tonight!" Mrs. Damon glanced at the letter for confirmation, hoping she had misread it, but knowing she hadn't. "Yes, tonight, the tenth. You see, the letter was delayed." "Read it again!" Aunt Janey demanded, "I don't rightly know what you're talking about!" She cupped her hand behind her ear and leaned nearer, busily chewing, as she listened. Mrs. Damon picked up the letter again and obligingly shouted, "I'll just read what he says about coming: So, I'm bringing her home to meet the family. She has about everything else in the world, but she doesn't have any relatives. There's where I have the advantage of her. Maybe a real, live family —and I do mean live, will help me to sell myself to her. "And he says she's an orphan— raised in boarding schools!" Curtis, the fifteen-year-old, said, wonderingly. "What's he trying to do, shock the poor girl to death!" "Oh, Curt!" Mrs. Damon's tone reproached him, but she added, doubtfully, "but I do wonder what she'll think of us?" "She'll think I'm a fine figure of Page 406 a man!" Mr. Damon complacently patted his billowing waistline. "Prob'ly can't see the man for the figger!'" Aunt Janey snapped, in one of her unexpectedly sharp moments. Mr. Damon laughed, goodnaturedly. "Well, Aunt Janey, it cost too much to put it there, for me to want to lose any of it!" he yelled. "See how proud Dale is of you all!" Mrs. Damon said, quickly, forestalling another comment by Aunt Janey, "I hope you'll do him credit!" "His memory must be failing," Curt observed, cynically. "I remember when he wanted to keep us a secret from his girls." "Oh, Curt, it wasn't that!" his mother protested. "It was just that he wanted you smaller ones to sort of grow on people, gradually." "Couldn't we have the twins and Mike in bed when they get here?" Natalie suggested. Natalie was seventeen and, since she was in love most of the time, thought she could understand Dale's situation better than anyone else. "Let them grow on her gradually, as you say." "But she'd be bound to find out about them next morning!" Mrs. Damon sighed. "And they're so bouncy mormings!" Natalie said, hopelessly. "We could give them sleeping pills—" Curt began, when the twins and Michael, who had been engaged in a quiet game of toast stealing while the grown-ups' attention was absorbed, suddenly woke up to A FAMILY'S A FAMILY the fact the conversation concerned them. "Jeepers!" Patty shouted, "what are we, smallpox or something? What've we done now?" "Yes, what've we done, now?" Penny echoed. Mike, hastily swallowing Penny's toast, wiped his mouth and _ assumed the angelic expression which was his assurance against accusation —just or unjust. "I've done nothing," he said, Dlandly. "Murder will out!" Aunt Janey pronounced, grimly, scraping her cereal bowl. "And Dale actually wants to exhibit these—" Curt began again, but Mr. Damon interrupted, sternly, "That will do, Curtis! If Dale is proud enough of the family to bring his girl all the way from Chicago to meet us, why should you feel so differently?" "T don't know, Dad," Curtis considered the question gravely, "there are some old adages that might explain it. 'Distance lends enchantment,' is one, and 'Absence makes the heart grow fonder, | imagine it's the latter that applies to Dale's case. Nothing could lend enchantment to our kids." "Well, as I allus say,' remarked Aunt Janey, apropos of nothing, "There's just as good fish in the sea as was ever caught." "PT HANK goodness, it's Saturday," Mrs. Damon said, rising briskly. "You can all help get ready for them. We do want to do Dale proud, bless his heart. I mustn't forget to start those rolls he asks for in his postscript. Let's see—Natalie, I'll tum the living room over 407 to you." She turned distractedly to the twins. "You girls do your room, and do it well! But first, wash the dishes. And do keep your eyes on Michael! Michael!" Mike, who had been sneaking out, turned slowly back. "Gather up all your toys, from the hall and everywhere and take them up to the attic." Mike's angelic smile faded, "But what'll I play with?" he whined. "Get outside and play like a boy!" Curt said, impatiently. "You're too big to play with toys all the time." Mike threw back his shoulders and looked every one of his six years. ""That's right!" he said, finding the suggestion good. "And you, Curtis," Mrs. Damon went inexorably on, "please shake all the rugs and hang them on the line, till we get the floors waxed." Curtis, who thought she had forgotten him and was trying to slip away to his workshop in the attic, reluctantly shuffled into the living room. "I didn't have time to shave this morning," Mr. Damon said, hastily snatching his hat and coat. "Will it be too much to hope that I can have the bathroom for a brief period this evening?" Without waiting for an answer, he dashed into the hall and, a moment Iater, a heavy thud brought the family on a run to see him scrambling up off the floor. "Where's that Mike?" he shouted, wrathfully, "he—I'll—that's the last time I'l ever slip on that thing!" He kicked a bright, red dump truck viciously across the hall. "Are you hurt, John?" Mrs, Damon asked, anxiously, as she stooped 408 automatically to pick up the offending truck. "No thanks to that kid if ''m not," her husband muttered, "and put that toy right back where it was! He'll never learn to put his toys away, so long as you do it for him!" Mrs. Damon meekly replaced the truck and looked vaguely around for Michael. He seemed to have disappeared, but she could hear the twins upstairs, loudly cleaning their room. Probably he was with them or Curt. Aunt Janey was calling and she hurried away. When Curtis had finally retreated to his attic laboratory, Mrs. Damon again missed Michael. She took her hands out of the dough and went to the foot of the stairs. "Curtis! Is Michael with you?" An indistinguishable murmur answered her. "Well, send him down to pick up his toys," she called, and went back to finish mixing her rolls and plan the rest of her dinner. At 11:30, she called Natalie, "I must run downtown, dear. Aunt Janey wants some yarn matched, and you know how she is—doesn't think you could possibly do it right! Besides, I think P'll ask Esther for her recipe for shrimp salad, it's better than mine. Fix the children some soup and crackers, will you, and take Aunt Janey a tray? And please get Michael out of the attic and see that he picks up his toys!' She hurried away, skirting the dump truck, still in the hall. T' was inevitable that there should be callers that afternoon. Mrs. Damon laughed and chatted, inwardly seething. Nothing was being made ready for the visitors. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Natalie, who had started to make her room immaculate, for Elyse must share it with her, was crosslegged on the floor, deep in old letters, as she always ended up when she tackled her vanity drawers. Curt was presumably in his laboratory, as always when he had his way, and from their shrieks and laughter, it was evident the twins were sprinkling the lawn and particularly each other. The dough for the rolls was booming over the pan's edge, when the guests finally took their leave. "Look out for the dump truck!" Mrs. Daman Called, just in time to save fat Mrs. Boris a bad fall. "I have to leave it for Michael to pick up— his father's orders." "Where is Michael?" she cried, a few minutes later, "I can't remember when I saw him last!" Feeling suddenly terribly uneasy, she ran into Natalie's room. "Nat, where's Michael? Where did he go after lunch?" f "He wasn't here for lunch, Mothet." Natalie looked up, absently. "Didn't he go with you?" "Curtis!" shrieked Mrs. Damon, running to the foot of the stairs, "fs Mike with you?" "I haven't seen Mike since breakfast," Curtis answered, crossly. "I was right in the middle—" "Oh, my baby! Oh, gracious, where is he?" Mrs. Damon's anguished cry brought the other children running. In a few minutes, sobered and anxious, they had scattered in search of him, and Mrs. Damon was frantically telephoning her husband. At six o'clock, Curtis came in with the vagrant, followed, during A FAMILY'S A FAMILY the next half hour, by the other detachments of the searchers, returning, wearily, to report failure. Aunt Janey, who had Temained unmoved throughout the entire affair, ow commented oracularly, "Don't I always say, a bad penny will return?" Michael, it transpired, had taken Curt's suggestion that he play like a boy, literally. He had wandered into the streets, joined a gang going fishing, or rather been allowed fo tag along, been dared to go swimming, and almost drowned in the icy water, before one of the boys had discovered he knew very little about swimming. The frightened boys had tried to send him home then, and Michael had been quite ready to go. He was hungry and cold and dirty. The only thing that had prevented his going straight home was that he did not know where his home was. Suddenly, he was an adventurer no longer, but a little boy, barely six, with lots of nice toys at home and a mother it seemed he had not seen for years. He had begun to cry, standing by the dusty road, rublittle face. Picked him up and was trying, at a gas station on the outskirts of town, to find where the Damons lived, when Curt caught sight of Mike's dirt-streaked face behind an enormous hamburger, and had claimed him. Curt and Mike arrived home shortly before the twins, who were almost as disreputable looking as Mike—limp and dejected, hair ribbons lost and hair flying loose. Vic- 409 tims of conscience because they had not "looked out" for Michael, they dragged in, so sure he was kidnapped and lost forever that, at sight of his filthy, smug little face, they began to howl, with mingled relief and anger, that he had made them suffer so. There were more tears from Mts. Damon and Natalie a few minutes later and a few forceful remarks from Mr. Damon before he hurried into the bathroom, declaring he was going to get his shaving over before cleaning operations began on those kids. RS. Damon was in the kitchen starting the delayed dinner, when his voice rang through the house, iritably demanding quiet. "I can't even hear myself shave in this racket!" he yelled. "Hear yourself shave?" Mrs. Damon shouted back. She was in the midst of shaping her rolls and couldn't run as she usually did at his call. "Certainly!" he stuck his lathered face through the bathroom doorway. "Didn't you know I had to learn to shave by ear? Curt is always taking the light bulb for his pesky workroom and leaving the socket empty!" Still grumbling, he disappeared into the bathroom. "Oh, dear!" Mrs. Damon despaired of making Curt hear through the hubbub. Let John shave by ear and get out of the bathroom so Natalie could start on the children before Dale and Elyse arrived. It was at this inauspicious moment that the front door was thrown open and a joyous shout of, "Hi, folks!' Here's—" followed by two heavy thuds, brought everyone, in- 410 cluding Mr. Damon, with one side of his face lathered, to the front hall. On the floor, flat on his back, lay Dale and sprawled across him, a girl who was pretty even in that ridiculous position. In the excitement of finding Michael, someone had kicked the dump truck back into the middle of the hall. Mr. Damon, looking like a onesided Santa Claus, and Curtis helped the embarrassed couple to their feet, and Dale, laughing and rather red-faced, began introductions. He hesitated when he came to the three younger ones, as if he could scarcely recognize the little tramps; but went manfully on, "And this pair, Patty and Penny, better known as the Gruesome Twosome or Double Trouble, and Mike—" "An angel with a dirty face!" Michael put in dimpling. He felt quite a hero as the cause of so much commotion and, remembering that Natalie had so designated him in a moment of weakness, thought it would help to establish his status with Elyse. "It never rains but it pours, I allus say," Aunt Janey pronounced, ambiguously, when she was introduced. With such a start for the visit, Mrs. Damon feared the worst. But the children, evidently feeling they had done their worst, were almost models of propriety. Michael did ask Elyse, earnestly, if she thought Daddy was a fine figger of a man and Patty repeated Aunt Janey's trenchant comment. Penny then volunteered the information that Mother would probably be a fine figure of a woman if she didn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 do bendings all the time, and at the mental picture of Mother's "bendings," she and Patty had such an attack of giggles they had to be sent away from the table. There was another awkward moment when Aunt Janey, chewing vigorously with her front teeth, stared balefully over her glasses at Elyse and stated, cryptically, "Well, pretty is as pretty does, I allus say. These lapses were quickly covered by the adult and aware members of the family, but Mr. Damon's tone was hollowly hearty and Mrs. Damon was frankly flustered. Even Natalie and Curt, with all the aplomb of modern youth, felt they were fighting a lost cause. Dale watched Elyse anxiously, trying to see behind her polite, smiling mask, giving the others piteous glances that begged, come on now, please show her how nice you can really be! But when the children were sent to bed, loudly protesting that it was still early, the sense of sitting on top of an active volcano somewhat abated, although there was. Still Aunt Janey to be reckoned with. Mrs. Damon tactfully suggested that the travelers must be weary and, as soon as was decently possible, everyone retired. ALE breathed a huge sigh of relef when the last good night was said. He lingered a moment alone in the livingroom, trying to get back the joy that reunion with the family usually brought. But he could not help seeing the children through Elyse's eyes. Elyse, who had never known any home, but fashionable boarding schools, would un- A FAMILY'S A FAMILY doubtedly classify them as brats and Aunt Janey as a "character." At that, the children had been tired and, for them, subdued during the evening. He shuddered at the thought of morning, when, refreshed and full of good will, they would take over the entertainment of the guest. Thank goodness, there would be a few hours respite before they must be coped with again. But he had congratulated himself too soon. In the hall, the pajama-clad twins were just completing a transaction whereby they had sold Elyse, whom they had waylaid en route to bed, a dollar's worth of garden seeds to help their "school projeck." They were highly indignant when he caught them on the stairs and tried to gently reprove them. Patty said if he thought that was bad what about Elyse washing her face in the pitch dark because Curt had forgotten to put back the bulb. And then, when he was just sinking into uneasy slumber, a terrified shriek had brought him upright again and he had realized, with a sinking heart, that it came from Nat's room. It seemed that when the two girls had turned out the light and climbed into bed, Elyse, with an involuntary scream, had jumped right out again. Down. Under the covers, where he had crawled from the pillow, was Mike's pet horned toad, Galahad, every bit as frightened and upset as Elyse. Then, between a wild desire to laugh and humiliation, Dale and Natalie assured Elyse this was not a piece of cruel mischief, but simply a love offering and proof of how deeply Mike had fallen for her, since no- 411 one else was ever allowed to touch Galahad. Quiet, like a much disturbed bird, once more settled cautiously over the house. The girls finished their desultory conversation and were drifting off to sleep when a resounding bumpety-bump jarred the ceiling directly over their heads. That Curt, Nat thought, angrily, was big enough to know better. Evi. Dently he had not gone to bed but was still working in his stupid laboratory, and had carelessly dropped something. She slipped out of bed and quietly tiptoed from the room. Why the quiet, she did not know except to keep up the fiction that Elyse was asleep. She was ashamed of making excuses. She jetked the attic door open and hissed, "I heard you trying to knock the house down and thought it was in very poor taste!" Curt looked up innocently from his notebook, "Oh, you mean when I accidently pushed all those books off the table?" "Was that what it was? I thought you'd dropped a ton of brick. Elyse nearly jumped out of bed!" "Elyse better take something for her nerves, if she's going to be one of us," Curt murmured, breathlessly. "Don't you kids ever settle down, day or night?" Dale stood at the foot of the stairs, his face strained and disillusioned. "I thought we used to have fairly peaceful nights, anyway." He turned back into his room, and the two stared at each other with stricken faces. Natalie's eyes filled with tears and even Cur. Tis' monumental calm was shaken. "IT guess we've kind of let him down," he muttered, as they crept down the stairs. 412 ARLY next morning, Dale knocked purposefully on Natalie's door. "Nat, tell Elyse we'll have to be going, if she's to catch the seventhirty train!" he called. "But, Dale—" he had gone into the kitchen, however, where his mother was starting _ breakfast. 'Mother, could Elyse and I have a bite before the others get up, so I can get her to the seven-thirty?" Mrs. Damon turned a bewildered face, "But Dale, I thought—" "No, shell be going back this morning," Dale interrupted, bleakly. "Ill stay on for a week," he added, turning away. His manner forbade questioning and, puzzled and depressed, his mother began setting the table. She had had the impression they were both staying a week and going back together. Well, maybe she had misunderstood. Elyse made a mere pretense of eating, as did Dale, and bade Mrs. Damon a subdued goodbye. Her face was as pale and strained as Dale's and they drove to the depot in absolute silence. Silently, too, Dale carried her suitcases to the station platform and _ then stiffly held out his hand. "Well, goodbye, Elyse. I hope you'll forgive me. I certainly was a fool, but it's better you found out now than when it was too late." "But, Dale—" Elyse began, but he held up his hand. "Never mind making excuses, Elyse. I know just how the family appeared to you. I think I actually saw them through your eyes. I can see how those kids would seem to a gitl raised like you've been. Id RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 sort of forgotten how impossible they are." "Listen, Dale—"' "Wait! I want to apologize for bringing you here, and for thinking, even for a minute, you could ever be happy with that—that three-ring circus—" "Dale—" "Or with me either. I'm not trying to preten