e seats are perishable, unfortunately, and long before your little rocker was relegated to the attic, it probably had a succession of makeshift seats tacked onto it. If such is the case, and there are many nail holes close to the caning holes, it will be better to fill them with plastic wood and do an upholstering job. This will not be difficult. Five yards of upholsterer's webbing, and plenty of tacks will do the trick. Fold the ends of two or three strips of the webbing, depending on the size of the seat, along the front, as close to the inside edge as possible, without danger of splitting or weakening the wood. Pull each strip so tight it twangs. 'Turn under and tack similarly to the back edge. Then attach three more strips to one side, 415 weave them through the first three strips, and attach firmly to the other side. 'The tighter the webbing is stretched, the less sag will develop in the seat. Do the back in a like mannet. Now stretch a piece of burlap or canvas over the webbing and tack down. If you can, use horsehair or upholster's moss for padding, especially for the seat. Old horsehair should be washed and dried in the sun to restore its springiness. But any sort of cotton batting will do very well and, in case you do use hair or moss, be sure to cover it with a layer of cotton so that it won't poke through the cover. Remember that the stuffing will pack down considerably, so use plenty of it, and cover this with muslin. Needlepoint or tapestry may be tacked on with small upholsterer's tacks, with matching braid glued around the edge, and caught with a curved needle and thread. Brassheaded tacks make a neat finish, too. Ruffled calico or chintz is best sewed onto the muslin cover, to make it easily removable for washing. There now, aren't you proud of your handiwork! And can't you just see Grandmother's eyes light up as she sees you rocking in her little chair? ___OoOO Oo —- --——— CARROT MARMALADE Submitted by Frances Kolarik 4 large carrots 4 lernons Grate the carrots and slice the lemons thin. Of the carrots and lemons and let stand overnight. 4 pints of water 5 pounds of sugar Pour the water over the mixture Next morning, boil the mixture slowly for one hour, then add the sugar and boil until the mixture jells. (Note: This recipe was sent to Mrs. Kolarik by Mrs. Carl Morris of Graytown, New Zealand. Sister Morris, the mother of six children, is a faithful friend to the Latterday Saint missionaries and has become sionaries. ) "a mother away from home" to many mis- Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation.. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and, after years of careful saving, she plans to buy a house on a hill. A real estate salesman, Kent Taylor, takes Joanna to see a house he has for sale. The chill air. Everything seemed different. Not just another autumn, this had a secret exciting something in it, as if the days had something special to give her. He turned up the hill that led toward the Capitol. "This is the best way to get to the house the long way around." "But I'm so busy," Joanna answered breathlessly, "besides, I have to be home by three-thirty. The children get out of school then, and you must have a lot of customers waiting." He said loftily, ""They are Mother's. Let 'em wait. Besides they are all very old, or fat, or... Anyway, this is a lot more fun." Laughter began a slow growing in Joanna, not the ready laughter she had for her children, or the neighborly laughter for Abigail's tart comments, but a laughter from Page 416 Jthe« took a deep breath of deep within, as when winter withdraws, foot by foot, and spring begins her tasks. It was like that, as though her heart had been enclosed in ice and was now breaking free. The house was an old one, but well-built. It stood high up from the street, and was reached by climbing a flight of stairs. Lawns sloped sharply to the street. The porch was in need of paint, but it was wide and long, plenty of space for Sally and Michael and their friends. The living room was long, too. It boasted a window seat. Against the east wall was a brick fireplace, painted white to match the woodwork. The floors were hardwood, recently sanded and waxed. Joanna caught her breath when she saw the dining room. It had such possibilities. Stairs ran up the west wall to the second floor; under the high east windows were shelves. The paper was beautifully patterned, green leaves and traceries, giving the effect of summer sun and cheerful shade. Joanna touched the paper with gentle finger tips. She looked up to find Kent Taylor's eyes on her and she blushed. She went on tiptoe into the kitchen, because suddenly their footsteps seemed very loud in the deserted house. There was an electric range. She turned to Kent Taylor, who leaned against the door. He nodded. "It goes with the house. There's a stoker downstairs, youll never have to carry another bucket of coal." JOANNA She looked down at her hands. They were gloved, but he must have noticed them. This morning, the coal dust ground into the skin. She looked out the back door. No blackened sheds, with coal dust marking a path to the door, but a white-painted garage and roses and lilac bushes around the green lawn, a peach and a chery tree to give shade as well as fruit. "I know it's going to cost more then I can pay," Joanna said. There was a bedroom downstairs and three upstairs. Joanna wove her dreams. She would take the downstairs bedroom, share it with Sally. The big bedroom, upstairs, opened onto a little screened porch. Penny would love that. David could have the next larger bedroom, and Michael would like the small one with the sloping ceiling. She turned to Kent Taylor. "But I have so little... Not enough. Not nearly enough." He whistled regretfully, "They are asking quite a little down." He helped her down the stairs. "But there is always a way to raise money." She said, wonderingly, "What on earth do you do for a living that would lead you to make a statement like that?" He grinned. His hair was very red in the sun, and she could sce the freckles spattering his skin. "I'm a writer... Of articles. That's how I know that something always turns up." "I won't borrow for a down payment," He helped her into the car and slid under the wheel. "Somehow I knew you would say that. You're 417 There's >) different, Mrs. Niels. Something about you. E told her about himself on the drive home. He was thirty-six, her age. Joanna stole a look at the blunt profile. He seemed so much younger than she, and there was no difference in their years. He had been married. She had died of injuries suffered in an accident. Kent Taylor ran his hands around the steering wheel. "T've never been able to tell anyone before, the horror of it. She was so young, so beautiful, so alive. It was strange to watch her die, the hot, quick life pouring out of her in the red flood they couldn't stop. It made me know what an enemy life is. Not to be trusted. It makes me realize what an idiot a man can be to dream. Dreams, fragile as china, as easily broken." He stared straight ahead. "Well, I've done. A good job of keeping a hop, skip, and a jump ahead of life. I'm never giving it another chance to get at me." Joanna looked at her worn gloves and listened to him. He spoke of places he had been. The glamorous names slipped lightly from his tongue, and Joanna could see him moving among the fabulous people, his red hair like a bright banner, his easy laughter winning friends on every side, and always that secret armor to keep out those who would come too close. She was sorry when they reached home. It was like stepping out of a brightly lighted world into a drab, familiar room. The little house seemed more battered than eVEr, smaller; the fence sagged. For the first time, Joanna knew a rebellion 418 against closing the door and donning the flat, comfortable shoes, poured out of the house to greet her. Penny, slim and cage, brought up the rear, "Did you find it, Mother? Did you find our house?" "All yours?" Kent asked. Joanna put her arms around Michael and Sally. "All mine." She saw the cloud obscure, for a brief moment, his laughter. "Crown jewels," he said, and the twinkle was back. « 'm_ Connie's Uncle Kent," he said to Penny. He reached in his pocket for the keys and held them out to Joanna. "Just ly on the head. 'Tll come tomor. Tow." Work can wait," he said. It's a crime not to see more of these autumn days." When he had gone the children besieged her with questions. Abigail came running over. "Where have you been? Orders have been pourIng in," Joanna chuckled. "All right, ''m y, "Td to own it. Itsa a home." GHE drove them up to the house. They shouted with joy at the Mere"@ight oft Site went ahead of them, unlocking the door with a She followed Penny up Penny went over to the door that Opened on the little porch. Her back stiffened. Was like a cry. Joanna went to her, "What is it, Penny?" Penny pointed silently below her where Joanna said, and was aware that Penny was crying. ée °. E her face on Joanna's shoulder. "It's so beautiful!" she wept. "Ij hurts me Inside, Makes me so full of I don't know what to call it." Joanna was silent, holding Penny in her arms. But the cry went up from her heart, from the very depths of the longing she had, to give her children happiness, Please, Joanna Prayed silently, please, let us have this house..". Jf it is thy will I most humbly pray. She stroked Penny's hair. "Tf it's right for us, we']] have it." "But it is night," Penny whispered. "T just know it is." (Continued on Page 427) Margaret C, Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governong the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. ANNIVERSARY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Amanda M. Johnston EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), PROVO THIRTEENTH WARD SEWING PROJECT ARTICLES DISPLAYED AT PARTY Left to right: Second Counselor Rosamonde Johnson; First Counselor Glenna Hill; Mary Larsen and Catherine Gauchay, work meeting leaders; President Abbie Dut. Son. The exhibit was displayed in a gay frame, surrounded by daffodils and pussy willows. Included were pretty blouses, cotton dresses, skirts, pajamas, quilts, and many smaller items. During the party Miss Anne Seilmeir of Belgium related a number of interesting stories regarding welfare work in her country. Amanda Johnston is President of East Provo Stake Relief Society. Page 419 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Alice DeMordaunt BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), THOMAS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT PARTY, Apnmil 1949 Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Merrill (now of Logan, Utah); Zada Peterson, who served over fourteen years; Sophia Christiansen, who served over eleven years; Pearl Murdock; Julia Williams; Lilly Dance. Back row, standing, left to right: Gertrude Williams; Marie Anderson; Mary Broadhead; Arvilla Stander; Alta Stander; Gladys Evans, present President. Each of these faithful and devoted presidents was honored with a corsage. The program presented a favorite song of each of the presidents and a social hour and refreshments followed. The Relief Society of the Thomas Ward was organized in 1902. Two of the living past presidents, Annie Colman (of St. Anthony, Idaho) and Melissa Murdock (who lives in California) were unable to attend. Alice DeMordaunt is president of Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lorena W. Anderson TEMPLE VIEW STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS GIVE CONCERT IN HONOR OF RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY March 17, 1949 Among the cfficers and members in this photograph,. Are: Lorena W. Anderson, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society, back row, fourth from right; and at her left First Counselor Margaret A. Moyes; Second Counselor Bernice O. Wardle, stand- 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Jessie S. Reese SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT "Such as I Have I Give Unto Thee," March 18, 1949 Seated, left to nght: Pauline Gnffin; Eunice Ravsten; Roma Low; Leone Chambers; Cherrill Hendricks; Blanche Gunnell; Mary Mather. Standing, left to nght: Wanda Larson; Yvonne Peterson; Beverly Benson; Marion Bischoff; Bessie Griffin.. This anniversary program and pageant was held in honor of the retiring presidency and board members: Anne M. Farr, Hilda J. Roskelley, Elizabeth P. Astle, Gwen M. Noble, and Emma R. Hansen. The pageant was written by Lillie P. Weeks and Mary P. Hale, depicting in song and drama the work of Relief Society during the eleven years that Sister Farr served as stake president, stressing, in particular, Welfare work. The photograph represents womanhood and the four graces, Faith, Hope, Charity, and Courage, the two readers, and the dancers. Alta C. Allen is now president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), BALDWIN PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES ANNIVERSARY DAY, March 15, 1949 Relief Society officers, beginning fourth from left: First Counselor Florence Till- — President Mary M. Thorne; Second Counselor Audrey Sessions; Secretary Lillian Wilcox. Madge P. Fowler is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423 ee Photograph submitted by Joy A. Johnson PROVO STAKE (UTAH), PROVO FIRST WARD ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL HONORS VISITING TEACHERS WITH PRESENTATION OF A PAGEANT, March 16, 1949 Front row, seated, left to right: Josephine Johnson, representing Caroline M. T. Johnson, first president of the First Ward Relief Society; Sarah E. F. Jones, representing the first counselor to Sister Johnson; Martha Jones, representing Sister Johnson's second counselor; Mary Buttle, representing Emmeline B. Wells; Eva Martin, representing Zina D. H. Young; Catherine T. Anderson, present President, First Ward Relief Society; Nellie Peay, representing Eliza R. Snow; Martha Cragun, representing Bathsheba W. Smith Lucile Clark, representing Clarissa S. Williams, Mary F. Hatch, rep resenting Louise Y. Robinson; Elva Hoover, representing Amy Brown Lyman; Blanche Davis, representing Belle S. Spafford. Back row, standing, left to right: Adleen Knight of the program committee; Secretarylreasuret Mabel Bray; Lucile Ahlander (in frame), representing Emma Hale Smith; Norma Dyer, soloist; Francis Callahan, member of the program committee. Mazie C. Knell is president of Provo Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Fannye H. Walker TAYLOR STAKE (CANADA), RAYMOND THIRD WARD RHYTHM BAND Left to right: Idelle Kenney; Lottie Graham, Annie Adams; Mabel Salmon, Zilphia Garrett; Madge Fairbanks, director, Mabel Heninger; Rae Smith, Fern Spackman, Helen Holt; Mozelle Baker. Emma Dahl, the pianist, is not in the picture. This band, organized about a year age has furnished entertainment for many. Relief Society parties and other Church socials. The "musical" instruments are homemade, and many of the tunes are either written OF improvised by members of the group. Ljsadore B. Crookston is president of Taylor Stake Relief Society. 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Hattie S. Shurtz ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), PIMA WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A RECORD OF 100 PER CENT FOR TWO YEARS President Pearl Cluff is seated at the left on the front row; her First Counselor Wyona Bryce is ninth from the left on the front row; Second Counselor Zella McBride stands at the left on the second row; Secretary Fern Alder is at the nght on the second row. Hattie S. Shurtz is president of St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. Naa? BS BS ORS tos Bs OM oe Sg si Ss OE Photograph submitted by Roberta BE. Johnson SPOKANE STAKE, MOSCOW (IDAHO) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 14, 1949 President Gwen Green stands at the center front, immediately behind the birthday cake; at Sister Green's left is her First Counselor Leona Canfield and at Sister Green's right, her Second Counselor Aleen McCowan. President Edna H. Bennion, Spokane Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Located at Moscow, home of the University of Idaho, this group is unusual in Relief Society history. Of its forty-five paid members, twenty-eight are student-wives, who exemplify compassionate service, for they help each other in sickness and share each other's burdens, sorrows, and joys, with the same crusading spirit as their pioneer ancestors. Their youth and enthusiasm, despite financial hardships and crowded housing facilities, have written a new and heroic chapter in Relief Society history." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 425 Photograph submitted by Lileth Peck LEHI STAKE (UTAH), LEHI FOURTH WARD, SIX RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT REUNION Left to nght: Julia A. Brown, first President, who was set apart in 1904; Lileth G. Peterson; Inez H. Russon; Julia F. Hunter; Velma R. Russon; Hazel C. Roberts, the present president. The social honoring these devoted sisters was held in connection with the ward Relief Society bazaar. The sisters enjoyed themselves in reminiscing of the past, as they lunched together and viewed the lovely display of fancywork, rugs, and quilts which were exhibited for sale. Lileth Peck is president of Lehi Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, GREELEY (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, December 4, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Julia Mae Kipp; President Emma Lou Bibby; Thelma McDaniel; Secretary-Treasurer Birdie Blackburn. Lula P. Child, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters held this bazaar in one corner of a grocery store: ""They are very proud and happy at what was accomplished, not only in uniting the group, but in raising enough money to finance their organization." 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Reva F. Wicker SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1949 Standing, left: Eveline B. Bjorkman, author of the anniversary dramatization, "The Organization of the First Relief Society." Standing, fourth from left, Ireta A. Page, ward Relief Society president. The dramatization, following the authentic history of the occasion, was beautifully written and effectively produced. Preceding the play, a delicious hot dinner was served to one hundred guests.: Reva F. Wicker is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN TWENTY-EIGHTH WARD. ACHIEVES 100 PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR EIGHTEEN MONTHS Front row, beginning seventh from the left: Second Counselor Grace West; President Leona King; First Counselor Addren Isaacson. Second row, at left: class leader Anna Critchlow; and beginning third from right: Stake Relief Society President Reka Parker and her Second Counselor Dessa Richins. Fourth row, at right: First Counselor, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, Erma Jacobs. On March 16, 1949, these visiting teachers were honored at a social. Miniature dolls, dressed to represent visiting teachers, and wearing the official Relief Society colors, gold and blue, were used as centerpieces for the table. Each visiting teacher was presented with a booklet containing choice writings and poetry. There are sixtytwo active visiting teachers in the ward and seven alternates. Reka Parker is president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 427 Photograph submitted by Sarah L. T. Call BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT VIEW WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Emma M. Wade (1929-1934); Eliza H. Rhess (1924- 1929); Susanna M. Johns (1923-1924). Back row, left to right: Mildred R. Cragun (1941-1944); Grace M. Williams (1944-1946); Sarah L. T. Call, present President; Florence H. Jensen (1934-1941). Of the ten presidents of this ward Relief Society, three have passed away. This photograph was taken at the anniversary party March 17, 1949. Ora Macfarlane is president of Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society. >< Joanna Professional (Continued from page 418) The days fled by. Kent Taylor d S. / came daily to call for Joanna. There | AW OCLA were many houses available, but none of them to give that feeling Sha tioner of arms held out in welcome. Y Kent appeared not at all perturbed by her lack of interest in othmr er houses, nor by the unwillingness COMMERCIAL of the owners to sell the house for AND EDITION such a small down payment. "We'll PRINTERS AND find something, Joanna, and in the BOOK BINDERS meantime I don't know a better PAPER RULING way to spend my afternoons until I have to go." DESERET NEWS PRESS "Go?" Joanna was frightened by | 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah the sudden quick beating of her —_— 428 > (> ED (EE () ED () <EED () GRD () GED (<1) SEED () ED () ED () GD ( SOME BEAUTIFUL LADIES' 2-PART CHORUSES for your Ninging Mothers.. Group The following numbers are all arranged for soprano and alto voices (SA). Beside Still Waters—Hamblen __ lS Bless This House—Brahe 16 Father, We Thank Thee—Castlea 16 The Good Shepherd—Barri _ 12 Grateful, O Lord, Am I—Roma _ __.15 I Come to Thee—Roma __ AS I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara _ 16 In the Garden—Miles 18 Lift Up Your Heads—Hopkins 12 The Lord Bless You and Keep You —in 18 The Lord's Prayer—Malotte __.20 My Task—Ashford _ 2. 12 O Divine Redeemer!—Gounod _ _.12 The Prayer Perfect—Stenson.15 Thanks Be to God—Dickson _._ _ 16 Thy House Forever—Protheroe - lg Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daunes J oes 6 SAAIN STREET SALT Med ciTy 9, hed SD) DD () DD () ED () ED () > () ED (ED () RD () Dl) DL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 heart. Why should it matter to her if Kent 'Taylor came or went? "I'm due in Denver. I'm to interview some people for an article. By the way, has anyone been around asking about your products?" Joanna laughed. "Should they? No one has. But my business is growing. If those people would just wait I would have their old down payment." "Two thousand dollars is a lot of money." "It will come," Joanna said. He turned to her, his hazel eyes probing her own. "Now, what makes you say that?" "Something secret.. Eral' "You and your faith! Strange to find a saint in this day and generation. You ought to be wearing a sunbonnet and be pushing a handcart." Joanna was troubled. "I thought you were one." "Not me," Kent Taylor said, "not since... Not for a long while." He came and took her hands. "When will you go out with me, Joanna?" She pulled nervously away. "I'm much too busy for play. Right now, I've a thousand things to do." Only to Abigail did she confide the reason. "I'd look a fright, just that old gray suit, and that older dress. My hair is a fright." Abigail sniffed. "Why don't you buy yourself something, instead of saving for that house you're not going to get? Why don't you get yourself something right glamorous?" "But we are going to get the house," Joanna said.. And spe- JOANNA [' was on Thursday that the man came. He knocked at the front door, and smiled meagerly when Joanna opened to him. He sniffed the air. "Boston-baked?" "Yes." Joanna smiled at him, he was such a nervous little man. "May I come in, Mrs. Niels? I have something of the greatest importance " He tapped his breast pocket significantly. Joanna smothered her laughter. "Come right in. I'm afraid you'll have to sit in the kitchen. I was just baking some cakes." He followed her in, moving lightly on his small, brilliantly shined shoes. He sat gingerly in the chair and put his hat under it. Joanna sifted flour and_ baking powder. "Are you in the real estate business Mr...?" "Parkinson, Harold Parkinson. No I'm not, Mrs. Niels. I'm with the William Davidson Company. We package foods... Different foods. You've heard of us?" Joanna smiled. "Why, of course, on rare occasions, when I've been feeling wealthy I've bought some of your products... Just to try." "Ah Indeed! Well, then you know that we are the makers of unusual things to eat... Or usual things with an unusual flavor." "T know." Joanna nodded. "Your advertisements make your foods sound romantic... As well as good, especially your Fresh-frozen Southern Barbecue. That was really good." She wondered what the little man was selling. "We would like to buy your recipe for Boston-baked beans, Mrs. Niels." Joanna slowly put the sifter on 429 but, Officer!" » no time limit when SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. No traffic tickets.. You park FREE on Sears big storeside lot. BUY FROM YOUR DEALER@® A Utah Power & Light Co. Message 430 Come and See Us Our store has always had a warm place in the hearts of June Conference visitors—and we shall certainly look forward to a renewal of fellowship. Choral—3 part and all other types of music GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. CUUUUORATTACSCSUOUOROTOEOROASODEDUEODOGRONTSOCDOURDIDORDOLOUDORCSUSETOOTSRAGUSLUCDEDODS OCU COREIRIOEOED Sound Training Is Essential To Success. Offers you that training in 43 departments of instruction. Character building also receives its proper emphasis. SUMMER QUARTER STARTS JUNE 13 SECOND TERM BEGINS JULY 25 Catalogues are now available for both the 1949 Summer Quarter and for the 1949-50 School Year. Write for your copies -_to THE Y PRESS BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH SOUAGHNOUDOGOOTSUOEDSOROGUODOSOUONONDOOORNUCRODSEOTOCOAESOEOUEDEONELOSOCEMENOUROROEOODESUSDRORORNEEDSS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 the table. "What did you say, Mr. Parkinson?" "Recipe... For the Boston-baked beans. Of course, you couldn't sell. The beans any more. But I think you would like the way we would put them out. Your name on the product, and a little history on the side of how you came to make it." "What do you mean, Mr. Parkinson?" She stood still, her eyes on his face. Mr. Parkinson squirmed a little under the blue blaze of them. "Everybody knows how you came to sell them, Mrs. Niels, of how you were left... In poverty.. And how a kindly neighbor brought you a sack of beans he had been given, and how you started your little business with his gift." Joanna laughed and rolled her hands in her apron. "Oh, no, Mr. Parkinson... I couldn't do that." He chuckled with her. "I rather thought you would say that. But did you ever think of the women you could help...? A lot of women are left in straitened circumstances..." Joanna stared over his head. "I hadn't thought of that." "We will give you five thousand dollars for the recipe." Joanna looked down at his face. "Did you say five thousand dollars?" "yeu. There was a burning in Joanna's breast, an aching of tears ready to overflow, a wild, sweet song within her. Other people would call it "luck." But always she would know, beyond the shadow of any doubt, who had sent this man _ to her, and why he had come. = (To be continued ) a Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. 6 Minerva Yarns 7 MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn esceceeesee--+ee---- «80€ ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread 80¢ ounce @ Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patterns - 2..----nneecceensenaceeeeee----- Ae ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me copies of the Minerva Pattern book..25c. Please send me _ ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color ' NOMme ooo once ccecccceccec cece cece eee cece cece eeeececeeceeeeeecceecesesceeensceneeneeeeeee AddreSS -.20.22. 22.22.22 eeee cee eeeneec cee eeneeeeee _ ee eer eee Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. From Near and Sar Eva Willes Wangsgaard, author of "Points for Poets to Remember," lives in Ogden, Utah, and has had several books of poems published. She has achieved national recognition as a poet of distinction and ability and has won many prizes and awards. She is well known to readers of the Magazine for her many fine contributions, especially for her prize-winning poems in the Eliza R. Snow annual contests. Fay Ollorton Tarlock, Danville, California, author of "Writing the Short Story," was graduated from the Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia University. She has had considerable experience in many fields of writing, including advertising, newspaper reporting, children's literature, critical articles, stories, and features. At the University of Wisconsin she made a careful study of Latter-day Saint history and wrote her Master's thesis on newspaper treatment of 'Mormonism'"' in its early years. Our readers are already familiar with the many fine stories and articles which Mrs. 'Tarlock has written for the Magazine. Sadie Ollorton Clark, (sister of Fay Tarlock) Houston, Texas, author of "El Paso and the Latter-day Saints;'' Olive W. Burt, Salt Lake City, author of "Young Hearts Are Fragile;" and Estelle Webb Thomas, Farmington, New Mexico, author of "A Family's a Family," are all names familiar to our readers. We have mentioned them before in this department and we shall have more to say about them in future issues. Thank you for the lovely setting you gave my poem "Of April Blossoming"' (April 1949). I am always proud to have my work appear in the Magazine, because I know it is in such good company. —Renie H. Littlewood, Brigham City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has been in our home for years and I have been Page 432 continually interested in the poetry that is contain