Officers' Meeting (Morning Session) PRESIDENT CLARISSA, S. WILLIAMS My dear sisters: I am happy—more happy than I can tell, to be with you this morning, to look into your smiling faces, and to greet you. I have nothing but words of commendation for the work which you have accomplished during the past year. I wonder, sometimes, how it is that we are enabled to go on, day by day, carrying the burdens which we have to carry in our homes and yet are able to carry on the work of the Relief Society. Each year we marvel at the progress which we have made, and I hope that you, in the stakes, feel as happy and as well satisfied over the progress you are making and the work you are doing, as do we of the General Board. We rejoice over the growth of the organization. Whenever a new stake is organized, or when a stake is divided and when new wards are organized, we feel that new workers are being brought into the field. The question is so often asked, how can we increase our membership? It seems to me that you are answering that question yourselves. You are pondering over ways and means to increase your membership and to increase your attendance. You are giving such earnest thought to the subject that you are solving the problem to a very great extent. It seems to me that if we approach people in the right way we cannot fail to interest them. Our diversified work should have something of interest in it for everybody. We are sometimes told that it is difficult to interest the older members of the Relief Society. A few weeks ago a report came to us that a woman in a certain locality had asked regarding the advisability of organizing a club for the semi-elderly women who have found that there isn't anything in the Relief Society for them—that they had been lost sight of in the scramble to get young women into the organization. Now it has never occurred to us of the General Board that there is a lack of interesting subject matter, or a lack of interest projects, in the organization. [ need not go over the work—you know what it is. You know, of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE - 265 course, that some are interested in literature, some in theology, and some in this or that. We have endeavored to arrange a varied program in order that the many individuals in the organization may find at least something of interest to them. I do not object to the women having literary, or sewing, or social clubs. I belong to a club which we call a circle. It meets monthly and it is very restful and very entertaining. But I make it a point always that this pleasure afternoon shall not interfere in any way with my Relief Society or my other Church activities. It is a side issue. Now, to say that I would join something of this sort because I felt that there is nothing in the Relief Society for me, would be a reproach upon our organization. My advice to you is to endeavor with all your might to have your Relief Society organization first. I believe you do do that; in fact, I know you do. Endeavor to make your meetings so interesting that they will entertain any woman who is a resident in your stake or ward. As for taking part on the program, my understanding has been that there are more opportunities than there have been responses. There is more opportunity to take part in the discussions of the afternoon than there are women who are ready to take part in those discussions. My advice is that you will encourage all the women, both old and young, and endeavor always to bring out, if it is possible, those who are a little backward and mo need a little special encouragement. ANNUAL REPORT Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The annual report of the Society, as read and discussed by the General Secretary, showed an increase and a development in the various activities, as well as an increase in funds. (See May issue of Relief Society Magazine for full report.) The secretary took occasion to express appreciation for the excellent work. Done by the stake and ward secretaries in connection with their compiling of the annual report, as well as in their bookkeeping, accounting and careful business methods. Onehalf of the stake reports were perfectly compiled this year, and a number of the others had only slight errors, which is a commendable showing. The secretary also expressed appreciation for the splendid cooperation between the stakes and missions and the general office. The office makes an effort to be prompt in answering letters and in getting information to the stakes and missions, and the stakes and missions in turn are very prompt in answering correspondence. There is no correspondence between the office and the wards. All letters from wards and branches (which are now 
 * very few in number) are referred to the stakes and missions for answer. A report of the correspondence of the general office for ~ 1926, was given as follows: Letters from stakes and missions, 2,000; letters from other sources, 250; making a total of 2,250 letters received; letters to stakes and missions, 2,100; letters to others, 200; making a total of 2,300. This does not include the correspondence in the Welfare Department. Reorganizations: The following reorganizations, which have occurred since last October, were reported: Ensign stake, reorganized August 24, 1926, Mrs. Irene Richards, released, Mrs. Luacine S. Clark, appointed president; Idaho Falls stake, November, 1926, Mrs. Mayme H. Laird, released, Mrs. Clara A. Brunt, appointed president; Oneida stake, March 26, 1927, Mrs. Amy C. Ballif, released, Mrs. Nellie P. Head, appointed president; Eastern States mission, Miss Elizabeth Skofield, released, Miss Dicie Brimhall, appointed president; Northwestern States mission, December 31, 1926, Mrs. Marie Young, released, Mrs. Pearl C. Sloan appointed president; South African mission, September, 1926 Mrs. Magdalene Sessions, released, Mrs. Samuel P. Martin, appointed president. »