Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Session) THE COURSE OF STUDY (Social Service) Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board "The health, happiness and efficiency of the adult man and woman depend to a very large extent upon the type of habits they acquire from their training and experiences during early life. Any information which gives the interested parent a better idea of the mental life of the child, methods that may be utilized in developing desirable habits, and suggestions for overcoming undesirable habits, may be considered well worth while."—Douglas A. Thorn, Director of Habit Clinic, Boston. 
 Owen Lovejoy, the president of the National Child Welfare Association, says: "I feel intensely that those who are devoting themselves to an effort to improve the surroundings, the conditions, the opportunities of child life, are tackling the problem of the future at its fountain head." It was in accord with these ideas of the importance of child study and care and training, both to the individual and to society, that this subject was chosen for study in the Social Service department. Dr. Wile, who has had twenty years' experience in dealing with children, and whose book, The Challenge of Childhood, forms the basis of the lesson work in this department, divides the subject into four problems of childhood, the physical, the mental, the emotional, and the social. He gives examples or cases of children who have come under his supervision. Throughout the study, he carries the idea that many of the social ills, diseases and maladjustments of adult life might be avoided if these prob-° lems of physical health, mental health, and social health were properly understood and treated and rectified in childhood. He shows how these problems have been successfully treated in the cases he cites. The general trend in the treatment of all social problems today is toward prevention. The public health programs are placing the emphasis on childhood as the best time to lay the foundation for physical health, and to prevent ill health in adult life. This is evidenced by our baby clinics, our pre-school child clinic, our school nurses, and health education in our schools. There is at present a corresponding emphasis placed upon mental health, or mental hygiene—upon the forming of correct habits, right attitudes toward life, home, parents, school, church, etc. It is thought that much of delinquency and crime come from mental ill health; that often childhood fears, doubts, anxieties, angers and despairs, are the beginnings of unwholesome attitudes. It is the individual (child or adult) with wrong attitudes who finds it difficult to make the necessary adjustments to life. Life is a series of adjustments which begin as soon as a child is born. He has to adjust to the physical world, to rules, to other members of the family, etc. As he grows older he is constantly meeting new conditions and situations. Things are always changing for all of us. We all have our adjustments to make. Dr. Wile says that intelligence should be measured in terms of capacity for making adjustments to new situations. The lack of ability to adjust causes much trouble. Tt is more difficult for childrento adjust now than when we were young. Our social life is much more complicated now. So many more desires have been created, life has taken on a swifter pace, with the telephone, auto, radio, airplane, etc., none of which existed in my childhood. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 27 Perhaps it is this complexity of life and the difficulty in making adjustments that causes so much delinquency among the youth of today. By far the great majority of the. Inmates of prisons are young people. Criminologists say that too much has been spent on cure and not enough on prevention. George W. 'Kershway dean of criminology at the New York School of Social Work, places his hope for the future on the proper understanding of the needs and the training of childhood—that plastic and formative period when good habits are easily formed and bad ones more easily corrected. The establishment of child guidance clinics is a modern development. These clinics are for the study and treatment of children whose behavior is out of the ordinary, who have temper tantrums and nervousness, who are cruel, extremely sensitive and seclusive, who lie and steal and who have difficulty in school, either in reaction to discipline or in making ordinary progress. These are all common examples of extraordinary behavior. Such behavior is an expression of difficulty in social adjustment; the child may be called maladjusted The function of the clinic is to study the physical, mental, emotional and social problems presented in these childfen and to prescribe treatment. The clinics are usually composed of a psychiatrist who is a specialist of nervous and mental diseases; a physician who deals with physical diseases; a psychologist who determines the child's mental abilities and educational requirements; and a social worker who considers the home and social factors involved, and who helps to carry out treatment prescribed. A complete study of the personality of the child is made from a scientific and sympathetic viewpoint. Dr. Wile, in the Challenge of Childhood follows the plan of these child guidance clinics. He treats the physical problems from the viewpoint of the physician and shows that many instances of maladjustments are due to physical causes. The mental problems are taken up from the viewpoint of the psychologist and we are given an insight into the mental abilities and disabilities of children which affect their ability to adjust. The psychiatric viewpoint is given in the emotional problems of children. The social problems are given from the standpoint of the social case worker, who studies the environment and background of the individual with a view of assisting him in making his adjustments. Dr. Wile warns us that he separates these problems only for convenience. The child is a complete personality composed of its emotional, mental, physical and social make-up. The aim of this study is to give an understanding of the personality of the child to those who are trying to guide, influence and assist him to secure physical, mental, emotional and social health, or to attain a mastery of the greatest of all arts, the art of living. 
 SOCIAL SERVICE Dr. W. R, Calderwood I am not a psychiatrist. I have studied mental hygiene; I have taught it approximately ten years at the University of Utah. The mental hygiene movement began in 1908, when a man by the name of Beers who had been committed to a mental hospital came out and interested philanthropic, broad-minded men in bettering the conditions in mental hospitals. As soon as they began to see the problems they began to look for the causes, which led to an investigation of the mental hospital and prison systems, delinquency homes, the problem of prostitution and other things of that sort. The first mental hygiene society was organized in 1908, and since then mental hygiene organizations have been organized all over the world. Recently, one was organized in Utah— about a year ago. I think Mrs. Evans defined a psychiatrist well ——one trained in the detection and treatment of mental disorders. _A physician who has had psychiatric training, who has spent two or three years in studying the mental problems, the mental maladjustments of the more serious type, as well as minor maladjustments, is a psychiatrist... © I am delighted to know that the women of the Relief Society are taking up this problem at its beginning. We have heretofore been working on end results. We wait until we have our criminals, prostitutes, etc., and then spend vast sums of money to care for them. I do not mean that we should not continue our efforts at the present time to reclaim those who are ill and those who have been lost to society. We study the conservation of all kinds of material; for instance, the conservation of hogs, of water power, of forests, but only recently have we begun to. Appreciate the importance of conserving human energy. The greatest force in all the world is human energy—no other force exists which compares to it. We should be concerned with the conservation of human energy and should try to check the destruction of human energy, to guide it right by beginning in childhood. I have read your text, Dr. Wile's Challenge of Childhood, as well as other books, and some very interesting problems are discussed in the book, which you have already partly covered and will no doubt complete before you take up another text. I believe that all leaders in this movement should be widely read. You are not confined in your reading to one or two books, and the more outside information you can get and bring into your class, the better effects you are going to have on the members. You should have in your home towns libraries where people who are interested in these human problems can find books and pamphlets and magazines on the subject, and you will find the young mothers RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 7S) anxious to get additional information in order to better care for their children. About 65 percent of the individuals who comes into this world are normal, about 15 to 20 per cent above normal, 10 per cent dullards, and 5 per cent feeblesminded, including idiots and imbeciles. While there are 80 or 85 per cent who are normal and above normal, there are all degrees of normality. This 65 per cent normal vary in their capacity to study different problems, but taking it for granted that 85 per cent are born with normal capacity, then what they accomplish after that depends: upon environment. What we do to develop our potential powers depends absolutely upon our environment. We come into the world without any. Knowledge, but we have capacity to learn. So the child's capacity to learn is measured by his inheritance. What he learns depends upon his environment. How many of us live up to our capacity? Nobody reaches full capacity. The brain is a plastic organ—the only plastic organ man has. If you use it right, you will continue to grow mentally; if you do not use it, you will not grow mentally. It is susceptible of modification. You may modify your course in life, your habits and viewpoints. The problem you have to deal with in the child is the child's ability to adjust satisfactorily, and the degree in which he is able to adjust and control his mental and instinctive tendencies depends upon his environment. In early life this environment is the home. His first contact is with the mother. The mother nourishes him and cares for him—he cries for mother. He does not know mother from anybody else. Some say we have certain instinctive tendencies, while others say we have no instincts, that we are born with a mechanism which responds to stimulation. We do respond to stimulation.. The child comes into contact with the mother's breast and nurses— ~ I do not care whether you call it instinct or a response to stimulation. - How a child is going to react depends upon the situation presented to him. The child's first love life is influenced by the mother more than by the father—she is his first love object— a perfect individual to the young child. Time goes on and the little boy wants to be like father, the little girl, like mother. After awhile the child begins to see other individuals who behave a little differently from' what mother does, from what father does, and he wonders if mother is the most wonderful woman in all the world, and if father is the best man that ever lived. The child thinks, "I go to visit 'Johnny Jones and I don't see his mother scolding the children and asking them to do things they don't want to do." He doesn't see them under all circumstances, and he wonders if father and mother are just what he thought. The child is disillusioned as to what father and mother are, and he begins to build finer worlds—he day dreams and peoples his world with new parents, with new brothers and sisters, with new conditions. 
 The fantasy which is an important part of the child's life should be guided and directed in the development of the child. Father and mother should guide the fancies and day dreams of boys and girls. It is natural and normal and the parents ought not to try to curtail it. Children should be obliged to do a certain amount of work, in order for them to learn to adjust themselves in the home, depending upon their age; but they will day dream and they will build air-castles and they will people these homes with new individuals, and what their parents have been may determine what they are going to put into these new homes. They put in parents like their parents were to them in their infancy days. There are two barriers to a child's progress—the barrier of reality and the barrier of authority. We abuse our authority as parents, frequently compelling the child to do things which are not, frequently, for the child's best interest, because we have not studied children. We have to earn a living, but we have not qualified to live as we ought to live in peace and harmony with the community and adjust ourselves satisfactorily and get happiness out of life. Happiness depends upon our ability to understand our companions— you cannot be happy unless you are adjusted to those with whom you are associated. You cannot associate efficiently to the best advantage unless you have some knowledge of the reactions, the attitude, the behavior of those with whom you are associated. So the study of conduct and reasons for conduct (there is always a cause behind any maladjusted situation) is important. If 85 per cent are born with normal brain power, why do so many become maladjusted; why do we have so many nervous breakdowns, so many delinquent children, so much 'shellshock in the war? Because these have not sufficient ability to meet reality— it is'too stern, too hard to meet. During the war, some of our men suffering from shell shock, which was really a nervous breakdown. Some of them had it before they were drafted. It was not due to the burst of a shell, but to nervous prostration, inability to meet the reality. We have life shock all along the line— people who cannot meet the situation, who cannot meet life's problems every day. Our great class of failures are those who cannot meet life's problems successfuly every day. The drunkard cannot meet life's problems every day—he must drink today because it is too cold; tomorrow, because it is too hot; today, because John Jones is going away, and tomorrow, because Tom Moore is coming back. Many problems come to the child early in his life and he should be trained to meet every day's problems every day—not to put off till tomorrow what ought to be done today. A child becomes efficient in life, is able to adjust satisfactorily, only to the extent that he learns to meet life's problems every day, and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 281 \ we don't find many who are doing it. The child, when he is born into the world, utters a cry of discontent, a cry of rebellion against the change in environmental condition. Before birth, life was no exertion, there were no disturbing influences, but just as soon as he is born, disturbing influences come in—cold, air, heat, light, noise, and he rebels and cries in protest, and he continues to cry from the cradle to the grave. "Mama, you help me. Father, you do this; I don't want to"—crying out in protest against reality. The child can be trained to meet situations if we begin early in life, and teach him to meet them every day. If he slights them today, it is easier to slight them tomorrow. It is important to stress this in the home before school days, for by that time the child's habits are pretty well determined. It is not a problem of the schools, or of Religion Class, or Sunday School, or Mutual —it is a problem of the home. Our greatest failure is in the-home. Parents have not been qualified as parents. -It seems to me that the sole purpose of education should be training for parenthood. We say we are training for citizenship. It is all right so far as it goes, but a good citizen may not be a good parent. He may hold important public offices and neglect his home, and you know and I know men in our communities who have done good public service, but who have been miserable failures as fathers. They have not been trained in the duties of fatherhood—they feel that they have bigger jobs—bigger problems. Have they? Have they? I do not think so. God gave us these children for a brief period of time, and we will be held responsible for our action toward them—whether they become efficient or inefficient depends upon » US parents. What is a socially efficient individual? One who can take care of his own affairs and have something left over for the welfare of the community. His own affairs include 'his home life—his family. The prime purpose of education is qualification for parenthood, and I believe our schools have failed and are still failing to stress preparation for parenthood. We have no parenthood class in schools, so far as I know. The young people would not want to go to them—boys and girls hesitate about admitting that they may some day be parents. But there should be work along the lines of mental hygiene, etc., which will qualify them for parenthood. I think we ought to stand for better training in our universities and colleges for parenthood. The schools will institute these courses just as soon as we want them. They are your schools, and if they are not offering courses wanted, it is because you do not ask for them. They will put in what you ask for if you ask for it unitedly. We should have a trained psychiatrist at the University. Many students are weeded out because of their inability to adjust \ 
 satisfactorily—not because they have not sufficient gray matter. If we had a trained psychiatrist, I think a good many of these people could be kept at the University. We have such men in eastern colleges, who try to find out the reason why boys and girls cannot properly adjust to the University, and it isn't usually from lack of brain power. Your organization should use its influence to bring this situation about in order that your children may be better trained for parenthood than you were. We ought to have a trained psychiatrist in connection with our state schools: We ought to have more mental hygiene taught in our district schools. Some of our students at the University who are studying mental hygiene subjects do not know why—they register because they need the credit. I do not care how much book learning they get out of the course. It isn't book learning that qualifies people —it is viewpoint. What is your attitude toward life and life's problems?. Buildings do not make a school or a university—it is men who are inspiring, it is men who have ideals, men who are character-builders. If a person is a character-builder and is in close contact with students, in heaven's name, do not take him out of that place and make him superintendent or something where he cannot get into contact with children. There is no greater work in the world than coming into contact with children—no more ennobling work. We pay our teachers a higher salary for supervising and we take the efficien teacher away from her work and make a supervisor of her, where she does not come in contact with the children any more. If you have in your schools someone who is building characters, keep him where boys and girls come in close contact with them and learn how to live efficiently, and do not promote him. 1 The whole aim of education and the whole aim of mental hygiene is the same—health and ability to satisfactorily adjust, and that is all there is in living. We have to train to earn a living and while we are learning to earn a living, we should learn to live. There are two adjustments we have to make—we ought to make three. We have to adjust to society, to our potential mate, and we should adjust to affinity—to God. We grow by contacts, we canot grow in any other way. The child's life depends upon the contacts in the home' and in the early environmental situation. He does not grow because of school work—he spends a few hours in school but the rest of the time, elsewhere. Elsewhere may not mean school. What are his environmental situations when he is elsewhere? You have learned something of the Intelligent Quotient. We frequently speak of the Development Quotient, too. How well is the child developing according to his age, physically and mentally? We have the Accomplishment Quotient, which is being developed now, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 283 which will mean as much as the I. Q. Or the Development Quotient. How much has he accomplished as compared with his ability? Has he accomplished as much as he should have accomplished along this particular line? A great deal of time is being spent in these scientific investigations. Man is scientifically studying himself today, which is a recent thing; and the greatest engineering feat of all the ages is the study of man. No other engineering feat is so complicated as that of learning witty man adjusts and fails to adjust satisfactorily. We ought to think more. We are slaves so long as we are ruled by instinct and emotion. We are free men only when we control emotions by intellect. We are studying this problem as it has never been studied before. It is the biggest problem which humanity ever had or ever can have—this problem of trying to understand man in relation to his fellowmen and in relation to God. I should like, in passing, to name a few social needs for our state. We need a central board which will have general supervision over all of our state institutions, where human beings are housed, such as the mental hospital, state penitentiary, etc. We need an institution for our feeble-minded, where such children may be trained to some degree of efficiency.. This is a big problem and we are not handling it. We need to train psychiatric social workers. We have some trained social workers, but not enough who have the psychiatric viewpoint. The Relief Society could not do better than to train such workers. We should stand for a change in the state school curriculum whereby mental hygiene will be introduced in the high schools at least, where the boys and girls can at least get the idea that there is such a problem and that it is their problem to solve. We should get young mothers interested in mental health. You are engaged in a great cause and it deserves your very best efforts—your very best thought. Learn to solve life's problems today and do it now. We do not always do it now, and our opportunity is now. Make this a real, live, earnest effort on your part, and you will be more than gratified 'with the results you will obtain. THEOLOGY Dr. George H. Brimhall ~ I am to talk to you today on the theme of theology. I have a little map here of preceedure, under the head of aims, appliances and activities. What are the aims of these theological lessons given by this association or society? I take it that the lesson given from the highest point of vision has two objects—major objects. One of these objects or aims is the giving of information, and the other is the stimulating of inquiry. If a lecture or a 
 lesson does not go over and reach these two objects, I think it has failed. If a man speaks and: does not do any more than inform people, he is a teller, and not a teacher. But if he arouses an interest in further inquiry he is a teacher. So the second great aim is the stimulating of the spirit of inquiry. We have about four ways of growing in intelligence. The child begins with his lips—he is an investigator; the second way of learning is by imitation—through example. The child learns to walk, not by being told to walk; he learns to talk, not by instruction, but by imitation entirely. Experiments have been performed with children who have been put away on islands and they learned to imitate the birds and the winds, but they did not learn to talk. So then the second avenue of intellectual growth is through imitation. Then we come to the third, which is the avenue of instruction—they are told either by mouth or by printed word. Then we come to the final method of intellectual growth, and development, which is through thinking. I asked a class yesterday (to illustrate between being taught and thinking) which was first in the Church, the restoration ot the Priesthood or the organization of the Church. There was a boy there who raised his hand instantly, and answered that the restoration of the Priesthood was first. I asked how he knew. He said, "I know because our history says the Priesthood was restored in 1829 and the Church was organized in 1830." That was instruction he had received. But there was a girl in the class who raised her hand and said, "He is right. I know because they had to have authority before they could organize the Church." She did not remember the dates; but she knew the answer through her thinking. That is an illustration of getting information through thinking. I asked a class what the Lord made of Joseph Smith before he made a seer of him. Well, several hands were up. A group of girls had their hands up and one of them replied that he made a good, obedient boy of him first. Another answer was that he made a student of him, before he made a seer of him. I asked for proof and they gave it to me. There was no question about that. Joseph Smith's teaching began with James when Joseph Smith read his words in the Bible, and so it went on, and the theological scholar preceded the seer. Scholarship, based on study preceded revelation. J am emphasizing this point because I would like to have you feel the importance of study. It has been the aim of these lessons, so far as I know, to instruct, give information, and stimulate inquiry—and the stimulation of inquiry is not of secondary importance. The great big aim of all the Church education is the making of Latter-day Saints. What is it to be a Latter-day Saint? It is to have all the information concerning our Father in heaven and his work—to have as broad and as wide a knowledge of the word RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285 of God as our circumstances will permit. At this stage of the game it means to have a clear, instructive knowledge of the workings of God and the ability to think about those things. The yreat problem—the biggest question we have in the Church school system right now is, can we have thinking believers? I will give you an illustration. A boy discovered to his chagrin—he was heart-broken to discover who Santa Claus was. So he said, "That is the end of Santa Claus. I am going to investigate this Jesus story." Children are inquisitive and investigative. They demand the right to think. A boy comes up and says, "We have been reading about the time when this earth is going to become as a sea of glass. I hope I won't be here—I don't want to live on such a slippery thing. Where are your forests, your fish ponds, your hunting grounds, your parks, where is all the beauty of the world?" 'The teacher says, ""What is the difference between a piece of glass and a cloud, John?" He answers, "You can see through the piece of glass and you can't see through the cloud." "Now, John, suppose we learn all there is in the earth. Did you ever see an X-ray picture?" He tells him about the X-ray and the boy reads about the discoveries that have been made, that it is possible to see through foot after foot of solid wall. "When we discover all there is in the earth, John, what will the earth be to us?" The teacher can slip in a little thought and suggest how marvelous it was that that man away off on the Isle of Patmos could tell of the future condition of the earth, since he knew nothing about the X-ray, nothing about the engineering of today, and could forecast this condition and foresee the earth becoming as a sea of glass. 1 So we endeavor in these theology lessons to give you information and to stimulate inquiry, and to arouse in you and the students in your ward classes, the spirit of thé student. It is pleasing to God to have people study. You read the Doctrine and Covenants and you will find as you go along that almost all of the important revelations have been preceded by an inquiry in the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, and others. They went to the Lord with an attitude of inquiry. We come next to the question of appliances. There are things you need for this theological work. You need a Bible. You need a Book of Mormon. You need a Doctrine and Covenants. You need a Pearl of Great Price. These are the four great fundamentals. But you will need something else. What kind of a Bible does a student need?: A student needs a concordance Bible—a Bible with a concordance in it. I am amazed beyond expression at the reluctance with which people will spend a little money for a book. You will find people with the newest sweeper and the most up-to-date appliances, with a 50c Bible in 
 their homes. We need a Doctrine and Covenants with a concordance in it, and a Book of Mormon with a concordance in it. There should be within the reach of every ward association the concordance of the Book of Mormon. See how it saves time. We put out a question. I have answered a letter or two about it. The question was, Who was the one woman in the Bible that was called great? Some of you wrote about it but I suppose the most of you found it. There is that word, "great." Go to the conconcordance. It will point you to every place in the Bible where the word "great" is, and that word will point you to the woman that was called great, and you can turn immediately to chapter and verse. Who was she? We did not ask what her name was, but who was she? She was the woman who fed Elijah. That question was put out more to stimulate an interest in getting the right appliances than for any other purpose. It had another purpose in guiding you to that beautiful story. In addition to the above appliances, you need also, access to a student's cyclopedia for your supplemental work. Away down in Arizona, I visited a home and I found there one of the teachers of the theology in the Relief Society, and she had her student's cyclopedia of the Bible, and from it she could get a wealth of information that was not given in the text. You need the Scriptures, as the 'Magazine has to economize its Spaees to the extent that we cannot have long references therein. The activities of your class: An important item is the assignment of a lesson. When a lesson is assigned that means two things. It means that the class leader expects something to be done with that assignment, and the person to whom the assignment is made has a right to expect that that assignment will not suffer neglect. Expect your assignments to be filled but never neglect an assignment. Make provisions for the person to whom the assignment is made so that it may be presented. In the order of activities, we have first the presentation of the matter, second, the questions, and third, the discussion. Do with your lessons as the Magazine is doing. Budget the time—they budget the space. Say to the speaker who presents the lesson, you can have so much time to present the matter and if you can get through with what is in the Magazine, all right, but you have only so much time. Then set aside time for the questions which are there, and also for the discussion. A discussion entered into right in the midst of the lesson or the answering of questions usually results in somebody being cut out and you have not only hurt your recitation but you have hurt somebody's feelings, and the next time an assignment is made the person feels that perhaps she won't be called on at all. So_present the matter, within the allotted time, and then you can cut vour discussion off at any time. It is to be hoped, if I understand it, in any course of study, that a teacher is at liberty RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287 and expected to supplement the lesson and enrich it. At the end of each lesson there might be a question put, "How can I use this lesson in my home?" I do not remember ever having a lesson that could not be applied to and put over in the homes. I appreciate your attention to this matter, and may the Lord bless you and help you to do what you are doing, and do it better and better and go right on and widen your field of information and tone up the spirit of inquiry among' you. LITERATURE Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board One of the poets said, "I am part of all that I have met." Dr. Calderwood has said the same thing this afternoon in other words, We have been studying during the past years American literature. There are more people writing good poetry in America today than ever before in its hitsory. There are more people writing good poetry in the state of Utah today than ever before in its history. I recall a moment of real exaltation when I stood in Scotland, on the banks of the Doon, and thought of Burns' poem "Ye banks and braes of bonnie Doon." It brought to mind all the splendid scenery that we have in this state, and I looked forward to the time when somebody would interpret the beauties of our scenery even as Burns has interpreted the beauties of Scotch scenery.. I think there is hope. If you will note the poetry that is being written in our state today, I believe that you will see that there are signs pointing to such a future. We sing in our national hymn, "We love thy rocks and rills, thy woods and templed hills," and this morning we opened our conference by singing "For the strength of the hills we bless thee." The hills are ever present to us in America, and' particularly is that so in this section. Of De country. I am going to read youa poem,,"; Those Yonder Hills," poem that has grown out of our environment: THOSE YONDER HILLS I have watched those wondrous hills Against the rim of sky there to the east, Through all the year. - I have seen the tender Spring Lay verdant scarfs of variBoned hues Across their barren breasts, And with her warm, sweet breath Coax waxen lilies into bloom; I have watched the Summer dusk Fill the wide canyons with a misty zone of blue, And touch with light, caressing fingers The tall crags, as Summer sunset flung Afar to every peak a roseate glow. And later, when the Autumn came with quiet treid, 
 Scattering her store. Of rich and vivid wealth, I've stood in worship at the shrine Of those great hills, Awed by the breathless beauty which I saw * * * And when the jagged summits Lifted high and haughty heads, Shaking the mantle which the Winter placed With patient care, to their still feet, I have seen the grave, chill dawn Arch halos of pearled platinum and yellow gold Above their aged crests; and tint 'With mauve and rose the scant, torn cloaks they wore. I have turned to those tall hills for comfort, Seen their lofty heights through tear-dimmed eyes, Which made the horizon a strange, uneven line * * * And, list'ning close, there, to my disquieted soul, The voices of those great and glorious hills Spoke softly of the peace they knew. * * * O! Mighty mountains of mine own dear land— I love you so! That is poetry. That poem was written by Gladys Ann Wagstaff, a Utah girl. I hope we shall have more such poems in the future. I wish to congratulate Relief Society workers for the initiative they have shown in enriching their literary lessons. Writing for the letters of Emily Dickinson, having Ada Dwyer Russel address you on Amy Lowell, having the nurse of Eugene Field speak to you, visiting the grave of Joaquin Miller and reading the very large number of volumes of Mark Twain is all most commendable. On the seventeenth of March Professor Alfred Osmond read from his poem, The Exiles, to a group of Relief Society workers. The author was deeply gratified and the audience greatly pleased. That sort of thing will stimulate the writing of other poems that will cast a glamour over our past. Today we are to listen to Mrs. Katherine B. Palm. She will present some material on Edgar Lee Masters. There are critics of the first order in America who say that Edgar Lee Masters is the greatest of our American poets: Mr. Masters visited Utah two years ago last month. When he returned home he wrote an article for The Nation, entitled "The American Background," in which article he said some complimentary things about Utah. Mrs. Palm is one of the outstanding students of literature in our state. She and her husband were hosts to Mr. Masters on his late visit to Salt Lake City. In an article published in the American Mercury De Voto took a fling at Mr. Masters for what he had said about Utah in the Nation. De Voto held that "Mormon" propaganda was responsible for Mr. Masters' favorable impressions of Salt Lake and the "Mormon" people. We shall now learn Mrs. Palm's version of Mr. Masters' entertainers and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 289 we Shall have the pleasure of hearing her discuss Edgar Lee Masters, the poet. EDGAR LEE MASTERS By Katherine B. Palm From the four corners of the earth great persons have come to visit Utah. Many have praised our scenery and our industry, our sculptors and our painters, our musical and our stage celebrities; for it is admitted that more natives have attained artistic renown in proportion to the state's population than has been remarked elsewhere. ' Lightning did not strike any of these who came "for to see and for to admire."' It was not until the famous author of Spoon River Anthology, Edgar Lee Masters, praised the culture of Salt Lake City residents that a bolt flashed out of the Middle West. In his article, "The American Background," which appeared in the August 26 number of The Nation, 1925, Mr. Masters said: "When the 'Mormons' were trekking across the West in search of a haven beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, the war with Mexico had come on; and the 'Mormons' were pressed into service in that war, thereby winning FOR THE UNITED STATES, the very land to which the 'Mormons' were marching in order to. Get away from the government. 'When they arrived in Utah the American eagle, having preceded them, was perching on the peaks of the Wasatchs. BUT THEY STAYED AND BUILT SALT LAKE CITY, AND MADE THE VALLEY OF THE LAKE A VAST EXPANSE OF WHEAT AND GRASS, OF FRUIT AND FLOWERS. Coming out of New England—for there both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young were born—how was it that they built a theater at once, laid at once the cornerstone of the present temple, and began to cultivate music and dancing so that today the city is excelled by none in America for intelligence and love of art? For myself, if I were cribbed and confined in some village of Tennessee, I should go to Salt Lake City rather than to Sussex or Normandy." It was this frank appreciation from the powerful pen of a great man which generated Bernard De Voto's shocking magazine article in which he not only maligned all the past and the present citizens fo the state who had had the good fortune to have been born in one-roomed log-cabins, but inferred also, that Mr. Masters had fallen into the hands of "Mormons"; had been entertained by them; and had formed his opinion of the culture in Salt Lake City from their hand-picked group. All of which is very silly. I regret the time I must consume in telling you the truth of this matter when there is so much information about Masters' literary work which would be far more valuable to you. But a statement from Bernard De Voto, a native of Utah, and himself a descendant on the distaff side of Utah pioneers, such as was published, is misleading even to our friends. 
 I affirm that no Latter-day Saint entertained Mr. Masters.: He came here under the auspices of the Extension Division of the University of Utah, one afternoon in March, 1925, and delivered a lecture in the Assembly Hall that same evening. Because he wished to see something of the city and its environs, he refused all invitations to speak at clubs or luncheons. Neither would he make any social engagements until he knew how much time he should need for sight-seeing. He wished to visit Bingham, Emigration Canyon, and if possible, Big Cottonwood Canyon. His knowledge of the Utah Pioneers and the subsequent events in the valley was more extensive than that of any other person I know except a professor of Western History. His knowledge was embarrassing to me, for in spite of my twenty odd years in Utah, I was not familiar enough with local history to answer Mr. Masters' intensive questioning. Because of a very heavy snowfall, and Mr. Masters' limited time, it seemed as if the trip to Bingham might have to be abandoned. Only a very powerful automobile and a skilful driver could plow through a snow-hidden road to Highland Boy Mine at the head of Bingham Canyon and back again in one afternoon. And the only person who dared to drive sixty-five miles over a dangerous road was the sheriff. So it was the sheriff who drove Mr. Masters to. Bingham and back, with a Roman Catholic and a Unitarian doing the double service of ballast and ballyhoo. © That Saturday evening Mr. Masters was our dinner guest; and I noticed that the tenderest spring lamb remained untouched on his plate. I suspected the Unitarian. I learned later that he had ordered liver and onions in a Bingham joint for the party. Like a good scout and an admirable guest, Mr. Masters had been a good trencherman there, and had no appetite left for my lamb. When it Had developed that Mr. Masters could spend the evening at our home, I hurried to the telephone and invited some University-and some town friends in to meet him. Everyone I asked scrapped his engagements for the evening and begged to bring along, JUST ONE MORE. Some friend who knew MITCH MILLER, SPOON RIVER, and so on. So crowded were my living-rooms that the younger men sat on the floor while Mr. Masters, very generously, read to us. Like all really great men, he was very unaffected and kind. Everyone in the presence of the poet who could see into the graves in Spoon River had the courage to be himself, and Mr. Masters responded genially to the conversation of the group. There were women present who knew many of Mr. Masters' friends in England; there were also present some old neighbors from Springfield, Illinois. Mr. Masters was interested when I told him that about half the-number of friends I had presented to him that evening were Latter-day Saints. But he did not care to know which judge, doctor, professor, engineer, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 291 lawyer, business man social acquaintance, was 'Mormon,' Catholic, Presbyterian or Unitarian. Sunday afternoon, in company with a young writer, I called at the Hotel Utah to take Mr. Masters to Emigration canyon. In the lobby I met a friend, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, who was going to his brother's funeral. We also chatted at the hotel with President and Mrs. Grant. At the Pioneer Mounment, near Emigration Canyon, Mr. Masters seemed to withdraw from us; he walked about alone. My friend made me a sign for silence. We did not look at Mr. Masters for some time. To have done so, we felt, would have been like spying. Whether he was seeing that band of weary men in search of liberty to practice their religion or not, I do not know. Unless he voices his inner vision of that day in his great historical poem which he may publish under the name of 'Atlantis,' I shall never know. But if Edgar Lee Masters does write of that band of pioneers, he will: do them justice. For he is a sifter of the hearts of men. Sunday evening, Professor and Mrs. Frederick Reynolds gave a dinner for Mr. Masters at the University Club, at which were present: Governor and Mrs. Dern, President and Mrs. Thomas of the University of Utah and several other University men and women. On Monday, we visited the Capitol, Temple grounds, and lunched at the Alta Club with a mining engineer, his wife and a friend who knew English literary friends of Mr. Masters. 4 Now, if taking Mr. Masters to see the Utah Copper Company's Camp in Bingham canyon, if presenting him to a crosssection of Salt Lake City residents at an informal gathering, if showing him the Pioneer Monument, the Temple Grounds, and the Capitol constitute "Mormon" propaganda, then with these REAL FACTS, Mr. De Voto can concoct yet another magazine article, provided the editors are still so gullible. But the very best refutation of De Voto's personal phobia is a poem by Edgar Lee Masters, published in 1924, in his New Spoon River. This was one year, you see, before the alleged seduction of the great poet in Salt Lake City. I shall quote a part of this poem 'Meredith Phyphe: "Come now, you supercilious detractors of America As a land of aridity, without stories and myths, Without romance, without epic material: Did not Brigham Young found as good a religion as Henry VIII? And build a greater city?" Possibly no other writer in America has had so much written about him this past year as Edgar Lee Masters. The most critical magazines, The American Mercury, and The Century, published last December long articles about him from the re- 
 spective pens of Benjamin De Casseres, and Carl Van Doran. The New York Herald-Tribune, also, in December, contained a long article by David Karstner in which he reviewed his acquaintance with Mr. Masters when he was the law partner of Clarence Darrow at the time of his publication of Spoon River Anthology. This book, in 1920, had the circulation of eighty thousand copies, an unheard of success for poetry. It has been voted one of the ten greatest books in the last hundred years. Some facts about Spoon River will enable you to understand why Masters stands out so eminently in American Literature and why English critics rate him so highly as a great poet. Spoon River Anthology is NOT in line of descent of any previous book, American or otherwise. It is not the story of the village, but it is the village used to make a universal picture. Through his law practice Masters grew to know types and came, through his social contacts, to compare characters.. The plan of making a portrait of life everywhere in America, and through this to trace the streams of liberalism, and conservatism, democracy and aristocracy, and to show as many tragedies, or comedies of life as he had characters. Spoon River is his life since it came to him through what he had seen and lived." In Benjamin De Casseres articles, in the December Mercury, Masters is discussed under the heading, "Five Portraits of Galvanized Iron." In this article the critic says: "IT do not know of any poetic fiction that gives me such an odor of reality, such a raw, rank taste of broken hearts and battered brains, such a sense of inexorable fatality. Masters does not describe, he creates, and his only ethic is the ethic of all great creators, pathos and irony, which are explicit in the picture he evokes like overtones between the lines. "The formula of Masters is the formula of life itself. His creations rise from their graves as we rise out of the womb, tell their story, as we enact ours, and then return to their sleep, as we shall return to ours. * *; "The Spoon River Anthology is one of the most original pieces of imaginative literature that I know of. Implacable ironist and realist, Masters, Prospero of a Middle Western graveyard, struck with the wand of creation upon the lidded skeletons of the dead and made them tell, (as all things must out) their secrets to the world. "Yoricks, Hamlets, and Ophelias, Hulots, Cousin Bettes and De Rastignacs, Quilps, Micawbers and Lady Deadlocks, Bovarys, Moreaus, and Saint Anthonys, Raskolnikoffs, Karamazoffs and Bazaroffs, Romeos, ° Don Quixotes and Long John Silvers, Lorna Doons, Becky Sharps, and Maud Mullers exist externally in flesh and blood wherever a thousand people live and weave and interweave their passions, dreams, loves and ambitions. They all live in Spoon River under the names that Masters has given them, and his great art consists in portraying their lives, their tragedies and comedies, and the vast inutility of it all, in the most con-- densed and vivid form conceivable. "T know no man who has put so much into so little as Edgar Lee Masters: has in Spoon River Anthology." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ESS I am so sorry I shall not have time to read you something from both Spoon River and Doomsday Book, or to tell you of his novels of pioneer life. His novels are of especial interest to us. For he knows so well how to use historical material. His latest novel, Kit O'Brien, is just off the press. The cover on this book relates that it is a marvelous story of the magic boyhood and has the charm of people who have passed on. Kit O'Brien has two distinct qualities: literary and social. The prose in this book equals that of George Moore's; and since the idiom is purely American, it is a valuable record of our own speech. To you women the problem of the boy who stole a piece of pie will be interesting. For your society has succored a goodly number of children from the jeopardy of courts. I know, since I have obtained your aid for myself. Had I not studied the social treatment of crime in Chicago University and visited the very institutions so graphically described in the story, I should not | dare to introduce this sociological phase. I might have thought it exaggerated. This novel is the best study of our own responsibilities as citizens. You should not fail to read it for its wholesomeness as literature, its profoundity as sociology. Lest I frighten you with this sociological comment, I better add that you won't discover the sociology while you are reading the book because of the author's genius. It is THE STORY first, and last. And all the time that will hold you.- ' My favorite poems in Spoon River are: "Fiddler Jones," "Anne Rutledge," "The Hill," "Robert Fulton Tanner," "Editor Whedon," and "Archibald Higbie." De Voto's own experience in Harvard as he related it in his article, places him in Archibald © Higbie's dilemma: ARCHIBALD HIGBIE I loathed you, Spoon River. I tried to rise above you, I was ashamed of you. I despised you As the place of my nativity. And there in Rome, among the artists, Speaking Italian, speaking French,; I seemed to myself at times to be free Of very trace of my origin. I seemed to be reaching the heights of art, And to breathe the air that the masters breathed, And to see the world with their eyes. But still they'd pass my work and say: "What are you driving at, my friend? Sometimes the face looks like Apollo's, At times it had a trace of Lincoln's." There was no culture, you know, in Spoon River, And I burned with shame and held my peace. And what could I do, all covered over 294 REGGEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And weighted down with western soil, Except aspire, and pray for another Birth in the world, with all of Spoon River Rooted out of my soul? In the New Spoon River: "Meredith Phyphe," "Howard Lamson," "Angela Sanger," "Conrad Herron" and "Gottfried Fruchter."; "Silence," from Doomsday Book is now included in his volume of Selected poems, published 1925, as are selections from Spoon River, old and new, Songs and Satires, and his other various volumes of poetry. The 1926, Selection of Best American Verse, for that year, contains his marvelous poem, "Contentment," which, I believe, was first published in the Mercury. Now if you are afraid of life, do not read Masters at all. He will not soothe you. But if you want to know what great poetry is, what irony and pathos can do for you, how you can develop your own soul, then read Masters again, and again, and yet again.: