General Session (Morning Meeting) PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS I am sure we are very. Pleased indeed that our lives have keen spared. That we are here to meet again to celebrate in a way the eighty-fifth anniversary of. The organization of the Relief Society. There are gray-haired women here—many of them whose mothers perhaps were among the charter members of the Society, or at least who were members in Nauvoo. And voung women whose erandmothers and great grandmothers have been identified with this great organization since the beginning of it. And J am sure we are just as delighted with the organization today as they were when, through the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith, it was effected. We are endeavoring to carry on the sacred trust that was given to them at that time. I believe that probably we have enlarged on some of the things that the Prophet mentioned and on some of the subjects that the members themselves thought of, until, as day by day passes and as year by year passes, we are improving and advancing. A portion of this morning's meeting will be given to the subject of Civic Pride. Mrs. Louise Y. Robison of the presidency of the Relief Society is the chairman of that committee on the General Board. You all know that in your stakes you are working with your civic authorities to make of your towns morebeautiful places than they have ever been. In line with that, we have asked —<—————— << RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295 some experts to come here this morning, and they have very graciously come in order that they might help you, probably, with a few hints in regard to that work. COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON From all over the Church we have had the most splendid reports of the civic pride work that the women have begun in their stakes. Even before we started this as a teachers' topic, there were a few fine pioneers in the stakes who had already done a marvelous work. We are gratified that these are continuing in their work, and we welcome the stakes who are beginning to take up the work. It is not anything unusual. Your women have succeeded in this because in almost every department of civic and social uplift, women's organizations have been mainly responsible for that uplift. In the establishment of juvenile courts, in the white-slave traffic, in the laws for betterment of women in industry, in more sanitary workshops, in the establishment of © homes for childfen—all of these have been brought about largely by the influence of organized women, so we are expecting that this new branch (if it is a new branch) will succeed. The standards of any home are largely the standards of the women of that home. You will find an example of this out in barren places, out on the desert where there is no water to make shrubs and trees grow—you will find a woman of high standards in this desert place who cheers the passerby with fresh curtains and | a well-swept yard. The women are not only the standard-bearers of the home but of the community. The Relief Society women have studied home sanitation and beautification and the: majority of the homes of the Latter-day Saints are beautiful. The greatest menace of all is the person of low ideals. Six or eight homes in any community may be kept scrupulous, but if the seventh home is not kept sanitary, if there are breeding places for flies on the premises, if there are tnsanitary conditions, if there is carelessness about quarantine regulations, you can see 'this home is a menace to all of the people, and the whole group cannot be any more beautiful or any safer than the home surrounded by these conditions. There is a line or two in Kipling's jungle verses which says, "The strength of the wolf is the pack. But the strength of the pack is the wolf.""' Thomas Nixon Carver in commenting on this says, it is a desirable wolf who will subdue his personal development for the good of the group. We feel in our communities it is the good 'citizen who works for the group as well as for the individual. In uncivilized countries—even in our own Bible histories we have instances of people who were a menace to the community and who were cast out of the community—the leper, the mentally ill, or the criminal, were cast out; but in this day we are trying to 
 elevate the individual to the standards of the group. Among the instructions given to the Relief Society at the organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith, were these, that we were to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. There is no way that we can assist in correcting the - morals and strengthening the virtues better than in removing the causes that produce delinquency. So there are three things that Relief Society people are called upon to see about—the beautification of the home, the sanitation or health of the community, and these two form the third one, improving the standards of the community. In a survey made not long ago in New York, the captains of the police force were called in and asked in what district of the great city of New York there was the most trouble with boys, and invariably it was in the places where these poor children had dirt and disorder and squalor. Such conditions not only cause discomfort but they breed evil thoughts, and so when we assist in cleaning up all such conditions we are improving the morals. There is no great hardship being put upon the Relief Society by this work because in the organization it can so easily be cared for. Also in the survey in New York it was found that if children were organized, if they had recognition for their work and knew that the work they did would bring honor to their organized group, they were willing and eager to help. If they received honor for picking up rubbish and cleaning up yards, that was just as much of a stimulant to them as receiving rewards in the other ways. The trouble we have had in our organizations is that we have asked this as a form of labor of our children, instead of as a means of reward or merit. In our organizations, with our Relief Society members visiting every home in the Church, a great deal can be done by encouraging the women to plant and exchange slips, and by making a community affair of this work, and organizing the people on a street or in a given district to further the work. The boys and girls may be organized and have their own lieutenants and captains, and report conditions regularly of their certain district. If it could be competitive so that the boys and girls on the one side of the street or in one section could compete with the others, and know that their work was being recognized, it would be a very helpful thing. If boys and girls were called and organized or allowed to organize for the work themselves, or if the Primary children or the Religion Class children, under the supervision and direction of some of our fine, well-trained Mutual boys and girls could be interested, the work could be carried on without a great deal of effort. If the boys and girls work and help to beautify the ward, let them and their work be recognized before the assemblage of the Saints. That it would have a moral effect it seems to me is shown by the record of the Boy Scouts. In one eastern city where there are over fifty thousand Boy Sccuts, over RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297 a period of sixteen years only five boys out of the fifty thousand have come under the effects of the law. I was in a town in southern Idaho a few years ago where the mayor of the town had had pride enough to have one side of the street paved, but it was in the fall of the year and we could not walk on that pavement because the weeds were so high on either side they would snag our dresses. I believe that if boys would be properly organized and made to feel that there was honor in it and credit for them, that they could very easily and with great pleasure have removed those weeds. 5 Children must work in groups, and the thought that we want to give is that boys and girls would find just as much pleasure in taking care of a flower or a vegetable garden or removing weeds as they would have in breaking windows and branches off the trees. One is constructive organization and the other is destructive gang work. If the mothers of the community, if the Relief Society women, lead the boys into constructive work groups, it will do away largely with our destructive gangs. There is a little book published and if you have not read it, IT wish you would read it. It is called the Land of the Biue Flower. It is a story you can tell to your children. It was the lew in this mythical land, and the king proclaimed it, that every man, woman and child should plant the seed of the blue flower. They could not cultivate a blue flower with dirt and rocks and so the people cleaned up their yards so the blue flower would have a hetter chance, and the whole land was made beautiful. They would talk about their blue flowers and inquire about how they were succeeding instead of idly gossiping. Every man, woman and child, even to the new-born baby (whose mother was instructed to hold its hand and plant its flower and talk to it about the flower) were required to plant the blue flower. Now, if every man and every woman and every child to the new-born babe in all of our communities would plant one flower, you see we would have beautification of homes, we would have sanitary conditions through removing all the unclean things that would detract from this, and in doing that we would improve the morals. We will save the lives of many children and grown people by having the breeding places of flies removed, and in that way we will be carrying out the instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith that we assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. SANITATION IN OUR COMMUNITIES Mr. L. H. Male, Sanitary Engineer, Utah State Board of Health The Clean-Up, Paint-Up and Plant-Up Campaign offers a wonderful opportunity to improve the sanitation of every com- 
 munity, for it affords not only an excellent opportunity for arousing interest in community cleanliness, but builds up a wholesome community spirit. Almost every community is lacking in sanitation, upon careful examination, and this fact is being realized more and more in every community in Utah. The campaign should not be confined to the cities alone, but should include the communities in the rural sections. It is difficult to imagine anything that is more depressing mentally, physically and spiritually than unpainted, unattractive homes. The unpainted dwelling is always an eye-sore. The unkempt yard or street has a deadening effect on even the spiritual life of a family or a community. The child who is taught to see and to have beautiful things has a nobler life before him than the child who lives amid dirty and untidy surroundings. A dirty town is a backyard town. Its influence is demoralizing upon business and upon physical and mental activities. It is well nigh impossible to create prosperity in a dirty community, just as it is well nigh impossible to develop a higher or aesthetic side of life amid dirty surroundings. One reason why good roads and clean streets are of such vast financial benefit is that they stimulate cleanliness of homes, cleanliness of yards. It costs more to be dirty than to keep clean. Consider the toll of disease, fire and depreciation through filth, disorder and neglect. Paint a neglected back yard or vacant lot with the green of grass or shrubbery, or publicly commit it to any other useful purpose and it will not revert to its former disorderliness. Otherwise it inevitably and speedily will do so. Therein lies the reason why the clean-up week spasm has been and is being so generally superseded by these real campaigns in which each community is organized into the well-ordered conduct of a program embracing all the various phases of continued effort that makes a city not only clean but beautiful, and" not only makes it clean and beautiful but keeps it so. The era of Clean-Up Day is past, the idea of Clean-Up Week is passing, and the spirit of Clean-Up and Keep-Clean throughout. The year is here. Civic pride and pride in the home demands clean, sanitary surroundings and a progressive plan for improvement and beautification of the home and community. There are two objectives of the campaign. First, to improve sanitary conditions with a view of promoting the public health; and, second, beautification of our homes and communities with an aim of making our surroundings more attractive and comfortable. Such a campaign should invite and justify the whole-hearted support of the citizenry. Our cities and towns are growing so far as population = wealth are concerned, but these should not be the only things that concern a city. Should it not grow in beauty, in the things RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299 that make life more worth living; in facilities for recreation, in social activities, in those things which uplift the spirit; and, especially, should it not grow in the promotion of health and the reduction of the death rate? The spirit of America is not alone for bigger things and more things, but it is especially for better things. That really is the "great unrest." The people want better things. They are not satisfied merely to see the city grow large in population and business. They want it to grow also in those things which make life more pleasant and more free from 'sickness and from distress caused by loss through disease and epidemic. Everywhere there is this demand for these better living conditions. Many do not realize that they can produce these conditions for themselves if they will only work together to get them. Any city or commitnity can be healthful and beautiful and a desirable place to live in, if its citizens will pull together to make it so. What is needed is cooperation and unity of effort on the part of all, in the following of some particular and practical plan. This plan already exists in many Utah towns. It has been worked with great success in many American cities. It can be worked successfully in every Utah community. The plan which literally transforms cities is the Clean-Up, Paint-Up and PlantUp Campaign, which is state-wide in its scope and which this year is doing its work in thousands of cities and communities throughout the nation. It cleans the streets and alleys, cleans the back yards and basements, cuts the weeds and carts away the cans and refuse from homes and vacant lots, clears away the refuse heaps and manure piles, where the deadly house fly breeds, ' and the pools where the mosquitoes propagate, plants lawns and shade trees, enforces the milk and food laws, and paints up everything in nature's coloring with grass, shrubbery, flowers and trees. Flies breed in refuse. When refuse is destroyed the fly finds no happy home in which to establish a'family. Likewise the mosquito breeds in every little bit of stagnant water he can find. Where there is none the mosquito crop is cut short. Tin cans and any other sort of rain receptacle in a back yard or a vacant lot make the ideal mosquito breeding places. The Clean-Up-Paint-Up Campaign removes the refuse from the back yards, cellars, alleys and vacant lots, reduces tremendously the number and activity of these disease-spreading agents. Not "swat the fly" but ''remove the refuse" is the right slogan for fly extermination. This campaign creates more sanitary and healthful conditions, reduces sickness and loss of employment, adds to the joy of life because of more beautiful surroundings, increases the value of property, reduces fire losses and insurance premiums, creates new pride. In the city, and a new civic spirit which will lead to further civic enterprises. This great idea would never have proved its power but for 300; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the women and their love of cleanliness and beauty, their public spirit and their practical energy. They appreciate the City Beautiful, for clean streets bordered by shade trees, well-kept yards with lawns and flowers appeal to them. This innate love of cleanliness and orderliness has made women the most aggresive organizers and workers. Women's clubs have supplied some of the most zealous and successful managers of campaign details. In many cities where this campaign is an established institution conducted regularly from year to year, its steady, continuous inspiration comes from the women. They hold the initiative and keep the men's organizations and the city authorities starting new features of the work, For that reason this campaign with its means for arousing community cooperation finds in them its most earnest promoters. Women give considerable time to local civic matters and in making living conditions better in their home cities. They have sturdy organizations through which to work, and a wide comprehension of their duty to the public welfare. _ All these have added tremendous stimulus to the women's participation in this great campaign, and it is not the civic pride or the love of the beautiful alone which impels them in this. Even more than the men, they appreciate its sanitary and health features. It is they who have to guard the health of the little ones at home. [or this reason they are more alert to the menace of the fly and the refuse heap. The protective instinct in women prompt them to take a leading part in making their community healthful as well as attractive. Health is not the only reason for the campaign. The clean city is the beautiful city, the attractive city, and therefore the prosperous city. Just as it is necessary for an individual to keep himself clean (and his clothing looking well) if he wants to be well received and do business, so it is necessary for a city to present a clean and attractive appearance. The great idea is to get the people to go into this campaign through a spiritually awakened loyalty to their town, as much as for the benefits in health and living conditions. "Goodbye, dirt! Goodbye, rubbish!" should be the topical song to be heard in every Utah town and community. And, to speed the parting guest, every Utah householder will have on hand the most powerful weapon—next to Mrs. Jigg's rolling pin— the Great American Broom. Soon, by the alley route, many of the unwelcome visitors will be on their way. No city or community can be considered sanitary if any part of it is in an unhealthful condition. Health, your health and your family's health, and your neighbor's and his family's health is at stake. So Clean-Up, Paint-Up and Plant-Up Utah. We did wonderful things as a nation at the time of the late war. Probably our nation has more vigor and initiative and creative power among its people than ever before, once we look RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301 upward. Now let' s turn this great force into making living conditions better, in making life pleasant and more free from sickness and sorrow. If we put into this effort but half the zeal and determination that we devoted to making the world a "fit place to live in" we shall soon have the most beautiful, healthful communities in the world. We ought to have them, we have the intelligence, the appreciation of good things. All we need is the cooperative spirit, the ability to work together democratically for the common good. With this spirit the Clean-Up, Paint-Up and Plant-Up campaign can be made-a wonderful success, the communities can be made more beautiful and prosperous, theamount of sickness and death can be appreciably reduced, and everyone can be happier in the fuller enjoyment of his life, his work and his play. There would seem to have been, and rightly so, a somewhat strong prejudice against flies as remotely as the time of the fourth plague of Moses when there came a grevious swarm of flies into the home of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses, and into all the land of Egypt. The land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies. From time to time since this date, various authorities have connected swarms of flies with epidemics of -various kinds, or with unhealthy conditions. Until recently very little trouble was taken to procure definite evidence in regard to their relationship to disease. 'Today, information dealing with the disease-carrying possibilities of the house fly has been published, and interest in the subject has spread to all parts of the world, so that within a few years information relating to the connection between house flies and the spread of various infectious diseases will be known. Up to the present time the following facts have been definitely ascertained: the larvae of many species of flies breed in human and animal excreta, or decaying animal and vegetable matter, and the adults frequent these substances and often feed upon them. Flies are therefore an indication of the presence of such unsanitary substances in the neighborhood of the houses in which they occur. They carry both in and on their bodies the putrefactive and fecal bacteria acquired from the substances on which they feed and also carry many of the disease-producing species. It is scarcely necessary to point out that flies can only act as carriers of disease germs after they have come in contact with suitably infected materials. Typhoid fever, infantile diarrhea, and many other diseases, are spread by these house pests. Typhoid fever is probably the best known of these diseases. About 14,000 people die from it every year in the United States and ten times that number suffer from it but recover. It is carried by bacteria contained only in human filth and a case of typhoid fever is a 
 certain indication that such filth or contaminated material has been swallowed. The importance of the fly as a carrier of disease is great. Examinations of flies have shown them to carry many kinds of pathogenic bacteria, most of which are transported on the hairs which cover the feet, legs, and body of the fly. Disease is spread largely by flies feeding or walking, when smeared with filth, on food or on dishes that later are used for holding food. It is probable that the fly, along with the open-back privy it frequents, is responsible for much of the typhoid and dysentery in our towns and cities. Probably the'persons taken ill are but a fraction of those who partake of contamination through the medium of the fly, but who escape through natural resistance or for other reasons. In Utah, the typhoid death rate has been reduced from approximately fifty per hundred thousand to between four or five per hundred thousand, by increased sanitation, improvement of water supplies, and the proper disposal of bodily wastes. We have long realized the need for proper sewerage disposal in the rural sections, and in unsewered sections of cities. He filthborne diseases, recognized as among the important health problems of the day, thrive with unsanitary conditions and practically disappear with the proper disposal of body wastes. Sewage disposal may be reckoned as much a health necessity as a convenience, and the term should be broadened to include the disposal of human wastes in the rural sections, as well as in the cities. The difficulty of fighting these filth-borne diseases is found in the condition of country life and the absence in most rural localities of any authority to watch over the health of the community, the ' scarcity of money for health work, the lack of interest in sanitation and the difficulty of convincing the average individual of the value of health work. The solution of the problem of these diseases is the sanitary disposal of our bodily wastes. It must be brought: home to everyone that the cost of preventing disease is less than the cost of sickness, and that such prevention can be accomplished in regard to filth-borne diseases only by the proper means of waste disposal. What can be done in the reduction of disease by the construction of adequate sewer substitutes, and by educating and interesting the people in sanitation has been demonstrated many times. As far back as 1909, Richmond, Virginia, installed a sanitary type of privy at every home not reached by sewers. In 1908 there were 57 deaths from typhoid fever, in 1909 there were 28 deaths, and practically every year since there has been a reduction. Any method of disposal, if it is to be effective in the reduction or elimination of disease, must prevent: a. The access of flies to the excreta, b. The access of animals to the excreta, c. The scattering of the waste over the surface of the ground causing soil pollution, artis: nami dm @ eee RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303 d. Ground water pollution, or the contamination of springs, irrigation ditches, etc. The sanitary and health protective values wil) depend almost entirely upon compliance with above conditions. Cooperation in warfare on rats in the campaign is particularly important and cannot be too strongly urged. A pair of rats breeding uninterruptedly and without deaths would at the end of three years (eighteen generations) be increased to 359,700,000 individuals. It destroys by polluting ten times as much as it actually eats. It causes disastrous conflagrations. It damages foundations, floors, doors, and furnishings of buildings. BEAUTIFIGATION OF COMMUNITIES Mr. Emil Hansen, of Utah Agricultural College Through the Agricultural College, extension division, we have a landscape department. If I understand correctly, the Agricul- ~ tural College of Utah was the first institution to have a specialist in the field and I am here to tell you this, that Utah is in the lead so far as beautiful homes and beautiful communities are concerned. Utah is also known to have the best organizations in improvement work that there are in all the United States. I know what I am talking about because I visited headquarters in Washington, D. C., last summer and I have their report for it. We have sixty-four communities in eighteen counties in which we have charge of beautification, where planting is being done. When I met with people in Washington, there were some there from Kentucky and South Carolina and they asked me to say something about Utah. They wanted to know immediately how it was that Smithfield could make such a wonderful transformation in so short a time. I did not know there was anyone in Kentucky who knew there was a Smithfield in Utah at all. They asked how we could do it, especially since there is only one landscape specialist with our state college, while in some states they have three, and they had twelve demonstrations and we had one hundred ten. J told them the credit was not due to myself at all. I told them the reason is that in Utah I have a chance to work through an organization— the "Mormon" Church, that every meetinghouse throughout the state is open for me to bring my message. No matter where we travel in this world, no matter what state we are judging, the people of the community are judged by the outside appearances. You are judging the culture and refinement of the people in every part of the country that you travel through. When you travel through this beautiful state from one end to the other, you are judging, and you will say that there are people of culture and refinement in this community or in that; or you will say there is a lack in another place, where everything 304 RELIEF mcs MAGAZINE is neglected, and tin cans, etc., are not taken care of. Where a community is planted—where the homes have lawns and shurbs and flowers, you can see that they are people who are enjoying life. You judge every community by appearances, just as you judge the individual by outside appearances. A home is an expresison of the culture and refinement of the people who live therein. We are aiming to put a soul into the home when we plant it with flowers, shrubs and trees. Putting a soul into the home may be a strong way of putting it, but there is a soul to the home and there seems to be many, many homes without a soul. No matter what we have in this world so far as money is concerned (money is a cold substitute for love and comfort), no matter where we travel, our thoughts are constantly going to that one particular spot on this globe called home. No matter where your boy or husband is, his thought is of that place called home and it is the center of the universe to him. We are trying to beautify the homes which will help to create and build character in the young generation. We are trying to teach discrimination between the real and the unreal—between real art and jazz, which is taking the country all over at this time. I am out all the time doing this landscape work and I find some places where the work is easily accepted, and there are other places where it is very hard to get the people interested. I claim that the reason for this difference is the environment in which the people have grown up. In some places they have real art exhibited in the court houses, in the high schools and so on, and I can assure you that in these places you can find an open mind— children there are quicker to notice anything that is beautiful; that is stimulating. They are open for the suggestions we have, and many, many hundreds of trees and thousands of shrubs are being planted at this particular time. As I said before, we are trying to learn to discriminate between the real and the unreal. J would like to call your attention to the fact that any time you see flowers like these you have here, it is an inspiration. If they had been a bunch of paper flowers, would it have been the same thing? Yet some of us are having paper flowers in our houses and are trying to deceive ourselves into thinking we have something that we have not. You would never take paper roses to the hospital to a sick friend. I feel the same with regard to wax fruit or anything else that is not real. Let-us try to get the real things. Three real poppies in a small glass are beautiful, but a whole lot of paper poppies don't mean anything. Just a touch of the real thing counts. There isn't anything you could do for a sick friend better than to bring. A few real flowers—-a token of love and friendship from you. I have been sick two or three times and nobody ever gave me flowers. I stippose it was because we had greenhouses and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305 flowers of our own. But I can tell you if the neighbor's children had gone out and picked some daisies on the wayside and said, "These are for you," it would Ihave been a great thing. 1 happened to say that one time in a meeting and my wife was there, and jfor the first time in my life I got a box of roses for my birthday. The work that is being done in the state for beautification under our direction is done through cooperation. We have rea) cooperation. That is exactly why people look to Utah because we have cooperation that we cannot find anywhere else in America. Due to the' plans of the "Mormon" Church, the people in the farming districts settled in groups. In the east, the farms are very far apart and they can't organize as we can here where farms are in communities. Such organization in settlements has helped us wonderfully. Take Smithfield for an example: we were going to clean up the cemetery and level the ground and put in lawn, etc. The mayor declared a holiday, the bishops called out people for volunteer work. We had over five hundred men and one hundred twenty-one teams out that day. That is cooperation, isn't it? I know of no place except in the west where that can be done. A man from the east came up and asked what was going on, and I said it was a demonstration. He said he would give anything to have a moving picture of that shown in America. We have fourteen pictures of Utah work shown now in every extension service on beautification in America. The first year we hauled 4,600 loads of soil in one month, free of charge, in Smithfield. You may have noticed in the papers now that they 'are declaring a holiday in Hyrum 'to grade the ground ready for planting. ' ' It is the women who get the work put over. It is the women who push the thing and make it possible. In Wellsville, there was talk of improvement from time to time but nothing was done until the women arranged a bazaar where they sold whatever women make to sell and raised a nice sum of money which they presented to the mayor and said, "Now make our city square right." And it was done. Wellsville is in much better condition today than it has even been before. The 'expense of improving is very small compared with the increase of value of the property after this is done. You know you can-_plant trees for 50c or $1.00 that you would not take $1000 for in five or ten years from now. Some time ago I saw in a community a little house without a soul in it, not painted, not a tree or shrub, but there were two Lombardy poplars standing about one hundred feet from the property and the family went there to get some shade. It had not occurred to them that they could plant trees near the house. We talk about painting and repairing fences and other 
 property. There are many things that we do not know about our own business that the other fellow knows. Go over your property and see if the fence is broken, and when you go home at night, notice if the garage door is hanging on two hinges or one, or if the gate is straight. We see these things when they are first broken but finally we don't notice them any more; but the other fellow does—it is the first thing he sees and the last impression the stranger remembers. Let us repair and paint, and if things aren't worth painting, whitewash them. In Europe you will find whitewashed buildings all over and they look beautiful. If you will send to the college for a weather-proof whitewash formula, it will be sent to you. Those who wish to have a bulletin called "Arrangement and Planning of Hone Grounds" are welcome to it, free of charge, by writing to the Utah Agricultural College, Experiment Station, Logan, Utah. In our work for the extension division, we are aiming to take the public places first, and the Church leaders are backing this movement. One-half the expenses are being paid by the Church for any improvements made on Church grounds. Twenty years ago when I came here from Denmark, I noticed the Church houses in the country—standing just like tombstones—there was not a tree or shrub around them. Now it is different. Practically all the Church houses in the counties are being beautified. I went to the president of the college about twelve or thirteen years ago and asked him if there wasn't something that could be done to beautify the, churches in our state. He said, "If you know any way, go to it. We will pay the expenses." That was the beginning of this work—today there is so much work we can hardly handle it, but if there ever comes a call from a church I never refuse it. The churches and the schools are most important and we are very much interested in seeing all the churches and schools in the country beautified. It is important, as we see it, because it is to create and stimulate a sense of beauty and refinement in the young people and helps build character in them. Sometimes you hear someone say, "I can't build character by beautifying the home or the community," but you can. It has been proved that those who are brought up under such favorable conditions are different from those who do not have these advantages. You should go down to the slaughterhouse districts in Chicago—there isn't the same character there. 'They can't build the same character as we can where there is beauty all around. By developing community pride which has been spoken of by others here today, you make better homes, you keep your boys and girls at home, and you create respect for the property of others. ' I should like to tell you something about planting your yards. Most people are planting flowers in front of the houses. The a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 flowers should not be in front, they should be in the garden in the rear, or at the side. The lawn should come right up to the house, also right to the path leading into the rear. There should not be flowers along this path. The path should he laid in the lawn and not on the side of the lawn. The lawn should be on both sides and the flowers should be in the flower garden. Do "not use flower beds in ydur lawn or use automobile tires or anything like that argund the: flower beds. There should be a clean-cut lawn with flower garden at the side or rear of the house. J would like to see flower boxes, however, on the porches of every home. Shrubs should be wherever the house forms a corner or by the steps, but not all over the lawn. Everything you see from the street is public property so far as looks are concerned, and the rear of the house is your private property. Plant shrubs in the rear in groups to hide the view into the back yard—that is private, the rest is public property. I should like to read a few words from a book: "We are beginning a new era and we have a supreme privilege in helping to*bring about that era. I cannot think of any better action in order to bring a closer cooperation of the gods with our work than proclaiming the great gospel of beauty, by seeing that our cities are made beautiful, that the streets and dwellings are made beautiful. For wherever the sense of beauty permeates the people, the gods draw near. Beauty in our parks and open places, beauty in our streets—that means brotherliness and gentleness. If only we could influence our people, preach to them everywhere, that there is a great happiness in life by cherishing beauty. Then we shall have the gods coming closer to us. And so we can by our belief, by our reverence to the Gods, plan for that day when Christ will walk with man again, and heaven will be glad because of earth's beauty and goodness." Py