GUIDE LESSONS. 201 his subjects, or his fellow citizens, in that heavenly commonwealth where he shines first and formost among the sons of God. A Subject of Controversy. ? "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter, into the kingdom of God." Probably no theme connected with the gospel of Christ has caused more controversy than this positive and important declaration, the meaning of which, however plain to Christians anciently, has been a mater of uncertainty to their successors all down the centuries. From the days of the early Greek fathers of the Christian Church, to the days of St. Augustine, the great theologian of the Western or Roman Catholic division of that church; from his time to the time of Luther and Calvin, and thence on into the present age, men have disputed over the significance of those sacred words, over the mystical birth of water and of spirit, declared by the world's Redeemer to be the doorway to his Church, the portal of admittance into his kingdom. What is Baptism? ? Over the general meaning of the phrase, "born of water and of the Spirit," there may have been no serious contention. In all or most of the Christian denominations. Catholic and Protesant, that phrase means baptism, the ordinance whereby a person is initiated into the Church. But what does baptism mean? That is the problem. The significance, form, purpose, and effects of the ordinance, and whether or not it is necessary to salvation ? these questions have furnished the backbone of the controversy. And yet they are questions easily answered, problems readily solved, if we take the Holy Spirit for our guide, and wrest not the Scriptures. The Savior's Example. ? The New Testament teaches plainly the necessity of baptism. The words of Jesus, already quoted, may be reinforced by the following passages: "Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him. "But John forbade Him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? "And Jesus, answering, said unto him: Suffer it to be so now. for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him."? (Matthew 3:13-15.) A Universal Requirement. ? If it was becoming in the Son of God to be baptized, it is becoming in all who follow in his footsteps and hope to be with him hereafter. They must be baptized with the baptism that he was baptized with ? not only the baptism of suffering, through which "the captain of 
 our salvation" was "made perfect," but the baptism of water and of spirit, received by him at the River Jordan, nineteen centuries ago. To Fulfil All Righteousness. ? True, baptism is "for the remission of sins" (Mark 1:4; Acts 2:38); and Jesus "grew up without sin unto salvation." Hence, there was no sin in him to remit. Why, then, was he baptized? John saw this point when Jesus presented himself for baptism: "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?" While we cannot impute sin to the sinless, and say that Jesus was baptized, like an ordinary man, for the remission of his sins, we can and should take him at his word, that it was becoming in him, and is becoming in us, to be baptized, in order "to fulfil all righteousness." Little Children Exempt. ? The only class exempt are infants, or children young enough to be without sin. Obviously they cannot repent, and are therefore not fit subjects for baptism. Jesus said: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." Again: "Except ye humble yourselves and become as this little child, ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven." This shows not only that little children are sinless, but that they are types of the innocence and purity required of men and women, who, because not sinless, must be baptized and have their sins remitted, before they can enter into that kingdom where no sin, no uncleanness, can come. For this cause ? that men and women must "become as little children" before entering there ? baptism, the doorway, is compared to a birth, the entry of an infant into life. For this reason also, converts to Christ in ancient times were referred to as "new-born babes." (See Moroni 8:8-19, 22.) Full explanation in regard to this topic and subdivisions thereof will be found in Gospel Themes, by O. F. Whitney. See also Compendium, Ready References, and Talmage's Articles of Faith. Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III ? Family Group Forum. We present here the family group form as taught by the Genealogical Society of Utah, and as practiced by American students of genealogy. Last month, the students were instructed to gather up all possible data about themselves and their families. Let them now arrange this information according to the following plan: GUIDE LESSOXS. 203 Note. Numbering and relationship will be taken up in future lessons. 
 . Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? Truth. Truth is the perception of things just as they are. Between truth and falsehood, there is no middle ground. "We owe truth to all normal people, and under all normal circumstances." In sickness, or other abnormal conditions, there may be justification, and even wisdom in withholding the truth. Fortunately, these conditions or occasions do not often arise. tion. Truth is honesty and accuracy, expressed in word or action. Honesty of purpose should be the fundamental principle in word, thought, and deed. Habits of truthfulness establish feelings of confidence and security. Without confidence in one another, we could not maintain social and civilized conditions. Compare the respect for the truthful person with the contempt we feel for the one who deceives. It is sometimes a fine test of courage to be able to speak the truth. But to cover a fault with falsehood is mean and contemptible. Careless thinking and undisciplined observation are responsible for many apparent falsehoods. Also, there are persons who let their vivid imaginations "color" their statements, and in that way they depart from the truth. The habit of exaggeration is at least a mild departure from truth. But worse than all these mistakes of carelessness, parents sometimes willfully make misstatements to their children. Mothers have been known to tell their children they were not going away, and immediately after, "sneak off." Could a more emphatic lesson in fasehood and deception be given? And, too, at such an impressionable age. It is never too late to correct evil habits of any kind, but good habits formed early in life bring large returns in happiness. Children should be taught very early to see things just as they are, or, in other words, to get a true perception, and then to relate with accuracy what they have seen. In childhood, the imagination is very active, and often on this account, children tell very wonderful stories. They should not be punished for this, because that very imagination may be a sign of superior mentality. But with gentleness, patience, and perseverance, the child may be taught the difference between GUIDE LESSONS. 205 stories of imagination and the accurate statement of facts. Also, he may be taught the value of truth and the respect which it commands. Children sometimes knowingly and wilfully tell what is not true, because they realize they have done wrong or have met with accident, and wish to shield themselves from punishment. In brief, they falsify, because they are afraid. It is very important to teach such a child the value of courage as well as truthfulness. Very few children intentionally do wrong; and when they make mistakes, or do what in our eyes seems reprehensible, we should seek the cause which is behind the action. Above all things, we should never doubt a child's word until we are really obliged to. Many children are highly sensitive as to the opinion of their elders, and are deeply and unforgettably wounded when their word is doubted. Besides, belief in people often helps them to be better. Truthfulness is a most important factor in family, social, and business life: and what a valuable assest to any community is the man whose "word is as good as his bond." He who speaks truthfully will strive to live honestly, and rejoice that there are no false actions to conceal. We all desire to know the truth; therefore, it is discourteous and unethical to use deception towards others. QUESTIONS, What is truth? Give another definition, please. Name some of the advantages arising from habits of truthfulness. Some disadvantages of the opposite course. Name some of the fine qualities of character developed by truthfulness. What qualities in children may lead into false speaking? How should they be corrected? Do parents sometimes unconsciously or thoughtlessly teach deception? Should we not always give children and friends the benefit of the doubt? What effect may believing the best of people have upon them? Is there such a thing as a "white lie"? Are there any occasions on which departure from the truth is justifiable? If you know of such instances, relate some. Commit some memory gems on the subject, and read frequently John Jaques' hymn, in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Oh, Say What is Truth," etc. 
 QUOTATIONS. "Oh, what a tangled web we weave, When first we practice to deceive." ? Scott. ? for truth is truth to the end of reckoning. Shakespeare. "He is the freeman whom the truth makes free. And all are slaves beside." ? Cowper. Hymn in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Oh Say What is Truth," etc. ? John Jaques. ART. "Man is that he might have joy." Book of Mormon. Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 20 to 35. (a) Who assisted in the design of the Salt Lake Theatre? What other work was done by E. L. T. Harrison Tell a tragedy that occurred in his life. (b) Who painted the scenery in the Salt Lake Theatre? Tell something of the life history of George M. Ottinger. Visit his studio if possible and tell about it. Show some of his pictures. (c) Give a sketch of Dan Weggeland. Show one of his pictures, if possible. The cut on page 28 is excellent, though the wonderful blues used in the original painting are of course lost in the illustration. How many of his pictures have you seen in the temples? Try to visit at least one temple to look at his work? son. before the year is gone. * Make a report of it in the art lesson there (d) Tell the sad story of C. C. A. Christensen. When were his happiest days spent? Where is his work to be seen? Classes in Sanpete, Salt Lake and contiguous stakes might visit his work or have it to exhibit to the Relief Society meeting. (e) What architecture and ideas do you think of Priscilla P. Jennings' home? What has been the influence of the Youngs, Staines, Folsoms and Jennings in Salt Lake? What families have led out in making beautiful homes and gardens near you?