[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Dowager | Author: City]
A << Dowager MH larehioness of Reading Vaile. On Salt Make City. Utah OWAGER Marchioness of Reading, G. B. E., C. St. J., was a recent visitor to Salt Lake City, Utah. She came to the city to see "what makes the Mormons tick." Through acquaintance with a few Latter-day Saints in England, she "felt compelled to come to Salt Lake City." The General Board of Relief Society was honored to entertain Lady Reading. She spoke at a reception given for her in the Relief Society Building where she told of the work being done in England by the Women's Voluntary Services which Lady Reading founded in 1938. It performed outstanding wartime service with one and a quarter million volunteers. Presently, with a half million volunteers, it carries forward a humanitarian program which includes placing help in homes needing assistance and providing a cooked meal every other day for persons confined to their homes in need of this service. 'T hrough this vital assistance, termed "meals on wheels," older people are able to continue living in their own homes. Lady Reading, in her talk, spoke of the great part which volunteer effort has in the English pattern of life, stating that ninety-one per cent of criminal cases are tried by volunteer justices and that hospital management and local government are run completely by volunteers. While the guest of Relief Society, President Spafford accompanied Lady Reading through Welfare Square and showed her a typical Latterday Saint meetinghouse. They attended the Tabernacle Choir broadcast after which Lady Reading spoke to the choir, expressing her pleasure at hearing them. 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Lady Reading gives of herself unselfishly and is one of the great women of the world today. In manner she is modest and unassuming, but in her speech— sparkling and dynamic — she reveals the strength, sincerity, and singleness of high purpose which has molded her life's pattern into that of a woman dedicated to the service of those less fortunate. Before her return to England in June, she was given an honorary doctorate degree from Yale University. She was similarly honored in 1956 by Smith College. Lady Reading's husband, now deceased, was an honored servant of England. 'Twice he was Lord Chief Justice of England, was Ambassador to the United States, and Viceroy of India. Lady Reading's expression becomes lighted when she speaks of her beloved husband and his great work. During Lady Reading's visit she was privileged to meet the First Presidency and expressed herself as looking forward to meeting President McKay during his visit to England where he will dedicate the London Temple on September 7, 1958. ~}<- WYotes. TO THE FIELD She Annual General Relief Society Con erence THE Annual General Relief Society Conference will be held Wednesday and 'Thursday, October 8th and gth, 1958. 'The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 8th, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning October 8th, from 10 to 12 in the 'Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held 'Thursday morning and 'Thursday afternoon, October oth, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 8th, from 7 to 10 in The Relief Society Building. <> sate Sumner Frances C. Yost Late in the summer, there has come a day More lovely than the others; a day caught In an enchantment beyond time and place. The earth, the sky, the sea of deeper hues, Are windless yet alive. My eyes traverse Like birds across the far expanse of space, And viewing all, my heart desires no change. #lonor Shy Sather and Shy Mother Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Exodus 20:12). Hy Father and Be Honest wil th Yourself LL who dwell upon the earth are following in various stages of their journey the path between the pre-existent life and the eternities to come. Thus earth life is but one part of a spiritual progression in our long seeking for greater perfection. The youth of the earth are looking forward along a lighted path where they have never been before, and older people are looking back along the earth path where they have already walked in hope and faith, a path now known to them, its pitfalls and its satisfaction known, its signposts noted. Throughout the ages, the youth of the earth, eager for learning and experience, have at times resented the guidance which sometimes has appeared to them as being too freely offered. Yet, it would be well if all children, older children and younger children, who are blessed with living parents and the abiding memory of loved ones gone, might recall and consider the inescapable fact that their parents are but earlier travelers on the life path, and their counsel is offered from the wider range of wisdom acquired through living. As children mature and seek their life companions and the work which seems to fulfill their talents and their preferences, then the counsel of parents may be as a rod of strength in a place where young people encounter shifting beliefs and social change. A truly wise and understanding parent will not seek to make his sons and daughters replicas of himself, but rather will try to direct his children into paths of personal fulfillment in harmony with personal abilities and needs. Wise are the parents who have illuminated the path ahead for their sons and daughters from earliest childhood, by teaching such fundamental attitudes and habits as reverence for the commandments of God, prayer, virtue, kindness and consideration for others, order, and industry. The honor which parents receive in gratitude and joy in their posterity, is usually the result of wise training which they have given their children in all the years of their development. For them the ancient commandment has been enlarged and glorified by the deep love and the continuing appreciation which flow freely from the hearts of the children to their honored parents. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 513 Recipes Sitom the Tlorikgun Titecan Hegnen Submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor CAJETA 2 qts. Milk 1 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 Ib. Sugar "2 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Vanilla Bring the milk to a boil and add the other ingredients, except the vanilla, and boil until a syrup-like consistency is formed. At first stir only occasionally. As it gets thicker, stir more often. Add the vanilla and cool. ESPANADAS (Baked Turnovers) 3 ¢. Flour 1 egg ¥% c. Shortening 2 tbsp. Sugar "2 c. Milk "% tsp. Salt Sift flour with sugar and salt three times. Add shortening and beaten egg. 'Then add milk gradually. Mix well and kneed to form a soft and smooth dough. Roll thin and cut in rounds. Place a little of the filling on the rounds and fold moistened edges together, pressing well. Brush with beaten egg and bake for ten minutes at 450 degrees, then reduce to 350 degrees for the time needed to cook through thoroughly. (The filling usually consists of cooked fish, but the following is good, too.) 3 Bermuda onions 4 hard-boiled eggs 4 tbsp. Oil 3 tbsp. Water 3 red canned pimentos salt and pepper to taste 1 c. Grated cheese Chop onion and boil until transparent. Drain and cook in the oil, being careful not to let it brown. Remove from fire and add grated cheese, chopped pimentos, chopped eggs, and salt and pepper. Should the mixture be too dry add a little more oil. CALABACITAS PICADAS (Chopped Summer Squash) 4 c. Chopped green summer squash 1 tbsp. Minced onion 4 c. Chopped tomatoes 1 clove garlic minced (optional) corn from two ears 4 tbsp. Olive oil 1 green pepper 1 pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese Clean and boil the green pepper and cut in thin strips. Boil corn for five minutes. Oil a casserole dish and place in alternate layers the squash, tomatoes, onion, garlic, corn, green pepper strips, salt, pepper, and oil. Cover and bake in hot oven until squash is done. Serve hot, garnished with crumbled cream cheese. CHILAQUILOS (Chili and Cheese Casserole ) 10 tortillas 3 c. Ground meat (beef, pork, chicken) 1 C. Cream 2 tbsp. Minced onion 3 green chili (canned may be used) 2 c. Grated cheese 2 c. Tomatoes Fry the tortillas in deep fat (not crisp), then put them in the cream. Grind the meat, add minced onion, shredded chili, from which the veins and seeds have been Page 514 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION 515 removed, grated cheese, and tomatoes and salt to taste. Put the tortillas in the bottom of a casserole dish, add the other ingredients, and pour over the top the cream left from the tortillas. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. PASTEL DE POBRE (Meat and Cheese Casserole) 8 tortillas 2 tbsp. Chili powder ¥% c. Minced onion 1 c. Thin sour cream 2 lbs. Hamburger meat 1 tsp salt ilb. Grated cheese Cut the tortillas in inch cubes and fry in deep fat. Cook the onion in the fat in a skillet until tender. Add the meat, chili powder, and salt, and brown. Add the tortillas and mix with meat mixture. Put a layer of the meat mixture, then a layer of cheese, in an oiled casserole dish, and repeat. Pour the cream over the mixture and bake. TOMATO AND CHICKEN ENCHILADAS tortillas 1 avocado cream cheese 1 onion shredded chicken or ground meat crumbled cream cheese onion rings Sauce 2% c. Tomato sauce 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 2 tbsp. Minced onion 1 tbsp. Chili sauce or powder 1 clove garlic (optional) salt to taste fat for frying Fry onion and garlic in the fat. When soft, add tomato sauce, chili, and parsley. Season with salt and cook gently until thick. Have ready a hot platter. Dip each tortilla in the sauce, fill with some shredded chicken, and roll. Place on platter. After all rolls are on platter, pour the rest of the sauce over them. Just before serving, garnish with crumbled cream cheese, avocado slices, and onion rings. Instead of the chicken, any leftover meat may be used. O——<- ' Sor a LaceMaker Maryhale Woolsey Finger to finger, bobbins swiftly fly Leading the thread through twist and swirl and knot; Beneath her hands the intricate pattern forms, And in its web her own young dreams are caught. Moment to moment, hour by day by year, Time looms her fate; may it reveal no less, In its complete and sure unfoldment, than Her own creation holds of loveliness! "Not to the Swift" CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Julie Markham, whose father died when she was six years old, lives in Chicago with her mother who was once a musician, but is now employed as a secretary. Julie, who had studied voice under Madame Heinrich, is registered in a music school. She finds that Professor Carlson, one of the teachers, is a member of the Church. FTER Sunday School, some of the ward members who sat near Julie and Mr. Carlson introduced themselves. Julie was greeted by many who asked about her mother. "Craig Carlson," Julie heard again and again. "You'll have to call me by my first name at church, anyway." Craig had led the way to the front sidewalk again. "Are you boarding near here?" "No." Julie again was filled with confusion. "I live down in Chicago with my mother. You see, we moved back here when I was around six, just beginning school, so I'm almost a native." "Well, that almost saves you. I have my car just down the-street. I'd like to drive you home." "Oh, no thank you," Julie murmured. "I'm used to taking the elevated, really." Julie was acting awkwardly she knew, but she hurried away across the street to the bus stop. It was silly not to be able to take a casual lift home in stride, but she was naturally shy. There had been a boy in high school who had wanted to come to her apartment and study with her, but it interferred with her Page 516 practicing, and he had stoppe