[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes To the Field: The Annual Gene-ai Reliet Society Conference 5l2 Notes From The Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Annie  H.  Capps 
SOUTH  CAROLINA  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  FASHION  SHOW 
Columbia,  South  Carohna,  April  12,  1958 
Annie  H.  Capps,  President,  South  Carolina  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "We  are 
happy  to  announce  the  success  of  our  first  fashion  show  which  was  held  on  a  regular 
union  meeting  day.  All  thirteen  wards  were  represented,  with  approximately  one  hun- 
dred participants.  The  fashion  show  was  in  charge  of  Pauline  Branham,  stake  work 
meeting  leader,  and  Malcolm  Fagan,  Work  Director  Counselor.  Some  of  the  sisters 
participating  in  the  fashion  show  had  never  sewed  before.  We  are  very  proud  of  their 
putting  forth  the  effort  and  time  to  make  the  fashion  show  a  success.  W^e  feel  that  it 
has  encouraged  the  sisters  to  sew  more  for  their  families,  and  has  helped  to  show  them 
how  to  be  more  economical.  Costs  of  the  garments  were  as  low  as  one  dollar  for  an 
adult  dress  and  even  less  for  some  of  the  children's  clothes.  All  participants  are  not 
shown  in  the  picture." 
Page  538

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
539 
Joseph  Smith,  John  Taylor,  and  Willard  Richards  as  they  appeared  at  the  organiza- 
tion meeting  of  Relief  Soeiety  Mareh  17,  1842,  and  the  present  ward  Relief  Society 
President,  left  to  right:  Jess  L.  Holmes,  First  Counselor;  William  G.  Galbraith,  Bishop; 
Minnie  C.  Fronk,  President,  Thirteenth  Ward  Relief  Soeiety;  Clyde  V.  Goodwin,  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  bishopric.
