[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
[You Can Sew — VI. Zippers Jean R. Jennings]

"Oh, she's fine, very well now. She did have that virus last winter, but we're hoping she'll get through this one without too much trouble, and soon she can come to meetings with me." There were so many nice people whom her mother could talk with and enjoy. It was true that most women had husbands, but there were some older single women, and "NOT TO THE SWIFT" her mother had missed the meetings so much. OK OK OK oe HAT winter always seemed the happiest that Julie could remember, and before she realized it, it was her second winter at school. The campus slept warmly while Julie shivered in the winter storms, but she was too happy to care. She joined the L. D. S. Club at school, and her mother allowed her to go to an occasional dance at Mutual. "Just so long as your studies don't fall off," her mother warned. Julie reassured her mother happily. Languages had always been easy for her, she had begun them so early because of her singing. And her classes in the school of music were wonderful. But she did have to study for her other courses. "If this weren't one of the best schools of music in the country, I'd have you drop the classes that don't apply directly to your major. Perhaps we should somehow have managed to get you to New York to study, but it's hard for me to give up a good job and start again," Julie's mother confided. Julie felt her heart beat normally again. "Oh, Mother, going summers I'm going to finish a year earlier now, and I've already started upper division classes on my major. There's plenty of time for New York. Mr. Carlson said if I'm really ambitious, there are plenty of scholarships available for graduates." "Yes, I know." Her mother massaged the cold cream into her face carefully. "Sing that little 'Lament' again, will you, dear. You know, the little piece by Sandoval. I thought you could do that as your second number at meeting next Sundav night." 507 Craig Carlson often accompanied Julie when she sang in the ward. He was very busy both studying and teaching, and he had begun singing with a quartette on a local television program. Julie's mother nearly always made the effort to go to meeting with Julia, and Craig Carlson often insisted on picking them up and driving them home. '"He's a very fine young man," Julie's mother said to her one might after Craig had been up to the apartment for cake after church. He and Julie sometimes sang duets at their own ward and other wards and branches in the stake. '"He's a wonderful person," Julie agreed. "I'm sorry I'm no longer an undergraduate, so I can't have him for a teacher anymore. All the gitls like him specially, though that's probably because so many of the teachers are older or marnied or are so temperamental. Mr. Carlson is liked by the fellows, too. I guess because he's always so natural acting. He doesn't stamp his feet or shout if you make a mistake, but he makes you work and like it." "Or call you Fraulein Markham and hit the piano the way Madame Heinrich used to." Julie's mother laughed and started the water running in the bathroom. Julie sat down on the edge of her bed with a start. Madame Heinrich! Oh, how awful. She hadn't thought of her for ages, and she'd promised her so faithfully she'd come by and see her often after she quit taking lessons. Was that really two years ago? All her life it seemed had stood still, waiting, and now it was flying past so fast she could hardly catch her breath. Craig was taking her down to the NG ayne Auditorium to sing tomorrow night. 518 Maybe there'd be time to stop at Madame Heinrich's on the way. The phone was ringing, and she picked up the receiver quickly. It was Ted Talbot from the L. D. S. Club at school. Julie had gone to a dance with him at the ward. He was tall and blond and as shy as she was, so she felt very comfortable with him. "The Club party this month is at the Edgewater Beach Hotel — same room as we get for the Gold and Green Balls. I thought — that is, I'd like you to go with me." "I'd love to," Julie assured him happily. She was sure her mother would let her go. After she had done her practicing, her mother would say yes. She didn't have to sing anywhere that night! What would she wear? She had a new dress for tomorrow night at the Auditorium — pale blue and ballerina length. If she wore ballet slippers and rhinestones and all her petticoats maybe it would look "partyish" enough for next Friday night, too. She had scarcely listened to the details Ted had given her, but there they were — jotted down on the phone pad: Friday night, about half-past eight. Julie slipped into bed and then got out quickly to say her prayers. She had so many things to be thankful for. 'Then she squeezed down into the bed, missing the hump in the middle and pulled the comforter up to her chin. Now she knew why she had always loved the fairy tales so. At some time, everyone's life must become a little bit of a fairy tale. CRAIG was early, just as Julie had hoped he'd be. Julie had mentioned stopping at Madame HeinRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 tich's, and Mary Markham had seemed very pleased. "I'm sure that's thoughtful of you, Julie, and give her my love, too. She's a wonderful woman." "You'll have to point the way," Craig smiled at Julie as he shut her door. "Down here the numbering is wild, and it will save time if I don't have to hunt." "I've been here so many times, I could find it with my eyes shut," Julie assured him. They parked the car in the street and walked to the flat. Julie had tried to tell Craig what a wonderful woman and artist Madame Heinrich was, but he would have to see for himself. She had a good reputation in the city, and she was noted for her integrity. Even Professor Rossi had said that at school. 'They waited at the door of the flat. 'They could hear music within. Julie should have called. Madame Heinrich had a pupil. "Tl be with you in a minute, my Julie sweet. I've missed you. No, no, sit here, not so dusty." The flat was large, and the rent much. Higher than the Markham's apartment, but the clutter of piles of music, pictures, and dirty cups made the flat seem more dreary and shabby than Julie remembered. Madame Heinrich was smaller and older, too. Her shapeless dress dragged the floor behind her when she walked. She really needs someone to take care of her, Julie thought. Had she no family, no relatives? She had never seen pictures of them, and she had never heard Madame Heinrich talk of them. The pupil had a beautiful voice, and Julie began to listen intently.