[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: "Not to the Swift"— Chapter 2 | Author: Deone R. Sutherland]
I wonder how many pupils Mad- "NOT TO THE SWIFT" ame Heinrich has had who have had better voices than mune, Julie thought. Then she felt guilty about thinking such a thing. She must believe in her own talent and future. She had often been assured she had great possibilities, and she loved her music so much. "At last, Julie, and how is your dear Mama? You are lucky to have a Mama so dedicated to your career. You like your school as always?" "Yes, Madame Heinrich," and Julie presented Craig. Madame Heinrich uncovered chairs for them in front of the ashfilled fireplace, and settled herself on a shabby divan. Julie told her about school and the classes she was taking. "Herr Carlson, are you like. Julie, no coffee, no tea?" Madame Heinrich was struggling to her feet. "Yes, 'm lke Julie in that respect," Craig agreed. Madame Heinrich sank back on the sofa. "Then there is nothing to give you. I do not even have a quart of milk. My milkman comes in the morning. Ah, I know what Pll show you. I have a lovely long letter from a former student who has just given her concert at 'Town Hall in New York." The letter was most complimentary to Madame Heinrich, and the references to the success of the concert were abundant. "Julie, it's getting late; we should be starting. " Craig had handed the letter back after scarcely glancing at it. I os jumped up. It was late. She kissed Madame Heinrich on the cheek, and at the door was kissed twice in return by Madame Heinrich. She stood in the door- 519 way waving goodbye to them in her long, shapeless dark dress, her wispy gray hair thinned about her face. Julie had never thought of her as lonely before, but now she seemed so. She seemed indescribablvy lonely standing there in her doorway with her hand half raised in salute, and the dusty, empty rooms behind her filled with souvenirs of the past. Why had she never seemed so before to Julie? Was it that Julie had alwavs come and left alone herself? Was it that Julie had been lonely without knowing it? Craig had taken her hand to steady her down the steep stairs. Was it Craig who made her feel sorry for Madame Heinrich? For a moment it became difficult to breathe evenly, simply because he was holding her hand. She had never been aware of him like this before. She averted her face. Her hand meant nothing to him. She must not let him see how she felt. Besides, she didn't know how she felt except that she was being silly over nothing. It was quite dark when they reached Wavne Auditorium, and Julie busied herself smoothing her hair and greeting everyone to whom she was introduced with a radiant smile. She sang "Alleluja" from the Motet Exsultate, K. 165 by Mozart, and, finally, as a last encore, she sang "Juliet's Waltz Song" from Romeo and Juliet, by Gounod. Each time she glanced toward Craig at the piano, his eves were on her. But they were dark and expressionless, and she couldn't guess what he was thinking. Well, it didn't matter. She would sing better than she had ever sung. At least he would have to approve of her singing. They had stayed for the dinner, 520 so it was late before Craig finally drove up before the Markham apartment. Julie knew her mother would be waiting up for her, but she unlocked the downstairs door with a key without ringing the buzzer and stepped into the empty hall with the endless red carpet that stretched through so many Chicago apartment houses. Craig laid his hand lightly on her arm and stopped her at the first flight of stairs. "I almost forgot. I wanted to ask you to the dance at the Edgewater Beach Hotel Friday night." Julie bit her lip in vexation that she had already accepted a date; then she remembered her manners. She explained she'd already accepted Ted 'Talbot. "He's arrived in there ahead of me quite a few times lately. You know, it just occurred to me that we're both starting on our last year here. [ll get my final degree in the spring." "Dr. Carlson," Julie murmured. "And you'll be going on to New York for more study and to have a fling at the professional grind." HY did her heart begin to feel so heavy? She was beginning to feel utterly wretched. "So, if I'm to do any courting, I've only this year in which to do it, Julie," and Craig kissed her full on the lips, so surely and briefly that Julie wasn't sure for a moment it had really happened and that she hadn't dreamed it all. She fairly flew up the rest of the stairs beside him. She went into the apartment alone, without meeting his eyes again. Her mother was in bed, though the lights were on. She slipped into the bathroom and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 stared at herself in the mirror. The kiss didn't show! Except in her eyes and on her cheeks which were extra rosy, she had to admit as an afterthought. She took off her dress and filled the washbowl with warm water. Then a terrible thought struck her. If Craig couldn't take her to the dance, he would be taking another girl He would take one of the pretty Gleaner Girls from the ward, or maybe Ann Stephens from the club at school. Julie had seen them walking across the campus together several times. Julie began scrubbing her face vigorously with soap and water. Life was terrible; there were so many problems. "Julie, is that you, Julie?" It was her mother calling sleepily from the bedroom. Julie sighed with relief. Her mother was awake. She would tell her everything. She would tell her about this wonderful feeling she had discovered she felt toward Craig tonight, and that he had. Her mother would have an answer to her problems. Julie buried her face in her pink hand towel and hurried to her mother's bedroom. "Darling." Her mother had dozed off with mounds of letters and catalogues stacked around her, but she roused herself and now spoke sleepily, "Julie, darling, I've been filling out application blanks for a scholarship next year in New York. Now, as I see it, the choice is between the Fuller School of Music where you'd be able to study under." Julie leaned against the doorway and listened. The sounds of the city softened a little at night, but the muted sounds still went on. There was the clang and bang of a truck "NOT TO THE SWIFT" somewhere, and the screech of buses and trolleys. "Youll have to get busy on your letters of recommendation, Julie, and we'll get everything off early. Maybe you should cut a new record —well, we'll get expert advice about that. Are you listening, dear?" "Yes, Mother, I'll see the teachers at school Monday. Will that be soon enough?" "Fine, fine." Her mother was putting the papers on the little table beside her bed. "Did you have a nice time? How did you do tonight?" Julie went into the living room and sat on the edge of her bed. "They said everything was excellent, 521 Mother. I've never sung better." She said her prayers quickly and climbed into bed. Now all was dark. 'The blinds were pulled tight against the street lights and the city signs that blinked back at the stars. It was silly to have a lump in your throat because life seemed confusing, and you weren't sure what was going to happen. Maybe other people were sure what was going to happen to you, but you didn't know. Julie folded her arm under her cheek. Something wonderful had happened to her tonight, she knew it had, and she would never forget it. 'Then she fell asleep. (To be continued)