[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Jacobson]
[POETRY When Threshers Came — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 489 Heard on Horeb Dorothy J. Roberts 499 The Breaking Cord Margery S. Stewart 507 Wayside Incident Eva Willes Wangsgaard 507 Late Summer Frances C. Yost 512 For a Lace-Maker Maryhale Woolsey 515 Telegram Linnie F. Robinson 523 Discovery Anna W. Fox 567 Mountain Meadow .' Ethel Jacobson]
1630,  known  in  the  colonies  and  in 
England  for  her  poetry,  enjoyed  all 
the  comforts  early  colonial  New 
England  could  offer. 
There  is  an  interesting  story  of 
furniture  development,  through 
chairs,  tables,  beds,  and  chests,  from 
the  heavy  wainscot  and  Brewster 
chairs  of  Plymouth,  to  the  fine  furni- 
ture of  the  late  colonial  period. 
Books  of  furniture  designs,  printed 
in  England  by  Thomas  Chippendale 
(1754),  by  Andrew  Heppelwhite 
(1788),  and  by  Thomas  Sheraton 
(1795),  were  used  by  colonial  cab- 
inetmakers to  produce  much  fine 
furniture  for  the  homes  of  prosper- 
ous New  Englanders  near  the  close 
and  immediately  following  the  co- 
lonial period. 
Oi  Light 
Since  there  were  no  matches  and 
starting  a  fire  was  difficult,  effort 
was  made  to  keep  a  fire  going  all 
the  time.  Fireplace  embers  were 
banked  to  preserve  live  sparks,  but 
when  fanning  and  puffing  could  not 
coax  them  into  flame,  a  child  carry- 
ing a  long-handled  fire  scoop  would 
be  sent  to  a  neighbor's  to  borrow  a 
few  live  coals. 
When  necessary  to  start  from 
''scratch,"  new  fire  could  be  made 
by  striking  flint  against  steel,  the 
resulting  sparks  being  allowed  to  fall 
into  easily  ignited  shreds  of  linen. 
Paper  was  far  too  valuable  to  be 
used  as  tinder.  Tinder,  with  its 
associated  flint  and  steel,  was  kept 
in  a  metal  tinder  box,  which  fre- 
quently had  a  candle  socket  on  its 
lid  so  that  the  fire  once  started 
might  be  kept  aflame.
