on the basis of the constant friction between opposing factions. Were it not so, a republic would soon or late become an autocracy, and express the will and plans of but one man or one set of men. There must be opposition in love. Novels are founded on the human triangle of one man and two women or two men and one woman. In the infancy of novel writing, as in the infancy of man and of men, the battles of life are fought with sticks and staves, knives and guns. In maturity the battle is between will and will, or between will and circumstances or the forces of nature. There are but three plots in the universe and these are founded on the battle of the human will with the opposing forces of love, of greed, or of ambition. The office of friendship is the discipline of wise encouragement and wise rebuke;  as the Preacher puts it, "As iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." (Pr. 27:17.) There is constant opposition in business life. Men must needs oppose one another. As the old phrase has it, "Competition is the life of trade." Today it is the battle of the business giants, pigmies are crushed to powder in the struggle. And when you shift the battle to the opposing forces of organized capital and organized labor you have a death grapple which threatens to destroy civilization in its throes. In our homes this ceaseless struggle of wills goes on and on. Children oppose one another, parents oppose the children and, at times, oppose each other. The stronger will — too often the selfish and self-centered will — wins in this daily domestic struggle, and too often goodness and unselfishness submits for the sake of peace. That is always life's bitterest tragedy. When we set up our wills against the divine will, as we do so often — and so often half-consciously — we must inevitably pay the price in health, in love, in business, in politics, in our homes and in our religion. Only, how may we always know that we are opposing law and the purpose of the Lord. Ah, 
 my friends, there are sign posts for us, if we will but study them, all along life's way. All wills must bend here and give way there, for, after all, life is just one huge compromise;  and we must always remember that the good of the whole is far more necessary than that of any one of its parts. That is the foundation of a republic. How much to bend, when to give way, that's our daily problem. If we can but face this vital fact of discipline, of the need of opposition, fairly and squarely, the half of our problem is solved. But we are like children, we want our way at once and without opposition. We are not willing to wait and to keep on struggling. We fly from discipline. Discouraged we throw up our hands and let go of the iron rod. "Cowards," said Pres. Joseph F. Smith, to a group of troubled women who wished to resign from their positions because of bitter opposition: “Is that what you would do in general Church affairs, if things didn't go right? Apostatize because mistakes occur and men oppose a good measure? Stay right where you are and work to bring to pass what measures seem right and wise!" Hence, we must count upon opposition. It is the oxygen of human vitality. A man who had a great mission to perform the following day paced the floor all night sleepless and alert. When asked by his friend why he did not retire he replied, "I am afraid of the unseen wills working in the dark." Then, opposition must come, and we must make the discipline thereof fruitful through our wisdom, our faith, and through an unselfish desire to serve God and our fellow men. Thus it will become a blessing, leaving in its wake peace and prosperity. Will we, then, not welcome our opposing forces in this pregnant, opening year of 1920, making them our servants and not our masters? This wonderful opening year, the centennial of that marvelous vision in the grove at Palmyra, when our beloved Prophet, Joseph Smith, received his glorious manifestation, the opening of the heavens and the revelation anew to the children of men that God is in his heavens and that Jesus is his Only Begotten Son. Will we not remember the long and terrible discipline of opposition which flooded the path of that prophet, and which was only surpassed by the cruel opposition known to the Savior of the world? From them we will draw our New Year's lesson, and will measure our opposition by the rod of iron, and by the Golden Rule. Thus we may face the rising of our