EDITORIAL   THE GENERAL. BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WilLLIAMS ----- First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES - - - - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY - Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth SL Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily St. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Parnsworth Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C Crimson Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. VII JANUARY. 1920 No. 1 THE DISCIPLINE OF OPPOSITION IN THIS NEWEST YEAR OF 1920. Life is checkered with discipline, strewn with raging battles of human will with human will, of human will with circumstances and with the forces of nature. It is the vital part of the divine plan, the pith, the marrow of human existence. Nay, it is to be supposed that no conscious existence can obtain without the operation of opposition and of the consequent discipline. Some human wills may indeed refuse to accept the discipline or acknowledge the presence of law and of a divine ordering in their various experiences. No matter how opposition comes to us — and come it will, whether we are determined to grow upward, to work wisely, to serve nobly, or if we are simply weak and foolish — all the opposition and the disciple born of that opposition will strengthen us, develop us, and enrich life here and hereafter, if we accept it for what it is, and intelligently turn it to best account. Everywhere we look we find discipline: the discipline of fear, of disappointment and loss, of failure, of criticism, of sickness and death, of work and severest of all, the tonic discipline of lack of appreciation. In childhood and youth every opposing force to our appetites and desires is bitterly resented and violently received. Little savages as they are, children know no law but desire, no rights but their own. That their desires may infringe on other's rights, that the gratification of their EDITORIAL 49 wants and appetites may bring pain and sickness to themselves or to others means nothing whatever to their undescended minds. Some grown people, either inordinately selfish, or spoiled by coddling and over-indulgence in youth, maintain this senseless and densely ignorant attitude toward life all their days. We have opposition from every source, in every activity and through all life's manifestations;  there must be, and is, opposition in politics;  even in monarchies and under autocrats there is the constant play and inter-play of crossing wills and opposing purposes and plans. Republics can exist only