Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. During the first four months of 1915, 60,000 tons of Canadian made steel rails were brought into the United States duty-free. Canada places a duty of $7.84 per ton on steel rails from this country. Herr Steffens, a German inventor, noting that present European conditions had limited the supply of lubricating oil in Germany, says he has discovered a method of making lubricating oil from molasses. "Sweet are the uses of adversity." Another terrific wind and rain storm took a large toll of deaths and destruction of property in Texas and Oklahoma on April 22. The "valleys of the mountains" are a desirable place of abode when compared with regions which are subject to such disastrous natural disturbances. The exhibition of the moving picture drama "Hypocrites" has been stopped in several States, and properly so. The film was presented in Salt Lake City for a week, without protest. Those who approve as permissible the "nude-in-art" in a moving picture film of an undraped woman show a lamentable lack of knowledge of youthful human nature. French and German antagonists in the European conflict each complain that the others are using nauseating asphyxiating bombs. These may be new to war, but they cannot be said to be more objectionable than the main game. To the neutral spectator it is a pity that the noxious gases do not reach the leaders who are responsible for the war rather than merely to the men in the trenches. Two Arizona officers have been jailed for murder, because one of the men to whom they administered the "third degree" in an effort to compel him to confess to a crime died under the treatment. The "third degree" process frequently applied by sheriffs and police officers to obtain confessions is quickly coming under the ban of an enlightened public sentiment. In an address at Phoenix. Arizona, Vice President Marshall made the statement that the Mormon Church was an efficient organization and that therein "the individual is subservient to the organization." Of course, in the United States and in all governments the individual is necessarily subservient to the organization to an extent that constitutes the public welfare; but a man of such 
 prominence as the Vice President of the United States should be possessed of the information that in the Mormon Church the organized supremacy goes no further than the generally recognized line of public welfare. Women of Japan coming to are coming to a recognition entitled of their fair treatment rights, from the stronger sex. Miss Hede Nomaza. after losing her case in two courts, took it to the highest Japanese tribunal, which awarded her $10,000 — a small fortune in Japan — in a suit for breach of promise against a prominent Jap who refused to fulfil his agreement to make her his wife. Evidently the day of women being classed as mere goods and chattels is passing away in the Orient. Nearly nineteen centuries ago the Alan of Nazareth predicted that Jerusalem should "be trodden under the foot of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled." Now that the notably pure Gentile race known in eastern Europe and western Asia as the Moslems is about to have its power over all Palestine swept away by a race with which the blood of Israel is largely intermingled, this evident fulfilment of the "times of the Gentiles" is full of portent in prophetic history to the present generation of professing Christians. It is to be noted that along an overland air line cutting off Syria and the Holy Land from that part of Turkey immediately south and east of the Turkish capital, the main British forces advancing westward from the Persian Gulf through Mesopotamia and those recently landed in Turkish territory on the shore of the Aegean Sea are scarcely a hundred miles apart. The European war has had a very marked effect in turning the thoughts of the people to the subject of religion. This is noticeably true in France, "in the land of frivolity and gaiety, cynicism and skepticism." It is commonly noted that along the great battle lines men in the trenches are becoming religious where they never thought before of religion. Throughout America, as well as in Europe, there is shown a marked renewal of interest in religion. The situation thus presented affords an opportunity to promulgate the fundamental principles of Christianity as enumerated in the Epistle to the Hebrews, viz.: Faith, Repentance, Baptism, Laying on of Hands, the Resurrection of the Dead, and Eternal Judgment. Not a discussion of alleged "higher criticisms" and theories developed and largely originated by men, nor the beaming platitudes and pedagogical rules of conduct which men formulate to regulate individual conduct, will satisfy. What is needed are gospel truths taught in plainness and simplicity, that men may comprehend these readily and thus come to a knowledge of the divine plan of salvation, as this applies to them directly.