Health Department. NERVOUS BREAKDOWN. By Maud Baggarley. The phrase "nervous breakdown" appears with distressing frequency in the annals of sanitariums, health resorts, and hospitals. "Once upon a time" — and not such a long time ago either — "nerves" were supposed to exist only in the imagination of the one afflicted, and the expression, "Oh she only has a nervous trouble," was a very common one indeed. Usually the remark was accompanied by a smile and an uplift of the eyebrows. Eventually, however, physicians were enabled to point out to the laity, the causes underlying certain effects, and after "the fever called living" had produced a larger number of victims of this malady, more than one of the "doubting Thomases" had first-hand information on the subject. Overwork, worry, shock, grief, financial or domestic difficulties, a loss of sleep, a monotonous existence; in short, everything disturbing the functions of brain and nervous systems, results in nerve strain. One must be content to do a reasonable share of the work of earth, and not endeavor to shoulder the weight of the universe. It is well to recall the words of Omar: "When you and I behind the veil are past, Oh, but the long, long, while the world shall last, Which of our coming and departure heeds As the Seven Seas should heed a pebble cast." Learn, then, to heed the warning of taut nerves — lest they snap — since no mortal is exempt from nervous breakdown. It is far from being a luxury of the rich. These warning symptoms are: extreme irritability and consequent loss of color and flesh, lack of interest in the vital things of life, melancholy, and often an inability to sleep. A peculiar phase of this condition is an obstinate constipation. Later the warning symptoms become exaggerated and finally end in total collapse. The mental condition ranges from slight melancholia, accompanied by frequent or persistent hallucinations, to a grave form of insanity. A person exceeding the limit of his strength, using coffee, tea, strychnine or other stimulant, to give them false vigor, HEALTH DEPARTMENT. 275 should engrave upon the tablets of his mind the motto, "Hasten slowly." If given to visualizing trouble and disaster, he should join a "Don't Worry Club." Women are the principal victims of monotony — women of limited mental resources, having too much work — and no recreation— living on isolated ranches. They usually become patients in an insane asylum, and remind one in their listless and hopeless despondency of some wounded, dumb creature, which though denied articulation, proclaims in its eyes the heartlessness of the world's thoughtless neglect. On the first appearance of the danger signals, the sufferer threatened with "nervous breakdown" should have, if possible, a change of scene, food, and associates, for a time, at least. If unable to leave his home or work, he should go to bed early — should be resting, if not sleeping, in a dark room by eight or nine o'clock at night, since rest in the recumbent position, simple, nourishing food, plenty of water, fresh air, sleep, baths — in fact a strict observance of the "Word of Wisdom," are imperative. Study and even reading, except light, entertaining literature, must be suspended. Correspondents must be absolutely forgotten. None save cheerful, hopeful visitors should be tolerated. Massage is an aid to recovery, and electrical treatments are often dangerous. A person having sensible relatives can be given sanitarium treatment in his own home, and thus be spared trouble and expense. There can be no better warning given to one threatened with "nervous breakdown" than the well-known sign displayed at railroad crossings, "Stop! Look! Listen!" DEVICE REMAKES WORN-OUT RUBBER FOOTGEAR. A machine which vulcanizes patches, soles, and heels on worn rubber boots and shoes, making them as waterproof as if they were new, is the invention of an Ohio cobbler. The apparatus is fitted with adjustable arms and forms which may be made to fit into any part of the footwear and hold it firmly in place during the repairing operation. Several pairs may be mended in this way at one time, the addition of a new piece of work to the machine not interrupting that already in progress. With this device, a boot which has suffered the loss of a sole or toe may be made serviceable again by a simple operation.