In the Kitchen Laboratory. PAYING MORE THAN NECESSARY. Article II — (Vegetables.) From about the first of April until the new vegetables are coming in from our own gardens, in June and July, is the most difficult time to keep the grocery bill where it should be, and yet have the family properly nourished. Vegetables shipped here from California, during these months, are altogether too high to be used by people with limited means. For instance, ripe tomatoes at thirty cents per pound, is throwing money away. As they appear in the market, I grant they are tempting; but I am sure you will agree with me, after one has paid the price and carried them home and even dressed them in one's finest mayonnaise, they are as a rule disappointing. At best, tomatoes have very little food value, indeed. They are composed principally of water, and unless they can be produced cheaply, we, who count the pennies, better look some other place for water. Do not misunderstand, nor let me give the impression that tomatoes are of no use; indeed no. But in buying early tomatoes, let us stop and think, am I paying more than necessary? Asparagus at twenty-five and thirty cents per pound is not worth the money. Be patient just a week or so longer, and Utah and Idaho will give you plenty from their soil. And then, as this vegetable gets cheaper, use it frequently. There is not a vegetable so good for cleansing the system as asparagus. If you pay more than necessary, and buy when it is high, the chances are the family will be tired of it long before it is gone. New potatoes is another example of a raise in the grocery bill. While you are waiting for your own garden to ripen, let rice, good dried corn, macaroni, or even bread, take the place of potatoes on the diet. The use of canned vegetables — I refer to those bought at the store — is an expensive habit, although a time-saving one. Economic recipes that give all that is required by the body: RECIPES. Cream of Wheat requires four times its bulk of boiling water. Boil hard five or ten minutes; add salt and then cook in a double boiler six to eight hours. Beef Roulette. Buy a full round steak cut one-half inch IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 273 thick. Remove the bone, and then prepare a dressing as you would for fowls: bread crumbs, onion, salt, pepper; a little sage if desired. Now spread this over the steak; roll and tie. Put into a hot kettle with some fat and sear all over. Add enough water to keep from burning, and cover closely and cook slowly until tender — usually about three and one-half hours. Cream Roll. 3 eggs. ½ c. sugar. ½ c. thin cream or milk. 1 t. lemon. 4 t. baking powder. 3 c. of sifted flour. Beat eggs thoroughly, add sugar, milk, flour, baking powder, flavoring. Bake in a large dripper in quick oven. Have ready a towel wrung from cold water as dry as possible. Invert pan on the towel, and roll the cake immediately. It may be unrolled when cold and filled with any desired filling. Whipped cream is especially nice. SPAGHETTI A LA BICHETTE. One-half lb. of spaghetti One-half can of tomatoes, drain off liquid, or two large, ripe, peeled tomatoes. One-fourth lb. of butter One-half lb. of cheese One-half teaspoon of salt, same of paprika. Cook spaghetti half an hour, then drain in colander ten minutes. Put butter in saucepan and toss the drained spaghetti for five minutes in the butter, stirring constantly. Add tomatoes, paprika and cheese. Stir another five minutes; put all in a granite pan, and set on the upper lid of a hot oven for ten minutes. This makes one of the finest spring dishes ever eaten. OATMEAL AND DATES. Cook oatmeal over night and one-half hour before ready to serve, add stoned dates. RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE. 1 cup rice. 2 teaspoons salt. ½ cup tomatoes. ¼ t. pepper. ¼ lb. cheese. Wash rice, add it slowly to 5 cups boiling water, salted. Boil 20 to 30 minutes. Evaporate water by leaving it partly covered on a low fire. Add tomatoes strained or unstrained, and pepper. Pour into vegetable dish and grate cheese on top, or put it in alternate layers.