Clothing. June Ideas for Our Daughters and Granddaughters. By The Two Sarahs. Our minds and purposes are so often exercised with the necessary preparation of clothing for our young graduates and brides in this lovely spring season that we give place to an economical and wise discussion of these two points in this Magazine. THE GRADUATE'S DRESS. The sweet girl graduate — how we rejoice with her in her success at this season of the year. Mothers are beginning to plan for the clothing at this important event. It is natural for a parent to want her child to look as well dressed as her neighbors' on this momentous occasion. Where the income is not large, how may she accomplish this without going beyond her means? Let mothers and grandmothers ask themselves these questions: Have I laid away a small amount at the end of each month so as to lighten this expense? Have I had the happy thought to make one piece of dainty underwear during the winter season? And to be prepared for this occasion, have I encouraged my daughter to crochet dainty lace or embroidery to trim a garment, in her spare moments, or have I asked her to deny herself a matinee or moving picture-show, so it will be possible for her to have these necessaries? To avoid making fathers feel they will have to mortgage the home to meet all the demands made upon them, mothers should teach their daughters to be saving and thrifty, by their own example. To be poor is no disgrace, but the heavy weight of debt discourages the best of fathers, and is the real cause of many unhappy homes. There is, as a rule, two occasions in a girl's life, when she feels she is of some consequence. The first, when she graduates. The second, when she becomes a bride. The simplicity of the costume on the first occasion should be pronounced; the extreme dress of some of our young girls is quite unnecessary, and shows lack of judgment and taste. The white wool and cotton voile will laundry well, and sells for 30 cents to $1.00 per yard. It is serviceable and stylish, and may be trimmed with lace insertion. When the insertion is stitched on and the material cut from underneath, it makes an effective and inexpensive trimming. Soft mulls are also effectively used. The 
 soft white taffeta girdle, the silk gloves with shoes and hose to match, with the immaculate underwear, the hair dressed simply and girlishly (not bobbed up like that of a woman of fifty), the bright face beaming with intelligence and health — Nature's best gifts, which we are apt to prize the least, all these make an ensemble of youth and beauty that will delight the heart of any mother or grandmother. COST OF GRADUATING DRESS. 5 yards Cotton Voile (30 cents per yard) $1.50 1 bolt insertion 50 yards 2½ yards lace edging 6 inches wide ($.25 per yard) 15 ribbon 50 1 pair hose 50 1 pair shoes, or slippers 2.00 1 pair white gloves 
 $5.65 The preparing of her trousseau should be the most pleasant experience of a girl's life. Much of her individuality, her real self, should be expressed in the creation, execution, and finishing off of these dainty pieces of wearing apparel. How exquisite each one is, especially if the workmanship is of the girl's own hands. Simplicity of style and design will mark the linen clothes, made by a sweet, pure, refined girl. And her conception of all that is lovely and delicate will be evident in the planning, making, and folding away in the chest, of these wonderful creations. A girl will always remember her first article made for the bride-chest. The wise one will follow out the good old English plan, and first prepare her house linen. What a heritage of thrift comes to the girl, whose mother had a goodly supply of beautiful, pure, white, snowy linen to begin her housekeeping with! And with what pride she will treasure a piece of table or bed linen that belonged to her mother's trousseau. The wise mother has a twofold object in view when she says to her young daughter, "Here's some pillow-slips; you may make them, scallop them, and then keep them for your own." Again on her birthday, "Here is a nice piece of linen, when worked, it will make a pretty sideboard scarf and some towels you may embroider." The girl becomes interested, and starts unconsciously to prepare for that great event in her life — marriage. She soon learns to love this beautiful preparatory labor, and makes all kinds of little CLOTHING. 271 sacrifices to purchase and make articles of linen and to obtain material for quilts. The thrifty German fraulein and English maid, have this thought drilled into them early in life; in fact, it is almost a part of their religion, to have a nice lot of linen all prepared by their own hands, when the time comes for them to wed. A bride feels exalted in her home, when she brings to it the actual result of years of labor and thought. Whoever heard of a girl going into this new life, so well equipped, wanting a divorce; such an idea would be absurd! This dwelling upon the hope and ideal of marriage and domestic independence is a sure anchor to a girl's soul. After the linen, comes the underclothes and lingerie. Again, the thoughtful mother aids her girl by suggesting good material, purchased by the bolt, such as longcloth, nainsook, and cambric. Then let the girl buy or design her own patterns. Don't have them too elaborate; it is not good taste. Corsets, hose, shoes and gloves all should be in perfect taste, and like the rest of the trousseau, within the girl's expected income. When actually purchasing the trousseau note these points: For the house dress, use percale — only 25 cents per yard, and 36 inches wide. The linen rick-rack, finishing braid, and narrow colored embroidery are charming for the trimmings of these modest house gowns. MRS. LUCY MACK SMITH CARTER, a Spring Bride of 1915.