A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. As Abram crossed a side street, some merchants sitting cross-legged in front of their shops in the western bazaars, salaamed to the young man with profound obeisance. "Who may that young sun-god be?" quoth a companion who had only salaamed because his older comrades did the same. The speaker was the new arrival from Damascus, and his rich stores of embroideries were not so curiously wrought as were the quick fancies of his well-trained mind. "That — why that is Prince Abram — that you saw yesterday morning — the richest and most powerful young satrap in this Assyrian plain. As I told thee, he hath spent all his young life with his father's father Shem, in the quiet streets of distant Salem; he is just now returned to Ur. His father is the owner of ships and gold of great ransoms, of nose and ankle ornaments, shawls such as you have never dreamed about for embroidered beauty; jewels so bright and glorious that the vaults beneath the palace walls shine just as bright at midnight stroke as when the sun would light their murky depths." "And is his father's wealth the cause of all your low devotion to this comely youth?" "Nay, Eleazer, we have known his life through good repute and honor his character. All Ur doth this day sing his praise. For if we are so sunk in sense of honor that we know no difference twixt desire and delight, we yet know manliness whene'er we hap upon it. That's rare enough — Elkanah knows — these days of grasping kings and sordid courtiers. We must keep up with them — good Eleazer. So we never scruple to squeeze their money-pouches when we get the chance." "And is that all the reason why you honor Prince Abram?" At that shrewd comment even on his present companions, the elder merchant laughed, and all the wrinkles in his bronze brown skin shaded into deep-cut rivers of glee as he cried — "May the Lord Elkanah Merodach with Libnah and Korash-Ishta reward thee for a brilliant youth to guess at what we would fain conceal from such bright questioning as yours. As the god Korash loves thy soul, we all do him reverence — not for his beauty nor for his wealth alone — for these be men of Assyria who cannot change her customs, nor would they deny nature. I am Javan, from far-off Tarshish. This Abram is a learned man; forsooth, he knows far more about the stars and suns of god-like power 
 than even — come close — for I speak this carefully in the open market-place — this Abram hath so much learning in his head that even the Pharaoh hath made him his close friend. And once a year he goeth down to Egypt and sitteth on the throne of Pharaoh to please that crafty monarch, while discoursing loftily of all the hidden truths of Isis and Osiris. This past two years, the king's son Mardon, distant kinsman of Abram hath been dwelling in Terah's palace, stirring up envy, strife, vanity and idolatry. Oh, but Mardon is a smooth blade, tempered and keen, cruel as death. This kingdom of the Assyrians is only half itself, and half the chattel mortgage of the Pharaoh. So you may see that very few of those who dwell in Ur of Chaldea can afford to offend this learned youth, long known as the Nameless Prince, the friend of Pharaoh and Prince of Ur in his own right." The Damascus merchant was silent. He had marked the high purpose, the clear and beautiful brown eye, the firm chin and the exalted beauty of that kingly form and countenance, and his heart was stirred within him with profound emotion. He was quite persuaded that no one who ever came into the Prince Abram's presence could escape the same thrill of reverent admiration. Envy might seek to slay, but even envy looked into the face of Abram with that veneration that Abram looked upward into the eyes of the stars. As the ponderous gate of his father's palace wall shut on its hinges, Abram turned to find a charming dark-haired girl crouched low under its archway, her finger on her lip and her glossy hair shrouding her lithe young shoulders like a midnight cloud. He was startled. "Irit," he cried with chiding in his voice; but she flung herself into his arms with a merry shout of elfin glee, and clung to his arms, her own too slight to permit her to clasp them around the neck of her handsome kinsman. "What mischief are you up to now, Irit? It is not seemly for a daughter of the House of Terah to romp and play like rude damsels of the plains. What now — what now?" The girl flung herself from his arms in sudden pouting, but he caught her — as she knew he'd do — and with the kindest touch of brotherly forbearance, he said, — "Little kinswoman, you must learn to know the habits of a princess. It is not seemly thus to scamper. You might find another than a friend when thus you hide in this grim, darkened gate-place to spring upon the unthinking." "I knew 'twas you, dear Abram. My heart is better than any dial to foretell your time of coming and going. Thou hast been home but a day. but a day is a thousand years, sometimes, my kinsman. Why do you chide? If this were Sarai, you'd be more A PRINCE OF UR. 281 gentle, more pleased. She always gets free welcome from everyone— she does — from both eyes and voice, and from glowing cheek of both men and maids. I am not such a child; my heart is big with love. And why you treat me so; I may not even guess." This open acknowledgment was set down to her extreme youth by the grave young man who smoothed her glossy hair and pushed it back with slow caresses from the low and lovely forehead. She was very charming. Like the wayward wind in spring time dawn, or like the opal tints on that famed lake in Babylon's hanging gardens — this child was molded half of fire and half of charm. But she was very vain and wilful also. "I do not please my lord. He does not scruple thus to chide. Yet, if I were only fair and very tall, like Sarai, you'd still forget my wilfulness and blush whenever I might look your way." He put the teasing child away from him. His soul hated the small and carping threads of jealousy which cover up some lovely natures with the film network of diseased selfishness. There was a noble self respect — a half jealous watchfulness of dignity and justice that he himself could understand and do ample reverence to; but the petty mean self-centered thrust of small souls who see no wish but theirs, who fathom no depths but their own shallow desires — this temperament in men or women antagonized Abram. But he would not say so. Least of all, would he wound this trifling, sweet, and charming kinswoman who was thus hurriedly seeking to wind herself into his very life through every witchery known to woman. He strongly suspected that if he would as quickly return her love that she might not be half so complaisant to his wishes. That love denied, she would pursue him with relentless determination to secure it for her prize. Irit knew well that Abram was very rich, and very handsome. They walked onward, the servants preceding Abram with marks of reverent devotion. The couple crossed the gardens, with their hanging vines of purple grapes, the great groves of golden date palms and beautiful acacia trees, the creeping glory of the passion-flowers and the gleaming beauty or hideous malignity of a thousand statues of large and small gods that stood at every turn of the walks. Perfumes from a thousand tropical flowers stole into the nostrils, while overhead a thousand singing birds were flitting in the shade of dark green apricot trees, or twittering low on nests in this the heated even-tide hour. The frown on Abram's brows deepened with every step. "You never bow to Elkanah's image, nor will you even give a glance at Korash in all her naked beauty. What makes you thus, O cousin Abram? Do not these gods deserve our homage? Just in passing, may we not conciliate them a little I know, for Sarai hath told me often enough, how far above them all the great 
 God Jehweh is, yet it will surely do no harm to pay a little reverence to the gods who govern all Chaldee." The petty nature of the lovely child, who could not or would not see the depths of the great truth which Sarai had so long tried to teach her — that she nor any descendant of Shem and Eber should give homage to any but the God of heaven — this again roused his soul, and gave him a feeling of profound sadness. He would not even glance her way as she passed each shrine, doing obeisance to each one of those ill-favored gods which looked down from their marbled or stone pedestals with grim ugliness as if they understood the passing contest of wills. "It is no use, my cousin. If our princess Sarai hath tried to show you that the human heart cannot be divided in its reverence, what further success would I meet? If we would worship the God who brought our father Adam here on earth, the God who saved our great father Noah in the ark, we must not worship — nay not one bow at the shrines of other gods. The God of heaven is a jealous God; and He will not brook our half-allegiance. This is quite as much to bless and help us in the fight we wage here on the earth, as it is because He will not tolerate the idol-worship which leads to such licentiousness. You have seen enough of the sinful practices: you have guessed; indeed, have you not visited those courts of idol-worshipers, dear cousin, to view for thine own self the awful orgies of wickedness and sin which mark their yearly festivals?'' The question was a shrewd guess. It hit too near was answer. would not "Well, Abram" — the glancing eyes were very tender in their sophistry, as she looked up innocently at him — "if this is all so evil, why does our father Terah set up these very gods in this our palace gardens?" The blow struck — just where she meant it should, straight to the heart of the man who stood beside her in those shaded gardens on the Assyrian plains. Standing as they did on the high parapet of the garden walls, he could see out over the rich fields and date groves, waving fields and mighty river, and as he noted, the pilgrims who were journeying to and fro below the city walls and as well as in the streets of his own beautiful city, he saw them all pause each time they reached the idols in the city, he saw them all pause each time they reached the idols in the highway, and bow in reverence to the horrid images of wood and stone. His heart grew sick as he realized that the royal dedication of the new temple of Ur was at hand, and he recalled the awful scenes of carnage and sin that would be witnessed in the temple of the highest god, Elkanah. This child, she who seemed so innocent, so guileless, so void of guile; she had thus opened for him a corner of her soul that had best remained hidden. With quick intuition he instantly divined that she had not thus questioned A PRIXCE OF UR. . 283 him from out of her innocency, but purposely to catch him with her guile. Ah, that his great and good father Terah could thus temporize with sin, and give to such babes and sucklings as this lovely child a knife with which to stab himself and Abram! Without a word, Abram gently unloosed the clinging arms of the girl, and with a courtly bow, he turned away and sought the privacy of his own secluded apartments. that "Fool I was," that not he would one word the allow murmured about have girl. "I might of irreverence our known father Terah. Fool I was! My temper and my tongue will yet betray me into deadly sin." Then with a deep sigh she buried her face in her hands, and leaning on the wall of the parapet she cried with bitter sobs. She was suddenly interrupted. A low yet manly voice whispered.— '"What is it, lovely cousin? Who has thus wounded thee? Is it Sarai? How cruel to taunt thee with her lips. But she loves you Irit, she does, for I have heard her say so." The girl turned at the interruption, and she gazed for a moment into the dark thin face beside her with a half mocking smile upon her lips. Yet she said, seriously enough, with a little catch in her breath, begotten of her sobbing, — "My dear cousin Lot, you frighten me. Why do you speak so suddenly in mine ear? I am not crying for Sarai's sake. Nor for any one's. 'Tis only that my favorite maid Orbah hath just now left me for service in the Temple courts. 'Tis true that Mardan hath beguiled her; but that is quite enough. My heart is torn with sadness to part with such a maid. She was very swift and could dress and perfume my dark tresses with a skill that never could be equaled. I miss her so, I miss her so." The proud girl thus covered up her secret-shamed grief, and permitted her cousin Lot to smooth the tresses about which she seemed to grieve so much. His thin face quivered with emotion as he sought to ease her pain. He was not fair-favored and his tall ungainly form often caused this naughty child much mirth as she saw him ambling about the palace walks, or sitting at ease in the council chamber of his fathers. But he was grace and fleetness itself when he strode a horse; and Irit forgave him much for the splendid daring of his charge in battle, and his devotion, nay worship, of her own pretty self. Lot might lack the frank manliness of nature which so well became his elder kinsman, Abram, just returned; but he was true to that which Abram believed, and this would hold Abram and Lot more closely in bonds of friendship than any other bond, throughout the future years. "Come. Irit, be comforted. I will go down into the marketplace myself, and buy you such a maid as will make you soon forget the other trustless wench. Come, dry thy tears. Let us go 
 to the palm groves; I have something I would say to thee in that perfume-laden spot. My heart is very full of something that I fain would breathe to thee," Irit could well afford to listen to any unguarded word of love from her dear cousin Abram; but when another spoke she was quite able to retreat into the wounded dignity of the oriental maiden who must be sought through proper channels of courtship and long subtleties of marriage customs in the eastern lands where men first spoke to maidens after Noah's sons had once more peopled all the earth. "Be guarded, O my cousin!" she cried primly. "Remember that thy tongue hath now forgot what is due a princess of the house of Terah. Talk not of light and sinful love to me, who am thy nearest kinswoman." The dark-skinned man beside her flushed with the tartness of her quick rebuke. But he said no more. He was not lacking in a slow and manly dignity of bearing that would not brook too much from any, be he slave, or prince. Just as he turned away, the girl caught his arm and said gaily, — "Don't be wounded, dear, my cousin. I shall listen, mayhap, when the time is ripe. Meanwhile, you must not disturb the dreams of such a child as I am. For there are years and years to come, when you and I may learn to know each other in a new relation." The brown eyes looked shyly from under the penciled brows, and the ripe lips parted in a mischievous smile as she loosed her hold upon his arm. Abram might not be won — but Lot must not be lost. If one should fail — well, who could blame a girl for seeking constantly to find herself a proper mate for life. "Will you coax our father Terah to let me go with the next train to visit at the courts of Ninevah or Babylon? Or better still — why shall we not all go when next the Pharaoh sends for Abram to pay his yearly visit at the city on the Nile? Say, cousin, will you promise me to coax our father thus to honor us? Why should it always be our kinsman Abram, who lives in other lands and he alone to share in these great honors? If Abram were generous, or even just, he would not thus be ever remaining away and leaving us to pine in loneliness." "In loneliness? Why, what makes you speak of loneliness? It does not seem to matter that our father Terah, the princesses Sarai and Iscah, and my humble self, beside the many friends and servants of the palace are left behind? What ails thee, pretty kinswoman?" The girl saw she had gone too far, and so with that quick guile which was so much a part of her, she cried, — "O don't mind me — I am teasing you, to make you say that you will take me, and our kinswoman Sarai to the lovely city of Ninevah for the yearly worship of Merodach." (to be continued.)