The April Conference. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The Annual conference of the Relief Society was held Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, with a large attendance from practically all the stakes of the Church. Two public sessions were held on Friday in the Salt Lake Assembly hall; and on Saturday, two officer's meetings were held in the Assembly room of the Bishop's building. The Saturday morning meeting was a business session, and the afternoon was devoted to department work. The music, which was a special feature of the conference, was under the direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, who had spared no pains in her effort for excellence in the program; the Relief Society choir which gave the opening and closing numbers of the general sessions, deserved special mention for its work. The following numbers were given by the choir: "Lead us, O Father," "Praise ye the Father," "Work for the Night is Coming," "Palm Branches," "Ave Maria," and "Sanctus." Special musical numbers included: organ solo, organist, Edna Coray; vocal duet, Laurinda P. Brewerton and Don Priestly; instrumental music, Prof. Willard Weihe and Prof. J. J. McClellan; tenor solo, Robert Siddoway; solo, Lizzie Thomas Edward; and a duet. "Come Unto Me," from Handel's Messiah, by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Agnes Olsen Thomas, accompanied by Edna Coray, organ; Frank Asper, flute; Vaughn Clayton, violin. The meetings of the conference were presided over by the President, Emmeline B. Wells, who, at the opening session, extended an affectionate greeting to those in attendance. She expressed thanks and gratitude for the condition of peace which prevails in this country today, and sorrow for suffering humanity in Europe. Mrs. Wells congratulated the Relief Society members on the excellent reports received at the Office, and prayed for all to be blessed with perfect faith, which she maintains is the greatest joy and comfort obtainable. ^Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, president of the Alpine stake Relief Society, responded to the president's address of welcome. Mrs. Hindley paid an eloquent tribute to President Wells, and said her life had been an inspiration to all women. She also expressed gratitude and appreciation for all the work of the General Board, and especially for their efforts in relation to the Magazine, and the outlines for study contained therein. Stake reports were made as follows: Boise stake, by Laura J. Adamson; Ogden stake, bv Vincv R. Barker. THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 261 It was reported that the Relief Society in both these stakes is in a good condition. The Boise stake is a little over a year old. It covers a large area, taking in twelve counties; and from the extreme east to the extreme west, it is 400 miles. Mrs. Adamson reported that, since the beginning of the year, the stake president had traveled over 5,000 miles in visiting the stake. The speaker expressed appreciation for the Magazine and especially for the Guide work. Mrs. Vincy R. Barker gave an interesting report of the genealogical work done in the Ogden stake, stating that through special and systematic work, they had succeeded in arousing such interest with their 565 genealogical workers, that 935 family charts have been begun, and 615 historical sketches written. Mrs. Mary A. Howell, wife of Congressman Howell, addressed the audience briefly, stating that although she had been away from Utah a good many years, she had not lost interest in the Relief Society organization and its beautiful work. Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, President of the North Weber stake, gave an address on Art. She gave a brief outline of the history of art, tracing it through the early Italian period, down to modern painting, mentioning briefly the most noted painters. She praised the work of the Utah artists, and urged all Utahns to give them greater encouragement in the future than they have had in the past. At the Friday afternoon session, addresses were made by Martha A. F. Keeler, president of Utah stake, and Elder B. H. Roberts, with remarks by President Wells, and Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith. Mrs. Keeler's subject was "The Scope of Relief Society Work." She spoke of the great membership of the Society, its affiliation with the National Council of Women, its Magazine, containing a course of study, and its broad fields of work and activity. She felt that membership in this organization is a prize that cannot be too highly valued. The chief work of the Relief Society is ministering to those in need, and developing spirituality in its own members, but the women who compose the organization are pleased also that other fields of activity are open to them. They are progressive, and reach out for information and for cultural work of many kinds. They are experiencing much success and satisfaction in genealogical research and temple work, in literature, in the art of homemaking, and other lines. This condition is attractive to the progressive, and will no doubt bring hundreds into the Society. The membership of the Relief Society should comprise every woman in the Church. It is very desirable that our membership increase and include the young women, that they may be trained to carry the work forward. It has long been the desire of all concerned, that 
 more of the young women identify themselves with the organization, and every effort should be made to bring this about. In order to attract a large majority of women, the work must be broad enough to afford a variety of subject matter to meet the tastes, talents and righteous ambitions of a large body of persons. It should be remembered that the present generation of young women is made up largely of girls who have had training and education. A wise president will therefore use this well prepared material as it comes to the Society. There is work for the old, and the young, and room for all in the Relief Society. Mrs. Keeler spoke of the great work of the teacher, and suggested that in addition to doing the special material work connected with the Relief Society, our teachers be trained along the same lines as the teachers in the priesthood. The speaker pleaded for progress in the individual societies, and for the adoption of any plans, devices, or methods that will secure the greatest good to the greatest number. Elder B. H. Roberts gave an eloquent address, his subject being, "What does Christ mean to you and to me?" He dwelt forcibly on the immeasurable influence which the Savior has upon the human race. He compared his influence to the rays of the sun, which radiate their light and heat everywhere. Christ's life and character made an especial appeal to women, because of their strong spirituality, said the speaker, and he finds in them his most loyal followers. This is proved, said Elder Roberts, in the case of the women with whom Christ associated here on the earth. Mary and Martha were among the first to the cross, and, after the burial, the first to visit the tomb, and when the faith of the apostles wavered, these women never faltered in their confidence that Christ would return. The speaker paid an eloquent tribute to motherhood and the mother's mission in life. He drew a parallel between them and the creative and sustaining power of Christ. The two things we worship in Christ, said Elder Roberts, are his power as a creator, and his power as a sustainer, a guide. The speaker said he often reflected on which of these powers is the greater. To them he compared motherhood and mothering — in motherhood the power of creating, and in mothering the function of taking care of the little souls placed in the keeping of mothers. Of these two functions he placed mothering as the highest, for motherhood is a power shared by practically all womankind, but the strength and the wisdom to "mother" properly, to control righteously, the destiny of little children, is a much rarer gift. Other Christian sects, said the speaker, say that Christ is an impersonal being, in order to explain his omnipresence. They have an erroneous idea, declared the speaker. Christ is a personal being, omnipresent in the sense that his power and influence extend throughout the universe. He is the source of our intelligence, inspiration, and understanding. Christ is the perTHE APRIL CONFERENCE. 263 fect expression of God's love. How great that love is is explained by the fact that God so loved the world that he gave his only Begotten Son to redeem it. Yet Christ's love for the human race is quite equal to that of God's, as was shown in the supreme sacrifice involved in the atonement. The speaker concluded by pointing out the necessity of accepting Christ by faith and obeying his commandments. It would be easy for us to obey him, he said, if he were our constant companion, but it requires strength to emulate him separated from him as we are. Counselor Julina L. Smith dwelt clearly and forcibly on the duties of the Latter-day Saint woman. She enumerated as the first and most important duty of all, that which each woman owes to her home, her children and her husband. After fulfilling these, she should search for other spheres of activity. The most important duty outside the home is that of the Relief Society. It will bring the greatest development and the most happiness. Mrs. Smith urged with great force the careful training of children religiously and morally. To this problem every mother should bend her best efforts because of the sacredness of the duty laid upon her as a parent. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams' address was one of felicitation to the various societies. She extolled the remarks of Mrs. Keeler and the excellent work being done in Utah stake. Not only here but elsewhere the members of the Relief Society are doing a great work, she said. She expressed an especial appreciation for the support given the General Board and the Magazine. She recalled the words of Mrs. Marriott, in the morning session, to the effect that we should be appreciative of the good our friends do while they are alive instead of letting them pass away apparently unappreciated. President Wells gave a few closing instructions in which she urged the members to remember their spiritual duties, and also to remember that love and charity should be the foundation of all our Relief Society work. OFFICERS' MEETINGS. The two officers' meetings held on Saturday were largely attended. The roll call showed the following representation: Board members, 16; stakes represented, 56 — 35 being represented by presidents, 16 by stake officers, 3 by local officers, and 2 by members. One mission was represented, that of the Northwestern States, by Martha Ballard. The Josepa colony was represented by the Relief Society president of the colony. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary. This report showed that 
 the Society is growing and expanding in every direction. During the last year, the number of branches has increased from 748 to 838, and the membership, including the missions, from 36,697 to 37,979, an increase of 1,282 during the last year. Our present membership is made up of officers, 4,758; teachers, 11,354, members 21,867— making a total of 37,979. Reports were given from the various committees as follows: Relief Society Home — Rebecca N. Nibley; Temple and Burial Clothes, Counselor Julina L. Smith; Peace, Emily S. Richards; Nurse School, Phoebe Y. Beattie; Special Missionary Work, Sarah M. McLelland; Magazine, Clarissa S. Williams; Public Health, Alice M. Home; Correlation Committee, Clarissa S. Williams. These reports showed that progress is being maintained in all lines of work and activity. The remaining time of the session was devoted to a lively discussion of various subjects relating to Relief Society work in general. At the department meeting, the work of the various departments of the Society was considered. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, gave instructions on the compiling of reports, explaining in detail the new report blank. Mrs. Emma A. Empey, General Treasurer, gave instructions as to the handling of funds and the appointment in the different departments. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams explained the lesson work contained in the Guide and announced that suggestions for making out the course of study for next year — especially in the matter of literary work — were desired from the stake officers. The Genealogical Department was represented by Susa Young Gates who gave a complete report of the genealogical work in the various societies. She gave many valuable suggestions as to the preparation of living records. To awaken an interest in the preparation of genealogical records, and to teach the sisters how to prepare their information, are the two important points to be emphasized. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home discussed the art work of the Relief Society. She called upon officers from various parts of the Church to describe beautiful scenes in their locality to furnish an example of what should be encouraged among Relief Society members. She urged her listeners to observe the beautiful in nature, and to encourage all efforts made by artists to express beauty either by chisel, brush or pen. The last report was by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde on insurance. She pointed out the benefits of the insurance department, and explained the different policies which the society is offering. It was suggested by Georgina G. Marriott that all stake presiTHE APRIL CONFERENCE. 265 dents go home with the determination to exert themselves to sell as much insurance as possible. The suggestion was endorsed by Annie W. Clark. Annie W. Clark, in behalf of the visiting members, expressed appreciation to the Board for the generous entertainment given them during the Conference. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings were held at odd hours during the conference to discuss more in detail the following subjects: Art and Architecture, Genealogy and Insurance. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home gave a very able lecture on art. The meeting on Architecture was addressed by Don Carlos Young, Jr., who gave a brief outline of the fundamental principles of architecture, and gave some valuable advice on building a home. At the special meeting on Genealogy, the Genealogical Excursion to California in July was dwelt upon, and the stake presidents were informed that delegates would be invited from each ward and stake to attend. It was also decided to hold a genealogical convention in October, when the usual genealogical classes will be taught. The meeting on Insurance was remarkably well attended, the interest in the insurance movement in the Relief Society was found to be constantly increasing. John D. Giles gave an address, and answered many questions on the subject of insurance. He emphasized the fact that the Relief Society insurance plan is independent of the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. The latter institution simply assuming the responsibility of its risks. Friday evening the General Board gave a Musical in honor of visiting officers at headquarters. There was a fine attendance and the program, which was under the direct charge of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, was artistic and enjoyable. Light refreshments were served, and a general good time was enjoyed. The following artists assisted on the program: Becky Almond, Evangeline Thomas, Hugh Dougall, John T. Hand, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Amy Farnsworth, Relief Society Ladies' Chorus, Mattie Cozier, Blanche Cozier, Vaughan Clayton, Frank Asper, Skelton's Ladies' String Orchestra. Altogether the conference was voted by all present as the most interesting and profitable one held in many years.