Genealogy. Ogden, Utah, March 31, 1915. General Genealogical Committee Relief Society: In reply to your letter of recent date will say: First. We have genealogical committees in all of our ten wards, but they are not permanent. They were organized to meet the requirements of the specific purpose we desired to accomplish. This purpose was the accumulation of material in such shape that it can be used at a future time in compiling a permanent genealogical record of our stake. The Stake Presidency are considering the organization of a permanent Stake Committee. Second. Temple excursions are arranged by the Priesthood and not by the Relief Society. Third. The campaign of record books is in our future plans. Fourth. The Temple funds collected are used for the poor in the wards under the advice of the bishops. Fifth. Note our failures and successes in the enclosed report and the one rendered to you in December. Sixth. Our future plans are being developed. Cannot report on them at present. Respectfully, Vincy R. Barker, Chairman, Gen. Committee. CIRCULAR OF SPECIAL GENEALOGICAL WORK. Ogden Relief Society, Winter 1915. During January, February, and March, the Special Genealogical work must take precedence over every other work except the care of the poor and sick. The purpose is to collect material that can be used later in compiling a permanent Genealogical Record of our stake. To do this, it must be standardized, and this is accomplished by the use of charts and forms prepared for this purpose. Keep close to your bishops and abide by their counsel. It is important that a duplicate copy of work be kept in the home to insure reproduction in case of the loss of one by fire or otherwise. Tell the people that we offer our time and best efforts for three months to accomplish this purpose. We especially urge that you emphasize the procuring of the story of ancestors — who, what and where they were — notable positions held in army, navy, government or church. Also follow outline for Historical Sketch on chart. Give accurate names, dates and places for every event, if possible. 
 This is highly important, as this is a new community, peopled under very peculiar circumstances by emigrants from all parts of the globe. We think no other community in the world is made up of people from so many nations and such varied walks in life. Surely we ought to perpetuate in the history of this commonwealth and of the world the identity of our family lines. Remember, we are making history for all future time, and every scrap of genealogical data we can secure will be of untold value to the future generations. Know this, that no time will be more favorable than the present for procuring from our living relatives the information they possess. And now, oh, sisters, do not lose sight of the most important phase of this work, the culmination of all our efforts in the saving of souls. This work will open the door of salvation to thousands of souls, beyond the veil, who are anxiously waiting for Temple ordinances which cannot be performed without records. Many of our own living loved ones are careless and indifferent to the glories of the gospel. Some day they will be reclaimed, but not without the proper records. Shall we, then, neglect the little we can do now to save them hereafter? Shall we fail to record one clue or connecting link that may help another? We are acting under the direction of the presiding authorities of our stake, so let us bend every effort to accomplish the present purpose — the accumulation of material — so that when the time is ripe for compiling a permanent Genealogical Record of our stake, not one person now residing in it shall be left out. We commend all who have faithfully performed their duties in the past and we earnestly pray that during this year each one may labor with even greater zeal that our work may ever tend onward and upward until we reach the goal. May the peace of God be with you. Your sisters, Isabel B. Foulger, Nellie Becraft, Vincy R. Barker, Presidency. REPORT OF SPECIAL GENEALOGICAL WORK OF OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. For Winter 1915, ending March 17. December — Stake Committee organized and developed. January— Ward Committees organized and instructed. Ward divisions made and workers assigned. February and March — Active work in homes. [THIS IS TABLE: A detailed statistical table showing ward-by-ward data for genealogical work including meetings, instruction sessions, and various counts. The table shows data for wards like First and Second, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, North Ogden, Middleton, Eden, Huntsville, Liberty, and Pleasant View with totals at the bottom showing 22876 total names recorded] *Pleasant View and Liberty not reported in full. REPORT OF UTAH STAKE GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEE. We have 19 wards that have genealogical committees; 19 wards that have genealogical classes; 19 wards that have joined in three excursions; 19 have joined in sending $60 to temple for proxy charity work to be done; 19 wards have each some records, in all 460 records have been sold and distributed. Thirty-three Relief Society members belong to the Genealogical Society. We have raised some funds by wholesale purchase and retail sale of records, and blanks; profits being divided between the retail purchaser and genealogical committee. These funds help us to purchase other sheet blanks, etc., for the benefit of our class work, and we keep a surplus in treasury for incidental needs. (Donations to temple are also taken from this amount.) We have been successful in the things we have made practical, and for which we work, work, work. Last summer, we spent one day each week helping individuals start their living records. For this purpose, we ruled paper designating the family tree, and showed each one how to go to work, or rather we helped individuals to fill the actual data in these blanks. This was interesting and helpful. You ask what were our failures? We know no such thing as "fail." We have been discouraged some times at having to repeat so much, but persistence usually wins at last. The plan as you have it in the Magazine should succeed, because it is practice with theory. At present, we have no genealogical chairman in the Stake Committee. Kindest regards, (Signed) Inez Knight Allen.