[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 390 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Absent when the picture was taken were: Helen Kelsey, Second Counselor; Faun King, chorister; Bonnie Lloyd, orgamist; and Rita Holtman, theology class leader. Clara Bevler, newly appointed President, Raft River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A luncheon was held December 29, 1962, honoring the retiring presidency and board members of the Raft River Stake Relief Society. In appreciation for her years of faithful service each sister was presented with a corsage. Besides the honored guests, those in attendance were the new stake officers and board members, President Edwin H. Paskett, of Raft River Stake, and the officers and teachers of all the ward Relief Societies in the stake." Woodruff Stake (Utah and Wyoming) Officers at Visiting Teacher Convention, February 15, 1963 Left to right: Elna Croft, chorister; Amy Mulford, organist; Gweneth Johnson, literature class leader; Clara Schomss, theology class leader; Florence Smith, Work Director Counselor; Charlotte M. Burleigh, President; Jeanette Hopkinson, visiting teacher message leader; Minnie Lowham, social science class leader; Clara Griggs, Secretary; Alpha Richins, work meeting leader; Naomi Harris, Magazine representative. Sister Zelda Jannson, counselor, was not present. Sister Burleigh reports: ""The Woodruff Stake Relief Society held a very successful visiting teacher convention, February 15, 1963. Former Relief Society stake presidents, sisters eighty years of age and over, and visiting teachers having thirty-five or more years of service were presented with a corsage. Souvenir bookmarks were presented to all the sisters present. The table was decorated with small cherry trees and _ silver hatchets. The flower centerpiece was red, white, and blue. The narration "Toward Ideal Womanhood' was presented and enjoyed by all. The Woodruff Ward Singing Mothers presented special music for the occasion, and Elder Lawrence B. Johnson, President, Woodruff Stake, addressed the group."' 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD ii ea? MAY 1963 % ¥. =, O29 aye Central American Mission, Singing Mothers of Guatemala Present Music for First Women's Conference February 23, 1963 Standing at the right in the front row: First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency of Relief Society; standing at the left in the front row: Nina B. Brewer, President, Central American Mission Relief Society; chorister Berta Lopez stands at the right of Sister Brewer. Back row, fourth from the left: Hortensia Torres, Supervisor of Relief Society for the Mission. Sister Brewer reports: "Sponsored by the Relief Society of the Central American Mission, the first conference for the women of the Church and their friends was held in Guatemala February 23, 1963. This conference brought together more than 200 women, along with the district and branch Priesthood officials. Special guest at the conference was Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society. 'During' the morning meeting Sister Sharp emphasized the importance of Relief Society in the lives of Latter-day Saints, and the greatness of the visiting teacher program in the Church. This meeting was held for the benefit of officers and teachers of Relief Society and the Priesthood officials who work with them. "An afternoon meeting was open to all women of the Church and their friends, in addition to those who attended the morning session. The program included numbers by the Singing Mothers of Guatemala, a brief history of Relief Society in Central America, a dramatization of 'Builders of the Kingdom,' by Luacine Clark Fox, presentation of a Relief Society necklace to Sister Hortensia Torres for her long and faithful work in Relief Society, and words of encouragement and instruction from Sister Sharp. "After the second meeting, an exhibition of native arts and crafts was opened to the people. The sisters had redecorated their Relief Society room in honor of the occasion. Exhibited were_paintings by several of the women, typical dresses and other articles of clothing, lovely flower creations, a hooked rug, mosaic pieces, and many other articles of beauty. Outstanding was a banner in Relief.. Society colors, showing the Relief Society seal done in fine embroidery work by oneof the sisters. "The Central American Mission was organized in November 1952, under the direction of the First Presidency, by Elder Spencer W. Kimball, who was accompanied by Elder Bruce R. McConkie of the First Council of Seventy. During its ten years of existence, the membership of the mission has grown to include over 10,000 members. Approximately 180 missionaries are in the field at the present time. "Particularly outstanding in this mission are the faith, testimony, and devotion of the sisters to the gospel of Jesus Christ." 392 NOTES FROM THE FIELD P: sa xz: 5 =: Phoenix Stata f{Arizvanna) Hameamatlklarce f L_cletmeacssn fe Ld 4 ed ' Left to right: Zona Waldie; Fern Shumway; Florence Broberg. Ruth O. Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports: '"Grandma's attic was one of the main features of the fair, displaying many useful and attractive articles made from old clothing. Wards and branches in the stake cooperated with gaily decorated booths of handmade articles and baked goods. 'The entire hall was beautifully decorated in the Christmas theme. Demonstrations of textile painting, cake decorating, flower arranging, gift wrapping, quilting, modeling of homemade clothing, and doll making were held at intervals during the afternoon. "The education and Magazine department booths were centers of attraction, receiving favorable comments from the many nonmembers who attended. Our theme 'Add years to your life; add life to your years through Relief Society activity,' on a poster in Relief Society colors, was placed above the booths. Hot doughnuts. And cider were served during the afternoon to the very large crowd that attended. "It was an excellent missionary project, bringing many nonmembers to see Relief Society in action. Invitations were sent to all the women's clubs and church groups in Phoenix, as well as to active and inactive members of the Church. 'The newspapers gave us a big write-up, along with a picture. The fair was under the direction of Work Director Counselor Marie Heywood and work meeting leader Florence Broberg."' i & g; Ig 


 Utah State University Stake Singing Sisters Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference, February 3, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Dr. Ezra Cragun, High Council representative; Mary Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Nadine Smith, chorister; Mary Christensen, organist; Gwen J. Miner, President, Utah State University Stake Relief Society; Elder Reed C. Bullen, President, Utah State University Stake. Sister Miner reports: ""We have fourteen wards in the Utah State University Stake, eight wards made up of unmarried students, and six of married students. All of the wards were represented in this chorus." Sister Miner's Counselors are Coralle Knight and Yvonne Fillmore. The Secretary is Fern Nelson. Juarez Stake (Mexico) Visiting Teacher Convention January 24, 1963 Fannie B. Hatch, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: ""This group was thrilled with the presentation of 'A Light Shining,' presented first in Spanish, and then repeated in English. The evening was spiritual in nature, as the dramatization stressed in a new way love for and devotion to visiting teaching. To encourage quality performance, the stake board awarded in the convention choice books to those achieving records of 100 per cent in sacrament service attendance, visiting teacher meeting attendance, and visiting teaching. It was a joy to see the sisters receive the books. One native sister was thrilled with the Bible, the book of her choice, a treasure she had longed for. The happy moments of the evening will linger long and warm our hearts as we work, knowing that Relief Society blesses our homes in Juarez Stake through visiting teaching." Chicago Stake (Illinois) Ward and Branch Relief Society Presidents January 13, 1963 Front row, left to nght: Doris Groot, First Counselor, University Ward; Marjorie Oblad, President, South Shore Ward; Naomi Graves, President, North Shore Second Ward; Reta Otis, First Counselor, Chain O'Lakes Ward; Edna Larson, President, Racine Branch; Gladys Sullivan, President, Aurora Branch. Standing, left to right: Helena Belnap, President, DeKalb Branch; Betty Maule, First Counselor, Elgin Branch; Caroline Tegtmeier, President, Milwaukee Ward; Marva Lu Egbert, President, Chicago Heights Ward; Irma Mortensen, President, West Suburban Ward; Mildred Hilbig, President, Milwaukee Second Ward; Beryle A. Nisbet, President, West Suburban Ward; Geneva Young, President, Logan Square Ward; Hertha Rathke, President, West Allis Ward; Jaroldeen Edwards, President, North Shore Ward. Jasmine R. Edmonds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports that this was the last picture taken of the sixteen ward Relief Society officers before the division of Chicago Stake into three stakes on February 3, 1963. Sister Edmonds reports that "These lovely sisters have done much to aid in the growth of the Church in this area." 394 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 


 gm fl roa R sun, 1. ° rr ° Oylwmaniie beak I veil Ral at SGargiaty I Board Honors Ward Presidencies Front row, seated, left to right: First Counselor Verna Lue C. Gledhill; President Evelyn B. Henriksen; Second Counselor Iola J. Peterson; Secretary-Treasurer Thora W. King. Back row, standing, left to right: Glenna B. Brown, Magazine representative; Jean J. Goff, visiting teacher message leader; Zetta C. Tholen, theology class leader; Marilyn C. Williams, literature class leader; Helen G. Rees, social science class leader; Donna W. Tanner, chorister; Faye D. Beazer, work meeting leader; Jennie T. Hintze, organist. Sister Henriksen reports: "Each year preceding our lesson season, the stake Relief Society board entertains all ward presidencies in order to promote a feeling of friendship, love, and cooperation among the wards. This year we had as our theme "The Wheel,' and as our motto 'Help Our Wheel Roll in the Right Direction." Our luncheon tables carried out the theme by being placed so as to form a wheel, a round table as the hub, and long tables as the spokes of the wheel. We also had a wheel made of gold and blue with the General Board of Relief Society as the hub, and the stake Relief Society as the rim. As each ward presidency was introduced, we placed their spoke in our wheel, until all nine wards were represented. The members of the stake board were introduced as wheels in our Relief Society locomotive, with the presidency serving as the steering wheel. "Drucilla Bott, who had recently returned from Australia, was our guest speaker. Truly we felt the sisterhood of Relief Society on this day, as is always the case when the women of our stake meet together in this capacity. We are grateful for our callings in this organization, and appreciate the guidance given through the General Board, and through the inspiration of the Lord."