[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 353 | Poem | Suggestion | Ida Elaine James]
[Suggestion Ida Elaine James]

"Have you any suggestions?" she asked. For a moment I was deeply disappointed. I didn't know that I looked like that. I went to the mirror and compared my face with the one in the portrait. I remembered Robert Burns, "Oh, wad some power the giftie gie us, 'To see oursels as others see us!" In every line and shadow Madame Hygrecko's brushes were right. I tried to hide my feelings, but she saw me massaging my double chin. "But I'm not through yet." The next morning she worked 


 with an almost constant look of satisfaction. Finally she said, "I'm through now." I walked away, leaving her cleaning her brushes. When I came back into the room she had slipped the portrait into a simple frame, and it was facing me on the easel. And now the painting stopped me. Here was not only a picture of how I looked on the outside, but of how I felt on the inside. This wasn't like facing myself in a mirror. It was tather as if I had been in the room before I came in, if this explanation makes any sense. My presence was there in the portrait. The face in the frame wasn't young. It wasn't beautiful. In fact, I had not known before that so much of my hair was gray, or that my chin was so double, or that the lines on my face were so deep. But somehow these things didn't matter. I knew that the artist was right, and I didn't mind at all. It was as if this were an old friend whose looks had ceased to matter. After a time an art critic, a collector of paintings, came to see the portrait. He had never met me, but from the canvas he read my character and personality. Truly my life was pictured in my face. All my life I had heard that each of us makes his own face, but I had never realized what the axiom meant until I watched the portrait grow. When I was born I came into the world with a face like my father's. I had done nothing to that face. The bones were there, the lips, the eyes, all his, as well as mine. Then I began to do subtle things to my face. The face of my "second day" was mine, as well as his. I lived longer, and the face was all mine. And, finally, the face was not only mine, it was me (grammatical error intentional).