[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 378 | Special Feature | Night Sky Ora | Pate Stewart]
IT was ten-thirty on Monday night, January 7, 1963, at Garden Grove, California. We were coming home from a welfare errand. My seventeen-year-old son slowed the station wagon to a stop in our driveway and opened the door for me.

"Oh, Mom! Look at the sky."

The sky, disregarding mountains and construction, began at a ground horizon and arched upward in a perfect dome, round and high — ever so high — and the clouds formed an all-over pattern of square, white pieces fitted together in an artful mosaic like the outer covering of rare marble in the ceiling of an ancient building. The clouds were unusually white for that time of night, and were marked off squarishly with little rivers — something like a massive ice-flow, with the outlines of deep blue water separating the chunks, symmetrical as square marshmallows arranged in a blue bowl. The moon seemed to have the unusual power to shine through, and seemed to move rapidly across the dome with a pale, opalescent rainbow circling it. The stars did not shine through the cloud-flow, but appeared, fleetingly, like furtive silver fishes, glistening through the blue serrations for a second or two, then disappearing under the cloud banks.

A transport plane coming in from the south, winking its alternate red and green wing lights, still too far away to project any more than a faint hum, seemed somewhat out of place: a night moth captured under a great bowl — a single firefly, turning its flicker on and off. Then it settled at a distant airport, perhaps Long Beach. I was glad it had found its port, and I felt an apprehension for any wayfarers of the sky who might not have found their way into this solid canopy.

It was better without the flicker and without the hum. It was a picture unilluminated but for the quiet motions of eternity — a part of the greater mural, and yet a part that could never return again exactly as it was. I have never seen anything just like it in my lifetime. It was a picture with a strange power — the power of beauty, the power of peace, the power of quiet contemplation. I thought of the signs and wonders promised for the last days. I thought of the symmetry and order of the universe. I thought of God.