[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 322 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

I don't think anyone could take The Relief Society Magazine out of the mailbox without at least thumbing through it. I always read the From Near and Far page, if I read nothing else immediately. This page makes me feel close to all the sisters in the Church. The first serial I read was "Because of the Word" (by Hazel M. Thomson). I am sure this story strengthened my testimony. The series of articles about the women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith (by Preston Nibley) was wonderful, too. I have been a member of the Church for two years and have had many blessings since being baptized. I enjoyed the recent serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. The visiting teachers' messages are full of wisdom. All the sisters I visited said they enjoyed the message about using their time wisely.
—Mrs. Jacqueline Rasmussen
Clinton, Iowa

I surely do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I carry one or two of them in my big handbag each time I go out in the car with my husband. While in Seattle last week, I read all of the installments of the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (January to June 1962). I studied her style, and it delighted me very much. She has a real polish, which makes me think she has written a great deal.
—Mrs. Alice Sabin
Yakima, Washington

We receive with great pleasure each month that periodical The Relief Society Magazine. We feel enthusiastic about this Magazine, with all the interesting and stimulating articles and the beautiful pictures, but, in particular, we rejoice in reading the inspiring and poetic novel "Out of the Wilderness" (by Shirley Thulin, concluded in February 1963).
—Anna Marie Vedder
Hamburg, Germany

I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and I especially enjoy the poetry. It gave me much pleasure to see that Christie Lund Coles won the second prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest ("The Home," February 1963). I especially enjoy the poetry by Mrs. Coles and have often quoted her poetry in giving lessons in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in PTA and other places where I have been asked to give talks.
—Betty Green
San Bernardino, California

I was very much impressed with the story "The Home" (by Christie Lund Coles) in the February issue of the Magazine. All of the stories are good, and the Magazine is wonderful, from start to finish. The articles never get old. They can be read time after time, and there is always something new to cherish. I thank all the people who put their time and work and patience into the making of the Magazine.
—Mrs. Violet Pierce
Gunnison, Utah

In the March 1963 issue of the Magazine I enjoyed so much the article "We Can't Be Perfect" by Christie Lund Coles. As the Service leader of our ward Primary, I am planning for each teacher to have a copy of this article.
—Mrs. John J. Merrill
Logan, Utah

I would like to thank you for the very lovely Magazine we are so privileged to receive in our homes every month. I enjoy every page, and have particularly looked forward to the serial story "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and the work meeting lessons on "The Latter-day Saint Home," which are so helpful (by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler).
—Ruth Pepper
Corrimal East
N. S. W., Australia

322
