[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 352 | General Feature | Too Busy? | Annella Barnes]
Annella Barnes H*®: just a little boy. Far too little to create much mischief. And yet — frequently the afternoon's patching has had to be put aside as I hurried to undo the mischief his busy little hands and feet had found — placing the books back on the shelf, wiping up a cup of water, coming back to my patching to find it well scattered. What's wrong with his toys, anyway? I wonder as I retrieve the overalls, scissors, thread, and thimble. Now back to the sewing. No — he's too quiet. I hurry to find him once again. Ah, there he is, playing contentedly with — oh, no! Not my new dress pattern! Striving to control my exasperation, I reach down to gather up my precious pattern, now torn beyond recognition. Two large brown eyes look up at me in smiling delight. How beautiful they are! Laying aside the really not-too-important pattern, I pick him up, and as we sit and rock together, memories carry me back to just a year ago when, in a hospital room, I had stood beside a large white bed holding a baby's tiny form, lying as though any feeble movement would be too much effort for so fragile a person.. Then the nurse had carefully lifted him from the bed and carried him down the hall to the operating room. I sat down to wait, wondering, would this small boy ever live to smile? Would he ever hold anything in his tiny fists? Would I see his first steps? Yet, today, I have resented his trying out each of these talents and scolded him for it. He is young and thirsty for knowledge — knowledge not gained from a few toys long ago understood. Such an alert little boy cannot be expected to be content with the same blocks, the same little wagon, day after day. Forgive me, little one, for being too busy to help you learn. And. Thank you, dear Lord, for one small boy with large smiling brown eyes and busy hands and feet, ever eager to learn. Surely thou hast an important work for this little one. Help me guide him in his quest for truths, and may I always remember this privilege which is mine. 351 So Long for Dreaming" Verda F. Welch S I ascended the steep stairs, A I was glad there were so many of us visiting the old home that the girls had assigned me my childhood bedroom which I had shared with them once. And as I turned on the light and looked around I was even more grateful that so few things in the room had changed during the years. It is good to go back in time now and then. The ceiling knelt gently to meet the east and west walls. 'There were windows in the north and _ south, opened wide in the summer to let in the twinkle of the stars, the songs of birds in the tall treetops, and the dances of the soft breezes. As I lay in bed in the quiet darkness, the years rolled away, and I was a carefree child again, secure and happy. Memories of Mama clung like sweet fragrance to almost everything in the room. On the floor was the linoleum I had watched her help Papa lay so painstakingly. 'There was nothing slipshod about Mama. She built to last. As she worked, she sang. I loved her folk songs as I loved her hymns. Sometimes she sang because she was happy, other times to camouflage her blues. When it was too late I remembered I had never told Mama I loved her singing. 'There were many things I forgot to tell her. In the corner was a little girl's washstand with drawers which Mama had made and carefully paint- 352 ed. 'There was a beautifully mirrored little dresser which she had created from an old organ. Mama could have made them more easily with better tools, but no more perfect. Against one wall was an old trunk, which had been hauled by wagon when Papa and Mama had come from Dixie to help colonize the Big Horn. But to me it was a treasure chest. No family crest or even pieces of eight, would have been cared for better than each carefully wrapped item Mama had placed within. She had many things on her mind, so she didn't always know exactly which bundle to unroll to find what she was looking for. I watched by her side, and hoped the needed item would be at the bottom so I would get to see as many things as possible. "I know it's here somewhere," she would say, and it always was. Important papers were kept there. I remember especially their marriage certificate, and the deed to our home. The latter had been threatened several times when the purchase of farms was considered, and mortgage was whispered. But Mama kept the deed. It represented security. 'There was a beautiful oakleaf breastpin hammered from a silver dollar by a silversmith uncle, which Mama wore on_ special occasions. There was little money for jewelry in those days, but she would compensate for that dearth in later years. 'There were boxes and albums of pictures. I never tired looking at the babies with their long white dresses; aunts and grandmas with wasp waists and bustles; and uncles and grandpas with austere faces and mustaches. Did their little girls like to kiss them goodnight each night? I wondered. There were a few compact bundles of choice editions of Young Woman's Journals, and Relief Society Magazines. Years later there would be gifts from sons on foreign shores added, never to be used. UT the main item I loved with a near obsession, was a doll. "Let me hold it. I won't drop it," I would always say, and Mama would give it to me. I even took it to a Christmas program once, and sang "Away in a Manger," with other little girls, holding more expensive dolls, but none more treasured. SO LONG FOR DREAMING Mama had made and stuffed the body, and sewed on stockings, carefully made the lace-trimmed petticoat and print dress. Its sweet porcelain face, I thought, reflected the face of its little mother, who had never missed the soft brown hair, which, of necessity, had been shorn from her fevered head. I had watched Mama weave the hair carefully into a switch and glue it on the doll's head. The doll represented the love and perfection of my little sister, whom I scarcely remember. I stirred as a noise floated through my dreams. It must be Papa calling from the foot of the stairs. The fragrant odor of home-cured bacon curls came wafting up from the kitchen. 'The noise persisted, and brought me back to reality. My visit was over, and so was the night, which had been so short for sleeping, and so long for remembering. 353 RUSILLA DUTTON tilted the white porcelain cup to allow the last few drops of precious milk to trickle into wee Bethy's mouth. "Now, Baby must eat her mush and molasses," she said firmly, setting the cup aside and reaching for the cracked blue bowl. But Bethy pushed it away, determinedly shaking her head. "Mik," she demanded. Mik."' Drusilla sighed in exasperation. Milk was all Bethy wanted, and Buttercup gave so little. Reluctantly, she poured out a little more from the small amount left in the pan, reflecting that Benny would have to do without this morning, as she and Jonathon had done. At least they had the consolation of knowing the cow would do better after they penned her up and started feeding her corn fodder. When she heard Dobbin and Nig stomping outside, she put Bethy "Mow 354 down on the hard-packed floor and went to the door. Jonathon was waiting, his hard, muscular body braced on the running gear, the sharp-bitted ax beside him. He stretched a hand for the packet of corn bread she handed him, reached to kiss her, and shook the reins to start the team moving. "... Back tonight. Let Benny go. The rest of his words were drowned in the medley of sound produced by the moving outfit. "What did you say?" she called after him, startled. "Let Benny go with Pablo and the sheep after he gets the milking done," he shouted back above the jingle of harness chains and plop of hoofs. Then the wagon moved out of the yard leaving Drusilla staring after it in open-mouthed indignation. Let Benny go with Pablo, indeed! Jonathon knew she objected to Benny's going off in the hills with that unwashed old hired man. Didn't he know she had enough worries just trying to keep Bethy satisfied with the insufficient amount of milk, trying to wash with the paltry amount of water allotted her, trying to. "I won't do it," she declared to no one in particular, unless perchance, Buttercup heard, placidly chewing her cud somewhere in the nearby shadows. "I won't do it," she said again. "Benny shan't go with that dirty, ignorant old sheepherder. If he comes near, I'll give him a send off he won't forget." When Jonat

hon had first learned of this valley and wanted to homestead here, Drusilla's first concern had been whether or not there were neighbors. Yes, Jonathon had assured her, there were other settlers nearby. When the "others" turned out to be an old sheepherder and his flock of odorous woolies, she had been appalled. What made it worse was that Jonathon had accepted Pablo matter-of-factly, and Benny and Bethy were as fascinated by him as he was by them. That his clothes were filthy, his whiskers matted and unkempt, and his person long unwashed seemed to matter to no one but her. She had tried to discourage his all too obvious attentions, refusing to accept his favors, and demanding that Jonathon pay him for the occasional piece of unsavory looking mutton he brought them. She could still hear the dressing down Jonathon gave her. "You can't buy love," he had told her sternly, "which is what Pablo is giving us. And love is all he wants in return. Can't you see we're folks to him?"