[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 376 | Poem | Last Bell | Margery S. Stewart]
(To be concluded) Last Bell Margery S. Stewart Laughter erupts from The schoolhouse in Bursts of boys, in winds Of children snatching Last leaves of afternoon. Feet make a joyous demolishment Of silence. Children run Under my hands, Separate tempests. We are discarded suddenly, Globe, pointer, blackboard, And I, the teacher, To gather dust until morning. 376 Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen— Sewing Sisters" Mk Lee Wilson Myers and Henrietta McCloy Larsen, of the Highland Ward in Alpine Stake, are friends who enjoy their home sewing and handwork together, and are devoted members of Relief Society. "Stitches taken together have a double meaning," they say, and their friendship has deepened over the years. Their favorite hobbies are crocheting and quiltmaking. They have designed original patterns for quilt blocks, as well as making many quilts in patchwork, wedding ring, star designs, and other patterns. Mrs. Myers was the first Primary president in Highland Ward, and has worked in Relief Society for many years, having been a visiting teacher "almost always." She is a practical nurse and an excellent seamstress. She has made many. Lovely wedding gowns. Mother of five children, she now has seventeen grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. Mrs. Larsen has worked in Relief Society since 1915, serving in many capacities of leadership. She gave to the Highland Ward the volumes of The Relief Society Magazine back to 1914. She loves genealogical work and has made pedigree charts for 200 ancestors, and has completed thirteen scrapbooks. She also assisted in compiling the ward genealogy book. Since coming to Highland Ward she has made more than 200 quilts. Three of her five children are living, and she has five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. 377 Magazine Honor Roll for 1962 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE greatest increase in subscriptions in the history of The Relief Society Magazine marks the Fiftieth Anniversary of its beginning. There was an increase in subscriptions of 18,334 in 1962 over 1961's total of 183,236. This should be a matter of satisfaction and gratitude to stake and mission, ward and branch presidents, and Magazine representatives. It reflects the opportunity which was afforded to 201,570 sisters in 1962 who subscribed to the Magazine to study the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine and partake of the instructions, warnings, and encouragement of the General Authorities and leaders in Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine is one means — and an important one — of drawing the sisterhood of the Church ever closer in understanding and purpose. The General Board extends its appreciation to every devoted, loyal Relief Society officer who has helped to achieve this outstanding record, and to readers of the Magazine everywhere who support this publication of Relief Society. 'The General Board is grateful for the letters of appreciation which are constantly received from subscribers. It is also thankful to gifted Latter-day Saint women writers who submit their excellent articles, fiction, non-fiction, and poetry to the Magazine. Missions throughout the world express appreciation for the gift subscriptions to the Magazine which come from individuals, stakes, wards, and branches, and are divided equitably among the missions for the use of missionaries, and investigators, and a few sisters in non-English-speaking missions who can read some English. There were 325 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1962, an increase of twenty-two over 1961, and there were 2,593 wards and branches in stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of 249 over 1961 For sixteen consecutive years the South Los Angeles Stake has had the highest percentage of subscriptions. In 1962 they had 232 per cent. They also had the highest number of subscriptions — 1751. The next three highest rating stakes, all in Southern California, were also in high positions last year — Huntington Park, Glendale, and Inglewood. Of the top ten stakes, eight were also in the top ten a year ago. There were this year five from California, two from Nevada, two from Arizona, and one from Idaho. In 1962 there were twenty-two missions on the Honor Roll, the North Central States Mission leading, with 117 per cent; second is Western States Mission, and third the California Mission. Of the top ten, seven are in the United States, and the other three are the Southwest British, Irish, 378 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 and Alaskan-Canadian Missions. The mission with the highest number of subscriptions was the East Central States Mission, with 975. The next nine with the highest number of subscriptions were also in the United States. The addition of color within the pages of the Magazine in 1962, and eight added pages have done much to make the Magazine more appealing and provide new features. 'This has been accomplished without increasing the price of the Magazine, which remains at $2. The appointment of a Magazine representative is a calling ranking in importance with the other offices in Relief Society. Representatives are faithful, devoted sisters, with a knowledge of the contents of the Magazine, and an appreciation for the worth of its contents. The Magazine representative in one ward who achieved the highest percentage in her stake is a housebound sister. Age is not a determining factor — some representatives have served for many years, with continued, outstanding success. The General Board acknowledges the great service performed by Magazine representatives throughout the Church, and commends Relief Society presidents for their foresight in choosing such outstanding women for this important calling in Relief Society. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 232% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 331% Magazine Representative — Imogene Slater Mission North Central States Mission — 117% Mission Magazine Representative — Mary B.