VOLUME/50° NUMBERS MAY 1963 > a "te, £ o 4 3 &.. 3 ey rie, ON nf? B if Kemembrance Grace Barker Wilson The warm flat rock above the stream Was just the place to lie and dream, And watch the flashing rainbow trout In the deep pool weave in and out. The banks bore moss grown violets, And, further back, wild mignonettes Mixed perfume with the scented air Of new green willows growing there. How friendly all that tangled wild — And I was, once, that dreaming child. The Cover: Lake Marraine, Banff National Park, Canada Color Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: 9} Shadow and Sunlight, Near Bountiful, Utah Photograph by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: 9) Dick Scopes tom I don't think anyone could take The Relief Society Magazine out of the mailbox without at least thumbing through it. I always read the From Near and Far page, if I read nothing else immediately. This page makes me feel close to all the sisters in the Church. The first serial I read was "Because of the Word" (by Hazel M. Thomson). I am_ sure this — story strengthened my testimony. The series of articles about the women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith (by Preston Nibley) was wonderful, too. I have been a member of the Church for two years and have had many blessings since being baptized. I enjoyed the recent serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. The visiting teacher messages are full of wisdom. All the sisters I visited said they enjoyed the message about using their time wisely. —Mtrs. Jacqueline Rasmussen Clinton, Iowa I surely do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I carry one or two of them in my big handbag each time I go out in the car with my husband. While in Seattle last week, I read all of the installments. Of the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (January to June 1962). I studied her style, and it delighted me very much. She has a real polish, which makes me think she has written a great deal. —Mrs. Alice Sabin Yakima, Washington We receive with great pleasure each month that periodical The Relief Society Magazine. We feel enthusiastic about this Magazine, with all the interesting and stimulating articles and the beautiful pictures, but, in particular, we rejoice in reading the inspiring and poetic novel "Out of the Wilderness' (by Shirley Thulin, concluded in February 1963). —Anna Marie Vedder Hamburg, Germany 322 Cet com as I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and I especially enjoy the poetry. It gave me much pleasure to see that Christie Lund Coles won the second prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest ("The Home," February 1963). I especially enjoy the poetry by Mrs. Coles and have often quoted her poetry in giving lessons in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in PTA and other places where I have been asked to give talks. —Betty Green San Bernardino, California I was very much impressed with the story "Ihe Home" (by Christie Lund Coles) in the February issue of the Magazine. All of the stories are good, and the Magazine is wonderful, from start to finish. The articles never get old. They can be read time after time, and there is always something new to cherish. I thank all the people who put their time and work and patience into the making of the Magazine. —Mrs. Violet Pierce Gunnison, Utah In the March 1963 issue of the Magazine I enjoyed so much the article "We Can't Be Perfect" by Christie Lund Coles. As In-Service leader of our ward Primary, I am planning for each teacher to have a copy of this article. —Mrs. John J. Merrill Logan, Utah I would like to thank you for the very lovely Magazine we are so privileged to receive in Our homes every month. I enjoy every page, and have particularly looked forward to the serial story "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and the work meeting lessons on "The Latter-day Saint Home," which are so helpful (by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler). —Ruth Pepper Corrimal East N. S. W., Australia

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office:

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from V50_05_29_Poem_Life_Bowles.txt) ===
MAGNIFYING GLASS ADJUSTABLE Magna SPECIAL GIFT FOR A LOVED ONE Helps You See Better Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious jobs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a lady's purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses Reading. Needlepoint. Sewing. Removing slivers. Crocheting. Threading needle. Price $4.95 postpaid DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Cabs Loo on) Spd SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES — ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 i. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 i GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin.25 oo HEAVENS ARE TELLING —Haydn 20. 25 ae. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen -.-..25 —_ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster.25 LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert _.20 OPEN OUR EYES Macfarlane ___ -..00--.0-20.-0.-.25 STILL, STILL WITH THEE—Madsen 23d PSALM—Schubert 25 UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah i { \ Please send the music indicated above. I I CL) On Approval ([] Charge [1 Money Enclosed Name I Daynes Masic I TNAIASTAAIN Ate 15 E.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from V50_05_30_GenFt_Notes_Parker.txt) ===
35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 45 e 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 64 1400 to 1800 miles 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Portland Rose Festival and Parade Leaves June 12 Northwest, Canadian Rockies, Lake Louise & Banff Tour, etc. Leaves June 22 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Leaves July 24 Black Hills Passion Play Tour Leaves August 17 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 398 Zippy, the Zions Savings Bug, Says for your money' at ZS&L!" e Savings deposited by the 20th of any month and left on deposit 'til June 30, 1963, earn from the Ist of that month. Big 444% per year current rate earnings are compounded twice a year so that the earnings earn earnings. Your savings are insured to $10,000 by the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp., a permanent agency of the U. S. Government. Never in its 79-year history has Zions Savings & Loan failed (even in depression times) to pay a dividend to each of its savings customers. You have a choice of savings plans a Savings Certificate Plan, a Regular Savings Plan, even a unique Savingsplus-Insurance program all paying 44%% yearly dividends. Of per yea Y =i Utah's First Savings & Loan Ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association @eeeeaeeoeoeeeee 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays 'til noon @eaeeeeeeeoeoeeee After First Grief Maude Rubin How sudden is the hour of ice, Of frosted fern. Can the heart renew hope's sweet device, Can the mind re-learn? We walked together through a land Of butterflies... Shimmer of June. Now, wintered and cold, mv heart is bound In a tight cocoon. Oh, out of this chrysalis of night Let bright wings lift To ride another summert's light, Time's golden gift! The Moon Is Full Evalyn Sandberg How sweetly sleeps the world tonight All wrapped in luminosity And patterned shade. How sweetly from the thickets Soprano-chirping crickets Are raising repetitious serenade. In soft, legato cadences A song of surcease lifts And fills the ear. And peace, made nearly visible — A presence almost palpable — Reposes here. Hawaiian Tours June and November, 1963 Mexican Tour Leaving June 1 Orient Tour Leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 GOLD MEDALLION HOME A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. OO ealer x 399 ( ° ° Mrs. Hattie AMELIA RusHLow FostTER Belleville, Ontario Canada Mrs. RosentA MarsHALL ELLIS Bountiful, Utah ] ~ Mrs. LotsaBARTON WHITTAKER Circleville, Utah Mrs. Bopett C. HANSEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Saran Martie Rew ALEXANDER Osawatomie, Kansas ® ratwetOonr Mrs. Nancy HAMMER MATHEWS Shelley, Idaho '~rTe — netv-three 4 I - Mrs. -CAROLINE FREDRICKSEN JORGENSEN Mt. Pleasant,. Utah Mrs. Matrie F. Pettis ALLEN El Monte, California Mrs. Ipa J. McELDOWNEY Norwalk, California Mrs. Saran Hoce GILeEs Morgan, Utah Mrs. Resecca ALLPHIN ORTON Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Potty WALKER Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. Mary E. GreENWELL FARLEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ciara CUMMINGS SHIELDS Fillmore, Utah Mrs. HENRIETTA WATKINS BARBEN Delta, Utah Miss AppiE WALSH Belleville, Ontario Canada Mrs. EMMA BuTLerR MAXFIELD Bakersfield, California Mrs. SarAH RAMSDEN BENJAMIN San Francisco, California Mrs. OLEAN SmitTH RICE Farmington, Utah Ninety Mrs. ANNIE WILSON MaArTIN Magnolia, Florida Build Strong Ursula King Bell Build your foundation upon the rock of truth, And endeavor to steer a straight course, Regardless of the waves of discontent and discouragement, Which day by day batter away at your rock. Take heart! Remember! There is always the lighthouse Of strength to guide you through the storms of life. 400 new! From Deseret Book A rich, new book Studded with quotations from Many of the General Authorities of the Church — both past and present. The;:. Compiler of this Work js Chairman of the BYU Educational] Week" Program for 1963. Here is absorbing reading for al]! MILY $295 rEADERSHl:: Deseret Book Company, l 44 East South Temple, Salt lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find check Imoney order I. I have an account, please Charge. Amount en- I closed $ 00for encircled book numbers: 1 2 I ee ee I ——— [ es Zone. State. I Residents of Utah Include 3% Sales Tax I Your responsibilities grow along with your family. Each family addition brings new joys — and new needs. Among these is space. Perhaps you've remodeled your present home to add more rooms. Or you may have purchased recently, or considered purchasing, a larger home. However you plan to provide the space for living that your family needs don't overlook another important How about your Beneficial; Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah Mortgage Insurance; responsibility: that of making sure they'll always have the home you want for them - and not just the memory of it. Beneficial Life Mortgage Insurance can make all the difference. And it costs so little when compared with the peace of mind that comes with it. Ask your Beneficial Life man for details. —— ICIAL LLFE Srscanee ae) nd Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Mie) Lake City, Utah


=== API TRANSCRIPTION (clean) — ad/cover pages ===
Source: vol50_May_p321.txt

--- PAGE 320 (PDF page 338) ---
From Near and Far

I don't think anyone could take The Relief Society Magazine out of the mailbox without at least thumbing through it. I always read the From Near and Far page, if I read nothing else immediately. This page makes me feel close to all the sisters in the Church. The first serial I read was "Because of the Word" (by Hazel M. Thomson). I am sure this story strengthened my testimony. The series of articles about the women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith (by Preston Nibley) was wonderful, too. I have been a member of the Church for two years and have had many blessings since being baptized. I enjoyed the recent serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. The visiting teachers' messages are full of wisdom. All the sisters I visited said they enjoyed the message about using their time wisely.
—Mrs. Jacqueline Rasmussen
Clinton, Iowa

I surely do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I carry one or two of them in my big handbag each time I go out in the car with my husband. While in Seattle last week, I read all of the installments of the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (January to June 1962). I studied her style, and it delighted me very much. She has a real polish, which makes me think she has written a great deal.
—Mrs. Alice Sabin
Yakima, Washington

We receive with great pleasure each month that periodical The Relief Society Magazine. We feel enthusiastic about this Magazine, with all the interesting and stimulating articles and the beautiful pictures, but, in particular, we rejoice in reading the inspiring and poetic novel "Out of the Wilderness" (by Shirley Thulin, concluded in February 1963).
—Anna Marie Vedder
Hamburg, Germany

I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and I especially enjoy the poetry. It gave me much pleasure to see that Christie Lund Coles won the second prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest ("The Home," February 1963). I especially enjoy the poetry by Mrs. Coles and have often quoted her poetry in giving lessons in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in PTA and other places where I have been asked to give talks.
—Betty Green
San Bernardino, California

I was very much impressed with the story "The Home" (by Christie Lund Coles) in the February issue of the Magazine. All of the stories are good, and the Magazine is wonderful, from start to finish. The articles never get old. They can be read time after time, and there is always something new to cherish. I thank all the people who put their time and work and patience into the making of the Magazine.
—Mrs. Violet Pierce
Gunnison, Utah

In the March 1963 issue of the Magazine I enjoyed so much the article "We Can't Be Perfect" by Christie Lund Coles. As the Service leader of our ward Primary, I am planning for each teacher to have a copy of this article.
—Mrs. John J. Merrill
Logan, Utah

I would like to thank you for the very lovely Magazine we are so privileged to receive in our homes every month. I enjoy every page, and have particularly looked forward to the serial story "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and the work meeting lessons on "The Latter-day Saint Home," which are so helpful (by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler).
—Ruth Pepper
Corrimal East
N. S. W., Australia

322

--- PAGE 321 (PDF page 339) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

VOL. 50                                    MAY 1963                                    NO. 5

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE    Marianne C. Sharp  Editor
Vesta P. Crawford  Associate Editor        Belle S. Spafford  General Manager

SPECIAL FEATURES
324  My Mother — A Homemaker and Character Builder  Elna P. Haymond
332  Contest Announcements 1963
336  Portrait of Life  Helen Hinckley Jones
348  Night Sky  Ora Pate Stewart
378  Magazine Honor Roll for 1962  Marianne C. Sharp

FICTION
339  Battalion  Hazel K. Todd
354  The Inside of the Cup  Nellie I. Cox
372  Keep My Own — Chapter 5  Kit Linford

GENERAL FEATURES
322  From Near and Far
346  Editorial: Eternal Earnings in Twenty-four Hours  Marianne C. Sharp
349  Woman's Sphere  Ramona W. Cannon
390  Notes From the Field  Hulda Parker
400  Birthday Congratulations

FEATURES FOR THE HOME
350  Early Years Are a Mother's Glory  Leona Fetzer Wintch
351  Too Busy?  Annella Barnes
352  So Long for Dreaming  Verda F. Welch
360  As the Heart Grows  Leola Seely Anderson
364  Love in a Lunch Sack  Janet W. Breeze
366  Magic in Your Vinegar Bottle  Margaret F. Maxwell
367  Ham-Noodle Scallop Casserole  Anna Marie Astle
367  Sugar Cookies  Myrtle E. Henderson
368  Pancakes With an International Accent  Margaret F. Maxwell
370  Shirt Tales  Shirley Thulin
377  Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen — "Sewing Sisters"

POETRY
321  Remembrance — Frontispiece  Grace Barker Wilson
Echo, by Rosa Lee Lloyd, 334; Tree Love, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 335; Season of the Heart, by Lael W. Hill, 338; Absentee Grandchild, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 345; Suggestion, by Ida Elaine James, 353; After Long Trial, by Christie Lund Coles, 359; Washing Windows, by Zara Sabin, 363; You Cannot Win, by Gladys Haeser Burnham, 365; Last Bell, by Margery S. Stewart, 376; Life, by Catherine B. Bowles, 397; After First Grief, by Maude Rubin, 399; The Moon Is Full, by Evalyn Sandberg, 399; Build Strong, by Ursula King Bell, 400.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association

Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2563. Subscription Price $3.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

323

--- PAGE 322 (PDF page 340) ---
My Mother

A Homemaker
and Character
Builder

Elna P. Haymond
Member, General Board of Relief Society

"Build the whole child or you have not built well" - Mother

[PHOTOGRAPH]

LUCY Doney Parkinson, the wife of George C. Parkinson, was born in Franklin, Idaho, in 1860. She was the daughter of pioneer parents, John and Ann Temperance Doney. The family then was living in the old fort which was occupied by the colony as a protection against the Indians. Brother and Sister Parkinson were the parents of eight children. Sister Parkinson passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1937.

Many confuse the terms housekeeper and homemaker. These words are often used interchangeably, but they do not carry the same fine meaning. The housekeeper cares for the upkeep of the house, while the broader term — homemaker — includes this and much more. To be a homemaker one must care for the house and all that dwell therein. True homemaking is the art of developing the whole person or persons of a family. It signifies the developing of character, morals, and spirituality. I think of my mother as a homemaker. As I reminisce on incidents of my early home life in Preston, Idaho, I realize that many tasks of housekeeping have changed with the changing times, but the principles of homemaking have not.

In considering Mother as a homemaker, it is impossible for me to think of her apart from Father. They had an unusual closeness and harmony upon both purpose and training, and acted as one in making decisions. In my home, the whole child was trained by wise and loving parents, who valued the industrious, spiritual life above the social life. The children were taught the finer qualities: love, honesty, faith, fairness, work, and charity.

Mother was a woman of rare charm. She was a lady of culture and refinement, a devoted wife and mother. Her many friends spoke of her in different terms. Some called her genteel; some spoke of her as the Lady Elect; as Sister Lucy; while

324

--- PAGE 323 (PDF page 341) ---
MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER

those close to her, old and young, called her Aunt Lucy. She seemed to possess qualities to suit all these names. The one special name for her which I liked best was Father's name for her — Queen — and he truly treated her as such. Each time Father came home from a day's absence, he would say: "Where is my Queen?" I think this one lovely expression caused the children to take notice and give added respect to her. Her warm, cheerful countenance, when hearing this name, brought cheer and a feeling of wellbeing into the home.

To Mother, time was a precious commodity, one not to be wasted. The best time to teach and guide was while one worked at even small tasks. It was not necessary to resort to lecturing in order to teach. Teaching of economy applied to time, as well as to money, belongings, and effort. Our time was well planned for work, education, pleasure, for thinking, and even for daydreaming and planning. What great plan or project was ever accomplished without much thinking? We also learned that a child did not build up so much resentment to work, if he knew he could count on undisturbed minutes or hours that became his own precious time.

In teaching economy in the use of money, Mother often quoted President Brigham Young: "A woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel." This lesson was taught as we cared for our clothing, as we cared for furniture, and kept the home in good condition. Even though we lived in the country and raised our own vegetables, we were never allowed to cook too much or waste the food.

MOTHER soon learned, as the eight children came along, many of the secrets of a cheerful, cooperative family. The children were expected to assume their share of the responsibilities of the home tasks. It was expected that jobs would be done well, done to meet Mother's approval. As soon as a child learned one task well, he was given full credit, and was then assigned to some new task for training. This prevented a child from building up resentment for a task he did not like to do. Tension was lessened, so that willingness to assist and learn followed. I remember the task of cleaning the chimneys of our coaloil burning lamps. Each morning they were lined up on the drain like well-ordered soldiers. Some child was assigned to clean them. Here, again, perfect work was required. This scheduled, planned work served as a tie to responsibility — responsibility which is so fundamental in the training of a child. Regular work, finished work, good work made for calm living, as opposed to confusion and scolding. "Any child," Mother said, "feels more secure and much happier when he knows what is expected of him and that he must meet certain standards." Fifty years after, it remains a positive teaching tool to me.

In our home the boys were expected to take their turns in helping with the housework. They had their regular jobs, as did the girls. Through these tasks they learned to respect their mother, their sisters,

325
