[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 370 | General Feature | Pancakes With an International Accent Margaret | F. Maxwell]
There are actually only a few basic recipes for pancakes. A few easy variations in a simple basic recipe are all that is needed to give your pancakes an international accent. Basic Pancake Recipe 1% c. Flour "2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 egg, beaten 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Milk 2 tbsp. Melted fat or salad oil _ _ Sift dry ingredients together. Combine beaten egg, milk, and salad oil. Pour liquid all at once into dry ingredients. Beat only until dry ingredients are moistened. Bake on a hot griddle, and serve with hot maple syrup and butter. Variations Alpine pancakes: Add 3 heaping tsp. Sweetened powdered cocoa mix. Serve piping hot with a scoop of vanilla iee cream on top. Hawaiian pancakes: Add % c. Drained crushed pineapple to batter. Serve with coconut and sliced pineapple. 368 Delicate, thin, crisp, and light, Swedish and French pancakes are made of the same basic ingredients as other pancakes, but in different proportions. French Crepe Suzettes 1 c. Sifted pastry flour 3 eggs" 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 c. Milk Y% tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Salad oil Sift dry ingredients. Gradually add unbeaten eggs, milk, and salad oil, beating until batter is perfectly smooth. Strain. Pour batter, a tablespoon at a time, on " griddle, tilting griddle as batter is poured so as to make a very thin cake. A perfectly round crepe may be made if a small 5" frying pan is used. Fill with strawberry preserves; roll. Serve with melted butter and powdered sugar. Svenska Plottar (Swedish Dessert Pancakes) % c. Sifted flour 3 eggs" 1 tbsp. Sugar 1% c. Milk % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Salad oil Sift dry ingredients. Combine beaten eggs, milk, and salad oil. Add Be ay ingredients, stirring until smooth. Pour batter a tablespoon at a time on wat gri ee or special Swedish griddle, tilting griddle to make a very thin cake. Serve with melte butter sprinkled with sugar, and hot lingonberry or blueberry sauce. 369
