[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 339 | Fiction | Keep My Own — Chapter 5 | ]
Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 5 (ns —_ Tee a - OVNOPsIs: Irene Spe er, who met her husbat to make a dh ut ¢ he lar Id I that had belon » tha ration: the familv. The he con Ciex's Cxendiarh nt Fla ie aeane han? A wer 7 Irene learns to I] old house and to ok «OF it ap I She; her responsibiliti nd f ing progress in helping David t come h I RENE'S head throbbed after hours spent bending over the sewing machine. She straightened, pushing in at the ache in the small of her back with the palms of her hands. She surveyed with satisfaction the neat stack of white squares she had just finished hemming. EJla had come across a real bargain in outing flannel, and had purchased dozens of yards of it. Irene had spent the better part of two days cutting and hemming the soft white lengths. She had had to cancel her order at the local store for a supply of a different type of gauze diapers, but she knew that Ella was right when she said that these, hemmed at home from the flannel, would be serviceable and cost much less. Anyway, Irene thought, there's a feeling of accomplishment in sewing baby things yourself. A sudden spasm made her stiffen sharply. It was gone so quickly 372 that she chided herself inwardly and relaxed again. 'The baby wasn't due for two weeks. Already she was so impatient that every untoward twinge set her on edge. Rising from the machine, she still pushed against her back with her hands. She thought of the inviting expanse of her bed. As she turned to go lie down, she saw Davy standing in the doorway. She had no idea how long he had been there. For some unaccountable reason, the child had steadfastly avoided her since their moment of communion in the nursery. She smiled a welcome. "Come in, Davy." He was carrying his book about babies. She recalled her promise to read it to him and wondered if that was what he wanted. She hesitated to approach him lest she frighten him away again. She looked into his presently expressive eyes. They searched her face for understanding. Her heart wrenched. She read the question there as plainly as if he had spoken. "Do you?" A moment before she had been too tired to think of anything but rest. Now she was intrigued by the glimmering hope that she might somehow span the chasm that separated her from Davy. He nodded almost eagerly. You want me to read to Irene reached toward him, but recognized the movement as a mistake at once. He backed away a step. "May I take the book, then?" she asked quickly. "Where shall we sit to read? It's nice and light here in the window seat." He gave her the book and watched as she sat down at the far end of the window seat. "Would you like to sit beside me?"