[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 372 | Fiction | The Inside of the Cup Nellie | I. Cox]
THE INSIDE OF THE CUP "But he's so dirty," she had wailed, "and look what he's doing to Benny. I even have a hard time getting him to bathe or change his clothes any more, since he wants to opy Pablo in everything." "Well," Jonathon had suggested mildly, "the best solution might be for you to make Pablo a new shirt and lend him the bathtub." RUSILLA had glanced at him in quick suspicion. "You needn't make fun," she said finally. "I am concerned about my son's welfare, even if you aren't. I don't like the influence Pablo has on him." "Honey," Jonathon had replied emis "Tm not joking. I am concerned about Benny's welfare, too, and I think Pablo is good for him. He's friendly and honest, and I respect him. I happen to know he has had a mighty lonely existence the past few years. Why won't you try to help him, Drue?" But she had fought the idea then as she was fighting it now. Drusilla knew she should be beginning the day's tasks. 'There was the washing to do, the shirts she was making for Jonathon and Benny to finish, a little apron to iron for Bethy, and above all, the empty jars to be prepared for the jam she intended to make. But she continued to linger in the narrow doorway, grateful for the cloaking shadows which softened the ugliness of alkali flats and rocky outcroppings — of hills with their scant pasturage — of the lonely, desolate homestead. In the late September dawn, corn Shocks showed, tepee-like, in the fenced enclosure, dim evidence of the year's harvest, and she was grate- 


 ful for the security it represented. It was meager, but supplemented by milk from the cow and the luscious elzerita berrics Jonathon had promised to bring her for the winter's swectening, it should suffice. From across the nearby arrovo, Old Pablo's sheepcote emitted a multivocal of sheep impatient to begin the davy's grazing, and, simultancously, the acrid smell of pulverized sheep droppings stung the nostrils. Grimacing distastefully, Drusilla stepped over the raised door sill and entered the hut, shutting the heavv slab door behind her. In the flickering light of the coaloil lamp the transformation she had wrought in this crude little jacal brought the customary wave of satisfaction. Deserted, prior to their coming a year ago, by its former inhabitant, it had been a very unappealing dwelling. She and Jonathon had whitewashed the walls inside and out, sanded the floor, hung shelves for dishes, driven wooden pegs for hanging clothes, and sunk posts into the floor to support the woven rawhide thongs on which now rested two corn-shuck mattresses. On one of these, ten-yearold Benny still lay in well-scrubbed oblivion, RUSILLA gathered up the soiled clothes and laid out fresh ones for Benny. She was a tall woman, neat and well-groomed even at this early hour, with a mania for cleanliness. Her high button shoes were fastened to the very top, her demure calico gown securely buttoned, and her long hair carefully restrained at the nape of her neck. The uncompromising sternness of 356 her thin features was relieved only by the mouth, which carried a generous sensitivity. Drusilla had not known Benny was awake, but there he was, sitting up in bed, his brown eyes beneath the sun-bleached blond thatch fixed intently on hers. She turned away to avoid seeing the disappointment she knew she was going to inflict. "Good morning, son," she said over her shoulder, "did you sleep well?" "Yes, Mama. Say, Mama, may I?" "Good," she interrupted quickly. "Now hurry and dress, because I want you to drag some sticks for the wash fire before you milk Buttercup. And the barrel is low, so V'll need you to go carry some water from the arroyo." "But Mama." There was agonizing heartbreak in his cry. "Pa said I could help Pablo drive the sheep to another water hole over on the slope. I've never gone with him, and Pa said I could. Pablo needs me, Mama. Let me milk now." Drusilla almost weakened. Benny had so few pleasures in this harsh, new land. Maybe it wouldn't hurt to let him go just this once. Then a vivid image of Benny growing up to be like Pablo, if she allowed the friendship to continue, and, worse still, the thought of the old man in the rank, disreputable garments he wore, coming in contact with tiny Bethy in the dainty little dresses she labored so hard to keep clean, built up her resolve anew. No. She couldn't give in now. Today, while Jonathon was not here to act as buffer between what he called her un- feelingness and the old man's friendly overtures, was the time to put Pablo in his place. I Drusilla swung around to face the boy, who stood with feet planted wide apart and stubbornly protruding lip. "Your — Pa — is — not — here," she mouthed with what she hoped was unmistakable finality, "and whether you think Pablo needs you or not is immaterial. We don't owe that old sheepherder anything." UT Benny refused to be silenced. "Pa says the outside dirt doesn't matter so much, if the inside is clean," he informed her doggedly. "And we do, too, owe Pablo something!" Realizing he had found the chink in her armor, his voice began to climb. "He made Dobbin well the time he ate those poison weeds. And I'll bet if Buttercup ate some of them he could...." "Benny, won't it be nice if your Pa brings a big sack of elzerita berries?" Drusilla tried frantically to turn his mind to a less disturbing subject. But a thrill of fear went through her; that was why Jonathon had gone to the mountains. 'They needed posts to build Buttercup a pen before the dwindling forage tempted her to eat the deadly plant. "No!" Benny scornfully refused to be sidetracked. "You never let me give any of it to Pablo, and he likes sweet stuff. You're mean, that's what you are!' And, jerking open the door, he can angrily up the hillside in search of wash wood. Somewhat shaken, Drusilla almost wished she had not made an issue of Benny's desire to go with Pablo. She hated discord, and, ordinarily managed to keep her household running THE INSIDE OF THE CUP smoothly. But honesty compelled her to admit it was because Jonathon generally let her have her way, and Benny was mostly quite tractable. She sewed several buttons on the blue chambray shirts, and then ironed Bethy's ruffled apron, later brushing the baby's silky hair into golden ringlets. A sudden thank fulness came over her; she was so grateful for this beautiful little daughter! No wonder old Pablo couldn't keep his hands off her. A shamed sympathy for the lonely life he led in the decrepit little shack beyond the arroyo swept over her. She really should be kinder, because, as Jonathon said, he did seem anxious to learn their ways, and she could help him. Of course she would never agree to make him a member of the family, as Jonathon and the children would like, or even to let Benny follow him into the hills, but she would be kind. If he came to get Benny, she would.... '"Bennee!"" Old Pablo's hoarse croak sounded outside the jacal, "You help Pablo with sheeps?" Drusilla threw open the door. "Good morning, Pablo, Benny isn't here. He has gone to get." UT old Pablo wasn't listening. He had spied little Bethy peeping from behind Drusilla's skirts and was holding out his arms. Like a flash, the tot slipped through the doorway and held up her own to be taken, crying, "Pab'o, Pab'o," in delighted welcome. A _ radiant joy suffused the grimy, wrinkled old face. He swung her up to press the grizzled whiskers against the delicate little face, fondling her plump 


 chubbiness, caressing the golden curls, and murmuring endearments. The little apron became dirtsmirched, the tiny arms and face acquired greasy finger marks. Horrified, Drusilla swooped to snatch her darling away from such sacrilege. 'The kindliness she had intended was forgotten in the wild fury that swept over her. "Take your hands off my baby. Go away. Don't come around here any more ever. Oh." Old Pablo stared at her, stunned, for a long moment, then comprehension dawned in the dim old eyes. "IT make Bethee dirty, Pablo very sorry, he said with quiet dignity, turning away. "Bethee is like Pablo's baby who died in this house long time ago. Pablo go now — not come back." 'Tears furrowing the brown, grizzled cheeks, he staggered away. She had won. Breathing rapidly, Drusilla leaned against the doorway of the little house which had been Pablo's, which, she knew now, he had vacated in order-that she might have a place in which to live. Jonathon knew; he had made a trip here. Why, oh, why hadn't he told her? Why had he let her continue in her cruel selfishness? Unmindful of the crying Bethy, she started after him. She would bring him back, tell him what a fool she had been, make up to him for the loss of the litttle daughter he had loved long ago, help him. On she ran, disregarding the brush that snagged at her clothing and scratched her skin. BENNY came stumbling down the hillside, yelling and waving 358 his arms. He reached old Pablo, said something to him, then raced toward her. "Buttercup — poisoned. Pablo wants kettle — water. Hurry," he gasped. They worked feverishly, Drusilla down on her knees in the dust beside the silent old man, forcing the antidote he had brewed from leaves of some nameless plant down the cow's throat, praying as she had never prayed before. But she knew, from old Pablo's discouraged shrug, that it was too late. "Find another cow quick," he said, finally, giving them all a compassionate look before shuffling off to round up his long-neglected sheep. Guilt lying heavy in her breast, Drusilla walked back to the jacal, conscious of Benny's condemning look. Had she allowed him to go after the cow earlier, as he had wished, Bethy might not now be faced with possible starvation. There were no other milk cows in the area. How insignificant seemed all her fears concerning Pablo's undesirable influence on her children now that Bethy might not live to grow up, and Benny hated her! Since there was no Buttercup for Benny to milk next day, he wandered aimlessly about, glancing occasionally at the pan of jam left over after Drusilla had filled the Mason jars from the luscious fruit Jonathon had brought from the mountains. Wordlessly, she filled Bethy's white cup — unneeded now — and gave it to Benny. Like a flash he was out the door and on his way to Pablo — Pablo who loved sweets, who loved her who had abused him. Drusilla reached for her bonnet. "I'll be back soon," she told the stern-faced Jonathon, who was coaxing fussy little Bethy to eat some mush with jam on it. At the arroyo, Drusilla saw with amazement that only the water hole Jonathon and Pablo had fenced to keep the animals from befouling it still held water. This, then, was why Pablo, who had as much right to the water as they did, more, really, since he had been here first, had taken his sheep elsewhere to water. Would her obligations to him never cease? Pablo, 'his face one great, happv. Purple smear, was coming from the sheepcote beyond his incredibly tiny jacal, carefully bearing something white in his black wrinkled hands — THE INSIDE OF THE CUP Bethy's cup. Benny was beside him, jabbering excitedly. Seeing her, he sprang forward. "It's milk, Mama, milk from Pablo's ewe that had her lamb killed by coyotes yesterday when he was gone so long!" 'Then, remembering, he added quickly, "The cup's clean, Mama, really clean inside, and Pablo says there'll be milk for Bethy as long as she needs it." Drusilla's moist eyes met those of the gentle, loving, forgiving old man for a long moment, during which no words were spoken and none were needed. Yes, the inside was clean, really clean! And gratefully accepting the precious cup of milk from the gnarled, dirty old hands, she hurried home to_ her hungry baby. \ £ 5 T,..! Aiter Long Irial Christie Lund Coles This is entering a wide, green valley, After the slashing wind of a desert place, Finding the waters cool, the meadows wide, The breeze gentle on the lifted face. This is like finding home, unchanged and sure, After feverish, lonely wandering, Finding no small thing has altered here, Though we have changed, known thirst and hungering. This is reaching rest and warmth and shelter, After winter's frost, ice-slivered snow; This is survival, discovering those we love After they were lost. Though none can know The path uncharted, lonely we have gone, Till each goes unaccompanied (through the scathe That comes to all men, soon or late) Save by his courage and his secret faith. 359 As the Heart Grows "99 @@ Leola Seely Anderson love you!" No sweeter words were ever spoken, no purer thought was ever born. No greater joy was ever measured than the simple, exquisite infinity of "T love you!" Within the walls of my heart are many mansions. Each is precious, lovely, rare. Each holds an image indestructible; each is eternal there. Once my heart was one vaulted chamber, dedicated only to a lonely portrait — myself. But it was soon invaded by another. My Mother's bright blue eyes, her sunny hair, the light of her smile — these became my world. And I divided my heart once more to let my Father in — and later there were those other dear ones, my brothers and sister. Life was full, my love serene. A gallery of cherished ones filled my every need, until the day a friend slipped in, and his image was engraved in its own hall of fame. My heart was no larger, but oh, the difference in my vision! J loved outside my family. Others were admitted tentatively from time to time. Some came to stay; some grew dim, faded away, and were replaced by faces new and fresh. Before any could be permanently fixed, a new room had to be prepared. Once I thought my work completed — family and friends were there. And yet there came another for whom my heart pulsed with new meaning. This was an image to be superimposed upon my own; this one took my place. For my husband I ceased to think of self. I awoke to other vistas. Love seeks not itself; neither does it demand anything. It asks only the privilege to serve, to give, to suffer, if need be, but always to be near the sweet flame which kindled its fire. This portrait I cherished in my heart's loveliest hall, with gratitude and faith in its being eternally mine. And as the years passed by, my mansions increased in number. Each of 360 ~ my children possesses one, each immortal. Though he should break my heart and make my tears a flood, he could not erase my love. Though he walk in the farthest reaches of heaven or earth, he could not depart my heart's door. He is loved. Again I thought myself filled — family, friends, my mate, my children — surely one could ask no more? But Jesus stood at my door and knocked, and for him its portals swung wide. He entered, and his presence filled every corner with wider vision. Miraculously, my capacity to love increased a hundredfold! Not alone my own, those near and dear to me, but a whole troop of others crowded in. The tired, the needy, the afflicted, the discouraged — I found my compassion had g