FAT AND FIFTY. 265 Fat people are usually troubled with short breath. They have weak livers — and these belong always in the constipated class — such would do well to stop eating flour bread and use corn or rice in their -various forms in place of wheat bread. The body requires just so much blood and muscle-building material, and it can be obtained from any of the grains mixed plentifully with vegetables and fruits and meat once a day, if these are rightly proportioned to the human system. "The world's greatest food scientist was an Italian, born in the fifteenth century. He lived far into the sixteenth century. He was one hundred and three years of age when he died. 'Tn his fortieth year he had been given up to die by his physicians. The verdict of his physicians came to him as a shock. He awakened to the dangers before him and began to study life's deepest and most mysterious problem — that of living scientifically. "Luigi Cornaro was the name of this man, a native of Italy. He controlled his fate. He lengthened his life by more than sixty years. "If a modern scientist were to discover a definite, dependable means of more than doubling the length of human life, he would be acclaimed as a great genius. "And yet Cornaro, this renowned Italian, made that praticular discovery more than five hundred years ago. He learned that the flesh and blood machine that we call the body is created entirely from the food and drink which is put into the stomach. He began to study the cause of disease at its source. *'The amount of food that he consumed daily would not make a single square meal for the average healthy adult. He consida day's nourishment. ered twelve ounces of solid food sufficient for "His life story indicates further to an extraordinary degree, the value of a yearly fast. During all periods of the year_ his diet was extremely light. But for a considerable period previous to the appearance of the new crop of grapes, his abstinance from food was so extreme as to border closely on a fast. Therefore in the advanced his Dec. Physical advantage of a yearly fast." (From had theMagazine.) age heCulture This man's plan was adopted by the father of Thomas A. Edison, our great inventor, and is followed strictly by himself, his wife and children. To this restricted diet Edison attributes his tremendous working capacity. In these days of war when it is a patriotic duty to save food, fat people can well take themselves in hand and save themselves discomfort and suffering whlie still serving their Government and the cause of humanity nobly. It really should be a disgrace to find fat people going about the streets these days. Don't you want to be fat? Then don't be. ^frs. Clarissa Siiiifli JJ^illiaius. Red Cross. There are always those who willendeavor to belittle the work of the Red Cross activities in France. "soldiers scotch rumors regarding sale of red cross articles. "Soldiers of General Pershing's expeditionar}' force who, undesignedly started rumors that the American Red Cross — ^or its representatives — had been.selling sweaters and other articles to the troops, are hastening to correct the false impression. A careful investigation made by the Red Cross clearly establishes the fact that there is no basis for any such charge. "A cablegram states that Lieutenant H. A. Deesback, of the 16th Infantry, American Expeditionary Force, has obtained the following' signed copy of a letter from Oscar B. Hopkins, Co. G, 16th Infantry, to ]\Irs. Minerva Allison, dated February 17, 1918: " 'I am writing a line to correct a statement regarding a letter I wrote you November 14, 1917. concerning the Red Cross. In a thoughtless moment I wrote that the Red Cro.s'^ charged two prices for things they sold us; but as a matter of fact I have never known them to sell anything to anyone, as far as I know myself. I am, indeed, sorry that my thoughtlessness caused this, and I want you to show this letter to any of the Red Cross workers and offer my apologies.' " Nurses. A call has been made on the National Red Cross Association for.S,000 nurses between now and June 1. Nearly 7,000 nurses have already been supplied, but the need for more grows daily more imperative. It is estimated that v30,000 will be needetl for this year. PARIS notes. "The Red Cross has now five portaljle laundries in operation at the base hospitals. These laundries have proved of great value to the hospitals and others are to be installed as soon as possible." Tobacco and the Red Cross. While this Society may not be the only factor in determining the following changed attitude of the Red Cross at Washington,