[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 1 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]

In Memoriam

President
Antoine R. Ivins
of the First Council of Seventy

May 11, 1881—October 18, 1967

[PHOTOGRAPH]

President Antoine Ridgeway Ivins, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, passed away October 18, 1967 at the age of eighty-six. He succeeded President Levi Edgar Young, as the senior president in 1963. President Ivins has been a member of the First Council of Seventy for thirty-six years. During that time he spent three years as head of the Mexican Mission and thirty years as a member of the Church missionary committee.

A native of St. George, Utah, he was the son of Anthony Woodward and Elizabeth Ashby Snow Ivins. His father was a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and a Counselor in the First Presidency to President Heber J. Grant.

Most of President Ivins' early life was spent in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. He obtained his early education in Colonia Dublan, and was graduated from the Juarez Academy and studied law at the School of Jurisprudence in Mexico City. He also studied at the University of Michigan, then returned to Utah and was graduated from the University of Utah. He was a fluent speaker and a thorough scholar of Spanish.

In 1920 he helped build the Lund Home for Boys at Centerville, Utah. He served six years as treasurer of the Great Salt Lake Boy Scout Council and organized several Scout troops.

Before his appointment to the First Council of Seventy, President Ivins was manager of the Church-owned sugar plantation in Hawaii. Throughout his life, he was dedicated to the gospel, and an active supporter of the youth. In 1957, he received the M-Man Honor Master M-Man award for "outstanding service to the youth of the Church."

He married Vilate Ellen Romney in the Salt Lake Temple, June 26, 1912. Sister Ivins passed away in 1964, two years after they celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary.

The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to President Ivins' family and his many friends. He has left a heritage resplendent in faith and good works, and an excellent example of devotion to the Church for all to follow.

14

Evon W. Peterson
Appointed
General Secretary-
Treasurer

President Belle S. Spafford

[PHOTOGRAPH]

■ The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment by the First Presidency of Sister Evon Waspe Peterson as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society on November 15, 1967. Sister Peterson has served as a member of the General Board since June 15, 1945, during which time she has made a significant contribution to the advancement of the work of Relief Society as a General Board member, and has endeared herself to the women of Relief Society through her thoughtful consideration of them and through her capable service in working with them.

In April 1952, she was named Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a position which involves responsible managerial duties, which she has met with competency and in a spirit of dedicated service.

Through training and experience in both Relief Society work and in the field of business, Sister Peterson is eminently qualified to hold the important office of General Secretary-Treasurer. Prior to her call to the General Board, she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, was secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Since her childhood, she has consistently worked in the auxiliaries of the Church, serving the Relief Society in both ward and stake capacities, generally holding secretary-treasurer or presidency offices.

Sister Peterson is by nature modest and unassuming. She is loyal to those who preside over her and is trustworthy in every assignment given her. She is a prodigious as well as a highly competent worker.

She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of two children—a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton, and a son, Ronald E. Peterson—all of whom devotedly support her in her Church callings. She is the grandmother of six children.

Sister Peterson's parental home—the home of Brother and Sister William Waspe, converts to the Church from England—was a home where service to the Church was a way of life.

In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her future service will be a blessing to the sisters and to the Relief Society just as her past service has been. We all wish for her much happiness in her new calling.

15

Hulda P. Young
Resigns as
General Secretary-
Treasurer

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

[PHOTOGRAPH]

■ The nearly eleven years of devoted service which Hulda Parker Young has given to the office of General Secretary-Treasurer terminated on November 15, 1967. Many life experiences have come to Sister Young in these busy and fruitful years. She married Elder S. Dilworth Young in 1965, and is now resigning from the General Board in order to devote her time to her husband and home duties. She served from January 2, 1957.

Sister Young has given full devotion to her calling. She has always been eager to undertake any activity or attend any meetings which would better qualify her for her position. She felt the same desire for the secretaries who have worked with her and was always ready to advise and train them and to give them opportunity for advancement and progress.

The trust reposed in Sister Young regarding the General Board minutes and Relief Society Annual General Conference minutes has been fulfilled, and she leaves the office with all matters for which she has been responsible up-to-date. She has always been enthusiastic in her work with a perception of what should be included in the report of proceedings. Her secretary-treasurer departments at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences have been of great help to the stake and mission secretary-treasurers.

Sister Young has also fulfilled every assignment given to her as a General Board member, accepting assignments throughout the world where stakes are organized. She has evidenced a high regard and loyalty to the General Presidency, and has always been ready to carry out their wishes.

She has had a clear insight into her position and anticipated needed changes, keeping abreast in her records with the phenomenal growth of the Church.

Sister Young will be greatly missed by her associates of the General Board. Her cheery temperament, her friendly interest in people, her desire to do good, and her strong testimony of the gospel have all endeared her to those with whom she has worked.

Relief Society workers throughout the world will wish happiness and satisfaction to Hulda Parker Young as she relinquishes her special calling in Relief Society.

16
