VOLUME VIII NOVEMBER, 1921 NUMBER 11

WALKER FARMINGTON JULIA NO. 1

L. D. S. GARMENTS

LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS

The Sign of Quality

GARMENTS

The Sign of Comfort

If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request.

Style Price
1 Special Summer weight........$1.25
24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25
15 Bleached spring needle gauge 1.75
25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25
3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 2.00
75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50

Style Price
90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50
50 Lisle, gauze wt. Bleached... 2.65
107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75
109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25
65 Mercerized, lt. Wt., bleached 3.75
305 Australian wool, lt. Wt........ 6.00
1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00

We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you.

Salt Lake Knitting Store
70 Main St. Salt Lake City

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department
22 Bishop's Building
Prompt attention given all out of town orders

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.

$100.00 For this Beauty
Take 15 Months to Pay

"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"

POSER JS DAYRES I PRESIDED

Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for October? If not, write or call on

W. M. McCONAHAY
The Reliable Jeweler
64 So. Main St.
Phone W. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

Latter-Day Saints Garments

APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT

Summer Weight

Heavy weight, bleached........$2.00
Bleached.........................1.75
Light weight, cotton...........1.50
Medium wool, mixed...........3.00
Heavy wool, mixed.............4.00
Snow White Silkaline...........3.40
Heavy weight, cotton...........2.25
All Merino Wool..................5.50

What Do Your Children Read?

Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so many wholesome, clean books that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap.

Merry Christmas

Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest books that are high class, books that meet exactly the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists.

An electrical gift brings Christmas cheer every day for years. It's useful and beautiful. What could be more appropriate?

Come in now and select at leisure from our large stock. Buy early.

UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
"Efficient Public Service"

The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

CONTENTS NOVEMBER,

Page

1921 President Heber J. Grant Overlooking Dixie Frontispiece
My Dixie Home President A. W. Ivins 615
A Memorable Journey to the Scenic Glories of Southern Utah Susa Young Gates 617
Origin, Object and Destiny of Women 633
Marigold Raveina Lundgren 635
The Missionary's Recompense Edith Anna Johnson 637
Don't Let the Baby Forget Me L. Lula Greene Richards 639
Out of the World G. Milton Babcock 640
Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman 647
World Happenings James H. Anderson 654
Editorial: Sparks Struck from the Conference Fires 658
Guide Lessons for January 661

ADVERTISEMENT

An Exact Model Your Own Figure

Make your own Dress Form according to methods taught by the Agricultural Colleges and U. S. Dept. Of Agriculture Cooperating

THE LOUISE DRESS FORM SET
Contains all the necessary material
Price $1.00 postage fully prepaid

Carpenter Paper Co.
SALT LAKE CITY
Address all inquiries to Dept. 12

My Dixie Home
By President A. W. Ivins
(Melody: "Maryland, My Maryland")

Beloved Southland, dear to me,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
My Heart in song I raise to thee,.
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Land where my fathers toiled and died,
Once scorned of men, but now their pride,
I'll sing thy praises far and wide,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!

I love thy rugged cliffs and peaks.
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Thy valleys broad and canyons deep,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Thy hills where wander sheep and kine,
Thy gift of honey, milk and wine,
Thy moon's white beams and bright sunshine,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!

Thy churches, schools and temple white,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Have kept thy children's conscience bright,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Thy sons are bles't with wisdom rare,
Thy daughters clothed in virtue fair,
Their loyalty beyond compare,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!

Where'er I go o'er land or sea,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
My heart returns in love to thee,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
If blest with wealth beyond degree,
Or humbled by adversity,
Thou ever still to me shall be,
My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT OVERLOOKING DIXIE ON HURRICANE MOUNTAIN

THE | | Relief Society Magazine
Vol. VIII NOVEMBER, 1921 No. 11

A Memorable Journey to the Scenic Glories of Southern Utah
By Susa Young Gates

The recent sight-seeing group convention and trip to southern Utah, planned by President Heber J. Grant, and President Anthony W. Ivins was partly arranged on the invitation of the principal railroad men of this Inter-mountain region, and it was both important, in its bearing upon the future, and happy in its personnel and arrangements.

"See America First," has been written across the advertising pages of railroad folders and guide books issued in this country, for years. It is the sentiment of every true American who loves his country and realizes that knowledge concerning our own homeland is essential to the cultured person before he begins to study other lands and visit other homes. It is an adaptation of the scriptural phrase "Know thyself, O man." "See Utah First," should be written for a season at least, across every auto route or log-book, railroad guide, newspaper, and magazine published in this state. Utah possesses within herself more varied scenery, perhaps, than any other state in the Union. The towering crags and mountain dells, the snow-capped pinnacles and rugged canyon defiles of the northern section of the state have been advertised, and visited extensively by native Utahns as well as by thousands of tourists and pleasure seekers; but the southern part of the state, with its scenic resources, until recently, has been a sealed book even to the people who have been born and brought up in the valleys of that section of the state. A few daring adventurers, cattlemen and the native Indians, during the half century of residence there, have seen what is now known as Little Zion Canyon, the Cedar Breaks, and Bryce 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Canyon, to say nothing of the Kaibab Forest which extends sixty miles on and beyond the dividing line between Utah and Arizona south of Kanab, clean onto the rim of the Grand Canyon; but the vast majority of the people who have lived in Panguitch, Kanab, St. George, Cedar and Parowan, with the other little villages near them—few indeed of these natives of southern Utah have ever troubled to make the trip which now is considered one of the great artistic and educational sights of this United States of ours. It would be a good idea for the Boy Scouts and Mutual Improvement Associations to make a business of paying visits to these wonders, for the trip possesses an educational value impossible to overestimate. Such scenes widen the vision, enlarge the spirit, and bring the soul into communion with God through his masterpieces. Some of the earnest and forward-looking men of the southland long have been endeavoring to impress these thoughts upon the people of the state, and especially upon the business and railroad men. It is true, their motives may be the naturally mingled motives of men everywhere, a desire to improve business and financial conditions, to develop natural resources, and to bring people into the country; but our own people are too sensible of the purposes of the Lord, and too idealistic, not to feel instinctively the spiritual value of all this recent propaganda.

The Church party was invited by President Heber J. Grant, whose lovely and gracious wife, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, accompanied him. The party were to attend two conferences after the visit to the canyons, one at Kanab, September 10 and 11, and the other at St. George, September 17 and 18; Elder Robert L. Judd, son-in-law of President Grant, represented the General Board of the Sunday School, and he was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Mary Grant Judd; President Anthony W. Ivins, who had long planned such a trip but whose wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, daughter of Dixie's great pioneer and beloved leader Apostle Erastus Snow, was not able to go, had his youngest daughter, Fulvia, with him. He and Fulvia traveled with his son-in-law, Professor Vincent Cardon, the new principal of the Cedar Branch Agricultural College, with his wife Mrs. Leah Ivins Cardon, and their two little daughters Lucy-Beth, and Margaret. Elder George A. Smith, of the council of the Twelve, the newly appointed superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith who represented the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations; his daughter, Mrs. Emily Smith Stewart, represented the General Board of the Primary Associations, and they were in the auto driven by that excellent autoist, Elder LeRoi C. Snow, of the General Board Y. M. M. I. A., son of President A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 619 Lorenzo Snow. Mrs. Susa Young Gates was from the General Board of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Ruth May Fox, one of the Presidency of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, were with the party, although Mrs. Fox was obliged to return after the conference in Kanab. The magnetism and enthusiasm of youth was added to the party by the exquisite beauty of Fulvia Ivins, the bubbling vivacity of Emily Smith Stewart, and the refined dignity of the two young matrons, Mary Grant Judd and Leah Ivins Cardon; while the irrepressibly childish joy of Lucy-Beth, and Margaret, were a never-failing source of delight.

The railroad party was headed by the well-known railroad man MISS FULVIA IVINS Pa leader and publicist, Mr. W. S. Basinger, Passenger Traffic Manager of the Union Pacific System, who came from Omaha for this trip. The details of the sight-seeing trip itself were arranged by the genial General Passenger Agent of the O. S. L. R. R., Mr. Daniel S. Spencer, who is a past-grandmaster in such matters. Mr. A. L. Craig, General Passenger Agent of the U. P., accompanied Mr. Basinger from Omaha. From Los Angeles came Mr. Marius de Brabant, Assistant Traffic Manager of Los Angeles and Salt Lake R. R., a courtly Frenchman with old-world manners and new-world dynamics. Charm and refinement shed its genial ray upon the railroad party through the delightful personality of Mrs. Armstrong, who accompanied her husband, Mr. W. R. Armstrong, Chief Engineer of the O. S. L. R. R. The superintendent of the Grand Canyon National Park, Mr. D. L. Reaburn came up from Arizona to join the party. Colonel Wesley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE E. King, of the Commercial Club, with Dr. S. Bascom M: Lawrence S. Ma ger, President of the Salt Transportation company, Ch GP TY, President of National Park Transportation Company, Mr. Eyr Powell, the live-wire publicity man of the U. System from Cheyenne, Wyoming, Mr. Ler and Mr. Ajj Pyper, chauffeurs all came from Salt Lake with the railroad party. President Henry - "unt, of the Parowan Stake of Zion, and state Senator, joined the Cedar, as did Mr. Randall L. Gi a, Secretary of the Cedar City Commercial Club. At Kanab President of the Kanab Stake of 7; ngel Point by way of Kanab to Bryce, Panguitch, Parowan, Cedar Breaks, returning down Cedar Canyon thence to Cedar City and Lund, Point. From every indication there could be no doubt but that these A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 621 ists into and through Southern Utah. Utah people know the splendid work done by Mr. D. S. Spencer, LEE - Of course, this would be a stupendous MR. D. S. SPENCER undertaking when one knows that approximately 100,000 people visit Yellowstone Park each year. When Mr. Spencer began his campaign there fifteen they were joined at Cedar city by the remainder of the party who went by autos and spent the night in Cedar. There is a remarkable awakening in this pretty little city, A beautiful new hotel first building in the town. There is quite a section of a Main Street here, with two drug stores, two meat markets and several dry goods and general merchandise stores. Many hundreds of 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Tourists pass through here weekly, and good camping grounds are arranged for those who wish to avail themselves of this privilege. Just outside of town is a pathetic mixture of tepee and white man's shacks, forming an Indian suburb which houses a little group of placid looking Lamanites. A number of the visitors who had arrived before the railroad men, took a trip up to the Cedar Breaks, on Tuesday, September 5. The road was about twice as narrow as the Brighton road and one half again as steep. Ruts were plentiful and mud holes not rare, but the party was engineered by that delightful optimist, Wilford Day, (his name should have been 'Dawn-O'-Day") whose persistent cheerfulness and refusal to recognize mud-holes or ruts as such, his delightful wit and constant appeals to one's sense of fair-play, with his rich drafts on the scenic futures, kept the whole party keyed up with hope and persistence to climb and MR. W. S. BASINGER IN LITTLE ZION CANYON climb even if the whole engine burst and truth ran out like a flood from beneath. His quick assurance, when asked if there were any more hills to climb, that there were no more hills, "just the same hill" all the rest of the way, robbed the elevation of its terrors, even the panting engine took a new spurt, and we all reached the rim of the Cedar Breaks in high good humor, The sight was well worth the effort and the climb; Cedar Breaks is a Little Grand Canyon. After you have visited the Grand Canyon, you can go back to the Cedar Breaks and feel that your smaller portion of magnificence and grandeur, at Cedar, is far more fitted to your finite comprehension, and you do not feel so lost A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 623 in the immensity of glory. You can comfortably trail down a way into the Breaks and look off to the glorious peaks, below and beyond you, with quite a chummy feeling of your personal nearness and the gorge's mortal possibilities. The marvel to the person who has lived in Dixie for many years is that this scenic beauty has remained till this decade for exploitation and observation. The whole party reached the Wiley camps, at Little Zion, the next evening, September 6th. At Cedar Breaks, as at the Grand Canyon, you stand on the edge of the earth crack and look way below you into the vast reaches of imprisoned glory. In Little Zion, the towering red and yellow fantastic crags and peaks rise up into the blue sky in quite a natural manner. That is the way we have always looked at mountains and peaks and rocks and crags, so that no matter how high they are, nor how brilliant in color or fantastic in shape and contour, you feel quite at home with your feet on the earth as you travel along the road between them. The awful shock that comes to you when you stand on the rim of Bryce or the Grand Canyon or on the rim of Cedar Breaks is the sensation of finding that the earth has opened at your feet and disclosed another unknown world of crags and peaks and mountains miles below you, too far down for your eye even to differentiate one from the other. You feel that in some uncanny way this old earth has played a trick on you, by gashing its bosom for you to gaze in awe at its hidden interior. As a matter of sanity you rather prefer old Mother Earth to keep herself normally covered, with you decently on the surface. The Wiley camps at Little Zion are complete in arrangement, excellent in service, and extremely comfortable in detail; food and beds are of the best. The only drawback is the fewness of tents, when so large a party as ours were present. It will take a little time before even the resources of the Wiley' camps can afford to provide for great parties. As a matter of fact, large parties go rarely there. For smaller parties of a dozen or more, the arrangements are more than satisfactory. Mr. And Mrs. Wiley themselves, who originated the Wiley Camps all over Yellowstone Park, were there, and greeted the party with genial courtesy. At the request of a hundred or two visitors from the nearby towns, a meeting was held that night in which the delightful periods of Major King, the humor of Mr. Basinger, and Mr. Armstrong, were varied by the forceful remarks of President Grant and the moving and finished eloquence of President Anthony W. Ivins; all of which offered a fitting tribute to the glory with which the party were surrounded. Assurances of future efforts to develop these natural resources through better roads, railroad help, GROUP TAKEN AT ANDERSON'S. RANCH, BELLEVUE A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 625 resourcefulness which will place him in the front ranks of his chosen business in life. Such young men are a credit to the Church and the State. Grapes, found on the sunny slopes of French vineyards, and the only ones he had found since leaving his home that possessed the black grapes, with tons of watermelons, marked the triumphal progress of the party at every stop through Dixieland, Another picture was taken while the party were at a table spread, in Hurricane, by Brother Isom, assisted by the friendly citizens of that live little city. A stay overnight was made in Kanab by the whole party, and the next day the trip was taken through the exquisitely beautiful reserve, Kaibab Forest. The Kaibab Forest lies in what is luscious peeled, dried peaches ever boxed, weighted, and prepared for shipping, in any land or clime. With a railroad the Dixie people should have a gold mine in the natural products. Going up the steep incline of Hurricane Hill, in a smooth-running, easy-riding auto, is a violent contrast for the Dixieite who has negotiated that rock-ribbed, winding, sandy-spotted dugway in a groaning and creaking lumber-wagon drawn by horses, or beside or behind them, who were reeking with foamy sweat, tottering from wildly-swinging single-trees and tongue-lolling 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. from heat and thirst. O yes, it was an abysmal change! A significant picture of the journey was the picture of our President standing on the top of the mountain and gazing at the brilliant contrasts of black rock, red sandstone hills, and garden-green towns spread out below him as Dixieland unfolded to his gaze. Pine-tree forest which is varied by open parks and peopled by 20,000 deer. The deer are not afraid, and you often see them grazing in herds in the near distance. NORTH RIM OF GRAND CANYON At Bright Angel Point we found Mrs. Parry, the daughter of the Wileys, in charge of the camp, and we here again were made comfortable and happy. Some venturesome ones took A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 627 it often terrifies women and even men, some of whom are reduced to hysterics. It certainly tries the knees of aged climbers, and only youth and intrepid nerves really fit the observer to enjoy the sensation. Presidents Grant, Ivins and Elder George A. Smith climbed up, and soon the camp was flooded with the ringing melody of "O, ye mountains high!" Another delightful time was experienced at the Canyon rim, music and speeches varying the evening's entertainment. At the Rim we met Mr. George Q. Morris and his famous wife with the beautiful voice, Emma Ramsey Morris; and Professor Beckstrand and wife of the University of Utah, but they remained with us only overnight. BRYCE CANYON The R. R. Party left early the next morning. The Church Party remained a few morning hours at the Point, and then reached Kanab that evening, September 9, ready for the conference which was to be held on Saturday and Sunday, September 10 and 11. The meetings were unusually interesting, and the soul-stirring address on loyalty by President Anthony W. Ivins touched the people deeply; while the timely remarks of Elder George A. Smith, closing with the powerful testimonies of President Heber J. Grant were forceful and inspiring. Rarely has the President spoken with more convincing power! Each of the visitors in every convention did the work allotted to him or her with vigor and dispatch. Elder Smith has so recently returned from his mission abroad that he found eager listeners to his every word. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. And right nobly did he respond to the sympathetic desires of his Elder Judd was particularly apt in his talk concerning the two boys who started out with equal chances, but ending at opposite ends because of different use of life's chances. While at La Virkin Elder Judd met his aged father, that Dixie patriot and state-wide horticulturist, Bishop Thomas Judd, who had ridden over from St. George to see his son, although in feeble health. Farmers and stock raisers all through this section of the country are very much discouraged with the financial outlook, as they are indeed all over the United States, but the spirit of the people is beautiful and harmonious. President William Seegmiller of this stake has a wide vision, and deserves the love and confidence so generously given to him by the people of his stake. President Grant returned September 12, with a portion of the party, visiting Bryce Canyon near Panguitch, and returning home about the middle of the week. Bryce Canyon is like and yet unlike all the others. Nature, working in untold ages through the agency of her master builder—erosion—has created here, in Bryce Canyon, in the heart of southern Utah's Wonderland, an appalling spectacle that is destined to charm countless mortals in the years to come. It ranks with the greatest of the world's wonders. In fact it is the only known spectacle of its kind in existence. It has proven its popularity as a world wide scenic attraction by the thousands of tourists who have already visited here, and who have A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 629 pronounced it as undoubtedly the greatest single scenic eyeful in the world. Bryce Canyon is not really a canyon but a giant amphitheatre or basin about two miles wide and three miles long. It lies on the edge of a high plateau, at an elevation of eight thousand feet, in the heart of the Sevier National Forest in Garfield county, Utah. Vast and mighty miracles have been wrought here; for the softer parts of the mountain have been eroded away, leaving an indescribably weird array of huge towers, spires, minarets and temples adorning the sides and bottom of the canyon. The first view of it as you arrive is from the top or rim, and at the beginning there is far too much to see; far too much to comprehend. The imposing monuments and labyrinthine depths of this tremendous chasm, all in a mass of unbelievably gorgeous colors, fairly stagger the mind and move the soul to awe and adoration at the manifestation of an agency too great for human comprehension. In places there is a sheer drop of eight hundred feet from the rim to the floor of the canyon, and many of the giant monoliths far exceed in height the tallest office building. President Anthony W. Ivins and Elder George A. Smith and associates went on to St. George holding the conference scheduled in that city for September 17 and 18. The festival in St. George was on during that week, It consisted chiefly of Wild West shows and a grand concert, by Emma Lucy Gates and Frances Grant The people were delighted with the show and with the concert given by these two artists. Emma Lucy came down by auto with a party, President Joseph Quinney and wife of the Logan stake, Mr. Albert E. Bowen, whose wife happens to be Emma Lucy herself, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and wife, with Miss Frances Grant. The party left St. George immediately after the concert, driving back to Cedar for a concert there September 17, after which they made the rounds of the Canyons. The conference which followed was successful in every particular. A number of the visitors attended services in the St. George temple and enjoyed the happy association with that veteran temple worker and long time St. George Temple President, David H. Cannon. No more beautiful and healthful winter resort is found in America than St. George. Dry, warm, sunny, and surrounded with dazzling jet black, red and gold mountain scenery, the home of superior and genial Latter-day Saints, with the supreme attraction of a temple as the jewel in its crown of rare semi-tropical beauty, the wonder is that our people who travel do not spend their winters here instead of in that misty, soggy-wet, crowded, vanity-loving winter-resort, Los Angeles! The temple is never crowded. Hundreds more could be ac- 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE commodated by skillful planning, and the Saints could partake of the pure, heavenly influence therein maintained. President Cannon has preserved in clear-verbal memory and in careful records the instructions and sayings of President Brigham Young who spent his last winter on earth within these sacred walls, instructing the brethren in minute details concerning the ordinance work revealed by the Prophet Joseph Smith and taught in careful exactitude to Brigham Young by the Prophet himself. The ceremonies are precisely the same as given there under President Young, in 1877, with a single exception. President Edward H. Snow, is a rare combination of financial condition is safer perhaps in St. George than in some other sections of the southern country, at least, their own intelligent and appropriate discrimination concerning the value of education for young people, and the vast possibilities of the future for the youth of this Church and State, He rendered called home by the serious illness of her beloved husband. The sisters in the party each spoke at the various meetings, A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 631 far from well, still remains on the stake board giving the new President the benefit of her experience and counsel. Ranch, where his cattle ranged; the St. George fields where he watered alfalfa or hunted young quail and cotton-tail rabbits, all of it. In Sabbath services at the St. George conference with deep feeling. Powerful faith of the men who had laid the foundation of these isolated cities in our southern counties, he paid tribute to the music was of a superior character. He St. George festival was closed with the annual distribution of fruit to visitors and citizens. Not less enjoyable was the r Smith, to St. George; for St. George was named for his stand- 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Father and Elder Smith himself spent a long winter there rallying his health forces a few years since. His own geniality and brotherly kindness, together with his wife and daughter's kindly and attractive personalities, left delightful impressions upon their old-time and new friends in this southern city of the Saints. Elder LeRoi C. Snow, who accompanied Elder Smith, also gave good evidence of inheriting his father's quick apperceptions, gentle courtesy, and true loyalty to the gospel message. With the coming railroad and a possible oil boom, St. George may be swamped with modern business men and institutions; but in his remarks on the Sabbath day, President Ivins urged upon the people to get out of debt, to keep out of debt, and above all not to mortgage their homes, much less dispose of them in the present financial crisis. He deplored the season of extravagance which has swept over our people in common with the rest of the world and counseled the Saints to habits of thrift and economy. President Edward H. Snow has long administered the affairs of this stake with wisdom and kindness; while his associates have ably assisted him in maintaining the fatherly solicitude which was so much a part of the labors of his great father, President Erastus Snow. When one observes the history of this section of our state, one is reminded of the saying of President Brigham Young: He was asked what could be raised in Dixie, and his characteristic reply was, "Men and women." A study of the roster of notables who have performed great service in this Church, in colonizing Arizona, New Mexico and Old Mexico; in educational and musical fields; in missions, both as presiding officers and as faithful missionaries in civic and business circles of the state and nation; as stake and general authorities, including both men and women—in all of these walks of life the Dixie descendants of those faithful, isolated pioneers will be found to have written their names in undying letters upon the scroll of history. Whatever may come to Dixie in the future, no finer crop will ever be raised than the men and women who have been born or reared there. God bless Dixie, and her people. Two charming reminders and mementos of the trip came to the members of the party; the one from President Heber J. Grant, being the new history of the "Mormon Settlement in Arizona," the other being a handsome photograph album filled with the official pictures taken along the route and presented by Mr. W. S. Basinger.

Origin, Object and Destiny of Women

The following is taken from The Mormons, published in New York City by the late President John Taylor, of August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished us by Robert Maw, of Plain City:

The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. We have often been requested to give our views in relation to the principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore not meet to give them to those without. But being very politely requested by a lady a few days since, (a member of the Church) to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse;—viz., Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? And what is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?" For her benefit and all others concerned, we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for eternity.

Lady, whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me if thou hast understanding? Knowest thou not, that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of his eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy heavenly Father's bosom, and in his presence, with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, thou wert surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the Gods? That as thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou grew in intelligence, thou sawest worlds upon worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits, take upon them tabernacles, die, but resurrected and receive their exaltation on the redeemed worlds they once dwelt upon. Thou, being willing and anxious to imitate them, waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission. Thou made a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits, to be thy guardian angel while in mortality; also covenanted with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of their offspring. You also chose a kindred spirit whom you loved in the spirit world, (and had permission to come to this planet and take a tabernacle,) to be your head, stay, husband, and protection on the earth, and to exalt you in the eternal worlds. All these were arranged, likewise the spirits that should tabernacle through your lineage. Thou longed, thou sighed, and prayed to thy Father in heaven for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob, leaving thy father and mother's bosoms and all thy kindred spirits to come to earth, take a tabernacle, and to imitate the deeds of those you had seen exalted before you. At length the time arrived, and thou heardst the voice of thy Father, saying. "Go, daughter, to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle, and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But, daughter, remember you go on this condition, that is, you are to forget all things you ever saw, or knew to be transacted here; but you must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in your infancy subject to sickness, pain, tears mourning, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of your heart they will vibrate, then intelligence shall illuminate your mind, and shed its lustre in your soul, and you shall begin to understand the things you once knew, but which had gone from you, you shall then begin to understand and know the object of your creation. Daughter, go, and be faithful in your second estate. Keep it as faithful as thou hast thy first estate." Thy spirit—filled with joy and thanksgiving—rejoiced in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou badest father, mother and all farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, you came on this terraqueous globe. The spirits thou hadst chosen for parents came and took tabernacles. Through their lineage; (and your head having left the spirit world some years previous ) thou didst come a spirit pure and holy; thou hast taken upon thee a tabernacle, thou hast watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him you loved in the spirit world to be thy companion Now crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee in the eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of the heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by, and walk in a, celestial law, fulfil the designs of thy creation, and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, you may go down to your grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive your everlasting reward in the resurrection of the just, along with Priestess—queen unto thy heavenly Father, and a glory to thy. Husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other mate destiny, if faith fay Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink then the heavenly draught and live,

Yarrow
By Raveing Lundgren

It is too early for rowan,
Still, there is rue,
Rue has its charm.
The heartsease died in the frost.
The hesperis too, gather yarrow, bitter of leaf,
Hardly friend of the barrens.
Undismayed pioneer,
Known to the tired of foot and heart,
After your winter, you hail it comrade, leaf of good cheer.
A leaf of good cheer,
Bride's Wreath of yarrow—by chance I found the charmful, old-fashioned thought.
636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The old wife made of it steepage for pain.
When the world was new
It had magic to find a friend.
Or carry away from here to yonder,
If mentioned with rue.
And a fairy's cap.
By yarrow and rue, name the place you would rather be,
Over, beyond, away, and through,
Name the place you would rather be,
And be there too.
Now the rowan tree works a wild, glad spell.
Yellow trefoil, if worn
Nightly on a believer's breast, brings dreams—for the wise to scorn.
And lad's love has a proven power.
And mistletoe.
And thorn.
A whitethorn torch for a new hearth-fire.
They are not forlorn
Who know trefoil and rowan tree and mistletoe and thorn.
The ash tree's a northern mystic.
A line of old wive's lore
Keeps out malice and evil spite with dill hung over the door.
Sesame, fern, and forget-me-not, hazel, and many more
Weird sweet workers of witchery, the charmed heart names them o'er.
Recorded in quaintest botany these, and as many more.
But the bitter yarrow, the bitter rue,
Tangful breaths that the young earth drew,
Fairy's charm-leaf, old wive's brew,
Showing no sweetness, they strangely woo
The troubled of heart as no others do.

CORRECTION
Our October number published the story, "The Wages of Sin" with the author's name given as Lucy Guyman. Her married name of Bloomfield should have been added.

Morga was weary and footsore he traveled far that day through endless stretches, so it seemed, with never a habitat; in sight or some reason or other his companion thinking it strange that he had not heard the team coming Elder Morgan gratefully accepted the offer and climbed into the side the driver, The elder thanked God for his help and eagerly accepted the invitation, For a few moments the two rode in silence and then Elder wife and I have been hoping and praying that we might find a belief which really satisfied our hungry souls," said Mr. Forbes, "Before the death of our little son religion didn't matter much, We seemed merely to live without giving it a thought," Sometimes takes sorrow and even death to open our er. My wife and I have been told by many," said Mr. Forbes, "that death ended conscious existence, and that when we laid our son to his last rest it was the end, It did not seem reason_ John where Christ said: 'I am the resurrection and the life, and whosoever believeth in me, though he be dead, yet shall he live, and 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.' The scriptures prove that there is a brighter and more glorious life to come after this one." "But how can a soul be saved after a person is dead?" asked Mr. Forbes, "I shall try to answer that question to your satisfaction," replied Morgan, "Where was Christ during the three days that his body lay in the tomb?" "I don't know." "He was preaching to the souls in Paradise, according to St, Peter, and Paradise does not mean heaven, but a place where The ride continued for a while in silence and then Mr, Forbes asked: "Are you a 'Mormon?' " "Yes," Stand?" Mr. Forbes drove in deep thought to the door of his farm house. As he kissed his wife and told her who the missionary sell the farm. In the meantime stay with us and tell us more about your wonderful religion,"

Don't Let the Baby Forget Me
By L. Lula Greene Richards

Don't let the baby forget me
When I shall be far away—
Show her my photograph often,
Tell her about me each day.
Others will note my long absence
Sometimes almost with regret—
Think then of what I am saying,
Don't let the baby forget.

Chorus:
Show her my photograph often
Tell her of me every day,
Don't let the baby forget me,
When I am far, far away!

Friends will enquire about me,
Neighbors will ask how I fare,
Home love I know will be loyal
Naming me daily in prayer.
Storm clouds may gather and darken,
Harships my way may beset—
Pray that my faith may not waver,
Don't let the baby forget!

Chorus:
Show her my photograph often, etc.

Joy in the blessed home coming
After the mission is done—
Fore-taste of beautiful heaven
With life's great victory won.
Duty has called, I am going,
Owing my Savior a debt.
Let us thank God and be faithful—
Don't let the baby forget!

Chorus:
Show her my photograph often,
Tell her of me every day,
Don't let the baby forget me
When I am far, far away!

ck (Continued)
"Oh, don't go down there!" She pleaded piteously. "They'll kill you. They're all drunk and won't listen to reason. Talk to them from the window—op, hear that! What they've done!" Wall Iter c) Stealthily to the front room just in time to hear the land) d—g striker himself, but one who evidently had damaging his property, one of the more timid scene ot to the others spirits fled from be recognized, and after some argument, shuffled sulkily away, "Thank: ba breathe 'his mother, "Oh, um away from that church; I'm afraid some day." Not a i me of Jesus Christ," he as he prepared to resume his rest. The next morning Walter feared somewhat to the off; a Berean were gathered to walk th groups of men and women the happenings of the night, and b" and "Brigham" t him passed by, ers d eatening gestures, and several times Walter's heart was his mouth as a result reached the office was immediately intro. Duced to a "erton" detective from New York City, Mr, Peters, Walter was instructed t warned that un I ork City, Mr, take dictation from Peters, and er no circumsta wa atter's affairs, " e to reveal] any of the that was some scrap we were in last night!" offered Peters a few minutes later, as he slouched int room, a chair in Walter's ed up in surprise, " ere you in it?" Should 5 I! See that scar et grazed me," queried. On my cheek? How did —that's she shrieked tering glass in I Iection stayed a hom ssile came through the front window, shat. D smashing a picture from the come to the front door and berate the mob for OUT OF THE WORLD. 641 "Well, you'll get the particulars when I dictate my report; but it was like this: I had ten men with me to help guard the scabs—fifty of 'em—come all the way from New York—and a dirtier bunch I never saw, every last one of them picked up in the slums! I can tell you its business I don't like, but it pays me well, so what can I do? "Well, we hardly got switched onto the spur track before the trouble began. They must have had pickets on the job, for every bell in the country began to ring, and after a while stones began to fly through the car windows. But that wasn't a circumstance to what was pulled off when we got near the mill gate. Then the strikers got after us with pistols, rifles, old shot guns and everything else. -Most of it went through one window and out the "My men returned the fire in good shape, and I took a shot once in a while myself, but it was so dark that we could hardly see an inch in front of us. The engine slowed down and all of a sudden the back of our car was dynamited, and with that the mob stopped shootin', The engineer says that just after the blowup, a fellow jumped in the cab, put a pistol to his head and made "How on earth did you manage to get back with the coach "It's a mystery to me how the wheels ever kept to the tracks— but they did, and we got back over the trestle when they set it "How'll we get the strike-breakers in now?" "I reckon the company will get out an injunction against the union that'll stop interference with the scabs. I managed to get here in a closed automobile. I imagine, though, from what I've had with other strikes, that it'll take the militia to get them in The guard was right: the men were in an ugly mood. While 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Injunction was openly disregarded, and the strikers, in desperation, laid violent hands upon every non-union worker that dared appear on the streets. This brought the militia—two companies from Saratoga and one from Schenectady. The mill virtually was turned into an armed camp, a powerful searchlight being mounted in the top of the sulphite tower, with sharpshooters watching at all points of the compass for possible depredations on the part of the strikers, For a time, it looked as if the men would speedily win their demands. The company was able to obtain only the lowest class of laborers—and very few of them. After they were secured, it was like "pulling teeth" to keep them. They demanded everything under the sun—comfortable quarters, good food and plenty of it, and high wages. All these demands were met, the company, apparently, being willing to pay them double what their former employees asked; and, strange to say, the eatables which were furnished were much more abundant and of a better quality than most of the strikers had been able to afford in their homes under normal conditions. During this trying period Walter was offered the position of night timekeeper to take the place of the former man who had resigned shortly after the strike was inaugurated because of his union sympathies. Walter hesitated about accepting, and not until he had sought out Mr. Whitman and learned: his views on the subject did he give a decided answer. Mr. Whitman told him to go ahead—that the former timekeeper had secured a good job in another town, and that the men desired that the well-being of the office force be guarded. Walter expressed to Mr. Whitman his sympathy with the union, though natural loyalty to the company impelled him to be careful what sentiments he expressed openly. Mr. Whitman took advantage of the occasion to suggest that Walter might be of service to the union by keeping him informed of the daily production of paper at the mill. However, Walter did not receive the suggestion very favorably and made no promises. The production phase gradually assumed the importance of a deciding factor in the strike situation. The flow of strikebreakers was satisfactory to the officials of the company and the organization at the mill became more efficient—so the company reported. Suddenly, the number of cars shipped jumped to the daily average under normal conditions, and the employers gave out the news that normal production had been reached. Discouragement began to make itself manifest in the ranks of the strikers at the news. Many had gone to nearby cities seeking temporary work only to meet with repulse, as a rule. Conditions in the village rapidly became alarming. Starva- OUT OF THE WORLD. - 643 tion was approaching and children went crying to school because of insufficient nourishment, while mothers with babes at their breasts pleaded piteously for more food. The funds of the organization were practically exhausted and help from the outside was insufficient to replenish the treasury. One afternoon, when Walter's Methodist friend, John Perkins, who had remained with the company was explaining to Walter that he was satisfied with his wages and too old to strike, anyway—started for home, boys with cans full of stones bombarded him. He dared not lay hands on his tormenters, for fathers were nearby who would be only too glad to take vengeance upon him under the guise of protecting their offspring. As he proceeded up the street, he quickened his pace, now and then ducking and dodging to avoid a larger missile than usual. Finally, to the delight of the youngsters, he took to his heels, his long, stilty legs swinging desperately over the flagstones to the accompaniment of roars of laughter from the adult onlookers and yells of derision from his tormenters. The office force witnessed the reception John received and feared to start out, for the uproar drew youngsters from all directions—like a street arc lamp attracts moths—each individual urchin bent on doing his full share to make the discomforture of Perkins complete. The superintendent granted permission to depart via. The yard gate, which would avoid the mob, but Crader, whose wife was awaiting him with horse and buggy, elected to accompany her, and Walter felt that he, himself, would be able to get through all right as it was pretty generally known among the strikers that he leaned toward their cause. Crader started out just ahead of Walter, drawing the mob of boys after him—Perkins having reached home—and when he turned off into another street it appeared that Walter would get by unscathed. However, as the horse gained. On the boys, they dropped the pursuit and upon spying Walter the cry went up, "Here comes another!" Walter almost ran past the intersection of the streets, but it was apparent that he could not escape. The howls of his pursuers rapidly sounded louder in his ears, while the shrill taunts and cries of women along the streets were added to the din. Several men elbowed him roughly as he passed hurriedly along. Just as the boys were about to overtake him, a girl suddenly stepped out and sturdily planted herself in front of the yelling rabble. "Back!" she commanded, "don't you dare touch him—he's for the union.", Walter almost stopped in amazement—it was Edith Whitman! A stone that whizzed dangerously close to his head brought him to his senses and promptly caused him to resume his hurried pace. "She's a brick!" he muttered as a backward glance showed the crowd of boys dispersing in confusion, XIII. O Riven him, Almost UNNOticed, the daylight failed, and Walter Snt the Ig; t 2TOSe to lioh €n someone Steppe | lightly on the front Porch and the bel] efore Opening the door, he Called Cautiously, "Who's there p" "Tt's Edith," the answer. His Pulse quicke ed at the Sound of her Voice - Topped in to rave you this Mormon' 1 you let me take some S0," she @ Plained hesitating alter's eyes flashed Or a mo €nt—he took the tract With Out a word, Was plain Mbarrasg d here's your mother?" she inquired, "Ncertainly.; wn," was the Somewhat short answer, "Shall if? E's lying do I calf her >" h, no; [ Was just Wondering how she Was. If you don't mind, PI Sit down and rest for a moment, as J hurrieq a little &reat! 11] ave to confess that my legs Were shaking under me for some of the Tocks were coming Pretty close, 4 ' M4 n' Ure a brick? "That's all right, Walter 3 I didn't want to see you get hurt, Ww fo) i Was he hot color Mounted her Cheeks, and her lashes dropped, "T Couldn't bear to see any of my friends stoned," she answered 'By telling me how much paper the mil] is Making } she Teplied fensely, leaning forward and looking him Square in face. OUT OF THE WORLD. 645 For a few moments he thought earnestly, swaying between duty and— "Edith, I cannot! Much as I sympathize with the union, I cannot betray my trust." "But Walter, they never made you promise not to tell, did they?" "No; but I take it that that is understood. I have always made it a rule to work for the interests of my employer and to treat his business affairs as strictly confidential." "But Walter, just think: these men have been working for starvation wages—most of them," she reasoned earnestly. "Just think of it—$1.08 a day for man with a family!" "Oh!" she exclaimed sadly, "I have just come from calling on the Burnham's across from us—you know them they have six children. Walter, a rag man wouldn't give a quarter for the clothes they wear! Before I knocked at the door I heard their little girl—three years old—crying, 'I want some milk!' And I heard her mother say, "There ain't any, Frances.' "I had brought a quart of milk from home with me, and some bread, and you ought to have seen those children eat—and how happy it made me, too! Their mother wouldn't touch a bite, although I could see she was hungry. I went out and got some potatoes for her to cook. It took nearly the last cent I had saved, and I don't know how I'm going to be able to help any one any more," the tears welling in her eyes: It was a revelation to him to visualize this aspect of her beautiful character. "Walter, please tell me how much paper they are making," she begged. "You haven't confirmed the company's statement as to normal production, so I know they are not telling the truth. If you—have any regard for my friendship, you'll tell," she sobbed, "and for the sake of those innocent children!" Woman's tears have ever moved man—especially those of the woman he loved—and Walter was no exception. Tenderly he soothed, "Don't cry, Edith; I'll tell you: the mill is making about one half the normal production," he told tremulously. "How is it they ship so many cars, then?" she asked, looking at him thankfully between her tears. "Simply because each car is only about half full." "What kind of men have they got?" "Some of the men are skilled and try to keep up a high standard; but most of them are an ignorant rabble and do more harm than good. Breakdowns are the rule, and from what I heard the superintendent say the other day, the paper will hardly stand the strain of the printing machines. "Say—what was it you said—if I—?" he teased, abruptly 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. changing the subject, and with dancing eyes slyly reaching for her soft, white hand. "My goodness! There's the clock striking nine," she exclaimed, jumping to her feet. "Now, Mr. Sampson," holding up her finger in mock solemnity, "I've cut your locks, and if you're not careful and don't stop squeezing my hand so hard, I'll tell the Philistines!" she proclaimed gaily. A stiffening of resistance soon became apparent among the striking mill workers, Mr. Whitman stating in a meeting of the union the true conditions that obtained at the plant—refusing, however, to divulge the source of his information. Militant tactics gave way to a calm assurance that the strike would be won, and a greater effort than ever was made to gain full public sympathy. It was common talk that the small stockholders of the paper company were demanding a settlement, and public opinion finally forced its way into the offices of the State Labor Commission, who, after several hearings, granted the men an increase of five per cent as against the ten per cent demanded. The commission had no power to enforce its ruling, but the company gave heed to its stockholders, and the ever growing clamor from the public that the strike be settled and announced that it would accept the rulings of the Commission, A great change immediately took place at the mill. Soldiers were called home and the private guards released. The strikebreakers, having served their purpose, were, despite promises to the contrary, literally kicked out by the company; and, lest they linger about the community, the strikers sent in an additional "kick" for good measure. To complete the reconciliation, the company financed a picnic for the men in a nearby grove and industrial relations were fully restored. (To be concluded)

GILES CANTATA
The recent production by Professor Henry Giles of his Cantata, "Plan of Salvation,' was a deserved tribute and triumph for the veteran musician and composer. The rendition was fine, soloists were in good voice, and the theme itself was lofty and inspiring. We recommend our Relief Society Choirs to secure copies of his various original choruses which can be obtained by addressing Professor Giles, 222 Third Ave., Salt Lake City. The performance was given in the Tabernacle Sunday afternoon, under the auspices of the Genealogical Society of Utah, in memory of the visit of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith September 21, 1823.

Notes from the Field
By Amy B. Lyman

Alberta Stake. A very interesting survey was recently made in the Alberta stake to determine how extensively the Word of Wisdom is being kept. The following figures have just, reached this office: 74.2 per cent of the men of the stake are non-users of tobacco; 16.8 per cent use tobacco habitually, and 9 per cent only occasionally, making a total of 25.8 per cent tobacco users. Tea and coffee are used as follows: of the males, 13.7 per cent habitually use tea, 15.6 per cent use tea only occasionally; 9.1 per cent use coffee habitually, and 17.1 per cent use coffee only occasionally. Of the females, 9.5 per cent use tea habitually, and 11.4 per cent use tea only occasionally; 4.6 per cent use coffee habitually; and 9.6 per cent use coffee only occasionally. Of those who indulge in these stimulants, 92.9 per cent of them began under twenty years of age, and 85 per cent of this number, because of environment. Of those who use stimulants, 92.4 per cent desire to quit; 69.3 per cent of all those in the stake keep the Word of Wisdom, while 98 per cent of the Relief Society stake and ward officers and teachers keep the Word of Wisdom. The best record made in any ward was 89 per cent strict observers of the Word of Wisdom. The lowest record was the ward which could show only 40 per cent observers of the Word of Wisdom.

South Sevier Stake.: During the stake conference, the Relief Society of the stake put on a pageant, "A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood" which was outlined in the March Magazine. All the wards in the stake joined together, each being assigned an episode. Monroe wards were given the prologue and the last part of the first episode. They showed what darkness was upon the people a century ago, and how the spirits of evil were triumphant. The dance of the demons was very effective. It was taught by a little blind girl of Monroe who had specialized in dancing. The first part of the first episode was given to the Marysvale Ward, the tableaus that were presented of the Church and Relief Society organizations were especially good, and the costumes true to the period. A very interesting scene was that of the pioneers crossing the plains and their arrival in Utah, carried out by the Joseph and Sevier wards. A scene, painted by Mr. B. Y. Baird, portraying the valley as Brigham Young saw it when he raised on 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. his elbow and announced "This is the place," made a strong impression on the minds of the audience. The old time quadrilles and the tableau of Eliza R. Snow and her administration were also such as to merit praise. The third episode was given to the Annabella ward, Utah 1880-1890, representing Zina D. Young and her work, the silk industry. This ward was very fortunate in having some silk worm cocoons, a spinning wheel and loom that were used in the manufacture of silk in early days. In the fourth episode the Central ward illustrated the temple work. The Elsinore ward took the remainder of the episodes, the tableau of the Relief Society wheat saving, the gleaners, dance of the harvesters, peace, and ratification of woman suffrage, 1920. A flag drill was also very successfully executed. The singing and the instrumental music were especially appropriate to the occasion. Five hundred people attended the performance and the door receipts amounted to $122.65. Mr. J. D. Montagne and Mrs. Matilda B. Ross arranged and directed the entertainment. They were assisted by Mrs. Nina Hansen, who was the pageant reader.

Pioneer Stake. The women of Garfield have for some time been in charge of all relief work in the community. The Woman's Club, the Utah Copper Company, the Smelter Relief Company, Utah Copper Dancing Club, and Bingham and Garfield Boarding House all turned their relief funds over to the president of the Relief Society to use for those in need. These organizations felt that the Relief Society was better able to take care of the situation than any one of the others. Members of all these groups are giving personal assistance to the women of the Relief Society in the welfare work. A survey was first made of the town in an effort to ascertain the true condition, and the work was based upon the results of the survey.

Blaine Stake. President Laura J. Adamson, her counselors, secretary and one board member, have just completed a very interesting visit to nine of the Relief Society organizations in the Blaine stake. Nine days were required to make the trip, and a distance of 600 miles traveled without one minute's car trouble. They were privileged to see each organization in regular session, and to hold an officers' meeting besides. At the officers' meeting, each stake officer presented a definite line of work which made for a systematic, profitable meeting. The ward welcomed the officers and extended to them the most hospitable entertainment. The stake officers were delighted to partake of the splendid spirit of love, enthusiasm and cooperation manifested in every organization. Especially were they pleased to find such an excellent enrollment and attendance of young mothers, who showed keen interest in the Relief Society work. The enlistment committee in many of the organizations is doing excellent work in getting the young mothers into the Relief Society, by cooperating with the Bee Hive Girls and providing means for the caring of the children while the mothers attend meetings. In some wards the teachers had made their 100 per cent visits. In each of these wards, the officer who has charge of the teachers' work is very active. The stake and all have been visited at their regular meetings except one ward, and this will soon be visited. It is sixty-five miles away. The splendid spirit of unity and the activity of the wards in their summer activities have been much enjoyed by the members of the Jerome Relief Society of Blaine Stake. A party was planned for June in the form of a rose festival. The ward house was cleaned and tastefully decorated with pink roses and potted plants. Garlands of roses hung from the ceiling making a beautiful effect. A tiny pink rose bud together with the name was pinned on each of the members as they entered. After a well arranged program a social half hour and refreshments were enjoyed. Several members were added to the roll and the five visiting stake board members considered they had been royally entertained. A July picnic was all that one could desire. The invitations read as follows: "We're having a picnic on Tuesday at ten, We want all the members, Bee-Hive girls and men, Fun depends on your being there, So please come all and each do your share. Now do not forget your spoon, fork and plate, 'Twould be sad indeed if you came too late." Jerome members say societies which have not invited the Mutual girls to assist in socials and picnics have missed a great deal.

Portneuf Stake. Previous to the beginning of the group conventions this fall, President George G. Hyde and Counselors, of Portneuf Stake, issued a printed circular letter announcing in detail the convention to be held in Portneuf stake. The circular contained an explanation of the object of the convention, the arrangement of meetings, etc., and urged all stake and ward officers to be in attendance.

Curlew Stake. The Curlew stake reports a very satisfactory group convention, all wards being represented but one. There was a good attendance of stake and ward officers and two members of the High Council attended all Relief Society sessions.

Boise Stake. At the beginning of the year the Boise stake outlined some of the things contemplated for the social service department as follows: Appointment of social service workers, one in each ward. Duties of these workers were to familiarize themselves with laws of city, county and state; get aid of extension workers or any teacher of cooking, whenever possible, in holding demonstration classes on cooking and serving of foods; cooperate with other social service workers or board of health in city, county and state in anything for the uplift of humanity; get these city, county and state workers to come into society and give lectures on existing conditions and means of remedying them; encourage the keeping of homes in sanitary condition; encourage mothers to read more about the caring and rearing of their families; (books and government bulletins); report anything not in accordance with laws of city, county and state that would benefit society; report any defectives and incurables to proper authorities; report any children who are not attending school of compulsory age; aid in suppressing use of tobacco by working with individuals and reporting law breakers whether they be sellers or smokers (minors); encourage mothers to pay more attention to their families; report breakers of child labor laws.

Modern Health Crusade
With the object of preventing the spread of disease and helping to enforce sanitary and quarantine laws, a health committee of three—with social service class leader as chairman—was appointed in each Relief Society to cooperate with city and county health officials, this committee to assist local boards in providing for emergencies; to be ready to give aid to communities, families or individuals, if called upon by local officers, and expecting the help of the county officers in return in caring for own sick if necessary. These committees were required to familiarize themselves with the laws of the state, and city with conditions in their locality, by reading pamphlets published by the state and by keeping in touch with city health officials. All members of the Relief Society were asked to report to the local health office and to the ward committee anything they might see at any time detrimental to health in shops, meat markets, grocery stores, in street or in private yards or houses. The ward committee was asked to report all social service work back to the stake committee quarterly.

At the close of the summer we have the following very interesting report, showing a development of one phase of the work. All ward associations in the stake were requested to make a survey of the number of children under six years of age and to hold free clinics for the same not later than May 30, for the purpose of determining if they were under-weight or over-weight; whether there were any eye, ear, nose or throat trouble, or any other trouble that a good nurse could determine. It was felt that inasmuch as all school children are more or less looked after by school nurses, that it would be more important to get the ones under this age. The response from all the organizations was more than gratifying. In most of the wards they obtained the services of the best doctors, who willingly gave their services free of charge. There were over 150 children who were given a very good general examination and each mother was provided with a score card, giving the exact condition of each child and what treatment was needed. Then the follow up work which most of the associations are doing consists of public lectures by these physicians, dealing specifically with the troubles they found. For instance, in Boise, Drs, Handy and Anderson lectured in the church well filled with the priesthood and Relief Society members on "Diet and Sanitation" and "Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat," giving very valuable instruction to those present. Then, Dr. Handy, was instrumental in getting the osteopaths of this city to help him in the treatment of three of the babies who will receive treatment from these doctors until they are permanently cured. The mothers were very pleased over the results of the examinations, some declaring that they received more information from the clinic than they had received. From examinations which had cost them ten dollars. These local officers are certainly to be congratulated for this splendid work. The Weiser Relief Society in addition to the above work, has held special lectures and demonstrations along various lines such as "Care and Feeding of Infants" and "Home Canning," given at the High School by the Domestic Science teacher; also demonstrations in hat-making. In this latter, two of the members who had taken the course are teaching the others. Every one of Speaking of the Work done in Boise City by the ward association there, the local daily Paper commented as follows: Dr. Handy and Mrs. Caroline b War a successful clinic for the purpose of examining all children, especially those under school age, who do not have the privilege of the regular school medical examination, was held Monday, At this clinic Dr. Handy and Dr. D. Anderson gave over fifty children a thorough medical examination, and a complete record of any defects or troubles for reference, As follow. Connection with the examination, lectures will be given by prominent physicians so that officers of the Boise Relief Society had the cooperation and support of the city, county and state health officers and also the State Anti-Tuberculosis Society, in connection with the clinic held in Boise. The importance his ind attention the little folks receiving widespread attention and it is understood that other churches and some of the clubs are planning similar aid for children coming within their reach. All the societies of Boise Stake worked heroically for the Anti-tuberculosis and tobacco bills but were disappointed with what made in it, which made it not nearly so good. Idaho succeeded in retaining its Anti-Tuberculosis Office, which the legislature was determined to do away with, but could not get the appropriation for the sanitariums fought so hard for.

Morgan Stake—Reorganized
On July 24, at the Stake Priesthood Meeting, the Morgan Stake Relief Society was reorganized, Mrs. Maryette R. Walker, President; Mrs. May D. Francis, first counselor; Mrs. Sarah Giles, second counselor; Mrs. Selma Francis, secretary; Mrs. Mamie Steiner, treasurer. At the first union meeting, held on August 28, there was a good attendance of stake and ward officers. A general outline for carrying on Relief Society work was given as follows: Open. tk ho carry on the discussion, by Mrs. May D. Of testimony meetings, by Mrs. Sarah Giles, aid: Duties; and qualifications of teachers, by Mrs. Mamie Steiner, and: Purpose and benefit of work meetings with definite recommendations of the kind of work to be taken up, by Mrs. Selma Francis. A special drive is to be instituted in the interest of better attendance. A special prize of six Relief Society song books is offered to the society which secures the high Utah readers should be particularly interested in the first chapter which refers to a "on" miner had drj ted cutte early days, pen picture of this old-timer is evidently accurate, and yet the writer has the hi material with wo disrespect sensationalism. W, mend it

World Happenings
By James H. Anderson

Serbia and Albania opened a new war on September 26. Bosnia and Croatia began a movement for secession from Jugo-Slavia, in September. In the Prussian legislative assemblies at the present time there are 41 women and about 400 men. Earthquakes and floods in China, in September, claimed over 40,000 victims dead. In Italy, in September, warring factions caused the death of nearly 200 people. Earthquakes, continuing from September 29 to October 2, did considerable damage to property in Sevier county, Utah, but no lives were lost. Russia's famine area spreads as further facts became known, in September, and the most pitiful scenes are described by investigators there. Great Britain, as well as other nations, has troubles with unemployment, there being over 2,000,000 jobless men in the British Isles in September. Spanish troops in Morocco had several battles with the rebellious Moors, in September, in which the former had the advantage. Dr. S. Arai, head of the Japanese Soto sect, which has a membership of about 8;000,000 Soto Buddhists, visited Utah on September 17. In Texas, on September 9 and 10, over 200 people were drowned and $8,000,000 in property destroyed by floods caused by heavy rains. In India, the upheavals among the native population during September caused the British administration serious trouble. On September 30 there were in the United States 69 labor union strikes of considerable importance, and several more were added the following week. Senator Smoot's tax bill in the United States Senate was introduced on September 30, and met with much favor because of its simplicity and directness; but that may not be what is wanted. Mexico agreed, in September, to restore about 100,000 acres of land in that country to "Mormon" settlers who had been compelled to move therefrom. At Oppau, in the Rhine section of Germany a dye works explosion, in September, caused the death of nearly 2,000 persons and the injury of many thousand others. The Scandinavians in Utah decided, on September 4, to erect a monument to the memory of the late President A. H. Lund, for his services to that people. Dr. Geley, of Paris, France, the distinguished psychical investigator, announced, on September 3, that he had definitely determined that human spirits have bodies. The labor-day speech of Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of labor, received prominent recognition as a bid for a soviet government in the United States. Mrs. Anna di Maio, of Torre del Greco, a suburb of Naples, Italy, is the mother of 10 children, born within 5 years; she has just turned 30 years of age. First, was 1 baby, then twins, triplets, and quadruplets, in order—all living. Greece and Turkey continued at war east of Constantinople during September, the military advantage being with the Turks, but the forces of the latter were being decimated by disease rather than by fighting. The Zionist 12th international conference met at Carlshtad, Jugo-Slavia, September 1 to 15, with over 600 delegates present, and dealt with measures for the upbuilding of the Jews in Palestine. Senator Knute Nelson, of Minnesota, uttered a significant warning in the United States Senate on October 1, when he challenged the railway unions who were threatening to strike to go ahead, and the "American people would wipe them off the earth," France was disturbed in September by fears that Russia and Germany will join hands to the great injury of the French. Because of this, France does not look with favor upon land disarmament. Elder George A. Smith was named in September as general superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. Organizations of the "Mormon" Church, to succeed Anthony W. Ivins, who has become one of the Church presidency. Mefide Ferid Hanen, the beautiful wife of Ahmed Ferid Bey, in a public address in September, declared that, notwithstanding it had been abused greatly in Christendom, the Turkish harem had demonstrated clearly that home was the place best adapted to woman's nature, A railway merger, to put all the railway lines in the United States into 19 systems, has been recommended to the railway commission. This would seem to be a good scheme to tie up the transportation of the country in the event of strikes, G. C. Mazdon, a prominent merchant of Argentina, after a tour of the United States, declared, in September, that the "do as little as you can for your salary" sentiment in this country is due primarily to the excess of employment given to women. A considerable Socialist defection in New York occurred in September, by an influential section going over to the Third International, better known as "Reds," It is stated that 113,000 out of 118,000 Socialists thus transferred their allegiance, Episcopal ministers met in synod in Salt Lake City, Utah, during a week in September, and on the Sunday following visited many Latter-day Saint Sunday schools, to learn of the manner of conducting these and the methods of teachings the Sunday school children. See Isaiah 2. "Mormon" missionaries continue to be sent to Mexico to preach the gospel, and in September the Central American Federation adopted a provision for equal rights to all denominations there. This was opposed by the Catholics, who were outvoted, and Protestant evangelism will be extended. 657 Big labor unions in the United States agreed, in September, to postpone strikes calls until the spring of 1922. Meantime, there is much talk of a revolutionary movement at that time to change the form of government in the United States. See Ether 8:21-26. New York Presbyterians are making an effort to have declared unconstitutional all statutes forbidding the use of the Bibles in the public schools. They have a good foundation in the fact that the Bible is unreplaceable as history, is freely supplied with literary masterpieces, and is unsurpassed for its moral gems. General J. J. Pershing, (who commanded the American armies in France during the war) rebuked Samuel Gompers (head of the American Federation of Labor) in remarks after the latter's speech at a meeting in Washington, D. C., at the Lafayette-Marne celebration, in September, the general closing his address thus: "It seems to be about time for us to rise up and say that America shall be governed by American citizens, and not by organizations which have their own selfish purposes to serve." Ireland and the British government spent all September parleying over the difficulties there. One of the most prominent Protestant ministers in Great Britain, Dr. R. J. Campbell, vicar of Christ Church, Westminster, London, made the significant public announcement on September 30, that the Sinn Fein of Ireland never could become friendly to England, giving as his reason that "Roman clerical influence is too strong, and that influence aims at destroying England as the greatest Protestant power in the world."