		PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Switzerland has abolished capital punishment.
	"AT what time of day was Adam born?
A little before Eve."
	How to make money go far—Give it to
the foreign mission.
	MRS. Proctor will publish the autobiogra-
phy of her husband (Barry Cornwall) this 
year.
	THE reign of the chignon is over; its glory
has departed; its name is Ichabod—Harper's
Bazar.
	A DOLLAR store is a place where you can
get a twenty-five cent article you do not 
want.
	A FEMALE lawyer in Wyoming Territory
goes into court with her six children follow-
ing her.
	A man of large experience said his ac-
quaintances would fill a cathedral but a pul-
pit would hold his friends.
	"COME here and I'll lick the whole of
you," said an urchin to some sticks of pep-
permint in a confectioner's window.
	THE Booklyn Argus says the ancient time
instituted the Elizabeth ruff, while the
present age is rough on Elizabeth.
In the bright lexicon of feminine fashion
there is such a word as "faille." Spring
hasn't had too much balm as yet.
	A FRENCHMAN got exceedingly angry
with a waiter at an English hotel. "You
rascal!" exclaimed he, "I blow your nose
for you."
	WHAT is the difference between Noah's
ark and a Mississippi flat-boat:  One is
made of Gopher wood and the other made
to go for wood.
	A PHONOGRAPHER, taking down one of
Dr. Mary Walker's lectures, made the well-
known legend, "Honi soit qui mal y pense,"
read "Only see how Molly pants."
	IT is a good time for a political house-
cleaning this year. The State House needs
over-hauling. But, for efficient house-clean-
ing, the help of women is needed.
	THERE is not a proclamation of Napoleon
to his soldiers in which glory is not men-
tioned and duty forgotten; there is not an
order of Wellington to his troops in which
duty is not inculcated, nor one in which
glory is alluded to.
	Four ladies who passed the London University
examination and entered themselves in the "cham-
bers" for the study of law, are likely to obtain
profitable employment.  One of them whose
studies are completed has been engaged by a firm
of soliciters as a consulting counsel.

[Column 2]
	ZARE Thalburg daughter of the great pian-
ist will make her debut iu London this sea-
son in the opera.
	MRS. Mary Sellers and Mrs. Barbara Babb
of Milltown, Maine are probably the oldest
twins in New England being 85 years old.
	MRS. Ottendorfer of New York has given
$100,000 to establish a home  for aged and
infirm persons of the Evangelical Lutherian
denomination.
	MISS Emily Faithful has been lecturing
to large audiences at Barton-on Humber,
York and elsewhere in the north of Eng-
land.
	A Woman Suffrage meeting was held in the 
American Hall, Boston, May 8th, under the aus-
pices of the Dorchester Woman Suffrage Club.
Addresses were made by Mrs. Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell, on the "justice expediency
and necessity of Woman Suffrage."


