OUR CHILDREN.

	Thanks for the EXPONENT, that we as
parents can speak through its columns.
	In the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
page 160, Sec. 22, and par. 4, we read:
	"And again, inasmuch as parents have
children in Zion, or in any of her stakes
which are organized, that teach them not to
understand the doctrine of repentance," &c.
"the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
And they shall also teach their children to
pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
And the inhabitants of Zion shall also ob-
serve the Sabbath day to keep it holy."
	Now if these things are faithful and true,
as the Lord has said, and we have had over
forty years experience, with practice on
them, in what light must we as parents be
looked upon, whose children are running
the country over on the Sabbath day—whose
children are not taught to pray, or to walk
uprightly before the Lord according to the
instructions of the Lord? We have the
history of ancient Israel, written for our
example; see Gen. xviii chapter, 17, 18, 19
verses; here it is said that Abraham re-
ceived blessings and knowledge, because
the Lord knew that he would keep his com-
mandments, statutes and laws; and would
command his children and household after
him; also Gen., xxvi chapter, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
and 26 verses; here Isaac is blessed and has
promises made to him, and is told it is be-
cause of the faithfulness of his father Abra-
ham in keeping the charge of the Lord;
while those who kept not the Lord's com-
mands, their blessings were turned into
cursings. See Numbers, xiv chapter, from
the 24 to 45 verses inclusive; also First
Book of Samuel, iii. chapter, 11 to 14 verses
inclusive; also Jer., xxxv chapter, 12, 13,
14 verses; also Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants, 246 page, 6 and 7 par.; in this last
quotation F. G. Williams and S. Rigdon are
both held under condemnation because they
did not keep the commands of the Lord con-
cerning their children.
	How is it mothers? How is it fathers?
How have the children been educated? Have
they been restrained? Ye Elders of Israel,
high priests, seventies and elders, have yon
properly taught your sons, and placed before
them, the necessity of keeping the charge
of the Lord? Many of your sons have
been in the house of the Lord, have received
ordinations, with blessings and powers to
open the store-house of knowledge concern-
ing the eternities; and they can be seen by
the half dozen or more on the Sabbath day
desecrating their holy callings and making
themselves vile. Listen, Oh, ye Saints, re-
frain your sons from all their evil practices;
and do not pass lightly these things, as did
Eli, lest grievous sorrow come upon you.
Be warned!					ETA.


MISS Joanna Chandler, of London, Eng-
land, was one of the founders of the National
Hospital for the Paralyzed and Epileptic.
That institution was established by this
lady, her sister, and a  brother, some fifteen
years ago.  It now maintains 100 beds, and
an extensive out-patient department. The
brother is the only survivor of the three.


