WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FEMALE JOURNALISM.
	Extracts from a paper read in the "Sec-
ond Woman's Congress," by Mrs. Malloy,
connected with the press at Elkhart Indi-
ana. Woman is pre-eminently fitted for the
profession of journalism. There are hun-
dreds of women in America, who would be
a grand acquisition to the profession; aud I
am surprised that there are not more
choosing it. Newspaper work however
means business, and a lazy person cannot
be a successful editor. The person who en-
ters the journalistic work, expecting to find
it a plant that will thrive in a soil of in-
dolence, will be grandly disappointed. But
to the woman who comes to the work,
bringing all her talents, her heart and her
persistence, success is inevitable. Woman's
talents, her intuitions, her adaptability, as
well as her remarkable patience, are all in
her favor.
	The idea that women are not as thorough
in details as men are is an erroneous one;
let a woman educated as a reporter, walk be-
side the male reporter, aud she will see as
much again in a walk down street as he will,
and can draw just as largely upon her im-
agination. Girls employed in offices are
just as efficient as men, and much more re-
liable, for they never get on a "spree."
Women will purify newspaper literature,
dignify the type of journalism, of which so
much has been said, and written.
	No obscure or corrupting advertisements
will appear in their columns; and the effect
of such literature upon crime will be dimin-
ished.
	The successful country publisher, must
have fine executive, as well as financial abil-
ity; indomitable energy and perseverance-
large hope, suavity and benevolence: all
these requisite qualifications form element;
ary parts of woman's nature.
	The newspaper should be the family edu-
cator, and woman's tact, and woman't heart
is much needed in that line: we need more
heart in our journalism.
	If we were to judge of a city by its news,
papers, we should conclude that all affection-
feeling or even respect for the dead were
forgotten in the whizz and whirr of busi-
ness.
	There is just as much difference in jour-
nalists as there is in other folks; the true
journalist occupies a position much more
enviable in the public affections than the
physician. The world is full of hungry
hearts, and the journalist who meets their
demand, will never lack for work to do.
Journalists, like poets, "are born, not made."
[Column 2]
	There are many women in American, who
possess this faculty to a happy extent; there
are few perhaps, who could evince such
striking originality as Mrs. Swissholm, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Soule, Mrs.
Livermore, or Mrs. Julia Ward Howe; so
striking, that every newspaper in the coun-
try is glad to copy their original utterances.
But notwithstanding all this, many a woman
can make herself necessary in a community
as a journalist.
	We can't all be great women or men, but
we can dignify the humbler places, by do-
ing our work well.
	I do not believe that every woman could
be a successful journalist, but that many a
fine journalist is at the present time, pining
in milliner and dress-making shops, and
over the wash-tubs and ironing-boards. I
have tried all these branches, and was a
miserable failure in them all; but in journal-
ism I have succeeded, at least, pecuniarily;
this work never seemed a burden to me,
while the others were too grievous to be
borne. There is less opposition to encoun-
ter in this business, than in any other of the
professions so largely occupied by men. The
men in this profession are usually the large-
hearted, most liberal, unselfish and charita-
ble men in the world.
	In newspaper life you move with the world.
We need more journals to work for the de-
velopment of our resources, and for reforms.
Woman has hungered and thirsted for a
larger field of action, until it is late in the
afternoon of the nineteenth century. It is
vain to wait for man's hand to open the
door, and press the sweet chalice to your
lips; she who would be free must herself
strike the blow. And with a few hundred
women journalists in this country, ready to
strike for the right—I would be willing to
risk the elevation, prosperity, happiness and
final emancipation of American women;
emancipation from all folly, yea, in the
broadest sense of the word.


