HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Cup Cake.—One coffee-cup butter, two no. sugar,
three do. flour, one do. sweet milk, three teaspoon-
fuls baking powder, six eggs leaving out the yelks.
Flavor to suit.
	Corn Meal Pudding.—One pint boiling milk
with one pint meal stirred in; one pint cold milk,
two eggs, one half-cup sugar; salt and spice; bake
two hours and a half.
	Chocolate Custard.—Four tablespoonfuls of
grated chocolate one half-pint water, let it boil ten
minutes, pour in three pints of custard made in
the usual way: it is a very nice dessert.
	To Prevent Tin Rusting.—Rub fresh lard over
every part of the dish, put it into a hot oven and
heat thoroughly.  Tin ware thus treated. may, it
is said be used and remain bright indefinitely.
	Corn Starch Cake.—The whites of two eggs
well beaten, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one of
corn-starch, one and a half cup sweet milk, one
half-cup thick cream, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder.
	Chicken Cheese.—An excellent [---]cling lunch:
boil the chickens tender, take out all the bones,
chop fine, season with salt, pepper and butter, add
enough of the liquor in which they were boiled to
make them moist—mold in any shape you choose
and when cold cut in slices.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Linen, cotton and woolen next the
skin.—Linen absorbs too much moisture,
which when evaporating cools it. Cotton
for summer, and woolen for winter is better.
Woolen will not absorb much moisture, and
consequently keeps the body an equal tem-
perature.  But the woolen should be soft,
fine and even as possible.  There are some
skins so sensitive as not to be able to toler-
ate woolen at all.  For such persons knit
cotton under-clothing is the best substitute.
	About beds.—Beds that last a long time
and cannot be cleaned and purified are ob-
jectionable. Feather beds for the aged have
their advantages, but when used should be
sunned often, and purified frequently. For
others a tolerably hard bed is the best, and
one which will allow the air to circulate
freely through it, and permit a thorough
cleansing.  Graham the vegetarian, used,
when keeping school to sleep on the benches
to harden himself.
	THE TEETH.—The tooth brush should be
moderately soft and have rounded edges
both of bristles and handle; brushing should

[Column 2]
never exceed from ten to twenty sec-
onds; the water should not be so cold as to
cause uneasiness to the teeth; the inner
surface of the teeth should be even more
carefully done than the outer; great caution
should be taken in regard to brushing the
gums from off the teeth.  Dr. Flagg says
tooth powders containing insoluble ingredi-
ents such as ground barks and especially
pulverized charcoal do not prevent decay of
the teeth, and are very injurious by their
insinnation under the margin of the gums
Soap as an adjunct in cleaning the teeth, has
proved very efficacious in preventing decay.
Of late years some of the most noted anti-
septics, such as creosote, carbolic acid etc;
have been used; conjoined to some of the
saponaceous compounds have wrought won-
ders in the retardation and arrestation of
caries. Together with these or any soaps,
it is advisable to use some frictional pow-
der, gentle or harsher according to require-
ments.  Precipitated chalk will sometimes
serve to prevent the yellowish discoloration
which is apt to accompany the use of soap
alone; but in some instances it is necessary
to use powdered cuttlefish bone or finely pul-
verized (levigated) pumice stone.  Some-
times when an acid condition of the mouth
is found to harm the teeth a grain or two
of carbonate of soda used in the water for
brushing the teeth, or lime water, made by
pulverizing a piece of lime the size of a
walnut and putting it into a pint bottle of
water, shake and allow it to settle, pour off
the first water, refill and it is fit for use.
	SHALL WOMEN STAND! OR SIT?—The 
Women's Physiological Society of Brooklyn,
and also a large number of the noble wo-
men in New York, are discussing the prac-
tice of compelling women to stand all day as
clerks and teachers, without the privilege
of sitting under the penalty, of at least a
reprimand.  There are physiological reasons
why women should not do it.  Added to
this, the unnatural way of supporting the
clothes from the waist, instead of making
the shoulders carry their weight, drags
down the whole muscular structure.  After
a time the muscles lose their power to con-
tract, all the organs drop a little out of
place. It is this that gives women the
tired, "all-gone" sensations so many are try-
ing to remedy.  Each clerk should have a
seat made to turn under the counter so she
could sit when not employed, and the girls
and coming generations would be great
gainers.  Let all humane people help agi-
tate this subject.


