		FOR MEN TO READ

	Do women ever think how much time they spend
in picking up and putting away? Of course we do
not mean to intimate that it is wasted. or that all
this labor is done unnecessarily.  Women have
a vast amount of such work to perform, and few
men realize its extent or its necessity until some ac-
cident or circumstance brings it home to them.
A married man said once, that he never realized
the amount of work done in bringing things out
and putting them away, until he happened to sit
idly, watching the operation of setting the table
—"getting tea," as it was called at a neighbor's 
house, washing the dishes and clearing them away.
It struck him, for the first time how much real
labor had to be done in lifting and carrying between
table and pantry and he determined to lessen such
labor in his house as much as possible, by con-
structing a kitchen in his house with every facility
and convenience. He thought, with a sort of cou-


sternation, if one "tea" requires that amount of
labor, what must the work of a house for a life-
time amount to? A very pretty problem, which
we should like to have answered.
	It is a fact, however, that "putting things away"
becomes a sort of mania, with some neat house-
wives; and not only gives them a vast amount of 
trouble, but sours their temper, and is a source of
annoyance to every member of the family.  From
a habit probably of being upon the same spot all
the time, eternally seeing and doing the same
things, it becomes a sort of mania, and in fact, a
symptom of disease.  We think a good plan, in
such a case, would be, for the husband to insist on
his wife taking a journey, making a visit home, or
spending a couple of weeks at a watering place.
The change of scene, the breaking up of the mon-
otony of her life would do her a world of good.
Her ideas would become enlarged; her thoughts
travel out of their accustomed routine, and when
she returned she would take up life less as a bur-
den, and more as a basket of flowers, from which
it is possible to extract beauty and fragrance.
								R. N. Y.


