EXPERIENCE BRINGS KNOWLEDGE

	I have long desired to bear my testimony to
my beloved sisters through the EXPONENT,
having had a long experience in the church and
kingdom of God. It is now forty-four years
and a half since I embraced the everlasting
Gospel; during that time I have witnessed
many striking examples of God's goodness and
care manifested towards His people.
	If I did not speak in defense of the truth of
the principles revealed to Joseph the Prophet,
I should feel under condemnation.
	I know and I can bear a solemn witness that
I have heard the voice of the Lord through Jo-
seph, giving promise to all that endure unto
the end, and also that he would own none but
the tried ones.
	How terrible for any to fall away, after re-
ceiving the truth! but the laws of God are pure
and holy, and cannot be trifled with. No one
must undertake to mix them with Spiritual-
ism, it will not answer to trifle with that and
expect to be justified in the sight of God, and
retain sufficient of His Spirit to abide in the
faith.
	Timothy said, "Take heed that you be not
deceived for many shall say 'I am Christ,' and
deceive many." I have seen many strong and
powerful in this Gospel who have fallen away
and even denied our blessed Savior; where then
can they turn for atonement and salvation?
	To my sisters, and especially to the young, I
would say, shun infidelity as you would a serpent
lest it charm and beguile and then destroy you.
	And one thing more before I close. The or-
der of Celestial Marriage, revealed through
the Prophet Joseph to this people, and taught
by himself to my husband and to me, I bear
you a solemn witness, is true. It was confirmed to
us by vision, and the glory and exaltation which
will be received through this ordinance sur-
passes all mortal powers of comprehension. I
have never seen any one who turned from it,
or against it prosper; if they had light, it has
been turned to darkness; I know the sealing
power and blessing is with this people, and the
keys of this ministry are now upon the earth.
My young sisters I have been intimately ac-
quainted with this doctrine ever since its pro-
mulgation, have lived in it, and expect to
throughout eternity. I was the very first moth-
er who gave her daughter in that sacred ordi-
nance in this generation; and I fully realized
what I was doing. A few others had acted up-
on their own responsibility. but she was given
by father and mother with our full and free
consent. Many of the promises then pro-
nounced by Joseph the prophet upon my head
have since been fulfilled.
	Humility and meekness, my sisters, will pre-
pare us all to ask in faith for the things we
need and to receive the testimony of Jesus, also
that portion of His Holy Spirit which is nec-
essary to guide us into all truth and assist us to
overcome all things. If I continue to revive

[Column 2]
through faith and the prayers of my sisters, I
will bear another testimony at a future time
through these columns.
	O how I rejoice in the work of my sisters; my
prayers and testimony are all I can give you; I
am weak and feeble in body, but strong and
steadfast in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant. God bless my sisters in establishing the
Home Industries! He has called you to help in
this work, it is going to succeed; everything
you do in it, every effort you make, pray God
to bless; no matter how trifling a thing it is,
and you will always feel the promptings of the
Holy Spirit to influence you in the right di-
rection.
	I can see the prophecies of Joseph upon the
head of Sister Eliza R. Snow are being fulfilled
daily. She stands at the head of a great mis-
sion (I allude now more particularly to the
Home Industries). May God give her great
wisdom to lead out in this immense labor, and
may we all follow in the true channel, is my
earnest prayer for each mother in Israel and
daughter in Zion; and I bless you all in the
name of Jesus.
		Your Sister,
