IS THERE MONEY IN IT?

	Those who ask this question; are usually
practical people, who always see everything in
a proper light, and never suffer their imagina-
tion to rule, but make it subordinate to reason,
and their pre-conceived ideas, and strong pow-
ers of judgment; these are the people who get
on in the world, who attain social eminence,
and make themselves popular.
	They bring all their powers to this culminat-
ing point; they strike boldly for a certain fig-
ure; and every faculty they possess is trained,
to serve the one great aim and object they are
in pursuit of, the acquirement of wealth; facts
with them are substantial things; foundations
upon which to build their positive schemes;
relatively they are dollars and cents; positive-
ness is one of their elementary essentials; and
they have no use for any adjuncts, except such
as form secure stepping stones towards reach-
ing the pinnacle of power; that power, influ-
ence and position which money will command.
	They check and smother every generous im-
pulse to which they may be prompted by inci-
dental circumstances; romance must not creep
unwarily into their hearts, they shut them-
selves so closely in their narrow channel of
thought and feeling, that they almost distrust
those who prefer anything else before money.
	Even Spring, in its glowing, blushing beau-
ty, has no charm for them, save the general
brightening up of business, and the consequent
increase, or influx in the money market; the
songs of birds, the merry hum of bees, the
magnificant display of Nature's works in this
poetic season of the year, are all lost upon
them, because really, they have no time for
such trifling considerations; in fact it is all very
real and commonplace. Buds and blossoms
simply foretell the coming fruit, and that
will be marketable with a relative value in dol-
lars and cents; the pleasure derived from these
trifling sources is all moonshine and nonsense,
very well for people who have nothing better
or more engrossing to occupy their attention;
but their investment is not in beauty, art, or
science, but in solid and reliable stock. If they
should linger by the way, to admire the beauti-
ful, or worship the divine, some one of their
competitors in this rapid and all-absorbing
chase might surpass them.
	They concentrate all their available forces on
the making of a certain point. If they ever
reach this earthly fruition of their ardent
hopes, then they intend to sit down and rest
and also to reflect. Would it not be better to
be wise and take in some good, full, exhilarat-
ing draughts of happiness as we go along, in-
stead of waiting worn and exhausted to reach


the end of the road, too much enfeebled at last
to relish with a true zest, the rich blessings of
life's earlier years? Passing by that which, in
our days of poverty, might have been a solace
and comfort, and yearning only for such things
as are left for wealth to command; how often
these prove only sticks and straws, and we
with powers and energies wasted, without serv-
ing any particular purpose, or accomplishing
any real permanent good, must sink into ob-
livion, and leave the hoards of accumulated
property for the next generation to dispose of,
enjoy, or squander.
								B. B.
	May 10th, 1871.


