WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DIVERSIONS.
	GIRLS' rights—kisses.
	GIRLS' lefts—old bachelors.
	PLAYED out—a retired actor.
	A RARE flower—the pink of politeness.
	A CLEAR case—an empty dry goods box.
	ALTHOUGH a lady's age is undeniably her
own, she does not own it.
	"TOM, what in the world put matrimony
in your head?" "Well, the fact is I was
getting short of shirts."
	AN editor who received a letter in which
weather was spelt "wethur," says it was the 
worst spell of weather he had ever seen.
	AN Augusta school-ma'am woke up a
bookseller at four o'clock, the other morn-
ing, to get a key to an arithmetic."
	A BOOKLYN sewing-society fines any
member who talks scandal, $1 for each of-
fense; only the wealthy are able to attend.
	A LITTLE girl, upon her return from a 
children's party, being asked if she had a 
good time, replied, "Yes, but there wasn't
much boys there."
	A GENTLEMAN, on presenting a lace col-
lar to his adored one, said, carefully: "Do
not let any one else rumple it." "No,
dear," she replied, "I'll take it off."
ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad spell-
ing, but John Randolph defended him by
declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell  more ways than one."
	SHERIDAN, at a public dinner, was unex-
pectedly called upon to say grace, when he
acquitted himself as follows: "What? No
clergyman present? Thank God for all things."
"THAT clock, stranger," said a Michigan
farmer, "was the best kind of a clock up to
six months ago, when my daughter began
to have beaus, and now the blamed thing is
always two hours slow."
	"J. Gray—Pack with my box five dozen
quills." There is nothing remarkable about
this sentence, only that it is nearly as short
as one can be constructed and yet contains
the whole alphabet.
	THE celebrated Chesterfield is said to have
died with a witticism on his lips. When
told that he was dying by inches, he thanked
heaven that he was not so tall by a foot and
a half, as Sir Thomas Robinson.
	DEVOUT mother (to young lady who is
burning up love-letters on Sunday)—"What
are you doing there, my dear?  Are you
burning incense?"  Young lady—"O, no,
ma; I am only burning nonsense."
	A MODERN philosopher thinks it is a mis-
take to suppose women have stronger at-
tachments than men.  A man is often at-
tached to an old hat; but he asks, "Who
ever heard of a woman being attached to
an old bonnet."
	A GIRL screamed in a lecture audience in
Lafayette, Oregon.  Then all the other girls
screamed.  General consternation ensued,
and a rush for the doors.  People were
bruised, clothes torn, and the room at length
emptied.  The first screamer had seen a
rat.
	A GENTLEMAN entered a bachelor's rooms
and looking around, said: "Very snug—
rather too snug; but I suppose they are
large enough for a bachelor." "Yes," said
the bachelor; "but I suppose if I had had a 
better half, I might have had better quar-
ters."

[Column 2]
	A RED HAIRED lady, who was ambitious
of literary distinction, found but a poor sale
for her book.  A gentleman, in speaking of
her disappointment, said: "Her hair is red
(read) if her book is not." An auditor, in
attempting to relate the joke elsewhere,
said: "She has red hair if her book hasn't"
	A DOCTOR lately informed his friends, in
a large company, that he had been eight
days in the country.  "Yes," says one of
the party; "it has been announced in the
newspaper." "Ah!" said the doctor, stretch-
ing his neck importantly; "pray in what
terms?" "Well, as well as I can remember,
in the following: "There were last week
seventy-seven deaths less than the week be-
fore.'


[Column 1]
