WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SPRINGVILLE March 3rd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The influence of woman in society, can-
not be measured. To her is committed the
great and important trust of guiding the
young and imparting pure and holy impul-
ses to the infantile and tender mind. Who
can estimate her power in this direction, as
the custodian, (If I may be allowed so to
express myself) of the first thoughts that
roll through the mind of the embryo, or un-
developed man? What consequences hang
on the direction which that mind receives
from her!
	The mother, who is true to this precious
trust, will mildly, but firmly correct all that
she sees wrong, before it has been allowed
to become a fixed habit of the child. Es-
pecially, should she insist on the practice of
strict honesty, and should it bring home
strange toys, or other property, it should
be closely questioned as to how it came in-


to possession of them, and should the slight
est doubts be entertained of the child's
honesty too much labor and care cannot be
exercised to find the owner, restore the
property, if unjustly taken, and to make the
strongest impressions upon the mind of the
child of the evil of such a course, carefully
pointing out the law of God, against such
sins, the wrong which the child sustains
that has been unjustly deprived of its prop-
erty, and the future consequences of such
conduct.  In this way where early tenden-
cies to dishonesty exist they may be affec-
tionately checked, and a just regard to the
rights of others permanently established.
Reverence to God and superiors should be
early instilled.  How many children (shall
it be said in the church) yes truly, are al-
lowed to grow up without religious train-
ing; who are never taught to pray, to cast
an upward eye to Him, to whom they owe
life and all its blessings.  Such children of-
ten become men who have not the fear of
God before their eyes, to whom prayer is
irksome, rather than a pleasant duty, and
to whom the song of praise is an unwel-
come sound, who treat the worship of God
irreverently, and ridicule those who serve
him devoutly, who say sneeringly of such,
"Oh he is religious" making use of the ex-
pression as though they consider it adds to 
their manhood.  Thus, those who worship
God devoutly are called by them, fanatics,
and appear simple in their eyes.  No won-
der, then, that so many young people the
sons of parents who have been in the
church for a number of years, are becom-
ing infidel to the work of the Latter days,
as this condition is traceable in a great de-
gree to the neglect of early religious train-
ing.  Sisters, let us awake to our responsi-
bilities.  Let us prize, more than ever these
priceless gems of intelligence.  Let us de-
vote our lives to their improvement and cul-
ture, that in the never-ending future they
may be as stars in our unfading crown,
whose lustre shall add joy and gladness to
us for ever and ever.  Your sister in the
Gospel,
