WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		STRONG MINDED WOMEN.
			ANOTHER VERSION.
	The following suggestions have been
drawn out by reading in the last issue of
Woman's Exponent, May 1st, an article
from a St. George correspondent, entitled
"Strong Minded Women."
	According to my idea of things, it is
creditable for any of the sisters to express
their views in a frank and quiet manner
through the EXPONENT. Though even this
is in contrariety to the old rule by which
woman has so long been taught that to
avoid over-stepping the bounds of propriety
she should keep in the back ground, where
she might possibly be seen but not heard.
But we are growing out of these stiff nar-
row ways; thanks to the precious light
which has beamed upon our understand-
ings.
	And now, most respectfully would I sug-
gest to those who hold such views, as are
expressed by the writer above mentioned,
in regard to the position of men and wo-
men, that it is always wise to consider both
sides of a question, before giving free range
to the imagination.
	I cannot help wondering why the term
"strong minded women," should be so ob-
jectionable, so abhorrent in its nature, as to
appall even the most timid and sensitive;
now that the truth—the great astounding
truth—that woman is positively possessed
of a mind as susceptible as that of man,
is dawning upon the world. To me it would
be a matter much more lamentable, to be
considered one of a weak mind or intellect,
than to be regarded as a "strong minded,"
energetic, persevering woman, who might
accomplish something worthy of note, even
if left to herself, independent of a man to
appear always "ahead of" her, to "lead"
that she might "follow," to "dictate" that
she might "obey!"
	Most men have affairs enough of their 
own to engross their attention, without
spending time to direct women in theirs.
If they can so much as listen to details con-
cerning the latter, and give counsel upon
the more important points, I think it is a
great thing.
	I believe I am fully prepared to substan-
tiate the assertion, that in well regulated
and wisely conducted families, there is very
little of the ruling power manifested, ex-
cept in each governing self.
	That there are women in existance who
undertake to "play the lord," to "rule their
husbands, their households, and as far as
possible every one around them," is a pain-
ful fact.  But why abuse the appellation
"strong minded," by applying it to such a
creature? She is simply a shrew. I have
known one such myself, and although she
might be correctly termed shrewd and cun-
ning, yet I do think she was one of the
most ignorant women I ever knew. She
"treated her husband as though he were in-
deed a child," and a very inferior child at
that. She was "masculine in her manner,"
and in physical strength too—much more
so than her husband. And he, I always be-
lieved, was afraid of her. Not that she was
"strong minded," but because of her pow-
erful arm, her untutored tongue and her
superior ability in using them. I do not
suppose any one ever thought of accusing
her of being "strong minded."
	But I know another style of woman, a
real lady; who considers it an honor to go
to the polls and vote, having informed her-
self in relation to the cause she is to 
strengthen by the power she holds, and us-
ing her right of balloting accordingly. Of
[Column 2]
course she belongs to the circle of "strong
minded" women in Utah. That is, she be-
lieves in women knowing something for
themselves, and acting at times from their
own responsibilities. As a wife, she is one
of the most faithful, affectionate and oblig-
ing that could possibly exist. Her wise
and noble husband (for she was too "strong
minded" to yield her womanhood to any
other type of man,) has but to request that
she comply with his wishes in matters of 
mutual interest, whether weighty or other-
wise, and both are satisfied. She has no
need to "obey," for she has sufficient
strength of mind to control her own will,
submitting it to his where their opinions
differ. But they generally see and under-
stand things alike; for husband and wife
both live near the Lord, on whom they rely
for wisdom, and it is given according to
their needs. They counsel together and fre-
quently the husband acknowledges the cor-
rect opinions of his wife, or compliments
her for bringing to light a bright idea.
	"Husbands living their religion and mag-
nifying the Priesthood," I cannot think
would desire to "dictate," or feel that their 
wives must "obey."
	True there are men who consider it their
right to command, and even to enforce obe-
dience from their wives, where their wishes
are not willingly complied with. But such,
I do not believe are good Latter-day Saints
or that their ways are approved of by God.
I hope that "strong minded" women, ac-
cording to my version, never under any
circumstances, get befooled into marrying
men of this sort. But I should think it
only fair for all such to be coupled with the 
strong handed, loud tongued women, who
would certainly prove their equals.
	It is always weak minded people who will
infringe upon the rights of others. They
must be weak in some points at least, or
they would better comprehend the designs
of their creation and existence here. Let
those court the society of the weak and
feeble minded who will; but for my friends,
my associates, and particularly for family
connections, give me strong, true minds all
the time.						INEZ.


