SPLINTERS.
		GENERAL.
	Dr. Linderman. director of the mint, has
been assigned by President Grant, to invcs-
tigate Mississippi Valley for the most suita-
ble location for a mint......The sheriff of
New York city has issued attachments against
the property of Tweed.....Mr. A. B. Stone
of Cleveland purchased at auction in St.
Louis the Mississippi Valley and Western
Railroad for $600,000.....The Public School
Teachers’ Association of Baltimore have
raised $1500 to erect a monument to the
memory of Edgar A. Poe......The British
government has sent a frigate to survey
Baffin’s Bay and the North Atlantic......May
4th, Senior Antonio Cautilla who represents
the Spanish Republic, presented his creden-
tials to the President as Minister from the
King of Spain......$50,000 damage by fire at
Tompkinsville, N. Y., May 8th......The har-
bor of Buffalo, N. Y., is gorged with ice......
Hard times in Missouri in consequence of
grasshoppers, chintz-bugs, etc.....Ten Chi-
namen have received the rite of baptism in
 the Baptist Church at Portland in Oregon
........$50,000 damage by fire at Black Rock
near Buffalo, N. Y......Vice-President Wil-
son made a speech at Nashville, Tenn., May
6th......Oregon promises fine crops this sea-
son......Heavy seas, several ships recently
lost......Fifteen thousand dollars worth of
jewelry and watches were lately stolen from
an Albany jewelry store in one night.
			FOREIGN.
	Gladstone and Lord Kinnacid have at-
tended some of Moody and Sankey's revival
meetings in London; these meetings are be-
coming not only populat but fashionable.....
The Spanish government have paid to the
United States the last of the Virginius in-
demnity......Union League Club House at
the corner of 26th and Madison Avenue N.
Y. was considerably damaged by fire on the
25th of April; loss $36,000.....The Roths-
childs have issued a prospectus of a new
Russian loan of $15,000[ink splot] per cent
interest......The ceremo[ink splot]ist wash-
ing the feet of His Apostle[ink splot] evived on
Good Friday of this year by Dr. Bagshawe,
Roman Catholic Bishop, of Nottingham Eng-
land......Hepworth Dixon is writing a new
book on America, suggested by his recent
visit here......The Bishop of Breslau in
Prussia has been required to resign his office;
he refuses to comply with the conditions of
the decree......The King of Spain has con-
ferred on Prince Bismarck the order of the
Golden Fleece......At a recent sale in Lon-
don a letter of Queen Mary brought $405,
one of Queen Elizabeth $410, autographs of
Mary Queen of Scotts $285, of Burns $300
......The Khedive of Egypt has established
three judgeships to be held in his capital by
English lawyers......A woman's temperance
club has been organized in Calcutta, the first
movement of that kind ever made in that
far-off country......The Prince of Wales was
installed as Grand Master of the United
Grand Lodge of Masons at Royal Albert Hal
April 28th, in presence of a large assembly
......Count de Harcourt has been appointed
French Minister to London.........Dispatch
May 6th, from Bombay says the Cholera is
prevailing in the city of Baroda.........Mr.
Forsyth, M. P., says the Woman Sufferage
Movement in England was never brighter
in its prospects than now......Judge Kerros,
United States Consular Agent at Brest, is
dead;..... The Lord Mayor of Dublin gives a
banquet to the American rifle team on their
arrival; the Lord Mayor of London will be
present in state......It is rumored the arrest
[Column 2]
of the Madrid professors will bring about
the fall of the Spanish Ministry.
			PERSONAL.
	Senior editor of the Boston "Evening
Transcript," Henry W. Dutton, died April
15th, aged 79 years......Dr. Hartwell Carver
died in Pittsford near Rochester, N. Y.
April 16th; he was one of the first advo-
cates for connecting the Atlantic and Pacific
by railroad......Commander Leroy Fitch, of
the U. S. N., died at Logansport, Ind,, April
13th......S. R. Stephens, the sculptor, is dead.
Col. Charles Green, editor of the "Boston
Post,” retires from journalism after forty-
four years service........Michael Levy, the
well-known Paris publisher, is dead.....The
Pope is under the care of his physicians.....
Mr. Stillman Witt, a prominent railroad man,
and citizen of Cleveland, Ohio, is dead......
Stephens, the sculptor of the unfinished
monument to Wellington in St. Paul’s Ca-
thedral, is dead......The late General Shiras
was a physical curiosity, never having de-
veloped any teeth......Mr. Curtis S. Burn-
ham has been appointed Assistant Secretary
of the U. S. Treasury......Jean Frederick
De Waldeck, the famous traveller and artist,
died very recently in Paris aged 110 years
......The Marquis of Loraine and his wife,
the Princess Louise, intended making an ex-
tended tour through the United States this
summer......The notorious Bender has been
for some time confined in Arizona, but lately
escaped......Ex-Speaker Blaine and Secreta-
ry Bristow are reported aspirants for the 
Presidency.


