NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE EMPRESS of Japan cautions her young
lady friends, about talking loudly on the 
street like the vulgar "American girls."
	AMONG THE new fashionable combinations
of colors, the dirty green with black trim-
ming is the least agreeable to any complex-
ion.
	THE QUESTION of granting to women a
license to preach, has been decided in the
negative by the Northern Indiana Metho-
dist Episcopal Conference, on the ground that
discipline and usage forbid it.
	MRS. Dr. W. W. Lovejoy died recently
from the effects of an over-dose of gelse-
mium, taken for nervousness.  Cases of this
kind are becoming so frequent, that too
much care cannot be taken to avoid such ac-
cidents.
	LATE TELEGRAMS contain most heart-
rending accounts of a great disaster at sea.
The steamer "Schiller" was totally wrecked,
more than three hundred persons meeting
death by drowning.  Some of the ship's
passengers were saved, but what a terrible
experience for even those.
	ON THE 28th of April, a terrible fire oc-
curred in Oshkosh, Wis.  The burnt district
is a mile square; all the banks, offices, etc.
are burned, the safes were fire-proof.  Two men
were killed by a falling wall; more than
two hundred families were left homeless.
The loss is estimated to be more than two
millions.
	TOO FAST or too slow, too much or too lit-
tle, one extreme or the other.  So the peo-
ple move, so they talk, in a manner so
they live, all over the known world.  Yet
there is a happy medium if we can only ar-
rive at it.  And the day of salvation has
dawned, the real light is being diffused in
the midst of the inhabitants of the earth
though they comprehend it not.  The leaven
of the Lord is working, His purposes are
being fulfilled, truth will triumph.
	SAMUEL R. Wells, Professor of phrenolo-
gy, died of typhoid fever, at his residence
in New York city, April 13th. He was
widely and favorably known as an editor,
publisher, journalist and lecturer.  He was
born in West Hartford, Conn., 1820. He
recently established a very valuable Month-
ly, entitled “The Science of Health." He
was an earnest advocate of temperance and
other reforms, and was one of the few who
demonstrated in practice the principles he
inculcated.
	A LARGE Monument in honor of Colum-
bus, is to be erected in the city of Mexico.
It has been designed by Cordies, a French
sculptor; he visited Italy and Spain in order
to examine portraits of Columbus, deemed
authentic. The figure of Columbus is to be
supported by four monks; besides the base
bearing a Latin inscription, there are to be
two bas-reliefs on the base of the monument,
one representing the disembarkation of
Columbus, the other the construction of the
first church in San Francisco. It will stand
in front of the principal entrance of the
Palais de l'Industrie.


