SPEAK WITH A PURPOSE.

	Prominent among the leading follies of the
day, and one which should be assiduously
guarded against, is the senseless, idle gossip so
common in society. Friends meet and they
must say something, whether there is anything
of importance to communicate or not. If
nothing of more consequence is at hand than
the whims, peculiarities or even short-comings
of neighbors and acquaintances, these must be
ruthlessly canvassed. And in all such conver-
sations, everything must be worked up in the
most brilliant colors, to highten vivacity and
increase interest.
	It is a common thing to spend half a day or
an evening in social chat, and then take leave
of friends without feeling in the smallest de-
gree benefitted. Once is a while a friend is
met with, who has a mind stored with profita-
ble knowledge, which is dealt out whenever
the lips are opened for utterance. Never un-
duly grave, speaking with animation and pro-
priety, adorning even timely jokes with intelli-
gence. Two minutes conversation with such a
person refreshes the spirit, gladdens the heart,
and gives more satisfaction than days or weeks
spent with the commonalty.


All this helps to prove, that the display of
vanity, rather than the exercise of wisdom, is
popular; and that, certainly, a great reform
should take place in this matter.
	So much is said to no purpose, or that is pro-
ductive only of evil, that it would evidently be
better for the world if two-thirds of its inhabi-
tants spent two-thirds of their time in silence.
Yet silence is not a necessity, or the best reme-
dy for the evil in question. Conversation of
the right sort is agreeable and good. The
world is full of beautiful and pleasant things,
and there is no end to the intelligence which
may be gained.  It is as easy to talk of these
things as to talk fashionable "little nothings,"
if knowledge concerning them is but sought.
	Think more and speak less, would be an ex-
cellent maxim for many.  For without thought
and studious reflection, it is useless to speak at
all; as an idle mind is sure to give utterance to
idle words.


