WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		FRIENDSHIP'S TRUST.
	Treasured in the heart's best keeping,
		Nestled midst its tenderest thoughts;
	Lives a memory fresh with gladness,
		With most sacred feelings fraught.
	Let not e'en the gentlest zephyr,
		Breathe this secret on the air,
	Lest it lose its timid fragrance,
		Most exquisite, rich and rare.
	Sweeter than the new-mown clover,
		Filling all my soul with bloom;
	Or the morning breath of violets,
		Heavy laden with perfume.
	Rarer than the choicest nectar,
		Which "the Gods" exultant drain,
	Thrilling every nerve and fibre,
		Which the human heart contain.
	In the far, uncertain future,
		Midst its changes, grief, or pain;
	Gathered closely to my bosom,
		Shall this precious trust remain.
	Time may bring me joy, or sorrow,
		Those now dear may colder grow,
	But this friendship true and constant,
		Never must estrangement know.
	Hushed be every thought, or feeling,
		Which engender doubt or fear,
	Cherished fondly every impulse,
		That would render life more dear.
									EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 4th, 1874.			E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at teh Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 1st, 1875, was one of
unusual interest. Notwithstanding its be-
ing a "gala-day" the hall was crowded; the
speaking was spirited and inspirational.
President Mrs. M. I. Horne in addressing
the sisters upon the main subject of inter-
est at the present time, the establishing of
Home Industries, alluded to a remark made
by Sister E. R. Snow that those who en-
gaged in this work had the opportunity of
doing more towards building up Zion, than
the Elders who preach the Gospel abroad;
she believed it was a much greater work to
teach people how to live their religion at
home than to convert them. Counselor E.
R. Snow referred to the minutes of the
young ladies, and the increasing testimony
they were receiving in regard to the truth
of the Gospel, said this knowledge was only
received through revelation. She gave an
interesting sketch of her visit to Cedar
Fort, Fairfield and Lehi, where she had met
with the young people, who all seemed anx-
ious to be organized, gentlemen as well as
ladies; she had done a great deal of talking
in regard to the movement now in progres-
sion, and thought that more especially among
the young people, her labors had been ap-
preciated.  Many instructive and applica-
ble remarks were made by Counselors Z. D.
Young, P. Woodruff, and E. Howard, also
E. S. Barney upon the different branches of
Home Manufacture. Sister E. A. Whitney
sang "a song of Zion" which thrilled through
every heart in the whole assembly. Some
business relating to clothing for the Indians
was also transacted.
	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Co., April 30, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It being some time since the organization
of the "Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation" of Ephraim, I am requested to
write you in regard to the association. Our
meetings were suspended during the win-
ter, but were again resumed on the 6th of
last March. Our President, Miss Carrie
Jensen, is anxious to have the meetings
[Column 2]
continue, that we may become useful. We
all hope that in time, we may be of some
use in the kingdom of God.
	Respectfully,
		HELEN E. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	BOUNTIFUL, DAVIS Co., April 20th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is prospering. We
intend having a Fair next month, the pro-
ceeds to go towards building a new hall.
Many of our sisters seem to realize that this
work is a mission placed upon them, and
are willing to forward it to the best of their
ability.
	I give here a few particulars of our last
meeting. Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. Bar-
ney, Mrs. Steel and Mrs. Snider from Salt
Lake City were here; Bishop Call and other
gentlemen were also present.
	Meeting was opened with prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. Young. A Circular was read before
the meeting, soliciting the united influence
of the sisters, in sustaining Home Manufac-
ture.
	Mrs. Barney made some very excellent
and spirited remarks on Home Industry
showing how very necessary it was for us to
be a self-sustaining people, and help to
builb up Zion, &c.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young spoke on silk culture,
told how to raise Mulberry Trees. Encour-
aged the sisters to raise silk-worms, so that
silk and ribbons might be made in our midst.
Counseled them to cultivate the spirit of 
God, and give their children good teach-
ings.
	Several other ladies spoke on different
branches of Home Industry.
	Bishop Call spoke words of comfort and
encouragement to the sisters, he felt that
they held a high and responsible position
and could accomplish a great deal towards
building up the kingdom of God.
	Other Elders present made some very ex-
cellent remarks. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifested in our midst to our great
joy. We realized the Holy Spirit in our
hearts, bearing witness that we were ap-
proved by our Father in heaven.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Benediction by Elder Atkinson.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President.
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
Minutes of a Meeting, for the Organization
of the Young Ladies of the 13th Ward, S.
L. City.
		Residence of Prof. C. J. Thomas,
						March 13th, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing, "O my Fa-
ther &c.—On motion of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant was chosen to preside
over the meeting—Prayer by Mrs. Z. D.
Young—Singing, "Joy to the world, &c.
	Pres. Mrs. Grant spoke concerning the ob-
ject of the meeting, after which Mrs. Eliza-
beth Goddard was appointed Secretary pro.
tem., and the organization of the Rentrench-
ment Association effected as follows, by
unanimous vote, viz.:
	Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas, President,
	Miss Flora Shipp,		}
	"	Mary Ann McClean,}
	"	Ruth Woolley,		}
	"	Lillie Taylor,		}	Counselors.
	"	Lucy Stringam,	}
	"	May Wells,		}
	"	Louisa A. Ashby, Secretary,
	"	Annie Park, Assistant Secretary.
	On motion Miss Ruth Woolley was ap-
pointed to lead in Singing—Miss Annie
[Coumn 3]
Park was chosen Organist and Mrs. Fannie
Y. Thatcher Assistant Organist. After
which twenty-three young ladies were ad-
mitted as members, by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Grant then addressed the Associa-
tion, exhorting all to be punctual in attend-
ance at meetings, and not let any trifling
consideration stand in their way. She re-
lated some of her own experience by way
of encouragement, in overcoming diffidence
by practice—how she had gradually gained
confidence, &c.
	Sister Grant was followed by Sister E. R.
Snow speaking words of encouragement to
the young ladies—bearing testimony of the
power of the Gospel, that the same mani-
festations were now produced as were expe-
rienced when Jesus and the ancient apostles
were on the earth. She said it was the
privilege of the young as well as the aged
to be in possession of the gifts of the Gos-
pel, such as healing the sick, prophesying,
speaking in tongues, interpreting, &c. That
the Spirit of God produced the purest and
greatest happiness that mortals can enjoy.
She related very interesting incidents that
occurred in the Kirtland Temple, and ex-
horted her young sisters to live for eternal
blessings, and fulfill the object of their
birth, by becoming noble women, saviors on
Mount Zion &c. Said she would like an
expression whether to fill the offices unto
which they had been chosen.
	Each of the young ladies arose by turn,
and expressed their satisfaction in being
present and participating in the privilege
which was accorded, and not only a willing-
ness but a determination, to fill their posi-
tions and discharge their duties in faithful-
ness.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young expressed her pleasure
in being present on this occasion. Testified
to having witnessed many manifestations of
power by the out-pouring of the Spirit of
God. Had heard singing of angels, seen
the sick healed, and she bore testimony that
many are made whole through the adminis-
tration of the sacred ordinances. Spoke of
the first time she read the Book of Mormon,
and how sacred it seemed to her. Exhorted
the young ladies to improve their great
privileges, &c.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards and Mrs. E. Thomas
gave much useful instruction—bore corrobo-
rative testimonies of the power of God
which they had witnessed in, and from their
childhood up to the present, and counseled
the young sisters to live for, and attain to a
fulness of blessing. 
	Meeting adjourned for one week—Sing-
ing, "Praise God from whom &c. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Goddard.
					L. A. Ashby, Sec.
	SALT LAKE CITY May 10th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President Mrs. Rachel
Grant, I hand you the Sixth Annual Report
of the 13th Ward Relief Society meeting,
held in the 13th Ward Vestry, April 22nd,
1875. Showing that the Receipts, with a
small balance from last Report:
Amount in cash to.........................$208 00
Disbursed to the needy,.................. 206 10
	Leaving a balance in cash of.......90
Merchandise, clothing, etc., in Trea-
	sury from last report, valued at 80 00
Receipts in same during the past
	year......................................... 115 85
Disbursed to the needy................... 110 55
	Leaving a balance valued at..... 91 02


Cash invested in 13th ward Co-op
	and Saving Bank, with interest
	of the same, amounts to.......... 376 66
Work estimated........................... 28 75
	The meeting convened for reading the
Report, was well attended by the sisters a
good spirit prevailing.
	President Mrs. Grant regretted that so
little had been accomplished in the shape of
work, but was well pleased with the general
spirit of the meetings. Felt glad that we
were increasing in numbers and improving
in the good work, manifesting a more ear-
nest desire to be united, and be useful in
the Kingdom of God. Expressed a desire
to encourage and sustain Home Manufac-
ture.
	The sisters donate freely towards the
building of the Temple and other laudable
purposes. Most of them I believe, feel in-
terested in, and appreciate your valuable pa-
per.
	ELIZABETH H. GODDARD Secretary.


