[Vol1 | March 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Saving Habit]
THE SAVING HABIT.
Many of the women in the Relief Society have been reared by careful New England or European mothers who taught them the value of money, time and physical strength.
But few of these women have had either the opportunity or the disposition to train their daughters in the same careful way.
The spirit of today, and especially the American spirit, is one of reckless waste  a waste of time, of money and of bodily vigor.
The very air is surcharged with extravagance with careless; habits and pleasure seeking hours, while most of us pawn the present and possess only debt-burdened futures.
The want of today is the debt of tomorrow.
If the hour be spent strenuously, it matters little whether it be spent in wasteful shopping, in the deceptively cheap picture-houses, or in giving or going to extravagant social affairs.
If ten cents be saved with a trifling self-denial of one extravagant expenditure today, a dollar is thrown away tomorrow on the strength of that first economy.
Who measures out his hours as he would priceless radium?
Who takes cognizance of his days as a miser would of his hoarded coin?
Who guards his rare leisure moments from the devastating demands of silly gossiping telephone calls or idle repinings on his own part for past mistakes?
What woman maps out her daily and weekly time as would a soldier, or the 2 head of a successful shoe-shop?
What girl is taught to choose her studies in school and her hours of relaxation, with the same care that marks the long family consultation over the schooling periods of the boy?
Into these questions enter some of the vital principles of the Gospel of our Lord.
For the time is very close, and those whose lamps are burning, must learn to conserve time, oil and purchase-money lest they shall be found among the foolish ones.
Time, money, vigor of mind and body, these are our resources.
Let us consider them for a moment.
The experience of centuries has proved that time is saved by an orderly disposition of the moments and hours that comprise the working day.
Moreover, habit, that slave or master, will take charge of much of the waste products of odd moments; and if we have formed the "habit" of using these as well as all the other moments profitably, habit will oil the bearings, smooth out the rough places, and practically assume charge of all our time.
And the comfort of following quietly in the path of habit.
It is not work, nor burdens that destroy the human system, physical and mental, it is the failure to achieve that which we have planned and desired to do, the misery of seeing the hours slip by without the accomplishment of our cherished desires.
Or, worse, it is the feeling of tasks piling up while we recklessly permit interruptions of minor importance to squander our moments, skimp our hours and dull our decisions of what to choose out in the multiplicity of duties that confront us after a wasted afternoon.
Such unregulated time numbs the sense of choosing, destroys all poise in the human equation, and unfits any woman for wise living.
She becomes a straw thrown on the waves of circumstance, a feather blown by the winds of chance, and a whisper breathed into the uncertain ear of fate.
When we approach the question of money-spending we are face to face with the great crying evil of civilized society.
For the really poor people are those who waste their financial resources, whether it be ten-cent wastes or ten-dollar wastes, We approach the end of our days in fear and dread lest there shall be no provision for our last sickness, no funds to bury us decently out of sight.
