[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: WIDOWS IN INDIA. | Author: Unknown]

WIDOWS IN INDIA.
	For a year after the death of the husband
the widow has special rites to perform. For
thirteen days after the funeral she must not
change her clothes. No one pays any atten-
tion to her or gives her a kind word. She
must be content with one meal a day and at
the end of that time her head is shaved. At
certain intervals throughout her life she is ex-
pected to fast and these intervals include two
days of fasting during every month of her
widowhood. During these days she must
touch nothing in the shape of liquid or solid
food, and whether she is sick or well, it makes
no difference. The Hindoos say that the soul
of a man after his death,goes to heaven quickly
and pleasantly in proportion to the sufferings
of his wife during the month after his death.
Consequently the mother-in-law and the rest
of the relatives try to make these sufferings
as great as possible. The widow can never
take part in any festivity, and it would be an
evil omen if she attended a marriage- She
gets no word of pity from the women of the
household, and she is lower than the servants.
Even in death she has not the funeral of other
women. Her body is not burned in the
clothes she has on, and only a coarse, white
cloth covers her as she lies on the funeral pyre.
Her husband, if he would, could not help her
condition. Women cannot inherit property
among the Hindoos, and if any thing is left by
the husband, it goes to the children.
	In the northwest provinces of India, where
the holiest of Hindoos live, the treatment of
the widows is even worse than that described
in the above statement. Here the woman is
often dragged along with the husband’s corpse
to the cremation. She is pushed into the
water and made to stand there, while the body
is burning. She comes home in her wet
clothes and she dare not change them. It
matters not if she be sick, or whether the
weather be warm or cold. She sleeps in these
clothes for thirteen days and she is persecuted
by all.						Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,			EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST	15	1890.


