[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: HEPHZIBAH. | Author: Unknown]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXVI.

    In all the shifting scenes and toils of life,
	Where’er her fortune, or her lines were cast;
    Battling for right 'mid all the storms and strife;
	Buoyant and hopeful even to the last.

	The fall and winter following Mrs. Hatha-
way’s arrival in Nauvoo were of special note
in the history of the Church, and each and
every event that transpired made upon her a
deep and lasting impression, as also upon Lucy
Reynolds and her husband, for though they
were staunch Latter-day Saints they were
totally unacquainted with the spirit of moboc-
racy, that pervaded Nauvoo and its suburbs,
and one might almost say Hancock Co., and
the State of Illinois. During that winter the
Nauvoo Temple was so far completed, as to be
ready for ordinances, and this seemed to arouse
the evil passions of the wicked mobs beyond all
reason; persecution raged to the very extreme,
and an exodus of some of the Saints, especially
the leaders of the Church and their families,
was talked of early in the winter. So many
occurrences took place about this time that it is
impossible to do more than barely touch upon
them; and that is perhaps sufficient for the
story we are writing.
	The Saints who were in good standing were
anxious to receive their blessings in the beauti-
ful Temple that had been built at such great
expense, under such trying circumstances, and
while many of those who worked upon it were
so poor they were scantily supplied with the
necessaries of life, yet they had toiled on, de-
termined to finish the Lord’s house. Brigham
Young, who by virtue of his position as Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve was really
the leader of the people, was desirous that as
many of the Saints as could, should have the
privilege of the blessings to be given in the
House of the Lord, while there was still an
opportunity granted them, for prophet as he
was, he foresaw the hindrances that weuld fol-
low; and day after day the Temple was
crowded with brethren and sisters. It was a
grand and beautiful sight and one that can
never be forgotten while memory lasts, not
only inside the magnificent and holy edifice,
but to see the Saints flocking up the broad
steps and to the doors of the Temple as we had
read of in ancient days during the short time
they were permitted to work therein.
	Hephzibah had many excellent opportunities
of becoming familiar with the highest and
most exalted principles and truths pertaining
to the Gospel, as well as to the great and grand
work which was being performed in the
Temple; and it really seemed that she had been
mysteriously led without her own volition into
a channel of association whereby she might
obtain certain great blessings and privileges
not only for herself, but for her mother; who
was such a devout and faithful exemplar of
the first principles taught by the Elders and
also so intelligent concerning the prophecies of
scriptures, which she had so carefully studied.
Coming to Nauvoo at a time when one great
event was crowding thick upon another, with-
out being known except by a few, she (Mrs.
Hathaway) would not have had the privilege
of going into the Temple as she so much de-
sired, had it not been that the way had been
opened for her through Hepsie’s misfortunes
and sorrows, that had thrown her into the
[column 2]
society of those who “went in and out of the
Temple day and night.”
	Hepsie realized now it was in her power to
get the privilege of Temple ordinances for her
dear mother who had been so zealous and
earnest an adherent to the Gospel ever since it
was first preached in the little country village
in New England, though she had not had the
opportunity of gathering to Nauvoo in the
life-time of the Prophet, and hearing his voice
for herself which she had so ardently desired.
	It was a great comfort to Hepsie that she
could assist her mother in this way spirit-
ually, even at the time, but in years after-
ward she realized more fully, how surely the
hand of Providence, had guided her in ways
she knew not, and against which her spirit and
her pride had. wofully rebelled, though she
had kept silence, and none knew except her-
self the struggles she had undergone in her
heart and soul.
	All this time she had heard nothing from
the Harvey’s, and she knew now that she had
hoped against hope, with regard to Harold.
She felt confident in her own mind that he was
dead, though no word or message came save
the still small whisper down in the depths of
her own soul, which told her plainly that she
was free and at liberty, to make choice of
another if she so desired. She did not know
whether she cared for this freedom or not, she
had passed through so many trying ordeals,
that she seemed only to think of peace, she
had been so completely subdued and remolded
that she was not sure if she still possessed any
of the romantic characteristics of former days.
She had given up everything; all her girl-
friends, all her associates, and once she had
thought that weuld be impossible; even Lucy
Reynolds seemed more her mother’s friend,
than hers; what did it all mean? Mrs. Hatha-
way quickly discerned after her arrival the
great change that had taken place in Hepsie,
though she rejoiced that it had increased in-
stead of lessening her faith.
	“Hepsie,” she said one day when they were
alone together, “what has made such a radical
change in you? It seems incredible to me, (and
I am your mother,) that you should have lost
your ambition to be a writer, or teacher, your
poetical taste, your aspirations for fame, that
we once thought so firmly rooted and grounded
in your nature from early childhood, can you
explain what has caused it? Is it Harold's un-
faithfulness?”
	Hepsie’s lip quivered, her eyelids trembled,
her whole soul convulsed with peculiaremo-
tions; she knew not what to answer, but feel-
ing as she always had her mother’s superiority,
and recognizing her right to question, she col-
lected her scattered thoughts and replied
hastily. “Don’t question me, mother, I can’t
bear to talk of these things now, everything in
this world has changed for me; henceforth my
religion shall be my all.”
	Mrs. Hathaway never questioned Hepsie
again, but she saw and felt that she was
absorbed as it were in something that engrossed
her thoughts and occupied her mind to the ex-
clusion of all else, and she remarked to
Lucy Reynolds (now Mrs. Adams) one day
when they were talking. “Can you tell me
Lucy, what has come over Hepsie to work such
an entire change in her?” “No,” replied Lucy,
“unless it is the Temple work and the exalting
nature of the principles taught by the Apostles
and Elders concerning a spiritual exaltation


[column 1]
through sacrifice, that she seems to think so
far in advance of all the learning and wisdom
of the world.”
	Shortly after the conversation between Mrs.
H. and Lucy, Hepsie said to her mother in a
sort of casual way, “the leaders of the Church
and their families are preparing to leave
Nauvoo and go forth into the wilderness to
seek a place of refuge from their oppressers, as
the Pilgrims did, only instead of crossing the
sea, they will go over the great American
desert.” Mrs. H. looked up from her sewing
in surprise exclaiming, “and do you think of
undertaking this journey?” .“Why, mother
would it be such a dreadful thing to do? there
are many young women going, and there is
nothing to hinder my trying a new experience,
there will be plenty of toil and hardship con-
nected with it no doubt, but to travel through
an unknown country will be interesting in the
extreme!” “And do you take into consideration
that you will be leaving your mother and all
your own kindred?” And Mrs. Hathaway al-
most broke down as she said it Hepsie had
scarcely seen her mother weep in her lifetime,
and it was almost too much for her, she had
not thought she would take it so to heart, and
it was a few minutes before she could reply,
and when she did, it was with a great effort she
maintained her composure, but she felt she
must speak out, and choking down her sobs and
looking up at her mother’s sorrowful face, she
said “Something tells me I must go mother,”
and before she could finish the sentence her
mother interrupted her saying, “and some-
thing tells me if you go we shall never meet
again.” By this time mother and daughter
were both in tears; it was indeed a trying scene,
Hepsie felt as she had expressed herself that
she was impelled to go by some irresistible
force, and she hoped to make a satisfactory ex-
planation to her mother, though it almost
broke her heart to be separated from her again
so soon. Words seemed powerless to express
her feelings and her great love for her mother
made it very hard for her to decide,and yet the
whisperings of her own heart were all the time
urging her forward.
	Lucy (Mrs. Adams) coming in put a stop
to the conversation for a few minutes, but ere
long Lucy said “Hepsie is it true that you are
going away to Upper California beyond the
Rocky Mountains?” Hepsie made no reply.
But Mrs. Hathaway who was specially anxious
to know what had made Lucy inquire, said ex-
citedly, “Who says Hepsie is going away?” “O,
Brother Kimball says so, and I’ve heard others
say it too, I thought ’twas all settled, I only wish
I was going, but we can’t go yet, but we’ll be
sure to follow after.” Then you approve of
this move and expect that all the Saints
will go as soon as they can?” Mrs. Hathaway
said, anxious te know what her opinion was.
"Most certainly, why Brother Kimball says
its the grandest move the Church has ever
made, there they’ll be free to worship God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, with none to molest or make afraid.”
“I am very glad to hear Brother’s Kimball’s
views, I know they must be correct, though that
does not reconcile me to parting with Hepsie,
and I am not prepared to go now in such haste.”
“It is not expected that widows will go with
young children this winter,” said Mrs. Adams,
who seemed as anxious to tell all she knew
about the matter as Hepsie was to keep silence
on the subject, “but the Church will send for
the widows and children, the aged, and those
who cannot go now, as soon as they get located.”
	“Really Hepsie are you going, because if
you are I’m sure you are expecting to be
married again.” Hepsie was now fully aroused,
no one had ever mentioned marriage to her in
presence of her mother, and she resented
such an insinuation, as though it were an in-
sult; in the bitterest tone she said, “Lucy
[column 2]
Adams how dare you talk to me like that, am
I not already married, and have I not suffered
enough for a lifetime?” "O, as to that,” re-
plied the incorrigible Lucy, “you were never
so desperately in love with Harold that it need
to hinder you from marrying again, and in all
probability he’s dead anyway, I saw his brother
the other day, and he declares Harold is dead,
or he would have come back before now, for
he wrote him a letter and said, he would come
back for you within a year if he lived, and the
year is long past now.” Even Mrs. Hathaway
felt this was too much upon such a painful
subject, and addressing Mrs. Adams, said “you
are simply torturing Hepsie beyond all en-
durance, she has no thought of marriage I am
positive.”	
	What Mrs. Adams had said about Harold’s
death had its effect upon Hepsie, she could
not dismiss the subject from her mind by night
or by day; and she resolved to ascertain if
possible whether he was living or dead.
	After that day Hepsie felt she could never
meet Lucy again and she was anxious to go,
and to get away from all those who would be
likely to mention Harold’s name to her. Mean-
time she made the matter a subject of con-
stant prayer in her heart, as she performed her
daily duties, and she struggled with her feel-
ings to know how to bear the separation from
her mother, which she knew was inevitable if
she concluded to accept the offer she had to go
with the first company, who were to leave the
beautiful city of Nauvoo in midwinter. She
never thought of the hardships to be encount-
ered, the journey had no fears for her; to be
with those who had the word of the Lord,
with prophets and Apostles,to be always gaining
a knowledge of those things that pertain to
eternal life, and the advancement of the Lat-
ter-day work was her object. She tried by
persuasion and entreaty to reconcile her mother,
believing in her heart and assuring her, that
she would by going forward herself, be able to
advance her interests and help her more than
if she stayed behind. “I am no longer a child,”
she said, “but able to think and act for myself
relying upon my Heavenly Father for guid-
ance and protection.


