VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1895.		No. 4.


CONTENTS:
	Bryant the Poet—Mrs. Lawler. In Rural Eng-
land. Mrs. Messenger’s Poems—E. B. W. U.
W. P. C.—L. S. Wilcox. Our Little Paper—M.
E. K. What is Our Position Today—Zion’s Con-
vert. Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw. Mrs. Diggs
of Kansas. The Evolution of Suffrage—Ellen
Battelle Dietrick. Relief Society Organized—V.
F. Major. Notes and News. Mrs. Horne’s Visit
to Idaho—L. M. Hart.
	EDITORIAL:—Shall WomenVote in November?
Old Folks Annual Excursion.
	POETRY:—Paul or Christ—Lillie E. Barr. Son-
nets on the Virgin Mary—Ruby Lamont. Golden
Bells—E. R. S.


PAUL OR CHRIST.

			By Lillie E. Barr.

‘‘I suffer not that any woman teach, 
	Or bear the message of the Lord’s good will;
Let her keep silence—she hath no call to preach-
	’Tis hers to learn and modestly sit still."
Thus the Apostle. Yet the risen Lord, 
	Waiting beside the newly-broken tomb
For messenger to send with His first word
	Unto the church within that upper room,
Chose but a woman with a loving heart
	(Oh! fair her feet with those glad tidings shod)
“I am arisen, and I now depart
	And go unto our Father and our God.” 
Did Christ make some mistake, that first by her 
	The truth and light ol resurrection shone?
He Mary chose to be his messenger; 
	Would Paul have sent St. Peter or St. John?
							-   New York Independent.


SONNETS ON THE VIRGIN MARY.

Among the vestal virgins of the courts
In the grand Temple, Mary moved, the peer,
In beauty and in holiness sincere;
Most frequent to the altar she resorts,
And in her pure devotion, born of trust
And more than common faith, her soul aspires
To win the glorious heights where spirits just
And true and perfect, in unending fires
Of glory, dwell with God. Her high-arched brows,
Penciled o’er eyes with spirit all aglow,
Bespeak her depth of soul; 'mid angel vows
She moves in meekness; her sweet voice is low
With thougnt and kindness; the pure law of God,
Her brightest joy; its high, pure path she trod.

Meek, gentle maiden! when thy lovely boy
Was laid within thine arms, the tender voice
Of thy sweet infant bade thine heart rejoice,
How must dark grief have mingled with thy joy.
Thy gold of gladness had its dark alloy!
How must thine heart have shrunk from sorrow’s
	hour!
Was not rejected, scorned, the prophet’s cry?
Must He not fall beneath th’ oppressor’s power?
Within the depths of those pure, heart full eyes,
In love and wonder bent upon thy child,
A dark’ning shadow of the future lies.
'Tis fate; thine heart must yield, sweet mother,
	mild.
The pain is deeper than the sad world knows,
And darker e’en than others are thy woes!
						RUBY LAMONT.


[column 1]
		BRYANT THE POET.

	Wm. Cullen Bryant, was born at Cumming-
ton, Massachusetts on Nov. 3rd, 1794, and
died June 12th, 1878. He was our earliest
great poet and Thanatopsis one of his earli-
est poems. But when we call Bryant our
earliest poet and Thanatopsis our earliest
poem, we must not suppose that both had
not had many ineffectual predecessors.
Versifiers like gowns flourish for a time
and are then forgotten in favor of a later
fashion? Bryant being asked in 1818 to
write an article on American poetry for the
American Review, complied, and, among
the many names of poets mentioned in his
article the works of not one of them are
read today. All these volumes belong to
fossil literature, that may be dug up and
studied for the light it may throw on the
customs of a time, or its own intellectual de-
velopment, but which so far as its own vi-
tality is concerned has passed away beyond
hope of resuscitation. Almost coeval with
American Independence itself was the no-
tion that there ought to be an Independent
American literature. The revolution had
resulted in the formation of a republic new
in pattern, in opportunities, in ideals; a re-
public which having broken forever with
the political system of Britain would gladly
have been freed from all obligations, includ-
ing intellectual and aesthetic obligations to
her. We hardly realize how acute was the
sensitiveness of our great-grandfathers on
this point. The satisfaction they took in
recalling the victories of Bennington and
Yorktown vanished when they were re-
minded, and there was always some candid
foreigner at hand to remind them that a na-
tion's real greatness is measured not by the
size of its crops, nor by its millions of
square miles of surface, nor even by its
ability to whip King George the III,
armies but by its contributions to philos-
ophy, to literature, to art, to religion;
“What have you to show in these lines?”
We imagine the candid foreigner to have
been perpetually asking, and the patriotic
American to have winced as he had to re-
ply “nothing.”
	The Hebrew Patriarchs whose faith
Jehovah tested by denying them children
until their wives were aged, were not less
troubled at the postponement of their dear-
est wishes than were these eager watchers
for the advent of American genius. Long
before Bryant's little volume was published
in 1821, those watchers had begun to spec-
ulate as to the sort of work in which that
genius would manifest itself and there was
conjured up that bogy—The American
Spirit—which has flitted up and down
through our college lecture rooms and
fluttered the mind of immature critics ever
since. Consequently they did not ask “Is
it excellent?” but has it the American
spirit? Bryant himself must consciously or
unconsciously have been subjected to
those influences, for who can escape breath-
ing the common atmosphere? But he had
within him that which is more potent than

[column 2]
any external mold, and which is the one
trait in genius of any kind, he had sincerity.
What he saw he saw with his own eyes.
what he spake he spake with his own lips.
Bryant by merely being natural and sincere
was instantly recognized as belonging to
that lineage, every one of whose children is
a King.
	The story of his entrance into literature
cannot be too often told. His father was
a genial, fairly cultivated country doctor;
his mother, Sarah Snell, an indefatigable
housewife with Yankee common sense and
deep-grained Puritan principles. William
Cullen was precocious; both parents en-
couraged his aptitude for verse making. In
1810 he entered the Sophomore class of
William’s College and spent a year there.
He hoped to pass from William’s to Yale
where he looked for more advanced in-
structions, but his father's means did not
permit and instead of finishing his course at
William’s he went into a country lawyer’s
office and fitted himself for the bar Just
at the moment of indecision, in the autumn
of 1811 Byrant wrote Thanatopsis. Contrary
to his custom he did not show it to his
father but laid it away with other papers in
a drawer. Six years later his father, Dr. 
Bryant, found that and the “Waterfowl.”
He sent them to Boston and they appeared
in the Review for September 1817. The
young poet having completed his law
studies was practicing law at Great Barring-
ton unconscious of the fame about to de-
scend upon him; the best judges agreeing
at last that a bit of genuine American liter-
ature was before them, and the uncritical
but appreciative, from ministers to school
children, read, learned, admired and quoted
the grave sonorous lines. Thanatopsis is
composed of two Greek words, Thanatos,
meaning death, and opsis a view—a vision
of death. A strange corner stone for the
poetic literature of the nation which had
only lately sprung into life, a nation con-
scious as no other had been of its exuberant
vitality, of its boundless material resources,
of its expansiveness and invincible will.
Yet neither the glory achieved nor the am-
bition cherished fired the imagination of the
youthful poet. He looked upon the earth
and saw it but a vast grave. He looked
upon men and believed not their high at-
tainments nor the great deeds which herald
hnman story but their transcience, their
mortality. Nothing in life could so awe
him as the majestic mystery of death. A 
hundred years have elapsed since his birth;
three generations have known his works.
His poetry lives today and the qualities
which have vitalized it for three quarters of
a century show no signs of decay. There is
no doubt as to the veracity of his pictures,
and the moral tone which pervades them is
of a kind men will not soon outgrow. As
editor of N. Y. Evening Post, his editorials
were always full of dignity. He elevated
the level of the American newspaper. He
was never a snarling critic either of men or
of measures, and there was in the office of 
the paper a list of words and phrases not al-
lowed in its pages.


Bryant delighted in nature, for her own
sake, for her beauty and variety. What is 
more beautiful than these expressive lines
taken from “God’s First Temples.”

A FOREST HYMN.
	“Father, thy hand
Hath reared these venerable columns, thou
Dids’t weave this verdant roof. Thou dids’t
	look down
Upon the naked earth, and, forthwith, rose
All these fair ranks of trees. They in thy sun
Budded, and shook their green leaves in thy
	breeze,
And shot towards heaven. The centuary-living
	crow
Whose birth was in their tops, grew old and died
Among their branches, till, at last, they stood,
As now they stand, massy, and tall, and dark,
Fit shrine for humble worshiper to hold
Communion with his maker.”

	Who among us have not felt enough of
sadness at the death of summer to enter
into Bryant’s feelings when he wrote
THE DEATH OF THE FLOWERS. 
	But to me the grandest of them all is
Thanatopsis.
	May we all,

‘‘So live that when the summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan, which moves
To that mysterious realm, where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not like the quarry-slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and
	soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.”
(MRS.) LAWLER.
	Read at the Utah Women’s Press Club
1894.


WOMEN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLV.

	When Jane Harrison bade the Walton
children good-bye her her sorrow was very
keen notwithstanding her manifest self-
control; she felt there was much to be con-
sidered and perhaps it would be best for
the present that they should be with Mait-
land, it would she hoped and trusted be a
tie to bind him to his home. Her own
heart was sorely afflicted because of the war
which was disrupting the country and her
husband was taking an active part in pub-
lic affairs which every day assumed more
serious proportions. Sidney Barrington
was chaplain of a regiment stationed near,
and all this was decidedly against the
opinions of Maitland, though he was so
thoroughly indifferent to his country's
methods that he took little interest in what
Mrs. Harrison and others told him. Jane
Harrison was very patriotic in her way and
willing to make every sacrifice possible for
the cause of the colonies in their rebellion
against British rule, and to the utmost of
her ability she encouraged and stimulated
those women who were faint-hearted and
fearful of the final outcome.
	Some months went by and still Rob Har-
rison was away on duty and his wife had
only her woman and neighbors about, but
Conway had grown a great boy and com-
panionable, and they conversed much
together of the old castle, and the beautiful
scenery which the boy remembered well,
and his mother dwelt upon the serious

[Column 2]
wrongs inflicted upon the colonies by King
George, and the boy Conway would grow
quite enthusiastic as he listened to his
mother's eloquent portrayal of the hard-
ships endured by the early Pilgrims, and
the injustice of the mother country. Once
or twice he asked, "Why did you let Ed-
ward and Anna go back to live under such
a wicked King, a tyrant, could we not have
kept them here with us? now we shall never
see them for the King will never let ships
come when the war is over."
	"Never fear Conway," his mother ans-
wered, "they will be sure to come when
we are free, and stay with us, but you Con-
way, promise me you will be true to this
our land and never forsake it never, what-
ever betide." And the boy promised for
in reality Jane Harrison feared should any-
thing happen to her, that Clair would feel
it his right to take Conway back to Hilliard
castle.
	But Mrs. Harrison lived, a little daugh-
ter was born to her one stormy night when
her husband was miles away, and none but
her women were near her, yet she rejoiced
that she passed the ordeal safely for Con-
way's sake as well as the little stranger,
and she knew too, how glad her husband
would be for his first-born. Mrs. Harrison
recovered rapidly, in fact there was no time
to be ill, there was too much excitement
everywhere, and the most harrowing tales
were told from one to another of the hard-
ships and privations of those who were de-
fending their homes and country against
such fearful odds.
	At last on leave of absence her husband
came and her joy was almost too great, but
she exerted herself to be calm, and Mr.
Harrison displayed more emotion with all
his heroism than the patient mother who
had borne so much alone, waiting in ex-
pectancy of what she knew not. "Jane,
my dear wife, what shall we call our little
darling, you know I must soon be off again
and I should like her named while I am
here with you."
	Jane knew as women do naturally that
he would love to have his little one called
by the name of one he had loved when a
boy and quickly replied, "Let us name
her Clarice for Anna's mother, it would
have pleased Anna I am sure." "Always
brave and self-denying was there ever such
a woman as my true and loyal wife? I was
thinking we could call her Jane."
	"Oh no we cannot have two Jane's in
one house." "Then let it be Clarice since
you really wish it." and they both felt it
was right, and so it was settled. Sidney
came home too meantime and baby was
christened Clarice Harrison.
	When Clair and Maitland heard the
news of baby Harrison, they sent costly
presents and loving messages, and the
children Edward and Anna talked of noth-
ing else for weeks afterwards, and indeed
they never forgot the time when the letter
came bringing word of the little cousin
away over the water, the great sea of which
they had so often talked since they had
crossed it on their return to England.
Maitland allowed the children to go often
to the castle and stay there with Clair who
was very fond of them and they loved the
place much better than Walton Hall. Lady
Walton was very suspicious and sometimes
irritable with them sending them away just
when they were most anxious to be with
her, for she was always elegantly attired

[Column 3]
and everything about her of the most ele-
gant and costly ornaments, furnishings and
pictures and the children thought this
grand lady and her belongings as charming
as any fairy tale and sometimes when the
maid would tell them of fairyland and the
wonderful people who lived there, little
Anna would exclaim, "but mamma, Lady
Walton, is more beautiful than any of them."
Lady Walton was very proud of Edward
and also very fond of him, he bore the name
she loved best, and gave promise of being as
brave and as brilliant as Sir Edward had
been in his palmy days.
	The next event of great importance was
the sudden death of Lady Walton; and this
made a material change in the family ar-
rangements. Maitland's wife had never
cared for his mother with any degree of
affection, but had allowed her to retain the
place of honor, being too sensible to assert
herself though Maitland had sometimes in-
sisted upon her doing so; the children too
had been left more under her direction,
though sometimes for weeks together she
left them to the care of maids and govern-
neses. Now young Lady Walton assumed
the responsibility of the household, and
proposed to superintend the children.
	As is well known the war of the Revolu-
tion lasted for seven years and during that
period of time Robert and Jane Harrison
remained true to the allegiance given to the
colonies, and Robert Harrison was pro-
moted and given the title of Major, while
Sidney Barrington still true to his patriotic
convictions prayed and preached, and min-
istered comfort and consolation to many
hundreds of wounded and dying men. His
mission was a lofty one and he was ever
aided and encouraged in this work of love
by his aunt, Jane Harrison.
	Meantime very little was known of their
friends on the other side the water; party
feeling ran very high and there was no op-
portunity to argue or adjust questions re-
lating to differences of opinion. Their lives
drifted wide apart, all communication was
in a measure cut off. It was long after-
wards "when the cruel war was over," and
peace was restored, that some news came
indirectly at first that Clair Hilliard had
been abroad that a son had been born to
him, and his wife had died shortly after, and
he was left alone and desolate; that Mait-
land had not been so circumspect as it was
hoped he would be. Clair afterwards de-
cided to take his little son and go across the
sea to America and visit his cousin. News
from the relatives there was very encoura-
ging, and almost without warning, save a
message sent by a mutual friend, he arrived
late one summer evening at the handsome
residence of his cousin Jane. The meeting
was a very affecting one and many tears
were shed, and it was more like one coming
from another world. Mrs. Harrison was
deeply shocked at the change in her cousin
and felt unless he recuperated quickly, his
days were numbered. He was no longer
the light-hearted gay musician and singer,
but frail and care-worn, evidently the death
of his young wife, and the care and burden
of a large estate had taken much of his vi-
tality, and he had not the heart or the am-
bition to rise above these difficulties and
afflictions. Clair gave them good news of
Anna's children, told them of the beautiful
Anna, and the brave and captivating young
Edward, which was very gratifying to his
cousin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.							27


GOLDEN BELLS.

[Read at the Golden Wedding of Brother and
Sister Cla[-]k of Farmington.]

	Hark, listen to those golden bells!
	How many thoughts their music tells
	How many scenes of joy and pain,
	Are echoed in that sweet refrain.

	Our heart-throbs beat with each wild stroke,
	As if from years of slumber woke.
	For ah! those golden wedding bells,
	Just half a long, long century tells!

	Their golden tongues with potent power,
	Portray the dark and brighter hour. 
	But through them all with love sublime,
	Two hearts with faith and trust still twine.

	Now many friends with loving thought
	Have homage to the faithful brought;
	For they with toil and earnest zeal.
	Have worked for years for Zion’s weal.

	Unflinching ever since their youth,
	They’ve labored long to spread the truth, 
	And in the hearts of young and old,
	Their names enshrined in words of gold.

	From many hearts come fervent prayers
	For God to lighten all their cares;
	Increase their joys, augment their powers,
	Make smooth, their path, and scatter, flowers.

	Their days on earth with joys be crowned,
	Until the “diamond bells” shall sound,
	And called at last by Heavenly bells 
	To join the feast where Father dwells.
								E. R. S.


MRS. MESSENGER’S POEMS.
	
	When in Washington last winter a very
bright and pleasant lady was introduced to
me by a dear friend whom I met on my
first visit to the capital, and in introducing
the lady she said; My friend here, Mrs.
Messenger is a poet and an author which,
(as a matter of course) interested me very
much more, and after conversing with her
a few minutes, she promised to give me a
copy of her book, in return I promised to
make a notice of it after a careful review,
which I had not time to give for some
weeks, but have found some charming
verses and can safely recommend its perusal.
	The title is “The Vision of Gold,” which
is a long poem of real merit and then many
shorter poems. One rather lengthy poem
but very odd and quite a romance full of
clear-cut gems is Halloween, which opens
with an extract from Goethe.

	“And what is more deserving to survive,
	And silently to work for centuries,
	Than the confession of a gentle love
	Confided modestly to gentle song.”

	Mrs. Lillian Rozell Messenger is the full
name of the author of the book of poems
from which we republish some snatches as
specimens; all her poems are pure in lan-
guage and feeling, and show a mind gentle
and refined, as well as poetic talent and cul- 
tivation.
	From a poem entitled “Adieu.”
		“Good-night, sweet night;
		I must away though not to leave thee dumb,
		Nor very lone, for see the moon hath come
		And gives thee now a soul of light!”
	In a poem of three pages, all very good
called “The Press,” I have selected one
verse.


"As far as the desert spreads its night,
	In the forest or West or East,
The Press to the dreary will bear its light, 
		And knowledge shall be high-priest.” 
From one called “Fate.”
	"The murmur of joy in the young old tree,
		And echoes in two hearts below,
Who dream in love’s felicity
Which only the loving know. 
					“If.”
	"The little prayer I said for you,
	That floated out on violet wings
	Softer than roses twilight brings
	Between the sunset and the sea,—
	That angels named Felicity—
	Will ope the cold, dark door and roll
	The stone away from your dim soul
	Whence you will come to find instead
	Your higher self, peace wept as dead,
	And angels by, you never knew.
	If love be true! If love be true!
					“A Farewell.”
	"Good-bye, old year, good-bye!
	I hope that you buried all wrongs said,
	And the broken vows,let them rest in your tomb!
	For Oh, you’ve taken from me
	What will not return through the cycles fled,
	Nor be lost in eternity.”

	The book contains many gems. The
poem Farewell is a very beautiful one, we
have only quoted the last verse.
								E. B. W.


U. W. P. C.

	Minutes of Utah Woman’s Press Club
meeting, held Saturday evening June 29th,
1895. Vice-president Ruth M. Fox presid-
ing. Opening prayer by Mrs. E. J. Steven-
son. Roll called. Minutes of previous
meeting read and with one exception ap-
proved.
	Mrs. Hattie B. Harker gave a biographi-
cal sketch of Mrs. Phoebe W. Woodruff.
	Mrs. M. A. Winters, a visitor from Pleas-
ant Grove, was invited to address the meet-
ing. Said that she when a little girl, had
traveled with her mother in the company
of Mrs, Woodruff; knew her to be a noble
woman.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells and Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson both spoke in honor and
praise of Mrs. Woodruff, and gave remin-
scensces of her life.
	Mrs. Wells read an original poem,
“Autumnal Musings.”
	This was followed by a debate, “Shall
We Have a Double Money Standard for
America?” The affirmative won
	Programme for next meeting. Roll called
to be answered by sentiments from John
Ruskin. Subject, “The Single Tax Ques-
tion.” Dr. R. B. Pratt to lecture and the
members to discuss. Song, Miss Pearl
Russel. Original Poem, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
Meeting adjourned for one month. Bene-
diction by Mrs. L. D. Alder.
	L. S. WILCOX Sec’y.


THE growing interest of women in pub-
lic questions was strikingly shown last
week in the National Republican League
Convention, at Cleveland, O. Populist
women take fully as active a part in the
conventions of their party, and Democratic
women are coming more and more to do
the same. It is a good thing for women of
all shades of political faith to co-operate
with the men holding similar views.---Ex.


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	This morning I was highly entertained
while reading our little paper. In the
first place in reading the remarks of our be-
loved Sister Horne whose teaching is al-
ways so motherly and kind, well seasoned
by scripture lessons making every word
weighty and inspiring to memory. Not
only so but all the daily duties of life which
have been her experience appreciated day by
day, and practicable as well.
	She also refers to the remarks of President
Brigham Young, who, while urging the im-
portance of diligence and faithfulness in our
duties to God and to each other said, “If
we are not diligent and faithful in keeping
the commands of God our Father, when
Babylon falls we will fall with her. Nor
will we be worthy to be called by the name
of Him whom St. John saw in his vision
whose name was written on his thigh,
“Faithful and True.”
	Another article in this paper, the editorial,
was called, The Need of the Hour, her
opinion is, there never was a time when
there was greater need of activity and dili-
gence in looking after the interests of the
community than the present. This then
shows that the growth and prosperity of a
people depend largely upon the work of
the preliminary proceedings, also the energy,
perseverance, thrift and industry of its sons
and daughters, and finally her petition is,
“Oh, that supreme wisdom may be given as
it was to our fore-fathers who framed the
glorious constitution of our great Republic.”
	Now I would ask, should not we offer
another petition for those men who are
now expected to frame as she says a consti-
tution for the State of Utah, that it may be
permanent, a sure foundation that will not 
continually need patching up. because it is
not equally well poised?
	It seems that we have every facility to
make Utah a lovely State a good home for
the industrious and frugal community.
Such as those who first entered this valley;
they were a humble people appreciating
every blessing as a gift from God our
Father, not forgetting to thank Him con-
tinually for blessing the efforts of this peo-
ple and also in answering their prayers in
times of affliction, for such times will come
occasionally to prove us, this test will show
whether we are chaff or wheat, and charita-
ble as well. Yes, it will test our faith in
omnipotence who is at the head of all in-
telligence, and of the One who never fails to
hear the prayers of those who keep his
commandments, for such persons can ask
in faith, knowing the words of Jesus were,
“In vain ye call me Lord, Lord, and do
not the things which he bids us.” Then
let us be careful not to grasp too eagerly
the things of this life that we forget the
world and look beyond, is my prayer.
M. E. K.
Sept. 25th, 1894.


MISS NELLIE MURPHY of the Antlers
Hotel, Colorado Springs, is said to be the 
only woman room-clerk in a large hotel in
this country. In England the position is
often held by women.
	THE demand for space in the Woman's
Building at the Cotton States and Inter-
national Exposition has been so great that
the woman's board has been compelled to 
ask for an appropriation for an annex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE  WELLS CANNON (Camelia), 	Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time. $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street. opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second class matter
	SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1895.


[Column 1]

SHALL WOMEN VOTE IN
NOVEMBER?

	The question of whether women can
legally register and vote at the coming
election in November is still unsettled and 
from information of a reliable character we
glean that the Utah Commission are un-
willing or not sufficiently confident to de-
cide it. It seems incredible that such an 
important matter should be left to registrars
to decide, and it involves too much interest
in the new state to be set aside without in-
vestigation. Lawyers and judges have
had the matter under advisement, but no
positive solution of the question has been
reached.
	The Utah Commission are busy appoint-
ing registrars for the several counties, and 
we notice that at a meeting held by the 
Commission on Friday June 12th, Commis-
sioner Tatlock introduces a resolution on
this subject, proposing to submit the ques-
tion to the Attorney General, which cer-
tainly does seem the safest thing to do un-
der the circumstances. The resolution is
as follows:
	First—Under and by virtue of the foregoing
provision of the enabling act, and the proposed
constitution are women, who are citizens of the
United States, over the age of twenty-one years,
and who have resisted in the territory for one
year next prior to November 5, 1895, entitled to 
resignation?
	Second—Can women possessing the qualifica-
tions set forth in the foregoing be legally en-
titled to vote upon the question of the adoption,
or rejection of the proposed constitution at the
November election, A D 1895?
	Third—At the November election to be held
in 1895 as above stated, can women possessing
the qualifications set forth in question No. 1
legally vote for the state offices provided for in
the proposed constitution?
	The resolution was laid over until an-
other meeting. 
	It seems too bad to lay the matter over;
there certainly ought to be some positive
authority for, or against the proposition.
To vote or not to vote seems to be the vital
question for women at the present time. 
	The suffrage has been conferred upon 
the women of the territory by the delegates
duly elected to the Constitutional Conven-
tion while assemble, and it does seem as 
though the right of suffrage ought to be
exercised by them in having a voice and a 
vote as to the officers who shall govern
and control affairs in the new state. It will
make a very great difference in many re-
spects if women are to be excluded from
this first election.

[Column 2]
	The women of this commonwealth are by
every possible right of citizenship entitled
to fair representation in public affairs.
They have borne heroically their share (and
the largest share too) of the hardships and
burdens of colonizing. Wherever men
have gone to open up new fields, and found
new settlements women have gone with
them, with their little children, exposed to
the same dangers from sun and heat, or 
cold and storms of all kinds, from savage
Indians, from wild animals, from snakes
and reptiles, living in tents and wagons,
with scarcity of food and clothing in many
instances, performing all the labors of the
household, bearing and nursing and rearing
children, and many of these women, scores
and scores of them have taken the wool
from the sheep, carded, spun and wove it,
and afterwards cut and made into wearing
apparel the cloth their own hands had pre-
pared for the family use, knit the stockings
mittens, etc., for every member of the
household. Who but the mother knows,
realizes or appreciates what women have
suffered who have gone into a new and un-
civilized country?
	This is not only true of Utah and the 
West, it is also true of our Pilgrim mothers
and of the early settlers of other lands. 
	The pioneer mothers of Utah have not
sat idly down with folded hands, but they
have labored with hand and brain, and
helped to make the land beautiful, and in
all the prosperity which has or will come,
they should be partakers of the benefits and
results, and share in all the privileges. The
sons of such mothers can well afford to grant
equal suffrage to women, and in the near
future when Utah receives her crown of
statehood, and women have equal part,
women will not be forgetful of the advan-
tages it will bring, nor shirk the responsi-
bility of the duties which attend upon this
high privilege. 
	There are many positions in the gift of
the people suitable for women to occupy
and which they could fill with honor and 
credit, and men need not be afraid there
will be no room for them, because there are
vast tracts of land still uncultivated to be
made fertile and beautiful for habitations,
and while earth yields grain and fruits the
sower must go forth to sow, and the reaper
to reap, and women will be sure to come to
glean, following close upon their track, for
the immutable law of Jehovah will ever re-
main in force, consequently there is no need
to fear, for men and women will work side
by side better when all conditions are equal,
and the generations to come will be better
adapted to a higher civilization than those 
that were born under the old regime of
man's political supremacy and woman's
subjection.
	But as to the subject under consideration
shall the women of Utah vote in November,
it is devoutly to be wished, that the matter
will soon be settled by proper authority so
that there may be safety, and the new state
not endangered by any one attempting
what is not legal. And as to the laws reg-
ulating voters, the fact of naturalization is
an important one and should not be neg-
lected by foreign-born women. It must be
remembered that women are to vote in the 
new state upon the same platform as men,
consequently every woman who registers 
and votes must be a native born or natural-
ized citizen of the United States. Formerly
when the franchise was exercised by the
women of this territory many women took

[Column 3]
out their naturalization papers, but of late
years we have not noticed that such has
been the case, though men have been ad-
mitted to citizenship right along. There
should be no delay in this matter, it is of
vital importance but set about it directly
and see to it that you have everything done
legally, remember one vote counts the same
as another, high or low, rich or poor.


OLD FOLKS ANNUAL EXCURSION.

	On Thursday the 11th inst., the old
folks of Salt Lake City and county made
the trip to Pleasant Grove in Union Pacific
cars kindly provided by the company for
this happy occasion. It has become a reg-
ular custom now that the “old folks” over
seventy should go somewhere every sum-
mer for an “outing” and a good time.
This is their first visit to Pleasant Grove
and it seems to have been one of the most
pleasant of all the pleasure trips the party
has ever taken. The morning was lovely
after the rain of the previous evening and
the old people were astir early, and so were
the committee who are indefatigable in
their labors to make every thing comfortable
and enjoyable for these aged veterans, who
have come to think of this excursion as a
settled thing, and to expect it and look lor-
ward with a sort of eagerness for the day to
come, from the time their last trip was
taken. To them it is indeed a festive oc-
casion, and they always look so happy,
their faces beaming with smiles.
	It is a beautiful thing to pay respect and
honor to the aged, who have borne the
burden and heat of the day and at eventide
are waiting the summons that comes to all
sooner or later. To minister comfort, to
add some little to the lonely lives of those
who are bereft of friends, and who need
heart sympathy, to greet them with smiles
and kind words which sometimes mean so
much to those whose lines have not been
cast in pleasant places, is commendable and
will certainly return to bless those who
bless.
	This Old Folks Committee and Old Folks
Choir have made quite a “hit” in the part
they have acted year after year in honoring
the veterans. It is a worthy example to
set and one which might be followed by
others if not in the self-same way, in reach-
ing forth a helping hand to the veterans
who have wrought out for their prosperity
many blessings, and made the lives of the
present generation richer, fuller, and more
complete, because of their arduous labors
and heroic self sacrifice.
	The cars containing the precious frieght
of many human souls sped gaily out of the
U. P. depot, at 8 o’clock a. m. There
were many red badges for those over
seventy, quite a number of blue ones for
eighty, and a few white ones for ninety.
Crowds of people were at the depot to see
the train pull out, and once fairly started
Bro. Wm. Foster with the Choir merrily
sang “All Aboard,” to the great delight of
the veterans; afterwards several selections
were given, the choir as is their usual way
going from one car to another.
	The train reached its designation at 10:25
and the party were most heartily welcomed
by the Pleasant Grove people, a brass
band in attendance, the Sunday School
children in line, the whole making an at-
tractive picture. The grove which is a fine


[Column 1]
one was prepared with everything needful
for the comfort of the visitors; and at the
entrance over the archway was the inscrip-
tion “Welcome and Honor to the Aged.”
There was a full committee of citizens to
attend to all the details, and young ladies to
serve the refreshments. On the platform
besides the committee of Salt Lake and
Pleasant Grove were a number of leading
cittzens of Salt Lake and Utah counties and
Apostles Brigham Young, John Henry
Smith, F. M. Lyman and H. J. Grant,
also Elders J. G. Kimball, Jos. E. Taylor,
C. W. Penrose, W. N. Dusenbury and
Mayor Bullock of Pleasant Grove and the
pioneers John Brown and Henson Walker;
many came from adjacent settlements and
the attendance as a whole was very numer-
ous; There were 1,200 over seventy, from
Salt Lake Co. alone, besides those from
Utah CO.
	The exercises of the day began by the
Old Folks choir singing “Auld Lang
Syne.” Apostle F. M. Lyman offered
prayer, the choir sang “We Shall Know,”
and Mayor Bullock delivered the address of
Welcome, after which a bounteous repast
was served in excellent style to all in the
grove, and greetings and conversation of
other days followed which is always a sig-
nificent feature of old folks pienies.
	A call for all over ninety years of age to
come to the platform was responded to by
several and it was found later on that there
were present eight persons over ninety.
Mrs. Margaret Ploutz ninety-five, who was
at Haun’s Mill‘ Mrs. Jennette Aird ninety-
six, Mrs. Sarah Free ninety-five, Mrs.
Sprague ninety-two, widow of Dr. Sprague
so well known in Utah in the early days;
Litus Davis ninety, Nancy Norrell ninety,
Mary Argent ninety-two.
	While the crowd were coming together,
the Lehi band played and the Old Folks
sang the favorite hymn composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “O My Father.” Elder
George Goddard came to the front and was
received with great applause, he stated
that Bro. C. R. Savage had originated the
movement of giving the old folks an annual
excursion, which has now been continued
twenty years. Bro. Goddard in his char-
acteristic way asked all to stand who were
with the first excursion twenty years be-
fore, and about thirty-five rose in response.
Bro. Goddard is a great favorite on these
occasions as well as in all Sunday School
movements. The Lehi band discoursed
sweet music and Apostle Brigham Young
spoke briefly to the veteran fathers and
mothers in Israel. Agnes Olsen Thomas
in sweet voice sang “Away Down on the
Swanee River.” Apostle F. M. Lyman
made a few telling remarks and stated his
belief that the old folks were increasing,
thought that “those who passed away
should be able to carry good news to the
other side and tell them how we loved and
cherished the old folks.” He believed Utah
would become remarkable for love and re-
spect to the aged. A duet was flnely ren-
dered by Misses Frampton and Swenson of
Pleasant Grove. Patriarch John Brown
contrasted the present situation with that
of 1847, when he came here with the
pioneers. At the close of this pleasant
gathering, Doxology was sung and the
benediction pronounced by Elder Jos. E.
Taylor. It is quite remarkable that these
excursions always end happily, nothing of
a serious nature ever having occurred to
mar the trannquility of the aged people, for

[Column 2]
which all feel gratitude to God for his pre-
serving care over these veterans. Great
credit is due also to the very efficient man-
agement of the able committee who never
weary of this delightful undertaking.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	Allow me to ask, are not these the days
our Savior foretold should come, when He
said “In the last days the Lord will pour
out His Spirit upon all flesh.”
	Can we fail to realize this to be even so,
when we see how it has enlivened and
quickened the understanding of many, who
were endowed with faculties to understand
readily some one of the many sciences; for
instance, such as the power of steam, and
how to govern and control it to advantage;
also electricity which is another powerful
agent and needs great skill to use it safely,
and then what wonders may be performed
in bringing messages. Only think of speak-
ing by telephone to a friend forty miles or
more away, and can hear so distinctly you
can tell if it is a man or woman who is
speaking to you, and hear all they say; and
only since 1844 when the first telegram was
sent from Baltimore to Washington. Now
it is sent by cable across the ocean so quick-
ly that the death of the Czar of Russia was
here in the papers the next day, the 2nd of
Nov. and he died on the 1st of Nov. And
only think, the first steamship crossed the
ocean in 1819, not quite 77 years ago, and
will now go in eight days, or less, a distance
which took a sailing vessel 2 to 3 months to
get there. Nor are these all the wonderful
feats that have been performed in 77 years,
about the time when I first saw the light of
day, but now even at this time of life, I am
captivated and delighted by science.
	Especially by our sewing machines
which prove such a blessing, and were first
in operation in 1841, only 54 years ago.
	Then our photographs since that time I
think, yet take our shadow so accurately it
is indeed charming; besides this farming
machinery so quickly done, that one man
will do the work of five men, all is speed,
speed, until one is nearly bewildered.
	Would it not be well to stop and think,
who gave us every faculty of mind and
body we possess? and who will call us to an
account when our probation here is ended
on this earth, for to die is one of the laws
of nature, and we must go when Father
calls us home. Now it is written “God is
a spirit, and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth, and knowing
as He did, the danger we would be in at
this time when pomp and a grand display
of what the human family can do, was
uppermost in the mind of all. He has a
sacred record hid up for this fast age, a
time of great danger to the thoughtless and
simple who know not God and care less
perhaps.
	This record is a guide the same as the
mariner’s compass is to the sailor on the
ocean, showing us the upward and onward
course is the right one to save us from de-
struction. It is called the Book of Mormon,
the name of the one who has charge of the
record. Was not this record preserved for
the express purpose of teaching this genera-
tion how to prepare to meet their Lord and
King? I think so. We plainly see while
reading this history that those who love

[Column 2]
God with all their might, mind and
strength are never forgotten by Him. No
indeed, they have the same care that a
tender parent has over a loving child.
	In the First Book of Nephi, fourth verse,
he tells us, “In the beginning of the reign
of Zedekiah king of Judah many prophets
called on the people to repent or the great
city Jerusalem would be destroyed. There-
fore his father Lehi prayed earnestly to the
Lord in behalf of his people, and as he
prayed there came a pillar of fire, and
dwelt upon a rock before him, and he saw
and heard much, and because of the things
that he saw and heard, he did quake and
tremble exceedingly. Then returned to
his own house at Jerusalem and cast him-
self npon his bed being overcome by that
which he saw and heard.”
	But the Jews did mock him and would
not believe there was any danger of de-
struction. After this the Lord appeared to
him in a dream, blessing him and telling
him to take his family into the wilderness
and leave Jerusalem for it is to be destroyed.
He did so; then comes a history of his
travels and afflictions yet not so great as
those who were destroyed in the great
city.
	Please read the book and behold what
choice blessings were given to Nephi who
believed all his father had spoken, then had
the same sight himself. Then he was taught
to build a ship and take his family to a
choice land, where prosperity attended their
efforts even as he was told, saying, “If ye
will keep my commandments ye shall pros-
per in the land.” We find this promise
often repeated in this book, and never to
fail when strictly keeping the command-
ments of God our Father.
	I greatly admire the history of King Ben-
jamin as given in this book. While talking
to his people he said. “I say unto you, as
I have been suffered to spend my days in
your service, even up to this time and have
not sought gold nor silver or any manner
of riches of you. Neither have I suffered
you should be confined in dungeons, nor
that ye should make slaves of one another,
or that ye should murder, or plunder, or
steal, or commit adultery or do any man-
ner of wickedness. Bu[-] have taught you
to keep the commandments of the Lord in
all things, and even I myself have labored
with mine own hands, that I might serve
you, and that you should not be laden with
taxes and that nothing grievous should
come upon you, as ye yourselves are wit-
ness this day. Yet I do not say these things
to boast. Neither do I tell it to accuse you,
but I tell it, that ye may know that I can
answer a good conscience before God this
day. I do not desire to boast, for I have
only been in the service of God. And be-
hold, I tell it that ye may learn wisdom,
and learn when ye are in the service of
your fellow beings, ye are only in the ser-
vice of God. Book of Mosiah, 2nd chapter.
	Now I would ask, where do we find rulers
of this kind today. Yet such men must
rule and reign again, before Jesus comes to
reign. He must find a righteous people
when He comes again to earth.
	Is not this reasonable to suppose? Do
not we learn from this book the importance
of being a righteous people if we would
prosper in this land?
	We also learn from holy Writ, the
Bible, there are times and seasons for every
purpose under the sun. As you remember


[Column 1]
the angel Moroni told Joseph, when he first
saw the plates, he said, “It is not time yet
for four years to take these plates. But
meet me here once a year until the time ar-
rives.” This the prophet did and was thus
prepared for that which followed, even that
success would only follow where faithful-
ness was found, with an earnest zeal to do
right, for right, wrongs no one, you know.
	This is our firm belief, having proved it
to be even so. My first experience was at
Nauvoo, when we were driven out leaving
all our possessions behind us. Now I
would ask were we driven because we were
more righteous than they?
	No not exactly; we were trying to keep
the laws of God but were not perfect in our
lessons, accordingly our chastisement re-
sulted in our good, as it always does when
we acknowledge the hand of God in it, as
Job did in his affliction, when his wife said
curse God and die. But Job said, thou
speakest as one of the foolish women; has
He not a right to chastise as well as to bless?
	Did not Joseph our prophet teach us,
“That God is angry with none, excepting
those who will not acknowledge the hand
of God in all things?” And we always find
when we will do this there is truly a bless-
ing awaiting us.
	This we find again when a revelation was
given to Prest. B. Young on the west bank
of the Missouri River near Council Bluffs,
1847, concerning the camp of Israel in their
journeyings West. This shows they must
be organized in companies with a covenant
and promise to keep all the commandments
and statutes of the Lord our God, and the
blessing of this journey will never be for-
gotten by those who were in this company.
His words being like those of King Ben-
jamen to his people. Even that they should
be a righteous people in keeping the com-
mands God has given, acting uprightly and
just in every instance, each one bearing
their own burthens according to the abilities
God had given us, and then lend a helping
hand to the needy in times of accident or
affliction.
	This was faithfully observed, as I am a
witness, and prosperity attended our efforts
daily. Thanksgiving and songs of praise
were offered daily until we arrived safely in
the valley, nor was it forgotten after our
arrival here in 1847.
	This course was followed for ten years
prosperity attending our efforts, until we
were provided with nice comfortable homes,
good gardens and orchards, etc.
	Then we were threatened with destruction
by an army of 10,000 men, but the Lord
heard our prayers and we were saved by his
powerful hand; and why? Were we begin-
ning to become proud of our success?
	Inasmuch as this was the case surely this
army came in time to awaken us to a sense
of our duty to God, making us feel our de-
pendence upon Him.
	This precious record the Book of Mormon
shows us the danger of pride, telling us of a
people who lived in rightousness for four
generations, then pride made its appearance
which produced envy, hatred and malice,
then followed by war, until that people were
swept from the earth and became extinct;
and had it not been for twenty-four gold
plates found by the people of Lemhi, we
should have known nothing of this people
today. Here we learn a lesson from this
book, what power the tempter has upon a
proud people.
	This book warns us again and again to

[Column 2]
beware of pride. Is not this a valuable
book, and agrees with Holy writ, the Bible
which says "Pride comes before destruction
and a haughty spirit before a fall." Let us
then beware of pride, is the desire of,
ZION'S CONVERT.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 23rd, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS ANTHONY AND MISS SHAW.

[Extracts from California Notes.]

	"Anna Shaw captured the town." Busi-
ness men of notoriously conservative views,
who came to sneer, remained to applaud
her witty utterances, and came, and came
again. Yea, verily, Anna Howard Shaw,
we need thee, and must have thee to stump
the State for the campaign.
	The universal appreciation of Miss Shaw,
the honors tendered to her and dear "Aunt
Susan" in the shape of a banquet by the
Unitarian Club (consisting of prominent
and influential male citizens), and the offi-
cial action of the Board of Education in
ordering the schools closed at noon in order
to enable the teachers to hear Miss Anthony
(an unprecedented and most noteworthy
event in the history of the movement, in
my humble opinion), show that we are not
so unenlightened, after all; and when in ad-
dition Miss Anthony has done us the honor
to declare publicly that the papers of our
Pacific Coast women were equal if not su-
perior to any she had ever listened to, we
have reason to feel proud of our success,
and to hope that we may be permanently
delivered out of the slough of unenlighten-
ment by the triumph of our suffrage amend-
ment next fall.
	For which the petitioners do humbly
pray!
	These friends came to San Jose immedi-
ately after making the Joachinite trip.
Common mortals, in like conditions, pray
only to be let alone till sleep and solitude
bring recuperation; but this notable pair of
strong-minded individuals appeared quite
unconscious of fatigue at the reception Sat-
urday evening, June 8, to which Mrs.
Goodrich issued a general invitation through
the daily papers. On Sunday, the 9th,
Miss Shaw preached in the Santa Clara M.
E. Church in the morning, and in San Jose
at 3:30 p. m., in the First M. E. Church,
the largest Protestant church in the city, to
an immense audience, many staying during
the entire service, while hundreds were un-
able to get in. Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress in the evening to a crowded house in
the Unitarian Church, from which it is
readily to be seen that Sunday was not a
day of rest for our visitors; but all the same
they met their engagement at the State
Normal School at 8:40 Monday morning,
and were in happiest vein as they spoke to
that concourse of seven hundred prospective
teachers. It was beautiful to note the quick
response accorded by the youthful audience
to the speakers' good points. One can not
but be hopeful that seed sown in such cul-
tivated soil must bring forth abundantly.
After the speeches, the pupils rendered the
"Star Spangled Banner" and other patriotic
songs in fine voice and form, thus bringing
to a fitting close a most inspiring hour.


MRS. EMMA SMITH DEVOE has been
doing really remarkable work as an organizer
and raiser of equal rights funds in the West.


MRS. DIGGS OF KANSAS.

[Synopsis of address, National Convention
of Women, Washington, D. C.]

	It is a long way from the gorilla to the
gentleman. It is a long, long way from
the primal government to the republic.
	That persistent energy in nature which
has compelled a continuous though undula-
ting development of man and his govern-
ments has at last brought the civilized world
to a consensus of belief that a republic, a
democracy, a State in which the need and
the desires of the people constitute the
code of conduct is the best, the wisest and
the enduring form of government. Along
the way of progress from the gorilla to the
gentleman, and from the tribal to the re-
public, enough data have been gathered to
warrant the scientific declaration that all
active, productive, enduring life is dual.
Each rounded unit of life is made up of
hemispheres, each having separate functions,
each having distinctive work to do. In the
human duality it is a man’s part in the
work of life to clear the way, to overcome
obstacles and to lay foundations. It belongs
to man with his strong right arm to do
pioneering of every sort. To the other half
of the human duality belongs the later work;
woman’s work is supplemental. Woman
continues and completes the edifice of which
man has laid the foundation. At the heart
of that much-bemouthed phrase, “The
home is woman’s sphere,” lies the whole
great truth. It is woman’s part to make
and mold the home.
	The heaven of all human longing, the
canopy and shield of human life and human
endeavor, the school of human character,
the educator and conservator of social order,
the very bulwark and the vital breath of
human government is the wise, pure, sweet
home. Without the light that gleams from
wholesome hearthfires social order gropes
and fails. Without the character bred in
homes, there can be no true citizenship.
Without the home there can be no republic.
	What must a republic be that it shall
abide and endure? A republic can but be
the aggregation of its smaller epitomes—the
homes which evolve the character of its in-
dividual factors. A republic must be the
reflector of all social life. Its soul and its
essence, its vital breath must partake of the
nature of full-orbed human life. It must be
made up of the dual parts which, united,
constitute a home atmosphere, home con-
ditions, and safe, sweet home environments.
	Man alone cannot create and maintain
such a republic any more than he can create
and complete a home. It is not that man is
not “as good,” as just and as wise as wo-
men in his way; they simply have their
part in life to play, and it is not man’s part.
A woman’s republic might be just like a
man’s republic, but it would be
no nearer a real republic; it would violate
nature’s laws just the same it
would not have the same faults, but it
would have fatal faults just the same.
	For 6,000 years, and who knows how
much longer, men have been pioneering
along with governments, clearing the ob-
stacles, paving the way for the republic.
For a hundred years have men been play-
ing republic on North American soil. For
a sturdy, striving century man—the human
demi-sphere—has been trying in this re-
public to do the whole work of a full hu-
man orb. Not content with his natural


part of the work, foundation building, man
has been laboriously, not to whisper ludi-
crously, trying to do the work of his other
human half. He has been piling founda-
tion stones up to the height of the dome
and has called his work a complete edifice.
Dead failure. Proof, vide “Congressional
Record,” February 14, 1895, page 2415,
Hon. J. Proctor Knott’s letter. True,
every word of it.

		THE END OF HIS ROPE.
	With the boundless resources of a glorious
contingent, man alone, where God said it
was not good for him to be, has brought
this republic to to its present stress. Man
has done his work as well as in his nature
he knew how to do it, but he is now at his
wit’s end; he has reached the end of his
rope. Oh, we have had a republic which
has been splendidly fathered, but it hasn’t
been mothered, and that’s what’s the mat-
ter with it to-day.
	Nature’s fundamental law has been set
aside. The inexorable law of the Almighty
has been abrogated. One of the two fac-
tors which should have been employed, has
been unused. Man’s work has been done,
woman’s work left undone. We are suf-
fering the penalty of outraged natural law.
God put men and women in the same world
together that they conjointly might work
out a high and holy outcome here on earth.
	Had the God of the universe intended
that men should work alone in a republic he
would probably have placed him on this
earth a full-orbed sufficiency and women
would have been placed on some other
planet.
	We shall not have a full-orbed, enduring
republic until we have woman nature ex-
pressed actively, intelligently, forcibly at
the ballot box. Then, in time, not in a day
or year, it was a long way from the gorilla
to the gentleman, woman as the conservator
of human life, will impress her nature on
the republic. Woman’s part in the repub-
lic will be on the Ways and Means com-
mittee, to sustain and provide for human
life. This committee will supersede the
committee on War and Navy appropriations.
Woman will provide for life, and man will
no more provide for death, via cannon, shot
and shell. With woman’s advent in the
republic the glory of the bayonet here will
pale, woman will transfer that halo to the
brow of moral heroes.
	To make home conditions for each and
every child born in the republic, to place
the republic upon the safe, sure foundation
of healthy, happy homes, to shatter the
shackles of industrial slaves, to set the
wheels spinning on toward that good time
when the constant strife for shelter and
bread shall not dwarf the soul, to uplift to
a plane that shall permit the uufoldment of
all that is sweetest, truest and  best in the
lives of the children of God, this is woman's
part in the republic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REV. JEANETTE OLMSTEAD, of Gusta-
vus, O., and Rev. Arthu Ferris, of Scran-
ton, Pa., were married on June 12th, at the
residence of Drs. V. L. and E. T. Gilchrist,
Ashtabnla, O. Both bride and groom are pas-
tors of Congregational churches. They were
married by Rev. S. B. Hershey, pastor of
the local Congregational church. Miss Olm-
stead has preached acceptably for three years
at Gustavus, and has been active in suffrage
and temperance work.—Ex.


THE EVOLUTION OF SUFFRAGE.
BY ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.
	The theory that “manhood suffrage” is
based on manhood strength,” and that every
voter must be a possible soldier is a very
plausible theory and commands careful con-
sideration, owing to the brilliant array of
names pledged to its support. One must
face this hypothesis as Copernicus con-
fronted the popular belief that the earth is
a stationary monarch, around which the
obsequious sun revolves as a satellite.
What may be called the “physical force
theory” of government, is a fallacy as im-
mensely widespread, as profoundly rooted
in popular prejudice, and as strongly main-
tained by those whose religious and politi-
cal systems depend upon it, as was the
Ptolemaic system of the universe.
	But fallacies are doomed to fail, and this
one is no exception to the rule. It is an
easily exploded error. The fine art of
critical examination of history is still in its
merest infancy. Modern man has taken a
superficial survey of the records of the past;
he has noticed that warriors have played an
important and conspicuous part in society’s
business, that warriors are chiefly of the
male sex, that, in Christendom, men both
vote and fight, and that, in Christendom,
women neither vote nor fight, and he has
jumped to the conclusion that voting is a
privilege born of fighting. Hence, the
women who credulously accept such state-
ment of facts and hasty conclusion, perse-
veringly argue that government is upheld
by physical force, and, consequently, “weak
woman” can have no part in it.
	Now, I believe that every fair-minded,
dispassionate person, who seeks, not to
prove herself on the winning side, but
simply to become a discoverer of truth,
may easily herself detect the falsity of such
theory of government. In the first place,
the very meaning of the word refutes such
an hypothesis; in the second, all human
history gives it denial in the third, every
family’s government demonstrates that
brute compulsion is a failuse and, in the
fourth place, each individual knows that it
is neither physical force nor the threat or
fear of physical force which governs her
actions. To govern is merely “to guide.”
In its essence, it is a purely voluntary ac-
ceptance of a leader, by one or by many,
whose affectionate trust is given to the per-
son or persons who seem to the governed to
be naturally fiitted for governing. As soon
as government passes out of this mutual
willingness between governors and gov-
erned it becomes war, and war is pure
chaos, so far as the objects of government
are concerned. The only good thing which
the human race has ever gained through
war is its present horror and detestation of
war. It has cost us millions of precious
lives, rivers of blood and mountains of
woes heaped upon woe, to purchase the
lesson that everything attempted by methods
of war may be more quickly, economically,
sensibly and happily won by the use of
reason.
	The Declaration of Rights, published by
our Continental Congress in 1774, affirms
that “The foundation of all free govern-
ment is a right in the people to participate
in their legislative council.” To this, the
Declaration of Independence,in 1776, added
the affirmation that no government is just
unless it derives its powers from the con-
sent of the governed and, when the time
came to publish our national Constitution,
its corner-stone proclaimed that “We, the
people of the United States,” found our
government upon justice, justice having
been previously defined in the principles
announced in the two declarations above
referred to.
	It is true that those principles, established
for us by a few lofty souls, were imperfectly
understood by the masses, while all the
powers and principalities of despotism
among us had a selfish motive for resisting
them to the bitter end. Behind us lay
thousands of years of despotic rule, which
had generated increasing arrogance, pride
and greed for power among those privileged
to wield authority over their fellows, and
which had ingrained habits of servility,
weakness and timidity among those sub-
jected to authority. On the side of the
ruling class reigned utter contempt for the
capacity of “the people” they were al-
luded to, even by historians,as “the scum,”
and it was deemed impossible to improve
their condition. Beside this general con-
tempt among the “nobility” for the masses
special class contempt prevailed wherever
one class held legal power over another.1
The clergy ruled the laity despotically, and
disdained to give them any voice in such
government; husbands ruled wives, simi-
larly, and all men similarly made and tried
to enforce laws upon all women.
	When our ancestors openly and solemnly
repudiated every form of government based
on a pretendedly “divine right,” and an-
nounced that, henceforward, we as a people,
would accept no right of government, save
self-government, the long battle between
Might and Right began. Far from won-
dering that it took seventy-four years to
eliminate human slavery from among a
people professing our principles, and that
Article 1 of our Constitutional Amend-
ments is still neither put in practice nor
even understood, and that the male people
are still so stupid as not to see they have no
just right to rule female people without
their ballot-given consent, we ought to
congratulate ourselves that the just cause
of self-government has made even such
progress as it has, in face of the tremen-
dous opposition, waged during the past
hundred and twenty years by despotisms of
every kind. Every inch of advance along
the line of true self-government by the
people, has been won at the cost of perse-
verance unto death, against terrible odd.
	The prophets of evil (the Cassandras of
conservatism) began immediately to fill the
air with clamorous protests against every
measure proposed in the interests of freedom
for the people. Vested Privilege shrieked
that religion would disappear and morality
decay, unless an established church were
given power by the State to compel the
people to accept dogmas—and to pay tithes.
Vested Privilege screamed that civilization
would die if slaves were not forced to the
drudgery that masters hated, and kept in
obedience by fear of blood-hounds and the
crack of a whip. And now Vested Privilege
is again howling that the family will disin-
tegrate and the home tumble into ruins; if
man should publicly recognize woman as
entitled to a vote in her government!
	O, ye of little faith! If you cannot be-
lieve that fidelity to just principles will pro-
duce good fruit, look at the demonstration
which all past human history affords of
this truth. By actual example it is proven


that, true civilization grows only as liberty,
and self-government grows that true re-
ligion flourishes and morality is pure only
where all are equally free; and that the
noblest specimens of both family and State
are found only when and where women
are least subjected to men, and are strug-
gling to uphold their right to perform their
duty as responsible citizens. Politics is
simply the joint business of those who con-
stitute the state. It is because the State is
but an expanded family that its interests
suffer, and must suffer, when the feminine
members of the expanded family close their
eyes, ears, heart and mind to the evils
arising through their own selfish apathy to-
ward the common weal.
	Over and over again history teaches this
lesson:—the same rule that makes for the
righteousness and prosperity of a family,
makes for the good of the State. Where
equity is established for all where all are
nterested, actively, in the happiness of all
where each allows the other the liberty
each prizes for him or for herself where
all are unselfishly willing to take turn in
serving as guides to those who want direc-
tion, but where no one strives to dominate
others by force,—there the conditions are
perfect for the highest human develop-
ment of both family and State.
	Whatever superficial readers of the past
may assert, every profound student of
history wilt find that no people on the face
of the earth ever rose to its “highest
civilization,” in “periods when women
were the slaves of men, when children were
the property of parents, when infanticide
was universal, when labor was despised,
and when there were no 'rights' natural,
or acquired, except for the warrior and the
patrician.”
	What is “civilization?” It is a social
condition based wholly on a life which is
opposed to militancy.
	To be civil is to be kind, gentle, courteous,
considerate of others, rendering unto them
the justice we wish them to give to our-
selves. Civilization is the state of being
refined in manners and of being free from 
the grossness of savage life.


32    			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Relief Society Organized.
West Layton, July 12th.
	Editor Women’s Exponent:—Thinking
that it might be of some interest for you to
know that on the 13th of June, President
Susan Grant of the Davis Stake with her
counselors, also of the Stake Presidency
Hiram Grant and Joseph Clark organized
a Relief Society with the following named
officers:
	Mrs. Virginia F. Major, President; Mrs.
Emma Corbridge, First Counselor; Mrs.
Mary A. Egbert, Second Counselor; Mrs.
Antinett Dibble, Treasurer, and Mrs. Mary
Roberts, Secretary,
	Wishing you success, I remain yours truly,
							V. F. Major.


MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, in her recent
report as National Superintendent of Peace
and Arbitration work in the W. C. T. U.,
quotes Victor Hugo’s prediction that war-
fare would cease in the twentieth centnry,
and adds: “It will not be long ere the peo-
ple of the world will regard the wars of the
present day with the same feelings as we
now regard the gladiatorial combats and
other barbarities of former ages.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS E.U. Yates sailed for England
early in June and will be gone until Sep-
tember.
	THE University of Chicago is about to
publish a bi-monthly, called the American
Journal of Sociology. Professor Albion W.
Small, assisted by the faculty of the social
science department, will have charge.	
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET was re-elected
president of the British Woman’s Temper-
ance Union. Lady Somerset and Miss
Willard have both conditionally accepted
invitations to speak before the fifth meeting
of the great Anti-alcohol Congress, to be
held in Basle, Switzerland, August 20-22.
	Two women of Cripple Creek, Colorado,
were recently called to act on a jury in a
case where a woman was defendant. The
fact that the mixed jury were only out
five minutes when they brought in a ver-
dict of guilty shows that the presence of
women in the jury box will not necessarily
delay matters or prevent justice being done.
	In Pennsylvania another of the noiseless
steps of progress toward’s woman’s enfran-
chisement has been taken. For the first
time the mothers of that State have this
week secured the equal costody and control
of their own children. Half a million
mothers have now, in the Keystone State,
a right still denied by our Legislature to
the women of Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Julia B. Nelson says: “Woman
does not want the earth, but neither will
she be satisfied with the use of a third of it;
she wants ‘the undivided half!’ Gentlemen
may cry ‘Peace! Peace!’ but there will be
no peace until she has a clear title to that
which her Heavenly Father bequeathed to
her. His last will and testament has been
set aside through many dark ages, but she
now has the will in her possession, is able 
to read it, and bases her claim to joint title
in the ownership of the earth on that sec-
tion of the will found in the first chapter of
Genesis 26-28 inclusive.’’
	The Union Signal will revert to a cus-
tom of former years, and omit two issues in
midsummer. The last issue before the
holiday, July 11, will be the special world’s
W. C. T. U. number, containing full ac-
counts of the great London meeting and
the “doings” of the white ribbon party on
the continent. Then says the Union Sig-
nal:
	Editors, proof readers, compositors and every-
one connected with the paper will hie away on
the first train or boat to a cool, quiet spot, and
spend the two weeks conscientiously seeking re-
newed ability for their various arduous tasks.


MRS. HORNE’S VISIT TO IDAHO.

	Editor Exponent:—The summer visit of
Sister M. I. Horne to her daughter, Mrs.
George Spencer the past month, has been
made a source of interest and profit to the
Relief Society of this Stake.
	It was at the request of our worthy Pres-
dent, J. P. Lindsay, that our beloved Sis-
ter consented to hold two meetings in Paris,
which were well attended considering the
short notice given.
	Sister Lindsay made a few appropriate
remarks before introducing our Sister, who
was listened to with great attention. Sub-


jects presented were, the necessity of fully
sensing the responsibility that rested upon
us, and the obligations we were under as
Saints, and as members of this Church, in
order that we obtain the reward of the faith-
ful. The responsibility of motherhood in
training children. Observing the Sabbath
day. Spoke also upon the life and charac-
ter and teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The last named subject delivered
as it was by one personally acquainted
with the Prophet, though familiar as house-
hold words to President Lindsay and some
others in the congregation, was to all in-
tensely interesting and soul inspiring, and
calculated to strengthen our faith, confirm
our hopes and lead us onward.
	The question of Woman’s Suffrage
though not as familiar as the latter subject,
was listened to with the greatest attention
and interest, and has awakened thought
and reflection that cannot fail to produce
good results. It is a subject almost new to
many of our Sisters, and who have not
fully comprehended its importance, and the
powers and privileges the franchise would
be likely to confer; but being connected
with a young and progressive state, we
hope to fall in line with Wyoming, Colorado
and Utah in the Woman’s Suffrage
movement, and secure every advantage
that can be obtained by equality at the
ballot box, in the schools, colleges, and in
every way and place where woman’s in-
fluence can be expected to better her social
condition, and that of humanity in general.
Your Sister in the Gospel, L. M. Hart.
	BLOOMINGTON, Idaho, July 3, 1895.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.
R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
	Woman's Co-operative Inst'
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro. Stable


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights  of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

