VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1896. NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Zina D. H. Young—E. B. W. Anniversary
Party. In The Interest Of Health—Charles
Emerson. U. W. P. C.—E. R. Shipp. The
Third Star—Woman’s Tribune. Relief Society
Reports—Emmeline B. Wells. Extracts From
Mrs. C. M. Allen’s Letter. The Washington
Convention. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
Zina Hyde. Rejoicing At Huntsville. R. S.
Reports. Notes And News. Conference N. A.
W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Three Quarters Of A Century.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Mrs. Zina D. H. Young—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. In The City Of The Dead—
Lydia D. Alder.


[Column 1]
TO MRS ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

MUSIC and light and warmth tonight
	Greet thee with language manifold,
Where first thine eyes beheld this spot
	A desert, desolate and old;
No roof of art shielded thy head,
	Nor music—save the wild birds voice,
Night sank and darkness hung around
	Yet even then thou did’st rejoice.

For then, a Prophet’s voice proclaimed
	It chosen ground, where peace and rest
Should guard his people till they grew
	In strength, with homes and power possessed
’Twas solitude, yet fear ne’er came
	To break their slumbers; 'round them rose
The harvest yield to bless their need,
	Where long had reigned but waste and snows.

Though unforgotten, kindred, homes,
	And sorrows knit in blood and tears,
Faith wrought its daily steadfast task
	And gathered strength with passing years.
Though famine came, God heard their prayers
	And white winged flocks in answer sped;
They stayed the foe, and Israel
	Gathered the manna and the bread.

Within tbeir lowly cabin walls
	The mothers sang their cradle songs,
The years sped on, and ere they knew,
	Their scanty numbers swelled to throngs,
And these outspreading, woke to life
	The sleeping valleys by each stream,
O’er mountain ranges far away,
	Their growth, their blessings, like a dream.

Fair Utah cannot hold the tide
	Of human life that God so sent,
Thou hast beheld them on the Isles,
	They dot the farther continent;
And to and fro God’s messengers
	Bear forth His Gospel and return,
For this is Zion; all the earth
	Her wond’rous story yet shall learn.

From ev’ry Saint that dwelleth here,
	From Saints that long this land to see,
This Day is wafted heavenward
	Remembrances and prayers for thee.
From weary march and roofless camp
	Unto the Temples famed and grand,
Thy feet trod first the barrenness
	And to His houses lent thy hand.

And thou hast gained that higher gift
	That worldly wisdom cannot teach,
Tongues of the vanished speak to thee,
	Thine inner sight, beyond doth reach.

[Column 2]
Thou hast been mother unto more
	Than thine own children, and the name
“Mother in Israel" is thine own
	And all who love thee share a claim.

Linked with this dispensation is
	Thy hist’ry from its earliest date,
In ev’ry Temple thou hast wrought
	Salvation for the small and great.
O, souls redeemed in other spheres!
	If thou hast knowledge of this day,
Join in our love and praise of her
	Who led from prison world thy way.

May mightiest love from higher, life
	Blend with our love and prayers below,
And heavenly power attend thy days
	While still on earth thy face we know;
Still drawing nearer to the source
	Thy listening soul learn holier love,
Till—passing—memory keeps thy name
	In Earth and Heaven, forever more.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Jan. 22nd, 1896.


[Column 1]
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF HER LIFE AND
LABORS.
	ON the 31st day of January, yester-
day, Sister Zina D. H. Young reached
the age of seventy-five years. “Aunt
Zina,” as the Latter-day Saints love to call
her, was born January 31, 1821, in Water-
town, Jefferson county, New York, and
comes of goodly parentage. Her father
was William Huntington, her mother Zina
Baker, whose father was one of the first
physicians in New Hampshire. Her mater-
nal grandmother was Dorcas Dimock,
“descended from the noble family of Dim-
ocks whose representatives held the heredi-
tary knight-championship of England;
instance: (Sir Edward Dymock, Queen
Elizabeth’s champion).” Mrs Young’s father
served in the war of 1812; Samuel Hunting-
ton, one of the signers of the Declaration of
Independence, was the uncle of her grand-
father, Wm. Huntington, a revolutionary
soldier. The family were directly descend-
ed from Simon Huntington, the Puritan
emigrant, who sailed for America in 1633,
but died at sea leaving three sons and a
widow, who were registered in Roxbury,
Mass. Wm Huntington, the grandfather,
married Presendia Lathrop, and was one of
the first settlers in the Black River valley,
northern New York.
	The Hu[-]tingtons embraced the gospel at
Watertown, New York and Zina Diantha
was baptized by Patriarch Hyrum Smith
August 14, 1835, and soon after went to-
Kirtland with her father’s family. In Kirt-
land she received many blessings and mani-
festations, the gift of tongues, and of
interpretation; she heard an invisible choir
of angels singing in the Kirtland Temple,
and was present at the memorable Pentecost
when the spirit of God filled the Temple,
like a mighty rushing wind. Sister Zina
was a member of the Kirtland Temple choir.
	With her father’s family Sister Zina
passed through the terrible persecutions in
Missouri of which there is not time to tell.

[Column 2]
	Like many other exiles they succeeded in
reaching Commerce, afterwards called Nau-
voo, where the Saints suffered so much.
	At this place Sister Huntington, the mo-
ther, died, a martyr to suffering from the
mobbings and drivings.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina became a member
of the first Relief Society organization, little
dreaming what would be in the future, and
how great the work would become. When
the Nauvoo Temple was ready for ordinan-
ces she received her blessings and endow-
ments therein.
	She left Nauvoo with the Saints in the
month of February, 1846, with the first
company, crossing the Mississippi river on
the ice. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, where the
exiles stopped and made a resting place, her
father was taken sick and died. She re-
mained in Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river, until 1848, when she started for the
valley; beginning the journey in May,
reached the valley in September.
	When the Relief Society was established
in Utah, Sister Zina was chosen as treasurer
of the first society in the Eighteenth ward,
where she resided. Some years after, when
Sister Eliza R. Snow was called by Presi-
dent Brigham Young to assist in organiz-
ing in wards, Sister Zina was also called
by the President as Counselor to Sister Eliza,
and she was associated with her in the la-
bors of the Relief Society and traveled in its
interest during Sister Eliza’s lifetime.
	In the silk industry Sister Zina has been
indefatigable and zealous, laboring as no
other woman in this Territory has done, to
establish sericulture. she has raised co-
coons herself, and had charge of President
Young’s large cocoonery and mulberry
orchard. In June, 1876, when a silk
association was organized Sister Zina was
elected President, and she has traveled the
length and breadth of the Territory in its
interest.
	Sister Zina also took a course of medical
studies under Dr. Willard Richards in the
early days in the valley, and became familiar
with the practice among women, and has
given numerous lectures on the subject of
nursing, hygiene and other kindred topics.
	She has traveled as extensively among
the people and spoken as many times as any
other woman and perhaps even more. She
has a rare faculty of ministering to the sick
and sorrowing, and is often alluded to as
“Aunt Zina the Comforter;” having such
intense sympathy, added to the gift of heal-
ing, which she seems naturally to possess.
	Her presence in the sick room is always
soothing aud uplifting to the afflicted.
	Sister Zina is an inspirational impromptu
speaker; her speeches, in mass meetings a[-]d
and on various great occasions, have been
widely circulated by newspaper reporters.
	She holds her audience without an effort
by her natural eloquenoe.
	In 1879 she visited the Sandwich Islands.
During this trip she met many noted people.
The same fall she accompanied Sister Eliza
to St. George. There they labored in the
Temple, and among the sisters’organiza-
tions, held meetings, traveled over a thou-
sand miles, often camping out over night.


[Column 1]
In 1881 she visited relatives in New York
and Vermont and collected genealogical
records of her ancestry; and while away
often spoke in Sunday schools and temper-
ance meetings, and conversed with many
celebrated divines; attended the Woman’s
congress at Buffalo and a National Suffrage
Convention in New York city. Sister Zina
also assisted the Elders in organizing a
Relief Society at Cohoes, New York, dur-
ing that visit.
	In 1882, when the Deseret Hospital was
established, Sister Zina was chosen vice
president, and occupied the arduous position
for twelve years; the same year she attend-
ed the National Suffrage Convention in
Omaha, and visited relatives in St. Joseph,
Mo. At this convention she made the ac-
quaintance of several celebrated women,
May Wright Sewall, Phoebe Cousins, and
others, also Susan B. Anthony, whom she
had already met here on her first visit to
Utah in 1870, and afterwards in New
York. Sister Zina has continued her labors
among the people and in the house of the
Lord without ceasing year after year, and
thousands rise up and call her blessed. She
was for thirty years and even more, a dili-
gent Sunday school teacher.
	After the decease of Sister Eliza R. Snow
in December 1887, Sister Zina being her
first counselor, continued acting president
until April, 1888, when she was called by
President Wilford Woodruff and set apart
to preside over the Relief Society. In 1891,
the Relief Society became formally connect-
ed with the National Council of Women of
the United States, which entitles the presi-
dent to the position of vice-president in this
great council. In 1893, when the congress
of representative women from all the world
met in the Art Palace in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair, Mrs. Young was
present and had the privilege and the right
of taking part in the important proceedings.
She also held a meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety in one of the halls of the Art Palace,
which attracted much attention. At this
meeting Isabella Beecher Hooker, Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon and other celebrities were pre-
sent, and some of them requested the privi-
lege of speaking. On the Sunday follow-
ing at the services in the large hall, Mrs.
Young was seated upon the platform with
fourteen women ministers of different de-
nominations, conversing freely with them
after the service upon the principles of
our faith. She also attended the Congress of
Charities and Philanthropies, of which she is
vice-president. Mrs. Young’s labors have
been unceasing and though she has reached
such a great age, her usefulness is not dim-
nished, but increases as the field of her
labors widens out, and develops more and
more. Her entire time is given in the ser-
vice of the Lord, in the duties of her calling
in the Relief Society and to the ministra-
tions in the Temple, where she has been
called to preside over the sisters—a long and
a beautiful life, of which scarcely the bare
outlines are given here. Sister Zina is de-
cidedly, a woman of the people, beloved by
the Saints for her many excellent qualities,
her integrity to the Gospel and her abundant
charity.
	We have only spoken of Sister Zina here
as a public woman in the capacity of a
missionary laboring among the sisters, but
her home life has been equally exemplary
and successful. She is tender and motherly
in her nature, and though she has not had a
large family of her own (two sons and a

[Column 2]
daughter) she has several children who call
her mother, now grown to manhood and
womanhood, to whom she has given the
same loving attention as to her own, and
who love and reverence her in return as do
her own.
	Sister Zina became the wife of the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and after his
death was married to Brigham Young. It
is impossible to enter into details in a news-
paper article. Volumes might be written
of Sister Zina—her name has gone far and
wide, and she is known everywhere for her
good works; no woman in the Church is
better known or more highly respected, and
not only at home but abroad, she is appro-
priately designated a mother in Isreal, which
she is in very deed. E. B. W.


IC 6			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ANNIVERSARY PARTY.

	On the morning of Sept. 1st, 1895, the
Saints of Farr West and many of the
realitives and friends of our worthy Bishop
W. F. McEntire and his estimable wife
met to celebrate the sixtieth birthday, also
their fortieth wedding anniversary; the
ward clerk had the bishop very busily en-
gaged in looking over the ward records,
and his wife was busy preparing dinner as
she had invited her family and some friends
to take dinner with them. While this was
going on the crowd met and formed in line,
headed by the band, next the Relief Society
then relatives and friends and marched to
their residence, the band struck up a lively
air which aroused all in the house, the
Bishop opened the door to see what it
meant, threw up his hands and exclaimed,
“I’ll surrender.” After the shaking of
hands all proceeded to the hall, where two
tables were spread full length of the hall,
loaded with the bounties of life, then the
worthy couple were presented each with a
beautiful rocking chair; also a handsome
photograph album, and were then seated at
the head of the tables, after all were seated
Brother Peter Slater read an orginal poem
composed by himself very applicable for the
occasion.
	After lunch was over, a program was
rendered, first being music from the band,
Hon. D. H. Peery next addressed the as-
sembly, said he was happy to meet with so
many of his old friends and acquaintances
on this happy occasion, congratulated the
Bishop and his wife, spoke of his long ac-
quaintance with them, and of their many
good traits of character, thanked the sisters
for the good dinner, also thanked the band
for the excellent music Ex. Bishop, P.
G. Taylor of Harrisville, said God bless
you all, spoke many words of praise in be-
half of our bishop and wife and many
words of encouragement to all.
	Our bishop then responded, thanked all
very kindly, said we are all brothers and
sisters in very deed, "my whole heart and
soul is poured out toward all. May God
bless you,  amen.” Music by the band,
song by Lucinda Stephenson, “Shall we
gather at the river.” Recitation by Mrs.
Heber Holland, Brother Jacob Thomas
thanked all, and hoped we might have
many more snch occasions, it was indeed a
beautiful day as the sun was shining
brightly and all went off as bright and de-
lightful as the day.
	MARY A. STEPHENSON, Prest.
	MELINDA J. RAWSON, Sec.
Farr West Jan. 18, 1896.


IN THE INTEREST OF HEALTH.
From Woman's Tribune:– 
	HERE I send you another instance of
women being in advance of their brothers,
in care of the health of their families and the
public health.
	Several years since I was talking with a
business woman who, with her sisters, has
long conducted a millinery and also a dress-
making establishment. I had placed stress
upon the need of great care in the handling
of paper money, which passes through
"everybody’s" hands and wallets, and re-
marked that I frequently found it so objec-
tionable that I wrapped it in fine, clean
paper before placing it in my purse, and
added that it really needs disinfection. She
told me that for some years she had carbolic
acid in the till where the money is kept,
and thought they had really protected them-
selves from disease in this manner. Last
year I inquired of several bankers if they
used such precautions. Two of them re-
plied they had never done so, but the answer
from the last replying I send you.
	Dear Madam: Your note of the 19th inst.
is at hand. In reply, would say that we
have not made it a practice to disinfect
paper money or papers until recently. At
this time we consider the practice a protec-
tion to ourselves here in the bank and also
to the public at large. Respectfully yours,
	“CHARLES EMERSON, Ass’t Sec y.”
Cath. A. F. Stebbins, Detroit, Jan. 14, '96.


PERSONS sending twenty-cents to Harriet
Taylor Upton, at Hotel Arno, Washington,
D. C., will receive copies of the daily papers
for the week of the Convention.
MRS. DEBORAH REED, eighty-eight
yearsold,of Attleboro, Mass., voted “yes’’ on
the referendum. She writes to a grand-
niece in Oakland, Cal.: “It seems that
some women stand squarely in their own
light, and do not want their rights; so
those who do must wait awhile. Equal
suffrage will come sometime, though in the
not far distant future.”
THE social side of parliamentary life in
England, set forth by Mrs. Humphrey
Ward in her new novel in The Century,
“Sir George Tressady,” will be a revela-
tion to American readers. With the dinner
parties in Parliament Buildings and open-
air receptions on the Thames Embankment,
it presents a picturesque contrast to
American Congressional customs. 
QUEEN CHRISTINA of Spain has been
chosen arbitrator to settle a long standing
dispute over the boundary lines of Colum-
bia, Equador and Peru. This is the first
time in the history of the world that a wo-
man has been chosen to settle an inter-
national dispute. Her administration of
Spanish affairs has been characterized by
tact and statesman-like ability, controlled 
by high moral principle; and not the least
of her claims to admiration is the fact that
she has maintained peace in a country pro-
verbial for being in a state of constant un-
rest and turmoil. The peace, movement in
Europe has not yet evolved anything more
beautiful than the sentiment expressed by
Madame Potonie Pierre in the manifesto
sent by the French women to their sisters
of the German Peace Society: “The planet
is too small to permit of mankind destroy-
ing each other in any corner of it. — Wo-
man's voice.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN THE CITY OF THE DEAD.

A REVERIE.
I WALK in the darkening twilight,
	In the City of the Dead;
Whose streets so drear and silent,
	With autumn leaves are spread.
The wind is gently moaning,
	Dark clouds are overhead;
The sacred spot's deserted
	This City of the Dead.

I feel alone as I wander
	Tho' my loved sleep all around;
With trembling heart I view each spot,
	For this is holy ground.
I think of the trials and crosses
	That sadden the fairest life;
All now is peace and quiet:
	This is the end of strife.

So pensive I dream and wonder
	Where are the thousands now
Who sleep this sleep of silence,
	On the lonely hillside's brow?
Where are the broken-hearted
	Who wept on the lonely sod
When they laid away the loved ones
	When they bowed beneath the "Rod?"

Here in their turn they're resting,
	The young, the blithe, the gay,
And await the great redemption
	Of a Resurrection Day.
Here in God's great acre,
	Come the weary and distressed,
And in their turn are laid so low,
	Where none can mar their rest.

Here bitter tears are shed for them,
	We loved so long and dear;
The breast where laid our infant head,
	Our friends and kindred near.
Here manly youth and maiden fair,
	Are wrapped in death's embrace,
But the hearts that loved, for them cry yet,
	Time cannot grief efface.

Here too the babe whose days were few,
	Who came, then sighed and went,
A beauteous flower from Paradise
	To a sad, cold world was sent.
Just opening wide bright, wondering eyes,
	Where the light of angels shone;
Then sighing closed them gently down
	To gain a better home.

And here the aged come to rest,
	Here lay their bodies down;
For them no more is living sweet,
	Their hands reach for a crown.
They've lived a life of righteousness
	With prayer have sought their God,
And now at eve they go to rest,
	Beneath the grass grown sod.

Here in his prime the strong man lies,
	Here too the young wife's laid,
The cry of children oft goes up,
	From a mound that's newly made
Sad orphans roam the wide world o'er
	They cry for the loved in vain,
The throbbing hearts are silent now,
	They cannot beat again.

All ties are severed that ever bound;
	Death levels every one:
One tries in vain to bind them up,
	The work of man's undone.
The youth lives on, the bride is dead,
	The bride lives on the youth is gone;
The mother spent her life in vain,
	Here lies the little one.

And now to friendship drop a tear,
	For friends dwell here at last;
And like a day's forgetfulness,
	Seems the story of the past.

[Column 2]
O, aching heart. O, the throbbing brow,
	With weight of grief oppressed,
Come, view the spot where deep below
	The weary heart can rest.

Sleep on, sleep on the sleep of death,
	Ye folk of other days,
'Till Christ the Lord shall call you up
	To meet His Heavenly gaze.
O, hearts that grieve, O. hearts that mourn,
	The loss of loved ones dead,
Yet know "What life is to the living,"
	So "Death is to the dead."

They've crossed the river, the race they've won
	O, call them not again,
To a world of parting such as this
	Of sorrow and of pain.
For up and down the wide world o'er
	We hear the sad refrain,
Where is the world so fair and bright
	Where loved ones never part again?

A light thro' the long dark night is given,
	It anon flashes over the way,
O, pilgrim so weary of life's sad load,
	Press in 'tis Eternal Day—
There is rest for the weary ones at last
	Where never a tear is shed;
There's rest when the journey of life is past
	Among the silent dead.

All paths meet here, tho' wide they roam,
	Here is the place of rest,
And all sleep well the sleep of death,
	Like babe on mother's breast.
Thank God for the Gospel's joyful sound,
	Thank Him for a prophet's voice;
That tells of a world where the lost are found,
	Where dwell the loved of his choice.

Its golden spires are glittering high,
	Its music is wafting low;
"Come to Me, come to me, ye weary of earth
	For I have loved you so."
"I have made you a home of Jasper stones,
	And hung its walls with gold"—
Then the love of the great Eternal One,
	Will your trembling forms enfold.

"A gorgeous home I have made for you,
	In this glittering world on high,
Your loved ones are waiting to welcome you
	Come, come, they are drawing nigh.
Here the sun does not darken at the close of day,
	Here the breezes are coy and sweet"—
And the love of the Father is over all
	For here the loved ones meet.

Then heart be thou still, cry out no more!
	Thy jewels are shining there,
In gladness they tread the golden streets,
	And offer for thee a prayer.
Now hark! Through the gathering gloom
	Hear the angel voices tell,
"Daughter arise, thy cross take up,
	With thy loved ones all is well."
LYDIA D. ALDER
Oct 15th, 1895.


U. W. P. C.

	By special invitation the Utah Woman’s
Press Club held their December meeting at
the residence of Mrs. I. Cameron Brown.
President E. B. Wells presided in her usu-
ally dignified manner, calling the meeting
to order, and for invocation by Mrs. M. A.
Freeze. The members answered to roll
call by original sentiments.
	Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox read in her sweet im-
pressive manner an interesting paper on
Margaret Fuller, which was followed by a
song by Miss Pearl Russell.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden then gave in her
inimitable style a humorous recitation.


By special request our amiable hostess
Mrs. Brown, favored the club with a unique
and entertaining paper on the life and
works of Frances Burney.
	The names of Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings,
Mrs. Rachel S. Miller, and Dr. Ola R. Curtis
were presented for membership and the
vote carried unanimously.
	In behalf of the club an expression of
thanks was given by the President to Mrs.
Brown, who has upon different occasions
entertained the club so generously.
	Following the literary exercises dainty
refreshments were served in the most artis-
tic manner, “intermingled with a flow of
reason and a feast of wit,” for the musical
hum of voices kept time with the rattle of
china and the pleasant reunion closed with
many a cordial grasp of hands that never
met before, and all felt that heart came close
to heart and soul communed with soul.
E. R. SHIPP, Sec.


THE THIRD STAR.

	THE President’s Proclamation of the
Statehood of Utah issued January 4th, was
the occasion of a triumphal holiday all over
Utah and of a great demonstration in Salt
Lake City. The new Governor, Heber M.
Wells, did not forget to extend the hand of
greeting to the women who are now voters.
	There are no women in the United
States better fitted to exercise the right of
suffrage than the women of Utah. They
are accustomed to manage great enterprises
as witness their Relief Associations they
are thrifty, industrious, and simple and
sincere in tastes and habits. When voters
before they contributed to good local gov-
ernment. Since that time they have joined
hands with the women of the Suffrage As-
sociation, with the World’s Fair work and
in that union of all ties the National Coun-
cil, and in each capacity they have demon-
strated their earnestness and ability.
	Then too, there is something of poetical
justice that their rights should be accorded
them while as yet there are some to enjoy
it who helped to lay the foundations of their
prosperous commonwealth. In all that has
gone to making the desert-blossom like the
rose, the women of Utah have borne their
full share of workers, and that large share
of endurance and of sacrifice which in one
shape or another has always been the lot of
woman. Think of it, there are some still
left to exercise their tardily acquired right
who pushed their handcarts with their
babies and their bundles in them those
weary miles across the Great American
Deseret. The early Mormon women were
very largely of New England birth, and
they have gloried in having emulated the
exile and privations of the Pilgrims for the
same cause, namely freedom to worship ac-
cording to their conscience. Now that the
extraneous doctrine of polygamy is swept
away, the world will judge more fairly of
the Mormon citizens of Utah, upon the re-
sult of whose pioneer toils and courage
others are now building.
—Womans Tribune.


IN Colorado, last year, only one woman
held the office of county superintendent of
schools. Now there are twenty-three wo-
men superintendents. Yet some of our
remonstrants claim that women are less
likely to be chosen to school offices where
women vote.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor.

	“Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake-City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
thg, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business, communications to
		PUBLISHER, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office, in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY, 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	SOME of the sisters who have great love
for Sister Zina D. H. Young, and wishing
to manifest their appreciation of her labors
as a friend to humanity and a public ser-
vant, counseled together as to how they
could best express in a fitting manner the
esteem and respect of her associates on the
coming birthday which would complete her
seventy-fifth year—making the three quart-
ers of a century, which is a ripe age, and a
time, when one would no longer hesitate to
be called old, After careful thought it was
decided that as President of a great organi-
zation, the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety, it might be appropriate to celebrate
by a meeting in every ward throughout the
organization. Accordingly this was decided
upon and letters were written to presiding
officers and some suggestions were made to
them as to the program of exercises.
	Meanwhile her children and intimate
friends planned a banquet in her honor to
be given on January 31, 1896, and the sis-
ters who are officers in the General and
Salt Lake Stake Boards of the several
Associations met and conferred together, as
to what should be done, and how to pro-
ceed. The matter was given serious atten-
tion and after many meetings of Commit-
tees the Hotel Templeton was agreed upon
as a suitable place and arrangements were
made to hold the banquet there. Commit-
tees were appointed to dispose of the work
and the affair was settled. Invitations were
circulated and every detail attended to as far
as possible. All these things were done with-
out the knowledge or consent of Sister Zina.
Souvenir cards were prepared, Sister Zina’s
picture in the left-hand corner—her name
and the dates 1821—1896—and a verse in-
scribed which spoke of her labors and vir-
tues.
	A saintly face, and a great mother heart,
	So rich in grace, and charily thou art, 
	That evermore our reverence shall be,
	A loving tribute to thy memory,
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
	And future generations bless thy name.
	These cards represented the colors of the
Society which are in the banner, blue, white
and gold; cards white, edging and lettering
gold, ribbon with which it is tied blue. Mrs.
McCune with her usual generosity was on
hand with her carriage to convey eminent
guests. Sister Zina was brought from her
home into the parlors of the Templeton in-
to the midst of floral decorations and of

[Column 2] 
guests among whom were many very old
friends and distinguished visitors.
	About two hundred guests, relatives and
intimate friends of Mrs. Young were seated
at the banquet in the spacious dining room
of the Templeton, President Lorenzo Snow
of the Quorum of the Apostles offered the
benediction. Clive’s band discoursed the
choicest selections of music in the ante-
room during dinner, and after partaking of
the sumptuous repast, the company re-
paired to the parlors and the program of
exercises begun, Captain Willard Young
Master of Ceremonies; opening with music,
voluntary, on the piano by Miss Kate
Romney—song by Miss Carrol C. Cannon,
“Pilgrim’s Band of Hope” encore; Captain
Young’s address to his mother in recogni-
tion of the day, and her many labors and
teachings, which was both tender and elo-
quent—Singing led by Professor C. J.
Thomas and Maggie Hull, “O, my Father
thou that dwellest’’ etc. Response to toast,
“The Relief Society’’ by Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, giving the origin and organiza-
tion of that great and grand association.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed con-
firming the statements made by Sister
Kimball and expressing her own views and
her delight on this happy occasion. Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor read an original poem by
Emily H. Woodmansee after which more
music was given and a recitation by little
Zina Card—“Christ And The Little Ones”
song by Maggie Hull, poem by Augusta
J. Crocheron, read by Annie Wells Can-
non, telegrams of congratulations to Mrs.
Young from Ephraim, Nephi and Lehi in
behalf of the sisters of the society of these
places, were read. Speech by President
George Q. Cannon, in which he alluded to
the privileges of equality the sisters now
enjoyed and urged wisdom and caution in
the exercise of the franchise. Con-
gratulated Sister Zina on her labors, the
enjoyment of all her faculties and health
and strength at the great age, referred to
the many blessings the Saints enjoyed at
the present time.
	Response by the venerable President
Zina D. H. Young, and more music; speech
impromptu, Mrs. E. B. Wells and conver-
sation general among the guests. After-
wards Mrs. May B. Talmage recited “Only
A Girl,’’ very impressively rendered, and
there was music by Rhoda Mabel Young,
and songs in Hawaiian language by Elder
Jacob Gates and a speech by Elder Oliver
B. Huntington of Springville brother of
Mrs. Young; recitation “The New Church
Organ” by Mrs. Elizabeth McCune in her
inimitable style and humorous recitations
by Zebulun Jacobs grandson of Mrs. Young,
speech by George Chase of Centerville
and other exercises. The singing of
“Auld Lang Syne” completed the evening’s
entertainment. It was a very enjoyable
affair and a day never to be forgotten by
those who had the privilege of assembling
together and congratulating the lady in
whose honor the party was given.
	One thing to be regretted is that all the
very dear friends of Sister Young could not
have met in one place but there is no hall
large enough; and the Committees had to
decide on a certain number; in a party
given for one so universally beloved and
respected it would require a place as large
as the Theater or the Pavilion at Saltair.
	The entertainments given in the several
wards on the same day so far as we have
heard were very happy and enjoyable gather-
ings


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ERRATA—In the January number of our
paper the last stanza and ninth line of the
poem ‘‘Dying Yet Living” the word
“freedom” should read “guerdon.”
	MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS Vice Presi-
dent At Large of the State Suffrage As-
sociation and Mrs. Sarah A Boyer President
of Springville Suffrage Association, left the
City for Washington on the U. P. express
train Jan. 19, (Delegates) to attend the
National Woman Suffrage Convention at
the Capital. A number of Delegates were
nominated at an executive session of the
State Association on the 18th of December,
1895, and credentials furnished, but
on accouut of circumstances they could not
all go to the Convention. Among those who
were nominated besides the two already
mentioned were Lucy A. Clark, Farming-
ton, President Davis County Suffrage As-
sociation; Corinne M. Allen wife of the
Utah representative who is already, in
Washington, Augusta W. Grant, Ella W.
Hyde, Margaret A. Caine, Martha B.
Cannon wife of the Senator (Frank J.
Cannon,) Margaret B. Salisbury, Nellie
M. Little, Elizabeth McCune and Mary E.
Gilmer. Our knowledge of the Convention
is very meager, only what the dispatches
have given, and one or two personal tele-
grams we have received.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last business
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, a quo-
rum being present, it was decided that the
annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of
dating from the first day of January to the
last day of December inclusive, reports will
be hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or
otherwise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of
the Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt
Lake City, not later than the 20th of
February.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


EXTRACTS FROM MRS. C. M.
ALLEN’S LETTER.

	I HAVE enjoyed attending the sessions of
the convention more than I can tell you.
	Many of these women of national
reputation are more than one has believed
them to be. I was greatly delighted with
Mrs. Catt. She is a woman of marvelous
power. I cannot speak in detail of all of
them. To do it would simply be repeat-
ing what you already know better than I
do.
	On Utah night the church was packed as
I never saw a house packed before.
	Hundreds were refused admission and
hundreds of women and men stood during
the long exercises.
	Miss Shaw’s speech was short not over
twelve or fourteen minutes, but the most


eloquent I have ever heard which is saying
a great deal. Mr. Cannon’s reply was in
his usual happy vein. Mr. Allen spoke
briefly and not apparently unacceptably.
Mrs. Boyer followed with a talk that
shewed her a woman of ability. Mrs.
Richards read her paper last. It was a
thoughtful and well prepared history of suf-
frage in Utah. I never saw her look so
handsome. Her dress was beautiful and
became her well. The rest of the evening
was given up to state reports and brief ad-
dresses. It was amusing to see that even
here in this great convention there were wo-
men who would run over their time, and go
on after the bell had rung.
Washington D. C. Jan. 24th, 1896.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	“THE twenty-eighth annual convention of 
the National-American W. S. A. opened
Thursday morning, Jan. 23, 1896, in the
Church of Our Father, Washington, D. C.
the president, Miss Anthony, in the chair.
In opening the meeting Miss Anthony said:
	This is the twenty-eighth annual suffrage
convention in Washington. The thought
that brought us here twenty-eight years
ago was that, if the National Constitution
could be invoked to protect black men in
the right to vote, the same great authority
could be evoked to protect women. The
question has been urged upon every Con-
gress since 1869. We asked at first for a
sixteenth amendment, enfranchising wo-
men; then for suffrage under the fourteenth
amendment; then when the Supreme Court
had decided that against us, we returned
to the sixteenth amendment, and have
pressed it ever since. In the present Con-
gress, Senator Hoar has introduced in the
Senate a joint resolution for a sixteenth
amendment, and it has been referred to the
Senate Committee on Woman Suffrage,
of which Senator Call, of Florida is chair-
man. A similar resolution has been pre-
sented in the House by Congressman North-
way, of Indiana, and has been referred to
the Judiciary Committee.
	You will notice that the seats of the dele-
gation from Utah are marked by a large
United States flag bearing three stars, a big
one and two smaller ones. The big star is
for Wyoming, because she stood alone for a
quarter of a century as the only State
where women voted. Colorado comes next,
because she is the first State where a ma-
jority of the men ever voted to grant women
equal rights. Then comes Utah; because
the men of Utah, in convention assembled,
in spite of the bad example of Congress,
which took the right away from the women
of Utah ten years ago,—the men of Utah,
having seen the good effects of woman
suffrage for years before that, voted by an
overwhelming majority to leave out the
little word "male" from their suffrage
clause. Next year, if I am here, I hope to
rejoice over California and Idaho, and the
next year over several more. We have
now three bricks laid down in the row. 
We have every reason for encouragement,
none for discouragement. One sign of
progress is that men in high places begin to 
talk back to us, instead of considering us
unworthy of notice. They read the Call
for our convention; and President Eliot, of
Harvard, does not like it that we quote
him. 
	Miss Anthony read the sentences from
President Eliot's article quoted in the Call,


and continued: Now, friends, you all know
I am a Quaker. We give thanks in silence
before each meal. I do not think the heart
of any one here has been fuller of silent
thankfulness than mine; but I should not
have remembered to have the meeting form-
ally opened with prayer if somebody had
not reminded me. Rev. Anna Shaw will
offer prayer.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Dec.
28th, 1895. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Sister Frances Smith. Singing,
“Guide Us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
The minutes of the previous meeting were
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she felt very thank-
ful to be here with her sisters at the close of
another year, said there were enough here
to claim the blessing, “That where a few 
are met together in my name there will I be
also.” Many have come here today for a
blessing and felt that each one would re-
ceive the comfort she needed. Exhorted
her sisters if any one had feelings against
another not to let it have place in her
heart, but let them all die with the old
year and commence again anew with the
new year. Would like to have all her
sisters read, Christ's sermon on the Mount
often. Pray continually for the Spirit of
God for that led into all truth; do not let
your talents lie dormant but seek them out,
referred to President Cannon’s sermon on
the same subject.  Spoke of obedience of
children to parents also obedience to the
Gospel; said teach children self sacrifice;
good Latter-day Saints were self-sacrificing:
felt we were in a more dangerous condition
now than ever before and that there were
more temptations abroad for the young;
spoke of virtue, said she heard President
Cannon say he did not believe in long
courtships for young people. Spoke of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his wonderful 
work all accomplished in fourteen years.
His life was not one of peace but of turmoil,
spoke of her association with him.  Bore a
strong testimony. Prayed the Lord to
bless us and help us to do better in the
coming year.
	Sister Cutler, said she wanted to bear
her testimony to the goodness of God: also
that He heard and answered prayer. Said
she went to the dedication of the Temple
fasting and everything she asked the Lord
for that day had been given to her four-
fold.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she came here
today rather hungry for a blessing and felt
sure she would receive it; she never en-
joyed a meeting more in her life than she
did the conference here two weeks ago, did
not know why unless it was that she felt
free from all responsibility and could settle
down for pure enjoyment. She loved to
hear her sisters testify of their association
with the prophets; the dearest thing on
earth to her was her association with her
aged sisters, those who had done so much
good and had had so much experience, felt
she ought to be a great deal better than she
was; spoke very beautifully of her friend-
ship with Sisters Marinda N. Hyde and S.
M. Heywood who had passed behind the
vail and of their noble lives and the
example they set. Said we could not be
thankful enough for the Gospel, felt there

[Column 2]
was a great responsibility on the saints, al-
so that this was truly a time of trial for us,
knew Satan was not dead, felt that we
should ever be on the alert. Exhorted the
sisters to be charitable and each morning
before leaving our room ask God for His
Holy Spirit and for the help we need this
day: scan ourselves and never be above
asking one another’s forgivness if we have
done wrong, for then we could ask God to
forgive us: felt the coming year was full of
trials that we little knew of: we must be
humble and always try and say, “O God
Thy will, not mine, be done.” Prayed
that at the close of 1896 we might feel we
had served the Lord better than the year
before, closed by asking God to bless us all.
	Sister M. O. Brown felt glad of the
record she had made in the Temple this
year. When we could learn to listen to the
still small voice we were blest, we must
live near the Lord, said she never forgot
the sisters nor these meetings: hoped she
would be able to make a greater record in
the Temple this coming year than she had
in the last. Asked God’s blessing upon
us.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune said she had
not been identified with the Relief Society
until the last two months, had been more
with the young ladies: told of a, blessing
she had wherein it was prophecied she
should do a great Relief Society work.
Soon after this she was made Treasurer in
the Relief Society of the Seventeenth
Ward. The next Saturday she came to
these meetings and never enjoyed a meeting
so much. Felt she had missed a great deal
by not attending them before; thought it
would be a good idea to bring a pencil and
paper and jot down some of the words and
ideas of our dearly beloved sisters, Aunt
Zina, Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne,
for they were indeed gems and we would
not always have them with us: related a
dream she had; felt she had done better
in the last year than ever before, she felt
well and wanted to do do a great deal bet-
ter in the next. Sister Martha Barrow felt
she had always done the best she could,
had been in the church many years: God
had blessed her with good sons and
daughters. Her son had just come home
from a mission, felt very proud of him and
highly honored. Knew God would and
did bless the missionaries and kept them
from harm and temptation, bore a strong
testimony.
	A sister felt glad she was numbered with
the people of God, bore her testimony. 
	Sister Julia Sampson said the spirit
prompted her to add her testimony to the
others. She thanked her Heavenly Father
for the strength He had given her to enable
her to pass through her trials. Spoke of
the meeting one year ago, also of the sister
who spoke in tongues on that occasion
said there was much we could learn from
one another. We could not be happy in
the eternal world without our children. If
children go astray they will have to pay
the penalty. Hoped we would all have a
happy New Year and that God would give
us those things which would be best for
us.
	Sister Sophia Nuttall spoke of the effort
it was for her to speak, had been told in a
blessing that she should do this, felt this
was a trying time for the young and that it
would require all our strength to save
them: knew our labors would increase but
if we had patience and humility God


would give us the strength and help we
needed. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Sister M. A. Hardy said she had made a
great effort to come here today, remembered
the meeting one year ago, also the sisters
who spoke in tongues. The desire of her
heart was to go to the Temple this winter;
prayed the Lord would open her way so she
could do so.
	Sister Brown spoke of the goodness of
the Lord to her, said each year she tried to
do better than the last, bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt thankful to 
see some new faces today: said we should
treasure the gems spoken by our aged 
sisters also their testimonies and 
recollections of the Prophet. We should be
a very thankful people, she had done the 
best she could in the past year but wanted 
to try and improve: said the fathers should
do their part in teaching and training the
children, thought parents should never
have differences before their children.
Prayed God to bless us all in the coming
year.
	Sister Jane James said she had lived in
the Prophet’s family: could not express
what a great man he was; she had many
trials and asked the sisters all to pray for
her. 
	Sister Horne made some closing remarks. 
The fathers could not come down to the
capacity of the children as the mothers
could: what children learned in their youth
they always remembered. When they
come home from Sunday School and
Primary, parents should ask them what
they have learned. Prayed we might al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord to help
us bear our trials. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us,” etc. Benediction by Sister J.
C.Howe.
			ZINA HYDE, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
REJOICING AT HUNTSVILLE.

Editor Exponent:
	Dear Sister:—Feeling a desire to let you
know that we live in the tops of these
beautiful mountains, where the Lord said
his people should dwell, and can say that
we are from all nations, trying to learn of
his ways, and walk in his paths, building
up the waste places for our posterity to
dwell upon, of which you will see from a
synopsis of the celebration of the day of
days for this our beautiful Territory’s free-
dom. Statehood, we do appreciate this
grand privilege, also woman’s equality, to
advance in all that is progressive, as woman
should in order to bring forth those noble
spirits which it is said should be reserved
for these days.
	Our little valley was awakened by the
ringing of bells, our beautiful Meeting
House opened for exercises at 10 o’clock,
Jan. 6th.
	Some of our best speakers made short
speeches for the occasion, the brass band
was in attendance. At noon, the Relief
Society had prepared dinner for those who
took part in the formal opening of a fine
two story brick building, erected for the use
and benefit of all Relief Society work, also
the Young Ladies who have taken a very
prominent part in raising means to assist in
the great struggle of building and our dear
little primary childrens, nickles must not be
forgotten.
	At 2 o’clock the brass band made the

[Column 2] 
house ring with the best music of Hunts-
ville.
	After which meeting was called to order
by the chairman A. J. Anderson, music,
prayer by Counselor S. L. Peterson. Sing-
ing by the ward choir, after which a poem
composed by Sister Emma Peterson on
Statehood and the labors of the sisters, was
well rendered by her daughter Olivia.
Music by the guitar club. A speech was
then given by Lona Schada, on the labors
of the trustees expressing thankfulness for
the blessings of statehood and the privileges
of this beautiful house. A speech by Sister
Emma Burrows, she was glad to see this
day in celebrating the opening of this hall
for the benefit of all charitable purposes,
“for the poor ye shall always have,’’ said the
Savior; she never had had one doubt in re-
gard to the building of this house for she
fully realized it was all done under the in-
fluence and direction of the spirit, and
nothing but union of effort could have ac-
complished this work with so little means,
refered to the time of the laying of the
corner stone, by Apostle F. D. Richards the
prayer then offered, had been fulfilled, to
the satisfaction of those who were deeply
interested, namely the board of directors
and building committee; space will not per-
mit to tell of the unceasing labors of this
noble band of workers. Music and song by
the choir, after which President Tracy said
her heart was full of gratitude to God and
the brethren and sisters for this day. We
have labored so long who can doubt the
hand of God, scarcely any means to start
with, but here a little and there a little com-
bined labor under wise management and
we are here enjoying this day of freedom.
Music by the martial band. Speeches by
the committee of ladies and brethren. A
speech by Sister Hawkins, she was thank-
ful for this day and manifested her loyalty
and patriotism by proposing that three
cheers be offered in honor of the day, which
were given.
	Song by the young ladies; we trust at
the dedication of this building justice can
be done to all in the near future. Some
little expenses yet hang over it, success to
all such enterprises, all accomplished by
home made work.
	We remain your fellow laborers in the
Gospel.
			ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
			EMMA BURROWS, Secy.
Jan. 6, 1896.


R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
held at Mesa, Arizona, Dec. 20, 1895.
President Mabel Ann Hakes presiding.
Stake President Collin R. Hakes, Henry
C. Rogers, and other brethren present beside
a goodly number of the society.
President Alice Richens, Mesa Ward,
Louisa Harper,Lehi Ward, Ann Klienman,
Alma Ward, Esther Openshaw, Nephi
Ward, and Sister Sarah Tiffany of Papago
Ward, gave encouraging reports from these
respective wards. All seemed to be doing
as well as usual, although there seemed to
be a faithful few who had to do the princi-
pal part of the work of the respective
society, but upon the whole there was a
general good feeling and we had a good
meeting.
	Sisters Brimhall, Emma Rogers and
Sister Bailey bore their testimony and ex-
pressed joy and pride, that they were num-
bered with the Latter-day Saints.
	Sister M. A. Hakes, Sister Lizzie A.
Macdonald had visited all the wards during
the last three months, the other counselor,
S. A. Robson had not been able to go on ac-
count of her failing health. They found
everything working well and the sisters in
the various branches doing a good work in
caring for the sick and helping where
help was needed. Sister Lizzie A.
MacDonald gave some timely exhortations
as well as good advice to the Saints in gen-
eral, and mothers in particular.
	Brother Henry C. Rogers spoke for a
short time on the importance of attending
our meetings, as well as all other duties de-
volving upon a real live Latter-day Saint.
	President Collin R. Hakes was altogether
proud of the Saints of Maricopa Stake.
Spoke a short time on the duties of those
who had accepted positions of responsibility
in the Church, and the order of the Gospel.
Annual reports approved, also the minutes
of previous meeting by Bishop Eli Open-
shaw, conference was adjourned for three
months.	F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
SIXTH WARD.
	MINUTES of monthly-meeting held in
the Sixth Ward Assembly Room, Jan. 2nd,
1896. President West presiding. Present
Counselor Ellen R. Watson. There were
also present Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West, M. Isabella Horne, Stake
President. Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon. Also Brothers Jas,
Latham and Pugh. Singing, ‘’How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President West expressed her pleasure in
having President Horne and Counselors
with us this afternoon. Owing to the de-
mise of our late Counselor, Sister Britton,
Sister Janet Cochrane had been elected in
our last meeting to fill the vacancy, being
absent no further steps were taken at that
time; President West had spoken personally
with her later, owing to her advanced age
and poor health, she declined the position.
it was now in order to choose a Counselor.
Would like to hear from the Bishop on this
subject.
	Bishop Watson explained Sister Coch-
rane’s circumstances, said while it is our
right to call, we have also the right to ex-
cuse, Sister Cochrane’s excuse was a
righteous one, he was satisfied she did not
desire to shirk any duty. Spoke of her
faithfulness, her integrity, she felt in her
declining years unable to fill this position.
Spoke of President West’s long sickness,
her faithfulness. The good work the
society were engaged in.
	President West made choice of Sister El-
len Watson first Counselor, Sister Alice
Butterworth, second Counselor. On motion
of Bishop Watson, Counselor Ellen R.
Watson was elected first Counselor to
President West, carried by unanimous vote.
On motion of Sister Condie, Sister Alice
Butterworth was elected second Counselor.
carried unanimously.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson was set apart
by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Counselor Alice Butterworth by Coun-
selor Jesse West.
President Horne, "my sisters I am
pleased to meet with you.” Wished all a
Happy New Year, peace, health and pros-
perity. Spoke of the duties of the Presi-


dent, the order of the Relief Society, the
society should be in harmony with the
Bishopic of the wards. “I was connected
with the first Relief Society organized by
the Prophet Joseph. Heard the gospel for
the first time, three weeks after my mar-
riage with Brother Home. In shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph, felt such
an influence that it thrilled my body like
electricity. Knew he was a Prophet of
the Lord. Had never lost the spirit of the
gospel from that time. Gave a brief sketch
of her life. Felt to prize and honor the
associations and acquaintance dearly. “The
adversary is abroad on the earth, we need
to be wise. Read the Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and the Bible, those
who study these works have no time for
fault finding." Spoke of some, who were
connecting themselves with Christian
Science. Satan has great power on the
earth, we should watch and pray, that our
minds may not be darkened; be careful how
we speak of the Lord’s anointed. Spoke
of the power Satan exercised over the
messenger sent to Daniel in answer to his
prayer, by obstructing his path and en-
gaging in combat, how the Heavenly Mes-
senger who overcame him, also explained
to Daniel why he had been delayed. Spoke
of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph on
the signs of the times. He said when the
Russian Bear puts his paw on the British
Lion be sure the end is not far off. Presi-
dent Horne said I am pleased with your
choice of your Counselors Alice Butter-
worth whom I have been acquainted with
for a number of years. Spoke of her
financial abilities, her faithfulness in the
gospel. Spoke of Sister Cochrane’s
integrity to the truth. Spoke of the
responsibility of the teachers. The Relief
Society were not to assist the poor alone;
but also to edify and instruct each other
and save souls. None but pure chaste wo-
men should be members; gave much good
instructions, especially in regard to storing
of grain. Closed her remarks by urging
the sisters to be diligent in discharging
their duties.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde “I have been
pleased with the remarks of Sister Horne,
she always tells us something good." Desired
to assist in Zion’s cause. Regretted that so
few were here today, many did not realize
the importance of the Relief Society, both
old and young women should be members.
The Prophet Joseph was inspired to
organize the sisters. Emma Smith was
called to the office of President by revela-
tion. Joseph in giving instructions in the
third meeting, said none but women of good
repute should become members. The work
is not to relieve the poor alone, but to ex-
hort and expound the scriptures. Urged
the teachers to invite and encourage the
sisters to come to meeting. Did not know
how any could absent themselves from
meeting; the spirit of God could not dwell
with such. We need all the instructions
we can receive. Many blessings are
promised to mothers, if we are faithful we
can administer to our children, call on the
Lord to bless them,and to heal them if they
are sick. These are great and glorious
privileges for mothers to enjoy, the Priest-
hood of God is on the earth today, it is
patterned after the order of Enoch and
Paul.
	President Horne related an incident
where her child was healed throngh the
administration of Mother Smith, the
Prophet Joseph’s mother.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon regretted that
the sisters were not more anxious to be con-
nected with the Relief Society, these as-
sociations were not only a benefit but a
great blessing to woman. Advised the
teachers to labor with them. Tell them of
the blessings to be derived from the good
instructions given there, how they would
help to lighten their labors at home. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
should belong the to Relief Society. I have
heard the remark, that old women have
nothing to talk about, in this they make a
grand mistake. We can talk to each other
of the gospel, its principles never grow old,
we can learn something new every day
from it. My sisters, let us educate our-
selves! And know our true position, no
one can give.us their testimony, we have to
earn our own salvation, to know the truth
for ourselves; our conscience will tell us
when we do wrong. President Horne told
us of the power of Satan we cannot afford
to be careless. Read good books, be hum-
ble and prayerful. Seek to know the truth
for yourselves, that we may be faithful to
the end."
	Sister Alice Butterworth said “my sisters
I will try to fill the position assigned me,
by the assistance of my Heavenly Father,
had received many blessings through faith
and prayer.”
	Sister Ellen R. Watson said, “In accept-
ing the position I am called to occupy, my
only desire is to do good, to assist the poor,
to help the sick and afflicted, and perform
my duties.” Asked God to bless this
society.
	Sister Margaret Latham was set apart as
first Counselor to President Hunter of
Primary Association by Brother John
Latham. Sister Elizabeth E. Watson as
s econd Counselor by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Bishop Watson made closing remarks,
thanked President Horne and Counselors
for their visit. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in the discharge of theirduties.
	Adjourned for one month. Benediction
by Counselor Jesse West.
	After close of meeting. President Horne
and Counselors with Bishop Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West and officers of Relief
Society repaired to President West’s where
a bounteous luncheon awaited them, pre-
pared by her daughters. After a pleasant
time and social chat, all returned to their
homes feeling blest and benefited by the
good instructions given.
ELIZABETH W. CONDIE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN the U. S. Senate, Hon. George F.
Hoar has presented a joint resolution for a
Constitutional Amendment admitting wo-
men to suffrage.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT has clear-
ed $140 for the National Organization
Committee by her Woman Suffrage Calen-
dars, which found a ready sale. We con-
gratulate her.
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET was the victim
of an attempted compliment at a recent
temperance meeting in London. She was
absent through illness. The lady who
took her place made this kindly but unex-
pected explanation: "Dear Lady Henry has
been overworked, and we must, of course,
be careful not to kill the goose that lays the
golden eggs."

[Column 2]
	IN Wyoming the State superintendent of
instruction, M1ss Estelle Reel, is conducting
her office with such skill and winning such
golden opinions that her nomination for
Governor of Wyoming in 1896 is being
seriously considered.
	MISS LAURENCE TADEMA, the daughter
of Alma-Tadema, has written one fairly
successful book, "The Crucifix." She has
just completed a translation of Maaterlinck’s
plays, for which she has written a preface
that is said to possess exceptional literary
merit. Miss Tadema is not yet twenty-five
years of age, and is an artist as well as a
writer.
	THE Woman’s Political Equality Club of
Rochester. N. Y., held a "Lucretia Mott"
anniversary social, at the residence of Dr.
E. M. Moore, on the evening of Jan. 16.
An interesting biographical sketch of the
"Saintly Lucretia" was read by Mrs. Jean
Brooks Greenleaf. Personal reminiscences
were given by Dr. E. M. Moore, who is a
nephew of James Mott, and by Miss Susan
B. Anthony.
	MRS. ELLEN M. HENROTIN’ president of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs,
has issued a circular letter to all the club
presidents, asking them to bring forward
the consideration of a peace movement in
Europe and in this country. The ultimate
hope is to have a convention of the Chris-
tian powers in 1900, with a view to estab-
lishing an international court of arbitration.
	Many of the club presidents have already
acted in accordance with the letter.
	MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE, recently 
entertained the Bostonian Club with rem-
niscences of "Boston Sixty Years Ago."
Her home was on Salem Street, near the
corner of Bennett Street—the court end of
Boston .Mrs. Livermore’s earliest recollec-
tion of an important event is the visit of
Lafayette, when the roads between Boston
and Worcester were gaily decorated, and all
the children in town dressed up in honor of
the event.
	A LARGE and brilliant assembly greeted
Miss Anthony and Mrs. Upton at the home
of the editor of the TRIBUNE last Saturday.
	There were Senators and members, with
their wives, the gifted ladies from National
Park Seminary, and a large number of the
prominent women of the District, many of
them with their husbands. Miss Anthony
had only been in the city a few hours, but
did not seem fatigued with her journey and
was in her usual health and spirits.—Ex.
	MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW, of this city,
who made a prolonged visit at the Atlanta,
(Ga.) Exposition, found much there that is
interesting and encouraging in relation to
the work and progress of women. In a let-
ter to the Boston Transcript she writes ap
preciatively of the women who composed
the Women’s Board of Managers, and re-
counts some of the many difficulties they
bravely overcame. She says significantly:
"While the Exposition itself comes out be-
hind in money matters, the Women’s
Board, who built and managed the Wo-
man’s Building, unaided and unadvised by
men, came out with about $4,000 in their
treasury."—Ex.
	MISS Clara Barton has sailed for England,
en route to Armenia, with the prayers and
sympathy of the American people for her
safety and success. It is a difficult and
delicate task to invade the domain of a


monarch to assist a province which has as-
pirations for political as well as religious
liberty, and we must not ignore the fact that
the persecutions have a political and not a
religious basis; hence the Sultan’s objection
to his rebellious subjects being assisted by
money raised at meetings called to denounce
the government. But Miss Barton will
make the humanitarian side prominent and
will never step on a Moslem to aid a Chris-
tian. She will assuredly secure not only
the permission but the co-operation of the
Sublime Porte.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

	Although my mind is simply teeming
with the work of this last year I think I
have told you enough, but the Colorado
women are in politics and they mean to stay
and the men like to have them although
some of them don’t, but they are not the
best men I assure you, and we prize the
ballot more and more. It has been said
that giving woman the ballot will simply
double the vote, that all women will vote
just as their husbands do or if they don’t
they will fight. I don’t vote as my hus-
band does. This is the twentieth year of
our married life and while he has been a
Republican and I have been a Democrat it
has not created any dissension between us;
he is perfectly delighted to hear my views,
it is variety that gives the spice to life, and
gives self respect to each of them. Yes,
the Democratic wife of a Republican hus-
band went all about the State and stumped
the State for the party to which her hus-
band was opposed. So I think that speaks
well for the husband. Miss Shaw is going
to speak to you now. I give to you women
of Utah the right hand of fellowship from
the women of Colorado, and I assure you
that as the days go by you will find the suf-
frage conferred upon you the most beautiful,
the most delightful and the most gratifying,
that your children will look upon you with
a great deal more respect because they will
realize that you have the same rights that
their fathers have, and I hope that our wo-
men will not vote just exactly as their hus
bands do. You know the children of a
Democratic mother and a Republican father
never can grow up thinking that all the
political wisdom in the world is found in
one particular party—they will, realize that 
it is divided up pretty equally, and honest
men and honest women may be divided in
politics if they will only remain loyal to
the declaration of Independence, loyal to
the stars and stripes and loyal to the Con-
stitution of the United States and the
magnificent expression of the power that
makes right and justice, which is embodied
in this glorious democratic—republican
government. (Applause.) 
	Miss Anthony: I will introduce to you
the Vice-president at large of a still larger 
Association than our Suffrage Association
and that is the Vice-president at large of
the National Council of Women of the
United States which has held its second
triennial council in the City of Washing-
ton and which three years from now will
hold its third triennial council and that
council consists not only of the Suffrage
Society but it consists of nineteen other
national organizations of this country; wo-
men organized for one and another great 
purpose, and as you have always heard it
said that you have never heard of any class
of women organizing for any other than a

[Column 2]
good purpose and I am proud always to
present as my first Lieutenant Miss Anna
Shaw. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MISS ANNA SHAW.
	You know whenever women undertake
to do anything everybody has not always
wanted to do the first thing they say is, we
are getting out of our sphere. We have
heard that so long that some of us are not
the least bit frightened by it. Then if that
doesn’t frighten us to death they shout
“You are strong minded!” And we come
to feel since there are only two classes of
people the strong and the weak minded
people, we prefer to be classed with 
the strong minded (laughter.) Then the next
shot that is made is “You are a set of
Infidels!” If there is nothing else that
will kill you that will sure. Miss Anthony
during the New York campaign wanted to
impress upon the people that we were not,
and to make it strong she always brought
me up as a type of a strong orthodox back-
ing up the movement; so one day she
wanted to make a good impression and she
said “Now I have the pleasure of introduc-
ing to you an ordained minister and an or-
dained minister of the Methodist Church,
Rev. Anna Shaw who is my right bower,
(applause) and you can fancy the impres-
sion she gave on that orthodox community,
and the only person in that orthodox com-
munity who didn't know what a right 
bower was, was Miss Anthony (applause)
(laughter) all the rest of us knew just what
it was. Now my friends I hardly know
what to say because I want to fire a lot of
hot shot at you to night. In the old state
where I live we won't come into the Union
until the whole kite comes in and we will
come in at the tail end, so it seems like
talking to a person who is already free and
there is no possible hope of my being free
unless I come to Utah (applause) if it was
not that I like to be a missionary and come
here, but you don’t need missionaries here,
I want to go to the heathen (applause.) but
I was very much interested this afternoon
at what one of your gentlemen said and it
is so funny that the opposition are so sincere
and yet they don’t know just what they are
saying. This gentleman in his polite way
said he had such a high opinion of women
that he didn’t want to drag us down on a 
level with men on election day because
politics are so dirty and I thought the only
thing that is dirty about politics is the men,
(laughter and applause) and since we have
to live with these men 364 days in the year
why can’t they let us risk it the 365 days;
and if it is such a dirty place who can
handle a mop like a woman. (laughter)
When the Mayor of New York at one time
suggested the appointing of women on the
Board of Street Commissioners the Sun a
conservative old paper said to the Mayor
of New York. “Put your women on the
Board of Street Commissioners; who can
handle a broom so well as they.” And if
politics are dirty it does seem that it is time
they were cleaned up and they have got to
be cleaned up and we have got to come and 
help you. See how good we are. See how
kind we are! We were made to be your
helpmates. You are undertaking to run
this thing without us and you cannot ex-
pect to get out of it. I have always wanted
to see that and it is so wonderful that you
men want to keep it all to yourselves and
yet it is so safe. I cannot see why a decent
man is not as decent as a decent woman,

[Column 3]
and why a clean man is not just as clean as
a clean woman and why a moral man is not
just as moral as a moral woman, and I can’t
imagine how any decent man wants to get
down into any kind of a ruin. I have so
much respect for men that they have no
right to be asked to go anywhere where a
decent woman can’t go. I am getting tired
of this filthy pool of politics and strong-
minded women and all the rest of it. Why
is it a sort of a bugaboo to make them keep
still as the strong man will tell them. I
heard a woman on the train tell her children
if they didn’t behave that the Conductor
would punch a hole in their ears; I have
heard them tell lies to them, and then won-
der at Providence. But these people are
always telling stories to people to make
them keep still and scare them into good
behavior. Now Gentlemen, this dirty pool
of politics won’t scare us; we don’t believe
it and in the second place we are going to
stand right by you, we never have forsaken
you and we are not going to forsake you
now; and we will get out of our sphere. Is
it not wonderful that it is so easy for a wo-
man to get out of her sphere? I have been
out of my sphere for 25 years and I have
been exceedingly comfortable and a great
deal more so than in it and all these 25 years
I have been looking around to find a man
out of his sphere and I never yet found one
and I wondered why it was so easy for a
woman to get out of her sphere until I had
at last discovered that a man hadn’t any
sphere, to get out of. (Applause and laugh-
ter) But there is one thing true and that
is if you don’t get out of your sphere you
get into ours. (Laughter.)
	Not very long ago a good Methodist par-
son introduced me to a congregation and he
said “The only objection I have to you
women is that you push yourselves into the
kind of work that a man used to be engaged
in and what will become of us poor preach-
ers by and by,” and I said: “I think there
are a great many men preaching who would
to better at some other kind of business
and let women take the place and a good
thing it would be for the poor congregation
and an excellent thing for the preacher,”
and I said the difficulty with you is you
have been watching us so that you have
forgotten to watch yourselves. Years ago
there were only seven kinds of employment
and now there are more than seven hundred
kinds of employment in the United States in
which a woman can earn a livelihood; but
in the seven occupations in, which women
were engaged there are very few women to
be found to day, the men have taken them
up altogether.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
VOL. 24. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. FEBRUARY 15, 1896.
NO. 18.


CONTENTS:
	The Washington Convention. The Utah
Evening—Woman's Tribune. Relief Society
Organized. Leap Year Figures. U. W. P. C.—
E. R. Shipp. The Leaping of the Leap Years.
Anna Lowrie Ivins. To The Sisters. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde. R. S. Re-
port—Sarah Pope. S. L. Co. W. S. A. --Cassie
C. Newman. Birthday Party—Hilda M. Graham.
A Pleasant Gathering—Agnes Lewis. Swiss
And German. Notes And News. Conference
N. A. W. S, A. Another Advance Step—F. M. A.
	Editorial:—A Woman On The School
Board. Women Can Help. Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—The Vision—Cactus. Lovingly In-
scribed—E. R. Shipp. To Aunt Zina—Minnie
Loveland Snow.


[Column 1]
THE VISION.
I PENSIVE sat alone, at that sweet hour,
When, in the west, the dying king of day,
Merges his fading glories into night.
Alone, in such deep thought, the sleeping hour,
Of time passed on unnoted, and ere long,
Night’s shadows, like the poet’s sable shroud.
Enwrapped the senses of a slumb’ring world.
In that deep hour, with all its solemn gloom,
The soul, it seems, in closer union meets,
With Nature’s greater,universal soul.
And thus with me; Identity was lost;
And I became, for one brief hour at least,
The willing captive of the hoary past.
By force unseen, nor with mine own volition,
I, fanned by breezes as I passed along,
With silent power was borne unto a mount,
Whose lofty summit, overlooked the land.
Like map in high relief there stretched away,
Beneath, a panorama, far and near;
The towns and cities, rivers, fields and woods,
And all that goes to make what we call earth.
But darkness deep, bespread the landscape o’er,
Nor could the rising sun, with fervid power,
Dispel the murky clouds which, like a pall,
Hung o’er each spot by foot of mankind pressed.

As with the eye of bird, I looked and saw,
All things transpiring on our little world.
And I beheld confusion, envy, strife;
Among the surging throngs of human life.
The power of strength o’er weakness, and the cry
Of wretched want assailing hoarded wealth. 
And more I saw: dark deeds of murder, theft,
Committed under cover of the clouds,
Which ever more grew blacker and more dense,
As deeds of men took on more dismal hue.

And when, anon, up through the murky air,
Assailed mine ears, the wailing cries of her
Who, weaker than her elder brother, man,
Still bore his burden, added to her own:
My heart grew sick, at sights and sounds so dire;
I closed mine eyes, refusing more to gaze,
On scenes opposed to reason, and my heart.

'Twas then a voice in tender cadence spoke,
Bidding me ope, again my averted eyes,
And I obeyed; I could not otherwise,
So much authority spoke in the tone.
I saw no person, but a Presence felt,
As well as heard, and listed to obey.

I looked again- the scene was little changed,
Gross darkness reigned o’er all the sleeping
	world,
Except, at one small point, where, like a star,

[Column 2]
Of purest ray, and primal magnitude,
Shone forth a light of brightest radiance;
Which, as I gazed, enlarged, and as it grew,
Its brightness softened, and its mellowed tone
Assumed the form and substance of a man,
Of goodly parts, and beaming countenance.
A god-like man, who towered above the world,
As Gulliver beyond the pigmy tribe.

A gleaming pedestal beneath his feet,
Made up of stones, each sep’rate stone a gem,
Engraved, in shining letters with its name.
Fair Truth appeared as chiefest corner-stone
Flanked by Justice here, and Mercy there.
Faith shone serenely from her central place,
Love! Her sweet sister, snugly by her side—
While Hope, with smiling lips and eye serene,
Throughout the darkness sent long rays of light.

A standard held the Vision in his hand,
A silken banner of cerulean hue—
Enwrit,in letters like to burning fire,
With “REVELATION!”title most divine.
And with the other hand he held aloft,
A great golden key: and as I gazed,
I heard a voice of wondrous depth and power,
Proclaim this utterance to the startled world:
"The key is turned for woman: and henceforth
She takes her rightful place by brother man.
Her star is risen, and will brighter grow,
And go not out forever. Let it be!"

The vision faded, leaving in its wake,
The glorious light, the heaven-revealed, the true,
Which ever spread, and ever chased the gloom.
And from afar arose small points of light,
Which grew, and multiplied, and coalesced,
As though in sympathy with their great head,
Until, in God’s due time, the darkness fled,
And man and woman, true to his great plan,
Emerged into the glorious light of day.
CACTUS.


THE WASHINGTON CONVENTON
(Miss Anthony's Address Thursday Jan. 23.)
	After a few pleasant words about the
beautiful gavel of Colorado wood, bound
with Colorado silver, that had been presen-
ted to the convention by Minnie Henderson,
of Grand Junction, Col , Miss Anthony
gave a graphic account of her trial many
years ago on an accusation of illegal voting;
how she was sentenced to a fine, which she
did not pay; and how the judges of election
who had received her vote were imprisoned
for several days, and were fed on all sorts
of dainties by the matrons of the city until
they were pardoned out, Miss Anthony
continued: “I get letters 
from all over the 
United States’ asking, ‘Why don’t you
claim suffrage for women under the Four-
teenth Amendment? We have tried that
method even to imprisonment. The
Supreme Court has decided against us.
There remain two other ways of getting
suffrage; by amendments to the constitu-
tion of the different States, and by an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, for which we are asking to-
day. This national method of work is
especially valuable. The delegates assem-
ble in this convention from all over the
Union have a hearing before the Congress
ional Committees, the report of their


speeches are printed by Congress, and after-
wards franked by members in favor of
suffrage to their constituents all over the
country. These documents have a great
educational influence. Do you ask me
whether a sixteenth amendment enfranchis-
ing women will be submitted by this Con-
gress? I do not think that two-thirds of the
members are yet educated up to it; but we
are doing our best to educate them.


THE UTAH EVENING.
	The evening of Jan. 27, was devoted to
the welcome of Utah. Senator Cannon
and wife, and Representative Allen and
wife, and others were on the platform.
The Senator had just arrived in the city,
and the formal recognition of the third star,
which gave particular lustre to the Con-
vention, had been postponed until his ar-
rival.
	After Miss Anthony’s greeting, Rev.
Anna Shaw tendered the welcome of the
Association. She said in part:
	The triumph of Utah is our triumph.
We too, should be congratulated. Every
Star added to the flag—that means all a
flag can mean to any human being in pro-
tection or rights, and is a guarantee of lib-
erty, means the e'evation of every human
being the round world over. It means
that we are beginning to learn that “One
is our Father, and all we are brethren.”
With the incoming of Utah with freedom
for every one of its citizens, not only Utah,
but the United States, and wherever there
breathes a human being, every soul is bene-
fited. This third star is a prophecy that
the stars shall come out on our banner un-
til our blue field will be a banner of glory.
We expected this of Utah. Their men
would have been unworthy sons had they
not done this. No man who has stood by
his mother and has seen the tolls, hopes,
and the time of seed-sowing of both ful-
filled in the hour of Statehood, would have
been a true son if he had refused to grant
her liberty with himself.
	These three stars are the gems on the
crown of our States. Wherever we go in
the West, and look toward Heaven, we
can see these three stars. I welcome you
as one of the three which makes glad the
heart of the woman who loves liberty.
Thrice welcome, grand Utah, not only to
our Republic of States, but to our Re-
public of stars that denote the only true
Republic the world has ever known.
	Senator Cannon eloquently responded
for Utah. He said:
	During the forty-nine years of life in
Utah the women had furnished the courage
and the trust in God. Then when the
question came up as to their enfranchise-
ment, we said “Yes, though it should
take another forty-nine years to gain our
Statehood.” The mother who bore me
endured the trials and privations of pioneer
life twelve years before I saw the light.
The women traveled across the desert with
bleeding feet; they drove the ox carts;
they lived on roots season after season to


[Column 1]
save their grain to plant that others might
have bread.
	In our territorial condition we gave wo-
men the ballot, but Congress took it away.
The first time the men of Utah had a
chance they gave it back again. The wo-
man suffragists of Utah could always get a
hearing when men could not.
	I would say to these sisters of the
National Association, that men do not, as a
rule, feel disinclined to suffrage because they
do not believe it is your right to vote, but
because they believe it is your right not to
vote. But they are beginning to believe in
suffrage, because they know that woman
has always carried the burdens of mankind.
A man who did not at first believe in wo-
man suffrage, said he read Parkhurst’s ar-
raignment of the city government, and he
noticed that while the professional men
laughed, the women held a meeting and
laid out their plan of attack, and the
proudest police captains bowed their heads.
Then he knew that woman was the power
needed to reform politics. In the great
essentials of the world, woman has always
been the burden bearer.
	Miss Anthony referred to Senator Brown,
who had not yet reached the city, as the
brother of Rev. Olympia Brown, who was
a life-long worker for woman suffrage. She
also said she would call on Representative
Allen to tell how it felt to have a wife as
good as he was. Mr. Allen made a very
bright speech. He referred to the great-
ness of Utah in resources, but her best
claim to greatness was in her people. She
had started right in giving the franchise to
that part of society which intrinsically
knows what is right. Utah greatly ap-
preciates this demonstration, made in honor
of its being third in the true and lasting
Union which is destined to grow stronger
year by year, until it shall conquer in
every State.
	Mrs. Sarah A. Boyer, of Springfield,
Utah, was next introduced. She made
some very good points, substantially as
follows:
	The question of woman Suffrage under-
lies all national progress. It means the
breaking down of every institution that
threatens to break down the home. A
century of progress has filled our prisons
and our insane asylums, and depraved the
morals of men. Something is wrong.
We need co-operation of men and women
in our government to perpetuate its virtues.
The Federal Union is to be congratulated
on the addition of so loyal and patriotic a
people as those of Utah. It is 45 years
since Utah became a Territory; women had
the ballot for seventeen years, and used it
well. In the midst of every struggle the
women of Utah had remained undaunted;
working together with men they will make
the name of Utah a synonym for progress.
	Mrs. Emily Richards, of Salt Lake City,
was the next speaker. She considered that
the putting a woman suffrage provision in
the State Constitution was the direct result
of the former temporary adoption of it. 
She said in part: 
	Throughout the history of Utah there
has been a growing tendency toward inde-
pendence, self-culture, and self-reliance
among women. The years in which wo-
men exercised the right of suffrage shows
that they prized their privilege and per-
formed their duties with fidelity. The
revocation of their ballot was regarded as
arbitrary and unwarranted: an injury to be
remedied, rather than acquiesced in. A

[Column 2]
church edict, and the Constitution had pro-
hibited polygamy, and the people had
aligned along lines representing national 
issues. There was such a fixed sentiment
in favor of woman suffrage that neither
party could ignore it. It was deeply im-
bedded in the political conscience, and as-
pirations of the people. Both Republican
and Democrats parties put it unequivocally
in their platforms. Notwithstanding this
the organized opposition of the liquor in-
terest was the nucleus around which various
forms of antagonism gathered, so that it
was necessary to present the cause before
the Convention with zeal and ability.
Still there was a minority of two members
of the committee who reported against
adopting woman suffrage on the ground
that by the vote of women the sphere of
church influence would be greatly augment-
ed. Such an issue could not but be in-
flammable in Utah, and it resulted in a
hand to hand conflict of debate; only a
slim majority standing firm to their pledges,
and the cause of women. But when it
was seen that the measure was bound to
carry the opposition crumbled away, so that
at the last the Convention was practically
unanimous for woman suffrage. It will be
difficult for the future historian to show,
from the records, how deeply woman’s
cause was imperilled. It was the opinion
of many judges and lawyers that women
were immediately entitled to vote. At the
beginning of the canvass the Republicans
had nominated three women on their State
ticket and the Democrats intended to do the
same, but before their Convention the Su-
preme Court decided that women could not
vote before the Constitution was adopted.
Women, however, still took a lively inter-
est in the campaign, and the Constitution
was adopted by more than 20,000 majority.
				—Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.

EAST JORDAN.
Editor Exponent.
	WEST JORDAN has again been divided
this time by the river into East and West
Jordan Wards. We had quite an enjoyable
time here Jan. 13th, being the day for the
organization of the Relief Society on this
side of the river, in East Jordan Ward.
Bishop Hyrum Goff and counselors John
P. Pearson and Joseph B. Wright took
charge of the meeting, assisted by Stake
President Mary Isabella Horne and Coun-
selors Annie T. Hyde and Clara C.
Cannon. Sisters Julia C. Howe and Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson came with them. After
some very interesting remarks by President
Horne and Bishop Goff, the following
Ladies were chosen and set apart as officers
of the Society. Agnes Cutler, President,
Maria Triphenice Goff, Hannah Anderson,
Counselors, Annie S. Cutler, Secretary,
Semira M. Goff, Ass’t. Secretary. Each of
those elected expressed a desire to do their
best in their several positions. After which
Sisters Horne, Howe and Stevenson spoke
words of encourgement to all present, with
interesting incidents of their past life and
great hope for the future. They were fol-
lowed by Bishop Goff who heartily com-
mended all that had been done. If I am
permitted to judge the feelings of those pre-
sent by my own, they each had “A feast of
reason and a flow of soul.”
Agnes Cutler, President.
Annie S. Cutler Secretary-


LEAP YEAR FIGURES.

	GENERALLY the month of February has
only 28 days, but this year, as every leap
year, has an additional day. This is well
known, but the reasons for this arrange-
ment may not be equally clear to all.
	According to the ancient Roman calendar
the months should have 31 and 30 days al-
ternately, but as this made the year too
long, the last day of February, the month
whose days were dedicated to the god of
death, was cut off. But when the sixth
month of the year (our August) had been
dedicated to the Emperor Augustus, the
astronomers found it disrespectful to the
memory of that ruler that this month should
have a day less than the fifth month which
was named after Julius Caesar (July) and
they agreed to add a day to August, and
this was again taken from February, leav-
ing only twenty-eight days for that month.
	By this arrangement the year received
365 days, but the fact is that the earth is
not able to complete its revolution around
the sun in that time but needs 5 hours, 48
minutes and 56 seconds more. As it would
be exceedingly inconvenient, however, to
commence the year at any other hour than
the beginning of the day, it was agreed to
add a day to every fourth year. This
makes each year 365 days and six hours,
which is 11 minutes and 10 seconds too
long. The error is small, but in the course
of 400 years it will amount to about three
days, and these must be disposed of in
some manner. The pope Gregory XIII
after deep calculation found that the error
of the Julian calendar amounted in the
year 1582 to ten days, the vernal equinox
falling on the 11th instead of the 21st of
March, and as this caused much coufusion
in religious festivals, a correction was found
necessary. He therefore ordained that ten
days should be deducted from that year by
calling the 5th of October the 15th, and in
order to prevent a further recurrence of a
similar necessity it was further ordained
that every hundredth year (1800, 1900, etc.)
should not be a leap year, except every
fourth hundredth, beginning with the year
2000. It will therefore be seen that only
every fourth year ending a century is a
leap year, as commonly every fourth year
is. It is nevertheless quite a notable event
that an interval of eight years occurs be-
tween two leap years. Generations will
pass away before it happens the next time,
which will be the period between 2096 and
2104.
	Those who celebrate their birthday on
the 29th day of February should bear in
mind this year that they will not have
another chance in eight years. Ex.


LADY ABERDEEN is a constant attendant
on the sessions of Parliament in Ottawa.
	She occupies a place beside the Speaker
in the House of Commons.
	IT is stated by Rev. Dr. Kephart, of
Dayton, O., editor of the Religious Tele-
scope, the organ of the United Brethren in
Christ, that since 1889 that denomination,
numbering more than 233,000, has admitted
women delegates to its General Conference
and to all its conferences of less degree and
the doctor is happy to report that the inno-
vation works admirably. He also states
that for many years previous to 1889,
women were admitted to the ministry and
accorded ordination on the same terms pre-
scribed for men.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVINGLY INSCRIBED.

            TO AUNT ZINA.
Beloved sister! Honored friend!
Most loving greetings I now send
On this auspicious day to you;
The anniversary of your birth
When Father sent you here on earth,
A great and noble work to do.
Among the choicest spirits there.
Our Father sought, with all wise care,
To choose thee for this earthly sphere,
He knew thy true integrity,
And all thy grand nobility,
Hence gave to thee a mission here.
And through these long eventful years.
You’ve shared with Saints their joys and tears
’Mid scenes of carnage strife and blood,
When persecution’s raging hand
Spread devastation through the land,
For right and truth you firmly stood.
Predestined by a Heavenly power,
You came at the “Eleventh hour”
In these the glorious Latter-days,
Now Zion’s daughters bless thy birth
And useful mission on the earth,
And for thy virtues give thee praise.
How oft thy gentle hand hath smoothed
Life’s rugged path—and kindly soothed
With healing touch the sick and sad,
And by thy loving sympathy
Left burdened hearts from sorrow free,
And made the troubled spirit glad.
And now while thousands grateful raise,
Their loving voices to thy praise
With words of approbation.
I too would add my humble lay
To those who now their tributes pay
in fond congratulation.
O may you live while life is sweet,
And all your noble works complete
Both for the dead and living.
To see the triumph of God's cause,
And deep submerged all unjust laws,
While man grows more forgiving.
And in the twinkling of an eye
Be changed at last with angels nigh,
To drink of “Living water.”
Receive thou, blessed of the Lord;
Thy glorious and just reward.
“Well done my faithful daughter.”
E.R. SHIPP.
Ann Arbor, Jan. 29th, 1893.


TO AUNT ZINA.

At Watertown in 'twenty one
Aunt Zina’s life on earth began,
Just five and seventy years ago,
Left heaven to dwell on earth below.
For goodly parents she with pride 
Can point to England’s sunny side,
As Champion of Queen Elizabeth,
Sir Edward Dymock met his death.
And ere on this dear land of ours,
Her fathers fought in sun and showers.
The Declaration too was signed
By Samuel Huntington, we find,
And when our land with war was sown
The Huntingtons’ there too were known
And dear Aunt Zina, brave and true,
Has always been a soldier blue.
She, of the mobbings in Nauvoo,
Has told the tale to me and you,
Of angels singing in Kirtland,
When mighty spirit swept the stand,
Filled the Temple with rushing wind
Aunt Zina was there then, we find.
Relief Societies she graced.


As Treasurer in the first was placed,
And then, as Counselor next we know
To beloved Aunt Eliza Snow.
They two have traveled far and wide,
Stood by each other, side by side.
In little ways unknown to man
Aunt Zina oft’ has raised her hand
To soothe the heart, the swollen eye,
When none but she and God were nigh.
She’s traveled o’er the dusty plain,
The desert hot, in hail and rain,
She talked where brethren could not
To brightest minds in this fair land.
She soothed the dying, closed their eyes,
And prayed to meet them in the skies.
With Prophets been a helpmate true,
And a kind, good counselor unto you.
Her days are spent in work divine, 
Yes every moment of her time
Is given to serve her Father, God.
And help us bow beneath the rod.
Ah, may we emulate her ways,
Ask God to bless her closing days,
And prove that we her teachings prize
By meeting her beyond the skies. 
May peace and health, and days increase
And joy and love on earth ne’er cease
May each and all, and every one
Thank God for dear Aunt Zina Young.
	MINNIE LOVELAND SNOW


U. W. P. C.

	On Thursday, Jan. 30th, this interesting
organization met as per adjournment at the
office of the Woman’s Exponent. Presi-
dent E. B. Wells in the chair. Meeting
opened with prayer by Elizabeth J. Steven-
son. Roll called and Minutes read and
approved. Miscellaneous business being
next in order C. C. R Wells made a motion
which was seconded by Ella W. Hyde, that
the President appoint a committee to pre-
pare suitable resolutions congratulating the
Utah Woman’s Press Club that one of its
members, Mrs. Isabella Cameron Brown,
is at present the recipient of Congressional
honors. The motion was carried unani-
mously, and R. B. Pratt, E. R. Shipp and
L. D. Alder were named as a Committee.
Another motion was made and car-
ried that the same Committee should
make honorable mention of the 75th birth-
day of Zina D. H. Young, the honored
President of the N. W. R. S., and that
such Resolutions should be recorded in the
minutes. The financial report for the last
two years was then read by Treasurer C.
C. R. Wells. A motion was made and
carried that the report be accepted with
specifications. A motion that Antoinette
Brown Kinney be admitted to membership
was carried unanimously. The chairman
of the Program Committee, Ruth M. Fox,
reported work done for three months. Ella
W. Hyde moved, that as their labors were
not very onerous and as they were a very
efficient Committee, that they continue in
office another three months—motion carried.
	The regular program began by reading
of the 1st Chapter of Parliamentary Law by
Ella W. Hyde, followed by a discussion
and review of the Chapter by the mem-
bers. Phœbe C. Young then read a very
interesting paper on Herbert Spencer—the
merits and demerits of which were discuss-
ed by the Club. Single Tax was the sub-
ject of the next paper prepared and read by
Dr. R. B. Pratt. Meeting adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Lydia D. Alder.
				E. R. Shipp Rec. Sec.


THE LEAPING OF THE LEAP
YEARS.

[Essex Telegraph, England, Jan. 4th,]
	THE year upon which we have just
entered is leap year, and the ladies who
feel disposed to avail themselves of the
traditional privilege that leap year confers
will do well to remember that the op-
portunity presented by 1896 will not recur
until 1904. For the next eight years the
“February days” of the old rhyme will be
“twenty-eight,” and there will be no day
added to make them twenty-nine. New-
comers into the world on the twenty-ninth
of next February will therefore, strictly
speaking, be unable to celebrate their birth-
day for eight years. Why is it that leap
year is thus about to take so long a leap?
Most of our readers, of course, know the
meaning of leap year. Our year represents
the period of 365 days occupied by the
earth in its mighty journey of six hundred
millions of miles round the sun. If the
journey were performed in exactly 365 days
there would be no leap year, but it occupies
a little longer, viz, five hours, 48 minutes,
56 seconds, or within 11 minutes, 14
seconds of a quarter of a day. In four
years these extras amount to about 23¼
hours, and, in order that the seasons may
not in course of time be put out of joint, a
whole day is added every fourth year to
February. This roughly balances mat-
ters. But when we thus add a
whole day and have only 23¼ hours to do
it with, it is obvious that we have gone too far.
Our account upon the bank of time is over-
drawn to the extent of 11 minutes, 14
seconds a year, or three-quarters of an hour
every four years, and at the end of 128
years we have in this way given to our past 
Februarys a whole day. At this rate we
should in 400 years be three days behind.
How are we to balance the account? It is
clear that if we go on adding a twenty-ninth
day of February every four years the
world will some day be celebrating its
Christmas under mid-summer skies. The
bnisness is thus managed. In three suc-
cessive century years, which would other-
wise be leap years, February has to do with-
out its twenty-ninth day. When the
fourth century year comes around it is
again leap year. Thus we take back every
400 years the three days we have been giv-
ing away to make up the “twenty-ninth”
days of February. The year 1900 is the
last of three successive centurial years with-
out a 29 day. The year 1600 was leap
year; 1700 and 1800 were not, nor will 1900
be. By this method the commencement of
the year will not vary more than one day
from its present place in 200 centuries.
even such a variation would tell in time,
but no doubt the beings who people the
world in that “dim and distant future”
will be equal to the occasion.


MISS JENNIE YOUNG, of Scotland, has
been in Mexico for some time, arranging
for the purchase of land for a large Scotch
colony, which, she intends soon to bring
over.
	THE SUPREME Court of Ohio, in the case
of Bird F. Mills vs. the Board of Elections,
decided on Feb. 8 that the statute giving
women the right to vote at school elections
is valid and constitutional.


116 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,   -     -     Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
Second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY FEBRUARY 15, 1896.


A WOMAN ON THE SCHOOL BOARD.

	THE women of the new State of Utah
have good reason to be proud of the recent
appointment of Mrs. Cornelia Horne Clayton
upon the school board for Provo. Mrs.
Clayton is a most estimable woman and
well qualified for the position, both by
nature and education: her parents came to
the valley in 1847, and may with all due
propriety be termed pioneers. The lady
was born, raised and educated in Salt Lake
City, and was always in her girlhood con-
sidered strong-minded; later she matured
into a practical young woman with excellent
judgment and good executive ability; she
was a special favorite with the members of
the ‘Wasatch” a literary society of young
people that was very popular in the ‘70’s”,
and among them were some brilliant,
talented and clever young girls and boys,
who have since filled positions of honor and
trust.
	The editor of the Exponent has great
pleasure in offering congratulations to Mrs.
Clayton remembering with sincere affection
the many happy days when they were
associated together in the office, and the
agreeable companionship always maintained
and it is not surprising to the writer that
the former business manager has attained
to the distinction of filling this honorable
position, and fully expects she will yet
occupy other places of emolument and
trust in the gift of the people. Success to
the cause of equal suffrage, women as well
as men should receive some of the honors
in the new state.


WOMEN CAN HELP.
	IT appears very desirable that the women
of the State who are now invested with
equal civil and political rights with men,
should interest themselves in all public
questious and become acquainted with all
the conditions surrounding the people, or
those that are likely to be the result of any
further legislative enactments. The daily
papers furnish most of the minutes of the
Legislature in both houses, and also pro-
ceedings of the City Council, so that it is
comparatively an easy matter to read up
and become familiar with what these of-
ficial representatives are doing, for the
future welfare of the new commonwealth.
	But a better plan is to go into the Legis
lature as often as possible and listen and
give countenance to the work being ac-
complished, that is in keeping with all the


new conditions and, watch the various bills
introduced and be able to talk intelligently
about the action taken and whether it will
be favorable or unfavorable to the growth
and progress of the new State.
 It was anticipated that women would
occupy seats in the first Legislature of Utah
but being disappointed in this should not
make women indifferent as to the work be-
ing accomplished by men alone; and as
some recognition has been accorded in hav-
ing a woman occupy the position of Chief
Clerk of the Senate, it cannot be denied
some honor has been shown, and the fact
that a woman signed the official papers
that entitled the U. S. Senators from Utah to
seats in the Senate of the United States is
worthy of note and of record and is a mat-
ter of congratulation and of pride to all
women everywhere, who are working for
equal political privileges.
 There have been several bills introduced
into the House and Senate, that are quite
far-reaching and serious in their bearing
and consequences upon the community,
and although women are not permitted to
have a voice in the assembly they can be
heard before Committees to whom these
bills are referred, and they can influence
men perhaps by their persuasive eloquence,
or sound logic in private interviews with
members, and thus bring about desirable
results; changes or modifications in objec-
tionable measures.
 Certainly the presence of women in the
session of the Senate the day the bill for
the age of consent was passed, produced the
desired effect without the arguments being
raised that otherwise would have been
brought forward to lower the age.
 There are many reasons why women
should show themselves interested in the
Legislature, which should be apparent to
all who desire the future welfare and
prosperity of the people of the new state,
and these things should be made a study by
all thinking women who are looking to the
great future and expecting better laws, bet-
ter governments and better conditions for
the world of humanity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	REPORTS received to date are Bear Lake,
Cassia, Emery, Iosepa, Kanab, Maricopa,
Parowan, San Luis, Sevier, St. George,
Star Valley, St. Joseph, Snowflake, Cache,
Summit, Uintah, Wayne, Morgan, eighteen
in all.
	MISS LUCY E. ANTHONY was the guest
of honor at the Woman’s Suffrage Club
in the parlors of the Golden Gate Hall
in San Francisco on Tuesday Feb. 11th.
Miss Anthony is the niece of Miss Susan B.
Anthony of world-wide fame, and is a
very sweet mannered and lovable young
woman. She is also very capable in all
executive work, and when she does speak
has something of consequence to say. She
does not pose as a public speaker although
she possesses the ability and has a thorough
knowledge of the equal suffrage work


[Column 1]
		ANNA LOWRIE IVINS.

	ANNA LOWRIE IVINS, the daughter of
Caleb Ivins and Edith Ridgway, was born
November 18, 1816, in Philadelphia. She
had four brothers and three sisters. Her
father died when she was eleven years of
age and her mother died when she was fif-

[Column 2]
teen, after which she lived with her grand-
father until she was married, by Jedediah
M. Grant to Israel Ivins, March 19, 1844.
She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints about 1838. She was
the mother of three children, Caroline
Augusta, born at Tomsriver, N. J., Georg-
ianna, born in New York City and died there
in infancy, Anthony W. Ivins was born at
Tomsriver in 1852. In 1853 they moved
to Utah, and 1861 came to St. George.
She was the first President of the Relief
Society, and has been Stake President of
the same society about twenty years.
Her life has been a very useful and respect-
ed one. She died on the 10th of January,
1896, of general debility, and passed away,
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She leaves a husband, one son, eleven
grand-children and a host of friends to
mourn her loss.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
 
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
St. George Stake Relief Society, and her fellow-
laborers in the St. George Temple to the memory
of Anna L. Ivins, who died from the effects of old
age and general debility, Friday, Jan. 10th, 1896,
at her residence in St. George.
	Whereas:—God, in his infinite mercy and
wisdom, has seen fit to take unto himself our be-
loved sister and co-laborer, Sister Anna L.
Ivins.
	Resolved: That we mourn, in the death of
Sister Ivins, the loss of a faithful and much be-
loved president, both of the Fourth St. George
Ward, and the Stake Relief Society; a devoted
worker in the Temple, a friend and helper to all,
a loving wife and mother, and a sterling Latter-
day Saint, whose laudable example we might
all emulate with profit.
	Resolved: That we sympathize and sincerely
mourn with the aged and bereaved husband, the
children, grand children and friends in the loss of
a devoted wife and mother and a sincere and
charitable friend.
	Resolved: That these resolutions be read at
the anniversary meeting of the seventy-fifth
birthday of President Zina D. H. Young: that
they be spread upon the records of the Fourth
Ward and Stake Relief Society: that a copy be
sent to the bereaved family and that they be
published in full in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	ANN C. WOODBURY, MARY ANN WOODWARD,
EMMA MORRIS, BARBARA MATHIS, Committee.
			JULIA A. MACDONALD Cor. Sec.

	Elder Anthony W. Ivins, son of the
deceased, arrived at St. George in the early
morning having come all the way from
Mexico via Salt Lake City after receiving
the news of the death of his moth[-]r by tele-
graph. He was accompanied by his cousin
Apostle Heber J. Grant. The funeral
services were held at one o’clock the same
day in the Tabernacle, Bishop Thomas P.
Cottam presiding. The choir sang “Earth-
ly happiness is fleeting.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Charles Smith, the choir
rendered the hymn “Come ye disconsolate
etc.” Brother George Woodward, member
of the High Council, was the first speaker,
said he had known Sister Ivins—who did
not change her name by marrying—nearly
all his life. They lived in the same neigh-
borhood. They were well off. Had a
small farm and mill and were well respec-
ted. They went to school together. He
had always respected her and when the
Gospel was brought to that neighborhood
by Jedediah M. Grant, they received it
with gladness. Spoke of her in a very
high and estimable manner. She was a
very amiable lady from her youth up, and
had worn herself out in doing good.
	James G. Bleak, also a member of the
High Council and assistant to the President
of the St. George Temple and fellow laborer
with Sister Ivins in that place, said it had


[Column 1]
been truly said that she lived in the hearts
of those who knew her. A number of us
have known her about half her life. Said
she died in her eightieth year. She has
labored in St. George Temple nearly one
fourth of her life, and her fellow laborers
there are not, in their feelings, prepared to
part with her and if this sister has ever
spoken a word against any Brother or Sis-
ter, my ears have never heard it. All these
decorations, the wreaths of flowers and the
preparations for this service, show that she
lived in the hearts of the people. There is
not a blessing or a promise that God has
placed in the hands of his servants to give
to mortals on earth, bnt that has been plac-
ed upon the head of this Sister and her
partner who is left behind to mourn her loss.
May God comfort and bless him. We do
not mourn as others of the world do. Spoke
in thankfulness to God that her son, whom
we all so dearly love, is here to see her laid
peacefully away.
	David H. Cannon, President of the St.
George Temple, said that it was with pecu-
liar feelings that he attempted to address
the people, because of the separation from
Sister Ivins. He said he oft-times thought
we put off eulogizing our friends until they
pass away and then speak of their valuable
qualities when it will do them no good.
	We mourn because of our mortal separa-
tion, but we look forward to the glorious
resurrection, to that union which we look
forward to with such fond anticipation.
She always had a mantle of charity to throw
over the faults of others.
	Our meeting to-day shows how highly
she was esteemed by the people, and what
to us is a loss, to her is a gain and that
stepping from this stage of action is only
like stepping from one room to another, and
there is in reality no cause for us to mourn;
and, without a doubt, she has already been
greeted by some whom she has officiated for
in holy places. He asked that the bless-
ings of God might be poured out upon
Brother Ivins and the whole family.
	President D. D. McArthur said he could
not help but rejoice for the condition of
Sister Ivins. We have many of our old
people passing away in peace, having lived
faithful all their days. Spoke of the joy
we should have in laying our loved ones by
in their peaceful quiet graves. Spoke of
the way the saints when traveling, had to
lay away members of their families by the
way. He rejoiced that his father and mo-
ther had laid their bodies down in peace
among the saints of God. He was sure
that Sister Ivins had gone to paradise and.
God, and all is well with her.
	Her example has been of the very best—
let us follow it. The servants of God are
giving us good counsel and advise all the
time. Let us follow it that we may be
worthy of the blessings God has in store for
us. He rejoiced that Sister Ivins and our
old brethren and sisters, who are passing
away, are laying their bodies down with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant desired the faith
of the saints that he might be able to con-
trol his feelings. As it has been said there
is nothing we can do to benefit Sister Ivins;
he bore his testimony that there is nothing in
the power of man to give that has not been
sealed upon her head. Read from the 76th
Section of the Doctrine and Covenants,
commencing at the 50th verse, and he
beautifully portrayed the glory that is to be
given to those who serve the Lord faithfully

[Column 2]
and are valiant for the word of God. He
bore testimony that Sister Ivins had made
all the sacrifice that God had required at
her hand. Said that the same blessings
that were promised to man on earth through
their faithfulness, are just as applicable to
the faithful sisters, and Sister Ivins so or-
dered her life that she is entitled to be
redeemed. She has redeemed her dead snd
has the knowledge that her labors have
been accepted and that she has been a
savior in very deed. It is just as natural
we should die as it is we should be born.
	He prayed that the spirit of God might
comfort the bereaved family. Said there
really was no cause for sorrow at the loss
of Sister Ivins, but still we do mourn for
her present loss. Prayed that we might be
as faithful as Sister Ivins.
	Bishop T P. Cottam announced that all
who desired to view the remains, would
please go to the north side of the building,
view the remains and pass out at the south
door.
	The choir sang "Lead me gently home,
Father." Benediction by Richard Bentley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


TO THE SISTERS.
	SOME preparations have been carefully
made by Sister Emma Empey, wife of
Bishop N. A. Empey of the Thirteenth
Ward, to accommodate sisters from the coun-
try who desire to come and work in the Tem-
ple. The rooms are located just back of
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms and are
neatly furnished for light housekeeping.
	Everything is new, clean and neat.
One dollar for each person per week
including coal and lights and conveniences
for cooking on a small scale.


[Column 1]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Jan.
11th, 1896, Mrs. E. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “All hail the new born year,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing
“Come let us anew,” etc. Minutes of the
previous meeting were read and accepted.
Sister E. Stevenson made a few opening re-
marks, said she felt very much disappointed
at not having our President Sister Horne
with us to-day, felt there were enough here
to have a good time. Since last we met
many things had happened, one very im-
portant thing “STATEHOOD.” We should
acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. Said the Prophet Joseph Smith
told President John Taylor he would give
him a key word that would prevent him
from ever apostatizing. It was to each
morning dedicate himself to the Lord,
which he faithfully did. The speaker
strongly disapproved of speaking against
the Lord’s anointed. Prayed the Spirit of
God to be with us and go from heart to
heart.
	Singing “Reedemer of Israel.” Sister
Barnes felt it a dangerous thing to speak
against one of God’s prophets; was glad to
be numbered one with the Church.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said it seemed a
long time since she had looked on the dear
faces of her sisters and that these meetings
were like a beacon light to her; many had
come here and been comforted and been able
to go home and bless their families. These
meetings had been instituted by Brigham
Young. “O my sisters be humble, if ever

[Column 2]
the sisters needed humility and wisdom it
is now. God loves a smiling face and a
cheerful spirit.” She said we little knew
of the fasting and prayer of our brethren for
wisdom and the power of God; felt we were
in the beginning of a new era. Spoke
strongly of dedicating ourselves to the Lord,
said she often thought of the favorite speech
of President John Taylor that “The Lord
God Omnipotent reigneth.” Asked God’s
blessing to rest upon us.
	A Sister said four years ago she left her
home father and mother for the gospel but
had found them all here; in the last year she
had had many trials but had also many
blessings. Bore a strong testimony. Sister
J. C. Howe felt the Spirit of God was here
in great abundance. Was glad to hear the
last speaker express her gratitude. Said
these meetings had been a great blessing to
her. Had come here many times cast down
and in trouble but had gone away comfort-
ed and feeling ten years younger. The
gospel was sweeter to her than any thing
else. Referred to the sisters having the
FRANCHIISE and knew they would vote for
good men; said to never miss our prayers.
Asked God to bless us all. Sister Louie
Stevenson said we should teach our child-
ren by example as well as words; felt it
was good to have trials for it was through
them that blessings came. When we attend-
ed to our prayers the Spirit of God would
never leave us. Prayed we might have all
the righteous desires of our hearts.
	Sister Mary Silver bore her testimony
and hoped she would be able to endure to
the end. Sister Mary Gurber said she had
come from Germany and left every thing
for the gospel. Had been a member of the
Church 33 years, felt very grateful for the
blessings she enjoyed although she had
many trials. Was blessed and strengthen-
ed every time she came to these meetings.
Gave a report of her Primary Association;
said she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society felt thankful for it, knew
Satan was trying to over turn our efforts for
good. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister M. Wilcox felt it a privilege to
meet here with her sisters; bore a strong
testimony said we could see the hand of the
Lord over us for good. We should ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord at all
times. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer,
felt we owed a debt of gratitude to God for
his goodness to us. Asked God to bless us
all. Sister Rawlings felt to ask God to
bless her said she wae afflicted very much
with rheumatism altho’ she had great faith;
bore her testimony, felt it a great privilege
to do work in the Holy Temple. Sister
Phelps said she had a testimony to bear,
her desire was to be faithful. It filled her
heart with joy to see so many young men
called into the field. Prayed continually to
God that He would go with them and pro-
tect them and fill them with the Spirit of
their mission; if they kept themselves pure
they would have power to command the ele-
ments. Sister Morris said if we became a
united band of sisters we could do much;
we must ever be watchful and prayerful.
Asked God to bless us and help us to be
faithful.
	Singing “There’s a feast of fat things,”
etc. Sister L. D. Alder desired to add her
testimony with the others, wondered how
many of us were living as we should: said
the song just sung brought these thoughts
to her mind. Tell at these meetings we
were fed by the bread of life; here we could


speak one to another. Many had passed
behind the vail, knew that God was at the
helm. Tell that we were all trying to do
what was right. Prayed that we might be
in touch with God and always trust him.
Sister Brown had enjoyed the meeting so
much; said the first thing she did in the
morning was to dedicate herself to the Lord
and it was a great help to her. Trials
brought us nearer to the Lord. Prayed
God to be always with us but especially this
coming year. Sister E. Ball said the
Spirit whispered to her and asked her if
she had not something to thank her Heaven-
ly Father for; she said "Yes much.” Spoke
of her ill health, but knew she was improv
ing. God was good to her in giving her
the things that were best for her to have.
Thought we were living in a glorious time,
our women are pure and the prayers of the
daughters of Zion will be heard and an-
swered.
	Sister Stevenson made some closing re-
marks. Urged the sisters to come to the
Temple and spoke of the very small com-
panies. Prayed God to inspire the people
to Temple work. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Sister E.
S. Taylor.
Zina Hyde Ass’t. Sec


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 15th Conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion,
held Jan. 12th, 1896., President Pope
presiding. Singing “Come Holy Spirit
heavenly dove.” Prayer by Counselor A.
K. Bartlett. Singing “Lord Thou wilt
hear me.” Minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. Brother Enos Bennion
felt it a great responsibility to undertake to
teach the Gospel. The Sisters have the
greatest responsibility in training the child-
ren, therefore they should have the Spirit
of the Lord. Nothing should be given the
preference ahead of making impressions up-
on the minds of the young. Sister Abbie
Oaks felt much pleased to be able to meet
with the Saints on this occasion. Our
children are our hope and we would all
like to have them make good men and
women. Took much pleasure in visiting
the Primary, for all her interest was there.
	Brother Anderson said the Relief Society
was one of the factors of the Church to help
build it up; spoke about circumstances
that brought about its organization, and
the duties pertaining thereto. Counselor
Mary Hall spoke about storing up grain
for time of need; also of the bad impressions
made upon the minds of the young by bad
pictures such as those that are got from
cigarette packages. Sister Sarah Coltin
thought the brethren should lend the sisters
a helping hand in doing their duties, and
help them to get to their meetings; spoke
of the duties devolving upon the Sunday
school teachers. Counselor A. K, Bartlett
thought woman’s mission had been beauti-
fully illustrated this afternoon; felt to en-
dorse what had been said, read a revelation
from the Doctrine and Covenants, and
spoke at some length on the same. Meet
ing adjourned untill 7 o’clock. Singing
“Lo the mighty God appearing. ” Benedic-
tion by Brother Nelson Merkley.
	EVENING SESSION: Singing “Come thou
glorious day of promise.” Prayer by
Brother Charles Bartlett. Singing “Joy to

[Column 2]
the world the Lord will come.” A statis-
tical and financial report was read and the
general and local authorities were sustained.
Brother Sterling Cotton said the Relie
Society was doing a great and grand wor
and one which all should be interested in.
When we realize the importance of the
work of God, we can well afford to spend
our time to help build it up Brother R.
S. Collett said we should not let the paltry
dollar take the lead of our minds. It is
very difficult to overcome the desires of the
flesh, nevertheless we should strive with all
our might to do so. Spoke at some length
upon different subjects which were very in-
teresting. Brother Sowards said if we
could realize the beauties of the future we
would not be as neglectful as we are.
What a consolation it is to contemplate on
the greatness of the Gospel. When we are
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord we do
not have malice in our hearts, but a broth-
erly feeling towards all. President Pope
had been much pleased with the conference,
made a few closing remarks and the confer-
ence adjourned. Singing “This earth was
once a garden place.” Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
				Sarah Pope, President.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held in the 14th
Ward Hall Jan. 21st, 1896. Roll call,
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
Song, “The reason why.” Prayer by Jane
Albrand. Song, “New America.” Mo-
tion of Mrs. Fewson Smith to adjourn the
meeting and attend the State Legislature to
see the election of the State Senators, lost
and the meeting continued. Rights of
States read by Secretary and reviewed by
President Kate Groesbeck. Elizabeth Mc-
Farlane requested to write an essay On
“What are the rights and immunities of
citizenship.’’ One lady spoke of girls being
dilatory in regard to taking part in politics
because their brothers and beaux objected
to women in politics. Amanda Hook
thought if girls understood the necessity of
informing themselves on questions pertain-
ing to women’s welfare, they would think
differently. Did she consider her brother or
her beau as something better than herself,
that he should enjoy more privileges than
she? and said the first duty of woman is
honorable motherhood which we must not
forget to impress upon the minds of our
daughters; for without mothers we cannot
have either home or state. We should
thoroughly understand the Constitution of
the State that we may know our rights un-
der it, and ask our Lesislators to pass laws
that will be just and benefit our women and
that will not be misconstrued. A commit-
tee was formed to pass resolutions and call
on the President of the Association and en-
quire into the law on “A wife’s dower, and
her right to hold and control property in
conjunction with her husband.” Adjourn-
ed for one month.
	Cassie C. Newman, Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

Editor Exponent.
	ON Feb. 4th the Relief Society of Mink-
Creek Idaho made a surprise for Sister
Ingrid Graham, the President of the Society.
About two hundred people were assembled


at the Town Hall. When Sister Graham
was brought to the Hall by Brother Gra-
ham, both of her Counselors came down
and escorted her to an upper room where
tables were set with the good things of the
earth. It being Sister Graham’s 57th birth
day many congratulations were accorded
her and amidst music and many good wish-
es she was escorted to the head of the table
where she was seated among her children
and grand-children on one side and the
Bishopric on the other; at the same time
she was presented with a rocking chair as a
token of respect for her services among the
sisters. After all had participated of the
good things set on the table, a program of
singing, music, recitations and speeches
indulged in till towards evening when all
separated pleased and happy with the gather-
ing, wishing each other many such gather-
ings in the future. Yours very respectfully,
	HILDA M. GRAHAM.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	SISTER MARY BAXTER was given a
pleasant surprise, by a few of her friends on
the twelfth inst., the event being the seven-
tieth anniversary of her birthday.
	She was presented with a beautiful chair
as a token of love and esteem, and appre-
ciation of her good works.
	Sister Baxter acted as President of the
Relief Society of Spanish Fork for fourteen
years before the wards were divided. She is
now acting as one of the Vice-Presidents of
the fourth ward, and is honored and respect-
ed by all who know her.
	After presenting her with the chair, an.
impromptu program was rendered in
which were many congratulations and good
wishes given Sister Baxter. A grand ban-
quet was then given and about eighty
persons partook of the bounties of life.
	Among those present were the Bishop of
the fourth ward and his counselors, and a
few leading brethren of the ward, also
sisters who have labored with Sister Baxter
for a number of years.
	About five o’clock the company dispersed
feeling that they had a very enjoyable time 
one long to be remembered by those pre-
sent.
	AGNES LEWIS.


SWISS AND GERMAN

	THE First Presidency has procured from
the president of the Swiss and German
mission, through President Lund, a list of
nearly 500 names of faithful Saints of that
division of the Church abroad who have
died in the lands of their nativity. The
purpose of obtaining this information was
that temple work might be done for these
worthy people by their friends and relatives
who have gathered to this country.
	In order that those who are willing to
take an active part in attaining the object
herein set forth may have the requisite in-
formation, the names of the deceased, un -
der the head of the branches of the Church
to which they belong, will be published in
consecutive issues, of the Beobachter, be-
ginning with that of Friday, Jan. 24.
	It is likely that ordinance work has al-
ready been done in the temples for some of
those who are listed. Where such is the
case those who have performed it will con-
fer a favor by giving particulars, that the


necessary checking may be done upon the
original list. This information is necessary,
in order to avoid repetition of work. After
it is furnished, lists can be obtained by those
who desire to take part in performing the
needed labor for the benefit of the faithful
dead, in any of the temples. 
	All communications on the subject should
be directed to John Nicholson, Salt Lake
Temple, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last busi.
ness meeting of the Board of Directors of
the National Woman’s Relief Society, a
quorum being present, it was decided that
the annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of dat-
ing from the first day of January to the last
day of December inclusive, reports will be
hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or other-
wise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of the
Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt Take
City, not later than the 20th of February.
	MISS Mary E. CUTLER, of Holliston,
Mass., read the paper of the day at the
Farmers’ Meeting in this city recently.
Her subject was "The Profits of Garden-
ing." From a successful experience of
eleven years in raising fruits and vege-
tables for market, she drew the conclusion
that gardening can be made both pleasant
and profitable. Through the sudden death
of her father, Miss Cutler found herself in
possession of sixty-eight acres. She gave
up teaching and determined to keep her
home and to carry on her farm. The inter-
esting story she told of her forcing house
and hotbeds, her nursery stock, her market
garden, her small fruits and peach orchard,
shows that she puts brains into her work.
She has good judgment and business ability,
and believes in hard work, method and
wise economy. Mrs. Olive Wright, of
Denver, who was present, told of Mrs.
Kate Harlow, a well known fruit-grower
in Colorado, and a successful farmer. When
asked how she fertilized her peach orchard,
she replied, "I feed the trees with hard
work and good common sense.
	MRS. HIRST ALEXANDER, a well-known
Australian journalist, now making a short
visit in London, says that marked good
effects have followed the enfranchisement of
women in New Zealand. The Premier of New
Zealand. Hon. Richard J. Seddon, and the
principal journals have all acknowledged,
she says, that the influence of women dur-
ing the election, and after, has been
beneficial. The women have turned their
attention to ameliorating the conditions of
prisons, promoting the welfare of children
and other measures with which they are
qualified to deal. Giving the vote to wo-
men has in no wise disturbed the even tenor
of their domestic ways, and there is no
symptom that it has rendered them at all
"mannish.” The New Zealand govern-
ment has opened a Woman’s Labor Bureau

[Column 2]
in Wellington, with a woman as manager.
Several lady doctors have a good practice,
and Mrs. Alexander spoke with justifiable
pride of the good record made by women,
at the recent examination at the Melbourne
University. where they stood at the head of
several class lists, and carried off a large
percentage of the honors open to men and
women alike.
	MISS OLAFIA JOHNSDOTTER is a brilliant 
young woman, who has come to the front
in Iceland. At a convention called by the
speaker of the Althing, at the ancient seat
of Laws, to discuss issues of importance,
Miss Olafia was elected to represent the
Woman’s Political Society, which was or-
ganized in 1894. She mounted her sturdy
pony and set her face toward the old capi-
tal, forty miles distant, over a rough and
trying road. Though delegated by her
society she was not entitled to a seat, but
the men recognized that she had a constitu-
ency, and she was made a voting member
of the convention. She is president of the
Iceland W. C. T. U., and carries on an in-
surance business. It was in her "neat,
well furnished office" that Miss Jessie
Ackerman found her, and learned of her
work. In order to study the methods of
the shcools in Denmark, she journeyed
there and remained fifteen months. “Later
I went to Norway. the land of my ances-
tors," said Miss Johnsdotter, "where I be-
came acquainted with a women who was
agent for a New York Insurance Company.
She had made a great success of the busi-
ness there, and I was asked to take the
general agency for Iceland, which I did.
There was one insurance agency here, but I
desired to make a departure and see what a
woman could do along business lines. At
first there were many unfavorable com-
ments, but, as I succeeded, nothing is
thought of it now." Ex.


[Column 1
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	When I was a girl we knew exactly
what the Lord created women for;
they were to take care of the household, at-
tend to the cooking etc. that was the cus-
tomary work of women. In fact as far as
cooking was concerned we believed it to be
our sphere, but you look out on the world
to day, who are the cooks from one end of
our nation to the other, there is not a wo-
man cook anywhere; the hotels, restaurants
and in the homes of the wealthy all are
men. Why is it? Let me give you a
receipt by which you can always tell.
	Whenever you pay a dollar and a half a
week for anything that is woman’s sphere,
always woman’s sphere no matter what it
is; but to day we pay to cooks from one to
ten thousand dollars a year. Some of the
cooks receive exactly the same salary as the
President of Harvard University. Now
when you pay from one to ten thousand
dollars a year for any kind of service that
is man’s work and the reason why men are
cooking to-day is not because it is man’s
work anymore than it is woman’s work, it
is because it pays, that is all; and wherever
work pays there you find men. Women in
that sphere are always called cooks but you
could not insult a man more than to call
him a cook, he is a Professor of the Culinary
art; one is a woman and the other is a man.
(Laughter.) When I wa[-] a girl the dining-

[Column 2]
room girls were women, but to-day the
table girls are no longer girls, they are six
feet high and two feet broad dressed in
swallow-tailed coats. (Laughter.) To-day
the washer women have no place, they are
all men. When I was in the office of an
eastern laundry not very long ago I saw a
picture hanging on the wall and I counted
the number of persons on the picture and
there were seven women and two hundred
men. It was a group picture of a conven-
tion of the Laundrymen’s Association. So
you see when men take to washing for a
living they are so proud of it that they have
to have their pictures taken; you never heard
of a washerwoman having her picture taken.
	Then again, Dressmaking used to be a
very good employment for women when I
was young, but to-day in every city in the
world the leading Dressmakers are all men
and a woman will not be able to decide
what she shall do until a man over in Paris
settles it for her. If he says all skirts
should be made with godets and bias, why
godets it is and men dressmakers are ex-
cellent. I never had any experience with
a man dressmaker until this last spring and
then I had two gowns made by a man
dressmaker and I will say it is divine, it is
lovely because he will let you have pockets.
	The gown I have on was made by a man
dressmaker and one thing I do need is a
pocket. I have gone to the dressmaker
with the utmost fear in my soul, please
may I be permitted to have a pocket? And
then the dressmaker would look at me in
snch a superior manner and say: “There is
no place for a pocket.” When I said to
this man dressmaker, “Please may I have
a pocket”? He said “Yes.” I took cour-
age and said: “May I have two?” He
said; “As many as you wish.” and I said;
“If I can have three.” So I have three
pockets in my gown and I have quite a time
hunting things for I put something in each
pocket.
	Not only are all the dressmakers of the
country men to-day, but the milliners of the
country are all men. I have a friend who
has a very large millinery establishment
and he has twenty trimmers—not a woman
in the store, and if there is anything comic-
al it is to see a man weighing 350 pounds
trimming a tiny bit of a bonnet and using
his fist for a model. So gentlemen, I
would like to ask you where is our sphere?
	You’ve got it. (Laughter.) We are not
complaining about it, there is not a
woman of us has found any fault, I believe
a man has as much right to be a washer-
woman as a woman has. We women are
not complaining. Why should you men
feel that the moment a woman does any-
thing that women always have done, and
men have not done when it is remunerative
employment that she is out of her sphere.
	If there is anything in my sphere that a
man wants even if it is my washtub he can
have it.
	Take the world altogether my belief of
the future is this, that when men and
women are free and the boys and girls stand
on the border of life side by side in the
same home where God puts them and look
out into the great world of progress, I hope
the time will come when we can say to the
girl child as well as the boy child, “God
has given you powers go out and develop
them, and wherever your heart leads follow
on the work of the world’s redemption as
your work as well as the work of your
brothers, and I believe the best work will


[Column 1]
never be done by men alone or by women
alone and it will never be done until men
and women are free to do the best that God
has made it possible for them to do. We
don’t want men to divide their powers with
us but we do want men to give up our
power which they have taken away from
us. You might as well say if a man with
an extinguished torch had asked a lawyer to
permit him to light his torch by his, that it
would be dividing his light, not only would
it be doubling his light but the light that
the other had taken from him. I see your
good friend Mr. Roberts states it will be
but doubling the vote. I do not think Mr.
Roberts would care very much or be very
sorry if it should double his party vote.
(Applause.) And isn’t it so astonishing
that men do so hate to have women double
their vote and they will fairly go on their
knees to buy out men to double their vote.
(Laughter.)
	Now if it be true that women would help
the most vicious element of society why
does the vicious element of society oppose
woman’s suffrage. Go where you will you
will find the most ignorant and vicious class
of people opposed to woman’s suffrage.
	I would risk my reputation as a prophet
by declaring the largest vote for Woman
Suffrage would be where there was the
greatest intelligence and the largest vote
against it would be where there was least
intelligence. In the state of Kansas at the
last election it was this way and the heavi-
est vote cast against it was by the liquor
league of the state and next to the liquor
men it was the negroes of the state the men
for whom the women of this country sacri-
ficed so much, the men without the women
of this country could never have been freed
the men who were freed because a woman
loving humanity as well as loving one’s
child, sat by the cradle of her baby boy
while she rocked the cradle with her foot
used her hands to write Uncle Tom’s Cabin
and send it out on the wings of freedom
and the seed of liberty was planted in the
hearts of our countrymen. I believe that
Abraham Lincoln would never have been
able to sign the Emancipation Proclamation
had it not been that Uncle Tom’s Cabin
went out before and paved the way in the
hearts of American men and women, (ap-
plause.) And yet these men who won their
freedom by the sacrifice of women were the
men who cast the largest vote against Wo-
man’s Suffrage. It is what slavery always
produces, those who have been slaves when
they have the power to act become tyranni-
cal masters. During the slavery days of
the South there was no overseer as cruel as
the negro when he was made overseer over
other negroes and such is the curse of
slavery that it quenches the impulse for free-
dom in the heart of the slave; and when-
ever I see a woman to-day opposing wo-
man’s enfranchisement that is the result of
the slavery of women belonging to the
centuries of the past; all these years there
has been dawning in her soul no conscious-
ness of the birthright of freedom, and she is
willing to be a subject. Why? Because
she believes in her very abject condition
she can obtain concession whic she could
not obtain as a free woman and the marvel
to me is that so many women are asking
for freedom. And when good men say to
me just as soon as a majority of the women
are in favor of it I will vote for it, of course
know it is not so and of course I know
that they make that excuse. Now we hear

[Column 2]
of two men voting against this measure.
One will say I asked my wife and I voted
as she wanted me. When he makes up his
mind to vote against it he says my wife
wanted me to vote against it. But he does
not vote for it because his wife wants him
to vote for it. Now a man who votes
against it alwaye votes as his wife wants
him to, and when he votes in favor of it he
votes because his wife has no better judg-
ment. It is like the old.
‘you’ll be damned if you do, you’ll be damned
if you won’t and you’ll be damned if you
don’t and you’ll be damned anyway. It is
always the fault of the women somehow or
another. Just as long as we want the ballot
the men are dying to give it to us; they
don’t want to compel us to vote. They said
as soon as you bring in a petition showing
a majority of women in favor of suffrage,
we will grant your petition. So we wo-
men went out and got five thousand names
but they said that is not enough so the
next year we got ten thousand names
the next year we got twenty thousand
names they said “you are doing fine keep
right on” so the next year we went in
with fifty thousand names and they said:
“now ladies, that is very good but we
don’t know you want it yet but just as
soon as we know—and that is the way
they do it. Miss Anthony went to Mr.
Dana, the editor of the New York Sun,
and asked him to use his influence in be-
half of suffrage and he said: “My paper
is used in the interest of the people and
the people don’t want suffrage.” And Miss
Anthony said: “How do you know the
women don’t want suffrage?” She said
“How many women will have to ask for
it?” And he said he thought if 100,000
women asked for it, it would be sufficient,
but he said he didn’t think it was possi-
ble to get the names of 100,000 women in
the State of New York. Miss Anthony
said, if we only have time we will bring
in a million names. Mr. Dana simply
laughed and said: “Miss Anthony when
you bring in 100,000 names the Sun is
yours. So Miss Anthony went to work
and secured the names of 300,000 women
and enough names of men to make over
700,000, and 300,000 and more of them
were women, and when the Constitutional
Convention defeated Woman’s Suffrage
what do you suppose Mr. Dana had for an
editorial the next morning? It was headed
“When will the women of New York
vote?” and then the next paragraph read—
“Just as soon as they want to.” and Mr.
Dana went right back to that same old
chesnut, when the women want to vote
the men will readily grant them the ballot.
Mr. Dana knew he would not do it—
he knew he would give some excuse and
let it go. But we quarrel we women among
ourselves—we have nothing else to do.
if you will give us the ballot or some
interest in the question of silver and tariff
we will have something better to do. I
believe one of your good gentlemen said the
Board of Lady Managers at the World’s
Fair quarreled, but I don’t believe they
threw one of the women out of the window.
We do not deny the men ought not to vote
because the Men Managers quarreled and
they threw one of their own number through
the window. (Laughter.) Did we say the
men ought not to vote because two members
of the city Council of the City of Denver
had a pitched fight. Did we say the men
ought not to vote because the Governor of

[Column 3]
Arkansas wishing to chastise one of the
members of the Legislature expectorated in
his face. Because two members of the house
of Congress last winter thought they were
in a prize ring and flew at each other and it
took all the other members of congress to
hold on to their coat tails to keep them
apart, did we say men ought not to vote?
And did not some such occurrence occur in
the British Parliment not long ago. And
yet the men who did not engage in such
disgraceful scenes ought not to be disfran-
chised on account of them. Now why can’t
you have the same kind of charity for us.
Miss Anthony never had any fight with
anybody, and I don’t know that I have
ever had any.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ADVANCE STEP.
	FOR several years, Mrs. Lucinda M.
Stone, of Kalamazoo, Mich., has been urg-
ing the appointment of women upon the
faculty of the State University at Ann
Arbor. She has brought the matter before
women's clubs and other organizations, and
has presented it to the public through lead-
ing newspapers. Mrs. Stone is therefore to
be congratulated that she has lived to see
what she so earnestly desired, in the recent
appointment of Dr. Eliza M. Mosher, as
professor of hygiene in Ann Arbor Univer-
sity, Michigan, and dean of the literary de-
partment. Dr. Mosher will also have charge
of the women’s gymnasium, which, when
constructed, will form part of the univer-
sity. The structure is to be built by the
women of Ann Arbor, and will cost $50,-
000; $35,000 has already been subscribed to
that end. Dr. Mosher’s duties will begin
next October.
	Dr. Mosher was graduated from the
medical department of the University of
Michigan in 1875, after making a brilliant
record as a student. She began the practice
of her profession at Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
In 1877 she was appointed by the Governor
of Massachusetts as head physician of the
reformatory prison for women at Sherborn.
	A full professorship in Ann Arbor Uni-
versity has never before been offered to a
woman. Hence Dr. Mosher may be re-
garded as highly honored and the Univer-
sity as having taken an advance step.
F. M. A.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 238, East, 4th South.
Telephone 383.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS


Woman’s Exponent. 

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

