Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1895. No. 3.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Gratitude—
E. M. R. Letter To U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.
Mrs. Mary L. Dickinson—Slected. Relief Society
In The Early Days. Ladies Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—Mary E. Irvine. R. S. Reports—Bear Lake
and Wayne Stakes. Woman Supt. of Schools.
Will Allen Dromgoole On Silver. Woman Suf-
frage Column. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Political Science Study. A Trib-
ute of Love. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Woman’s Sphere—Ruby Lamont
Hannah—R. M. F. The Future Conquerer.


WOMAN'S SPHERE.

A SATIRE.

YES brother, she's a woman; see thou to it
That she keep faithfully along the track,
The beaten track of ages; be it narrow,
What doth it matter if it is beaten hard,
And clean and dustless—If she move an inch,
This way or that, then might she serve thee less;
For see, she might look upward to the stars,
And wonder at the greatness of the sky,
Perchance to shrink beneath the load of care,
That makes her field so narrow, wand'ring thus
She might grow dusty with a higher sense,
And thy wants be forgot! Instead of chords,
Of harmony, what harroweth now thine ears,
A harsh, discordant clamor! A shrill cry,
That soon the gates may open to the plan
And let the cushioned prisoner wander free,
To change her fashioned nature for the wild,
Aggressive temper of the wilderness!
Ah, poor, misguided woman! Keep her true!
True to the same old path that all the days,
Her sisters have beat hard and wet with tears,
Lest eyes as grand as thine be dimm'd with dust,
Or crushing whips I scorn might bruise her white-
ness;
True to the mark! Let not her skirts flaunt
round,
And pass the bounds of social creeds and customs;
Let not her curious mind unveil the tomes,
To read the secrets of God's universe;
For He who made them craveth not that she,
Should love or comprehend them to his glory,
Her sweet soft eyes, formed but for love or tears
Must never sparkle to triumphant truth,
Nor have they any need of widened vision,
Keep down the windows lest the sun-light's gold,
The verdant landscape or the gleaming stream,
The soft blue dome above, the flashing worlds
Allure her soul to happy, upward flight,
And she forget her duty, past the mark,
The dust would stain her spirit; she might think,
Without thine aid or guidance; e'en to Heaven
She would aspire without thy stronger hand,
Trusting, the jade! To Christ to lead her on
Safely and soft through labyrinths of time,
Nay this must never be! Thy part to rule
Would be forever slighted; love would die,
A long forgotten art; sweet childhood's smiles
Orphaned of mother love, would soon grow old;
An artist mother would forget the babe
That nestled, trusting, on her cold, hard breast
Then keep her in the good old trusted track
In which the faithful women of all time
Have walked so true before her, why should
change,


Come o’er her spirit? All have gifts alike—
All woman’s gifts; and if she dare to stray
Or long for other fields or wider skies,
Then whip her back with stinging, cruel words.
	RUBY LAMONT.
	(Republished by request.)


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLIV
	Before Clair Hilliard left the colonies for
England he had a long talk with his cousin
Jane in regard to his father, though she
was careful not to reveal anything which
would wound his pride; she was wise and
cautious, as she had always been, to avoid
making others unhappy whatever she her-
self might suffer.
	The colonies were in a perturbed state,
and there were manifest indications of the
indignity towards British rule which sub-
sequently resulted in open war and finally
in the colonies declaring themselves inde-
pendent; the history of the Revolution is
familiar to the American people, and there
is no need to recount instances here, or even
the participation of the characters in this
story in that great struggle, though they
were more or less engaged therein, especially
Rob Harrison who fought valiantly, and
gave liberally of his money as well.
	Clair Hilliard had many regrets in leav-
ing his cousin to whom he was fondly at-
tached, and cried like a child when he bade
the children good-bye. Conway and Ed-
ward both opened their eyes in earnest
when Clair told them he was going to Hil-
liard castle to live alone, and they promised
if only their “mamma” would consent they
would come in a few years when they had
grown bigger and could ride and hunt, for
boy-like they had caught at the stories they
had heard of the sporting seasons in the vi-
cinity of the castle, and which they never
wearied asking about, and repeating over to
each other, and the few playmates with
whom they associated. Besides the Eng-
lish maids, who had come over with them,
told the children of their beautiful England,
until they fancied it must indeed be really a
fairyland. Edward and Anna had been
kept very close with Lady Walton, and
knew even less than Conway, who had en-
joyed greater freedom; but he too was fond
of England in his own quaint fashion,
though he wanted to be loyal to the colonies,
knowing how devoted his mother was to
the wilder scenery of New England.
	Returning across the ocean, Clair had an
eventful voyage and when he arrived he
scarcely knew what to set about, he con-
sulted his solicitors in London, who ad-
vised him to settle down in his own county
and see what prospect there would be for
Parliament, they were ambitious men and
told Clair confidentially who could put him
in possession of the needed information.
“You remember going with young Walton
to Greyson Manor in the hunting season
once and meeting a number of high bred
aristocratics, well, you’re just in time now,
and our advice would be to go and see them.

[Column 2]
Lord Walton is at home and don’t know
how to pass the time, his mother will not
hear of his going on the continent, she is
brooding over her sorrows, broken down
in health, and would possibly consent to
have Maitland go with you; perhaps she
might even be persuaded to go herself,”
“Thank you kindly gentlemen for your ad-
vice, I'll see when I reach home how things
are and talk it over with Maitland and Lady
Walton.”
	Burke replied immediately that "the es-
tate was in good hands, the steward was
prudent and everything going on smoothly,
in fact for the matter of that, the income
was increasing, the outlays almost insig-
nificant.
	After Clair left the barristers’ offices,
Burke and Hemenway talked over the
strange turn things had taken since they
had first entered upon the management of
Sir Edward’s affairs. “Its likely enough,
said Hemenway, he’ll marry one of the
Greyson girls, they’re older, bnt he is more
likely to become attached to a girl whom he
could look up to, and it might be a sensible
match; he’d stop thinking of Italy, and
grow more settled and even ambitious per-
haps, and I should like to see the Hilliard’s
in favor again. I remember hearing a great
deal of Sir Edward’s father, its hard to be-
lieve that such good blood shouldn’t show
up somewhere.”
	“Well, replied Burke, you do recall to
mind the stories I heard when a boy of the
gaiety at Hilliard castle, and to think of
Sir Edward bringing up that beautiful girl
with only French governesses in the house,
why he wasn’t old, not as old as I am by
seven years, well we shall see how this
young fellow will conduct himself, with his
guitar and Italian songs; he’ll make a furore
among the women but ride after the
hounds, never! By Jove, when I remem-
ber how the old Baronet used to jump the
ditches it makes me almost long to leave
London, and go up there and see the fun
again, you know I was born in that district,
and one can’t quite forget the green fields
and out-door sports.”
	“Well, you see Burke I’m a Londoner,
born and bred, and I like all this crowding
and pushing, and living in a whirl of ex-
citement, but I’m interested in the chase,
that is when I read about it in the papers.
I can’t say however, that our young Baro-
net ’ll ever amount to much, only to send
women half crazy, same as his mother did
the men, but we shall see, Walton ’ll do him
no good, he’s run through half his own
money and more, and would his wife’s too
if we hadn’t been after him pretty sharp."
	“Yes, I know, but Clair must have some-
body and where is he to look for society;
Rob Harrison has probably stuffed him
pretty well with ridiculous notions and then
sends him afloat without anybody to look
after him, he’ll be easy influenced, far too
easy I imagine.”
	This and much more the two men talked
over together, and in their own minds
they saw the picture of both Clair and Mait-
land. But “man proposes and God dis-
poses,” and though some things are plain


[Column 1]
to lawyer's minds, they cannot always see
what young men and women will do whose
money they are handling, anymore than
other people.
	Lady Walton was delighted to see Clair,
he came unexpected and unannounced, and
she became quite herself again while he re-
mained, and urged him to spend as much
time as possible at Walton Hall. Maitland
and Clair had always been very good
friends, and it was not long after Clair
reached home before an invitation came
from the Greyson's inviting him for the sea-
son without any solicitation on his part.
Maitland and his mother also received one
about the same time, and the three were
soon installed at Greyson Hall. It was
was one of the most charming localities in
all the rural districts of—Shire and both
the young men gave themselves up to the
pleasures and amusements provided for the
entertainment of the many guests with
which the house was filled; Maitland and Clair
were neither of them very good sportsmen,
Maitland to be sure rode well, but he was
restless and his mother worried him with
her anxiety. The Greyson girls were charm-
ing and exerted themselves to please, they
had been much on the continent, and were
familiar with places and scenes of interest,
and it was but a few days until Clair was
over head and ears in love with the eldest
of the two, and then he began to wonder
what his cousin would think, and indeed
whether the girl would return his affection.
He knew things were in commotion in
America, and so he did not write, but
talked with Lady Walton, who encouraged
him to speak to Mr. Greyson at once. The
mother was dead and a maiden aunt, the
mother's sister was the only lady of the
Manor, except the girls who had almost de-
cided to live in single blessedness, thinking
their time had gone by, though they were
scarcely spinsters yet.
	Lady Walton was much improved and
had been watching these young people and
wishing Maitland would woo and win the
other and younger sister, or some one of the
sweet and attractive girls who came to visit,
or attended the parties they were giving
every few days; she had not long to wait
for almost immediately after Clair's affair
was settled, Maitland confided to his mother
that he had already asked Laura Greyson
to be his wife, that she had consented, that
the children were to be brought home, and
that she would take care of his morals here-
after; all of which Lady Walton accepted,
though it was not a brilliant match, such
as she had once anticipated when he was a
fine boy just fresh from college. There
had been many changes since then and seri-
ous troubles had effected her very materially.
	She had in reality taken somewhat to liter-
ary pursuits, and written some articles and
verses quite pathetic and though she had
only shown them to one or two writers
she had been quite gratified with the favor-
able criticisms of her literary friends. She
had another reason for wishing to leave
Greyson Manor, which she felt now she
could do with due propriety, on the pretext
of making things ready for the future mis-
tress of Walton Hall. Sir Thomas Lons-
dall had come late in the season, and he
knew too much for her sensitive nature, he
was very outspoken aud had once or twice
alluded to her affairs in a way that set her
heart beating, for even now she could not
bear to hear Sir Edward's marriages alluded
to, and still cherished in her heart of hearts,

[Column 2]
a tenderness for her first lover, and she
knew from his own lips on that night of
nights, of which no one living now knew
except Jane (and who had she felt sure
never betrayed the secret) that in reality Sir
Edward had loved her truly, though his
jealousy and hatred knew no bounds; but
he had forgiven her then and indeed found
that she too had been deceived, and that
both lives had been made unhappy, though
she had been a true and faithful wife, over
fond of admiration, a belle in society, while
he had lived wretchedly, at first under des-
perate excitement, afterwards something of
a recluse, shunning all those around him.
	Lady Walton advised Clair to go home as
she feared for him, knowing how he dreaded
any allusion to his mother, and with womanly
intuition she knew Sir Thomas would break
out some day, when he had imbibed too
freely of the wine at dinner which he was
much in the habit of doing. With all her
caution the crisis came. She was ready to
depart, had everything packed when Sir
Thomas in a passion, brought about because
of a joke perpetrated by Clair, called him a
gipsy, whereupon Maitland resenting it,
was told his mother had gone over to Italy
and married a vagabond Count no better
than a gipsy. Mr. Greyson tried to silence
Sir Thomas in vain, the young men left
the dining hall, and almost without cere-
mony bidding hurried adieux to the young
ladies were soon on the way to Walton Hall.
Mr. Greyson was obliged to explain to his
daughters and apologize for Sir Thomas,
whom he promised himself never to invite
again. Miss Fulton, the sister-in-law de-
clared Sir Thomas had been in love with
the Italian singer himself, and never could
forgive Sir Edward for marrying her.
	It was a dismal winding up of a brilliant
season, but the girls had much to think of
in view of the double wedding which was
soon to take place, and before many days all
the guests had taken their departure, and
the wedding trousseaux were in progress.
The arrangements were elaborate and in
the best style of the day and time, and at
Christmas the marriages were to be solom-
ized. Lady Walton had decided not to be
present but as neither the girls nor Clair
had a mother she was finally prevailed
upon to come. There had never been such
a wedding in the neighborhood, the music
and feasting and merry making continued
through the holidays, and in all the coun-
try side both rich and poor were remem-
bered. The Greysons were great favorites
and a double wedding was a novelty.
Lady Walton who was still very beautiful,
notwithstanding all she had endured, and
who always dressed with the most exquisite
taste, was as charming as the young brides,
her stately manner and thorough-bred style
created quite a sensation and she was as
much talked of afterwards as the brides
themselves.
	Meantime the war had begun in earnest
across the water and more than one battle
had been fought; the English were sure of
victory, although Clair had many doubts
and some fears, he longed to know more
than the rumors that were afloat. Maitland
dreaded and feared because of his children,
but he knew cousin Jane would protect
them with her own life if she could; he
had opportunities now and then to send
messages but never knew whether they
were delivered (and of course they were
not.) It was late the following summer
when he started for the colonies to bring

[Column 3]
home his children and he found much dif-
ficulty in reaching his friends though he
carried letters from the officers in command.
He was an English gentleman which was
apparent in his bearing, but nevertheless
he was suspected of being a spy. At last
he succeeded and found all well and ascer-
tained that neither Mr. Harrison or Sydney
Barrington had ever heard of the marriages.
Jane knew the Greyson's and was pleased
to hear the news. She felt Clair would be
better with a wife like Miss Greyson, and
the children she loved so much would have
a capable and affectionate mother. Lady
Walton had always been cold and selfish,
and so absorbed in her own griefs, she had
no room for little children in her heart.
Maitland only remained long enough to
make the needful preparations and Jane
Harrison with a heavy heart bade the chil-
dren good-bye, not knowing what might
transpire before they should meet again.
But she was brave beyond all expectation.


WOMANS EXPONENT


GRATITUDE.

	GRATITUDE is the warm and friendly
feeling that prompts the heart, the soul,
and the mind to benefit the benefactor.
	In the strife for fame, and the hustle and
bustle of this busy-world too often do we
nurse recollections of our own fancied
wrongs,and too often do we forget the kind-
nesses on us bestowed.
	Gratitude, the feeling which inspires
the heart with kindly desires to thrice re-
pay a want administered, or a favor confer-
red, is the grandest feeling that fills the
noble heart, and from it springs the golden
seeds of friendship, that subtle-tie that binds
true hearts together. The feeling of grati-
tude when you have been helped,or favored,
will lighten your heart, and brighten your
smiles; so do not falter when you know
what comfort to yourself and your friends
you will impart.
	We as God’s noble children can show
our gratitude to him for all his mercies and
kindness, by living a humble and contrite
life, and doing all the good we can. If we
desire to do good we must begin on the first
step, that is if we wish to do much good in
this world we must be willing to do good in
little things, in little acts of benovelence
one after another; speaking a timely and
good word here, doing an act of kindness
there, and setting a good example always.
We must do the first good thing we can,
and then the next. This is the only way to
accomplish much in one’s life time, and it
is one of the many ways we can show onr
gratitude to God.
In each act of gratitude, nobleness lies;
	The benefactor is repaid with willing grace, 
The act is always grand and never dies,
	But will brighten the true friends face.
	E. M. R.


MRS. ESTHER MORRIS of Wyoming was
one of ten delegates at large elected from
that State to the National Convention of
Republican League Clubs at Cleveland.
Colorado elected four women as delegates,
and New York one.
	MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
who has been so ill that her death semed
inevitable, is recovering. Her family and
friends are hopeful, and she will soon be
brought from Washington, D. C., to the
cooler air of Maine.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HANNAH.

	CLASP the hands gently,
		With tenderest care,
	Smooth back the tresses,
		Lay a flower there,
	Tread, O, so softly
		Disturb not her rest;
	Sleeping so sweetly,
		Ah! Is she not blest?
	Break not the silence,
		Hush! Do not weep,
	Angels are near her
		Bright vigils to keep;
	Angels of gladness
		To bear her away;
	Angels of comfort
		With loved ones to stay.
	Hark! I hear music,
		Faint ’tis but clear;
	Yes they are singing
		In sweet tones I hear,
	Fair lovely sister
		O, come, come away;
	Where pain and sorrow
		Are banished for aye.
	Come where love’s breezes .
		Forget not to blow;
	Where streams of kindness,
		Continually flow,
	The joys of thy home
		Thon can’st not divine
	Glory and honor
		Forever are thine.
	R.M.F


To The Woman's Exponent:
THE FUTURE CONQUERER.

(To the Children of the Latter-day Saints.)

HEAR the soft patter of little feet,
	Keeping their step in the march of time;
List to the voice of childhood sweet
	Singing the song of our cause sublime;
Steady each footfall, though light and free,
	Faltering not as they onward press,
Cheering the strains of the melody,
	Telling of peace and righteousness.
Gaze with a vision divinely lent,
	Promise of good in the future trace;
These shall arise when our day is spent,
	Women and men of a nobler race,
All we have missed is their heritage,
	All we have failed of is their’s to win;
Their’s, the new era, the golden age,
	Their’s, is the conquest of wrong and sin.
We will not envy their brighter day,
	So that to them time victory brings;
For not ignoble the part we play,
	We are kingmakers, if they are kings.
Smooth then the way for the little feet,
	Teach the right note to each fresh young voice
Throw wide the portals, their coming greet,
	And in their triumph will they rejoice,
	Edited by L. A. C. PENNIMAN.
Milwaukee, Wis., May 5,1895.


[Column 1]
	LETTER TO U.W.P.C.

	Here I am in the wonderful Snake River
Valley with the famous Teton Peaks tower-
ing in the eastern sky white with their
everlasting mantle of snow.
	As I pause in my busy rounds to think
where I am and locate times immutable dial,
I find the month is waning and the date
of our regular meeting is near at hand.
	Inclination, born of an ardent desire,

[Column 2]
bids me hasten home that I may participate
in the pleasures and the benefits of my
favorite club, but duty that relentless mas-
ter calls me elsewhere. I will not take the
time to dwell upon the subject of duty for
our little band is composed of those faithful
ones who learned this lesson long, long ago.
	Since leaving Salt Lake one month ago,
I have visited twenty-seven towns holding
three meetings in each. I have traveled two
hundred and fifty miles by train and nearly
five hundred by team, over hills and dales,
through canyons and mountain gorges,
over the sage brush plains and lava beds,
along shady glens and fragrant meadows;
sometimes the road winding for miles along
the cool, romantic banks of the river fringed
with willows and interspersed with beautiful
wild flowers, and the sweet wild roses that
to my senses are always so inspiring.
Little dainty wild rose with perfume so sweet;
Reminder of youth, and its joys so complete.
When in the green pastures, and cool canyon glens
I plucked thee at random from briary stems.
How I loved to inhale thy fragrance so rare,
And deemed of all flowers, thou the sweetest,
	most fair.
	Though the trip has been attended with
some hardships, the beautiful flowers and
the sweet songs of birds, which can be seen
in great numbers and variety, together with
the sweet companionship of my little Nellie,
has greatly lightened the burden, and
smoothed the rough places. Though in
the language of my little traveling com-
panion, “I never saw so many bumby ups,
mudly pudly’s and tee totters” as in the last
few weeks travel. We have many, ditches,
creeks and canals to ford, sometimes the
water coming into the wagon bed. It being
a new country the bridges are not yet all
constructed though the most dangerous
parts of the Snake River are spanned by im-
mense bridges characteristic of the energy
and enterprise of an industrious, persevering
people.
	This is an extensive valley covering a
vast area of ground. Its water resources
are uncomparable and there is every facility
necessary for becoming a great farming and
agricultural district, and with the brawn
and muscle of the sturdy Mormon pioneers,
who first had faith in its possibilities, there
is no question but their fondest anticipations
will be more than realized. Many of the
little towns are situated along the picturesque
banks of the Snake River, and give great
promise of becoming prosperous business
centers.
	We cannot as yet speak much in praise
of the climate as the seasons are late and
the warm weather cloes not set in until near
the first of July. The wind blows nearly
every day, but how could we expect other-
wise with the vast sweep of land in this
great valley, when the little towns and ham-
lets become large cities with towers and
spires reaching heavenward, and the plains
covered with extensive orchards, then we
may expect a change in climate as we have
found in our own loved Utah.
	I trust all will go smoothly with the club,
and that you will have a most profitable
time at your next meeting and if the last
program is promptly filled, I am convinced
it will be most interesting. I hope the
“committee of the whole” will do their
duty as well for the July meeting—a little
selfishness perhaps—for if all is well, I shall
be there. Praying our Father’s choicest
blessings upon you all, I am your fellow-
worker. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
WILFORD, FREMONT CO., Idaho, June 26, 95


MRS. MARY L. DICKINSON.
 
	MARY LOWE DICKINSON, the newly-
elected president of the National Council of
of Women of the United States, was born
and educated in New England; she became
a teacher when very young. The experi-
ment of teaching, while most successful,
in so far as the puplis were concerned, only
served to convince the teacher of the
inadequacy of her own preparation for her
chosen field. At the age of 24 she spent
three years in extensive travel and close
study abroad. Returning, the teacher’s life
was resumed until her marriage to John Be
Dickinson, a wealthy banker of New York.
City, changed the life to one of even wider
opportunities for social and philanthropic
work.
	Indentified with the best phases of social,
religious and philanthropic life, she en-
tered actively into many lines of charitable
work.
	Three more years of travel abroad afford-
ed opportunities for study of European sys-
tems of education, and for the acquisition 
of varied culture. The death of her hus-
band, followed in a few years by the loss of
fortune, threw her back again into the
ranks of working women. She resumed
teaching and writing.
	Her first novel, “Among the Thorns,”
proved her skill in the delineation of char-
acter and such powers as established, be-
yond question, the fact of her possessing
the story teller’s gift, while its dealing with
the problem of poverty and pauperism
showed strongly the bent of her mind.
The second book, printed first in England,
and afterwards reprinted in America, called
“The Amber Star,” dealt with fresh air
funds and country homes for children and
working women, before the subject had
ever been discussed or agitated in America.
Her third story, “A Fair Half Dozen,” al-
so first printed in England, dealt with the
problem of invalidism, taking up all the
points afterward covered by the Shut in
Society, before a thought of such a society
had ever crept up to the light. A little
volume of poems called “Edelweiss” was
her earliest book. Some of her stories, in
which she particularly excelled, have been
gathered together in a volume called “Drift
Wood” and “One Little Life,” her latest
story, is illustrative of her own idea of what
should be the true character of the Order 
of the King’s Daughters and Sons, in which 
society, from its birth, she has been the gen-
eral secretary, and actively engaged in the
charge of its work all over the world.
	Warmly interested in the cause of tem-
perance, she served for several years as the
joint editor of the “American Reformer.”
When the Order of the King’s Daughters
and Sons grew to such proportions as to re-
quire an organ of its own she established
its magazine, the “Silver Cross,” of which
she has been the only editor. She was of-
fered positions in several leading institutions
of learning, one of which she accepted the
post of professor of literature at the Uni-
versity of Denver, and at the close of her
service there was made emeritus professor
and given also a lectureship in English,
the chair of belles-lettres, which was liber-
ally endowed and named by the Board of
Trustees the Mary Lowe Dickinson chair.
	SELECTED.


EMPRESS EUGENIE has nearly comple-
ted her memoirs. They are not to be pub-
lished till after her death.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		 -		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter.
 			SALT LAKE CITY, July 1, 1895.


POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	THE Department of Study in Political
Science has prepared the plan of work so
much talked of heretofore and will fill orders
for the local associations or clubs who wish
to take up the study.
	AIM OF THE DEPARTMENT.
‘‘The object of this department is to pro-
vide a systematic Course of self-instruction
in the principles and facts which underlie
the great Political Questions of our day *  *
A knowledge of history has long been es-
teemed a necessary part of education but a
calm, serious study of politics, the science
which includes the events and conditions
surrounding our every day life is far more
rare.”
	This and a great deal more the Prospectus
sets forth, aud it is with the idea of educa-
ting the women of the country in Political
Science that this plan of work has been pre-
pared.
	DUES.
	Study classes that are formed will be ex-
pected to pay the same State and National
dues as regular suffrage associations, that
is the amount must be enough to retain in
the State Treasury and ten cents to the Na-
tional treasury. This sum is used to
carry on the general work.
	METHODS OF STUDY. 
	The methods should include in the
subjects. General Political News, Con-
gressional News, Legislative News, State
Judicial News, Local Affairs, Social Prob-
lems, The Tariff, Financial News, Labor
News, Foreign News.
	The following topics are suggested for
public meetings. The Duty of the Citizen,
Ideal Municipal Government, The Town
meeting, Initiative and Referendum, Pro-
portional Representation, Universal Suffrage,
Woman Suffrage, how can Patriotism be
taught in the Public Schools.
	‘‘This course of study is prepared as nearly
as possible to meet the demands of all
classes of persons, busy housewives and
women who can only command scattered
moments for reading, women too who have
leisure, college graduates and those whose
ambition is broader, it has been planned to
meet all these differing conditions as nearly
as possible."
	The design of the N.A.W.S.A. is to
make this course of study entirely non-
partisan and all text books will be selected
with reference to maintaining such impar-
tiality.


As President of the Utah W. S. A., we
recommend this course of study to the or-
ganizations in all the various localities, and
believe it will be the most educational in
political matters of any method which has
ever yet been adopted.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	An ovation was accorded to Sister Mary
A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. N. M.
I. A., of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion on
the evening of Tuesday, June 18. It is
useless to attempt a description of the floral
decorations but they were beautiful as a
summer dream, yet not so charming as the
young girls and women themselves, attired
in white, or in colors, they rose one after
another to give expression in sentiments of
love, appreciation and admiration to the one
in whose honor they had assembled. As
for Sister Freeze herself, she was literally
buried in flowers, each one of the Presidents
of the branches of the Association in this
stake, throwing her a bouquet of roses im-
mediately after she was seated; entirely un-
conscious of the nature of the gathering it
was a wonder she bore all this adulation
without breaking down. Sisters Nellie C.
Taylor and Maggie C. Shipp conducted the
the exercises in the most graceful and dig-
nified manner, and to them doubtless as-
sisted by willing helpers of the Associa-
tion the success of the entertainment is due.
	The First Presidency was represented by
President Jos. F. Smith, the Apostles by
President Lorenzo Snow, F. M. Lyman
and Abraham H. Cannon, the Presidency of
this Stake by Counselors Jos. E. Taylor
and C. W. Penrose. The Relief Society by
Zina D. H Young and Bathsheba W.
Smith and others, the general officers of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. by Elmina S. Taylor
and her Counselors Maria Y. Dougall,
Marth H. Tingey.
	The hall was crowded with friends of
Sister Freeze and members of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A. the occasion was one of great
interest and appreciation of the labors of
the Association in this Stake of Zion. The
hymns that were sung were composed by
Sister Mary A. Freeze, and Sister Carrie S.
Thomas; one of the particular features of
the occasion was the presentation of a testi-
monial from the young ladies of the County
Associations of a large picture, handsomely
framed of President Mary A Freeze and
her Counselors and Aids, which must have
been very acceptable as they are the helps
who assist in the progress of the work
spiritual, mental and moral which is being
done for the youth of Zion. Sister Mary
P. Young one of the Counselors presented
the picture in a fitting and eloquent address,
and Sister Freeze responded in the most
happy and grateful manner.
	The first speaker of the evening was Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who in the course of
his remarks waxed eloquent and incisive
on the subject of equal suffrage, and illus-
trated his views by the story of his own
mother, who when a widow with a large
family dependent upon her, journeyed from
Nauvoo, (after the martyrdom of her hus-
band) under the most difficult circumstances
and when the call came to start to the val-
ley, left Winter Quarters in 1847 following
the pioneers, attending to her own teams
and wagons, looking after the entire outfit,
and accomplishing what very few men

[Column 2]
could have done; established herself here in
the desert, built her own house, and superin-
tended all the details of farming and caring
for stock, etc., in a new country where all was
very laborious, and many difficulties and
hardships to be encountered. He made
many excellent points for suffrage and it is
hard to believe that one could listen to so
vivid a picture without being convinced of
woman’s capabilities for citizenship.
	President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and Abraham H. Cannon, Elder B.
H. Roberts, Zina D. H. Young and Elmina
S. Taylor each occupied a few minutes ex-
pressing love and admiration for Sister
Freeze and appreciation of her labors among
the young people.
	Delicious refreshments were served and
social conversation indulged in, greetings,
congratulations and hand-shakings all
around and the entertainment was closed
with singing and a benediction pronounced
by Bishop Robert Morris of the 11th Ward
where Sister Freeze resides. Altogether
the entertainment must have been very sat-
isfactory to Sister Freeze, and great credit
is due those who had the arrangement of
the entire affair in their hands.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	BRO. Joseph Horne and wife left the
city June 17th to visit their daughter, Mrs.
Spencer, in Paris, Idaho, and to attend
the wedding reception of a grand-daughter
who was recently married. They expected
to be absent two or three weeks.
	Mesdames Mary Hillom Higgs, Salt
Lake City, Annie P. Tillotson, Ogden,
Lucinda M. Patten, Payson, Utah Co.,
Marion M. Hand, Benjamin. Students
from the class of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp,
have just today passed the Territorial Med-
ical Board.
	WE want to call the attention of our
readers to the study of Political Science pre-
pared for women by a special committee,
which it is expected will help to prepare the
women of the country to vote intelligently
when the opportunity arrives, as it assuredly
will in the near future.
	SISTERS Zina D.H. Young and the writer
attended the conference of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake on the 11th of June and
had a most enjoyable time. The following
day, 12th, was the conference of the Y. L.
N. M. I A. Sister Minnie J. Snow came
up from the city to attend it, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young remained to take part in
the conference. Sister Zina D. H. Young
and sister E. S. Taylor attended the con-
ferences of the Relief Society and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Ephriam
on the 28th and 29th of June and had an
excellent time.
	SONYA KOVALERSKY is the title of a
book translated from the Russian and
Swedish, the Russian translation by Isabel
F. Hapgood, the Swedish by A. M. Clive
Bagley, published by the Century Co., New
York. The book is a very remarkable one
in many ways, quite out of the ordinary
and giving the reader a good idea of wo-
man’s real condition in Russia.
The biography and memories of Sonya
Kovalersky show her as a very superior
and highly gifted woman, brilliant in math-
ematics and abstruse sciences, prophetic and
inspirational in a very great degree, acutely


sensitive on all subjects, yet the book sets
forth plainly that quality of love in wo-
man which can never be satisfied without
the devotion of an ardent lover; fame, honor,
intellect, all these she had in their com-
pleteness, “a marvel of mental develop-
ment and beautiful womanhood, a kind of
giantess of such extraordinary proportions
that you regard her with wonder arid admi-
ration.” Certainly both in Russia and
Sweden, Sonya Kovalersky was one of the
most gifted women of this century.
	MEMORIAL DAY in remembrance of the
poet and author, Sister Hannah T. King
was kept this year June 19th, at the beauti-
ful home of Sister Julia C. Howe, who was
one of Sister King’s dearest friends. About
fourteen ladies were present. The roses
and other sweet blossoms, in themselves
were a touching tribute to her memory.
Sister Howe had prepared little mementoes
on cards from the author’s “Songs of the
Heart” most of them from the poem en-
titled “Life,” these were very appropriate
having been selected for each one with
great care, and were in the hand writing
of the hostess. The conversation was gen-
eral, and the “five o’clock tea” at which
most of the ladies drank hot water, was
very enjoyable, not only for the delicious
and appetizing delicacies, but for the spirit
of love and good-will, which made all feel
happy and buoyant for the time. After
leaving the dining room, Sister Alder read
the verses which were commented upon,and
by request the writer read a personal poem
of Sister King’s addressed to Helen Mar
Whitney, which has never appeared in
print. Sweet interchanges of thought and
feeling followed, and at the close the com-
pany sang Doxology and benediction waspro-
nounced. The next gathering in honor of
the dear departed Sister King will be at the
residence of her daughter Sister Louisa
Spencer in June 1896—if all is well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE EARLY
			DAYS.

	THE Fourteenth Ward Female Relief,
Society, organized by Bishop Hoagland
(agreeable to the request of President
Brigham Young) on the seventeenth day of
September 1856, with a President and two
counselors, a secretary and treasurer: with
power to elect other such officers as might
be needed, for the carrying out and manage-
ment of said society.
	We therefore deemed it necessary to elect
a visiting committee of nine persons, one
to each block to collect subscriptions and
enquire into the circumstances and ne-
cessities of the poor and report the same to
the President of the Society.
	We have also an Appraiser Committee of
three persons. Together with a superin-
tendence of work Committee of three per-
sons, likewise.
	Our meetings are opened and closed by
singing and prayer, and occasionally with
remarks by Bishop Hoagland, and other
brethren of the Priesthood, who may oc-
casionally call in. Also by the President of
the Society.
	Members are received or expelled by vote
according to our rules and By Laws.
			P. W. WOODRUFF, Prest.
	Phebe Woodruff, President; Mary I.
Horne and Lucinda Southworth,Counselors;
Kezia D. Pratt, Secretary; Agnes Hoag-

[Column 2]
land Treasurer; afterwards P. W. Wood-
ruff Treasurer.
	Visiting Commitee: Lavinia Taylor,
Grace Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H.
Richards, Elizabeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, N. A. Stevenson, L. Southworth,
Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraiser Committee: Phebe Woodruff,
Mary I. Horne, Lucinda Southworth.
	Superintendence of Work Committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Foss, Agnes
Hoagland.

		NAMES OF MEMBERS.
	Phebe Woodruff, Mary I. Horne, Lu-
cinda Southworth, Kezia D. Pratt, Agnes
Hoagland, Leonora Taylor, Sarah M. Pratt,
Emma Standish, Elizabeth Pixton, Sarah
B. Phelps, N. A. Stevenson, Ann Long-
stroff, Anetta A. Cummings, Lydia Sharp,
Elizabeth K. Stevenson, Rhoda H. Rich-
ards, Fanny Spilsbury, Susan Richards,
Sophia Taylor, Esther Ann Hoagland,
Jane Taylor, Mary Oakey, Matilda Wards-
worth, Sarah Brown, Ann Jackson, Rachel
Middleton, Elizabeth Pratt, Sarah B. Foss,
Susan Cornelia Woodruff, Phebe Amelia
Woodruff, Mary C. Stephen, Susan Pratt,
Belinda Pratt, Elizabeth T. Blair, Sarah
Church, Mary Ann Taylor, Agnes Taylor,
Sarah Lishman, Mary Ann Brown, Ann
Clewly, Elizabeth Johnson, Emily Shelton,
Hannah C. Mumford, Lucy L. Van Cott,
Mary Ann Taysom, Rebecca Hoagland,
Hannah Bird, Texana Blair, Sarah Jane
Blair, Sarah S. Turpin, Maria L. Twin-
ball, Lovina Taylor, Elizabeth Thompson,
Jane C. Romney, Elizabeth M. Romney,
Mary Hall, Sophronia Turnball, Harriet
Carter, Margaret Hoagland, Isabel
Lamoreaux, Annetta Rhodes, Mary Rhodes,
Susanna Richards, Sarah Ann Heyes, Ann
Agatha Pratt, Mary Campbell, Susan S.
Richards, Charlotte F. Richards, Clarissa
Snyder, Jesse S. Eddings, Hannah B. Mor-
ley, Mary Richards. Alice Watt, Mary S.
Snow, Sarah Woodruff, Emma Woodruff,
Sarah Morris, Jane Watt, Elizabeth Foss,
Olivia C. Foss, Deborah Ann Twinbull,
Jane C. Richardson, Celestia L. Pratt,
Sarah Richards, Nannie Richards, Caroline
Simms, Mary C. Taylor, Elizabeth Rich,
Jane Taylor, Helen Carter, Alice Thomp-
son, Georgian A. Clements, Martha Robins,
S.G. Richards, S. S. Richards, Martha
T. Blair, Phebe Pratt, Martha T. Darger,
Sarah Ivins, Sarah Ann Ballo, Jane E.
Richards, Jane Jennings, Helen Winder,
Helen Kay, Wilmirth East, Annie Latimer,
Mary Perrin, Ellen C. Blair, Martha Price,
L. Van Cott, Mary Ann Hooper, Cather-
ine Mulliner, Adelaide Smith, Betsy Stan-
dish, Maria Riley, M. A. Foster, M. Rhodes,
Victoria Blair, Sarah Ann Remmington,
Fanny Snalam, Rhoda Richards, Grace
Richardson, Mary Jane Merrill, Kate Gard-
ener, M. E. France, Margaret Hill, Har-
riet Phelps, Mary W. Pratt.

			BY LAWS.
	1.—The name of the society shall be
called the Fourteenth Ward Female Relief
Society.
	2.—It shall be controlled by a president
and two counselors, a secretary and treas-
urer, chosen by the members who shall
choose such officers as may be deemed
necessary.
	3.—The object shall be the relief of the
destitute—unemployed, and all whom it
may have power to relieve or do good unto,
in unison, with the councils of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

[Column 3]
	4.—Those wishing to become members
may be admitted on the recommend of any
member. by a vote of any meeting regular-
ly called.
	5.—Members will be expelled from the 
society for unchristianlike conduct, by a
majority of votes of any regularly organiz-
ed meeting.
	6.—These, by laws, may be increased,
amended, annulled, or added to at any time
considered necessary by a majority of the
members.

			FIRST REPORT.
	Fourteenth Ward Female Relief Society, 
organized on the 17th day of September,
1856. Commenced and carried on our
operations in a time of scarcity and under 
trying circumstances until, the 28th day of
March, 1858, about one year and six months,
during which time we received from mem-
bers of the society in the form of contribu-
tions of money, wearing apparel, Provisions,
etc, amounting to. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $346.05
Quilts on hand and for Sale, . . . . . . . .100.00
Overplus for work and Propt. . . . . . . 101.12 
							    547.17

By paid out to poor in the Ward, . .$213.77
By paid to our brethren of the army. .43.75
By donated to H. C. Company, . . . . . .63.65
By donated to P. E. Fund, . . . . . . . . .126.00
By donated quilts to a Temple, . . . . .100.00
							   547.17

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
 
	MINUTES of meeting held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, May 14th, President
M.I. Horne presiding. Sang “O my
Father.” Prayer Sister L. D. Alder
Sang, ‘‘We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Minutes read and approved.
President Horne explained the reason we
could not have the 14th, Ward it was
being remodeled; was not feeling well
thought it was climbing the stairs at the
County Building, to hear Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw, she was pleased with them
thought many would not go to sleep under
Miss Shaw’s preaching, they have suffered
for their cause but it is popular now, refered
to the man who voted ‘‘no” on Tuesday
evening, was like Miss Anthony thought
he needed praying for. Wondered how
many really thanked God for a prophet as
we had been singing, all who have lived in
Joseph’s day should testify as long as they
are here, we should be thankful for the
Gospel. The plan of salvation will reach
all, and the baptism for the dead,is not that
a most glorious principle? What mighty,
order and love in the Gospel, when we are
living our religion. How Joseph would re-
joice when he could come out and see those
he loved. Forty-five lawsuits were
brought against him, yet there was nothing
proved against him, he was waited upon by
angels and was upheld by the power of
God. He lived to receive all the keys and
blessing, necessary for the carrying on of
this work; he had to shed his blood for
the cause; when we see the famine and dif-
ferent things that are taking place we should
study what these things mean, look to our 
selves that we are on the straight and nar-
row way, we will need a good shaking to
put us in our places, if we turn aside or go
contrary to the teachings we have received.


[Column 1]
Make the Lord your friend, and He will
never leave or forsake you; live your re-
ligion. A sister whose name was not taken
felt good to be with us, had enjoyed the con-
vention that had just been held, testified to
Joseph being a prophet. Minutes of 18th,
Ward Primary read. A Poem, dedicated
to President G. Q Cannon, was read by a
sister, who stated she had the poem for sale
at ten cents a copy. A sister in the con-
gregation testified to her knowledge that
Joseph was a Prophet, related different in-
stances in his life. 
	Sister Alder was thankful to be here
had been deprived from meeting through
sickness, had enjoyed the late Convention,
the ladies had done a great work in their
lives; but we are doing a great work and we
have a knowledge that our work is a
strength to us, wanted to see a great work
done in the future.
	The visiting ladies asked many peculiar
questions, said that she was surprised to
hear about it, at this late day that they
should believe such things, they did not
seem to see beauties in Bishop Whitney’s
speech; it seems strange that so many that
come among us are blinded to what is tak-
ing place right around them. Women are
coming to the front as they have always
done before the downfall of a nation, we
want to do everything so fast that we can-
not take time to attend to our duties every
day. Is time being shortened or do we
imagine it? We all have to drink deep of
sorrow and in this way the Lord will make
us what He wants us, related how Moses
was taken to the courts of Egypt, and then
bad to be taken to the wilderness: are we
using our influence for good every day of
our lives? Do not be led away by the fol-
lies of the world, it comes in many forms,
and we need to watch and pray continually
that we do right. A sister rejoiced that
she ever heard the Gospel and wanted to
live her religion, had enjoyed the Suffrage
Convention. Another sister had a testi-
mony that this is the work of God, was
thankful that she lived in this day, had
heard the visiting ladies, thought they were
bright and intelligent women.
	Sister Gibson was pleased to hear the
sisters testify. In 1840 Joseph Smith went
to attend a conference and she heard him
there, was convinced that day, had asked her
father’s consent to be baptized, he consented
and she went joyfully forward, when she
saw the saints gatherings she thought the
chance would never come to her,
but the Lord opened the way. Hoped she
would continue faithful, had a good
Patarichal blessing, would like to do all the
good she could.
	Sister Webb felt the spirit of the Lord
was with us here, referred to the Convention
just passed thought the ladies were very
pleasing speakers, but they had not the
Gospel, they were doing a great and good
work, referred to the words of President
Woodruff in Brigham City, that the
reapers had gone forth and many would be
cut down, was pleased to hear Sister Gib-
son’s testimony, gave her a very powerful
blessing. We all want to work in the
Temple, we should not spend all our
strength in worldly affairs, save our
strength for spiritual labors, be charitable
to each other, how much the Lord over-
looks in us.
	Sister M. P. Silver was pleased to be
back again, she knew that the prayers of
her sisters had helped her, knew that faith

[Column 2]
has been exercised, loved to come to meet-
ing, was sorry to be in Manti and not go to
the Temple. We all want suffrage. Sister
Kimball felt the sick needed the prayers of
our sisters, felt better for coming to meet-
ing, had a knowledge that the gifts were in
the church. Sister Hazon felt she would
be condemned if she did not add her testi-
mony to the rest. Hoped she would under-
stand the necessity to live her religion.
	Sister Horne would like to see the sisters
take the Poem from this sister, it was much
better to help people in this way than to
give them charity, the Conference will be in
four weeks, was glad the ladies had enjoyed
the late Convention, thought Miss Anthony,
Miss Shaw and the ladies from Colorado,
had been well treated here; if they will only
speak of us as we are, it is all we ask, be-
lieved they felt well towards us. Never
heard anyone so amusing as the Rev. Anna
Shaw the Prophet Joseph said a woman
should walk on a man's.left side so that,
he had his right hand to defend her. Sang,
“Mid scenes of Confusion.’’ Benediction,
Sister Julia Howe.
	MARY E. IRVINE, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	THE Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
Relief Society, convened at Bloomington
Meeting House, May 29, 1895, President
Julia P. Lindsay, presiding. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop
Finley. Singing.
	The Stake Secretary then called the offi-
cer’s roll and read the minutes of the pre-
vious conference, which were received.
	Opening remarks were then made by
Sister Lindsay, in which she expressed
pleasure at being enabled to meet with us
in conference. Said she had not visited
the stake this spring, therefore was not able
to report its condition. The following
Relief Society branches were then reported:
Bloomington, St. Charles by Sarah
Cook; Garden City by President Cook;
Round Valley by Counselor Early; Lake
Town by President A. Hodges; Woodruff,
Paris, First ward by Sister Sutton; Paris,
Second ward by President Eschler; Lanark
by President Toomer; Ovid, Liberty by Sis-
ter Morgan; Montpelier by President Ho-
ganson; Bennington by President Vanorman;
George Town by President Fretwell: Ward
Berne by Counselor Keith.
	The statistical reports were then read,
after which, President Lindsay said it had
been a source of great satisfaction to her, to
hear that all the branches reported were in
good condition. She also said that as
Sister E. Collings and herself were getting
old and were not able to take their journey
through their stake as they used to, it was
thought wise for her to select another aid,
accordingly Sister Amelia Hodge was
chosen and unanimously sustained as an
aid to the presidency of the Relief Society
of the Stake.
	Counselor E. Collings then arose and said
notwithstanding her great age and feeble
body she still had a strong desire to perform
every duty devolving upon her as far as she
was able. Endeavored to show the sisters
that they were here for a purpose, and that
they must attend to every known duty or
they would be held accountable for the
same. Laid particular stress on the work
that should be done for the dead; said that

[Column 2]
few indeed realized the importance of this
work. Bore a faithful testimony to the
truth of this work. 
	Sister Fretwell said she had lived in Nau-
voo at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith; said she knew that
Brigham Young was the legal successor of
the Prophet, for the first time she heard
him speak after the martyrdom, it was
Joseph's and not Brigham’s voice; said this
was a great testimony to her of the divinity
of the work.
	Meeting adjourned by singing, “God is
Love.” Benediction, President Budge.

	At 2 p. m, meeting was called and the
choir sang "Come to me.”
	Prayer by Brother Greenhalgh.
	Singing, “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang “How great the wisdom of
the Lord.”
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke at some
length on the improvement in the different
organizations of the Church and of the
necessity of the officers of the organizations
being united in their work.
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the many
tasks that we are called upon to perform
from time to time, and the need we have of
the spirit of God to ever be our guide and
companion; spoke also of the advantage of
the young and the many things that would
be required at their hands.
	President William Budge addressed us
for a short time, encouraged the sisters to
continue in the good work, assuring them
that their reward was certain; spoke of the
purity of the women of Zion and the exam-
ple they should set the world in this respect.
Touched on equal suffrage, expressed him-
self as being a strong advocate of the same.
Urged all to live up to their duties, so that
they might have the Spirit of Our Heaven-
ly Father with us continually, invoked the
blessings of God upon us.
	President J. P. Lindsay felt that we had
been well paid for attending meeting.
Thanked the people of Bloomington for
all their kindness during conference.
	Meeting adjourned for six months by
singing an anthem. “Praise Ye the Lord.”
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
					SEC., R. S.,

WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference convened at 
the Loa Relief Society Hall, May 30th,
1895. Present were Sisters Susan Grant
from Davis Stake, and Sister Maria W.
Wilcox from Salt Lake City, Stake Counse-
lor H. M. Hansen, Patriarch E. H. Black-
burn and other brethren. Singing, Prayer
offered by Br. E. H. Blackburn. Con-
tinued by singing. President J. S. Cole-
man made opening remarks, was pleased to
have sisters from Salt Lake with us, prayed
God to bless the speakers that we might
have a time of rejoicing. President Susan
Grant of Relief Society of Davis Stake,
said she was pleased to meet with the sisters
in Wayne Stake; as she had been called to
fill that appointment. Thought it was al-
ways encouraging to have sisters from other
localities visit us and talk upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel; “we all have to fit and
qualify ourselves for those things that we
are called upon to perform; we should make
our homes comfortable and desirable, so
that our children will like to stay at home;
teach the children the right path that they


[Column 1]
should walk in; precept is good, but exam-
ple is better; we are a greatly blessed peo-
ple, we have everything to encourage us."
She had enjoyed the privilege of being
acquainted with the prophet Joseph Smith,
knew he was a prophet of God, urged the
sisters to attend their meetings, give in
their donations, assist the bishops, help the
poor, and do all the good they could.
	Loa Relief Society was reported by Presi-
dent Margaret J. Taylor, doing well. Mary
E. Adams reported Teasdale Relief Society in
good condition. Sister Lucinda Brown said
she was pleased to bear her testimony
whenever she had the opportunity, always
enjoyed the labors in the Relief Society, we
should do all the good we can, the sisters
have the same spirit to guide them here
that they do in other places. President
Louisa J. Taylor reported the Fremont Re-
lief Society. Sister Maria W. Wilcox,
president of the Relief Society, 14th Ward,
Salt Lake City, was the next speaker, said
although strangers here we are of one
family, the Relief Society is a great and
glorious work, spoke of the meetings the
sisters had in the temple once a week, there
the minutes of the first meeting of the Re-
lief Society held at Nauvoo had been read
and talked upon; "if we do our duties in
meekness and humility we can be a great
help, it is a time that is spoken of when
the hearts of the children are turned to the
fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the
children, and when we pass behind the vail
it will be a great consolation to know that
we have done a great work for the dead.
Parents should teach their children their
duties, send them to the Primary Associa-
tion and Mutual Improvement. There they
learn things they never forget, urged the
parents to look after the young and rising
generation, asked the peace and blessings of
the Lord upon us.
	Patrairch E. H. Blackburn felt grateful
for the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in conference, and to hear what had been
said; "by sitting on our seats we learn a
great deal, but by getting up and bearing
our testimonies we learn more. We are
only too glad to welcome the sisters from
the north. When there is a Relief Society
Conference we should always try to be
there because there is a great deal to be
learned."
	Counselor H. M. Hansen was pleased to
give the sisters a word of encouragement
whenever he could. Said the Relief Society
throughout this Stake has been a relief in
very deed, spoke of the great help they
were to bishops, etc.
	Elder Joseph Eckerley said he regarded
the Relief Society as one of the greatest
helps in the Church, there never was an
age when people were more accomplished
than they are today, women are raised up
to be helpmeets and counselors to men.
The Lord knew the sisters were more capa-
ble of relieving the poor than the brethren
were, and therefore women have been
organized in this Church into societies.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said she had
been edified by what she had heard, and
made other encouraging remarks. Meeting
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing, "Do what
is right," etc. Benediction by Elder H.
M. Hansen.
	Afternoon session met in the Loa Meeting
House. After opening exercises Sister M.
W. Wilcox was the first speaker, said she
always had a testimony to bear to the truth
of the Gospel; the principle of faith should

[Column 2]
be exercised; "the Church and kingdom of
God has been established upon the earth
for the living and the dead, the Gospel has
brought us everything that we are in pos-
session of, we cannot become perfect at
once, but grow in knowledge from time to
time. Our work in the Relief Society is
endless, we cannot do too much good. The
sisters should cultivate the spirit of prayer
and wisdom.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah Meeks, Lyman by Presi-
dent Helen Maxfield. Sister Margaret Pace
made remarks which were timely. Sister
Coombs represented the Aldrich Relief
Society.
	Sister Susan Grant then addressed the
conference. Said she had a testimony to
bear of the truth, she knew the Lord lived
and heard our prayers, was always glad to
meet with the saints. We are all working
for the same end, we should be prayerful
so we will not grow indifferent; always
endeavor to do a work for our kindred dead,
raise our families so they will have a desire
to go to the Temple to be married; parents
should raise their children pure and noble,
our children are all we can take with us
here after, it is our duty to obey the good
counsel we hear from time to time; it is
always a help to the sisters to have the
brethren meet with them, asked the Lord
to bless the sisters of the Wayne Stake.
	President J. S. Coleman said she had
been highly edified with the remarks made
by the sisters and appreciated their visit,
spoke of the minutes of the meeting at
Nauvoo, published in the EXPONENT. The
Relief Society is not only to relieve the
poor, but to save souls. We should be
thankful that our spirits have been reserved
till this the last dispensation.
	Stake President W. E. Robison encour-
aged the sisters to go on in their good work,
said the brethren should come to meetings
and see what great good the sisters are do-
ing, exhorted the sisters to observe the
Word of Wisdom, gave other good instruc-
tions, related a revelation given to President
Taylor, appreciated the visit of the sisters,
spoke highly of the Relief Society in Wayne
Stake.
	President Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again,"
conference adjourned for six months.
	Benediction by J. T. Lazenby.
ANNA O. COLEMAN ,Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUPT. OF SCHOOLS.

	MISS ESTELLE REEL, State Superinten-
dent of Public Instruction in Wyoming,
was interviewed for the Chicago Daily
Tribune and is reported as saying:
	The fact that I am a woman did not keep
me from bearing my share of the burdens
of the campaign, financial or otherwise. I
traveled over most of the great State of
Wyoming, which has an area of 97,000
square miles, much of the distance being
covered by stage-coach or wagon. I did
not make any attempts at oratory in my
speeches, and did not try to discuss the
political issues of the day, but confined my
remarks to explaining the duties of the
office for which I was a candidate, and tell-
ing why I thought I could perform them to
satisfaction. I was treated with the great-
est courtesy in all parts of the State, and
by the press, of whatever political faith.
Of course, some of the eastern papers tried
to manufacture a funny side to the cam-


paign, and a paragraph went the rounds to
the effect that I had agreed with my op-
ponent to marry him in the event of his
election and my defeat. As the man al-
ready had a wife, this campaign story did
not carry much weight when it reached
Wyoming. Another story was circulated
to the effect that I secured my large vote—
I had the largest vote of any candidate, by
the way—by having sent my photograph to
every man in the State. The only founda-
tion for this story was the fact that I, in
common with other candidates on the ticket,
sent out considerable campaign literature
bearing our none too flattering pictures.
Widely exaggerated tales of perfumed notes
being sent to cowboys who rode 100 miles
to vote for me, as well as to wave six-
shooters in the faces of those who voted
against me, also went the rounds. Well, to
make a long story short, the battle was
won.”
	“Is there any dissatisfaction in regard to
woman suffrage in Wyoming? was asked.
	‘‘There is not,” was the decisive re-
joinder. ‘‘On the contrary, the institution
seems to give general satisfaction to all
political parties and to both sexes.”


WILL ALLEN DROMGOOLE ON
SILVER.

	Miss Will Allen Dromgoole, the popular
Southern author, gave an address at the
"Capital College" in Atlanta, Ga., a few
days ago, and paid a high tribute to Miss
Anthony, which was warmly applauded.
She said:
	"It is a great thing to be the mother of a
great cause. Years ago there flashed upon
the world a woman; she had no other an-
nouncement than the "wild scheme" she
had mothered. Wherever she went the
hiss, the sneer, the finger of scorn were sure
to follow. Yet she pushed right on; the
implacable enemy of slavery in vanity's
dress; the mother of an unborn cause. To
me she stands majestic among women; to
me she is the grandest picture in the book
of our time; to me, like the prayer of my
childhood, the name of Susan B. Anthony
holds something grandly, solemnly, pa-
thetically, magnificently sacred. Whatever
may have been her blunders, whatever her
faults, still she fought for women. And
since she fought for women, in the name of
womanhood let no woman cast a stone at
her. She is one of those who will never
die; her name will go thundering down the
ages long after you and I are forgotten;
while her cause, the child for which she
sacrificed so much that makes a woman's
life dear to her, will live, and throb, and
thrive, and flourish, long after she has
found a refuge under moss and marble.
And her name shall outwear the marble
that shall cover her great heart; posterity
shall weave for her a crown that old Time
cannot touch. You may refuse her a hear-
ing to-day; deny her the rose and the laurel.
but to-morrow shall avenge her; and al-
ready that to-morrow is dawning; upon the
Western slope where the sun goes down,
already the rose of the new day is reflecting.
Already the world has caught her message;
already the ear of woman is attuned to its
meaning, already the multitudes rise up to
"call her blessed," already upon the
threshold of life stands the new woman, the
creature of her inspiration, knocking for
recognition, And as Moses refused to be


called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, so
this new woman refuses longer to be re-
garded merely as man's amusement, and 
step-daughter to Adam's spare rib."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN. 
	W. S. A. at SUMMIT, IRON CO. 

	President E. Crane Watson, Vice Pres. 
Mary Ellerton and other members of the
Iron Co. Association held a suffrage meet-
ing at Summit, Iron Co., April 10. 
	Singing “My country now of thee,”
	Prayer, Mrs. Lettie Dalley. 
	Pres. Watson was somewhat disappointed
that more of the older people were not
present. 
	The first lesson in Civil Government was
creditably given by Mary Ellerton, as slso
was the Parliamentary Law lesson, by Miss
Lydia Wardell. A comic recitation, “The
Inventor’s Wife,” was rendered by Miss
Minnie Adams. Aunt Pauline Lyman
could not remember when she was first 
converted to woman’s rights. Thought
women could as well go to the polls to vote
as to the Post Office, and did not think any 
homes would be neglected. 
	Pres. Watson read a few selections from 
our paper, “The Echo of Equal Suffrage,”
well suited to allay any prejudice against an
organization. Mrs. Watson advised although
did not urge an organization; but a vote was
taken which decided in favor of one. 
	Mrs. Sarah Hulette, President, and Mrs.
Annie Dalley as first, and Miss Lilly Dalley
as second Vice Presidents were unanimously
sustained, as also were the following offi-
cers: Miss Jessie White, Secretary, Miss
Millie Allen, Treasurer; Mrs. Fanny Far-
row, chairman of Executive Committee;
members of same: Miss Lenora Hulette,
Mrs. Sophia Dalley, Miss Ordine Nielson, 
Mrs. Lorcena Dalley.
	After the organization was complete, 
complete, Mrs. Watson gave the necessary 
instructions to the Executive Committee in 
regard to their Board meetings, mentioned
the books and music used and place of get-
ting it.	Encouraged all to do their part, 
to make the meetings a success. The Iron
County by-laws were read and meeting ad-
journed. 
	Members: Mrs. Thrine Dalley, Mrs. Lil-
lie Dalley, Mr. James Dalley, Miss Minnie
Dalley, Miss Millie Dalley, Miss Melissa
Allen, Miss Lydia Dalley, Miss Esther
Dalley, Miss Laura Dalley.
		
		PARAGOONAH	

	THE officers of the Iron Co. W. S. A.
and some members of the same held a very
interesting program meeting at Paragoonah
on the evening of April 16th, 1895, the
object being to create an interest in political
matters there.
	The usual lessons in Parliamentary Law
and Civil Government were not omitted
while suitable songs, recitations, duets and
instrumental music interspersed kept up a
lively interest between which E. S. D.
Watson and Paulina Lyman made enthusi-
astic speeches in woman’s favor well, calcu-
lated to elicit praise. No organization was
affected, however, but we are patiently
waiting for a change in their feelings and
an invitation to return and organize.
		MINNIE ADAMS, Cor. Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS
	At the McKean County (Pa.) Republican
Convention at Smethport, June 11. the fol-
lowing resolution was unanimously
adopted:
	That we note with satisfaction the recognition
of women in Republican councils. The
policy which has encouraged manufactures and
stimulated invention has opened to American
womanhood an auspicious era. New machinery
aud new forms of industry have multiplied the
demand for labor and the intensity of resulting
competition has summoned to its service the la-
bor of women, The consequent enlargement.of
woman’s sphere has been marked by re-enforced
interest in topics of social, industrial and econo-
mic concern, and by increased participation of
women in public affairs Pending the question
of the unqualified admission of women to the
right of suffrage, which is now undergoing dis-
cussion and trial in different quarters of the Union,
we respectfully urge the the forthcoming Re-
publican State Convention to commend the ad-
mission of women to vote upon questions per-
taining to education, and to invoke accordingly
their participation in party primaries and con-
ventions.’’
	MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW, President of
the New England Women’s Press As-
sociation, has been appointed by Gov.
Greenhalge as a member of the Massachu-
setts Commission to visit the Atlanta Ex-
position next fall. The press women are
pleased with the honor done Miss Winslow,
who is much beloved among them, pleased,
also, that the honor was so to speak,
“thrust upon” her, the appointment com-
ing entirely without previous intimation, as
a complete surprise. The commission con-
sists of five members, two of whom are
women—Miss Winslow and Mrs. Mc-
Daniell.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	We, the Young Ladies of Kamas, do most sin-
cerely and with sorrowing hearts, wish to express
our regrets and grief, at the death of our beloved
President, Sister Eliza Rhead, and to extend our
sympathy to her sorrowing children and friends.
	That she has been a faithful Friend and Coun-
selor to us all, we do most sincerely testify.
	And as the Father has seen fit to call her to that
better land where sorrow and death cannot come,
we, the Young Ladies of the Kamas Association
do resolve that we will strive to emulate her vir-
tues, that we may meet her there. That we may
again listen to her motherly, loving voice and re-
joice with her in the Father’s kingdom, where she
has gone to receive the welcome message. “Well
done thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou
into the joys of thy Lord.
	CELESTIA T. PACK, Pres’t MARTHA CORBETT,
KATE WOODARD, Counselors; MAY LAMBERT
Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A. of KAMAS, May 18, 1895.

	DIED, at Spanish Fork, June 7th, 1895, Sister
Isabella Rockhill after a few weeks illness. Sis-
ter Rockhill was first counselor in the Relief
Society and a faithful worker therin for many
years; she was full of faith and unflinching integ-
rety in the principles of the Gospel. She leaves
one son, eleven grandchildren and three great-
grandchildren, besides a host of friends to mourn
her loss.
Rest, sister rest, your journey is ended;
	With patience you’ve traveled the rough thorny
		road,
Bathe your tired, weary feet in the river of life,
	That gently flows by in your Father’s abode.
Sleep, sister sleep, in life thou wert lovely,
	And death has not marred that noble, impress,
A daughter of God of lineage most royal,
	A crown for a cross, awaits thy fair brow in the
		mansions of bliss.
	MARY BAXTER


DIED, in Farmington, Davis Co,, March 1st,
1895, of pneumonia, sister Laurinda M. Robinson,
wife of the late Jos. L. Robinson first Bishop of
Farmington. The deceased was born in Mans-
field, Folland Co., Conn. May 3rd, 1821, and was
the mother of nine children six of whom sur-
vived her. She came to the valley in 1848. Her
son Nathan was killed by the Indians while on a
mission to Arizona. She was a faithful teacher in
the Relief Society and President of the Silk As-
sociation of Davis Co. She was loved and re-
spected by all who knew her and died in the hope
of a glorious resurection. Well may it be said of
her ‘‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.”
She had the work done in the Salt Lake and Lo-
gan Temple for about twenty-five dead relatives.
	She has passed the pearly gates,

		She has gone to her reward,
	Up there where her husband waits,
		In the mansions of the Lord.

	And her works behind her shine,
		As the sunset in the west,
	Leaves a track of light behind,
		So her works light her to rest.

	Faithful through this troubled life,   
		To her God and husband true,
	As a Saint, as mother, wife,
		With a crown of glory due!
							E. S. ROBINSON.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
