VOL. 24.	SALT CAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1, 1895. No. 5.


CONTENTS:
	The Family Kingdom—S. W. Richards. In
Rural England—A Story. Notes And News.
Foreign Letter—L. Kimball-Pond. Letter From
Far Off Mexico—S. E. Russell. R. S. Reports.
Golden Wedding—Amy A. Thomas. The
Economy Of Women—R. S. D. Extracts From
A Decade Of Egyptology.
	EDITORIAL:—Visit To Alaska. Women Vot-
ers.
	POETRY: — Wedding Bells—Ruby Lamont.
Woman’s Cause—M. C. Perinock The Voice Of
The Mountains—E. B. W.


WEDDING BELLS. ! In my lap your letter lies.
Sister, Sister! Mists arise
To my vision tears are falling
On their crystals Time is calling,
Beck’ning with a trembling hand
Backward over Mem’ry’s land.
	Dear, I see a picture there,
Bright and sacred, pure and rare!
Shall I tell it? If my tearsJ
Fall upon the fading years
Do not blame me for I see
Such a fairy, Sweet, in thee!
Rosy dimples, rosy lips,
Roses to thy finger-tips;
Rosy-tinted all thy dreams!
Sunlight in thy blue eye gleams,
Sunlight nestles in thy hair,—
Sunlight roses everywhere
Ah, can e’er my heart forget
	That our babe was sister’s Det?
Has our birdling learned to soar
Field and hill and valley o’er?
Can she safely leave the nest?
Darling sister, is it best?
	Ah, I know your heart will say
That e’en brighter beams today!
Wealth he brings the lover bold ,:i
Who hath won thee pearls and gold
Deck thy fairy boat of Hope;
Benedictine skies but ope
To pour down, in sun or show'er,
Wealth of soul each passing hour	
Shall be radiant be it so—
May’st thou never taste of woe!
	He is true then trust him, Sweet
Glories sparkle at thy feet,
Laid there by his tender hand'
May he always understand,
Love and bless thee may your life
As fond husband, kind, true wife,
Glide adown the stream of time
Through a calm and sunny clime,
Peaceful, glorious in your trust
That each heart is true and just
He is noble trust him, dear,
He will love thee, bless and cheer
Through each shadow that may fall'.
Soft or dark all, overall
Let the light of love descend
Rainbow-tinted to the end!

[Column 2]
	Will he fa[-]l thee? Deem not so;
But, my darling, while we go
Treading here the dust of earth,
Shadows startle storms and dearth
Shake our souls then while you live
	Truest wisdom ’tis to give
Of the deep gifts of thine heart
Still to Heav’n the fondest part:-! 
Trust Him best who dwells above,
Eternal God of Truth and Love!
So shall ye, from youth to age,
Read an ever bright’ning page,
Love shall fonder, happier grow,
Warm as sunshine, pure as snow:
Blessings on thy lov’d and thee
We will plead eternally:
We who loved will love thee still,
Wander wheresoe’er you will.
Dear to us the past Shall be, 
Sacred when we think of thee
To the end, do not forget,
Thou shalt. still be—“sister’s pet.”
RUBY LAMONT.’


[Column 1]
THE FAMILY KINGDOM.
	It is easy for some to fall in love with
pretty faces, with speaking sparkling eyes
that flash the inspiration of the soul, and
kindle into fires unquenchable easy to love
the beauty of dress, and the fascinating
manners that captivate and fill with delight
and admiration the beholder, until filled
with desire to possess such loveliness but
who of all those thus enamored stop to seri-
ously contemplate the arduous labors, the
responsible duties that attach, and must be
assumed by those who seek to make these
pleasures all their own? Who is it that
seeks to fathom the depths of obligations
accepted by assuming family ties, patriarchal
duties, kingly powers, and priestly admin-
stration of spiritualities. Who can say
that they love these more dearly than all
the charms of this life, or even life itself,
outside of those desirable and perpetual ac-
quisitions,—those lasting endowments.
	The family is the foundation of kingdom,
of eternal dominion, to those who rear the
structure upon eternal principles, and make
truth and righteousness, the cement with
which to bind its rising walls. Walls con-
structed of this material will never crumble
nor decay. Perpetuity is sought after by
the wise and skillful builder, and it can be
found only when reared after the pattern of
that kingdom which is an everlasting king-
dom, that which shall never pass away.
it is written that all other kingdoms shall
be broken in pieces.
	It requires, and we should seek for the
most enduring element with which to build
a house that is to be “eternal in the
heavens.” In faith, hope and charity, it is
found these three we are told shall abide
when others shall have passed away, and
the greatest of these is charity, which is
the love of God. Here then we find that
love is the most enduring element of an
everlasting or future kingdom, is the main
ingredient that must be wrought into the
entire structure to preserve it from decay.
	Where shall this love begin its mighty

[Column 2]
mark? In the blending of two living souls,
who as Father and Mother, are to be the
foundation of the building to be reared.
Here love’s cementing power is felt, and
twain become as one.
	Seldom if ever will two agree to walk
the journey of life together, as one, in the
absence of love that love which demands
the sacrifice of self to another, and without
which it cannot be done.  In love the con-
tract is made, and by love’s sacrifice alone
can it be preserved.  In all the intent, pur-
pose and object of the union, that oneness
contemplated must be preserved to realize
the highest results attainable both for those
united, and the pastertiy to whom shall be-
transmitted the virtues, characteristics and
attributes of a worthy parentage.
	Yet how frail and feeble the texture of
the material or cord that binds.  How
trifling that circumstance which sometimes
and perhaps with some oft-times tests its
strength, and disunites enough for the
enemy, discord, to enter where harmony,
should reign, and possibly wreck the hopes
that faith with works had reared.  How
subtle and insidious are the efforts of love’s
enemy to snap the cord if possible if not,
to weaken its force by sowing the seeds of
discord and strife, creating division in ways
least suspected oft-times, so that the whole
structure becomes tainted with poisonous
deadening hate, with which is made perish-
able the very foundation, before the walls
of childhood’s birth appear as progress in1
the kingdom’s rearing.
	Contemplate as one may the results of a
training from childhood to old age of one
who never heard with father and mother,
one word ot discord, who never saw the
least variance or disagreement with them
but whose very act and word proclaimed
unmistakably that love’s strong band was
never weakened, but strengthened by the
trials, sufferings, and adversities, of life.
What a lesson of example it would be for
the rising generation to follow,  and of
whom it might justly be required that honor
be given to father and mother, as unto God.
	How different from this, and what a
world of sorrow is experienced by children
when parents become indifferent to. them
and indulge in an austere, harsh, or petu-
lant manner ol speaking and acting towards
them and in this way mar if not entirely
destroy that perfect intimacy and union of
feeling that should always exist between
them All such harsh treatment, fault-,
finding, scolding and beating as is some-
times indulged in, is incompatible with
that love which parents should have, and
are in duty bound to cherish for the child.
The happiness of both parent and child
would be greatly promoted by a vigorous
exercise of that primitive faculty of the
mind, which cultivates the most perfect'im
timacy and union between them, consistent
with the law of love.
	That law in the kingdom’s discipline, is
the law of obedience, and children. reared
under such paternal influence would. be
imbued with such a spirit of obedience to
parents, that disobedience the result of
alienation and disagreement which fill the


[Column 1]
soul devoid  of  love,   would  be  banished
from the family circle and kingdom. Earthly
parents know  the  willing  and  obedient
child has love for them, and they love that
child in return, even as God recognizes our
love for Him only  in  the  keeping  of  his
commandments.
    Thus under the influence of this cement-
ing power the kingdom of  the  righteous
should be reared,  extending  from  parents
to children through all the  generations  to
come.
    Thus man in  filling the  measure  of  his
creation, by observing the laws  thereof  as
appointed unto him by his Heavenly Father,
lays a foundation here for  a  kingdom  that
shall be everlasting, and as such  become a
a part  of God’s kingdom.   All  men  who
obtain eternal life and celestial glory, are to
be Kings and  Priests  unto  God,   ruling
over their own kingdom  with  all  priestly
endowments by which it may  be  sanctified
and made meet for the Master’s use.
    Death has no power to rob  any  such  of
the products of a righteous life,  or interfere,
but for a moment as it  were,  with  eternal
increase and development.    If it had, then
death might have a  sting,   and  the  grave
might claim victory.   To   the  righteous
man who builds his family  kingdom in ac-
cord with the law of God,  death  is  only a
moment’s rest to him.    He awakes in the
morning of the resurrection to that  endless
day of perfect life which he has secured by
keeping the law of God,  which law is per-
fect, redeeming the soul of man  from death
and all its consequences  as  though  it had
never been.
    Thus man is  redeemed  and  restored to
the inheritance of all that  is of his Father’s
kingdom, as though he had never separated
from it; all of glory, of kingdom, dominion,
principalities and powers that are  eternal in
the heavens.   Man is to  be  like  God, and
those to whom he  is,  and  may  become
father, be to  him an  everlasting  kingdom
glory of and increase for ever more.
			       S.  W.  RICHARDS.

	IN RURAL ENGLAND.
			XLVI.
    ALTHOUGH Clair Hilliard’s health was
delicate, he was a  very interesting acquisi-
tion to the family at  ROSEWOOD for so Sid-
ney Barrington had named the residence of
the Harrison’s and it passed current; Sidney
and Clair were like two  brothers  who had
met again after   a   long  separation.    The
children were  a never-failing  source  of
pleasure and delight, and  the  family were
united  in  anticipating  the  future    of the
children. Anna’s children  were  always
mentioned in connection with those at home
and in all the numerous plans Edward and
Anna Walton were included.    Conway was
always spoken  of  as a  prospective  Doctor,
and all  his studies   had  been  sort  of  pre-
paratory.
    Clair's  health improved  in   the  genial
atmosphere  and  he undertook of  his own
accord to teach the children music, and the
winters  he  passed  with  his  cousin  and
family were very happy  ones  for them all.
Indeed Jane who had been much depressed
when Clair first came,  grew quite  hopeful
of his ultimate recovery.    He had  told her
at  first  that  he  should   never  return  to
England, and that he wished his boy trained
to become useful in life, and not to grow up
with the  impression that  wealth and posi-

[Column 2]
tion would insure happiness.    He desired
just such  discipline as  she had  given her
own son Conway, and he had moreover im-
plied that she was to keep  him with her in
case he did not recover.
   About two years after his return to America
news was received  that his affairs  were in
bad shape—one of  his  solicitors  had died
and the  firm had  been  dissolved,  and he
was obliged to set sail immediately—a fear-
ful foreboding possessed  Jane Harrison, do
what she would she could  not rid herself of
it, and when she received   the  news of  his
arrival at Hilliard Castle,she could scarcely
credit it.    Finally   he  wrote  that  having
wound up his  business for  the present sat-
isfactorily he was going to return very soon,
but  previous  to  coming  home  he  would
visit Italy  in  reference to  some important
matters, and also because  he wished  to see
his dear country once more.   Jane felt that
she should  have this  favorite  relative and
friend with  her again  very soon, her fears
were dispelled;  the  Major too  had  always
been very fond of  him, and they rejoiced in
anticipation of his  coming  to  remain per-
manently.    Little Edward looked  forward
with  eager  expectation and counted  over
and over the  gifts he. should  have to dis-
tribute to his cousins  and  playmates when
his father would be at  home again.
    One evening, some  weeks after,  the Ma-
jor come in from the  city, bringing letters,
and all gathered round  to  hear the news of
the absent one so dearly loved.   The letter
was  from  Maitland  (young Lord Walton)
and bore the Italian post mark.   Jane knew
the hand writing well and feared the worst;
for she  knew  Clair  would  write his  own
letters while he had the strength.   Maitland
was sorely stricken and  his words  were few,
“your cousin Clair Hilliard died at Valdag-
no,   suddenly,   of heart-failure,  without a
word: until  I can  reach England, I know
nothing of his  affairs,  keep  his  son until
you are instructed,’’signed “Maitland Wal-
ton” and adding as a postscript “my wife is
here with me we shall attend to  all details,
Clair will be buried beside his father.” 
    Mrs.  Harrison  was  so  overcome  with
grief and horror at  this  news, she found it
impossible  to speak  for some  hours,  her
husband and Sidney though thoroughly
broken up  with the sad affair,  did  all  in
their power to soothe and alleviate her men-
tal distress, giving her such comfort as was
possible;  the  children  were  not  informed
that night and indeed  only  Conway  was
told for a day or two after.   Mrs. Harrison
enlightened Edward by degrees,  making
him understand  how careful  he must be to
do whatever his father had wished and as-
suring him  that  Sidney  as well  as Uncle
Robert would take care  of his future.   In
fact Mr. Barrington  was already  teaching
him and intended preparing  him for school
or a private tutor.   The  boy  did not  real-
ize his loss, and as children do,soon regain-
ed his wonted cheerfulness.   Mrs. Harrison
true to her nature, endured  this  trying or-
deal with  the  greatest  heroism, after  the
first  severe  nervous  shock.   She  roused 
herself to the occasion and  awaited further
news,  of  the circumstances. Some  days
elapsed and no letters  came  and as she felt
there might  be  some   time  before a  mail
would  arrive;  and  as  the  ship  that  had
brought  the letters  was  to  sail  soon  for
England,  she  consulted  her husband  upon
the advisability  of Sidney’s going over and
looking  personally   into   matters.   The
Major consented  to  the  arrangement and

[Column 3]
Sidney made no  objection,  but wanted the
opinion of  his uncle in reference to what he
should do on reaching England—of course
the only thing  was  to act  according to  his
own good  judgment, and the  best  counsel
he could obtain  from men  of  standing and
recognized judicial ability.
      “You will have no such forbodings when
I set sail as  when  your cousin Clair went,
my dear aunt,” said  Sidney  Barringten,
when leaving  Rosewood, “you know how
implicitly I trust  in an  over-ruling  Provi-
dence, and  the faith we  have  is  our sup-
port whatever trials  await us.” “I have
great confidence in your faith and trust sus-
taining  you at  all  times, yet  I am aware
you will have  difficulties  to  encounter of
various kinds, your  authority to  act in be-
half  of Clair’s son  in  any  way  will be
questioned, and as you know Anna’s child-
ren  had some share  in the  estate through
the mother, and  we cannot  tell what Mait-
land may do, nor what he has already done
even,” Mrs. Harrison replied. “You will
proceed with great caution  I am sure, and
do nothing except under advisement, these
English barristers are   very shrewd and far-
seeing,  not  like  our  young  lawyers   in
America;  I wish it were  possible for me to
go with you, but, as you know, affairs here
demand my personal supervision,” said his
uncle to the nephew.   Having  said  good-
bye to the children and his aunt,  his uncle
accompanied   him  to  the  sea-side  and
lingered until he saw him on  board, giving
him many injunctions at  parting.   He had
no misgivings about  Sidney, he was a man
to be trusted anywhere with  the most im-
portant matters, and  when reaching home
he remarked to his wife, “we can rest con-
tent  Jane  leaving  all  these  affairs    of
property  and  settlements  to  Sidney  who
will do  right  whatever others may do, he
will not be swerved  by  any man’s opinion
from that which he deemsjust and equitable,
but English law and  justice are  slow,  and
we shall have  to wait the Court’s decision,
unless there should be a will found, which I
think  quite probable  considering Clair’s
presentiments concerning himself.” 
     “I hope  so, certainly, for  all  our sakes,
but especially for little Edward when I re-
call my uncle’s pride  of family and of an-
cestry,  and  think what  has  come  to  the
Hilliard race, I feel a terrible  blow has fal-
len upon his descendants;  Anna  gone and
now  Clair,  by  the by,  Elvira  who used
to serve at  the  castle  (was  there  when I
came in fact) was here the  other day and I
told her  of Clair’s death; she reminded me
of  the  superstition,  which  was  current
among the servants  of  mysterious appear-
ances, and warnings,  you remember how it
affected cousin Anna.” 
     “No, Jane, I never heard  it  before,  and
don’t believe in these  noises and warnings
at all,  but I must say  there  has been some
very peculiar phases of family  life  in the
last few years, since your advent in the old
castle for instance.  Elvira whom you speak
of,  did she marry  Harry  Walton about the
time Anna died?   He was a  good soldier,
fought bravely, I am glad she did so well.” 
     “Elvira was  very  faithful, never joined
Mrs.  Burke   in   her   rebellion    against 
authority, it  was sort  of hard  for  the ser-
vants  to  recognize  my  supervision,  they
had been used only to Burke, and were not
willing  to  submit  to  my  jurisdiction:  I
wonder  if Mrs. Burke  is  still  there;  we
shall know from Sidney all details undoubt-
edly, he will feel it a duty to itemize every-
thing.”


“I shall wait with impatience his first
letter, have you any intuitions Jane, for
you seem wonderfully gifted in bringing to
pass what you see beforehand, and albeit I
am not superstitious. I believe in your dis-
cernment, call it by what name you may,
but tell me really, will Sidney arrive safe?
Will he be successful in his undertaking?”
	“You must wait Robert, you ask too
much at once, I have great faith that Sid-
ney will succeed in accomplishing good for
Edward, but in what way I cannot tell.
Perhaps I may know something of his do-
ing s when he lands in England, at present
he has scarcely sailed out of harbor.”
	‘‘That is true Jane, but you have such
clear insight into things, a sort of prophetic
inspiration, it gives you strong mentality,
personal powers, you have inherited it
doubtless, from your antecedants, I hope
you'll bestow a little of this power upon
your offspring it must be a great factor in
your life, to know what is coming before-
hand, as you did about me, when I was ex-
pecting death at the hands of savages.”
	‘‘Robert, don't be sarcastic, it is some-
thing I never desired, and besides it is very
troublesome now and again, people think
you are queer to say the least, but one can’t
get rid of these curious manifestations. I
often see the old castle in vision as ’twere,
and hear the winds sighing as they used to
do in the park. But here comes the child-
ren for a frolic let us dismiss these gloomy
fancies, and whether we get justice or not
at the Courts, we may be just as happy, we
shall never want, nor our children.”
	‘‘No, not that, but you know Jane, the
the war has swallowed up our little fortune,
and Sidney has not even a “living” like a
Church of England preacher. We could do
with some of your uncle’s means, we shall
have the children some day, all of them if
you live.”
	This conversation was the last on the
subject, for the Major never afterwards re-
ferred to it nor did Jane, but she had a
dream, and the dream was realized there-
after.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S CAUSE.

BY M. C. PENNOCK.

We carry no blood-stained flag:
	We flourish no blade of steel:
Nor over red fields of conquest drag
	Their victims at our wheel.
Our banner is fresh and pure,
	Our armor is keen and bright:
With the sword of Truth so strong and sure
	We battle for freedom and right.
We labor for woman’s needs:
	Her freedom of thought and choice:
The right of way where her judgment leads 		
	And the right her wrongs to voice:
We plead for her equal care 
	At the law’s impartial hand,
And the greater gift, an equal share, 
	In the ballots that rule the land.
Yet not as beggars we stand
	To plead for the rights untried;
But, armed with reason and truth, demand
	The justice so long denied. 
Our thought encircles the Earth
	To lift it body and soul:—
We bring to womanhood second birth
	And to manhood self-control.
And swiftly our day grows, bright
	Where its bow of promise gleams,
And glimpses of harvest turning white


Awaken our fondest dreams.
New life is thrilling the land,
	Retouching its moral force;
And sounds of hope, like a martial band,
	Triumphantly lead our course. 
For knowledge is marching on:
	The old gives place to the new;
And science and sense ring in the dawn
	Of the perfect day to view:
The shades of the Past drop by;
	The Word replaces the sword; 
Oppresion and wrong shrink up and die
	In the glory of the Lord. 
Alliance. O. Ex.


[Column 1]
THE VOICE OF THE MOUNTAINS.

I HAVE heard it in the night-time, when the vales
	were fast asleep.
And a presence hush’d and holy did a solemn
	vigil keep;
Oft I listened to the music of a voice so sweet and
	low,
Such as angels might have whisper’d to a lov’d
	one here below;
And it spake to me in volumes of the life which is
	to come,
Of the heights and depths of sorrow, ere we
	reach our Father’s home.
And again in roaring thunders, as the storm
	swept on its course,
While the fury of the tempest shrieked with its
	utmost force;
But the silent watchers near me heeded not the
	voice at all,
Though my heart was beating  wildly, so intense
	and shrill the call.
And I knew that there was meaning in the voice
	that spake to me, 
For it stirr’d the inmost depths of my life’s
	trumultous sea.
Ah! I listen to these voices while my heart with
	rapture thrills,.
And I long to fly and scale the heights of those
	everlasting hills,
But though fancy bears me upward, and my spirit
	takes its flight,
And I stand as ’twere in vision, entranced with
	pure delight,
Yet I cannot reach the hill-tops, they still stretch
	an endless chain -
And higher yet and farther off the summits I
	would gain
When the moon in silver splendor rises o’er the
	Wasatch peaks,
In pathetic tones most tender, with true eloquence
	it speaks—
This voice from out the mountain, hear ye not its
	mellowing notes,
As around the sleeping valley, its deep music
	softly floats,
Let us catch the inspiration, as it cometh from
	above,
And repeat it to the world again in songs of trust
	and love.
In the caverns of the mountains, in the bowels of
	the deep,
What mysteries past, what treasures vast, what
	generations sleep;
Is it marvelous that bursting forth the waters
	break in song,
And tell the tales of ages gone, as they reckless
	dash along?
Or in the shrieking cataracts, leaping on, forever-
	more, 
A wilder legend give us, in their madly, deafen-
	roar!

[Column 2]
Yes, life is full of mysteries, ever mingling 
	with our dreams,
And the earth hath many voices, O, how wonder-
	ful it seems,
That this music so melodious, should move the 
	world to tears!
And  forevermore the: echoes go resounding
	through the years, .’’.'I
A psalm of earth’s full choruses swelling out from
	shore to shore;
Ringing down the grooves of ages, until time
	shall be no more.
And while I listen, rapture-bound, the hills break
	forth in singing
And through the mountain passes deep, the
	joyous notes are ringing;
And ever and anon they swell, with passion’s
	deepest feeling;
All life’s emotions, hidden fires, and esctacy re-
	vealing,
And softer then, and sadder strains with sobs, and
	groans and weeping,
Until my soul is wrought with pains; while all
	around are sleeping.
E. B.W.


I go for all sharing the privileges of the 
government who assist in bearing its bur-
dens, by no means excluding women.  
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The great convention just held in Bos-
ton has been a convention of young people,
and illustrates forcibly the prominent part
taken by youth in the great movements of
the day.  And the young woman has been
fully as much in evidence as the young man.
Neither youth nor sex now debars any one
from taking his or her part in  the  world’s
activities.—Boston Globe.
	MRS MARY SEYMOUR HOWELL, lately
contributed to the  women’s edition of a
paper in Brockport, N. Y., an able article
on equal suffrage.  After sketching the
work of the pioneer in the movement, she
continued:  “With such good company, it
is well to join the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion.  Do not believe the lie that these
daughters will break up homes. They will
make homes more sacred and enduring.
Do not think men and women will cease to
love when women are free.  The old love
story will go on as long as the great world-
clock ticks time away.  Who would have
the sentiment and beauty of our lives taken
away?  Men will love the women of the
coming centuries better, because women
will be nobler, and nobler women will in-
spire stronger and more lasting love.”
	The participation of women will refine
and purify municipal politics. When pri-
mary meetings are composed jointly of men
and women, both will be on their good be-
havior, and the caucus will be lifted to the
level of the parlor.  When one-half of our
board of aldermen and common council are
women, we shall have a higher standard of
personal character and of personal morals.
	Women suffrage will compel parties to
nominate better candidates, because women
discriminate more closely than men in
their estimates of character. They have
a higher regard for personal fitness. They
are less fettered by party ties. They com-
prise three-fourths of our church members
and only one-tenth of our convicts.  When
women vote, the churches and the schools
will become more influential than the
saloons.—Ex,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
cout   regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST  I, 1895.


VISIT TO ALASKA.

	PRESIDENT Woodruff accompanied by
members of his family and his Counselors
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith
and several others left this City, on June 25th
for Portland, Oregon. President
Woodruff was not well at the time and it
was thought he might receive some benefit
by going to the sea-level. He was suffer-
ing from sleeplessness. As soon as he
reached, a lower altitude he was relieved and
after arriving at Portland, Oregon, he could
sleep well.
	From Portland the party went to Tacoma
and from there to Victoria, Vancouver Island,
by way of Puget Sound.
	The President concluded while en route
North, to take a trip to Alaska and the party
made very favorable terms with the Steam
Ship Company; during this trip the whole
party had ample opportunity to see all the
most notable places in the Alaskan and
British Columbian waters. The ladies of
the party are more than delighted with all
they saw and heard The vessel was at
one time moored directly in front of the
Muir glacier, said to be one of the grandest
sights the human eye ever witnessed; the
glacier is two miles long and rises two
hundred and fifty feet above the surface of
the water, extending below seven hundred
and fifty feet it is one hundred and fifty
miles in length and has numerous tribu-
taries. It is estimated to be greater than
the whole number of glaciers in Switzer-
land.
	The party also witnessed something of 
the formation of iceburgs and heard the 
crash of falling ice from the glaciers, which
is like the firing of cannons. Some young-
er members of the party ventured to ex-
plore the sides and surface of the glacier
and tell of the wonderful caverns and cre
vassess, and of the rushing torrents and
waterfalls. Some of the experiences they 
had gave them very good ideas of Arctic
explorers and navigators in the icy regions
of the North pole. While enroute they 
saw how the Captain and crew obtain sup-
plies of ice from an iceberg, this was a 
unique spectale and exceedingly interest-
ing.
	The Captain took the party on the Wil-
lipa up Gardner’s inlet, 125 miles out of the
usual trip of tourists; the scenery at this
point was most sublime and awe-inspiring
to all who had this grand opportunity; the
vessel was drawn up at the foot of a water-
fall 400 feet in height and of majestic size
and magnificent grandeur as it came dash-
ing down the mountain. On the return

[Column 2]
trip the Captain drew the vessel up along-
side a precipice which rose from the water 
perpendicularly 1,500 feet, and receded a 
little to double that height.
	Several whales and porpoises were seen
upon the voyage, in close proximity to the 
steamer, and some of the young men
caught several large Halibut, and two young j
sharks with fishing lines swung over the 
side of the vessel, while at Bartletts bay,
where the vessel took on a cargo of salted 
and smoked salmon. 
	The gentlemen and ladies are all pro-
fuse in their praises of the Captain of the 
vessel, who took every pains to make the 
voyage pleasant and comfortable. Also of 
the Officials and Managers of the Union
Pacific, Northern Pacific and Oregon rail-
way people who showed them every pos-
sible kindness, courtesy and attention and
did all in their power to make the trip
agreeable.
	President Woodruff slept well while away
where the atmosphere was cool, but since 
his return feels the heat somewhat oppres-
sive.
	The young ladies who had this pleasant
journey should write up some of its inter-
esting features, describing places and 
scenery, which must be of special value to 
those who have not enjoyed the privilege
of seeing for themselves, besides it will im-
press it more strongly upon their minds
for future benefit. We should be very glad 
to publish an article of this sort in the 
EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN VOTERS.
	The question of women voting in Utah
seems to have awakened considerable
thought and some expression of opinions
through the public press, all of which may
be beneficial as it will be somewhat educa-
tional, as such discussions of questions
usually is.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 26th,
editorially in speaking on the subject of
the naturalization of foreign-born women,
quotes from opinions of eminent judges of
the Supreme court of the United States and
says Justice Field delivered the opinion of
the court in which it is said:
	‘The case turns upon the construction
given to the second section of the act of
Congress of February 10, 1855, which de-
clares “that any woman, who might law-
fully be naturalized under the existing laws,
married, or who shall be married to a c[-]tizen
of the United States, shall be deemed and
taken to be a citizen. ’ ’ As we construe this
act, it confers the privileges of citizenship
upon women married to citizens of the Uni-
ted States, if they are of the class of persons
for whose naturalization the previous acts of
Congress provide. * * *The terms,
“who might lawfully be naturalized under
existing laws,” only limit the application of
the law to free white women. The previous
naturalization act, existing at the time, only
required that the person applying for the
benefits should be “a free white person,”
and not an alien enemy. * * * It
follows from these views, that the widow
and the two sisters were citizens of the Uni-
ted States upon the decease of the intestate
husband. The widow and Margaret Kahoe
became such on the naturalization of their
respective husbands, and Ellen Owen be-
came such on her marriage.”
	This was, the News says in 1870, but the
same editorial says the latest decision upon

[Column 2]
the question was in the noted Blythe case
in California in 1892.
	“On the same subject, and passing directly
upon the qualifications of voters, the su-
preme court of Illinois, in the case of Keitz
vs. Behreusmeyer, reported in the 125th
Ills., says that whenever a woman, alien
born, who might be naturalized, is in a
state of marriage to a citizen, whether his
citizenship existed at the passage of the act
of Congress of February 18, 1855, or before
or after the marriage, she becomes by that
fact a citizen also and this citizenship is
not lost by the subsequent death of her hus-
band and her afterwards marrying an alien.
	“By the rulings referred to, the matter ap-
pears to be settled beyond all controversy.
The United States Supreme Court is quite
clear upon the question in the case of Kelly
vs. Owens, above referred to, laying down
the rule that the act of Congress of Febru-
ary 10, 1855, which declares “that any wo-
man who might lawfully be naturalized
under the existing laws, married, or who
shall be married to a citizen of the United
States, shall be deemed and taken to be a
citizen,” confers the privileges of citizen-
ship upon women married to citizens of the
United States, if they are of the class of
persons for whose naturalization the previ-
ous acts of Congress provide. The court
states that the terms “married,” or “who
shall be married,” in the act, do not refer
to the time when the ceremony of marriage
is celebrated, but to a state of marriage
and that they mean that whenever a woman,
who under previous acts might be natural-
zed, is in a state of marriage to a citizens
she becomes, by that fact, a citizen also.
His citizenship, whenever it exists, confer,
citizenship upon her.”
	It is to be hoped that the women of this
Territory will study the subject of voting,
and certainly so far as legality is concerned,
and be sure beyond the shadow of a doubt,
that they are doing right. It is such a new
departure, that one need not be embarrassed
in asking for imformation and look to it
that it is positively reliable. It is the firm
belief of the writer that women will not
neglect home duties to attend to public
affairs unless in very exceptional cases,
which frequently occur (as is well known)
in other ways, and for other ends, apart
from suffrage.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 27th,
mentions leading journals East and West as
arguing that women cannot vote at the No-
vember election, and gives the opinion ex-
pressed by the New York Sun (Democratic)
thus:
	“On this hypothesis the Sun advises the
women who want to avoid interference with
the admission of the territory to keep away
from the polls in November. The Repub-
lican San Francisco Chronicle takes a similar
stand, insisting that the adoption of a con-
stitution is only one step in the process of
state-making, and until Utah is fully and
completely a State it must be and remain
under the control of Congress, and be gov-
erned by its laws, which do not recognize
female suffrage in the Territory. As to the
fact that certain officials are to be elected to
become State officers, it is argued that they
are to be chosen by the legal voters of the
Territory, and that the women must wait
until the first State election before they can
exercise the right of suffrage.
	Certainly the women who have been
granted the suffrage in the new State that
is to have the best interests of all at heart,
will abide by the legal decision which must


be given by proper authority to guide the
people in what shall determine the future
prosperity of this great and growing com-
monwealth for the next few years at least.
There should be positive certainty as to the
course to be pursued and for this decision
men will be responsible, because women
can have no actual knowledge on the subject.
It is a serious question, and the best and
highest judicial authority, should in our
humble opinion, determine and announce
the solution of this problem over which
there is at present much controversy.
	As the Primaries are to be held very soon
and as this is the first step towards Con-
ventions for nominating candidates, no time
ought to be lost in quibbling but the specific
course in relation to women voting marked
out, that there may be no mistakes made or
any hindrances in the way of “a fair field
and fair play.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
	HOBART TASMANIA, June 15, 1895.
	Editor Woman’s Exponent:—I have
long been thinking of writing a short letter
to the Exponent to express my gratefulness
for sending it to me, which is truly appreci-
ated. and is very instructive and beneficial;
but almost feared that I would be trespass-
ing upon your valuable space. Many
others here have read it. and think it an
excellent paper.
   Since I have been in this land, I have be-
held many things that do not seem pleasant
to one that has been reared in the vales of
Mormon Utah.
   It is heart-rending to witness the harsh-
ness and cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, and the negligence of their support
and instruction. Large families brought
into the world without knowing scarcely
where the food and clothing will come
from, and are thrown on to the world to
beg for a living. Some of the most cruel 
things, from time to time are brought under
my observation, one I will mention:
   I saw some little children standing around
the door of a “public house,” crying on a
very cold day, bare-headed, and bare-footed,
with scarcely enough clothing on to cover
them; two little ones not more than two
and three years old with a red handkerchief
tied up. The mother finally came to the
door staggering from drink. The two little
ones said, crying bitterly, as if nearly
starved, “Mamma he won’t give us a bit
of bread.” She viciously took the bread
from the little boy, which he had evidently
been begging for, and went off with it.
The little boy leaned back against the house
as if disheartened.
	This, with many other things I have
witnessed has almost caused me to go and
weep. To think of the dear little children
so helpless within themselves, who might
be beautiful and noble if cared for tenderly.
   I will not attempt to relate any other in-
stances, but they occur every day among
those people who constantly visit “public
houses.” How my heart aches for the
the poor little children. How grand, if
they could only be cared for as our little
children are in Zion. May our Heavenly
Father forbid that any of the mothers in
Israel, should ever, so sadly neglect their
innocent offspring that He has so graciously
given them, and entrusted to their care.
When I see the mother so brutal I feel as
if I could take the little things, if it were

[Column 2]
in my power, and bring them up to serve
God, and enjoy a few of the blessings which
they are entitled to.
   No wonder each generation becomes
more corrupt and wicked. They have neg-
lected to give the proper training to prevent
the children from being robbed of their
birthright before they are born. And then
children being born with the sins visited
upon them, who need the most guarded
training are the least thought of.
   I have heard it said here, that there are
few honestly born children in the colonies.
   O, I feel as if I could proclaim our glori-
ous Gospel truths, were it possible, with a
voice of thunder unto this hardened people,
and cause them to realize what greatness
and goodness is taught among the people of
God, called Latter Day Saints.
   If they would put into practice in their
daily walks and conversation, the instruc-
tion given by the true servants of God, how
great their happiness and numerous their
blessings.
   One can more fully comprehend this,
when they are brought to see the wicked-
ness here in the world, and contrast it with
the beautiful sermons put forth by our el-
ders from (Mormon) pulpits, and even the
beneficial writings in the Exponent by
leading women.
   Mothers here in the majority think they
must keep their daughters innocent in re-
gard to the marriage relations, and those
things which would keep them from going
astray, if they receive a mother’s timely
warning, and they are not few who treat
virtue as merely nothing. I have talked
with a number who have said, “I would go
to any one rather than my mother to gain
information on such subjects.” So in many
instances mothers have driven their daugh-
ters from them and destroyed that confidence
which should draw their children to them.
Those tender cords are broken which our
Heavenly Father destined to be there.
There is not so much innocence as ignorance,
and it is time the world should wake to a
sense of the false modesty that exists.
   I sincerely pray with all my heart for the
welfare of Zion, and that the Lord will con-
tinue to guide the mothers of Israel to bring
up the young and rising generation to be
honest, noble, industrious, intelligent and
faithful before the Lord, and the eyes of
the world, and not let supposed innocence
endanger their virtue; for when that is lost
then what a sad condition. Although the
sin may be forgiven the stain will never
wash away.
   The parents will be held accountable to a
certain extent for their children’s actions;
therefore it behooves them to be watchful
and prayerful in their behalf.
	My heart is with the suffrage movement,
and I hope that all the sisters will be able
to use the franchise for the best when it is
obtained. If all would listen to the advice
of noble women, they would strive to live
better lives, and their thoughts and actions
would rise to a higher and grander sphere.
They would be eager to encourage and
hasten on the rights of women. I think
women were not put on the earth to remain
silent in political matters, while their fami-
lies are brought in contact with the rascality
of the world around them; they should
have a voice, then, the condition of affairs
would be materially changed. There is a
good society formed here called the
Woman’s Temperance Council, by the wo-
men of South Australia, (who have received
full franchise). But when I attended their

[Column 3]
meeting, I found that with all their good
intent, there was something lacking, and
of course readily perceived they were de-
ficient of that benign Heavenly influence
which creates such sisterly love that is ex-
perienced among the Latter Day Saints.
They cannot accomplish the desired end by
relying on their own strength. The gospel
plan is the only system through which
these things can be successfully carried out.
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		LOUISE KIMBALL-POND.


LETTER FROM FAR OFF MEXICO

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
		Dear Friend:—
	I CAN still testify to the truth of the old
saying, that to thoroughly appreciate a
blessing we need to be deprived of it for a
season. A day or two ago we received a
bundle of letters and papers, the accumu-
lation of three weeks at the Juarez Post
Office.
	This is the one unpleasant feature of our
new dwelling place, we have no mail line
established yet and have to wait for our
mail matter until some of the brethren go
to Juarez, near ninety miles from here, but we
expect to have a Post Office nearer, if not
here soon. Should any of my old friends
in Utah care to know how I like this place
can truly say, that I feel more settled and
contented than I have for many years. I
love the creations of our God in their wild
grand beauty, and this is as lovely a place
for an inland town as I ever have seen.
The valley is almost a perfect circle set in a
frame of evergreen trees, the land is not a
flat plane but just rolling enough for
security and beauty, last season after the
rains it was like a beautiful flower garden
all over the valley, on the south west side
is a strip of pine and fir trees, running
down into the valley, and a block has been
reserved for a park; on the south east are
beautiful cliffs and high mounds, some re-
sembling ruined castles, on the north west
is a lovely site for a temple, and I hope ere
many years to see one there, it over looks
two valleys, this one and that one is called
North Valley, a fine location for a small
village.
	This certainly is one of the choice places
the Lord has held in reserve for some wise
purpose, and I think those permitted to set-
tle here highly favored of the Lord. It is
a large beautiful, bountiful country, and I
cannot see how any of the little, petty con-
tracted, notions and selfishness of man can
flourish here, it seems to me that the works
of natnre, and the spirit of the Almighty
that I feel here, must put such things to
shame, and may God grant that the powers
of Satan may get no strong hold here. I
sincerely believe that every word of Brother
Thatcher in regard to this place will be
realized in the near future.
	With my bundle of papers was one
number of the EXPONENT, April 15th,
which has been of more than usual interest
to me, I see the names of dear old friends
who have been standby’s of our little paper
since its earliest existence. In the up’s
and down’s of my wanderings, I have
neglected to add my mite to its columns, but
have never lost interest in its welfare, have
felt that it was ably supported by those bet-
ter posted on the subjects of greatest inter-
est to its readers.
	I have read over some of the articles in
the number referred to several times, I


heartily endorse the sentiments of ‘Lula,
in her “Spirit of Reform” reduced to prac-
tice, and pray God speed the day; can
sympathize with “Sister Augusta,” in
“Hunting A Hat,” and memory turns back
to the day when her’s was no “Weary face
and faded hair.” 
	Ah, well let us take comfort in the
thoughts that the weary face will grow
young and bright again, when we have
fought the battle of life and passed beyond
the river.
	“Back to the Long Ago,” of L. M.
Hewlings, touches a chord in my heart, as
it must in every heart that reads it and has
had a like experience; it is a sad, sad pleas-
ure to go back after many years to the
home and scenes of childhood, to enter in
at the same old door, to stand on the same
hearth-stone, and find not the loved ones of
those early days, find not the dear hand
that lighted the fires on the old hearth-
stone, hear not the loving voices bidding us
welcome, to find the same garden flowers,
but planted and tended by others not of the
old time band.
	O, life what a fitful changing dream of
joy and sorrow, of which the fleeting years
leave us but a memory. To my friends in
Utah I would send love and greeting, some
of them promised a visit to this land when
we get a Temple here, and I pray that time
may come ere those helped make the days
spent in our Salt Lake Temple, so
pleasant to me have passed on to the “Better
Land” to reap the reward of their labors
here.
Sincerely Your Friend,
	S. E. RUSSELL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE STAKE.
[Ephraim.]
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conferencs
held at Ephraim June 28, 1895.
	President M. A. P. Hyde presiding.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Elder R. N. Allred. Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Presi-
dent M. A. P. Hyde made a few opening
remarks, said she hoped the blessings of the
Lord might be with us.
	Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. Verbal reports were given by
the presidents of the various branches of
the county.
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
felt happy to see so many present. The
Prophet Joseph organized this Society
after the pattern of the holy priesthood.
In speaking of attendance she said, “Come
sisters come, and partake of the waters of
life; it is a great thing to have our souls
educated-” Thought it important to have
a correct record kept for future generations.
If any go astray, put your arms around
them and bring them back, a word of en-
couragement does much good, and those
who are all right should thank God for it.
Said how good it is to witness the
same good spirit among the sisters.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said she was
pleased to be with us again and like aunt
Zina enjoyed the Spirit that was present.
Said half of the work cannot be written
here, but when the books are opened then
we will be rewarded for what we have
done our sacrifices will come back in the
form of blessings.
	President Hyde felt thankful for the re-

[Column 2]
marks of the sisters and hoped we might
profit by them. Could say in truth of the
Sisters of Sanpete that they are humble
and were therefore destined to progress.
Where the sons of God are, there the
devil is also, therefore we should be on our
guard.
	Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc.
Benediction by Bishop L. S. Anderson.
	Sister Sarah Peterson then invited all the
visitors from the neighboring settlements
and all officers of the Ephraim Relief
Society to adjourn to the Relief Society
Hall where all partook of a bounteous re-
past prepared by the home sisters.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing, “Guide us O, thou great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder Henry
Beal. Singing, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said in thinking of Sister Young and
the great importance of the office she held,
how our hearts should go out in payer for
her, said she had just visited the Relief
Society of the Stake, and Young Ladies
Association and could see that they are
growing. Hoped we would always be
dictated in wisdom.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson felt pleased to
hear the reports of the presidents, felt as
though she could report the presidents, for
she had associated with them so much.
Advised the sisters to take care of the wheat
which President Young had called upon
them to gather and save.
	President Young said that in the first
sermon delivered by President Brigham
Young in Utah he said: “There is much
silk here,” the sisters should be interested
in this. We should study economy, teach
it to our children. Felt that the Heavens
were pleased with both organizations,
prayed that we would all hold the
principles of this work more sacred than
life itself.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said: The
Relief Society is of great importance, it is
in each branch not only to help the poor,
but also to help ourselves; fully believed that
many had kept the faith by attending their
meetings. Their hearts have been cheered
comforted and made better.
	President Canute Peterson said the sisters
report in regard to the poor being well
cared for, is interesting to us, and to our
leading brethren. No one can be truly
good to the poor unless they love Christ.
Said in regard to the franchise he would
vote for the women of Utah
	Conference adjourned for three months
with singing. Prayer by N. C. Christen-
son.
	H. E. ARMSTRONG, Cor. Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	OUR Quarterly Conference convened in
the Tabernacle at Brigham City, on June
11th, 1895. Counselor Mayr Wright pre-
siding. Singing, “Oh, say what is Truth.”
Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Singing,
“Up, up, ye defenders of Zion.”
Minutes read by Annie Wixom, accepted.
	Counselor M. Wright said: “I feel so sor-
ry our president is unable to be with us,
may the blessings of the Lord be on us all.”
	Sister Michelsen, president of the Scandi-
navian Association; We are but few who
meet together, but the Lord has blest us,
we have emigrated fifty-eight souls.
	Sister Albertson, president Bear River
City: “Our meetings are well attended, we
try to do our duty.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Hubbard, President at Willard,
“Let us try to be faithful and train our
children in virtue and truth.”
	Sister Jensen, President at Geneva: “We
have a good attendance and a good spirit in
our meetings.”
	Sister Thorne, President Three Mile
Creek, “We find it a great benefit to read
the Lectures on Faith.”
	Sister Dewey, President Deweyville,
“The record we make on this earth, is what
we will be judged by.”
	Sister Hunsaker, President Honeyville,
“Those who are faithful, will gain the re-
ward.”
	Sister Rollins, from Snowville, “I hope
that I may ever have a testimony, may we
all prove faithful.”
	Sister Bowen, from Beaver Dam, “We
have good attendance and all are ready to
do their duty.”
	President Zina D. H. Young, “I feel
very happy, we are something like the in-
fants, their weakness is their strength, we
need to lean upon the Lord.”
	“I never saw a time before like this, how
we need to come together, gaining love and
confidence, this union is to be the greatest
boon, to build up one another, this is our
strength.
	When I look at my old sisters, I wonder,
where our recruits are coming from? We
advance and at last step out. We are here
to be tried, to learn to endure, and to do our
work well; our religion goes into every
household, that is the beauty of it, do our
little duties well, the world have not the
key to approach the Lord as we have, we
should greatly appreciate this privilege.”
Referred to President Woodruff saying,
“That the destroying angel has gone
abroad. I am not a clannist, I love one
nation, as well as another. It is a divine
mission of woman, to raise her children;
build you a Relief Society house as soon as
you can, the Prophet Joseph gave a lot for
that purpose, at the first organization. We
want to grow and increase in all the good
things that God gives. May the Lord
strengthen us to do His will and keep His
commandments, is my prayer, amen.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “I am very
pleased to be here, I feel, that not any of
us really realize what the Relief Society
has been to us, we would not have had the
chance to advance, without it, as we do
now, every sister who rises up to speak,
helps some one else, we want to be brave,
we want to remember we stand in the
presence of the Lord; we must forgive
each other, and look into our own hearts.”
Related a great deal from Washington, re-
ferred to the Scandinavian sisters in Copen-
hagen, about their meetings. Spoke of the
Maori sisters. The Sandwich Islands re-
port is always interesting, really an exam-
ple to us. I think we should be a little
careful about our gifts, I believe we sisters
should be a light to the world. Spoke of
the work of sister Noal. She said “When
I went to Washington and Atlanta, last
winter, one of the things I tried to do was
to look after a Silk Experiment Station, I
saw some of the influential men, and they
spoke favorably, we had already petitioned
for one or more Experiment Stations in
Utah, I believe we shall build up that in-
dustry and make it remunerative to the
people. Singing, “An Angel from on
high.” Benediction by Counselor Zella
Rees.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Bishop


Jansen. Singing “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” Minutes read and accepted.
The following presidents reported their
wards, doing well, Sister Susannah P.
Booth, Sister Mary Watkins, Sister Mary
Jansen.
	Counselor Zella Reese, “I am thankful I
am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, 
of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “We talk
about aunt Eliza and her teachings, we
talk about the Prophet, it is also good to
talk about the good men and women of our
day.
	Father Joseph Smith Sen. used to say,
“Faith is energy, and energy is faith,” you
notice any one of great faith, can do al-
most anything. Among the women of the
world we find many with great faith and
also with faith in us. Spoke of noted
ladies of the World’s Fair, who expressed
their trust and confidence in Sister Zina
Young, in herself and others, related some
incidents. “I speak of this only to illustrate
the influence we have had with these noble
and illustrious women.”
	Explained the National Council; told in-
teresting incidents from Atlanta. “May the
Lord help us to be diligent and do our duty,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen.”
	President Zina D. H. Young: “We should
be very mindful of our children, teach
them to be helpful, things are moving fast,
the prophecies are being full-filled, spoke of
the Kindergarten; children have rights,
we are too much taken up with the things
of the world, aunt Eliza used to say, ‘If
you want anything done, don’t go to those
who have plenty of time, but those who
have energy.” The Lord delights to bless
us, if we keep humble and faithful. We
should bring up children to respect and
honor the Deity, when they do this, we
shall prosper in the Land. I hope those
who have the suffrage will manage it wise-
ly, mothers should understand politics that
they can teach their children. It is the Lord
that makes the world look towards Zion.
There is no dark valley of death for the
Saints, we know for a surety that God is.
We need this spiritual association and the
association of each other.
	President Rudgar Clawson: “I have
listened with attention to the description of
the National Organizations, it gives us in-
fluence.” Spoke of the appreciation the
Priesthood felt, for the work of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles Kelly, “I was remind-
ed by Aunt Zina’s remarks, of a testimony,
borne by an old lady, spoken in tongues,
that ‘Zion is the salt of the earth, and a
beacon-light to the world,” let your light
shine for all the world is looking toward
Zion.”
	Counselor Mary Wright, made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Bene-
diction by Bishop Dewey.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN WEDDING.

	ALEXANDER AND MARGARET STEEL.

	The Golden Wedding of Brother Alex-
ander Steel, and his wife Margaret Farqu-
har Steel, was celebrated on the 31st, of
January 1895.
	As Sister Steel is President of the Re-
lief Society in the First Ward of this City
and has no relatives in this country, the
sisters of the Relief Society thought it

[column 2]
would be a pleasure to get up a surprise
party, as a tribute of their love and esteem
and on the fiftieth anniversary of her wed-
ding day. The originater of the party be-
ing Sister Mary Thorup, one of the teachers
in the Relief Society. The party was held
at the residence of Brother C. J. Thomas
as they could accommodate a larger com-
pany, than could the home of Brother and
Sister Steel. There were present Bishop
Joseph Warburton and wife, Connselor
Joseph Booth and wife and John T.
Thorup and wife. Bishop Packard, of
Springville, Elder A. M. Musser and ladies,
Brothers H. A. Thorup, C. J. Thomas,
John Squires, Wm. Campbell, George
Hilton, Ezra C. Adams, and their wives
and several other ladies, including Sister
Steel’s counselors, and teachers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society, who labor under
her jurisdiction. After partaking of supper,
we had singing and instrumental music,
and speeches were made by the Bishop and
his counselors, and a number of other breth-
ren and sisters, all expressing great confi-
dence and love for Brother and Sister Steel,
and speaking in glowing terms of their ex-
cellent character, and of the good they had
done and were continually doing in the
community; and many good wishes were
expressed for their future success, prosperity
and happiness, Brother and Sister Steel each
responded neatly and gratefully to the kind
wishes, and expressions, and demonstra-
tions of love that had been made for them
and in a very interesting manner related
some of their early experiences, and the
company dispersed, feeling that we had
spent a very pleasant and profitable time to-
gether.
	I am sorry not to have furnished the
items of this pleasant affair sooner, while
they were more fresh in my mind. 
				AMY A. THOMAS.

Brother and Sister Steel are real Scotch
born near Glasgow and were married in
Galston Ayrshire Scotland on the 31st, of
January,1895,by the Rev. Robert McIndoe.
four and a half years before they became
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Sister Steel’s brother
who is a wealthy grain merchant and mem-
ber of the City Council of Glasgow visited
his sister and spent a few days here in 1876,
he is a man of extensive cultivation has
traveled much in foreign countries.
	A glasgow paper of recent date has this
to say concerning Sister Steel’s brother.

		EX-BAILIE FARQUHAR.
	Another Ayrshire boy,ex- Bailie John Farquhar,
who one morning, in the year 1843, might have
been seen trudging into the city from Kilmar-
nock, footsore, but with a Whittington like de-
termination to make his mark, is also a Free
Educationist candidate	Beginning by serving
his apprenticeship “behind the counter,” he ul-
timately became one of our most successful mer-
chants. Perhaps his first public appearance was
in connection with the getting of shop hours
shortened from 9 p. m. till 8 p. m. to enable him-
self and other lads to attend the Andersonian
College. In matters of temperance particularly
with regard to providing counter-attractions to
the public-houses, he has always been interested,
having as far gone as thirty five years ago taken
an active part in establishing schools for ap
prentices in the North-Western district of the
city, and been mainly instrumental in the forma-
tion of a reading-room in the Milton Hall, a site
now occupied by the Grand Theatre. In their
wisdom the Ninth Ward saw fit in the year 1874
to return Mr. Farquhar as one of their represen-
tatives on the Town Council, a position which he
held for nine years, during six of which he oc-
cupied the dignified post of Magistrate. Since
his retirement from the Council, he represents

[column 3]
that body on the Juvenile Delinquency Board, is a
member of the Merchants’ House and the Buch-
anan Institution, and a Justice of the Peace. He
is now practically retired from business, and
seeks to employ his leisure in educational mat-
ters.
	In a letter to his sister he says, “I have
been appointed one of Her Majesty’s Justice’s
of the Peace for the County, which means
magistrate for life.”
As Sister Steel has no family and no relatives
here, it was quite proper their friends who
know them intimately and have such high
respect for them should accord them this
honor which is their just due.
	That they may live to do the work they
desire and rejoice in the blessings of the
gospel of peace and salvation, and continue
in health and prosperity, is the sincere wish
of the writer who is a personal friend and
ardent admirer of the integrity and up-
rightness of these dear old Scotch friends.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two, that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing, and brow never cold,
	Love oh thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”
							E. B. W.


THE ECONOMY OF WOMEN.

	In these advanced days of Women’s
Rights, Women’s Economics as seen from
the standpoint of domestic life, may seem
very old-fashioned, and of little importance.
But to a housekeeper in the true sense of
the word, they are like many little things,
stepping stones to greater.
	It is an old saying that “straws show
which way the wind blows,’’ so also very,
little things are true indexes to character.
	It is the “little foxes that spoil the vines,’’
so it is the little things neglected and un-
done that makes a home unpleasant and un-
attractive. If the children’s playthings are
littered around a room, it does not present
a very inviting appearance. They should
be taught to put their toys away, for it
saves the mother many weary steps, and is
the beginning of a very necessary part of
every child’s education, the cultivation of
order. Order is called Heaven’s first law,
and at home is the place to begin its culti-
vation, it is just as necessary to have a
place for everything and everything in its
place, and that each member should do their
part to establish and maintain this happy
condition, as it is in God’s Holy Temples,
to observe law and order.
	What the most talked of “Coming
Woman” will be is yet in the future. That
she will be other than a better, nobler,
more perfect type of womanly woman, no
thinking person can desire, but whatever
she will be it will only be attained by in-
dividual effort. To be a faithful wife and
true mother is conceeded by most to be the
Ultima Thule of womanhood.
	A woman’s life is necessarily many sided,
for she must combine a dozen different
trades or occupations in one, if she has ample
means, she may not be called on to perform
all these duties herself, but she must have
a practical knowledge of them, to know
when they are properly performed or direct
others, and that often means harder work
than to do it one’s self. She must see there
is no waste in any department, that there
is not more food prepared than necessary,
and what is left thrown away.
	She must know how to prepare good


[Column 1]
wholesome food, and how to make use of
even the scraps left over. If these so called
hard times would teach many people true
economy, they would be a blessing indeed.
Children if allowed to go to the pantry
whenever they wish, would not only waste
food, but acquire habits of irregular eating.
They should not be allowed to mar or break
the furniture, smear the windows or mirrors
with dirty fingers, tear books or magazines.
A soiled book is a disgrace to a housekeeper.
Clothing should be mended when torn, “a
stitch in time saves nine.” Button-holes
made and buttons sewed on before a gar-
ment is worn; on the other hand, all but-
tons should be cut off when clothes are
worn out, before they are put in the rag-bag.
Shoes should be buttoned, they wear better
and keep a better shape.
	Domestic economy will include economy
of time, the old saying, “time is money,”
will apply to the housewife as well as the
business man. It is not economy for a wo-
man to sit up late nights to sew, or do
other household work. Many a mother
has burned the midnight oil and tired out
body and mind to prepare fine clothes for
her children, that not only stimulate and
encourage pride and vanity in their hearts,
but overwork and lack of necessary rest
cause her to become a fretful, peevish, sickly
woman, unfitted to enjoy or perform life’s
highest duties. A woman’s time is too val-
uable to waste in baking bread to throw to
the pigs or chickens, she has too much to
do to prepare herself, and cultivate the tal-
ents God has given her, to waste her time
gossiping and talking over the failings of
her neighbors, or finding fault with the au-
thorities of the church. She should be con-
tinually striving to reach a little higher
daily, to keep the lesser laws of God, that
she may be able to obey the higher laws also,
and teach the children entrusted to her care,
to be worthy men and women, on whose
shoulders the burden of life will soon fall.
	It is the mother’s influence that molds
the children more than any other, and it is
through and by this measure the race will
be elevated or degraded. The mother must
teach the articles of faith, the ten com-
mandments, to pray, to ask the blessing at
the table, so that when called upon to know
these things, they are ready to respond.
To come to family prayers with clean hands
and faces, and smooth hair, to hold their
knife and fork properly at table, to be neat
and quiet at table.
	An apostle not long ago in his prayer
circle, advised the members to button their
own collars, tie their own neckties and
brush their own clothes. Whether there
was any more on this line I do not know,
but it might well have been added do
not leave papers you take off of packages or
are using a part of, lie around for some one
else to pick up, or leave coats and hats
hanging on chairs or laying on tables, or
shoes setting in various places to be moved
whenever necessary to sweep. The ex-
ample of the head of the family has great
weight with the children; Papa does so,
why can’t I? Living before children is a
constant repressing of indulging in careless
habits by the elders, if they care anything
for their example or the well being of their
children.
	It takes a woman of firm principle and
strong will to perform the little duties faith-
fully, and bear the little annoyances of a
housekeeper's daily life, when perhaps her
inclinations and tastes run in a different

[Column 2]
channel, when she receives few if any words
of encouragement, but does what seems, to
be her duty because it is right.
	There is a good deal said nowadays about
the higher education of women. In what
that shall consist, there is room for diversity
of opinion. As the prospective mother of
the higher, nobler, more perfected man-
hood we are looking forward to. Our girls
must have a better knowledge of themselves,
know how to take care of their own bodies
how to dress, eat, exercise, work and study
for the highest development of themselves,
and then they will be in a condition to fur-
nish bodies worthy of the noble spirits that
are to roll on the work in this Last Dispen-
sation, to make ready for the coming of our
Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
	R. S. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS FROM A DECADE OF
		EGYPTOLOGY.

	The colossus of the Ramesseum at
Thebes, a sitting statue of 800 tons, was 60
feet in height. Mr. Petrie shows the Zoan
monolith, of over 900 tons, to have been
between 90 and 100 feet in height. You
may judge, too, of the stupendous charac-
ter of the buildings at Zoan, when this ex-
plorer states that over 20,000,000 of large
bricks were found in the wall at the end of
the temple axis. Of course they were not
counted one by one. Where was Goshen?
Naville had read on two fragments in the
Cairo Museum inscriptions relating to the
nome (district) in Egypt called Arabia,
which was known from the Septuagint and
Greek historians to represent the land of
Goshen. When he espied a block of black
granite peeping from the mud at Saft-el-
Henneh, four miles east of the railway sta-
tion Zag-a-Zig, his trained eye instantly
recognized it as a third fragment of the
monument from which the two fragments
had been taken. The results of six weeks
of work proved that he had found the site
of the city of Goshen, about which lay that
fat land.
	Josephus is enthroned as a credible his-
torian by the disclosures of Naville at the
site of Onias, one of the Jewish cities re-
ferred to by Isaiah (19:19).
	How the spade itself must have caught
an electric thrill when it turned up at
Tahpanhes the gold handle to Pharaoh
Hophras’ tray! He entertained Jeremiah
and the royal daughters of Zedekiah but
Nebuchadrazzar entered Egypt and razed
the palace-fort. Read the story in that
prophet, 37-47. Petrie well exulted in the
fund report: “The interest of finding the
only Egyptian building specifically named
in the Old Testament is unique, and this
is increased by the fact that its arrange-
ments explain a special description given by
Jeremiah.”
	Those Tel-el-Amarna tablets are an ex-
haustless mine yet how many like tablets
patiently await the discoverer’s eye? As
stated at the Congress of Orientalists in
September at Geneva, a tablet disinterred at
Lachish, the Amorite city captured by
Joshua, has on it the name of Zimrida, the
govenor of Lachish, the very man men-
tioned in the Tel-el-Amarna tablets. So
not only Tel-el-Amarna proves the existence
of Lachish, but shows the interchange of
these tablets, used as they were, or diploma-
tic correspondence between Egypt, Canaan
and Babylonia.
	A papyrus of the third century that

[Column 2]
greets the explorer of 1892, containing por-
tions of Zechariah and Malachi, is considered
to be the oldest copy extant, and to have
been copied from the original Septuagint.
	Another papyrus-roll? It is the long-lost,
spurious Gospel of St. Peter, valuable now
as corroborative evidence of the narratives
of the evangelists. A complete picture of
the varied society in the Fayoum of the
golden days of the Ptolemies is afforded by
the rescued papyri from Gurob; the voca-
bulary of the Septuagint contains many of
the words peculiar to them.
	Do my fair readers wish for entertaining
monograms of life in Athens 250 years B.
C.? Egypt gives up the poems of Herodes,
a local poet, who introduces a dialogue be-
tween two dames anent servant-girl afflict-
ions. fashions, and the best bargains.
	The affluent mound of Naukratis, the
site of the brilliant Greek emporium in
Egypt prior to Alexandria, 1000 by 500
yards, at the spade’s bidding has given us
material for “a very important advance in
our knowledge of the early Greek world ”
as Professor Middleton remarked.
	A headless Apollo, most diminutive, from
Naukratis, now in Boston, is fully recognized as a
prototype of the famous Apollo of Thera in the
museum at Athens.
	The remains of the Temple of Apollo
vividly recalls details of the Erectheum in
Athens; hundreds of broken vases and bowls
show, as nowhere else, the development of
the early Ionic alphabet; a vast collection of
Greek tools of 600 B. C. exceeds all other
finds in number and variety; the site of the
first scarab factory yet discoverd reveals
the entire process of fabrication of that cu-
rious emblem of immortality to the ancient
Egyptain. “The Egyptian Princess” of
Ebers became history as well as romance
when the dull mound exposed its treasures.
		*	*	*	*	*
	That wonderful woman, Queen Hatasu,
built the most unique temple in all Egypt,
and to-day Dr. Naville’s pickaxes and
spades are finishing its excavation. The
woman who could order cut, made, en-
graved, gold-tipped, and set up at Karnak
the two largest and finest of all the obelisks,
aud have her order executed within seven
months’ time, was the Pharaoh before all
others to erect this terraced temple. On
the walls of the south division of the mid-
dle colonnade her depicted naval expedi-
tion to Punt was found by Mariette; while
Naville has recently disclosed on the walls
of the northern division a history of Hatasu
—her birth, education enthronment.—
The New Cycle.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.

R.K. THOMAS
	26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail 
Cash House


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

