VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  MAY 1, 1896 No. 23


CONTENTS:

	Sericulture. An Important Industry—Margaret
A. Caine. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp. In Edu
cating The Head Don’t Forget To Clothe The
Heart—Dr. Elvira Stevens Barney. Women In
Office—Ex. A Tribute Of Love—Mary A. P.
Hyde. Food For Thought—Zion’s Convert.
In memoriam. Obituaries. Sappho—E. B.W.
	EDITORIAL:—Suffrage In The West. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Too Late—H. Myrtle And Violets
—R. M. F. The Arbor Tree—Louise. Evening
Thoughts—Lydia D. Alder. Give Happiness.


[Column 1]
TOO LATE.

The golden rays of the setting sun,
	Through a rifting cloudland glare,
And linger lovingly on the heads,
	Of a youth and maiden fair.

He was noble, good, with manly mien,
	That foretold his life to be;
Sweet womanly virtues she possessed,
	God-given and rare to see.

No thought had they that their childood joys,
	Would flee with the passing day;
That life henceforth was reality,
 	The past but a sweet dream lay.

The fading lights throw their mellow beams,
	Far out o’er the distant land.
While the dark’ning twilight nearer draws,
	Where they still in silence stand.

Anon from the tranquil scene, his gaze
	Wandered to her upturned face;
In his tender glance and softened tone,
	Was the old, ‘‘old story’s’’ trace.

He loved her; and though in years his life
	Was young and as yet unknown;
But within his breast a man’s heart beats,
	And the flower of love was blown.

No whisper falls on her list’ning ear,
	Of the truth that lies concealed;
For her heart unconscious sleeps, nor knows
	The sweet secret unrevealed.

The parting words were quietly said,
	That took him far from her side;
And life traveled on its old sweet way,
	No thought for what might betide.

Years had passed since that fair summer day,
	When they watched the setting sun;
Years that had left their unerring mark,
	Yet many a vict’ry won.

No change had come to his constant heart,
	Though long days had come and gone;
His love had grown strong, and pure, and deep,
	While her heart still slumbered on.

“Arrested for crime!” The papers ran,
	The news spread quick as a glance; 
He lay that night in a prison cell,
	A victim of circumstance.

Held by the law for a deed most vile,
	That another’s hand had done;
But his heart was pure, his hands unsoiled, .
	And his guilt believed by none.

Only one night, but the sad mistake ,
	Had his fair name stigmatized,
And rendered his hopes of future bliss,
	But vain dreams unrealized.

[Column 2]
And she? A night of utter darkness 
	Took the place of sunny day.
When the gloom of that unkind story,
	Threw its shadow ’cross her way.

How often affliction’s hand must, turn
	The course of a loving heart,
And bridge the gulf of indifference.
	That holds it from love apart.

At last the star that should light her way,
	Has risen in clouds of despair;
Its dim rays fall on her lonely path,
	Like spectres so grim and bare.

Often to him her yearning heart longed
	Sweet words of hope to impart;
But his wounded pride forbade him speak,
	And they drifted still apart.

Alas, for the life that weary waits,
	For the joys that never come;
For the soul that starves for love’s caress,
	Whose lips are forever dumb.

A gloomy shroud of deathlike silence,
	Chased the light of glor’ous day,
Without a sorrow-laden chamber,
	Where she lonely dying lay.

She had waited long and patiently,
	For the words that never came—
Only a symbol that proved to her,
	That he still remained the same.
 
Sweet hope that once shone o’er her pathway,
	Now lies dead within her breast;
While oft the pale lips plantive murmur,
 	“Love, why thus my heart oppress?’’

But no answ’ring echo reached her ear,
	Her anguished heart to console.
Like a tender flower, storm-tossed and bruised,
	She has reached the heav’nly goal.

Softly the tread of a footstep falls,
	Without the death-chamber door,
He has hopeful come, his love to tell,
	And to count their parting o’er.

His passionate cry meets no response,
	As he kneels beside the cot;
Unheeded now his agonized words,
	“Come back, dear heart, leave me not."

Too late he has come with tales of love,
	To that still heart pleads in vain;
Too late he knows, that his selfish pride,
	His life’s dearest hope has slain.
April 30, 1896.	H.


[Column 1]
MYRTLE AND VIOLETS.
’TWAS only an old, faded letter,
	With some violets, pressed between
The folds that were yellow and broken,
	And a sprig of myrtle yet green.
But ’twas breathing of love and springtime,
	Of fields where the primroses grew,
Where buttercups, cowslips and daises,
	Were mingled with violets blue.
Which often in childhood they gathered,
	And under the sweet-scented May.
That so thickly clung to the hawthorne,
	He decked her with garlands so gay.
Sometime too in childish amazement
	They had gazed on the distant hill;
Where giants with eyes big as saucers
	So they said, were roaming at will.

[Column 2]
This letter had no thought of sorrow,
	Nor the slightest breath of a care:
But a glimpse of a rosy future,
	To which Eden alone could compare.
Ah! Well she remembered its coming,
	Why, only a short time ago,
She anxiously watched for the postman,
	So eager its contents to know.
It read, “you’re the best and the dearest,
	When, Oh when! will you name the day?
Your will shall be always my pleasure,
	Your life one long morning of May.”
Was ever a maiden so happy,
	Was ever a letter like this,
Or ever a future that promised,
	Such joy and such unceasing bliss? 
And Will was so tall and so handsome,
	His heart was so tender and true,
His strong arm would always protect her,
	“Good gracious my man is that you?”
“Why Susan I’ve come to my dinner;
	Don’t you hear the clock striking one,
And I’m in a hurry and hungry;
	For my work you know must be done.
I stopped to pick you these violets;
	The first in the meadow I’ve seen,
And here is a wee bit of myrtle,
	That through the long winter kept green.
They took me way back to our childhood;
	Why wife there’s a tear in your eye,
And you know I cannot be happy
	When you have a tear or a sigh.”
“Ah William you’ll have to excuse me;
	I’m sorry that dinner is late:
But you see, I found an old letter—
	Well here, let me give you a plate!
And I had forgotten the dinner,
	Indeed I was thinking of you;
When you had not yet reached the twenties;
	And now you are seventy-two.
I’d forgotten we had been married
	Pretty well on to fifty years;
Yes, I had forgotten our sorrows,
	Aye, even forgotten our tears.”
I did not remember the struggle
	We had that our babes might have bread:
How I felt when I thought I had lost you, 
	When the neighbors said you were dead!
Our children are wedded and settled:
	And I had forgotten their birth,
I remembered not the two darlings
	We laid deep, in the damp, cold earth.
For the time my mem’ry deceived me,
	I was living over again;
The days when we romped in the meadows,
	Or wandered through the green lane.
And William I know I’m provoking.
	But while reading that long-treasured note;
I forgot how terrible angry
	You were when I wanted to vote.
You’ve always been kind to me husband,
	But that was a puzzler for you;
When you found, expressed by the ballot,
	Sometimes our opinions were two.
But after all’s said we are here Will,
	Devoted as lovers could be;
And though our lives have been checkered,
	We still can look forward and see—


The future you wrought in my letter,
	All tinged with a glorious sun;
For William the end is approaching,
	And soon the great battle is won.
And, if the father should call me first dear,
	To cross over the dark ravine;
You’ll place in my hands lying folded,
	Some violets and myrtle so green.
	R.M.F.


146 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

SERICULTURE.

AN ACT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF SERI-
CULTURE IN THE STATE OF UTAH.

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State
of Utah.
	Section I. That for the term of ten years
after the passage of this Act, there shall be
paid out of the State treasury to any cor-
poration, firm or person engaged in the pro-
duction of cocoons of the silk worm in this
State, a bounty of twenty-five cents for each
pound of cocoons produced in the State, un-
der the conditions of this Act.
	Sec. 2 No bounty shall be paid for co-
coons not produced by worms fed entirely
upon the leaves of the mulberry tree, nor
shall more than two thousand dollars be
paid for bounties under the provisions of
this Act in any one year.
	Sec. 3. All claimants shall, from time to
time, as the board may prescribe, file verifi-
ed statements with said board, showing the
quantity and quality of the cocoons for
which bounty is claimed, the place and
county where and the conditions under
which the cocoons are produced, including
the species, and eggs produced, together
with any other information required by said
board to enable them to make and preserve
a complete and reliable record of the pro-
gress of silk culture in the State’
	Sec. 4. The Governor shall appoint a
committee to be known as the Utah Silk
Commission, to consist of five persons, not
more than three of whom shall be of the
same political party, who shall serve with-
out compensation, and who shall hold their
office until their successors are appointed
and qualified. The members of said com-
mission shall, except in the case of those
first appointed, hold their office for five
years, and until their successors are appoint-
ed and qualified. Those first appointed
shall hold office for one, two, three, four and
five years respectively, and until their suc-
cessors are appointed and qualified, the
length of time each appointee shall serve to
be stated by the Governor at the time of the
appointment of said commission. Each
member of said commission shall give a
bond, running to the State with sureties to
be approved by the Secretary of State, in
the sum of one thousand dollars condition-
ed for the faithful performance of the duties
of the office. The Governor shall have
power to fill any vacancy that may occur in
said commission.
	It shall be the duty of said commission
or its duly appointed representatives, to ex-
amine all cocoons for which bounty is
claimed, and after such examinations to
render a statement under oath to the Secre-
tary of State, showing the quantity, grade
and quality of the cocoons upon which
bounty shall be paid, and the name of the
party or corporation entitled thereto.
	Sec. 5. It shall also be the duty of said
commission to cause to be published, in
book or pamphlet form, explicit instructions

[Column 2]
in all the practical branches of sericulture,
for free distribution to the people of the
State; also to provide instructions in reeling
in each county raising one hundred pounds
of cocoons; to provide reliable eggs; and in
every way encourage those engaged in this
industry, and provide the best possible mar-
ket for reeled silk and cocoons uutil it can
be consumed by manufacturers in our
State.
	It shall also be the duty of this commis-
sion to render an annual report to the Secre-
tary of State.
	Sec. 6. For the purposes mentioned in
Sections 4 and 5 of this Act, the said com-
mission may use such sum as they may
deem requisite, and not to exceed the sum
of one thousand dollars in any one year.
	Sec. 7. The sum of three thousand dol-
lars per year, out of any moneys now in, or
which may hereafter come into the treasury,
excluding all school moneys, or so much
thereof as maybe necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Act, is hereby appropriat-
ed for the purposes of this Act. The audit-
or shall draw his warrant upon the treasur-
er in favor of the person or persons entitled,
upon the certificate, showing a compliance
with the provisions of this Act.
	Sec. 8. Any person who shall knowing-
ly swear falsely to any matter or statement
in any section of this Act, shall be guilty of
perjury.
	The Secretary of State in his discretion
may, at any time require the statements of
claimants to be supported by the affidavits
of other persons having a knowledge of the
facts.
	Sec. 9. This Act shall take effect upon
its approval.
	Approved April 4, 1896.


AN IMPORTANT INDUSTRY.

	THERE is no doubt but all those who
have been in the past interested in silk, are
aware of the fact that a bill for the estab-
lishment of sericulture in Utah, was passed
by the last Legislature, and will make
themselves familiar with the provisions of
the bill. The Commission appointed are
very anxious to have just as much work
done as possible this year. The season for
raising cocoons is now upon us, and we
have decided the most we will be able to do
this year, will be to publish in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT, some instructions to
those wishing to commence work at once.
	We are also prepared to furnish a limited
amount of eggs to those who wish them.
Persons desiring to obtain eggs from the
Commission, will write at once to Mar-
gar t A. Caine, 732 S., 5th East, Salt Lake
City, and state the number of trees, and
age of the trees from which they can obtain
leaves; also the number of persons they ex-
pect to have assist them in the work. If
you are not a subscriber for the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, we will send you the papers
containing information which will be of use
to you.
	The establishment of this industry will
also bring a new work for the Horticultur-
ists, as the raising of the best varity of mul-
berry trees will in the future be a very im-
portant matter. For the present old trees
should be well trimmed to cause the leaves
to grow thicker upon the branches, and
contain much more of the essential proper-
ties, than by letting them remain in the old
bushy state. In some parts of the State,


there is still time to set out slips; so that in 
a few years we will have thousands of new
trees growing in all parts of the State. We
are very sorry to hear of the damage done
by frost in the Southern part of the State,
but still hope the people of that part may
raise an encouraging crop of silk this year.
We will be pleased to give any information
to parties communicating with us, that will
assist them in raising silk.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club, was held at the office of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, March 31, 1896,
E.B. Wells presiding. Opened with pray-
er by C C. R. Wells, Roll call answered
by sentiments. The Secretary read the
Minutes which were approved. Miscellan-
eous business was next in order, and the
name of Miss S. L. Monroe was presented
and unanimously accepted as a member of
the Club. A letter from the Utah Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs was then read as-
signing the topic for the Annual Meeting,
the subject being “What some clubs are
doing in the east.” The President ex-
plained the Federation,its origin and object,
for the benefit of the new members. An
invitation was read from Mrs. L. S. Dickin-
son to the Club, to hold their next meeting
at her residence. It was moved and carried
that we accept the invitation with thanks.
Dr. Curtis then recited an original poem in
a very pleasing manner; this poem being
dedicated to the ladies of the U. W. P. C.
	This was followed by a paper, “George
on Jefferson,” by Henry George, relating
to the Single Tax. This was followed by
an interesting discussion in which the mem-
bers took part.
	Pres. E. B. Wells gave her idea on the
single tax question, saying, it is a tax on
land according to its value, it is growing in
favor and may, perhaps, eventually prevail;
but it does not constitute all the knowledge
of politics we need. Large land owners
object to single tax—lands valued by their
location, and not by their buildings.—The
one permanent idea is to exempt labor and
put the burden on the wealthy land owners,
because the present status shows the small
land owners to be at the mercy of those who
own large sections of land. Single tax
prevents the former class evading taxation.
President Brigham Young’s idea was for
every one to own a small amount of land
and cultivate the small buildings. The one
question arises: “Is single tax unconstituti-
onal?”
	The Secretary then read a chapter on
parliamentary law, followed by discussion.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde made a motion which
was carried, that the President appoint the
delegate to the federation. The President
then appointed Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to repre-
sent the Utah W. P. C. and to report the
year’s work. Laura Hyde, Pearl Rus-
sell Olea Shipp and Edith Rossiter to
serve on the committee for refreshment and
decorations. The appointment of the lady
to give the paper at the Federation was
postponed till the business meeting on the
15th of April. Adjournment was next in
order benediction was pronounced by Maria
W. Wilcox.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ARBOR TREE.

On the school-grounds gathered
	On a smiling April day; 
Teachers, friends and scholars,
	All in holiday array.
There a little tree they planted,
	Straight and tall and slim,
Pretty verses there they chanted,
	As its roots they covered in.
Through the spring the children watched it,
	Watched its tiny leaves unfold,
And eagerly they guarded it,
	From all dangers manifold.
For they loved this tree they planted
	And they longed to have it be,
Free from every mark or blemish,
	A stately, perfect tree.
That to them ’twould be a symbol,
	Of a life upright and true,
To their hearts a happy memory,
	Of the childhood that they knew.
And this the tree the children planted
	Grew both beautiful and strong 
Like a sentinel it guarded,
	The happy childish throng. 
But the years bring many changes
	And as the children had to part
With the school friends and the school days,
	So dear to every heart.
The dear old tree remained there,
	Through the years that come and go, 
Through the springtime with its verdure, 
	Through the winter with its snow.
Ever watching o’er the children,
	As they play beneath its shade,
Ever listening to the childish vows,
	And the many games they played.
Oh may this tree forever,
	Through the years that come and go,
Be spared from wind and weather,
	From the woodman’s fatal blow. 
And live on and on forever,
	A mighty tree to be,
And children always love to gather,
	’Neath our own dear Arbor Tree.
	LOUISE.


[Column 1]

EVENING THOUGHTS.

THE twilight gently deepens
	The stars shine one by one;
The sun’s last fading rays,
	Proclaim the day is done.
The loving kine wend homeward
	Along the dusty way;
The song birds trill their faintest notes—
	It is the close of day.
The silver moon ascends the sky,
	And softly beams her light;
O’er all the world majestic sails
	This glorious Queen of night. 
Hushed are the sounds of men—
	A peace broods over all,
Save now and then the night birds scream
	Sounds to its mate a call.
O, peaceful eve, O, holy hush
	That comes when the day is done,
To soothe the spirit’s restlessness 
	With communings all its own. 
The thoughts of earth now fade
	To the unknown world they soar:
And long to fashion the mystery
	Of the life that went before.

[Column 2]
In which of the shining planets
	Did I have primeval birth?
And what of the days forgotten
	Before the scenes of earth.
The stars for answer twinkle
	In the vaulted space of blue;
And cluster there in bands of gold.
	Their boundaries hid from view.
How the throbbing heart beats faster
	And sighs for the far away;
O', where are the gorgeous sunsets
	That charmed us yesterday?
All life’s today, yesterday
	Or that which is to come;
The sunsets flow with changing light
	When every day is done.
The evening shades now darken
	But the song of the Whippoor-will
Far away to the mountain
	Brings to my heart a thrill.
There is a life beyond the shadows
	A life beyond the stars!
Else, where did I hear the music
	With no discordant bars?
O, we yearn for the life Immortal
	As we long for the close of day;
When with weary, heavy eyelids
	We are fainting by the way.
Oh! Does the sun’s last setting
	And the shadows that come with the night
Remind us that we are but mortal
	Not always to walk by sight?
Away from the bright starry heavens
	I turn to the homes of earth; 
With a feeling of utter nothingness
	And how of little worth.
The fire-flies are now on the wing,
	As I loiter by the way;
They brighten the pathway before me,
	With colors both varied and gay.
Ah! Well we can go no farther
	For God has willed it so;
But sometime when the finite is ended
	We’ll the vast and the Infinite know.
LYDIA D. ALDER
	Read before the conjoint meeting of the Y. L,
& M. I. A. of First and Second Wards Feb. 18,
1896.


IN EDUCATING THE HEAD DON'T
FORGET TO CLOTHE THE HEART.

	“A man is known by the company he
keeps” or we may say it is the association
that corrects or demoralizes the man. Fur-
ther, a man or a people can be measured by
the way their time and powers are spent.
For proof of it we only have to look about
us and we can see the fulfillment of this in
every individual in their upward course to
success or their downward course to failure.
	I heard a person say that people were
known by the clothes that they wear. It 
seemed hard at that time, for an unfortu-
nate poor person to be thus judged; but that
saying is filled with more or less signifi-
cance; for industry, perseverance, economy
of time, labor and means, brings happiness,
health and wealth. But indolence, extrav-
agance and recklessness, result in poverty,
drunkenness and crime.
	As the outer man, so is the inner. The
external is an imprint of the internal. If
the heart is filled with graces, clothed with
charity, faith and the love of God, a care
for others will be exhibited in their acts,
there will be manifested the true nature of
the being, which is the unfolding of the in-


ternal. Thus we are bound to acknowledge,
by the laws of cause and effect, that God
abides in the individual, because he ob-
serves the laws of God. Thus man or
mortality approaches nearer to divinity.
	Our culture should be continuous; if so
we are morally enriched, and a knowledge
of this fact once obtained, stimulates further
exertion; as the individual has discovered a.
previously hidden mystery,—that the bitter
in his organism is being supplanted by some-
thing more beautiful and desirable. The
child first moves by instinct, but it requires
constant watching, thought and growth, to
develop the God-like man.
	Law is the first and grand principle by
which man is protected temporally and spir-
tually. If we transgress the laws of na-
ture, sickness is liable to be the result. If
we transgress the laws of God, we meet his
displeasure or disapproval, and if His spirit
is withdrawn from us as Paul said “We are
of all men most miserable.” Our spirit
has then lost luster, hope is defered, the
law has been broken, and discouragement
is the result, because His teachable spirit
had departed. Disparagement is not al-
ways a hopeless condition. Great results have
been achieved when apparently all hope
was lost, because some condition had awak-
ened or stimulated fresh courage, and faith,
a living moving principle to all action, still
existed in the heart, and we learn, by it
worlds were formed. It is the principle
upon which God moves and man is sustain-
ed.
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.


WOMEN IN OFFICE.

	 GAYLORD, Smith county, Kansas, is the
second city in Kansas to pass under control
of women exclusively. The city govern-
ment was turned over recently to the fol-
lowing officers: Mayor, Mrs. Antionette
Haskell, Police Judge, Mrs. Mary Foote.
Members of the Council—Mrs. Martha
Johnson, Mrs. Luella Abercrombie, Mrs.
Emma Mitchell, Mrs. Mary White and Mrs.
Nancy Wright. Miss Florence Headley
was appointed City Clerk and Mrs. M. J
Cline, City Marshal. This is Mrs Haskell’s
second term as Mayor, and she performed
her duties so satisfactorily a complete wo-
man’s Council was elected this year. Mrs.
Haskell is a Democrat, but the ticket was
not elected on party lines, the members of
the Council being about evenly divided be-
tween Republicaan and Populists. Ex.


GIVE HAPPINESS.

GIVE happiness. What if thy heart be sad?
Dry thine own eyes to wipe another’s tears.
In this good world there are so many biers
Carried by souls in blackest raiment clad,
Souls dazed by desolation and half-mad,
Mourning their dead—dead hopes; dead joys,
	dead years—
Blind to the star that every midnight cheers, 
Deaf to the song that makes each morning glad.
Give spicy blooms where flowers never grow, 
	Give food where starving hearts fight fate’s 
	decree,
Give rest where tired hands and feet drag slow,
	Give sight to eyes too full of tears to see,
Give music where sweet trumpets never blow,
	Give happiness, and joy shall garment thee.
—Emma C. Dowd, in the Congregationalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis
p unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M, I. Business hours from
to 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class.matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY, 1, 1896.


SUFFRAGE IN THE WEST

	THE agitation of woman suffrage in Cali-
fornia, Arizona and Idaho, is attracting
much attention and comment throughout
the several states that have taken an active
part in the questions of the day. In Cali-
fornia particularly there is a regular cam-
paign going on at the present time and Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Anna H. Shaw,
Miss Yates' Miss Hay, Miss Mills and Lucy
E. Anthony are working vigorously to se-
cure the amendment to the Constitution
which shall give suffrage to women, mak-
ing them eligible to vote and hold office in
the State of California.
	The Amendment will be submitted to the
voters in November, 1896; if it receives a
majority of votes cast thereon at that elec-
tion, it will be a part of the Constitution
without further proceedings. Meantime
the State is being thoroughly awakened,
and suffrage sentiment is in the air, and be-
ing wafted broadcast as never before on the
Pacific Coast, and in every nook and cor-
ner of the State.
	Mrs. Laura M. Johns has been doing
good work in organizing and speaking in
Arizona, and will be here now very soon
on her way to Idaho. Mrs. Diggs will join
her in Idaho, and the two will make a very
strong team, both are such ardent advocates
and such eloquent speakers, and are so well
adapted to public work of this sort, that the
cause must be greatly benefited, and nu-
merous converts made by means of their
logical arguments.
	To secure planks in the party platforms
Miss Anthony declares is one of her hobbies,
and it is certainly a great advantage gained,
for when once a plank is introduced it is
pretty sure to be voted upon, men will
not usually go back upon the platform they
had sustained publicly.
	In Utah the struggle is over, there is to
be sure, educational work to do among the
people generally, and wisdom is needed as
well as knowledge that the advantages
gained be used for the good of the common-
wealth and no individual caprice or am-
bitious desire for power or the spoils of
office ought to be allowed to creep in and
usurp the place of conscience and beguile
women into doing that which may seem
expedient but which is not straight-forward,
each woman should as far as possible in-
vestigate for herself and be sure she is right
and honest in politics, as well as in other
matters which pertain to one's well-being.
	It is well when doubtful on a subject to


give one’s self the benefit of the doubt, and
wait to be fully convinced before taking any
step that will be regretted afterwards.
	Certainly it is not expected women will
not make any mistakes, but it is right to
anticipate some good results from the new
element infused into the politics of the new
state. All the women (and possibly many
men) are watching the women voters of
Utah with greater interest, we are told upon
good authority, than they watched the wo-
men of Wyoming and Colorado. There-
fore it behooves Utah women to set a good
example to the women of the other states.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Presidents of the state organizations
of Relief Society in all the Stakes of Zion
are urgently requested to prepare a com-
plete list of their Stake officers, and also of
the Presidents and Secretaries of each ward
in the respective Stake, with Post Office ad-
dresses of each person and forward to this
office for publication. These lists will be
carefully arranged and printed in the
Deseret News; since the request was made
at the Relief Society Conference in April,
two or three lists have been forwarded, but
it is essential that all should be given with-
out further delay. Presidents will also
please state at what time their Stake Con-
ferences are held. Address these com-
munications to E. B. Wells, Office WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE setting apart of a day for the plant-
ing of trees, is no less poetical than it is im-
portant, and the observance of this day by
the public schools has a tendency to elevate
the children’s minds with, regard to the use
and the beauty of trees. The season this
year was most unfavorable for out door ex-
ercises by the schcool children, as the day
—the fifteenth of April—was very stormy
and disagreeable however indoor exercises
appropriate to the occasion were held,
though the pretty idea of planting a tree
had to be postponed. In some of the dis-
tricts the trustees set a later day and the full
program was carried out, and very delight-
ful exercises were held in the Fortieth Dis-
trict where the three schools—the Fortieth,
the Waterloo and the Morse—met at the
first named school house, and held their
exercises conjointly on the school grounds.
The music, the essays, the addresses by
Superintendent Van Cott and Mr. Betts
and the class recitations by the children,
were very much enjoyed and after the ex-
ercises a fine Box Elder Tree was planted
on the school grounds, the children all
promising to guard and tend it. As an ex-
ample of the benefit the children derive
from this simple practice, a little girl of
eleven summers recited a poem of her own
composition. It was her remembrance of the
planting of the Arbor tree the previous
year, and the impression it made upon her,
and we take great pleasure in publishing
the childish verses on another page.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

(To the memory of Sister Minerva W. Snow.)
Dear Exponent:
	I wish to say a few words in commem-
oration of my dear departed friend and
Counselor, Sister Minerva W. Snow, whose
sudden death occurred in less than two
weeks after our meeting together in our
Relief Society Stake Conference, held at


Moroni, March 21, on which occassion she
spoke with much fervency, feeling a deep
interest in the spiritual as well as temporal
welfare of the association.
	We became acquainted in the early days
of the Nauvoo experiences, and had the
privilege of learning from the Prophet's
own lips, many valuable truths, which
were sacred and life-giving; which never
departed from us, but enabled us to hold
sweet communion together, especially in the
hour of trial, which was more precious than
worldly honors. We also received instruc-
ions on the principle of celestial, or plural
marriage which he established before his
death; which testimony he sealed with his
blood. I witnessed his departure from Nau-
voo when he said: "I go as a lamb to the
slaughter, but am calm as a summer morn-
ing."
	After the exodus from Nauvoo, we settled
in Salt Lake City for a time, when her hus-
band, Apostle Erastus Snow, was called to 
preside in St. George, Washington Co., and
Sister Minerva Snow was appointed to pre-
side over the Stake Relief Society, also to
labor in the Temple ordinances, after the
Temple at St. George was dedicated.
	About the same time that Brother Snow
was called, my husband, Apostle Orson
Hyde was appointed to preside in Sanpete
Stake. We kept up a correspondence, and,
as our Manti Temple was nearly completed,
I was called to labor in the St. George
Temple, where our friendly relations were
renewed; subsequently I returned to my
home in Sanpete.
	Circumstances have since transpired to
bring us together again. Having lost my
First Counselor, she was chosen to occupy
that position, which she filled ably for
several years.
	We left Moroni together, after our late
Relief Society Conference and spent the
night at Ephraim to visit our dear friend
and fellow laborer, Sister Sarah A. Peter-
son, she not having been able to attend our
Conference. We had a very pleasant visit
together, little thinking it would be the
last in company with each other. Sister
Minerva was ever true and faithful; always
the same, seeking to do good on all possible
occassions, and her name will be cherished
in fond remembrance by the young as
well as the old. She was chosen as an aid
to Sister Stena Willardson, President of the
Young Ladies' Stake Association, to whom
she was much attached, and with her labor-
ed for their growth in intelligence and use
ful knowledge.
	MARY A. P. HYDE


FOOD FOR THOUGHT.

	WHEN we contemplate what we are and
what we should be, we find that the mind
needs food as well as the body: and needs
plain substantial food, which will both re-
fresh and strengthen it.
	Where can it be found if not in the holy
scriptures. Here we find the thoughts,
the feelings and the trials of people who
lived in this fallen world many ages since,
yet their natures were the same as our own.
	I was impressed in early youth, by Bible
lessons which we found in our school books.
 What is more interesting than the history
of Joseph being sold into Egypt by his
brethren? Is not this food for thought; es-
pecially when you see an alwise ruler lead-
ing, guiding and controlling every event to


[Column 1]
benefit and preserve the precious child, un
til his father saw him again.
	Here we find him a wise counselor to the
king, able to interpret his dreams and save
his father’s house in time of famine. Such
food is beneficial to humanity; is it not?
	Then another, the King David, when
but a boy tending his father’s sheep. His
brother reproving him said: “Why did
you leave those sheep to come to see the
battle?” He replies, is there not a cause,
and in speaking of Goliah says “Shall he
defy the armies of the living God?” Not if
he could help it. And help it he did, as
you well know. Is not this food for thought
showing us what faithfulness and true in-
tegrity can do for the cause we are engaged
in, I think so.
	This was the food I enjoyed in my youth,
and took pleasure in reading the scriptures;
and now since I have heard the Gospel in
its fulness, and accepted its message, and
listened to its warning, I have greater joy
in the precious book, because I can see
more clearly and better understand our
Father’s designs and purposes concerning
the human family; and I must say now the
food seems better than at first.
	Do not we find the writings of all inspired
men, both ancient and modern, food for
thought; and after reading their history we
can notice from observation, the same re-
sults to-day, especially in reading the rise
and fall of nations; we find they rose when
pursuing an upright and honorable course,
dealing righteously with their fellow-man
but fell when they took the opposite course.
this produced the opposite effect, you know.
	Shall I ever forget the joy I felt when I
found this latter day work was exactly the
same that Jesus taught; also the same or-
ganization, the same gifts and graces. I
felt to exclaim, how could we be prepared for
the Millennium without it! I found it precious
food for the mind, and it ever has been
since that time, which was in the year
1842—I first heard the true and everlasting
Gospel in Oneida Co., N. Y. In 1843 I
went to Nauvoo III., and in 1844 attended
the funeral of the Prophet and his brother,
who were slain by the mob.
	I previously thought if he were slain, I
would lose my faith, but not so; I was much
stronger than ever. Did not Jesus and His
disiples lose their lives in this cause, and
many prophets like John the Baptist etc.
could we expect less?
	It is now over fifty years. I have not
time or space to tell you of the various trials
we have passed through in this time. But
one thing I will tell you is simply this;
when we acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in our trouble as Job did, when he said to
his wife “Has He not a right to chastise as
well as to bless?’’ Yes when we accept it as
a chastisement from God our Father, a
blessing always follows and we prosper
again. Now is not this food for thought?
	Only think of the time Gen. Johnston’s
Army came to Utah, expecting to fight; the
Lord gave us wisdom to defeat the army,
without a drop of bloodshed. Then we
were told we should be forgiven if we
would not hurt the army. Soon after they
were called home to fight in the rebellion of
the Southern States. Here their blood was
shed Gen. Johnston belonged to the South
and joined that side after his return.
	This reminds me of Daniel in the lion’s
den. He was saved but his enemies lost
their lives as they intended he should.
	Is not this food for thought; yes food

[Column 2]
which will teach us humility I think and an
earnest persevering zeal to love God, and
keep his commandments more perfectly.
 	Yet it has been prophesied that the time
will come when we will be tried by riches.
	It is now sixty-six years since the Church
was organized, and our trials have been
numerous. Some are anxious to be tried
by riches, but I am not. I prefer the pro-
phet’s prayer, who said “Give me neither
poverty or riches, but send me work and
comfort me, lest I be poor and steal and take
the name of my God in vain, or be rich and
deny Thee, and say who is the Lord.”
	We find in the Book of Mormon a profit-
able lesson on this subject; It is the his-
tory of the Nephites after the resurrection
of our Savior. These people had survived
the destruction which took place here at the
time of His crucifixion and felt to bless
God for their deliverance.—Only think of
the joy they felt upon seeing the Savior,
whose blood had been shed for them.
	He told them who he was and blessed
them, teaching them how to live to His
honor and glory; they listened and obeyed,
and their hearts rejoiced while keeping his
laws. Yes for three generations they were
prospered and blessed and became rich.
Then in the fourth generation they allowed
pride to take possession of their minds.
Then the good spirit left them, and envy,
hatred and malice proved their destruction.
Is not this food for thought?
	You will find this account in the 30th
book of Nephi, and on page 539 you find
Jesus last words (28th Chap.) to this peo-
ple.
	You will remember our Savior told his
disciples before his death saying “Woe be to
you when all the world speak well of you.”
Now only think that in 66 years we have
passed through many trials, and we are
now divided by politics, which causes an-
other struggle; yet our people feel comfort-
ed because the world at large are more
favorable towards the Mormons. Well
shall we become proud because of this, or
shall we not rather fear the tempter who
knows the weakness of our natures better
than we know them ourselves, and is ever
ready to trip our feet and cause us to fall?
But the precious Book of Mormon gives
us a word of comfort on this subject saying
these weaknesses were given us for a pur-
pose, for without them we would not be
humble. This is new food for thought, and
we find it ever so do we not?
	You know when pride and self-conceit
get the best of us, we are not content to
listen to counsel but go on until we find our
mistake, then we are humble and try again,
for dignity and self-respect will encourage
us to try again, and also to try with care
and caution lest we fall again
	Such is life, yet all things will work to-
gether for good to those who love God and
are called according to His purpose. This
St. Paul tells us.
	Again to-day in taking up the sacred
writings I find food for thought; in Section
90, 17th Verse of Doctrine and Covenants, it
reads thus; “Be not ashamed neither con-
founded, but be admonished in all your
high-mindedness and pride; for it bringeth
a snare upon your souls.” Also says “Set
your houses in order; keep slothfulness and
uncleanness far from you.”
	This we understand. We are not fit for
our Father’s Kingdom unless we are pure,
both mentally and physically pure.—We
must remember also that this high-minded-

[Column 3]
ness and pride bringeth a snare upon our
souls. Now I would ask how shall we de-
fine this. We know that dignity and self-
respect belong to the Deity. Did not our
Savior possess the dignity when He refused
every offer the tempter offered Him? Yet
He gained the victory by humility, even by
fasting and prayer, for forty days and
nights; is not this humility?
	Our Savior said when you pray say our
Father in heaven; Accordingly we believe
the Deity to be our Father, yet he is angry
with the wicked every day. Does He say
we shall not get angry? No He says “Be
angry and sin not.’’
	He then requires us to be patient and
trust the event in His hands, for He says
“Vengeance is mine, I will repay.” Here
we see He requires us to be humble and
have confidence in His promises, teaching
us, it is better to suffer wrong than to do
wrong. Then as obedient children let us
remember we are not to retaliate, knowing
they will be rewarded according to their
works, but we are not the ones to do it.
This is more food for thought.
	I think we find (if I understand the
scriptures correctly) that humility is the
spirit of the Gospel and pride the spirit of
the world and since we came here to learn
both is it not best to meet one at a time, to
become properly acquainted? We find
where both meet in contest, it creates such
confusion that we do not get acquainted
with either properly.
	We are of the earth earthy, and must
know the spirit of the world. Yet the
spirit of the Gospel will enable us to govern
and control that of the world; as the poet
says,
‘‘Govern your passions with absolute sway,
And grow wiser and better as life wears away.”
	And again since we are made in the
image of God, and have His attributes to a
greater or less extent, one would think we
would naturally incline to the good spirit.
Yes truly are not little children naturally
pure and good, so that our Savior blessed
them? Yes indeed, yet how long does it
take to learn the opposite when in company
with those whose whole soul is in the
world? not long. Then comes the struggle
of life to give each of those spirits its
proper value and its proper place.
	It takes a wise parent to do this; one who
has met the struggle himself, and has found
the rule of action given by our Savior the
only true course to pursue. It may well be
called the true riches, because it makes
happy homes, dutiful children and loving
parents. When we arrive at this state of
perfection, for such it is, then we can ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things
which brought us to this crisis; and re-
member the words of Jesus who said “If
you will keep my laws as I kept my Fath-
er’s laws, you shall share with me in my
glory.” Is not this food for thought, and
the right kind of food? Much might be
said upon this subject from scripture stand-
point.
	ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL EXCURSION.
TO CARDSTON CANADA.
	May 18th, the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge
Canada, the nearest railroad point to Cards-
ton. Fare for the round trip only $40.50.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.


WOMAN'S' EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Maria Jane Chaffin, beloved wife
of George E. Chaffin, and daughter of Moses
Wade and Mary Kirkbride Wade. She was born
Jan. 15, 1856, in Salt Lake City, died Feb. 22, 1896
in Teasdale, Wayne Co., Utah. She leaves a hus-
band and seven children, two daughters and five
sons, with many friends to mourn her departure
from this life, Our beloved sister was second
Counselor to the President of the Teasdale Relief
Society, and was ever desirous to do a good part.
She was very generous, and a friend to the poor.
She was highly intelligent, and had faith in the
principles of the Gospel; was ever ready to defend
the cause of truth she had embraced in early
youth, and taught the same to her family, and en-
couraged them to take an active part in the Asso-
ciations for the youth of Zion. She was favored
some years since, with a day vision; her spiritual
eyes were opened, and she beheld her father (who
was dead) in the spirit world preaching the Gos-
pel, surrounded by a large audience of people,
who were attentive listeners. This made a strong
impression upon her mind, and she realized the
vicarous labor being done in the life beyond; and
before her death was very desirous to attend to
Temple work. She was a devoted wife and a
loving mother, and was much respected by all
who knew her. May her family emulate her pre-
cepts and example, for she died as she had lived,
a faithful Latter-day Saint, true to the cause of
truth, and she will receive the pleasing and just
reward which is promised by our Heavenly Fath-
er to those who endure faithfully to the end.
	J.S.C.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	WE the Sisters of the Cottonwood Ward Relief
Society, do deeply feel the loss of our beloved
sister and president, Emma Morris. whom God
our Heavenly Father has in His infinite goodness
and mercy, seen fit to call from our midst.
	Be it resolved that we as a band of sisters, emu-
late her worthy examples, and her kind and
motherly counsel; she was indeed a mother to the
needy, a comforter to those cast down in trouble;
a true and sincere friend to all that knew her. We
sincerly sympathize with the bereaved children;
at the same time we ourselves feel, that we have
lost a mother.

	Memorial Services were held in honor and es-
teem of our departed Sister Emma Morris, who
died at Morgan, Utah, Jan. 6, 1896, that having
been her former home; but she had been a resi-
dent of Star Valley, Cottonwood Ward, for the
past seven years, and was also President of the
Relief Society of this place. She was very ener-
getic and faithful in all her duties, and a Saint in
very deed. She left here the first of last June, to
care for some sick relative, who resided in Mor-
gan. Her time was spent in doing good among
her relatives and friends, until she was taken sick
and died after an illness of about three weeks.
She was a kind and loving mother and sincere
friend to all associated with her. Aged 56 years,
11 months, 6 days; she leaves 7 children, 15 grand-
children and an aged father and mother, and a
host of friends to  mourn her loss. She died as
she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, beloved
by all who knew her.
	C.J.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	TO the memory of Sister Polly Carter, who de-
parted this life March 24, 1896, at her residence in
Provo City, after one year of lingering illness,
suffering with catarrh of the stomach. She was
the wife of Dominicus Carter, a Pioneer of Utah.
Sister Carter was born in New London, Huron
County, Ohio May 6, 1831. She came to Utah in
1852, with her mother Tamma Minor and the
family, her father having died Jan. 3, 1848, not far
from Boneparte, on the Des Moines River.
	She, with her parents, endured the buffettings
of the early Saints. Her mother was sick and
practically an invalid, and on her at an early age
devolved the responsibility of caring for the fam-
ily of five, as well as a sick mother, now,
	Therefore, we the members of the Relief Soci-
ety, wish to express the honor and respect enter-
tained by us for her as a true friend. She held
the office of a teacher in the Relief Society since
its first organization in this the 3rd Ward of Pro-
vo:
	She was also a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., in
which she was very much appreciated and held in

[Column 2]

high esteem, for her wise teachings and example.
	Whereas, we acknowledge her loss and her
readiness at all times to give a helping hand, and
use her influence for the furtherance of the great
Latter-day work,
	Therefore be it, Resolved that we deeply sym-
pathize with her bereaved family and friends, and
further
	Be it resolved that these resolutions be record-
ed in the records of the Relief Society, and the
Young Ladies Journal, and that copies be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and to the family of the
deceased.
	HANNAH T. CLARK,
	ARVILLA PERRY, } Committee
	LEMIRA COLLINS,
	EMILY M. CLARK, Sec.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	TO the memory of Sister Janet Laird Jenkins
who departed this life March 28th, 1896. She took
to her bed Tuesday and passed peacefully away
Saturday afternoon. Deceased was born January
13th, 1821, at Kinnaird, Larbert, Sterlingshire,
Scotland, married to James H. Jenkins in 1842.
Was baptized in the church May 27, 1847 by Peter
Moffet at Ardrie Lanarkshire Scotland.
	Confirmed by James Wilson May 30th, 1842.
Emigrated to Utah in 1863, arrived in Goshen
1864. Deceased was the mother of thirteen
children, seven of whom preveded her to the
spirit world. There are sixty-seven grand
children and twenty seven great grand-children.
	She endured many hardships in the old world,
crossing the plains and, in this country; but she
was ever firm and true to the gospel; was always
a very devoted and loving wife, living in peace
and harmony with her husband for nearly fifty
years and when he was incarcerated in the Utah
pennitentiary for conscience sake five years
ago last October, was their first separation
and when in the following February he was
brought home a corpse, her grief was intense;
but she doubled her energy in the gospel, doing
everything she could to carry out his wishes,
helping care for his young family and never tiring
in performing her church duties. She has been a
faithful member and teacher in the Relief Society
from the beginning; always loving to attend her
meetings better than anything else.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call away our beloved sister and co-worker to a
higher sphere.
	Therefore be it resolved that wethe officers and
members feel the loss of such an energetic work-
er in the cause of Lord, for her very last work
done on this earth was in performing her duty as
a visiting teacher of the Relief Society; yet we
realize she has gone to reap a glorious reward in
the Celestial Kingdom of God.
	Resolved that we try to emulate her good
example and good works that we may be able to
meet with our beloved sister again.
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family and earnestly pray that the holy
spirit of God may rest down upon them that they
may walk in her footsteps and be prepared to
again meet with their beloved mother and com- 
panion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, one be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT and one be inserted upon our
records.
“As a teacher she faithfully guarded that trust,
Her motto was wear,out but never to rust,
The last work she did was in filling this call,
As an angel of mercy with blessing for all.”
	ELLISON GOURLEY,	}
	MARY DODDS, 		} Committee.
	LUCY TAYLOR.		}


[Column 1]

SAPPHO.

HER LIFE AND WORKS.
(Preamble.)
	So little is really known of Sappho, that
one is compelled to depend upon what has
been handed down, which is partly legen-
dary, and very many people only consider
Sappho a myth.
	To me as a child Sappho was a reality,
and an ideal creature at the same time. I
can scarcely remember so young was I,
when I first heard Sappho talked of, nor
when I first read her name underneath the
picture which hung in the little chamber or
nursery where I slept. I recall it now,

[Column 2]
with its glow of beautiful coloring, and the
wondrous beauty of every outline of her
graceful figure as she appeared to my child-
ish eyes. Sappho with a harp in one hand,
which I supposed made of gold, and the gar-
land of lilies, as I thought, in the other, leap-
ing from the Leucadian rock into the yawn-
ing abyss below;—many a time have I fallen
asleep with the picture in my mind fancy-
ing I saw her motion in the very act of
springing into the water, her dress actually
fluttering in the wind.
	I am sure I must have wearied my mother
with the endless queries I put to her about
Sappho; why she wanted to throw herself
from the rock, and what love was, or Cupid
that made her do it; and why she sung
sweeter than all the Greek maidens? and
every other imaginary question. But in
truth I was never quite satisfied, nor am I
yet, nor are any of those who hanker after
the unattainable, the mystery of mysteries.
I hope some time the secret of Sappho will
be unraveled, and that we shall find she
was really a creature of flesh and blood, and
not a myth, or simply an ideal.

	The best knowledge of Sappho extant is
that she lived and flourished before the
Christian era, reaching the zenith of her
fame about 610 B. C. It was during
her life time Jeremiah began to prophecy,
and Daniel was carried away to Babylon.
Solon was legislating at Athens, and Tar-
quinius Priscus, the fifth king, is said to
have been reigning over Rome. She lived
before the birth of Guatuma, the founder of
Buddhism. It is not strange that twenty-
five centuries should have made her record
unauthentic. It is almost wonderful that
anything even legendary should be left of
one who lived so long ago, and who was
only a woman, and a poet-songstress. One
writer says had it not been for the quota-
tions of lexicographers and grammarians
no word of hers would have survived; al-
though history says her writings were pre-
served intact, until 360 A. D., and
the Athenian comic poet, Epicrates, who
wrote about that time, says in his Anti-Lais
that he too,
“Had learned by heart completely all the songs,
Breathing love, that sweetest Sappho sung.”
	Some historians affirm, although
there is no confirmatory evidence, that the
works of Sappho and other lyric poet, were
burnt at Constantinople and at Rome, in
the year 1073, in the popedom of Gregory
V 11. Cordan says the burning took place
under Gregory Magianzen, about 380, A.D.
	Bishop Blomfield, who is an acknowl-
edged authority, thinks they must have
been destroyed at an early date, because
neither Alcaeus nor Sappho are annotated
by any of the later grammarians.
	The origin of Sappho is also more or less
mythical. Herodotus says her father was
Scamandronymus, but Suidas, who com-
piled a Greek lexicon in eleven hun-
dred, gives us the choice of seven other
names. Her mother's name was Cleis. It
is possible too that she was born at Mitylene
the chief city of the island of Lesbos, an is-
land in the Agean sea. Strabo in her geogra-
phy says Mitylene, formerly produced cele
brated men, such as Pittacus, one of the wise
men, Alcaeus, the poet, and others “Contem-
porary with these flourished Sappho, who
was something wonderful; at no period
within memory, has any woman been
known, who in any way, even in the least
degree, could be compared to her for poetry.”


[Column 1]
The glory of Lesbos was that Sappho was 
its citizen, and its chief fame centres in the
fact of her celebrity.
	“Where burning Sappho loved and sung.”
is a quotation familiar to us all; the island is
famous now for its oil and wine, and its
salubrity. Virgil refers to its vines which
trailed like ivy on the ground, and many
authors testify to the wholesomeness of
Lesbos wine.
	Sappho was of the Aeolian race, and Sy-
monds in his Studies of Greek Poets says
“The Aeolians occupied the very fore-
ground of Greek literature, and blazed out
with a brilliance of lyrical splendor that has
never been surpassed. This passion blos-
somed into the most exquisite lyrical poetry
that the world has known.” In this the
Lesbian poets (it is said) were not unlike
the Provencal troubadours, who made a
literature of love. The customs of the Aeo-
lians permitted more social and domestic
freedom than was common in Greece.
Aeolian women were not confined to the
harem like Ionians, or subjected to the
rigorous discipline of the Spartans. While
mixing freely with male society, they were
highly educated, and accustomed to express
their sentiments to an extent unknown else-
where in history—until the present time.
The Lesbian ladies applied themselves
successfu[-]ly to literature; they formed clubs
for the cultivation of poetry and music;
they studied the art of beauty, and sought
to refine metrical forms and diction. Nor
did they confine themselves to the scientific
side of Art. Unrestrained by public opin-
on and passionate for the beautiful, they
cultivated to the extreme their senses and
emotions. All the luxuries and elegancies
of life the rich valleys of Lesbos could afford
were at their disposal; exquisite tropical
gardens, olive groves and fountains, pine
shadowed caves by the sea where bathing
was a delight, fruits such as only the South-
ern sea and sea wind ever mature, mar-
ble cliffs starred with the flowers of spring,
aromatic with the perfume of myrtle and
rosemary; nightingales that sing the sum-
mer nights through, temples dim with
dusky gold and bright with ivory, statues and
frescoes of heroic forms; these are the sur-
roundings, the settings, the environments
of the poets who lived and sung and who
 still live in the memory of the world.
	One writer says the voluptuousness of
Aeolian poetry, is not like that of Persian
or Arabian art. It is Greek in its self-re-
straint, proportion, tact; and there is noth-
ing burdensome in its sweetness. All is so
rhythmically and sublimely ordered in the
poems of Sappho, that supreme art lends
solemnity and grandeur to the expression
of unmitigated passion.
	Sappho seems to have been the centre of a
society in Mytilene where she dwelt, a
kind of aesthetic club, devoted to the Muses.
Maidens gathered around her from even
comparatively distant places, attracted by
her fame, to study under her all that related
to poetry and music; similar to the later age
when students resorted to the philosophers
at Athens. The names of fourteen of her
girl-friends have been preserved, the most
celebrated was Erinna, a poetess of Lesbos;
a poetess of whom an Epigram in the Greek
Anthology says. 
‘These are Erinna songs, how sweet though slight,
	For she was but a girl of nineteen years.—
Yet stronger far than what most men can write,
Had death delayed, whose fame had equalled hers.’

[Column 2]
	Of another Damophylia, of Pamphylia, it
is said she lived in close friendship with
Sappho and wrote poems after her model.
Suidas says Sappho’s companions and
friends were three, Attis Lesippa and
Megara, and her pupils he also names.
Another Greek writer says “What Alcib-
iades aud Charmides and Phaedrus were
to Socrates, Gyrinna and Atthis and Anoc-
toria were to Sappho—she herself praised
Dica for her skill in weaving coronals, and
a daughter of Polyanax is addressed as one
of her maidens; nor can we tell who were
those other hundred maidens. Ovid
makes her say “She blamelessly loved
before Phaon satisfied her heart.” Plato in his
Phaedrus calls Sappho—“Beautiful for the
sweetness of her songs.” Maximns Tyrius
says she was small and dark, une petite bru-
nette. Swinburne says,
	“The small dark body’s Lesbian loveliness,
		That held the fire eternal.”
Aleacus to Sappho in his song says:
“Violet-weaving pure, soft-smiling Sappho.”
	Domachris in the Greek Anthology, in
an Epigram on a statue of Sappho, speaks
of her bright eyes showing her wisdom,
and compares the beauty of her face to that
of Aphrodite. To another writer in the
Greek Anthology she is the pride of “The
lovely-haired Lesbians.” Anacreon as
well as Philoxenus, calls her “Sweet-voic-
ed.” Little is known of her personal ap-
pearance, but the whole testimony of ancient
writers describe the charm of her poetry
with unbounded praise.
	Such was her unique renown, that she
was called “The Poetess,” as Horace was
“The Poet.” Plato numbers her among
the Wise. Phutarch speaks of the grace of
her poems, acting on her listeners like an
enchantment, and says that when he read
them “he set aside the drinking cup in very
shame.”
	A knowledge of her writings was held to
be essential of culture among the Greeks,
and she is called in the Greek Anthology,
the Tenth Muse, child of Aphrodite and
Eros, nursling of the Graces, and Persua-
sion, pride of Hellas, companion of Apollo,
and prophesy her immortality. Many
Greek poets have written of her in the most
passionate style. Plato says
	“Some thoughtlessly proclaim the Muses Nine,
	A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, Maid divine.”
	All the Eipgrammatists uuite in the
same strain calling her “The flower of the
Graces.”
	Aristotle remarks that her image was en-
graved on the coins of Mitylene “though
she was only a woman.” J. C. Wolf de-
scribes six extant coins, which presumably
were struck at different times in honor of
her; however no coins bearing the name or
effigy of Sappho have been discovered
which were current before the Christian era,
so that no conclusion drawn can be of his-
torical importance. The best representa-
tion of what she and her surroundings
might have been, is the Sappho of Alma
Tadema exhibited at the Royal Academy
1881 and etched by C. O. Murray and pho-
tographed by the Berlin Photographic
company; from this J. C. Webb has en-
graved a medallion.
	A large statue of Sappho was splendedly
made by Silanion aud stolen by Verres. ac-
cording to Cicero, from the pyrtaneum at
Syracuse. Christodomus in the Anthology
describes a statue of her as adorning the
gymnasium of the Byzantium, in the fifth

[Column 3]
century. (Pliny says that Leon an artist,
painted a picture of her in the garb of a
lutist.)
	Numerous illustrations of her still exist
upon Greek vases, but they are all said to be
in a debased style, and one would feel more
content not to have seen them. (J. Ad-
dington Symonds says “The world has
suffered no greater literary loss, than the
loss of Sappho’s poems, so perfect are the
smallest fragments preserved, that we
muse in a sad rapture of astonishment to
think what the complete poems must have
been. Of all the poets of the world, of all
the illustrious artists of all literatures,
Sappho is the one whose every word has
a peculiar and unmistakable perfume, a
seal of absolute perfection and illimitable
grace. In her art she was unerring.”)
	The age in which Sappho flourished is
mainly determined by concurrent events.
Athenaeus makes her contemporary with
Alyattes, the father of Crœsus who reigned
over Lydia from 628, to 570, B. C. Euse-
bius mentions her in his Chronicle for the
year 604 B. C. How long she lived no
one of the writers of that day pretend to
determine; to herself in Fragment 75 of her
poems she applies the epithet old, which
may be merely relative. If what Herodo-
tus says is true, Sappho may have reached
the age of fifty years. An inscription on
the famous Parian marbles, a system of
chronology compiled in the third century
B. C., says “When Aristocles reigned over
the Athenians, Sappho fled from Mitylene
and sailed to Sicily, but the exact date is
illegible, though it may be placed between
604 and 592 B. C.
	Balancing all the evidence, Fasti Hellen-
icci takes the years 611 and 592 to be the
years in which Sappho flourished.
	Of the family life of Sappho nothing re-
liable is known. Lindas says “Sappho
married one Cercolas, a man of great wealth,
who sailed from Andros,” and he adds “She
had a daughter by him named Cleis.” In
Fr. 85, Sappho mentions this daughter
Cleis by name, and Ovid in his Epistle also
refers to her; but the existence of such a
husband has been warmly disputed
	“The story of Sappho’s love for Phaon,
and her leap from the Leucadian rock, in
consequence of his disdaining her, though
it has been so long implicitly believed, does
not seem to rest on any historical basis.
Indeed more than one epigrammatist in the
Greek Anthology expressly states that she
was buried in an Aeolic grave.”
	For all the myths or legends that cluster
about Phaon, he may after all have been a
real personage. The traditions which have
been handed down tell of his miraculous
lovelineess, and insensibility to love. He
is said to have been a boatman of Mitylene
who was endowed by Aphrodite with youth
and extrodinary beauty as a reward for be-
ing ferried her for nothing. Servius, who
wrote about 400 A. D., says she gave him
an alabaster box of ointment, the effect of
which was to make all women fall in love
with him, and that one of these (he does
not mention her name) threw herself in des-
pair from the cliff of Leucas. Servius
further states on the authority of Menander,
that the temple was founded by Phaon of
Lesbos. Phaon’s beauty and power of
fascination passed into a proverb. Pliny
however says, he became the object of Sap-
pho’s love because he had found the plant
eryngo, probably our sea-holly, and that it
acted like a love-charm.


[Column 1]
	The tale runs that the unfortunate love
of Sappho caused Phaon to flee to Sicily,
whither she followed him. The inscriptions 
on the Parian marbles also mention a cer-
tain year in which Sappho sailed from
Mitylene and fled to Sicily. The Chroni-
cle however, says nothing about Phaon,
nor is any reason given for her exile; some
have imagined that she was obliged to leave
her country on political grounds, but there
is no trace in her writings, nor does any re-
port indicate that she ever interested herself
in politics.
	Strabo in his Geography says, there is a
white rock which stretches out from Leucas
to the sea towards Cephallenia, that takes
its name from its whiteness. The rock of
Leucas has upon it a temple of Apollo and
the leap from it was believed to stop love.
From this it is said that Sappho first in pur-
suit of the haughty Phaon, urged on by
maddening desire, threw herself from its
far-seen rocks, imploring the (Apollo) lord
and king. The story of the Leucadian leap
was never much doubted until modern
times. It is strange that none of the many
authors who relate the legend, say what
was the result of the leap, whether it was
fatal to her life or to her love.
	The story as given by Addison was, Sap-
pho the Lesbian in love with Phaon, arrived
at the temple of Apollo habited like a bride,
in garments as white as snow. She wore a
garland of myrtle on her head, and carried
in her hand a little musical instrument of
her own invention. After having sung a
hymn to Apollo, she hung up her garland
on one side of his altar, and her harp on the
other. She then tucked up her vestments
like a Spartan virgin, and amidst thousands
of spectators, who were anxious for her
safety and offered up vows for her deliver-
ance, marched directly foward to the ut-
most summit of the promontory, where af-
ter having repeated a stanza of her own
verses, which they could not hear, she
threw herself off the rock with such an in-
trepedity as was never before observed in
any who had attempted the dangerous leap.
Many who were present related that they
saw her fall into the sea, from which she
never rose again; though there were others
who affirmed that she never came to the
bottom of her leap, but was changed into a
swan as she fell, and that they saw her hov-
ering in the air under that shape. But
whether or no the whiteness and fluttering
of her garments, might not deceive those
who looked upon her, or whether she might
not be metamorphosed into that musical
and melancholy bird, is still a doubt among
the Lesbians. Alcaeus the famous lyric
poet, who had for some time been passion-
ately in love with Sappho, arrived at the
promontory of Leucate that very evening
in order to take the leap on her account
but learning that Sappho had been there
before him and that her body could nowhere
be found, he very generously lamented her
fall, and is said to have written his one
hundred and twenty-fifth ode upon that oc-
casion. Sappho, if we can believe the an-
cient writers, loved, and loved more than
once, and loved to the point of desperate
sorrow, though it did not come to the mad
and fatal leap from Leucate as the unnec-
essary legend pretends. Sir Edwin Arnold
says “Nevertheless there are worse steeps
than Leucate down which the heart may
fall, and colder seas of despair than the
Adriatic than which to engulf it.”
	Although so little of Sappho remains, her

[Column 2]
complete works must have been consider-
able. She seems to have been the acknow-
ledged writer of wedding songs, if we may
believe Himericus and there is little doubt that
Catullus Epithalamia was copied if not
actually translated from hers. She was on
all sides regarded as the greatest erotic poet
of antiquity. Nine books of her lyric Odes
are said to have existed, but it is uncertain
how they were composed. Some of the
Odes of Horace have been regarded as direct
translations from Sappho.
	Athenaeus says that Chamaeleon, one of
the disciples of Aristotle, wrote a book
about Sappho, and Strabo says Callias of
Lesbos interpreted her songs. Alexander
the Sophist used to lecture about her, and
Dracon of Stratonica, wrote a commentary
on her metres. She wrote in the Aeolic dia-
lect; the absence of rough breathing, the
throwing back of the accent, and the use of
many forms and words unknown to ordinary
Attic Greek, all testify to this. Her poems
were undoubtedly written for recitation
with the aid of music, they were in fact,
Prof. Mahaffy says “The earliest specimens
of what is called in modern days “The Song
or Ballad,” in which the repetition of short
rhythms produces a certain pleasant mono-
tony easy to remember and easy to under-
stand.”
	Plato’s definition of melic poetry like
Sappho’s, is that it is “Compounded out of
three things, speech, music and rhythm.”
	Aristoxenus, as quoted by Plutarch, as-
cribes to her the invention of the Mixo-
Lydian mode, of which the plain meaning is
asserted to be that she sang softly and
plaintively, and at a higher pitch than any
of her predecessors. All Greek modes can
be exhibited by means of our diatonic scale
—by the white keys for example, omitting
the black ones, of our modern piano-fortes;
the various modes having been merely di-
visions of the diatonic scale into certain
regions, each consisting of one octave. The
Ecclesiastical Mixo- Lydian mode supposed
to be similar to the Greek mode of the
same name, is the scale of our G. major
without the (F. #.) or leading note. It was
called in the early Christian Church the an-
gelic mode, and is now known as the
sveenth of the Ecclesiastical or Gregorian
modes. Sappho is said by Greek historians
to have been the first of the Greek poets to
use the Pektis, a foreign instrument, a kind
of harp which was played by the fingers
without a plectum. Sappho also mentions
by name kinds of many-stringed Lesbian
lyres, which cannot now be identified.
	It is said to be impossible to translate the
songs of Sappho and preserve the poetry,
and most of the fragments are given prose
translations which give a truer meaning.
	I have copied one or two as specimens—
here is one the 51st fragment.
	“And there the bowl of ambrosia was
mixed, and Hermes took the ladle to pour
out for the gods; and then they all held
goblets, and made libation, and wished the
bridegroom all good luck.”
	“Round about, the cool water thrills
through the apple branches, and sleep flows
down upon us in the rustling leaves.”
	“Come goddess of Cyprus, and in golden
cups serve nectar delicately mixed with
delights.”
	“O muse of the golden throne, raise that
strain which the Elder of Teos, from the
goodly land of fair women, used to sing
so sweetly.”
	“Raise high roof-beams! carpenters! Like

[Colmun 2]
Ares comes the bridegroom, taller than a
tall man! Hymenaeus! Towering as the
Lesbian singer towers among men of other
lands.”
	Another prose translation.
	“As the sweet apple blushes on the end of
the bough, the very end of the bough,
which the gatherers overlooked, nay over-
looked not, but could not reach.”
	Tran lation by Palgrave.
				O fair—O sweet!
	As the sweet apple blooms high on the bough
	High as the highest forgot of the gatherers 
					So thou!
	Yet not so! Nor forgot of the gatherers
	High o’er their reach in the golden air
				O sweet! O fair!
	Of her child Sappho wrote beautifully in
the Aeolian, literally translated.
	I have a fair daughter with a form like a
golden flowers, Cleis the beloved! Above
whom I prize, nor all Lydia, nor lovely
Lesbos. 
	Translated by Merivale.
		“I have a child, a lovely one
		In beauty like the golden sun,
		Or like sweet flowers of earliest bloom
		And Cleis is her name, for whom,
		I, Lydia’s treasures, were they mine
		Would glad resign.”
	It is said by the best men of letters and
Greek scholars, that it is impossible to
judge Sappho by any translations of her
fragments either prose or poetry; and as it
is utterly useless to try and picture her in-
comparable beauty of face, grace of form
and voice of sweetness, the whole idea of
Sappho as I have it in my mind is in its-
self a poem not capable of being translated.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ONLY $40.50.
TO LETHBRIDGE, CANADA AND RETURN.
	May 18th the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge,
Canada, the nearest railroad point to
Cardston.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

CARDSTON, ALBERTA, CANADA.
SPECIAL EXCURSION.
	May 18th, the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge,
Canada, the nearest railroad point to
Cardston, Canada. Fare for the round
trip only $40.50.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1896. No. 24


CONTENTS:
	Visit to Washington—Sarah A. Boyer. Ladies'
Semi-monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. Birthday
Party—Elvira A. Harrison. W. S. A. Meeting—
Cassie C. Newman. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.
Miss Barton's Relief Work—Clara Barton. Min-
erva W. Snow. Mrs. Brown's Letter. The Book
Of Mormon—M. E. K. In Memoriam. Obitu-
aries. Mrs. Chapman-Catt. Notes And News.
W. S. A.—Nettie Hunt. Conference Of The N.
A. W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Twenty Four Years. Sixty
Of Wedded Lifes. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Two Little Herd Boys—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Reflections—Libbie. A
Desert Blooms Again—Samantha T. Brimhall.


TWO LITTLE HERD BOYS.

Billy, I’m thinking of when we were boys,  
	Days that seemed made all of trouble and care,
Come back in memory laden with joys 
	Glowing with pictures all happy and fair,
Up the long canyon with whip and with pail
	Gathering flowers we followed the cows,
Gathering water cress close by the trail
	And hunting the birds nests far tip in the
	boughs.
And while our herd wandered over the hill,
	Idly we gazed on the valley far down,
While echoed around us the whistles so shrill
	Of U. P. and Denver in race for the town,
Long before dinner we emptied our pails,
	Thoughtless of hours ere the sun would go
	down,
Then homeward we hurried with songs and with
	tales,
	Two little herd boys, barefooted and brown.
Over the dry lake that shone in the sun,
	Down by the Jordan, the rushes and slough;
Wild fowl flew up out of reach of our gun,
	And fishes were plenty though we caught but 
	few.
Still we were happy, for glowing and bright
	The sun as it sank,threw its rays from the west,
And the windows of home answered back all
	alight,
And beckoned us there to a welcome and rest.
The coasting and skating! We boys were not
	cold
Though keen blew the wind and the icicles 
	grew,
’Till back by the fireside and stories are told—
	Then,Billy,’twas cold,with the chores yet to do.
O, heavy in keeping, the burden and strife!
	The riches and honors, they chain us around,
They flush and then fade. The best hours of
	life
	Were for two little playmates, barefooted and
	brown.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 30, 1896.


REFLECTIONS

OUR labors are finished our prayers have been
	answered
	And homeward all joyous we go 
It will cheer the fond hearts of our aged parents
	And little we’ll heed the fall of the snow.
But our flowers are tender from warm beds they’re
	taken,
The cold, chilly winds they never have known;


Beneath sultry skies they were planted and
	nurtured, 
	In their infancy there with others they’ve grown.
We have labored so hard to prune well the vine-
	yard
And carefully remove every rock from the way,
For the Master has said if thy labor is faithful,
	Thy reward will be sure at the close of the day.
So our hearts were e’er happy, our burdens were
	lightened
	The labor was finished we were sent forth to do,
We knew to our homes we again would be wel-
	comed, 
By our kindred and friends who have been to
	us true,
So with hearts bounding over with joy and with
	gladness
	God speeded our journey by sea and by land,
When nearly approaching the city of promise,
	A cold, chilly cloud o’er shadowed our band.
Our fears were aroused on account of our flowers,
	So tender,so priceless,rare jewels from heaven,
	We nestled them closer,but felt a foreboding,
Of ill-fate, as towards us the cloud was fast.
	driven.
Kind friends full of joy ne’er thinking of evil,
	Warmly greeted us ’ere we arrived at our home;
But could we forget the cloud that hung o’er us,
	The sorrow that, seemed to await us at home?
O no ’twas the cold chilly winds of December,
	That stole from our garland the fairest of all;
And our hearts were bowed down when we
	thought to be happy,
	And humbly we bowed to the Maker of all.
For the Gardener was ready to gather the flowers
	He had given us to cherish and keep for awhile
And our hearts were sore grieved when he firmly
	demanded
We yield up our darling, our beautiful child.
And thus our return to our home was made
	gloomy
	By the cold hand of death that welcomed us all
And Fate had decreed the reception long talked
	of
Should be to us only a burial pall. 
	LIBBIE	
January, 1896.


[Column 1]
	
VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

HAVING been asked to give a short
sketch of my trip to Washington, I do so
with pleasure, hoping the same will not be
uninteresting, though I do not do this be-
cause of my fitness by nature to tell it with
precision and amplitude as one versed in
descriptive lore, but will give a few of my
observations and conditions as we met them.
The object in going as you are all well
aware was to attend a Woman’s Suffrage
Convention, and while it might seem a use-
less expenditure of time and money con-
sidering that Utah is now a State with
universal political equality guaranteed to
ajilier citizens without regard to race, color
of sex; yet it was deemed expedient and al-
so a matter of justice due the National W.
S. A. to meet with them as on former pc-
casions, not now as formerly to solicit their
influence in our behalf, but that they were

[Column 2]
in need of our influence, together with
forty-three other States and Territories who
went there for the purpose of devising
methods best adapted to further the cause
and to petition Congress to grant them a
six teenth amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. It was a time when
never were the Delegates interviewed with
greater zest than on the present occasion,
but mind you, (we attribute these to our)
charged condition in state affairs and not to
ourselves. Many of the Presidents of
State associations said to me, they were
paid for coming to the convention if only
they could report to their State association,
that Utah women were independent and
free as the third star on the flag of one
Union indicates. They acknowledge they
are possessed with the prejudices of the past
to such an extent that they feared we were
not socially free. I told them it would
have been utterly impossible to have ob-
tained political freedom unless our social
influence had asserted itself &c. During
one conversation I had with some of the
ladies about Utah's social condition a Mrs.
Haskell walked across the parlor to where
we were and asked pardon for the intrusion,
but said she I have been listening to your
conversation and desire to introduce myself.
I am so interested in Utah that I desire to
hear more of her people[-] for while I reside,
in Montana, I know little of your true
status. It was she who was the nominee
for the Office of Attorney General of the
State of Montana but was defeated by Mr.
Haskell her competitor. This created quite
a ripple of laughter in the audience, as also
in the introduction of Miss Yates calling
her Mrs. Yates she objected to being called 
Mrs. and Miss Anthony remarked “no we
don’t covet the title” “Speak for yourself
Aunt Susan” quickly responded witty Miss
Yates which brought down the house.
   Another: reason why it was deemed wise
to send delegates at the present time was to
evidence our progressiveness in uniting our
voices with the rest of the States and.
ritories in the hope that ere long every
State in the Union will concede to woman
this right, and inasmuch as this body of
women had advertised their intention of de-
voting one session to Utah in welcoming
and congratulating her people in the gallant
fight they had made to engraft this principle
in her constitution it was deemed necessary
by the President, of the Utah W. S. A. 
and the State executive committee to
send Delegates expressing our ap-
preciation of their recognition and
to respond to Miss Shaw's address of
welcome; as you already know our Senator
Franks J. Cannon was the first speaker to
respond to Miss Shaw’s address of welcome
and was followed by Mrs. C. E. Allen, my-
self and Mrs. F. S. Richards who read a
Paper which was replete with valuable in-
formation relative to our present position
and what had led to it from the Edmunds-
Tucker law down to the present time.
The Washington papers made favorable
comment of our speeches. It was remarked
by Miss Shaw that there never was a time
when we re[-]eived so little opposition as at the


[Column 1]
present. She referred to their San Fran
cisco trip and Salt Lake last summer and
said that the Congress of San Francisco was
the most marvelous gathering she ever saw.
The newspapers said the men were all
hypnotized or they would not stand on the
side walks two hours to get into a Church.
Every subject considered from the training
of children to the decoration of the home, it
all turned on the ballot for woman and
Susan B. Anthony was the Belle of the
Ball. The Superintendent of the San
Francisco schools closed them that Miss
Anthony might address nine hundred
teachers.
	Senator Peffer of Kansas before whom
twenty-two of the Convention presented
their petitions, said there never was a time 
when Congress showed so little prejudice to
our cause as now. Reform in Washington
seems to be the watchword, I believe that
seven out of every ten realize that the ballot
is the one thing necessary to aid in these
reforms.
	The sin spot of Washington, called the
Division or Washington plague spot was be-
ing raided. A prominent lady, a Mrs.
Barrett, at a big mass meeting held there to
take into consideration the best steps to
arrest the sin stained spot was asked by
several well known Lawyers and business
men of the city, would you advocate
raiding the Division and she invaribly
answered “no, because I would not close
even that door to these unfortunate women
until another door was opened for them.’’
	"There stood," said she, ‘‘once in the streets
of Florence, a block of marble, it was an un-
sightly mass of stone which occupied the
public space and was in everybody’s way.
It was decided to remove it and one day a
force of men came to break it to pieces and
cast away the fragments. Before they be- 
gan their work, Michael Angelo chanced to
pass and seeing the block asked that it
might be given him, he said there was an
Angel in that mass of stone and he took it
home. The Sculptor set the Angel free
and today instead of being a nuisance to the
citizens of that beautiful city it guards the
entrance to a great Church and is admired
by the world. So there is an Angel in
every fallen woman and it needs but a
Michael Angelo to bring it forth so that it
may shine in the light of God’s glory to be
numbered among the sinners who have re-
pented, whose value is so many more times
greater than the wise men.” This is a beau-
tiful metaphor; we could write volumes of
the many and varied kinds of mission work
which seems to actuate all classes and de-
nominations in Washington. The descrip-
tions of the receptions and the little inci-
dent of presenting our Senators with a
bouquet of flowers the morning they were
sworn in can be better portrayed by Mrs.
Richards orally than I can do it in writing.
However I trust the feeling that exists
between the national association and the
women of Utah will ever remain, and that
the hand of friendship may never be sev-
ered but that our representation in Wash-
ington may be yearly renewed which will
better evidence our interest in the great
cause of our sex and in humanity than all
the writing we could do. I do know that
our presence and conversation allayed much
prejudice against our people. Shakespeare 
says, “There is a destiny which shapes our
ends, rough, hew them as we may.” The
destiny of Utah is onward and upward. It
is right, conquering might, and may the

[Column 2]
men of Utah never have cause to regret the
part they played which has resulted in
woman's political freedom by an indiscre-
tion of ours, is the honest wish of your co-
laborer in the battle for the right.
SARAH A. BOYER.
Springville, Utah.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Meeting of Ladies, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 22nd, 1896. Counselor E. J. Steven-
son presided. Singing, “Lord we come be-
fore thee now.” Prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon. Continued by singing,
“Welcome best of all good meetings.”
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she thought
it so beautiful that our meeting came this
year on Washington’s Birthday. But did
he do all these glorious things without
seeking unto God for light and truth.
Read the life of Washington, it is so full of
faith. Often he went into the woods to
pray. Sisters improve the time and say a
few words and then you will feel to speak
of the goodness of God. Sister Mary Ann
Hyde said she came to be built up and
strengthened. I am thankful to be one
among you. The subject of the youth of
Zion had troubled her for many years.
They are surrounded by temptation. We
must pray earnestly all the time that Satan
does not overcome us. The day has ar-
rived that the dreadful things are coming to
pass, which the prophet told us of. Are
we preparing for the coming of the Son of
Man? We should encourage our children
to have faith. I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister Sperry said her heart beat so hard,
that she felt to bear her testimony. I pray
that we may be faithful. Also prayed that
the aged would be blessed, for they had
borne the heat and the burden of the day.
	Sister Rollinson bore an excellent
testimony. A sister in the congregation
bore her testimony, said she had found true
happiness since she understood the gospel.
	Sisters sang, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Sister M. L. Morris said she felt glad that
“This people is my people, your God my
God.” Let us help those who are cast
down. The Lord loves the pure in heart.
Let us build each other up. I know that
my Redeemer liveth.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony. Spoke
of a little girl that she had adopted, and
how much faith she had.
	Sister J. Samson bore testimony also
that the Spirit of God was here in rich
abundance.
A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony, giving honor and glory to the Lord
who had strengthened her in her body,
also stating that the healing power was in
the Church, and the blessing of these
meetings.
	Counselor E. Webb, felt it a pleasure to
meet here in peace and quiet, while trouble
and strife is increasing all over the earth.
Spoke a few words relative to the franchise,
urged the sisters to be wise in its use.
Asked the sisters not to judge each other,
but be peace-makers, and closed by bearing
a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister Barnes bore testimony to the com-
fort and blessings she received in these
meetings.
	Sister L. D. Alder bore a faithful testi-
mony,

[Column 2]
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball: The Lord
had said “If ye are not one ye are not
mine,” said she rejoiced in every one who
loved the Lord. Spoke of a man who
fought with Washington that knew the Lord
had been with him, by hearing him praying
in the woods. Now in this day when
prayer is despised by many how beautiful
this practice of Washington seems. De-
plored the condition of our young people
who were recreant and indifferent. Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Barnes’ daughter bore testimony to
the gift of the Spirit while the sisters were
singing, “Redeemer of Israel ”
	Another sister bore testimony to the gift
of healing, her little daughter being healed
so wonderfully. Spoke of a dream she had
and felt to press on and serve the Lord.
	Sister Stevenson made closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction Sister Elmina S. Taylor.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTY

	A Birthday party was held in St. John’s,
Idaho, March 23, 1896, in honor of
Eliza P. Williams.
	The members of the Relief Society of
St. John’s gave their President Eliza P.
Williams a surprise at about twelve o’olock.
The members gathered together at the
meeting house with their baskets filled
with good things which they transfered to
the table and when all was ready, Sister
Williams was invited to the meeting house.
When the door was opened and our Presi-
dent saw so many sisters and the tables
spread, she wept for joy. She was pre-
sented with two chairs and some other
small gifts.
	Singing and short speeches followed and
an enjoyable time was held.
ELVIRA A. HARRISON, Sec.
St. John’s, Oneida Co., Idaho.


W. S. A. MEETING.
	MINUTES of Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. held
in fourteenth. Ward hall, March 17th, 1896.
Sang “O, Come, Come Away.”  Prayer
by Elizabeth Price. Sang: “The Reason
Why.” Minutes of last meeting read and
approved. Report of select committee.
Emily S. Richards had consulted with State
committee and several lawyers and found
that they disagree on the subject of Right
of Wife’s Dower, she had been treated
courteously and kindly by all and read a
written statement given by Judge Suther-
land. Her report was accepted and a vote
of thanks given Mrs. Richards for the in-
formation given: and committee released.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith read from Roberts
Rules of Order. Elizabeth J. McFarlane
read a very instructive chapter on Rights
and Privileges and immunities of citizen-
ship. Mrs. J. R. Midgley said that the
study of Parliamentary Rules was very
essential if we were going to attend, and in
all probability conduct public meetings our-
selves in the future. Mrs. Holden resigned
as chairman of Executive Committee and
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith was appointed to fill
the vacancy, and Maria Holt appointed to
fill the vacant place on the committee.
Meeting adjourned for one month. Bene-
diction by Hannah Oswald.,
	CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A DESERT BLOOMS AGAIN.

	SOMANTHA T. BRIMHALL.
BRIGHT is the morn and daylight gleams and
	sheds its rays afar,
ln silent reverence nature breathes the calm, soft
	morning air; 
Clouds resting on the Eastern hills are lit by early
	dawn, 
The bright sun through their curtain steals, again
	his light is born
To smile upon the vale beneath clothed by
	verdure’s hand
As it glitters there to form a wreath to crown a
	wasted land.
I leave the vale while all is still for silence reigns
	around
And wander to a neighboring hill, where food for
	thoughts abound,
For solitude has pleasant charms to lead the
	mind to good,
While I am cheered by nature’s forms that ages
	have withstood.
Serrated outlines rise and fall o’er columns stately
	grand
As an uneven lofty wall looking o’er all the land;
The mountains rising in the North to head the
	level plain
Roll off in grandeur in the South to meet the
	surging main;
Rich valleys gleaming down among the rolling
	foot-hills there,
Now smile with fields of waving corn and gardens
	rich and rare.
The foot-prints of an ancient race who lived upon
	this land
Are seen upon the mountains face, a sight pro-
	foundly grand;
Their ruins here are strewn around, we see them
	everywhere,
Upon the barren wasted ground which once was
	tilled with care.
I look toward the rising sun and on the moun-
	tains’ height
I see the works their hands have done, for there
	a wondrous sight!
A fortress stands, of olden time, upon the highest
	peak;
It seems to be above the line that man would
	ever seek.
And yet it stands a witness bold, its walls of solid
	stone, 
The mortal hands that made its hold forever now
	are gone.
This land has here a desert lain for many a dreary
	year
The ruined ‘Montezumas’ seen, for ages have
	been here;
No puny race could ever build those strong old
	walls so grand,
That now this mystery deep enfold “’twas once a
	favored land.”
While wrapt in muse and wonder here and think-
	ing of the dead;
There seems a low voice in my ear, "you in the
	footsteps tread”
Of ancient Lehi’s fallen race, once a chosen band
Whose record, Mormon here did trace with a
	prophetic hand.
How changed the scene, I turn again and gaze on
	vale below;
Once more the barren waste is green and pure
	bright streamlets-flow.
While leafy trees of fruit and shade hide dwell-
	ings from the view 
And cast their shadows o’er the - glade, where
	flowers bloom anew.
Or interspersed by loftier spires gleaming so
	proud above

[Column 2]
Form arches there with twining vines, that in the
	breezes move.
Once more the feathered tribe is seen among the
	beds of flowers,
Once more their chambers high are green, their
	nests hang in the bowers:
The ancient trees whose trunks have lain per-
	haps since other ages,
Are sought by honey bees again and filled with
	choicest "dulces.”
Once more the harvest lap is filled with sheaves
	of ripened grain
And delicious fruits to redness turned by the
	summer sun and rain:
Once more the busy echo flies from the sound of
	workmens’ tools
And handsome modern structures rise for
	pleasant homes and schools.
Colonia, Juarez, Mexico.


U. W. P. C.

	By special invitation the Utah Woman’s
Press Club held its April meeting at the
residence of Mrs. Syntitha Dickinson.
The meeting being called to order by the
president.
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. W. Hyde.
Roll call was answered by original senti-
ments. Minutes read and with corrections
were approved.
	Miss. S. L. Monroe read a most in-
structive paper on Ceramics. Giving the
origin history and present status of pottery.
She said "All other arts fade with time,
but the flowers on a Dresden vase will last
for ages, children grow up among beautiful
china with an innate love of beauty and re-
finement; the table ceases to be merely a
feeding place when set with beautiful
china.”
	This was followed by the recitation of the
“Drunkards Dream,” by Miss Edith
Rossiter. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox then read an
original poem entitled “Myrtle And
Violets.”
	Dr. Elliot was then introduced to the
club as the guest of the evening and enter-
tained the club with interesting facts in the
life and labors of Miss Barton. Gave the
origin of the Red Cross and a sketch of
Miss Barton’s work; she possesses great
executive ability; does everything in a
systematic and economical manner.
	Mrs. M. E. Shipp then sang “Sweet
Spirit hear my prayer.” A letter to the
club from Mrs. Brown, at Washington,
was read by the Secretary—and the
exercises closed with prayer by Lizzie
S.Wilcox.
	Then followed dainty refreshments
served by the charming hostess and a bevy
of lovely girls. Social interchange of
thought and pleasant converse followed and
all went home feeling benefited socially and
intellectually. 
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec.


[Column 1]
MISS BARTON’S RELIEF WORK.

	CONSTANTINOPLE, April 25.—[Special
correspondence of the Associated Press.]
—Miss Clara Barton has drawn up the fol
lowing statement regarding the progress of
her relief work in Asia Minor. It should
be understood that one object of our ex-
peditions in the field at this time, is the
helping of the people to cultivate their land
and get crops off that they may subsist in

[Column 2]
the near future and through the winter, or
their condition of hunger and threatened
starvation will be as great or greater than
now. To this end our two expeditions
have been for several weeks purchasing in
the cities, the farming implements in gen-
eral use by the people and carrying them to
the villages and farm lands of the country 
where all implements have been either
destroyed or taken.
	It is understood that the government has
expressed a desire to take part in providing
seed for planting. Indian corn is one
article distributed for food by our people and
it can be planted if no other seed is pro-
vided. The two expeditions are en route
for Harpoot by different ways, providing
for the farmers as the go. Money for this
purpose is being freely sent from here.
	The other object and perhaps the one
appealing more directly to the sympathies
of the people is the handling of the medical
relief of the two fever stricken cities of
Zeltoun and Marash, where eight to ten
thousand people are suffering the agonies of
four distinct epidemics raging among them
at once—typhoid and typhus fevers,
dysentery and small-pox. The first three
would naturally follow as the conditions of
starvation and hardships and the putrid
atmosphere of the neglected field of siege
and battle with festering wounds and long
unburied dead. The small-pox must have
been brought from some infected district.
	For the treatment of these thousands
there are no physicians left, if they escaped
one fate they fell by another. A few holy
missionary men and women, with names to
henceforth form a part of the history of this
miserable field, and one worn doctor, divid-
ing himself between three cities seven miles
apart, like poor Cassabianca, stood at their
posts.
	On this state of things we look for the
medical relief of these ill-fated cities.
Physicians must be found who are willing
to risk the double danger of contagious
disease and a country by no means in a
settled condition.
	Through Mr. George Post of Beyrout a
few were drawn from the medical college in
that city, placed under charge of Dr. Ira
Harris and sent on by sea and land with
medical supplies to begin a hospital in
Marash.
	More physicians are on the way and
others are being procured to report to Dr.
Harris, who has taken a part of his men to
Zeltoun, forty miles distant where 3,000
are reported ill. The result of his investi-
gations can only reach us later. In all
Asia Minor there is no other organized body
of medical relief. We have obligated our-
selves for its entire expenses, medical sup-
plies, transportation, hospital arrangements,
salaries and traveling expenses of physicians
and all necessary cost of communication
between the various points.
	Our first order for physicians was for six
in number with two druggists and supplies.
The number of physicians should at least
be doubled and every effort is being made
to that end.
	The reported number of deaths has been
for some time from 75 to 100 daily. No
one so well as ourselves can recognize the
responsibility. But the conditions are here
and we are here alone to meet them. We
can only tell them to the world outside and
stand firm in our work from day to day
trusting by the mercy of heaven to attain
some measure of success.
	(Signed)			CLARA BARTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON Camilla).  Editorial Contributor, 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build- 
tng, Main Street, oppposite Z.C.M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY, 15, 1896


TWENTY FOUR YEARS.

	THE present number of the paper com-
pletes the 24th volume of the EXPONENT;
ever since it first made its appearance on
the first day of June 1872, it has been un-
failing in its defence of truth and right.
On every question before the people and
especially those of the most vital importance 
to women and to humanity as a whole it
has been genuinely fearless.  Woman’s
organizations for charity,  philanthropy,
industry, education and literature have al-
ways been given honorable mention in its
columns. As a record of woman’s work in
all departments it has kept pace with the
times as reference to its columns testify.
Womens' missionary work at home and
abroad is given much space; minutes of
meetings and Conferences almost a complete
record. Biographical sketches of the most
eminent women of our time in the Church,
and in other great movements are to be
found in its pages, and many interesting
essays and poems of more or less merit of
home production.
	It has been the aim of the EXPONENT
from the beginning to foster and encourage
home talent, and it has not failed in this
respect, for some of the best writers Utah
can boast begun their literary work in this
homely little paper, and its good work in
this respect still continues. It was the first
woman’s paper, except one, established west
of the Mississippi, and it has never swerved
in its loyalty on the question of equal suf-
frage.
	The EXPONENT has found its way into
many high places as well as lowly ones, and
has visited nearly all the countries of the
world.  All the womens’ papers published
almost without exception exchange with it,
and many consider it one of their best ex-
changes because of its entire freedom from
anything like sensationalism.
	If the women of Utah and of the Rocky
Mountain region could realize what the
EXPONENT has done, and the influence it
carries abroad, they would certainly take
more pains and make a greater effort to sus-
tain it, and not let it lack for patronage. It
is really a positive necessity for a great or-
ganization like the Relief Society to have
such an organ, and the silk industry needs
it in order to help it forward, and especially
now that women have suffrage, do they
need such an opportunity for expression and
advancement as can only be obtained by
means of a woman's papers. One dollar a
year is very little to help sustain


a paper for your own benefit, or if you
do not need it there are others who do and
the larger the subscription the more can be
done in free distribution, for missionary
work, which is always a consideration. Do
not grow weary in well-doing but help sus-
tain that which will be a history of the wo-
men of this age and period for such cer-
tainly is the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SIXTY YEARS OF WEDDED LIFE.

JOSEPH AND M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	THE anniversary sixty years after of the
marriage of two noted pioneers of Utah,
Brother and Sister Horne, was celebrated in
this city May 9, 1896. The event was
unique in itself, as it is an exceptional thing
for two people to live together for three-
score years.
	Brother and Sister Horne came to the
valley in 1847, only two months subsequent
to the arrival of the pioneers, and it was
this company of stalwarts who came at that
time who did the early formative work in
this City. They built the fort, they killed
the crickets, they built bridges, and did all
sorts of pioneering, enduring hardships un-
told, laying the foundation for those who
came afterward. All honor we say to these
valiant veterans and to those associated with
them.
	The wedding anniversary day was kept
in a fitting manner, their children and
children’s children were around them, af-
fectionately greeting them and presenting
gifts and tokens of love, and themselves
made it a happy occasion. Some of them
came long distances, even from other States,
to pay their respects and meet with their
honored and beloved parents.
	A banquet was prepared for the evening
and as many intimate friends invited outside
the family as could be accommodated in a
private residence; certainly the banquet was
of the most delightful as well as the most
delicious character, and served by loving
hands, daughters and sons and grandchild-
ren of the family. The tables were decor-
ated with flowers, and cards with the name
of the guest, dates 1836-1896, were laid by
each plate. President Joseph F. Smith
pronounced the blessing which was a most
eloquent prayer as well as blessing. But
the feasting was not the only pleasant
feature of the evening. There were
speeches and songs and music at intervals,
and conversation which added to the delight
of all present.
	The evening exercises were conducted by
the eldest son present Bishop Joseph
Horne of Richfield, Sevier Co. who acquit-
ted himself admirably in every particular,
as master of ceremonies. President Angus
M. Cannon, in his characteristic way, gave
the toast to the aged couple, which virtually
expressed the sentiments of all present, who
had for so many years been associated in
the most pleasant relations with Brother and
Sister Horne. Dr. Elvira S. Barney read
REMINISCENCES composed by herself, that
seemed to embody every event of their long
and useful lives and commemorated as well as
many things of historical importance.
	One of the daughters Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey read a very telling poem by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, Mrs. E. B. Wells
read a short but comprehensive tribute to
Patriarch Horne, composed by Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball. Sweet songs were beauti-
fully rendered by George D. Pyper and Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cornelia H. Clayton and Mrs. Martha H.
Tingy, one of them being “The Old
Home” by two of the daughters; and instru-
mental music by others of the family en-
livened the program. A poem by Mrs. E.
B Wells (which she designated a love story)
was read by her during the evening’s enter-
tainment, but there was not nearly time for
all that had been prepared. President
Joseph E. Taylor offered the benediction at
the close before the departure of the guests.
Br. and Sister Horne looked as charming
and as handsome, and as happy as though
this had been their wedding day, instead of
the sixtieth anniversary, and no one who
saw them, could say old age is not beauti-
ful; with the beauty of the years that have
left their impress upon the faces and forms
of those who have lived pure and saintly
lives. What can be more beautiful than
such a living picture. There is nothing
more noble or more desirable than to be
able to look back upon such a life in the
evening of one’s days. And for this among
the many other things accomplished the
many friends of Br. and Sister Horne con-
gratulate them, and wish them continued
happiness and prosperity during the remain-
der of their sojourn here. The following
poem was written for the wedding anniver-
sary party but the evening was far too short
for the expression of good feeling and kind-
ly sentiment by all who were desirous of
showing their love and appreciation.

			SIXTY YEARS.

FULL sixty years of life together
Through both fair and stormy weather;
Full sixty years has the grass grown green,
And sixty snows lie deep between.
Look backward to days on the long dusty road,
Where together you’ve borne this life’s heavy
	load;
Scan all the dark places you’ve safely passed o’er,
Where the storm clouds hang darkly behind and 
	before.
Then think of the sunshine that has glinted be-
	tween,
The warm summer breezes, ambrosial serene;
And then of the lessons you’ve learned by the way
Though sent in love’s kindness, yet hard to obey.
Now remember your children, dear pledges of
	love,
Choice gifts of a father that dwells up above;
How cheerful your hearth, how happy your home,
Where love and devotion ever hath shone.
Sigh softly for those you have laid in the earth;
Whose love was so dear from the hour of their
	birth;
But they have gone on a place to prepare,
For father and mother and loved ones to share.
The Gospel light was given to you
Down in your hearts you knew ’twas true
You left your home and friends behind,
Far in the West the Church to find.
The Prophet's voice fell on your ears,
You hear it yet through changing years;
When in Nauvoo dark shadows fell
E’en now, though sad, the tale you tell.

God bless the noble Pioneers
Who left Nauvoo in blood and tears;
And on that bitter, stormy night,
Began that dreary, lonely flight.
God bless them? Yes! a hundred fold;
For cause of Truth they stood so bold;
Far out on Western barren plains,
On the breeze rang out the “Mormon” strains.


Now here in Utah’s peaceful vales,
Where cheer and plenty never fails,
With sons and daughters all around,
With the Saints of God you still are found. 
The sun now shining in the West,
With glory bathes the mountain crest;
And yet beyond, just over there
Lies a land more glorious, bright and fair.
Tis the land where all the faithful meet,
And loving friends each other greet;
'Tis the land where the loved and lost are found,
And all things fair, for aye, abound.
God love you now and ever more!
His choicest gifts, too, we implore:
And life as long as sweet to live,
And then the rest that Heaven can give.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Loving thoughts to Patriarch and Sister Horne
on the Sixtieth Anniversary of their wedding day.
	May 9th, 1896.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Juvenile Instructor office have now
in type a poem in pamphlet form by Mrs.
Lydia. D. Alder (a story in verse) giving a
description of the visit of the Tabernacle
Choir to California. It is a graphic account
of the tour made and is of historical inter-
est to our people. It is dedicated to Prof.
Evan Stephens. The price per copy will
be 10,cts.,the cover is noticable and title
taking “Mormon Tabernacle Choir” (in
California.)
	THE visit of Mrs. Laura M. Johns’ Na-
tional organizer and lecturer in our City
was a pleasant occurrence. While here she
was the guest of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox gave a reception at her
home the evening of May 13th, in honor of
Mrs. Johns’ and of Dr. Elliott, at which
the guests had the pleasure of hearing from
both these distinguished women. Mrs. F.
S. Richards who is also a National organizer
will go into Idaho with Mrs. Johns, they
expect to leave the 17th of this month.
		MINERVA W. SNOW.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Minerva White 
Snow, who was born March 22nd, 1822, in
Northbridge, Worcester County, Mas-
sachusetts. Her maternal grand-father,
Jabez Wing, was a direct descendant of the
early Puritan settlers who had left England
to escape religious persecution. Her grand-
mother, Patience Mowry, was also des-
cended from old New England stock and
was born in Providence R. I. 1765.
	Her parents, Alden and Achsah White,
were natives of Northbridge, Mass. They
were moral and religious people but were
not members of any church until the sub-
ject of this sketch was eighteen years of
age, when the family were converted to the
Mormon faith and emigrated to Nauvoo,
Where they resided until their co-religionists
were expelled from the state.
	In January, 1846, the daughter Minerva
was married to Erastus Snow, a man of re-
markable ability and who held the office of
Apostle in the Church. Mr. Snow was
born in Vermont, but his ancestors were
among the Pilgrim settlers of the Masssa-
chusetts colony.
	Directly after their marriage they took up
their line of march through the wilderness
that intervened between the Mississippi and
the haven of rest they expected to find on

[Column 2]
the Western slope of the Rocky Mountains.
Mrs. Snow remained at Winter Quarters
(now called Florence)  while her husband
accomplished the journey to the Salt Lake
Valley with the Pioneers, entering the
valley in company with Orson Pratt, three
days before the arrival of the main body of
the company, on July 21st, 1847.
	The hardships and privations of the next
few years are a matter of history, although
perhaps the half has not been told.
	In 1861 it was thought advisable to
colonize the valleys of the Rio Virgen and
Santa Clara in Southern Utah for the culti-
vation of cotton and semi-tropical fruits.
President Brigham Young, recognizing the
excutive ability of Mr. Snow as a pioneer
and colonizer requested him to take charge
of the enterprise, which he did, Mrs. Snow
accompanying him and sharing his labors
in redeeming the desert. She suffered very
much from the heat of the climate and
other causes, but was uniformly brave and
cheerful and accomplished much good dur-
ing her sojourn in the “Mormon Dixie.”
She was President of all the branches of
the Relief Society in Southern Utah and
held other positions of trust and honor.
Mr. Snow represented the Southern
counties for many years in the upper House
of the Utah Legislature. He was a warm
advocate of equal suffrage and was a
member of the legislature which conferred
this right upon the women of the Territory.
In 1875 Mrs. Snow in company with her
husband visited her childhood’s home in
Northbridge, Massachusetts. Also visited
her sister Mrs. Anna Payne, and some days
later visited her youngest sister Susan
Wade in Medford, Mass. She spent some
time in New England while her husband
was absent in Denmark. (He sailed from
New York three days after their arrival in
Northbridge.) He returned in July and
accompanied by his wife visited his relatives
in Vermont and Canada; started for home
August 25th, and arrived in due time.
For some years after her return from the
East, Mrs. Snow spent the greater part of
her time traveling with her husband visit-
ing Old Mexico, Arizona and various parts
of Utah, until the death of her husband
which occurred May 27th, 1888.
	Mrs. Snow is widely known and univer-
sally respected; is now a vice-president of
one of the most flourishing States in
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
is a firm believer in the principles of equal
suffrage. She is often seen at the bedside
of the sick and the dying and is ever ready
with words of sympathy and consolation
wherever occasion requires. She is pass-
ing the evening of her days in peace and
quietness, hopefully looking forward to a
reunion with the loved ones who have gone
before.
	Minerva White Snow died of Pneu-
monia at Manti, SanPete Co., Utah, April
1st, 1896, Wednesday at 2-40 after this
sketch was written.


[Column 1]
MRS. BROWN'S LETTER.

To the U. W. P. Club, From Wash-
	ington D. C.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	In letters received from home so many of
my friends ask me what I do with myself,
where I go and who I see. I have thought
often of the Utah Press Club and have in-

[Column 2]
tended writing them ever since I came, but
before doing so I wanted to visit the Na-
tional Association, as I have given myself
that pleasure, I send you this letter and
it you think best you can read it at the
next club meeting. Sincerely,
Isabel Cameron Brown.

	MRS. LOCKWOOD invited me to go to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday Evening at
the Riggs’ House Parlors. It was a very
hot uncomfortable evening; but the parlors
were full to overflowing. I met many
bright and distinguished women—a great
many have gained distinction in the literary
world. It was an open meeting in honor
of its President Mrs. Hannah B. Sperry
who with Mr. Sperry and her son go to
Europe the 24th of April, they have a son
I believe who represents the Government
in Scotland—they will be absent about
four months. The wife of Senator elect
Money—of Miss. Claudia B. Money gave a 
most interesting paper, “Impressions of
Hawaii"—she is a sweet looking, very un-
assuming woman. Mr. A.F. Sperry,a paper.
(I could not just see where he came in,as it
was a woman’s meeting) but it was a well
prepared paper and well given. An 
original poem was read by the writer
Marian Longfellow O’Donoghue, who
writes under the name of “Miriam Lester,”
she is a niece of the Poet Longfellow, a 
handsome and striking looking woman, and
very active here in public works, pertain-
ing to women. Miss B. V. Sherwood
(Sherwood Vane) gave a humorous sketch
of ghosts. She described the performances
given by Anna Eva Fay as we saw them
in the Salt Lake Theater a few years ago.
Mary Frost Ormsby gave a talk on her trip
to Europe when she went as a delegate to
some convention. Nearly every one of the
ladies that I met knew Mrs. Wells person-
ally and all said such nice things about her.
One of the members of this association is
Mrs. M. D. Hall. Mrs. Hall has been a 
guest in Salt Lake City of the Wells’ family
her husband is a cousin of D. H. Wells'.
	I went Saturday as a guest of Rosa Wright
Smith, one of the most charming women I
ever met, to a reception given by the mem-
bers of the “Mary Washington Chapter D.
A. R.,” at the Woman’s Club House 1710
I St. This Club House filled my soul with
delight, and it is what we all so need and
want in Salt Lake, it was rented for this
occasion, there was music, (and I noticed
no patriotic airs were sung) and ices and
lemonade served. Mrs. Smith is a dis-
tinguished woman. She lives in a charm-
ing home on A. St. with her father General
H. G. Wright, he is one of the most dis-
tinguished army men left. General Wright
commanded Blandensborg, preventing the
rebels from capturing Washington City.
Mrs. Smith is a "Colonial Dame" and has
been Corresponding Secretary to the
National G. A. R. I met the other day
when paying a visit to Secretary Morton’s
the woman that I think has interested me 
the most of any that I have yet met (not
excepting Mrs. Cleveland.) Mrs. Wilcox,
she was born in the White House, her
father was an adopted son of Andrew
Jackson. Her father ran for Vice Presi-
dent with Fillmore and was minister to
Germany, she knew all the great men of
her day and has a charming way of telling
about them. A friend took me one morn-
ing to Mrs. Caroline H. Dalls class, twenty-
five ladies meet each Wednesday morning to


pursue a course of reading—a number of
the Senators daughters belong. It was a
rainy morning and the ladies had their
work. Mrs. Dall did the reading and
asked questions, they meet in her morning
room, current events were gone through
with, she doing all the reading, then the
business of the morning began, the read-
ing of (Madame D’Arblay) Fannie Burney’s
letters when at the Court of George the
III of England; Mrs. Dall commenting as
she read. Mrs. Dall told me she had been
in Utah and seemed t know a great deal
about you all, in fact nearly all or everybody
one meets here has been in Utah or has
relatives or friends there. Mrs. Cleveland
is yet at Woodly where she fled with the
children when measles broke out in the
White House. I received a nice letter
from her yesterday and she writes, “Ruth
and Esther both have had the disease and
both are out again, the little baby seems to
be going to escape. The children had good
thorough cases and I think in a few days
they will be as strong as ever.” The
sweetest thing I have yet seen in Washing-
ton is the three Cleveland children in the nursery. 
Ruth was born in Oct. 1891—
Esther Sept. 9th, 93—Marion July, 95.
Mrs. Cleveland has nursed all her children.
	I wish our Utah mothers could see how in-
expensively and plainly they were dressed
the day I saw them, not a bit of trimming or ,
a tuck or a ruffle on any one of the three;
they were jolly, wholesome and rather
dainty looking children. Ruth looks like
her mother, Esther has light hair. You see
Mrs. Cleveland has her hands full to say
nothing of her social duties. Her mother
Mrs. Perine is to me as interesting as the
daughter and they are wonderfully alike.
Mrs. Perine is a great favorite in Washing-
ton and goes about and makes visits in the
most sociable manner and so the people 
like her greatly. The Vice President’s 
family are also very democratic and very
much liked, they live at “La Normande” 
and are in mourning for a daughter but they 
go about as they like and every one's face
wears a smile when Mrs. Stephenson
comes near them.
	I want to say in closing, that the weather
has been abominable, the entertainments I
have been to are no nicer than ours in Salt
Lake; the people I have met are no brighter,
the women are not nearly as pretty—and
the Brown family are all anxiously longing
for the adjournment of Congress to get
back to dear old Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE BOOK OF MORMON.

(A Sacred Relic.)
	DID any one ever read this Book of
Mormon with an inquiring mind to know
why it was kept expressly for this period
of time, for this generation? Do they dif-
fer from other people, does not human
nature seem to be the same to day that it
has previously been for ages.
	Oh yes: but you will remember the Lord
said in the last days “He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh:” and now since
this has been done see how science has
flourished until, we are all captivated, by
science. So much so we have no time to
read sacred relics. O no! A grand display
of everything is the need of the hour today.
	Yet there are a portion of the people, who
believe in an Omnipotent Power called God.
These people can see the hand of God in
all things.

[Column 2]
	These people can see the prosperity of
having night as well as day, for night
brings a new lesson for them to learn, The
Solar System for instance which shows how
the planets revolve around the sun and then
our earth also is a planet, &c.
	Now when we contemplate these things
we see our Father’s designs and purposes
come in their own time and place; all for a
wise purpose known only to Himself, yet
being His children we learn them by ex-
perience; while He knows the results before
they are seen by us. He knew who
would accept of this sacred relic the Book
of Mormon and appreciate it too. He knew
it would be those who were firm believers
in our Savior’s teaching and his power to
do the mighty works he did, called miracles.
	Now the question arises. Why did the
angel tell Joseph (this boy not fifteen years
old then) after seeing the plates that it was
not time yet, until four years more, but he
must meet him once a year until this time
expired. Does not this show that there are
times and seasons for every purpose under
the sun?
	This then is an important era of time,
great events will transpire in these days,
not only by science which has captivated
the human family: but great calamities
which man cannot fathom and which stops
man in his wild career to call him to ac-
count how he has spent his talents and time
given him by his Creator, for the human
family take great credit to themselves be-
cause of their improvement in the sciences.
	Would it not be well then to be humble
since we claim God to be our Father: and
remember this life is a school where there
are so many lessons to learn, each of them
to fit us for some place in our Father’s
kingdom.
	This being the case let us beware of pride
which is the spirit of this world and not of
our Father. The Book of Mormon shows
this in terms so plain that you can not be
mistaken. What do we learn of those
people who came to this continent because
of their humility and faith in God? His
protecting hand was over them, how great-
ly they were blessed until they became
rich in worldly goods, then pride crept in
and envy, hatred and malice followed in its
train. 
	Then we see the words of the wise king
or prophet verified, who said “Pride comes
before destruction and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
	Now I would ask: What is our position
to day, do we ever hear said ‘I am proud of
this and that,’ yes proud of this gospel,
proud that God is our Father, I would
rather He would be proud of me and help
me to live so that His smile of approbation
may rest upon that I do or say, rather than
I should make a grand display with which 
I may dazzle the eyes of my friends. No
let them be friends because I have proved
myself worthy of their friendship.
	Please excuse me if I compare notes of
the time the Book of Mormon speaks of,
and the present time. We read in days of
King Mosiah who was a righteous man,
but was about to die: he recommended they
had no king excepting he was a righteous
man because a wicked king would bring
much destruction upon the people, he
thought judges would be best.
	While he had been king the laws were
just laws, and peace prevailed, he said if
your judges do not judge by the law which
has been given, ye can cause them to be
judged by a higher law, and if this fail ye

[Column 3]
can bring a few of these judges together
and they shall judge by the voice of the
people. (Page 231 Book of Mosiah.)
	Now Alma was the first chief judge and
we learn from the book of Alma that a man
by the name of Korihor did not believe in
God, but said it was a foolish tradition of
their fathers to deceive the people and so be
injurious to the people, and glut themselves
on the labors of the people. Alma said to
him you know better, we do not take one
senine for our labors only for the time we
are on the judgment seat, but we work for
our support. That the people may not be
taxed so heavily. But Korihor would not
listen but must have a sign that there was a
God.
	Now Alma was grieved with his stubborn
will but being a righteous man asked God
to strike him dumb, it was done, then he
wrote saying he had been told by a person
to teach these words and was so successful
he began to believe it himself. Here he
saw his errors and that by the power of
God.
	Here we learn from this ancient history
how the Lord can bless the righteous, the
upright, and just and bring to naught the
designs of wicked men. The book of
Mosiah is beautiful on this subject.
	But grandeur and style has absorbed our
attention to that degree that this precious
book has been neglected, until we begin to
feel oppression in various ways, one in
particular is in building large and grand
structures which must be paid by taxes.
Another is the scientific machinery, by
which one man can do the work of five
men thus leaving those five men out of
work. Then how can these taxes be paid,
and obey the laws of God to feed and bless
the destitute.
	We read in yesterday’s paper that 300.000
dollars tax has been brought in, which is
only one third of taxes due to this city,
six hundred thousand remains due, in de-
linquent taxes. Yet every piece of property
is heavily taxed.
	How glad would we be to see those
days King Mosiah saw when he, although
their king was careful not to be oppressive
to the people in taxation. And when Alma
came to him to be instructed by him how to
judge a certain few King Mosiah says
“I judge them not, I leave this to yourself.”
	Alma was grieved but he went to God for
wisdom even as King Solomon asked God
for wisdom to judge Israel.
	They neither of them failed to get what
they asked because they were humble
and had faith in God our Father.
	Was there ever a book besides this book
which can so beautifully illustrate what we
are, and what we should be, to please our
Heavenly Father. I never saw its equal.
						M. E. K.


NEWS comes from Lexington, Ky., that
Col. W. C. P. Breckinridge is canvassing
his district again to run for Congress this
year, and the old movement of the women
in the district is being reorganized. They
will oppose the Colonel as they opposed
him two years ago. Then the race for
nomination between Breckinridge and Owens
was close. Now the friends of Kentucky’s
silver-tongued orator express the fullest
confidence in his success. He has been
practising law quietly for the last two years,
and seems to have worked off his memory
of the suit that caused Owens to beat him.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM

	MARY KENNET CULMER died April 18th, 1896
in this city. Mother Culmer, as she was affection-
ately called, was born at Luddenham, Kent
England, June 18th, 1824, and has been a member
of the Church for forty-three years. In the early
days of the Kentish conference, her hospitalities
to the missionaries were such as to be held in
grateful remembrance by many to this day. In
1868, she came to the valley with her husband and
these of her children who had not been sent on
before, and ever since has been an active and
much respected member of the twentieth ward,
where she endeared herself to all by her ready
sympathy and aid to the sick and afflicted.
Deceased was the mother of twelve children
fifty grand-children and twenty-five great-grand-
children.
	From noon until half-past 1 o’clock the remains
were on view at her late home, where many came
to pay their last respects, after which the body
was borne to the meeting house by her grand-
sons, followed my many of their descendants and
loving friends, including the members of the
twentieth ward Relief Society, who gathered in a
body out of respect to one who had been among
their most active co-workers.
At the funeral services, remarks were made by
Bishop George Romney and John Nicholsen, who
dwelt on the virtues and loving labors of Sister
Culmer, both for the living and the dead. Hymns
that had been selected by her before her death
were sung.
R.S. TwentiethWard, S. L. City.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES. 

	SISTER JANE HALL, died at Eager, Union
Ward, Apache Co., Arizona, April 5th, 1896, of
old age. She was born in North Carolina the 2nd
of March 1810. She joined the Church at an
early day and was with the Saints at Nauvoo and
was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph.
Smith and his family. She was one of the mem-
bers of the first Relief Society, she came to Utah
in 1852 and settled at Ogden. She was the
mother of ten children five of whom are now
living to mourn her loss; she spent the greater
part of her long and useful life among the sick
comforting and blessing them especially those of
her own sex, and was ever ready and willing to
do all she could for their relief. She was a faith-
ful wife, a kind and loving mother, and a true
friend, a faithful and conscientious Latter-day
Saint, and died as she had lived strong in the
faith. She had a happy, cheerful disposition and
made many friends.
	We do recognize in her death the severe loss
of a faithful and true friend to the sick and needy
and a comforter in the hour of trouble. We also
recognize in her faithful labors and devotion to
the cause of Zion an example worthy of the
emulation of each member of our society.
SARAH B. CROSBY,

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the Of-
ficers and members of the Relief Society of South
Bountiful to the memory of Phebe N. Hatch who
died Feb. 9th, 1896; she was born Nov. 6th, 1850
in the fifteenth Ward Salt Lake City.
	Whereas, Sister Hatch one of our beloved
teachers has left this stage of action;
	Resolved that we recognize in the death of
Sister Hatch, the loss of a faithful and energetic
teacher, a friend to the needy, a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted mother, and a faithful
Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that we esteem her labors and devo-
tion to the interest of Zion as worthy the emula-
tion of every member of our society.
	Resolved that we condole and sympathize with
the bereaved children and friends in the loss of a
loving mother and sincere friend.  
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
our records, a copy sent to the bereaved family
and also one be sent to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
	SARAH A. HOWARD, 
	MARY A. PAGE,		}Committee.
	MARY E. TOMLINSON

	DIED at Concho, Apache Co. Arizona, April 8,
1896, at 1-30 a. m., Matilda P. Williams. She had
been troubled with heart disease for several
years which terminated in dropsy of the heart.
She had lived an exemplary and useful life, was
loved and respected by all who knew her; all that
loving hearts and hands could do, was done for

[Column 2]
her but she passed away like one falling asleep
without a struggle; she had desired not to get
helpless. She leaves one daughter, and one son,
also ten grand children. Three children having
preceded her to the other side. Also her
husband having passed away some thirteen years
ago.
	She was born in Vienna, Trumble County,
Ohio, January 26th, 1828, joined the Church at an
early age while in Ohio, removed with her
parents to Nauvoo, experienced all the persecu-
tions which the Saints were subjected to, received
her blessings and anointings in the Nauvoo
Temple. Mrs. Williams was the one that first
discovered the Temple to be on fire in time to
have it extinguished has always been a useful
and zealous worker in the Relief Society also a
dear lover of the EXPONENT, and was an oc-
casional contributor to its columns. She went
from Nauvoo to Missouri with her parents where
she became acquainted with and married George
Williams, remaining there until the year 1867. Re-
moved to Salt Lake City, then to Payson, Utah
County, afterwards to Salem, Utah County, at the
first organization of the Relief Society, she was
chosen as Secretary, which position she filled un-
til the year 1877. Her husband was called to
help settle Arizona. She was chosen President
of the first Relief Society at Brigham City
Arizona; which position she retained until the
year 1879, when she removed to Concho, Arizona,
where at the organization of the first Relief
Society, then she was again chosen President;
which position she faithfully filled until failing
health caused her to resign. She has comforted
many a troubled heart, both by her presence and
her pen. She did not cling to life as she had felt
very lonely since the death of her husband and
we feel assured that a just reward awaits her for
the labors she has done in the flesh.


MRS. CHAPMAN-CATT.

MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT, nee Carrie
Lane, Chairman of the Organization Com-
mittee of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, was born in Ripon,
Wisconsin, and lived in that state until
seven years old. Then her parents removed
to Charles City, Ia., which was her home
during most of her life. She was educated
at the Iowa State Agricultural College,
after which she took a special course in law.
For three years she served as principal of
the high school and general superintendent
of schools of Mason City, Iowa, at the end
of which period, in 1884, she was married
to Leo Chapman, editor of the Mason City
Republican. They were joint owners and
editors. At the end of the year they sold
this property, and Mr. Chapman went to
the Pacific Coast to find a more active field
of labor. While there he sickened with
typhoid fever, and died in San Francisco.
Mrs. Chapman remained in that city for a
year doing general newspaper work, and
was the first woman reporter in that city.
During her life there, she became familiar
with much of the hardships and privations
of working women in great cities, and for
the first time realized the fearful tempta-
tions which beset the poor girl thrown up-
on her own resources. Many sad cases of
despair which finally led to ruined charac-
ter, came under her direct notice. With the
finale of one particularly distressing circum-
stance of this nature, she resolved that the
remainder of her life, with whatever ability
God endowed her, should be expended in
making the working women of the United
States respectable and respected, and her
right to labor unquestioned. With this in-
tent she went upon the platform as a lec-
turer upon general topics, thinking to gain 
a foothold in this way. It was not long be-
fore the suffrage cause claimed her attention.
For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891, she married


George W. Catt, president of the New York
Dredging Co. He is as ardent a suffragist
as his wife, and aids her in her work in
every way possible. Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Republican State Convention of
California, in session at Sacramento on May
6, adopted the following resolution by an
almost unanimous vote:
	Resolved, That this Convention favors
the proposed amendment to the Constitution
of the State of California, whereby it is,
sought to extend the elective franchise to
all citizens of the United States, both men
and women. 
	DON'T let us say that we would’nt trust
onr daughters and our sons anywhere. Let
us keep our faith whole and unbounded in
them. But do let us revise our ideas a little
as to what is right and proper in our social
customs. If our social customs were not so
lax, if young girls were not left alone with
young men so often and for so long a time,
there would be fewer daughters of respectable
homes go astray. Mothers cannot longer
close their eyes to this question; the souls of
their daughters are in their hands, and they
owe it to themselves, to their daughters and
to society, to throw every possible protect-
tion around them.— Womankind.
	THE New York Woman’s Press Club is
one of the many clubs which have respond-
ed to Mrs. Henrotin’s letter, sent out in
January to the “Federated Clubs,’’ urging
them to hold “peace meetings.’’ This club
held its peace meeting, sang patriotic songs
and then passed the following resolutions
with great unanimity: 
	Resolved, That the Women’s Press Club
of New York has two fights on hand—one
with Turkey, for the rescue of the Arme-
nians; the other with Spain, for the inde-
pendence of heroic little Cuba. When these 
are satisfactorily settled it will joyfully
welcome a peace jubilee. In the mean
time it heartily responds to the demand for
an international court of arbitration, and
looks upon “talk” of war, on the part of
nations or individuals, in regard to ques-
tions capable of peaceful solutions, as a blot
upon our nineteenth century civilization.
Resolved, That the thanks of all clubs of
women are due to Mrs. Henrotin, the presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s 
Clubs, for affording the opportunity of an
expression of opinion from 50,000 women
in regard to the preservation of the mani-
fold blessings of peace, in which women
and the homes they specially represent, are
so vitally interested.
	MISS ANTHONY, president of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association;
Mrs. Ellen Sargent and Mrs. Austin
Sperry, president and treasurer of the Cali-
fornia W. S. A.; Mrs. Knox Goodrich, of 
San Jose, Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Mary
G. Hay and Mrs. Ida A. Harper attended
the California Republican State Convention,
with a view to securing a woman suffrage
plank. The San Francisco Call says:
“Scarcely did they put up their placard in
the lobby of the Golden Eagle, stating that 
their headquarters were in parlors C, D and
E on the third floor, before they began to be
visited by the gentlemen delegates. They
went in two’s and three’s, in large groups,
and sometimes entire delegations went to
pay homage to these more modest workers


and apparently to beg the privilege of serv-
ing them. Large numbers of Sacramento
ladies identified with the cause of woman suf-
frage went to the headquarters,and left many
a choice collection of Sacramento’s magnifi-
cent roses and other flowers as a token of
their good wishes.” The committee on
platform and resolutions gave a hearing to
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw, and Mrs. Har-
per, and to Mrs. Ballou and Mrs. Blinn of
the Women’s Republican League Associa-
tion. Miss Anthony presented a petition
with 22, 000 signatures. She said these had
been somewhat hurriedly gathered, as it
had not been supposed that the convention
would meet so early, but it was the largest
petition ever presented in California on the
subject.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W.S.A.	
THE long expected visit of Mrs. Laura
M. Johns national organizer is now a 
thing of the past.
	Meetings were held in the Stake House
on the 18th and 19th of April. An or-
ganization was effected at 2:30 p. m. of the 
latter date, with sixty-three members.
	The following officers were elected for
the ensuing year. President Mrs. Henrietta
Hall, Vice President, Mrs. Mary Jane West
Cor. Sec. Miss Nellie Hunt, Rec. Sec Miss
Bashie Smith, Treasurer M. Flake and 
Auditor, Mrs. May H. Larsen.
	We found Mrs. Johns to be a very in-
teresting lady, and very much in earnest in
the suffrage movement.
	Mrs. M. J. West, Emma S. Smith and 
Sarah Driggs, were appointed to organize 
in the surrounding country, and have al-
ready organized the Ladies at Pinedale.
			NETTIE HUNT, Cor. Sec.
Snowflake, Arizona, May, 22, 1896.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE OF THE N.A.W.S.A.

	(Continued.).
	MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE
"Was next introduced. She spoke as fol-
lows:
Ladeis and Gentlemen: 
	This Conference has been, so far, an ex-
perience meeting that I think I might be
pardoned if I myself make a personal allu-
sion to one of our leaders in the suffrage
work.
	It was my good fortune while in college,
to hear an address by Rev. Anna Shaw,
delivered before the students in chapel.
Among other things she related her strug-
gles while in college.
	She said that any woman who would
make anything of herself in the world must
work and struggle with difficulties, and she
gave an illustration in her own winning
way. She said when other girls in school
were wearing their dresses cut on the bias,
hers were cut on the straight, and when
others were cut on the straight, she found
that she had gotten hers cut on the bias.
(Laughter) So we must all make sacrifices,
if we wish to do things worthy of note.
An old judge said to me recently, “Don’t
talk to the men any more about suffrage,
talk to the women.” He was referring to
the recent municipal election in Ohio; he
seemed to forget that the women there went
out to vote in the pouring rain, and one
woman was so eager to cast her vote that

[Column 2]
she got to the polls before they were open.
I think it is well to say a few things to wo-
men on this subject, because they are not
all convinced that they ought to vote. In
my opinion, one of the greatest obstacles
that stands in the way of some wom n
favoring woman suffrage, is that they think
the Bible is opposed to any independent
action on the part of women; for instance
when St Paul gave the injunction that women
were to keep silent in the churches, he did not
mean that women for all time were to keep
quiet, but simply that women of that time
and place should not appear in public on
account of some impropriety they had been
guilty of. It may seem unnecessary to re-
fer to this but in a recent standard magazine
I found an article which I deem unworthy
of the pen of the eminent writer. I refer
to Mr. Boyesen’s article on the “Matrimon-
ial Puzzle" in the February number of the
North American Review. He saye:
	“Women of the upper classes have been
petted and defered to almost from baby-
hood, and have been taught to regard them-
selves as privileged persons. Every stone
is carefully removed from their path, reality
is expurgated for their benefit, their very
religion is refined and tempered to their
delicate constitutions, etc. But it is un-
doubtedly true that as individuals they
have lost rather than gained by being
shielded and protected from all rude and
painful contact with reality. You can-
not artificially limit experience without im-
pairing growth, diminishing the chances of
survival, and blighting the germs of char-
acter.”
	How true to fact and how strongly
stated! The false conclusion of the writer
is all the more surprising:
	”If they (women) desire equality, inde-
pendence and development of individuality
(which is surely a legitimate desire) they
ought to have the courage to face celibacy
and renounce matrimony; for equality in
matrimony is an irridescent dream. Love,
permit me to humbly remonstrate, delights
not in self-assertion, but in self-surrender,
and all this loud trumpeting of indepen-
dence will make the shy little god hang his
head with shame; if it does not frighten
him away altogether.”
	Then Mr. Boyesen goes on to draw a
picture of a middle aged statesman and his
serene wife whose love for her lord is as
simple and natural as Eve’s love was for
Adam before the serpent began to talk
philosophy to Eve. “It was after the fatal
discourse on the higher education that their
matrimonial sky darkened and troubles be-
gan to thicken. Then the raven croaked
in the Garden of Eden, the nightingale
sang out of tune, and the turtle doves fell
to quarreling in the Tree of Knowledge.
Matrimony had become a problem.” 
	And so matrimony becomes a problem
when women become enlightened! In
other words, to make marriage a success,
women must be densely ignorant. The
women who insist upon improving them-
selves must bravely face celibacy. A fine
position indeed for eighteen hundred and
ninety-five! He says that every bachelor
is a skulker, but he holds that every wo-
man who means to make something of her-
self must renounce matrimony. It seems
to me, on the other hand, that every wo-
man who renounces matrimony for selfish
purposes is a skulker also. I don’t refer to
those women who, like St. Paul, have
sacrificed everything for their life-work, but

[Column 3]
the ordinary woman is intended for mar-
riage, I cannot understand why men talk
so much about the domestic woman, why
they marry the Dora that Dickens tells us
about and just as soon as they get that do-
mestic woman bound to them, they leave
her for the saloon or club. If woman were
a true companion her hnsband would never
leave her for other selfish pleasures.
	I read a pretty story recently about the
Burmese ladies. We think that over there
in Burmah they are very far behind the
times, it will no doubt surprise you as it did
me to learn that the Burmese have equal
privileges for both sexes.
	When a Burmese maiden makes up her
mind that she is ready to marry, they have
a pretty custom of placing a candle in the
window and at this signal the suitors begin
to present themselves for approval.
	It seems to me that in this country when
a maiden feels that she is ready for mar-
riage if her lamp could be lighted by intelli-
gence and common-sense that the marriage
relation would be more enduring, 
	So much was said during the Constitu-
tional Convention especially by the hero
Roberts about woman suffrage breaking up
the family. This is such a hackneyed ob-
jection that I don’t wish to devote much
time to it, but so much was said upon the
subject during the debate in the Convention
that I think it is well to refer to this point.
	I read a statement a short time ago in
reference to divorces in Wyoming claiming
that there were fewer divorces there in
proportion to the population than in any
other state in the Union. How does that
look for breaking up families?
	Mr. Roberts also had a great deal to say
about Tennyson, and often quoted him to
show his ideas of the position of women.
Now I should like to read a few extracts
from Emerson(and you all well know that
if there ever was a man in this world that
was well poised and well balanced that
man was Emerson) in his lectures on “Pro-
gress of Culture” delivered before a college
class away back in 67, he says;
	“The new claim of woman to a political
status is itself an honorable testimony to
the civilization which has given her a civil
status new in history. Now that by the
increased humanity of law she controls her
property, she inevitably takes the next step
to her share in power. (She has had a
hard fight for it.)
	We wish to put the ideal rules into prac-
tice, to offer liberty instead of chains, to see
whether liberty will not disclose its proper
checks; believing that a free press will
prove safer than the censorship to ordain
free trade, and believing that it will not
bankrupt us, universal suffrage, believing
that it will not carry us to mobs or back to 
rings again. I believe that the checks are
as sure as the springs.” (Applause.)


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

