
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. JUNE 1, 1895.		No. 1.


CONTENTS:
	Sermon By Rev. Anna H. Shaw In The Large
Tabernacle In Salt Lake City, & Susan B.
Anthony’s Speech. Poetry—Olea Shipp. Eter-
nal Law—S. V. R. Lecture And Shakespearean
Recital. Emery County W. S. A.—Sarah A.
Stapley. Woman Suffrage—Ruby Lamont.
Events In The Life Of Eliza Rollinson. Woman
Suffrage Column.

	EDITORIAL:—Editorial Notes. Golden Wed-
ding. Passing Thoughts—Annie Wells Cannon.
	POETRY:—June—A. W. C. Truth—L. M.
Hewlings.


JUNE.

JUNE—loveliest of months,
	Fairest of all the year,
Music and garlands and laughter;
	Perhaps the gentlest tear;
You bring, in the world’s great cycle
	All treasures of true worth,
For the tears of heaven’s weeping
	Are the fountains of the earth.

Summer’s heart with all its gladness 
	Cannot earth’s completeness know,
’Till it mingles in the sadness
	With the winter’s spotless snow.
So life’s heart forever longing
	For earth’s brightness and sunshine
Must feel earth’s sombre shadows
	For its fulness most sublime.

And the songs and gentle soughing
	Of the birds and tender leaves
And the glowing of the flowers,
	And the humming of the bees,
And the children’s joyous laughter
	And the sighs and thoughts replete.
Of all the months, of all the year,
	Make June the most complete.
						A. W. C.


[Column 1]
SERMON BY REV. ANNA H. SHAW
IN THE LARGE TABERNACLE IN
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Reported by John Irvine, May 12, 1895.]
	PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON then in-
troduced to the audience the,
	REV. ANNA H. SHAW,
		Who said that as they were traveling
along in the train, between here and Den-
ver, through the mighty mountains, and
over the vast plains, she realized more than
she ever did in her life what it had cost of
courage, of manhood, of womanhood, of
character, to open up and give to the world
this vast territory and bring it to its pres-
ent condition. She realized then as she
never did before the courage that must have
been in the hearts of the pioneers, the de-
termination of purpose that must have
actuated them, and the hope they saw lying
before them of a brighter and surer day for
the future. And all the way along she
wondered what she could talk about to the
vast congregation that she would meet in
the City of Salt Lake; her a stranger, and
the people whom she had to address having
ways and religious beliefs largely different
form her own. They differed religiously,

[Column 2]
they differed, perhaps, politically, they dif-
fered in many ways, and yet there came to
her the blessed reflection that they were all
the children of a great and common Father,
even God. In what ever way they might
differ, they were all reaching after the truths
of God, and reaching out after God if
haply He might be found; their hopes and
aspirations were all reaching in one direc-
tion. In one passage of scripture it was
written: "Be strong and of good courage;
be not afraid, neither be thou deceived, for
the Lord thy God is with thee wheresoever
thou goest." If there was anything that
must have inspired the hearts of the pioneers
as they crossed the plains it must have been
the consciousness that they would receive,
as a portion of God's children God's care.
This must have been the feeling of the
people as they journeyed to and opened up
this vast territory. Strength and courage
and faith were needed. 
	Certain things were required to make a
man or a woman's character. In some
places the word "man" did not mean wo-
man also; but in Utah she hoped it meant
both, and as such she would use it. The
word "man" had come by usage in the
East to mean woman also when it had refer-
ence to hard work, sacrifice and toil; but it
meant "man" only when glory and power
and comfort were referred to. She hoped
that in Utah it meant man and woman al-
ways in toil, in glory, in comfort, each and
altogether. It should refer to all human-
kind—man and woman—who are willing to
stand up for the truth, whatever that truth
might be. They all needed strength of
character. Entering upon the responsibili-
ties of statehood she believed it necessary
for every man and woman to be strong.
Women had been taught to be meek and de-
pendent, and not to feel that strength and
dignity which they ought as children of
God; but in this better day it means that
the sons of men are the sons of women.
No man could be strong unless the mothers
of men are strong, and therefore it was as
necessary for mothers to be strong as it was
for the fathers to be strong. It was as
necessary for mothers to display courage
and steadfastness to principle, as it was for
the fathers to exhibit the same character.
She believed that wherever God had a
strong and mighty people, He would lead
them wheresoever He willed, and no evil
would befall them if they put their trust in
Him. She knew that the influences of
environment were strong, and a great many
people in the world believed that these
could not be overcome. She believed, how-
ever, that very often men were as
responsible for circumstances as circum-
stances were for them. Many people had
come to feel that sin was not quite as much
sin as it used to be; that crime is a disease;
that a sinner is- a diseased person; and
people were not made to feel as much as
they ought to feel the power of responsibil-
ity; that every man and every woman stand
responsible to God for the deeds done in the
body. She believed in preaching every-
where the doctrine which made every man
and every woman feel the responsibility of

[Column 3]
lite, and the dignity and nobility of
character. In regard to the influences of
environment, she believed in the power of
the spirit of Almighty God being able to
lift men above such influences, and make 
them a power in this life, and a glory to God
in the life to come.
	Some things were necessary for every man
and woman in this direction, and the most
important of all was, that which would tend
to strengthen character—moral courage, the
courage that would enable every man and
woman to stand up for principle, for truth,
for right, as the right was revealed to them.
She knew there were a great many people
who said that women were weak and there-
fore ought to have no voice in the govern-
ment of the country; that they had no
muscle big enough to defend the country; 
and there were many who believed that
physical strength and powers were greater
than moral courage, but it should be re-
membered that the strength of nations did
not depend upon muscle, but upon the
head and heart of the people of the nation,
and surely no one could deny that women
were possessed of both of these. She
meant moral courage, which enabled men
and women, out of the current of thought
which is issued out upon the world, and
the many theories that are presented—to
dig out of these those thoughts and theories
that seemed to be true, and then stand up
and defend them with all the power that
God had given them; defend them with
every energy of their nature; defend them
though the world might not believe the
truth. She believed in the right of every-
body to search for the truth, and, having
found it, defend it regardless of all conse-
quences. Everybody did not do so. It
was hard to turn aside from those with
whom they had been associated in times
past. But it was the duty of every man
and woman to stand up for principle. The
strength of this great nation of ours did
not lie, as she said a moment ago, in armed
forces. It was only through the men of
moral corage—men, who having a con-
viction, would stand up and defend it to the
last—that we might help to come to the
people. Whenever a man told her that wo-
men were unfit to take part in the affairs of
the country, it was well to remind them that
there was another kind of power that was over
and above physical power. Here the lady
related an instance of a huge dog having
entered a church in which she was preach-
ing. It of course attracted the attention of
the whole congregation. Several men tried
to drag the dog to the door, but he returned
to the front, and it seemed as if he intended
to wend his way up to the pulpit. Now, to
have a dog in the pulpit would be a great
deal worse than having a woman there.
Finally, as the dog wandered up the aisle, a
little boy, about eight years of age, who
had that look upon his face that made one
feel that he was kind to all sorts of animals,
put out his hand, clapped the dog, talked
kindly to it, led it down the aisle to the door, 
and the dog trotted down the street as
though he were glad to go. Here was a
power mighter than physical power. It


[Column 1]
was the power which ruled in the Only Be-
gotten Son of God—love. It was the
power that made Him give up His life that
man might be led to a knowledge of God.
That power was essential today to bring
about a changed condition of things. It
was that power in the heart of man for his
fellow man that would lift them up nearer
to truth and nearer to right. But moral
courage and love were not all that was
needed. She presumed there were men
and women in the congregation who had
the courage to cross those vast plains. She
would like to ask what it was that made
them hold on day after day. At night there
was the burning fire, and all around the dry
dust of the plains, to consume them within
and without. What was it that made pos-
sible for them, with the darkness still
around, to lie down without fear of sur-
rounding danger. What was it made them
rise up the following morning, and go still
on and on towards the setting sun? Was it
not an unfaltering faith that God would
lead them to the land of promise where
they could build their future homes, and
where they could rest? Faith in God was
the inspiration of all great men of old.
Plutarch, 2,000 years ago, stated that he
found cities without theatres or gymnasiums
but never without places for sacrifice,
shrines and gods. That which had drawn
men together into societies, into cities and
into nations was faith in an over-ruling
Providence who holds the destinies of all
people in the hollow of His Almighty
hand. Faith in God ennobled man in dis-
tress, in adversity and in business.
	But men and women must not only have
moral courage, must not only have un-
faltering faith in God; there were higher
laws that must be obeyed. Every man and
woman realized that there were spiritual
laws toward which their spirits responded as
a flower did to the rays of the sun, and the
man or woman, who was strong in character
was the one who was obedient to the teach-
ings of the spirit. No man was fit to be a
general in the army who had not first been
a private and learned how to obey. No
man was fit to be a teacher who had not
himself the principles he taught to others.
No man was fit to be a leader in statescraft
who had not himself been taught. So, no
man or woman was fit for the work of God
in this world who had not first of all be-
come obedient to the teachings of God in
his or her own life. Uncomprising
obedience to the teachings of God was neces-
sary. Just think of that mighty man Lord
Byron—a man of masterful mind—a miracle
of poesy. In his soul was a harp so divinely
tuned that angel fingers would fain have
touched its strings. It pleased God to place
this mighty power in the hands of man,
but when God asked him for a song which
would have lifted men out of degradation,
out of the dark vales of despair, he took
the harp and sank it in the dust at the feet
of his selfish lusts, and the whole world
mourned the loss of the song. Each of
God's children had received from God a
soul similarly attuned, and if one would but
hearken he would hear His divine voice.
Christ promised that He not only would
own His own, but that His own would
know Him. They would know His voice,
and they would follow Him, and the voice
of a stranger they would not follow. And
so in all time the souls of men have been
divinely attuned to hear the voice of God.
Men may never have heard of the written
word, and yet they are not left without a

[Column 2]
witness of a God. Men's souls cry out after
God. There lies in each man's heart a
divine love—a love that can become so
limitless, so broad, so deep, so pure, so en-
during that men have changed its name and
called it God. This would endure after
the world had gone to decay, after the uni-
verse had passed away.
	Men and women, therefore, strong in
character, are those who possessed moral
courage—courage to stand up for principle,
for right, for truth; men and women who
have unfaltering faith in God, who have
zeal, and have become obedient to the higher
laws of God. These traits were requisite
to success; "and if you men and women,"
said the speaker, "are loyal to these
principles the time will come when your
state shall be a glory and an honor to the
Union of States and you shall be a glory to
the world."
	Everywhere help was needed to get rid
of the sin and wrong everywhere to be
found. Why was it so? Was it because
men loved to be bad? She did not believe
the worst man in the world loved to be bad.
He was led by certain impulses which he
believed would add to his pleasure and to
his comfort; but to believe that he did this
because he loved to be bad was a mistake.
She believed that the great majority of man-
kind were reaching up toward God, groping
in darkness and ignorance though they
might be. She had so much faith in
humanity and in God that she believed that
wherever, out of the darkness, a single soul
is turned, the light of God's spirit would
shine in that soul. And, so, believing in
humanity, believing in God, she looked for-
ward to the time when every knee would
bow in obedience to God, and men would
show by their love for the Almighty their
love for each other; their faith in Him by
their faith in each other; His willingness
to help them by their willingness to help
each other; "for how could we love God
whom we have not seen if we do not love
our brethren whom we have seen." Then
shall come the better day, and then the
better time. God would never leave us
alone, never forsake us. In all our battles
for truth He would be by our side. It was
our duty to seek Him morning, noon and
eventide. He who served God faithfully here
would reap the harvest by and by; he who
would serve God faithfully in disappoint-
ment, discouragement shall be given the
victory in the end.
	The speaker concluded by saying that
she was glad to have had the privilege of
coming here and of speaking a few words
to the people. She hoped that all would
go forth realizing the responsibility resting
upon them, and closed her address by a
prayer for the blessing of God to rest upon
all His children.
	President A. M. Cannon next introduced
MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	Who spoke as follows:—"It is just about
twenty-four years ago that I was present in
this great Tabernacle on the day upon
which you dedicated it to the service of the
Lord, and every nook and corner, of this
great building was packed on the occasion
with people from every part of the Ter-
ritory, many being unable to gain admit-
tance. It was the most magnificent gather-
ing I ever saw, and it was brought together in
the midst of the greatest trouble that any
people who were seeking to do right could
go through. In this quarter of a century
you have come to the splendid moment

[Column 3]
when you are about to pass from the period
of childhood of the government—from the
period that governors have been placed over
you by the national government, from the
period of the condition of living under
subjection—to the period when you are
about to pass into the condition of self-gov-
ernment; and I am glad to be here this
moment to congratulate you upon this great
and good result which has come to you, or
is abont to come to you. I want to con-
gratulate you all that in the making of the
fundamental law of your state in your Con-
vention you have ordained that justice
shall be done to all your people; that the
women who toiled by your sides, who came
over the plains with you men, who have
suffered all you have suffered, and a great
deal more than many will ever know, of
sacrifice and hardship—I congratulate you,
I say, that in your sense of justice and gen-
erosity you have incorporated in your con-
stitution, which is to be law of your state,
that women shall be by your side. Justice
is what every human being longs for, and,
therefore, I, today, congratulate you upon
this auspicious moment when the Territory
of Utah is about to become a state, that the
women who for the last few years have been
disfranchised—not by the law of the Ter-
ritory, but by national legislation—will be
restored to their just right. I know you
will go on and prosper, and that you will
become the greatest of the mountain states,
and it is destined to become one of the great
states of the nation. This is the third
mountain state that has ordained justice to
all the people, that has declared that their
government shall be genuine, not for a part
of the people; but for the whole com-
munity."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POETRY.
	
	POETRY is the language of the soul, the
inspiration of mankind, and praises of nature
and of God! There is poetry in beautiful
thoughts, kind deeds and loving words:
there is poetry in the chirp of the meadow-
lark and the croak of the frog; there is
poetry in the rising and the setting sun, in
the stars and the moon, in a beautiful sky;
there is poetry in the hills and the dales,
and the delicate tinted flowers that grow
there; there is poetry in the mountains and
the laughing streams that rush down their
sides. There is poetry in music, painting
and art; in everything that is beautiful,
grand, sublime, noble and true.
	Persons have been heard to say they dis-
like poetry. It readily shows that they do
not understand it and cannot appreciate it.
Poetry is not mere rhyme. To show you
poetry is not always written in rhythmical
numbers I will suggest that you read, “The
Tempest” from Charles Dicken’s, “David
Copperfield” or John Ruskin’s “Modern
Painters.”
	To illustrate to you how poetry is the
language of the soul, I will quote from
Longfellow’s “Psalm of Life.”

	“Tell me not in mournful numbers
		Life is but an empty dream,
	For the soul is dead that slumbers
		And things are not what they seem.
	Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal:
	Dust thou art to dust returnest,
		Was not spoken of the soul."

	Is there a heart that does not feel a res-
ponsive thrill when perusing these eloquent
thoughts. But what would they have been,


where would they have stood in literature,
had not our beloved poet, Longfellow, 
expressed them in poetry—true poetry? I
said it was the inspiration of mankind. Is
it not, when you hear beautiful thoughts
and sentiments expressed in poetry, does it
not cheer, elevate, inspire, the soul to things
eternal and sublime? Are not songs and
praises always put into poetry? What
would they be in mere phraseology, nothing.
There would be no sentiment about them.
	What would patriotic songs be without
this poetic inspiration? Would they arouse
any. sense of patriotism in you? For instance,
will give part of our national song,
‘‘America” in common language and then
in its own musical rhythm—
	This country, where the first settlers met
their death is mine. I will sing of freedom
from the mountains, to you, (or)

		“My country! ’tis of thee,
		Sweet land of liberty.
			Of thee I sing:
		Land where my fathers died,
		Land of the pilgrim’s pride
		From ev’ry mountain side
			Let freedom ring.”

	Which has the patriotism in it?
arouses your patriotic emotions? The
ardent lover of poetry in all its glory, is the
one who can tell Again, I ask, what must
be the state of that soul which despised
poetry, for, in this state of mind, they can-
not appreciate anything good, pure, beauti-
ful or sublime. Shakespeare must have had
in mind such a being when he said:
“The man that hath no music in himself,
	Nor is moved with concord of sweet sounds,
	is fit for treason, stratagems and spoils.
	The motions of his spirit are dull as night
	And his affections dark as Erebus— 
	Let no such man be trusted.”
							Olea Shipp
May, 18, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN TRUTH.

I’m resting in my evening tent,
	The light is fading—growing dim,
Yet in my heart lies sweet content,
	Love’s hallowed hymn.

I hear the wailing of the wind,
	The surging waters just below,
I rest secure in peace within,
	Love wills it so.

Trusting in His pardoning grace,
	To keep and save me from all sin,
The loving kindness of His face.
	Is never dim.

In trusting faith I bide my time,
	Enquiring not how long the stay,
But leaning on His word sublime,
	Await the day.

To cross the river flowing near.
	To fold my tattered tent away,
At His command, I need not fear,
	He’ll lead the way.

And then a loving Savior’s smile,
	Life everlasting, free from sin;
Stranger and pilgrim here awhile
	Then Seraph’s hymn!
					L. M. Hewlings.


[Column 1]
ETERNAL LAW.

	IT is written of God that He has never
given unto man a temporal law, that His
laws are all spiritual, that to Him all things
are spiritual. It therefore follows that the

[Column 2]
command to multiply and replenish the
earth was a spiritual, an eternal law, and
was given to spiritual beings capable of
observing it. The covenant and obligation
of each in the keeping of the law was to be
an everlasting covenant, a spiritual cove-
nant and obligation as eternal as the being
from whom the law had emanated: and was
to be made in view of its eternal conse-
quences.
	When a man by mutual consent of both
parties has made of woman a wife and
mother, and a child has been born, a living
soul created that has been done which can
never be undone. Eternal results and con-
sequences must inevitably follow, and this
is sufficient reason why it should be done
by virtue of an everlasting covenant, a
covenant made to endure in time and
through all eternity, co-equal in duration
with the results of the work done.
	The intent, purpose and deliberation
should be in accord with the character of
the work, so that by virtue of actual merit
the reward may be secured. The reward
could not be reasonably claimed without the
intent and purpose were an element of the
work done, and prompted the parties who
did it: in full faith of acquiring benefits
that would result therefrom.
	Any work done by parties who are per-
fectly indifferent or regardless of the con-
sequences; is done without faith in that
work and without any righteous intent,
would be a work without hope of reward, a
work to which no reward could attach, as
it would be without the elements of either
hope or charity. Faith, Hope and Charity,
these three abide; they are elements or at-
tributes which must enter into all the works
and deeds of men to make them works of
righteousness as enduring as eternity its-
self.
	Hence it is that the relationship of the
sexes by virtue of covenant made only for
time is void to them beyond the limits of
time. The fruits of that relation are be-
gotten as destitute of eternal element in
their creation, as were the creators who
formed them, and the result is apparent
unbelief and infidelity in eternal things are
characteristics of the race begotten in a
covenant made only for time: when and
where passions rule: and elements that are
divine are in contempt, as unworthy of hu-
man recognition.
	In this life where evil prevails such a
work must universally prove to be the work
of folly and wickedness, and if not
restrained will result in evil and misery as the
only just reward for evil done. Though
a man slay his fellow man, the deed of
death be done, yet if, there be no intent or I
purpose of so doing, guilt does not attach,
punishment does not follow. So in all cases
of moral action, faith must prompt to deeds
of right, and intent to deeds of wrong, to
call into exercise the principles of mercy
and justice, resulting in rewards and pun-
ishments for acts of this mortal life.
	Complete moral rectitude will never come
to man on earth uutil the marriage cove-
nant is made and honored as one for time
and for all eternity: never ending and never
to be violated; and every soul have free ac-
cess to it, not only as a natural inherent
right, but from the eternal fact that “the
man is not withont the woman nor the wo-
man without the man in the Lord.” No
eternal life but in the eternal law. 
							S. W. R.


LECTURE AND SHAKESPEAREAN
RECITAL.

BY MISS IDA SNOW.
	Miss Ida Snow will shortly give a lecture
and Shakespearean recital. The first part
will be devoted to personal experiences in
and impressions of Italy, Part First
Venice; Arrival; Grand Canal by moon-
light; Piazza; the fashionable prom-
enade, and its celebrated pigeons; Palace of
the Doges; its glorious paintings, Academia
delle Belle Art; a famous street; amusing trait
of Italian character; Church St. Marco, in all
its Byzantine magic and splendor; its mag-
nificent pictorial decorations; Scuola d’S
Roceo Tintiretto’s Gallery; S. Giovanni
Paola and “The Frari;” S. Maria “Far-
mosa;” Palma “Vecchio’s;” St. Barbara;
Armenian convent, Island of S. Lozzaro
celebrated in travel and romance; Island
Muranto seat of Venetian glass industry; the
people, gondoliers and gondolas; ceremony
tragic scenes of Bargaining; Palaces of
extinct nobles; Art and Artists; Farewell.
Byron’s Childe Harold on Venice.
	The Shakespearean recital, “Forest
Scene,” from “As You Like it.”


EMERY COUNTY W.S.A.
	
	A Convention was held at Orangeville
May 13, 1895, for the purpose of reorgan-
izing the Emery County W. S. A. Mrs.
Mary Ann Sorenson was chosen temporary
Chairman and Mrs. Carrie O. Larsen, Sec-
retary pro tem. Mrs. Jane C. Petersen, of,
Castle Dale, was sustained as County Pres-
dent, with Mrs. S. A. Fullmer and Tennie
Curtis, of Orangeville, Vice Presidents;
Mrs. Sarah A. Stapley, of Castle Dale, Sec-
retary and Treasurer Mary Ann Soren-
sen, Chairman Executive Board Josephine
Jack, Aggie Curtis, Maria Guymon,
of Orangeville, and Annie E. Seely, Caro-
line U. Larsen, of Castle Dale, members of
Board.
	S. A. Fullmer, late President, made a
few remarks in regard to the former organ-
ganization said they had met with opposi
tion, and the officers being so scattered, she
had a great part of the burden to bear; was
glad to be released. Mrs. Josie Childs
spoke of the advantages of belonging to the
W. S. A.; called a vote of thanks from the
ladies present for our Delegates who had
done so much in our favor at the Constitu-
tional Convention.
	Mrs. Jane C. Petersen asked the ladies to
accept her thanks for the honor conferred 
upon her, and solicited their aid in making 
the Association a success. Mrs. Tennie
Curtis made a few remarks in accepting the
position of Vice President. Mary Ann So-
renson said we know there are political 
rights for women, and it will cost some
effort on our part to find out what they are.
	Delegate Robertson, of Orangeville, felt -
honored to speak to the ladies of the Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association related some
of the events that had transpired at the
Convention at Salt Lake, in regard to equal.
rights for women with men, being adopted 
in the Constitution.
	The President will organize Associations
in each town so all can be working in the
good cause.	JANE C. PETERSEN, Prest. 
			SARAH A. STAPLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY JUNE 1, 1895.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE sermon of Bishop O. F.Whitney 
in the Tabernacle on Sunday, May 12, fol-
lowing the celebrated women who spoke on
that occasion will be published in the next
number of the Exponent.
	THE pamphlet containing the several
speeches of Hon. O. F. Whitney before the
Constitutional Convention upon equal suf-
frage will soon be ready to distribute, as it
is now in the hands of the printers. 
	THE regular Quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society will be held
Saturday June 15th, at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. in the Assembly Hall. A full represen-
tation of all the branches in the County is
desired.
	THE first number of the new volume be-
gins the twenty-fourth year of the Wo-
man’s Exponent, which has been in
existence now since June 1, 1872. The
paper has always been the repository of the
work of the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of women and children that
have been established since. Biographical
sketches of some of the most eminent wo-
men of the Church, and of the world, have
appeared from time to time, and it has
really been the avenue through which much
literary talent has been encouraged and
cultivated. The deaths of all the sisters
who have passed away, from time to time
are recorded as far as possible, and all
questions of public interest relating to wo-
men, minutes of meetings, and other mat-
ters of importance find place when space
is available. The value the paper has been
to the organizations, and to the women gen-
erally cannot be estimated in figures; nor
can the work of those who have devoted so
miich time and heart and brain to the work.
If the sisters could realize what the
Exponent has done for them in causing
them to become known, the influence it
has brought to their charitable and other
work, not only here but elsewhere, they
would not be so indifferent to its financial
interests.


[Column 1]
GOLDEN WEDDING.

EZRA T. AND MARY S. CLARK.
	The Golden Wedding of Elder Ezra T.
Clark and his wife Mary S. Clark, was cel-
ebrated on Saturday evening, May 18, 1895,
in the Opera House at Farmington, Davis
County, Utah, with appropriate program
and ceremony. There were present rela-

[Column 2]
tives of the husband from the East and the
West, who had taken the long journey that
they might be present and do honor on
such a memorable occasion of a dear rela-
tive and friend. President Wilford Wood-
ruff and wife, of Salt Lake City; Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, General President of the Re-
lief Society, and several other sisters from
Salt Lake City; also Prof. J. M. Tanner
and Dr. C. F. Wilcox and wife were pres-
ent by invitation; also President J. W.
Hess and wife, of Davis Stake, and his
counselor, Hiram Grant and wife; Bishop
Secrist and wife, of Farmington; Mrs.
Susan Grant, President of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake, and many intimate
friends. Among the relatives from a dis-
tance we must mention Wm. O. Clark, of
San Francisco, an older brother of the
bridegroom, who had performed the mar-
riage ceremony of Brother and Sister Clark
fifty years before in Lee County, Iowa;
also the eldest sister, who had, at the great
age of 85 years, come to help celebrate this
happy union after half a century of experi-
ence in wedlock. There were many other
younger people, some not so very young,
either, yet all were welcomed to the gener-
ous hospitality of the venerable couple,
who looked quite as smiling and happy,
and almost as timid (one would imagine)
as on the day when they were first united
in the holy bonds of matrimony. Then
they were young and had the future spread
out before them, but they were poor in this
world's goods, for it was just shortly after
the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
the Latter-day Saints were plunged in sor-
row and mourning. Now these good
people are heads of families of more than
one generation, besides having prospered
temporally and secured to themselves an
everlasting inheritance through the order of
celestial marriage.
	The program of the evening opened with
music (instrumental) night march, by John
Tupper, grand nephew of Brother Clark's
from Santa Rosa. Then the company
sang "Come let us anew," etc., after
which prayer was offered by President Hess,
and the favorite hymn by Sister Eliza R.
Snow was sung by a choir of young people,
Brother Steed, of Farmington, who has a
fine voice, leading, the others joining in.
A wedding march from "Martha" was
finely executed on the piano.
	There were some remarks by W. O.
Clark, and allusions to the marriage which
had taken place fifty years before, men-
tioned his own persecutions in connection
with the Church in Missouri, and the driv-
ings from place to place, and spoke of his
travels in foreign countries, and how his
life had been preserved in the midst of
dangers by sea and by land, and the prom-
ises, that had been pronounced upon his
head in the early days were veri-
fied and his faith was firm in the Lord.
	President Woodruff spoke of the sacredness
of the marriage relation when the ceremony
had been performed in the house of the
Lord and was binding upon the parties for
time and for all eternity, and the blessings
it brought to all associated therewith and
bore a strong testimony of the Gospel be-
fore the people present. Related the cir-
cumstance of President Young coming into
the valley in his carriage, and told what
he said when he looked out upon the valley
below—alluded to the prophecies of Joseph
in earlier days and their literal fulfillment;
spoke of endowments given under the

[Column 3]
hands of Joseph the prophet, and stated
that he was the only man living now
who had received these holy ordinances un-
der the hands of Joseph Smith; gave some
items concerning the last testimony of the
prophet; he said to the audience you may
take every instance on record of any man,
you cannot find any such revelation as was
given to Joseph when only a boy; he called
the boys from the field, the plow, and the
shop, and the result is the Gospel has been
preached to the people in their own homes,
and they have gathered here; it was the
will of God we should come, the rich
treasures are hid up here and we are build-
ing Temples and the people go into them
and redeem the dead, it is the work of the
holy priesthood; Joseph Smith prophesied
of these things, of the Temples, that would
be built and the great work that would be
done. President Woodruff spoke of the
future the life beyond, said we can all go to
a kingdom such as we live for, when we
pass behind the vail we shall know; the
vail to him seemed very thin. We should
strive to do our duty and to do good to all
mankind, referred to many other things,
times and places.
	Supper was announced and about one
hundred and fifty people were seated at
once at the five tables arranged on the plat-
form, handsomely decorated with flowers
and loaded with the good things nature re-
quires for her sustenance besides delica-
cies of a great variety. The blessing was
pronounced by Brother Hiram Grant, and
after the banquet, expressions of good feel-
ing were given by many of those present.
James Smith Stevenson, Prof. J. M. Tanner,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, E. B. Wells and
the aged sister of Brother Clark, Rhoda
Cooper who sung a few verses and then re-
lated some of her experience in Far West,
Mo., when her house was burned by the
mob, and the people fled in the night by the
light of their burning homes. Brother
Nathan Porter who spoke immediately after
said he had been on a mission with Brother
Cooper in the Prophet's life time. After,
the guests had spoken the remainder of the
company sat down to the banquet and the
exercises in the hall were resumed.
	A poem was read by Ezra Robinson which
was a glowing tribute to the aged couple;
music by Mrs. Nellie Clark; Professor J.
M. Tanner paid a beautiful and eloquent
tribute to the pioneers. particularly to
President Woodruff, who had come into
this valley when there was no house and no
white man to be seen.
	President Woodruff followed Professor
Tanner with general remarks concerning
the settling of these vales, and spoke of
driving his carriage out on the block where
the Knutsford hotel is now located. Referred
to the growing public sentiment in our favor,
how wonderfully things had changed in the
last few years, and how forcibly these things
had come to his mind on the journey East
of the Tabernacle choir accompanied by the
First Presidency, when the company were re-
ceived with so much honor at all the points
en route; par[-]icularly had he been reminded
of the past Missouri experiences when in
St. Louis, and also at Independence, where
the people were received by the dignitaries
of the city, and in fact were given a perfect
ovation.
	In Chicago they were treated with the
greatest respect and shown every attention.
Many great men had visited the Presidency
here, and been greatly attracted by the pub-
lic buildings, especially the Temple and


[Column 1]
Tabernacle, which were the admiration of
people from abroad. Spoke of the recent
visit of the celebrated women, who had
spoken in the Tabernacle. His remarks
were exceedingly interesting to all, and
must have been to the people from a dis-
tance.
	A song by Lizzie Brown, with
piano accompaniment by Clara Leonard,
"Just fifty years ago to night." Recitation
(original.)

LUCY A. CLARK.
IN A GREEN and shady bower,
	Where the creeping ivy's twine
Flowers and mossy velvet carpet
	Is a picture grand, sublime.
'Neath the bower a form is seated,
	Manly, noble-browed and just
And beside a lovely maiden
	Greets his smile with fervent trust.
They are gazing on the future
	Loving hearts they both enfold,
Plighted vows they cast together
	In affection's sacred mold.
Close beside a bark is anchored,
	In a pure and sparkling stream,
In they step and from its moorings
	Float away on life's young dream.
On they float and every shadow 
	That apears upon the scene,
Vanishes before affection's
	Bright and glittering holy gleam.
Years pass by and still they're floating,
	And the vows they made in youth,
Have grown purer, dearer, stronger
	While they've labored for the truth.
Such devotion makes them happy,
	When they reach the golden shore,
Where bedecked with well-earned laurels
	They will dwell for ever more.

	President Hess spoke briefly of his mis-
sions and other experiences; his being
called to go in the Mormon Battalion; spoke
of the privations and hardships encountered
by the brethren who went in that company.
	Wm. O. Clark, of California, made a sort
of brief review of his life; mentioned seeing
Joseph and Hyrum in Clay County, Mis-
souri, when he came off a mission, and the
people were leaving Missouri and going
over into Iowa, pell mell. He told Joseph
then of Isaac and Abel Galland. One of
them owned 160 acres of land across the
Mississippi, in Commerce, which the people
could get on easy terms. Joseph said, "we
must go there and rest." The people went
and built up Nauvoo; referred to the time
when the Apostle, David Patten, was shot,
and his father imprisoned in Ray County,
Missouri. There were no charges against
him; his innocence was proven. Since
those days he had traveled in Europe, Asia,
Africa, East India and Japan. He had
been among the Buddhists. Father Smith
had placed his hands upon his head and
said, "You shall have the privilege of going
among the crowned heads of the world;" he
had been in two railroad smash ups and left
for dead; had the plague in Egypt, Cairo,
and had not expected to live, but he looked
in his Bible, and found courage; knew he
would recover; there were three hundred
foreigners there in despair, but he recov-
ered. On the sea he was at one time five
days and nights in darkness and storms;
the voice said to him, "You shall see home
in peace." Then I thought of this people-
the world will come to this people, and
when banks fail we shall have the world

[Column 2]
coming here. When I go back to the West
to wind up my affairs and come back, which
I must, I shall think of this place, and of
the boys here (Farmington,) where there is
no saloon."
	Elder Ezra T. Clark reviewed his past
life for the fifty years, and spoke of his suc-
cess in his family, and referred to his kin-
dred who had come long distances to be with
him on this occasion; his gratitude to them,
and his love for this people with whom he
was associated; said many good things that
were appreciated by all present.
	Sister Mary S. Clark spoke of her joy and
her happiness under all circumstances, be-
cause of the Gospel; of coming here among
the sagebrush, living in a log cabin, but the
Lord had blest them in their family; they
were all in the Church; all faithful and all
temperate; she rejoiced to see so many 
friends come from afar to do them honor,
and those who had come from the city, and
their neighbors; welcomed all. 
	Sister Rhoda Cooper, 85 years old, sang
the hymn, "Who is this faith one from the
wilderness traveling?"
	Sister Rhoda Douglas spoke much upon
faith and the powers of healing, related re-
markable instances, and exhorted the young
people to serve the Lord. A poem com-
posed for the occasion by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
was read by Sister E. B. Wells. A duet
was rendered by two of the young people
from California. The program was under
the direction of Edwin B. Clark, son of
Brother and Sister Clark, and was very well
carried out, there were about three hundred
people present. 
	There were twenty-one relatives from a
distance besides some from Idaho and dif-
ferent parts of Utah. The presents were
quite valuable, a large picture of the First
Presidency of the Church, handsome gilt
frame, was given by friends in Farmington,
the home of Brother and Sister Clark; a
handsome white French clock with gilt
ornaments from their children. From W.
O. Clark and wife, a gold ring and spectacles
for Sister Clark and gold headed cane for
Brother Clark. Rhoda Cooper, Santa Rosa,
gold belt buckle Sister Clark and gold
headed cane Brother Clark; handsome gold-
finish fruit dish Lewis Cooper and family
California, Geo. W. Clark and his Sister
Cora Gilbraith two silver cups gold lined. 
Jewel case Dr. and Mrs Ezra Clark Rich-
nut dish, silver and gold Dr. C. F. and Mrs.
Wilcox, salt set gold, in pale green plush and
silk case Mrs. G. A. Tupper Santa Rosa.
Mrs. H. O. Clark, San Francisco, gold tea
spoon engraved in bowl with Cliff House,
the handle California emblem the bear,
shovel and pan of gold, San Francisco in-
scribed on scroll—Nellie and Holly Clark,
souvenir spoons solid gold in filagree, work
engraved with the golden gate San Francis-
co, Miss Netta and Miss Nellie Richardson
California, desert spoon gold, handsomely
engraved; there were also other presents of
less value. The wedding cake which was
very elaborately decorated, was cut and
friends were permitted to take pieces home.
	Doxology was sung and the benediction
pronounced by Bishop Secrist and the wed-
ding guests separated, feeling the evening
had been an enjoyable one and long to be
remembered.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Men And Women a new paper has
been started in Utah, which promises fair
representation and discussion of all ques-
tions, and to favor home interests.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SCHOOL—The spring winds and showers
are over, and the freshness of the foliage is
beautiful to behold. The glorious month
of roses is upon us. The air is full of fra-
grance and music. Mingling with the love
notes of the birds and the fair opening of
the flowers are the parting songs of the
school children. The last few days have
come and the little hearts leap with joy at
the thought of a respite from stupid text-
books and the enjoyment of a long vacation.
And yet, does not every little child have
some regret? After all, with the bright an-
ticipations and the happy relief, there is the
sorrow of parting with a faithful, patient
teacher and loving little friends, parting,
perhaps, to meet no more, for who can tell
what changes the summer days may bring?
Some may leave for other climes, and some,
perhaps the great reaper may gather to his
fold. Alas! With all the sweet, the bitter
sure is found. Yet who does not enjoy
those last, warm, pleasant days, with the
preparations for a final day, when parents
and friends, and that august body—the
trustees—come to see us in holiday attire
and hear us sing and recite.
	It is now the time when the sweet girl
graduate plans some lovely gown, where
among the soft, graceful folds the roses and
carnations play hide and seek. Lovelier
than the flowers are the blushes of her face,
as she receives the gifts and congratulations
of her admiring friends. It is the time
when the brave youth recites his valedic-
tory, his countenance aglow with the sun-
shine of life and hope, and as we gaze, the
heart recalls the poet's words:
	“How beautiful is youth,
	How bright it gleams
	With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
	Book of beginnings, stories without end,
	Each maid a heroine
	And each man a friend.”
	School teachers—Speaking of graduates
brings back a question much conned. Why,
in these hard times, and while there is so
much talk about “home industry,” does
Utah need to send East for teachers? Are
the Eastern teachers superior to the Utah
teachers? I think not, and yet throughout
our public schools, to every Utah teacher,
there are three or four, or more, imported
teachers. Again, where does the imported
teacher spend his wages? (the people’s
taxes.) Does he spend them in Utah, or
does he, so far as possible, send East for
everything he can? When vacation comes
does he take his rest at the Utah resorts,
among her mountains and her lakes, or
does he not rather hie him to his Eastern
home to visit friends, and tell in glowing
colors his experiences among the “unculti-
vated westerners,” especially the “dreadful
Mormons?” To be sure, it is only the ex-
ception where some teacher has returned
home and published remarks very uncom-
plimentary, and in some cases, most absurd,
about the Mormon school children. Ar-
ticles extremely unkind, because they were
most untrue; but that such articles have
been published is true, for we have read
them and while Utah has a University,
with a large normal class, and a high
school with thorough teachers, and every
summer has many graduates, need we send
away for teachers for the district schools?
Are there any better teachers in the schools
now than those who are graduates from the
University? Do any of the Eastern men or


women excel Professors Kingsbury, Paul,
Toronto, Van Cott, all Utah men, Utah
born and bred? Have we ever had more
successful teachers in the district schools,
teachers more beloved by their pupils,
teachers with better discipline or more need-
ful knowledge, than Louisa A. Ashby,
Emma Wells, Rebecca Mantle, Augusta
Winters, Eliza Slade, May Wells, Keetie
Heywood, Lucy Stringam, and a host of
others I could name, but space forbids?
	Certainly not, and the young men and
young women of Utah are just as capable
now as ever, and our training schools ought
to be, and I believe are, equal to the East-
ern training schools. Why then should we
not keep our money at home, employ our
own people in this vocation? If a corpora-
tion should talk of sending East for labor to
build a smelter, or a railroad, or any great
undertaking, think of the furore it would
raise, how the workingmen would hold
mass meetings, and the people would pro-
test, and yet every year some hundred men
and women come here and teach in our
public schools. Personally they are well
liked, and their society is enjoyed, because,
of course, they are cultivated, refined and
in every way an ornament and a pleasure
to the city, as refinement and education al-
ways is, but do they make their homes per-
manently with us, and is it necessary to
have them? A school teacher is well paid,
salaries range from fifty to a hundred and
fifty dollars, a month. Does not three-
fourths of the wages of an Eastern teacher
go out of the Territory, while all of it
would remain if Utah teachers were em-
ployed? Besides, do these Eastern people
leave their homes and come West to teach,
for as small a wage as a Utah teacher would
accept, in other words do they not come
pretty high?
	This question may cause some discussion
but the people of Utah ought to insist on
Utah talent being employed as far as pos-
sible in the public schools’ I do not speak
ignorantly when I say I know the Utah
teachers are the equal of the Eastern teach-
ers. In a school near me a lady from
Michigan was employed, she had a small
school, an average attendance of fifteen
pupils tho’ over thirty were enrolled. Her
hours were from nine until half past two,
and she received sixty dollars a month; her
highest grade was the third reader and she
had only four or five scholars in that grade,
as soon as school closed she went back to
Michigan for the summer.
	She was a good teacher but no
better than dozens of Utah girls I
could mention, and I know they would
have been glad to have taken that school at
forty or even thirty dollars a month, and
spent it all in Utah besides. And for one,
a woman, a mother—a would-be voter I
declare for Utah teachers in Utah schools so
far as possible. Let a city employ its own
talent, cultivate its own people. Of course
where the Eastern teachers make Utah
their home, help to build her up, are tax-
payers, and are a part of us, why encourage
them by employment, we cannot have too
many of the cultured people among us, it is
only against those who come solely for our
money, and have their homes in other
states that I protest.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE Plan of Work Committee has com-
pleted the political educational system which
will soon be in the hands of those suffragists
who desire it.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Truly, "oratory is not argument, nor
rhetoric reason!" The reports of the
speeches for and against equal suffrage at
the Convention lie before me and have been
examined with the deepest care and anxiety.
When I learned that there would be serious
opposition I expected that opposing cham-
pions would arm themselves with a com-
prehension of the subject and that their ar-
guments would be well-nigh unanswerable,
never dreaming that we should only have a
re-hash of the old ignorant prejudices and
bug-bears connected with the proper atten-
tion of women to the creature comforts of
their families, and the wreck of homes. I am
once more reminded practically of what
Geo. W. Cable once said: "I have never
seen an argument against woman suffrage
that was not flimsy. Men are much dis-
posed to exaggerate the difficulties of voting
intelligently when they talk of women
voting. By the time a public question is
ready for the popular vote it has become a
very simple question that requires little
more than honesty and common sense to
vote upon it. If our mothers are not fit to
vote they ought to stop bearing sons."
	The only one of the opposition one would
deign to run a tilt with is the redoubtable
hero (?) "from Davis."
	And as the "gentleman from Davis" was
so lionized we must examine his arguments
and ascertain what they are worth. Argu-
ment! Oratory there may have been to such
as sat under the spell of his voice. But
logic! Argument! Are they not mainly
conspicuous by absence? In his last speech
he throws a withering disdain upon the
poet as if he were quite too weak and
"soulful" to appreciate the majestic flights
of the orator. He, too, is magnanimous!
He is "in earnest—terribly in earnest"—
and for what? A threadbare, ragged, worn
out prejudice, or the music and tinkling
symbols of his voice? It would have been
more to his honor had he been armed with
something of the 'logic, philosophy and in-
cisiveness" he so bitterly mocked.
	But behold the terrible forces which he
has marshaled to the contest! And, especi-
ally, forget not the dramatic courage of a
hero digging his political grave in defense
of wrong and oppression! Ah, he was tre-
mendously in earnest about that grave, but
he was not without strong faith that he
should dump the majority of the Conven-
tion into its gloomy depth before himself,
and then, having killed the dragon "that
had risen from the ashes of the past to
plague them," and having scattered the
dragon's teeth by mighty oratory, he no
doubt hoped to see the armed giants rising
up out of the earth, terrible as an army
with banners to scare away the Tyrians
(the women) and follow him as their leader
to the erection of Thebes or the monument
of man, sole, unquestioned monarchy in
government. The poet! Heaven's blessing
rest ever upon him as the faithful, prophetic
watcher on the tower, catching the first
dim ray of advancing truth; and the orator,
if he were but careful, too, to "sharpen his
arrows in the silent surroundings of his
private study" that he might be armed
with thought, and if sincere prayer for
right enlightened his soul with truth, we
would not quarrel with his calling, either.
But when it becomes mere music to catch
the ovations of the multitude we are re-
minded of another poet who, after all, be-
ing but a poet, and a "poor, blind old

[Column 2]
schoolmaster" to boot," is perhaps beneath
the attention of a Demosthenes.
	This, too, may be "soulful," but, any-
way, he is bold enough to put it into the
mouth of the greatest of all earthly poets,
philosophers, philanthropists and orators
combined:
"For what is glory but the blaze of fame,
The people's praise, if always praise unmixt?
And what the people but a herd confused,
A miscellaneous rabble, who extol
Things vulgar and, well-weighed, scarce worth
	the praise?
They praise and they admire they know not what
And know not whom, but as one leads the other;
And what delight to be by such extolled?
To live upon their tongues and be their talk,
Of whom to be dispraised were no small praise?"
	As there are certainly no stars in my po-
litical horizon to be blotted out, if there be
political pabulum in this quotation, why,
"make the best of it!"
	Three speeches of upward of an hour
each, and yet the seeking after a real pearl
of thought throughout the whole mass of
rubbish is like the proverbial seeking for a
"needle in a straw stack!" Perhaps, how-
ever, in her cry for logic woman is but giv-
ing another proof of her "incapacity for in-
dependent" research as well as action, and
adding thereunto a flagrant proof of her
lack of intellect by her inability to duly ap-
preciate a flight of oratory for its sheer
music. Something in the poet's fix, you
know. But the most hardened orator would
not refuse her just a little sip, even though
God and nature, man and prehistoric cus-
tom, render her, by birth, quite incompe-
tent to drink deeply at the Pierian spring of
logic or oratory.
	First, then, we are confronted with the
chivalrous (?) assertion that we are really
not capable of exercising the franchis[-], that
the hearth must limit all our aspirations,
that women are sweet and pure and whole-
some around the fireside alone, and this
complemented by the proverbial curse of
Eve. Paul, too, is quoted, and we do not
see why he did not go on and quote Paul,
bidding us stay at home and learn of our
husbands, etc. Admitting Paul's fervent
zeal and matchless logic, we still hold that
the customs of his times in regard to women
will scarcely "wash" in our nineteenth
century, even making allowance for nine-
teenth century self-conceit and presumption.
	Then in regard to Eve's curse: Is it not
amusing, would it not be really laughable
were it not used as such a potent weapon
against us by cruel hands, to see how glibly
men can quote: Her desire shall be unto
her husband and he shall rule over her. If
you counter quote: So God created man in
His own image; male and female created
He them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
THEM, be fruitful, and multiply, and re
plenish the earth, and subdue it and HAVE
DOMINION, etc. They are not posted,
"not well up in the Bible anyway, you
know, never was very religious at best.
Don't take much stock in religion, you
see." Ah, no, plenty of them that "take
no stock in religion," except to remind
women of the curse of mother Eve—their
religion becomes quite eloquent then.
	Then if it be a curse would it not be more
in accord with the chivalry, justice, right-
eousness of a true manhood to ameliorate
and lighten so sweeping a degradation?
Adam's curse was to earn his bread by the
sweat of his brow. Does even our hero
"from Davis" object to a man’s accumula-
tion of sufficient wealth to make others do


[Column 1]
the toilsome sweating? And if a wife and
mother does the sweating over somebody’s
washing to help earn the daily bread while
the appointed toiler shirks his part and
lounges around polling booths or street cor-
ners discussing politics or woman’s rights
with cultured intelligence and profound
forethought (!) who would be so bold as to
proclaim that he is evading the law, dis-
torting the designs of his Creator, unsexing
himself, endangering the peace and comfort
of the home? Ah, no, woman must have
her rights; her rights to bear children in
sorrow and to rear them in like manner;
to yield gently, willingly to the rule of her
husband, to keep dutifully within the sphere
which he may limit and, in addition, bear a
heavy share of his burden beside. His
sphere who shall limit; his actions who
shall criticise; his unerring judgment who
shall question?
	Poor woman! There is danger to society,
to the home, to the children, if she be
trained to think; if her mind should wan-
der beyond her care of socks and buttons
and puddings, beyond fashion and the tire-
some dulness of conventional society.
Danger to society if she should be given a
personal incentive to study anything but
fashion and housekeeping. She may study
government for the sake of her influence
over male relatives, but it must be purely
from such feminine standpoint—not with
any hope of casting a personal vote for what
she may feel in her soul to be right. Influ-
ence! If her influence is of any use, or if it
can be admitted what is the danger of her
personal ballot with it? But that would be
unwomanly, and some one else might have
to rock the cradle or hold the baby while
she cast it. There is danger to society if
she gain a little ascendancy over her ages
and ages of subordination and oppression;
if, by giving her the ballot, whereby she
could help protect herself and the interests
of her fireside, she should gain a little self-
respect and command the respect of her
brother who knows too well, and does not
always forget to remind her, that she may
have ever so earnest and anxious convic-
tions, when he goes to the polls any value-
less son of Adam so long as he can stagger
there if it be in a drunken stupor, is worth
more than the whole union of intelligent
womanhood.
	Canaan fell under the heavy curse of ser-
vitude in the tents of his brethren, but the
intelligence of the age has seen fit to de-
clare that he has served long enough, and
that emancipation was but his human right.
But woman must never be emancipated
from the curse of Eve! All classes may rise
higher and higher toward the golden age of
perfection, attainment and power, but her
inferiority is a patent truth, “briefly and
forcibly expressed.” Adam still never for-
gets to make grimaces at her from behind
the tree and to remind her that “the woman,
she gave it me and I did eat.” “Though
at first so ready to yield to the tempter, she
has ever since been so ready to yield to the
voice of God” that even Mr. Roberts ac-
knowledges her, man’s moral superior. But
no faithfulness, no self-abnegation, no in-
tellectual attainment in her can ever satisfy
the demands of justice or lift her beyond
“the great truth” that she is a mentally in-
ferior creature, without inherent right to
rule herself or to consent to the laws which
she will be compelled to obey.
	Mr. Roberts forestalls opinions as to his
coldness or tyranny by referring to his life
of which he great public knows nothing

[Column 2]
and cares less. It is quite sufficient that
his doctrines confirm men in tyranny and
imagined superiority and while his wife
may sit in “pleasant places,” complacently
indifferent to the great heart-throbbing of
the wcrld beyond the narrow circle of her
daily life, it is not every woman who is so
fortunately situated, nor is Mr. R., with
all his wisdom, wise enough to predict just
how his nearest and dearest may end their
days. Personalities, however, cut no figure
in the clash and battle of ideas. We are
only seeking for the truth deep in the heart
of creation, and a narrow application of
God’s curse of Eve is neither manly, just or
chivalrous.
“Ah, I doubt not thro.’ the ages one increasing
	purpose runs
And the thoughts of men are widened with the
	process of the suns.
Not in vain the distance beckons. Forward, for-
	ward let us range,
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	grooves of change.
Thro.’ the shadow of the globe we sweep into the
	younger day;
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of
	Cathay!”
Shall not women share the progress, the
advancement toward “the parliament of
man, the federation of the world,” when
“The common sense of most shall hold a fretful
	world in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in uni-
	versal law?”
Shall we forget that “all those who re-
ceive ray Gospel are sous and daughters in
my kingdom?” Shall we be bound by the
narrow sphere of home alone when we re-
member Mary, who was so sweetly com-
mended by Christ, for having chosen the
better part? Shall we forget the equality
which he declared between the sexes in ex-
pounding the marriage law? Or shall we
shrink into our narrow round of domestic
drudgery and leave man sole proprietor of
the ennobling studies of government and the
exalting comprehension of the works of
creation in the “fairy tales of science,” be-
cause, forsooth, he has an inherent right to
prescribe what we shall or shall not do?
	With what solicitous love and passion
Mr. Roberts warns men to pray before they
admit the demon of politics to their firesides,
and how he pleads that women will with-
draw their senseless, unrighteous demands!
Woman suffrage may be a new idea to him
we should judge it to be so but it is not so
to all women, and Mr. Roberts must offer
us something better than past political his-
tory, made by men alone, before we can
accede to his anxious request. Then,
“eliminate politics from the fireside!” Per-
haps it, too, was merely music, but we
have often been consoled for our lack of the
reality by an offering of the ghost in this
shape or something similar: “Today God
has thrust responsibility upon every man
and woman; every man to know how to
vote, and every woman to see that he votes
right!” Use your influence, woman! Every
woman’s influence is a power! In a conver-
sation a day or two ago a gentleman asked
a lady of what political complexion she
was? “Why should I care to know?”
she asked, innocently, “it matters not on
election day it doesn’t count I have no in-
centive to that kind of study.” “Oh, but
your boys, your boys!” he replied, “you
should teach them!” Ah, indeed! Then
what about the fireside? Then Mr. Rob-
erts fairly raises the hair of our heads on
end with a cry of "Danger to our homes!"

[Column 3]
Now, what under the sun, is the danger?
Will not a little time given to the study of
government or politics be more bracing in
every way than general novel reading, and
is it not quite as fitting to a sensible human
being of either sex? Mr. Roberts knows
by experience, perhaps, or, at least, the
present writer does, that while the average         
novel is enervating both to body and mind,
the vigorous prosecution of science is invig-
orating, and we rise from its study with a
joy, a mental tone and vigor that gives also
tone to the body and elasticity in manual
pursuits. But, alas! Government and
science are unfeminine; novel reading is in
better taste. And no one will call in ques-
tion the tardiness of tea, disorder of the
kitchen, neglect of children or general good-
for-nothingness, if only Madam is not lit-
erary, scientific, or a defender of woman’s
rights. The poet again: Our Whittier
said: “I am not afraid that men will be-
come less manly or women less womanly
by giving suffrage to women.” And as to
divorces, the “test of the pudding is in the
eating,” and Wyoming, (oh, that I might
say New York, Mr. Roberts, but I cannot,)
declares that their register of divorces is
less in proportion to population than that
of any other State. The nature of men and
women cannot be changed by the ballot.
True to that nature, they unite in the home
as in politics, one complementing the other,
subduing, assisting, fulfilling, completing
what neither can do alone—what neither
was ever intended to do alone. Helpmeet,
companion, queen in the home, as he is
king, with superiority to neither, God de-
signed that companionship, that bearing of
one another’s burdens, sharers of each
other’s fortunes, for no narrow sphere.
	But why do we want the ballot? That is
too big a question to be answered in a news-
paper article. One reason is that we feel
politically degraded. Franklin said that to
be unenfranchised was to be in political
slavery. When the Government
wanted to punish Jefferson Davis for rebel-
lion they simply disfranchised him. We
have to endure taxation without represent-
ation, whereas the meanest transient of the
correct gender can vote for the disposal of
taxes women have to pay. We are a part of
the people who are amenable to the coun-
try’s laws, but we have no voice in those
laws; though governed we have no power
of consent. Woman’s claims to the right
of suffrage cannot be less inherent than that
of mans.
	We consider that government of a
people is as the government of a fam-
ly, but on a large scale, and believe that
the moral and intellectual counsel of women
through the ballot can be no danger, but of
incalculable value; and, further, as we are
equally interested in free trade or contra-
wise, in the licensing of various evils, in
taxation—in a word, since we are in reality
a part of the people, suffering in the adver-
sity of the country, glad in its prosperity,
anxious for its morals, proud of its honors,
sharers of its burdens, we demand the ballot
as a right through which to express our
will for all mutual good; and, above all
things for the good, the moral protection,
the education, the happiness of our chil-
dren—the very thing to which the most
radical anti-suffragist would point as our
first and greatest duty.
	Mr. Roberts rather likes the saying of
Luther (we presume he means St. Augus-
tine,) about the rib of Adam from which
God made Eve, that he might protect her


Let us try an interpretation of the rib, if
it were meant for a symbol, with a little
independent originality, begging pardon of
the great Roberts, and the greater Luther.
May we not read an equality in the glorious
symbol, a side by side companionship, an
“I am king and thou my sister queen,” (for
God bade them have dominion.) Indeed,
we would ask Mr. R. to go back and read
Augustine clearer, and not mislead himself
and others by a part, only, of the text.
	His “glowing apostrophe to woman,”
was no doubt worthy of a knight of chiv-
alry; but we have outgrown the Middle
Ages, thank heaven, and women to whom
the Creator has given brains for independent
thought and desire for independent action,
are but poorly satisfied with ever so liberal
a dose of “taffy” when they are asking for
a little substantial bread and meat. Our
darling poet’s apostrophe to woman’s right
to progress through the willing hand of
God’s providence and love, was a far
sweeter aud wholesomer morsel than a worn
out rag of ignorant chivalry. What a
broader, better, truer knighthood do we
recognize in our intelligent poet! How
truly “the highest peak of all.”
	Mr. Roberts does not deny our right to
education, our moral superiority, or our in-
fluence for purity and goodness. Well,
that was kind. But, really, education
makes us feel, more and more, the galling
bonds of political bondage; moral superior-
ty, it seems, can never compensate our first
unfortunate mistake in Eden, and our in-
fluence, however great and good and pure,
must be so shackled that our little sons
learn early to regard us with contempt,
(the most unkindest cut of all)! Must be
confined within such narrow limits to be
duly feminine, that we, who have felt and
found the shackles galling, (mothers,
wives are we, with women’s tender hearts),
would almost exclaim: Remove education,
give us the convent veil or the retirement
of the Turkish slave-wife, for with our
wider vision the load becomes too heavy,
and your praises seem but airy conceits, or
insults that sink too deep.
	His figure of the confluence of the Mis-
souri and Mississippi with but an ocean to
rest in, might not be inaptly put in another
way. Political power has so long been ex-
ercised by man alone, unchecked by wo-
man’s higher moral sense, until, so full of
moral filth, it has become like the great
Hoang Ho which, depositing its silt in its
bed as it flows, it rises higher and higher
until at length no hand can stay its violent
outburst to the utter destruction of a prov-
ince with its millions and millions of hu-
man lives. So our governments, defiled by
their own corruptions, break out in strikes
and insurrections, revolutions, wars—civil
and otherwise. Admit a purer stream to
make the filthy one less turbid, and the
catastrophe would at least occur at more
widely separate periods.
RUBY LAMONT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EVENTS IN THE LIFE OF ELIZA
ROLLINSON.
	I was born September 13th 1824, was
raised very strictly in the Church of Eng-
land, of which I was a member until I was
old enough to think for myself. When I
was old enough to understand things as
they were I was not satisfied with what I
was being taught, but always prayed, from
my childhood up, feeling that there was a

[Column 2]
God who could hear and answer the prayers
of those who had faith in Him.
	I had read much in the Bible and won-
dered often what I could do to gain that
peace which the world could neither give
nor take away. I prayed many years for
this and searched for it among the churches,
but could not find it.
	In August, 1846 I was left a widow with
two small children, and had the asthma
very bad; was also troubled with fits. I
suffered fifty-one months, went to many
physicians but could get no relief; they
said I must go to the Great Physician as he
only could cure me. My answer to one of
them was: "Doctor, do you think I am
going to die and leave my little babes? No!
the Lord will not allow that.” I suffered
on but in answer to my prayers my life was
spared and I had power given to me to
obtain a living and had friends raised up to
me in times of need.
	One after another would say, “Come to
meeting.” I went, but could hear nothing
but “Believe and be saved.” I read my
Bible and prayed earnestly that I might re-
ceive an understanding of the same, where-
by I might obtain that which I had desired
so long.
	In the spring of 1851 an Elder of the
Church at West Bromwich, England, was
moved upon to send me a few copies of the
“Millennial Star.” He had never seen me
previous to this time. I read them over
and through the Spirit of the Lord which I
had prayed so long for, my understanding
was opened and I received much light and
knowledge.
	I attended an Easter sociable in company
with members of the Church and had a
time of rejoicing and was further enabled to
investigate the principles of the Gospel.
While doing so my deceased husband ap-
peared to me, smiled, spoke to me three
times, and departed, satisfying me that he
was pleased with the course I had taken. I
went to meeting regularly and saw a man
who for eight weeks had walked on crutches;
he was administered to by those holding
authority and was promised by them that
he should leave his crutches and walk
home. This he did. He bore a testimony
to the truth of the work and that God had
through His servants cured him. This
encouraged and increased my faith, and I
prayed three times each day that He might
cure me as he had that man, and I promised
that I would praise His name as long as He
would permit me to live. I heard of the
gift of tongues, and fasted and prayed that
I might witness the same at the Wednesday
meeting. I went and received answer to
my prayer to my satisfaction as part of the
interpretation was for me. “Unto you who
are not of this Church, thus saith the
Spirit of the Lord, if ye have faith and re-
pent of your sins, arise and be baptized in
the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the
remission of the same and you will receive
the desire of your heart in righteousness,
and be healed of all your infirmities.
	Two days later I went into the water and
was baptized and heard a voice say, “My
yoke is easy, my burden light.” I left my
affliction in the water and from that day to
this I have had no fits. I can testify that
I was healed by the power of God; I knov
that He lives and that He sent a prophet in
this age and that the sick are healed if
they have faith in Him. I have seen many
things to confirm me in the faith and stimu-
late me onward. I pray that I may be

[Column 3]
humble, and faithful to what I know to be
true. Let others do as they will my desire
is to serve God and keep His holy Com-
mandments; then I know he will give me
all I desire in the end for I know He is
holy, just and true. “Glory, honor, praise,
and power be unto the Lamb forever.”


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO.
	MINUTES of W. S. A. held April 16th,
1895, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Presi-
dent E. B. Ferguson in the chair Prayer
by Julia Druce. Roll called, minutes read
and approved. Dr. Ferguson referred to
the suffrage question now before the Con-
stitutional Convention, we shall have to
work hard, because the opposition is deter-
mined to win if possible, if the matter of
petition would settle the question, we should
have gained the day, because ours out-num-
bers their’s by thousands; many have gone
around with the petitions and just asked if
they were in favor of suffrage and by that
means got names that wanted it in the Con-
stitution, but did not know there were two
petitions. E. M. Price was anxious that ,
we establish a class. E. J. MacFarlane
moved that we get the books needed out of
the treasury, carried.
	Dr. Ferguson thought the first book
should be the Constitution of the United
States, we can spend many afternoons on
that. E. J. MacFarlane referred to the
new laws that are being prepared, Dr. Fer-
guson said the laws we have now are the
old English laws and were the work of a
woman. King Alfred was the first to com-
pile them and he named them after her.
Adjourned for two weeks. Benediction, E.
J. MacFarlane.

	Minutes of meeting held April 30th,
President E. B. Ferguson in the chair, a
short informal meeting was held, announce-
ments made of the coming Suffrage Confer-
ence; and business matters arranged.
Benediction by M. P. Silver.


Excursion to Provo,
JUNE 18, 19 & 20,
Via UNION PACIFIC,
On above dates Union Pacific
will sell round trip tickets
to Provo at $1.90, good
for return until June
22nd, 1895.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
