VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER I, AND 15, 1895.		No. 11-12.


CONTENTS:
In Rural Englnnd—A Story. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. R. S. Report—
Laura J. M. Petersen 	Colorado Woman’s Greet-
ing—Theodosia G. Ammons. Convention N. A.
W. S. A. Notes And News. Miscellaneous.
Honor To a Noted Woman—Secretary W. S. A.
Farmington. Mrs. Emma Bull. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—The New State. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. Forty Years Married. Eugene Field.
	POETRY:—We Are The Music-Makers—A. O. S.
“For And In Behalf.”


WE ARE THE MUSIC MAKERS.

WE are the music-makers,
	And we are the dreamers of dreams,
Wandering by lone sea-breakers, 
	And sitting by desolate streams;
World-losers and world-forsakers, 
	On whom the pale moon gleams;
Yet we are the movers and shakers
	Of the world forever, it seems.

With wonderful deathless ditties
We build at the world’s great cities,
	And out of a fabulous story
	We fashion an empire’s glory:
One man with a dream, at pleasure,
	Shall go forth and conquer a crown;
And three with a new song’s measure
	Can trample a kingdom down.

We, in the ages lying
	In the buried past of the earth,
Build Nineveh with our singing,
	And Babel itself in our mirth;
And o’erthrow them with prophesying 
	To the Old and the New World’s worth;
For each age is a dream that is dying,
	Or one that is coming to birth.

A breath of our inspiration 
Is the life of each generation;
	A wondrous thing of our dreaming,
	Unearthly, impossible seeming—
The soldier, the king and the peasant
	Are working together in one,
Till our dream shall become their present,
	And their work in the world be done.

They had no vision amazing
Of the goodly house they are raising;
	They had no divine foreshowing
	Of the land to which they are going:
But on one man’s soul it hath broken,
	A light that doth not depart;
And his look, or a word he hath spoken,
	Wrought flame in another man’s heart.

And therefore to-day is thrilling
With a past day’s late fulfilling;
	And the multitudes are enlisted
	In the faith that their fathers resisted,
And, scorning the dream of to-morrow,
	Are bringing to pass, as they may,
In the world, for its joy or its sorrow,
	The dream that was scorned yesterday.

But we, with our dreaming and singing,
	Ceaseless and sorrowless we!
The glory about us clinging
	Of the glorious futures we see,
Our souls with high music ringing:
	O men! it must ever be
That we dwell in our dreaming and singing,
	A little apart from ye;

[COLUMN 2]
For we are afar with the dawning
	And the suns that are not yet high, 
And out of the infinite morning
	Intrepid you hear us cry—
How, spite of your human scorning,
	Once more God’s future draws nigh,
And already goes forth the warning
	That ye of the past must die.

Great hail! we cry to the comers
	From the dazzling unknown shore;
Bring us hither your sun and your summers,
	And renew our world as of yore;
You shall teach us your song’s new numbers;
	And things that we dreamed not before:
Yea, in spite of a dreamer who slumbers,
	And a singer who sings no more.
							A. O. S.


[column 1]
		IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XLIX.
	AS might be expected Conway Bland
passed his examinations, difficult though
they were, for his training had been
thorough, and entered the University with
good expectations of success while Sidney
Barrington was still in England, looking
after legal matters, and trying to induce
young Walton to return with him to
America, or to enter one of the colleges and
fit himself for some sort of life-work; but
he had a decided preference for sporting, and
being handsome and fascinating, and meet-
ing with men who were of like propensities,
he was won over by them to accept invita-
tions, to go here and there, and would not
listen to Mr. Barrington’s persuasions, not
even though his sister and aunt, plead with
him by letter, not to remain longer away
from them. His step-mother was anxious
too that he should leave England, she
dreaded the responsibility, and also the ex-
pense; she had found him rather un-
scrupulous, and knowing the kind of com-
pany he was keeping, she added her en-
treaties to those of Sidney Barrington, to
induce him to break his engagements and go
to his own kindred. All to no purpose, he
determined to take his own course.
	Sidney dreaded to go without him, feel-
ing sure Mrs. Harrison would be disap-
pointed, but he was compelled to do so
nevertheless, as his stay had already been
greatly prolonged. Mrs. Harrison grieved
over Edward deeply, and sometimes felt she
must go to him, and see what her presence
would do. He seldom answered the loving
and tender letters from home, so absorbed
was he in the gaieties of the fashionable
world he found ready to welcome him.
Through the influence of unprincipled men
he obtained possession of much of the
property, which rightfully belonged to his
cousin Edward Hilliard, and afterwards
managed to defraud them all sufficiently to
live at the old castle, and later on, years
after, at the death of Lady Walton, he came
into possession of Walton Hall, so that he
was master of two estates, (such as they
were.) He kept up gay bachelor’s apart-
ments, and was not given to spending
money in any legitimate way.

[column 2]
	After a few years Conway graduated-
with the highest honors and sailed for home;
he did not even make an attempt to see
Edward Walton, nor did he know of his
disgraceful doings.
	Conway’s return was hailed with joy by
all the friends of the family, and the mother
though happy and proud of the handsome
and accomplished young Doctor, from
whom she had been so long separated, yet
could not but treat him still as her boy, and
soon found an opportunity to inquire what
he meant to do in the future.
	“Why, mother I intend to practice my
profession right here at home, among those
who have always known me, and who,
many of them, knew my father’s reputation,
by tradition, at least, and in due time I
shall marry, with your consent, my cousin
Anna, whom I have loved all my life, and
who returns my affection after her own shy
fashion, but does not know it is more than
cousinly.’’
	“My boy, how happy it makes me to
know you are satisfied with your surround-
ings here, and are content to build up a
practice where you can do so much good in
an unostentatious way; so like your father,
and I know he would approve your course;
but for Anna I cannot agree with you—it
seems to me you are over-confident—Anna
knows nothing whatever of men, she is en-
tirely unsophisticated, and you, my boy,
have been out in the great world, mingling
with men of science and skilled in all sorts
of arts; we hardly know, as yet, how
suitable you would be for a husband—and
Anna is innocence itself, beware how you
approach her upon any matter of the heart,
she could not understand you, you must be
as discreet with her, and as cautious, as you
would be in handling the most delicate and
sharpest instrument known in your profes-
sion.”
	“Do you, my own mother, into whose
bosom I have poured all my childish sor-
rows and disappointments, do you doubt
my honor, or my discretion? You of all
women in the world, who have had such an
extraordinary experience with men, and
been their adviser, their arbitrator in a way,
think of Sir Edward (my great grand-
uncle,) no other woman, I have been told,
could do what you were able to—and to no
other woman did he open his heart, as he
did to you—when you were only a girl.”
	“To be sure Conway, my dear boy, I
have had great experience, mostly with
men, I know less of women, not having
been brought into close association with
many, except my cousin Anna, who was
not like other women, I’m quite sure of
that—but what can that have to do with
you, and Anna; you must wait—you must
not mention the subject of love or marriage
to her, establish yourself in your practice
and see what follows; believe me, at my
age, I know best what is right and proper.”
	Conway Bland was never so dissatisfied
before, he had come home with his mind
fully made up to ask his cousin Anna to be
his wife, and had not dreamed of any
hindrance, and especially from his mother;
she was not his own cousin, he had thought


[Column 1]
the matter all out—his mother could not
object on the plea of relationship, the one
dread he had while away was, that Edward
Hilliard should be in love with her—as he
fancied every man must be, who knew her,
but soon after coming home, he had noticed
them, and felt satisfied they were only like
cousins—while he could scarcely rest out of
her sight,and he believed she felt as he did,
for her face would light up momentarily
when he came near.
	And sure enough it was true, she scarcely
knew it, and yet she felt he was all the
world to her—she almost ceased to think of
her brother, whom she had loved with all
a sister’s pride. Mrs. Harrison had taken
great care and pains with Anna as well as
her own daughter Clarice and the two
girls were beautiful and gifted, like and un-
like, in many respects. They had been
watched and guarded almost too much,
their education had been altogether under
Mrs. Harrison’s supervision, and Sidney
Barrington had instilled such religious
principles as were calculated to help them
bear life’s ills with patience and resignation,
if they were not too many, and too terrible
In fact they were well equipped for young
ladies of that period, with prospective for-
tunes. Clarice like her father possessed
wonderful conversational qualities, Anna
was more reticent, neither of them had the
great strength of character of Jane Con-
way—but both were dazzlingly beautiful,
and seemingly unaware of the fact.
Clarice though much younger scarcely
seemed so, having developed womanly
traits earlier, and being what is termed
old-fashioned’, in her ways and manner,
it was she who first discovered Anna’s
secret.
	“Mamma,’’she said, in her childish way,
one day when Anna and Conway were out
riding, “Anna is in love with my brother
and if you don’t approve you’d better look
into it—I’ve seen it ever since he came
home, she has no thought for any one but
him, and she is growing very distant with
me, I wish you would speak to her about it,
I’m quite sure its time.”
	Mrs. Harrison looked surprised and in-
quired, “since you are so wise, my dear,
and can see so clearly into people’s affairs,
what do you propose your mamma should
say to these young people? Am I to go
and accuse them of being in love on your
authority?”
	“If you don’t speak I shall tell my
brother it is time he spoke to you about his
doings with Anna—I should not be allowed
to go here and there and everywhere with
a young man as she does, Conway himself
would soon say it was not proper, why they
sit every morning in the drawing-room,
when you are busy, and actually doing
nothing, Anna never reads now, she never
goes out unless he is with her.” And at
the moment here they came and Clarice who
was too impulsive to be discreet burst out
with, “Dr. Conway I’ve been telling
mamma about you and Anna and that she
ought to separate you two for reasons,
and—” “And for what reasons?” Inter-
rupted her brother, while Anna almost
fainting with alarm, sank down on
a chair and burst into tears. “And now
little sister as you seem to know what ought
to be, I’ll make a clean breast of it, and
tell you my mind, I am in love with Anna,
and have told her so this very morning,
and only death can divide us. Now what
are you going to say about that, we came

[Column 2]
in to ask, mamma’s consent, and yours
later on, but as you have taken the affair
up and pronounced judgment—we will
listen to you first, if mamma is willing.”
	Taken completely by surprise Mrs. Har-
rison was unable to speak for a few
moments, but Clarice did not lose her
presence of mind for a minute, and with
her characteristic, girlish assurance and free-
dom of speech, opened her mind much to
Anna’s discomfort, “Well Dr. Conway since
you are in love with Anna its all right,
what I was afraid of was, that you were
not, and that she was bestowing her af-
fections upon one, who loved his profession
more than he loved a beautiful woman.”
It was vain for the Doctor to try to restrain
Clarice, she knew more about love or
fancied she did than either one of the family;
and her mother was so surprised, both at
the torrent of feeling displayed by her little
daughter, and the sudden denoument of
her son and Anna Walton, that she was
speechless.
	Her cousin Anna's escapades flashed into
her mind and she recalled the impetuosity
of her disposition, and though little Anna
had never betrayed such violent emotions,
yet her aunt inwardly trembled, and con-
cluded the best course would be to allow
these young people to have their own way.
Very little was said except consent given,
and preparations were soon in progress for
the proposed marriage. Everything was
done in a simple way, though Mrs. Har-
rison knew how to make the best of all
their belongings, and the bride was not
lacking in elegant laces, pearls and jewelry,
left by her mother, which had been put
away carefully until Anna could appreciate
them. Clarice interested herself even more
than the bride in the wedding apparel, and
the young Doctor and his cousin Edward
as well as uncle Sidney, busied themselves
with the new dwelling place.
	During the weeks previous to the wed-
ding when all the household were very
busy, or at night when others were asleep,
Mrs. Harrison reasoned with herself on the
matter, and queried whether she had been
the true mother to these two young girls,
whose lives and ways were a perfect
mystery to her, though associated with
them daily from their infancy; in her cousin
Anna’s case the French maids and gover-
nesses had been blamed, Sir. Edward’s
neglect of his daughter had been a factor
considered in her waywardness, she had
grown up under peculiar circumstances and
influences, but where was the lack in the
case of Anna Walton? And was it not
likely that Clarice might also fall desperate-
ly in love, even now her affections might
unconsciously be straying from her own
mother, and Mrs. Harrison shuddered as
she reflected what that would mean.
	“Afterall I do not understand women,
nor the potent power of love in the hearts
of the young, I blamed uncle Edward for
not knowing womens’ natures better and
here am I, at my time of life a woman too
who has made a study of the subject, and
find myself outwitted by my own child-
ren;” ’twas thus Mrs. Harrison soliloquized,
and there was no one to whom she could
look for sympathy or advice. Yes there
was Sidney, but he could not know any-
thing of young people’s affairs especially
women, and she thought of his barren life,
and in her heart she pitied his loneliness,
how was it she had never thought of it be-
fore, she said to herself, “he has given his

[Column 3]
life to help others, mine, my loved ones,”
she repeated aloud, “unselfishly without,
hope of reward what grandeur of senti-
ment,” and she began to feel somewhat of
a culprit to have received so much at his
hands, and made no return. No she would
not trouble him with her feelings, she
would be more watchful now of Clarice,
and of Edward who was as refined and
delicate as a girl,and who inclined to moods,
musical and gay at times, despondent and
melancholy by fits and starts.
	The marriage of Conway Bland and
Anna Walton was duly solemnized in the 
Church near by, Sidney Barrington
officiating in the simple orthodox
ceremony. It was very sad for Mrs.
Harrison, but she bore up bravely and
only the few intimate friends who witnessed
the ceremony were bidden to the feast which
had been prepared. How unlike the
elaborate wedding of Anna’s mother; there
was no wedding journey, for these people
conformed to the Puritan ways and
methods they went quietly to their own
home and passed their honey-moon in visit-
ing the sick and comforting with gentle
words and glad hearts, and with such
delicacies as were available, the afflicted
ones who felt their presence almost a bene-
diction. But while their lives swept on
peacefully, Mrs. Harrison was tortured
with anxiety and misgivings. Clarice was
wilful and outspoken, singularly gifted too
in some respects, and always longing for
the unattainable; every now and then her
mother was obliged to succumb to some
ridiculous whim, or fancy; and each time
she resolved to be stronger in the future;
she who had controlled the obstinate
Baronet, could not cope with her own
daughter, do what she would.
	It is said truly there are none so blind as
those who will not see, and though a serious
love affair was going on in her home, Mrs.
Harrison was ignorant of the fact. Sidney
Barrington wasin the confidence of Edward
Hilliard and the boy opened his heart to
the minister who had been his tutor for so
many years. “You know I’m alone in the
world” he said, “for though Aunt Jane is
like a mother to me in one sense, yet she is
not my mother, nor do I know the true
meaning of either father or mother, some-
times I feel I must go away where I shall
not trouble anyone, and brood over my sor-
rows, and yet uncle Sidney I cannot bring
myself to say farewell to Clarice. I am
sure her mother will never consent to our
union and I have not even dared to tell her
of my love; I saw how Aunt Jane grieved
when Conway and Anna were married, she
has never been herself since that time, she
goes about like one in a dream, tell me
uncle Sidney, what shall I do?”
	Thus appealed to, Sidney Barrington
could not but sympathize with his dearest
pupil, for indeed he was, and he promised
to consider the matter, “but,” he added,
“never run away, it is only the weakest
men who do that, ‘faint heart never won
fair lady.” And Edward promised to wait
awhile until his uncle should make up his
mind what was best. Ere he turned to go,
for they were out under the great elms,
he said inadvertently, “uncle Sidney were
you ever in love and have you been disap-
pointed?” No one had ever put such a
question to the minister before and he
winced under such sharp questioning, and
Edward, noticing his reluctance, said, “O,
never mind, if you do not care to tell me,


only I thought perhaps it might help me
to know how you were cured.” And Ed-
ward walked away, leaving his uncle pac-
ing to and fro under the elms. He called
him back ere he reached the doorway, and
said, “I’ll tell you a story, my boy, it may
help you, it may give you courage.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


“FOR, AND IN BEHALF.”

THE millions now behind the vail,
	In bondage, tears and grief,
Are waiting for these blessed words,
	Of comfort and relief:
The words are truth and surety,
	They mean no broken staff—
They’re words of joyous liberty!
	Yea, “For, and in behalf.”

Elijah’s power to bind and seal,
	By Heaven’s decree gone forth—
The father’s hearts are turning to
	Their children now on earth.
And praying them with tearful eyes,
	To strike their fetters off,
And listening eager for the words;
	Yea, “For and in behalf.”

They’re waiting, anxious, waiting
	For kindred here on earth,
To give them in a Temple’s font
	A new baptismal birth.
And shall we keep them waiting,
	Thro’ long and dreary years?
Not hear their earnest pleading;
	Their piteous prayers and tears?

They know that Christ Jehovah
	Hath crushed the serpent’s head,
And wrought out full redemption,
	For living and the dead;
And shall we keep them waiting
	Like helpless, wretched waif,
And supplicating for the words—
	“For you, and in behalf?”

Oh, awful thouht! when we go hence
	Their work we’ve left undone—
Pangs of remorse will sting our hearts—
	The torment be our own.
We cannot look them in the face,
	For their reproachful looks,
Will point to blanks, we might have filled,
	In Temple record books.

But when we’ve done their work complete
	Sanctioned by God above;
They’ll fold us in a long embrace,
	Shed gushing tears of love.
What rapture then will fill the soul
	No mortal tongue can tell—
The welcome plaudit from our Lord,
	Well done, well done! tis well?”
						Millennial Star.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 19th, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Continued by singing, “Come let us re-
joice in the day of Salvation.” Counselor
Stevenson read a note from President Horne
stating that she had a cold and could not
meet with us to day. Counselor E. Steven-
son said she was sorry that we had not our
Secretary present today. Sister L. D.
Alder was called upon to act in this capacity.
	Counselor Stevenson said, “I hope we
continue to meet even though we are few in
number. But we have more than two or
three here and I know we meet here in

[COLUMN 2]
“His name.” Since I last met with you
here I have been visiting the waste places of
Zion. Spoke of the dedication of a meet-
ing house in St. John’s, in Kansas. Visited
Independence, Mo., where is situated the
Temple block, called upon Mr. Hill, who
had lost even his home to save the Temple
block from the Josephites. These denom-
inations say we all belong to the same
church but we differ. The Temple lot
seems to be kept sacred, only a Hedrikite
Church on it. It has not been tilled since
the corner stone was laid. Visited Adam-
on-di-ahmon, the rock shows where fire has
been on it and there it stands through all
the ages. Spoke of Haun’s Mill, and the
seventeen lives that were sacrificed there.
	Then we went on to Nauvoo, I was
astonished to see a high church steeple
there, I thought of many things as I
walked its streets; viewed the spot where
the prophet stood and baptized for the dead
in the river. There is a grave stone on
Sister Emma’s grave,and Joseph’s children,
but no others. Visited Quincy, Keokuk
and many other places where the Saints
had resided. Also went to Elgin to visit
David Smith. I met Alexander and David
when they were here, when David was a
boy, he is fine looking, and gentlemanly in
his manners. He is much better but is not
recovered. He said he passed his time in
reading, and playing on the organ, he also
cultivated some flowers. He showed us
the flowers himself and showed us a bridge
which he had assisted in building, he gave
me a little rock out of this bridge. He was
so thankful for our call and visit. He sent
his kind regards to all his friends and rela-
tives in Zion.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased to hear
Sister Stevenson’s account of her trip. “It
has made me think of other days, and many
happy times I passed at the Prophet’s house.
I had my endowments with my husband,
when the prophet was living. Joseph said
many things which I remember yet. He
told us our Temple suits should be our
burial suits. I also was at the Relief
Society meeting when he told us he would
not be with us long. I wish the cloud
would pass off the mind of David. Sister
Stevenson has given me some of the flowers
David gave her, and has promised to send
me a piece of the stone where my husband
knelt when he was ordained one of the
Twelve Apostles. I pray the Lord to help
us to come to these meetings, also to do
better, and leave no stone unturned in do-
ing our duty.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, said she was
pleased to be here, having been gone three
months. Spoke of the ship on which she
crossed the sea. Said the ministers and the
better class of people who do not want to
spend their money,but are going for instruc-
tion, go in second cabin. The motion was
not as much as on the railroad. So none need
fear being sea-sick. Then in the steerage
one can go for sixteen dollars, so none need
go without their records. Spoke of London,
over 5,600,000 in numbers. They told us
if we walked nine miles a day, it would
take ten years to go over London. Met
people who knew nothing of Mormonism.
All they had heard was that Brigham
Young had five hundred wives. The
Americans we met really seemed more
prejudiced than the foreigners. Spoke of
two of our young Elders. holding a meet-
ing in Regent Park, felt proud of their
preaching. Visited Scotland, to try to get
her mother’s genealogical records; des-

[COLUMN 3]
cribed the place,only 1 £. to stay and search
the records for one month. “Pray for the
Missionaries who are proclaiming the Gos-
pel, that the Lord may sustain them.”
	Sister Phelps, thought we should remem-
ber the missionaries. Desired to live hum-
ble and faithful,also said other good things.
	A Sister in the congregation said she left
London many years ago, and she came
here for the Gospel’s sake and knew it was
true.
	Sisters’sang, “Praise to the man,” &c.
	Sister J. C. Howe, said she did not feel
like speaking, but enjoyed listening to
Sisters Stevenson and Hyde. Bore
testimony that this was the work of God,
made other encouraging remarks, urging
the sisters to continue in diligence.
	Sister Silver, bore her testimony, and
spoke of some of her early days in London,
exhorted the sisters to live their religion.
	Closing remarks by Sister Stevenson.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“We thank thee O, God for a Prophet.”
Benediction, Sister L. D. Alder.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


R. S. REPORTS.

		SAN LUIS STAKE.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	MINUTES of the Semi-annual Conference
of the Relief Society of the San Luis
Stake, held, September 15, 1895.  Present
on the stand were President Mortenson
and Counselors, Magdalene Funk and
Jane Crowther, and many of the leading
brethren and sisters of the stake. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer.
	Cornelia Mortensen made a few opening
remarks, was pleased to meet with the
saints on such a beautiful morning, prayed
for the spirit of God to direct us.
	Verbal reports were then called for,
which were responded to cheerfully. The
spirit of the speakers in general was good,
and the storing of grain, was made the im-
portant subject. The general and local
officers were presented and unanimously
sustained; after which a letter from Zina
D. H. Young was read. Before closing,
Bishop S. C. Berthelsen made a motion,
that the brethren sustain the sisters with
their means as well as by their faith, which 
was unanimously carried.
	Conference closed by singing and bene-
diction.
	LAURA J. M. PETERSEN, Sec. pro-tem.


RECENT calculations show that if all the
saloons in Chicago, both licensed and un-
licened, were placed side by side on one
street, allowing to each about the room oc-
cupied by the average store, there would be
a continuous line some fifteen miles long.

	DR. SARAH HACKETT STEVENSON was
the editor of the woman’s edition of the
Chicago Evening Journal of Nov. 1st, per-
haps the most elaborate and successful
complication of newspaper work by women
ever issued.

	ONE hundred thousand men and twenty-
five thousand women in round numbers
voted for woman suffrage in Massachusetts
on the 5th day of November. This fact
will give a standing and an impetus to the
cause in this State which it never had be-
fore. We shall go before the next Legisla-
ture with an added claim to favorable con-
sideration.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
		vertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
		one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
		t regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW STATE.

	THE election is over and the votes are
being counted by the Utah Commission
and the positive results will soon be given
to the public; it is already well known
that there is a large majority for statehood,
and that means a large majority for equal
suffrage. This is a matter of rejoicing for
all women everywhere who have the ad-
vancement of the world of mankind at
heart. The third free state for which
another star will be placed in the woman's
flag, and the forty fifth star in the flag dear
to every patriot and recognized as the flag of
liberty throughout the world.
	It is a singular thing that the west, 
the intermountain states should lead in the mat-
ter of equal suffrage, which in itself means
progression, the East hangs back and
clings more closely to all old forms and
traditions, while the great broad magnifi-
cent West, reaches outward and upward for
larger growth, and greater enterprise, tak-
ing in the newer elements without fear of
disaster and conserving all the vitality by
new methods, to produce stronger and
wider breadth of conditions, for the benefit
and blessing of the great masses of people,
who must be considered, in society and in
government.
	It will be a great strength to the women
who have labored so long and so diligently
when they meet again in Convention at
Washington this coming winter to have the
satisfaction of knowing that Utah’s political
freedom is an established fact. The three
free states will be like a tower of strength to
the organization, and the women leaders
are wise and judicious and will make the best
use of the influence for further work in that
labor which is still in the future.
	The women of Utah should see to it now
that they act their part bravely and well.
always looking for the opportunity to do
good, or to work reform of that which is
evil, and never be hoodwinked by wily pol-
iticians into making promises that they will
afterwards repent or feel compelled to break.
There is still work to be done, there are
many things yet to learn, and help to be
given to those who have not been favored
with a knowledge of public affairs. There-
fore the study clubs upon civil government
are almost a necessity, and whether the
books recommended by the National As-
sociation, or some other works are used, it
is certain some course to inform all women
so far as possible should be considered by
women in all voting precincts. Without
any regard to party or party issues but in all

[Column 2]
seriousness these matters should be taken
under advisement. All women foreign
born who are not naturalized, should see to
taking out naturalization papers, that they
may be an actual factor in the new state.
	Utah will be in a great measure what its
women make it, as Napoleon once said,
“what France needs is mothers", and it is
a common saying, "Show me the women
of a nation and I will tell you what that
nation is." The women of Utah will have
advantages hereafter not previously enjoyed
(not even when she possessed the franchise
before) because conditions and circum-
stances are widely different. When wo-
men study politics they will not only
broaden their own minds, but the intellect
of the sons will be brighter, and their
characters stronger. When His Excellency
President Cleveland shall have affixed his
official signature to the new Constitu-
tion and issued the Proclamation, then all suf-
frage women should acknowledge the free-
dom accorded them in some demonstration,
that will be suitable to so grand an occasion.


[Column 1]
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

		ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	THIS great stateswoman (Mrs. Stanton)
has reached four score years in the scale of
time, but in the scale of progression who
can fathom the heights she has attained.
Looking backward over her long and event-
ful and extraordinary life, what wonderful
lessons may be learned from it. Her birth-
day was observed in many places in some
way calculated to do honor to the woman
and the cause she represents. As yet but
only the dispatches sent out by the associat-
ed press have reached here, of what was
done in New York at the celebration on the
12th of November.
	The entertainment was in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House, and was in the hands of
a very efficient Committee and under the
auspices of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Mrs. Stanton was born in Johnstown,
New York. Her father, Judge Daniel
Cady, was a distinguished and, it is said,
the oldest Judge who ever sat on an Ameri-
can bench, resigning at the age of 84 years.
Her mother also comes of a celebrated
family, her father was Col. James Living-
ston, who fired into the Vulture, which sent
the British vessel down the river and caused
Andre’s capture by our men.
	Mrs. Stanton with Lucretia Mott, the
venerable Quaker, called the first “Wo-
man’s Rights Convention” ever known; it
met at Seneca Falls, New York, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. A day which will be ever
memorable in the history of the country,
for it has brought about such changed con-
ditions to women and in public sentiment
and affairs, as no other meeting since the
days of the Declaration of Independence.
	Mrs. Stanton’s labors for half a century
can scarcely be estimated, but the results of
that labor upon the world will never be
obliterated, it is an immortal tribute to her,
and to the women who have participated
and assisted in the work, especially Susan
B. Anthony her life long friend and able
co-worker.
	Mrs. Stanton has ever been a model
housekeeper, a devoted wife and mother, a
good illustration of this is given in a little
circumstance which happened in Albany
when some women who were opposed to

[Column 2]
her, asked “how she could spend so much
time from home and leave her children.”
She replied “that she had two children and
a maid with her at the hotel, and it took
no more time for her to give her lecture
than for them to listen.”
	At the celebration for Mrs. Stanton in
New York all lines of women’s progressive
work, were represented by able speakers,
and veterans of the suffrage cause were in
attendance.  One special object of the re-
union was to bring together these representa-
tives and pioneers to show what has been
accomplished during the last half century.
	The fact of Utah coming in as a free
state with equal suffrage just previous to
the reunion, is something to be proud of,
and as there were two Utah people present,
Samuel W. Richards and wife, it is most
likely that Utah came in for a fair share of
the honors on this great occasion.
	Susa Young Gates, of Provo, in thinking
how Utah could be appropriately repre-
sented at the reunion, suggested an onyx
ballot-box of native material and trimmed
with silver, which abounds in the Utah hills.
Accordingly the box was made of exact
proportions and mounted with silver, and
engraved “Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Nov.
12, ’95,” on the padlock, and on the plate
“Presented by Utah women.” Both the
National Woman’s Relief Society and the
Young Ladies’ National Mutual Improve-
ment Association contributed their propor-
tion to the Council, towards the expenses
of the entertainment.
	No doubt the report from Brother and
Sister Richards will reach Salt Lake before
long and full particulars will be published
in the home papers.
	Mrs. Stanton’s whole life is a forcible
argument in favor of equal suffrage,  Al-
though Mrs. Stanton has been such a de-
voted home-keeper it is said it “would
probably take an entire column to give the
mere list of the societies she had joined, en-
couraged or aided, the movements and or-
ganizations, which she has created or
generaled.”


FORTY YEARS MARRIED.

	MR. AND MRS. EDWARD STEVENSON in-
vited a party of friends to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of their marriage at their
residence in this city on Monday, October
28, 1895. It was a very pleasant affair,
and the guests, about forty in number, were
served with a sumptuous dinner in keeping
with their proverbial hospitality, Mrs
Stevenson is a very gracious hostess and
always entertains generously. The so-
cial chat indulged in during the early part
of the evening with congratulations to the
host and hostess, the greetings to each in
turn as new arrivals were ushered in, was
quite enjoyable and after dinner Brother
Stevenson called upon some of those pres-
ent to say a few words, and such occasions
call for expressions of sentiment from old
time friends. President Angus M. Cannon
made congratulatory remarks, alluded to his
long acquaintance with the family and the
integrity and zeal of Brother and Sister
Stevenson in the Gospel and touched upon
the topics of the times. Mrs. E. B. Wells
tendered sincere congratulations, and re-
ferred to the many pleasant gatherings
there, when those who had since passed be-
hind the vail had been present with words
of good cheer and encouragement.
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his


pleasure in meeting with those who had
labored so long and diligently in the inter-
ests of the Gospel, and congratulated
Brother and Sister Steveuson, wishing
them many years of happiness and
prosperity together, and spoke in a very in-
teresting manner of the past, present and
future.
	Brother Stevenson occupied a short time,
speaking of his earlier life, and his singular
experiences, rejoiced that he had been
favored of the Lord in so many ways, ex-
pressed his regard and appreciation of the
kindness and good wishes of his friends,
and alluded in an interesting way to his re-
cent journey East.
	Brother Stevenson is a traveling mis-
sionary as indeed are all the seven Presi-
dents of Seventies, the quorum of which
he is a member; he has collected many
choice photographs and pictures of historical
value; with which he illustrates his public
lectures, and they are also very entertain-
ing as reminescences of history and of the
waste places of Zion.
	There were a number of people present
whom it would have been very edifying to
listen to, some of them, veterans in the
Church, but as the hour was growing late
Patriarch Joseph Horne was asked to pro-
nounce the benediction and the party broke
up.
	Among those present, besides those men-
tioned, who may be counted as veterans in
the Church, were Bishop R. T. Burton and
wife, Elder Ezra T. Clark and wife, of
Farmington, Patriarch Joseph Horne and
wife, we must also mention Bishop George
H. Taylor and wife, his Counselor T. E.
Taylor and wife, Sisters Jane B. Taylor,
Elizabeth Webb, Mary Alice Lambert,
Emily H. Cannon, Hannah C. Wells,
Maria W. Wilcox, Lucy W. Kimball, Mary
Ann Taylor, Mary E. Carter, and many
others. The regret of the evening was the
unavoidable absence of Presidents Wood-
ruff and Cannon, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	The EXPONENT extends congratulations
to Brother and Sister Stevenson wishing
them many more such anniversaries and
reunions of friends and an eternity of un-
alloyed happiness in the hereafter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EUGENE FIELD. 
_________________
EUGENE FIELD the beloved poet and 
man of letters, died suddenly and without
warning, Nov. 4th, at day break; the news
made not only Chicago sad but thousands
throughout the country will mourn the loss
of one of the brightest geniuses of the
nineteenth century. The newspapers and
magazines of the month contain touching
tributes to the memory of this man of bril-
liant genius, from his friends and com-
panions, all of them, men who are them-
selves famous in literature.


COLORADO WOMAN’S GREETING.
_________________________________
	THE women of Colorado who know
whereof they speak, send friendly greeting
to the women of Utah who have just been
enfranchised under the Constitution of the
new state. We heartily respond to this
cordial expression of their appreciation of
our full-fledged citizenship, and trust the
link that binds the women of the three free
states; Wyoming, Colorado and Utah to-
gether, may be as strong as the chain that


unites the rock-ribbed mountains of these
intermountain states, and as imperishable
as the pure metal with which these ever-
lasting hills abound.

OFEICIAL CONGRATULATIONS.
_____________________________
		DENVER, COLO. Nov. 12, 1895.
	Dear Mrs. Wells:
	The Colorado Equal Suffrage Asociation in ex-
ecutive session on November 9, 1895, instructed
its secretary to send congratulations to the newly
enfranchised women of Utah.
	May the granting of citizenship to the women
of Utah presage reforms manifold and beneficial;
and, in the march of progress, may your banner
ever float in the front ranks.
	We gladly adorn our suffrage flag with the
third star, and the women of Colorado wish you
God-speed as workers, and as citizens of this
great nation.
	Very cordially yours,
			THEODOSIA G. AMMONS, Sec.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A.W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, I3, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	Mrs. Wells: This is Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who came into the Valley in 1847,
and I venture to say has done as much
work in this part of the country, and per-
haps more than almost any other woman.
 Miss Anthony: Mrs. Horne came here
in ’47. Just think of it—two years before
gold was discovered in California and one
year before Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote
the resolution that enfranchisement was the
underlying right which women must de-
mand in order to secure liberty and equality
for women—one year before the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention was held at Seneca
Falls this woman crossed the plains, think
of it. She don’t look as if she ever did
much.
	REMARKS BY M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I assure you it
is very unexpected for me to be called upon
to address you this morning and particularly
after the eloquent addresses which you have
heard from those ladies, our visitors. I
have been a great worker in this Territory
and a great believer in Suffrage as long as I
can remember; in fact I don’t remember the
time when I didn’t think it was wrong to
show so much difference between men and
women. I was always advocating wo-
man’s rights and woman’s elevation from
my earliest recollection. I have not had
the privilege of working in the suffrage
cause particularly of late years as I would
like, as I have had so many other things
pressing upon me and claiming my atten-
tion; but I am heart and soul imbued with
the cause and I rejoice most exceedingly in
the remarks which have been made before
us this morning and I hope every one has
enjoyed them as much as I have. They
have sunk deep into my heart, and I ap-
prove of the principle which those noble
women have set before you so clearly and
so intelligently, and it seems almost like
wasting time to invite me to speak this
morning after hearing what has been said
by our late visitors. I am heart and soul
with you and also feel that we should be
congratulated, as they have congratulated
us, in view of our becoming a state with
equal suffrage in the Constitution and look
with great hope that we shall receive. that
right.

[Column 2]
	There have been many things said about
the ballot unsexing women, that they
would neglect their homes, that they would
become masculine etc. This was said to us
a great many years ago. We who have
been here a number of years realize that
we had the ballot for 17 years, and I would
like to ask the question what home has
been injured, what family has been
neglected, who became masculine? It has
not taken away any of our motherly feel-
ings. Has it unsexed us? We went to
the polls, the gentlemen opened the way
for us, we passed in our vote and I would
be glad if we could induce all the men and
women to believe in equal suffrage for both
sexes. God created us equal, we stood side
by side when mankind was created and man
has no right to say “I am the master.”
God gave our first parents the freedom of
the earth, he told them to go forth and in-
habit the earth, but even the freedom which
he gave to man is taken away from us, but
the time is coming when women will stand
side by side with man, that they may
work together. It would be much better
if they could work in union and homes
would be happier. I don’t feel that it
would be wise for me to continue my re-
marks but as Miss Anthony said, to think
that we crossed these dreary plains with
ox teams in ’47, when this valley was a
dry desert country, and all that we
possessed was an ox team and one year’s
provisions, which we had to bring with us
before we knew whether the country would
produce it, and as Miss Shaw said yesterday
it took a good deal of moral courage and
faith in God to live through those circum-
stances. When our grain was grown much
of it had to be pulled up by the roots. We
were eating our last sack of flour and the
crickets eating our fields of grain, and star-
vation stared us in the face to that extent
that we did not know but that we would
all die of starvation; but the Lord sent the
gulls and they devoured the crickets and
disgorged them and devoured them again.
That is a sample of the trials that attended
us in settling this valley. I have talked
long enough and I hope that we shall suc-
ceed in our great cause.
	Mrs. Wells:—Ladies and Gentlemen:
This is Mrs. E. H. Parsons.
REMARKS BY MRS. E. H. PARSONS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: So much has
been said by those who preceded me that
there is nothing left for me to say except,
that I am very glad to have the opportunity
to welcome these noble ladies who have
done so much for the cause, and who for so
many years have had to undergo discourage-
ments and rebuffs. It is now time to think
of the other half of humanity. It is 20
minutes past 12 and I have duties to call
me at half past 12. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony: I have the pleasure to
present to you the Hon. J. R. Murdock of
this Territory, who was in the legislature
of 1869 and 1870 when suffrage was first
extended to the women of this Territory,
and he was an honorable member of the
Constitutional Convention and is an ardent
believer in the suffrage question.
REMARKS BY HON. J. R. MURDOCK.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
	I fully appreciate this distinguished honor
which has been extended to me on this oc-
casion. I certainly have been gratified to
be present here to listen to the noble words


[Column 1]
that have been uttered by Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw and those other ladies who
have spoken, and it seems to me that there
is nothing left that I could say that would
be gratifying or interesting to you, but I
certainly feel a thorough sympathy in the
cause of Woman Suffrage—I have ever felt
so from the time that suffrage was first
given to them, in fact before. When it was
put forth in the legislature I very readily
consented to give it my influence and my
support and I have no fear of the results of
giving suffrage to the women of Utah, we
had it as has been said in common with the
men, and the women went to the polls and
cast their ballot and no evil resulted from it.
Of course Woman Suffrage like all other
new theories that have been advanced has
met with distrust and misgiving; but I feel
gratified and pleased that I myself was of
the number that recently in the Convention
cast my vote and my voice in the interest
of equal suffrage to humanity in this Ter-
ritory, which I trust and hope will be so
perfect in the estimation of the people that
it will receive their endorsement and sanc-
tion. Of course there may be women who
are opposed to suffrage, but I think the
sympathy and the feelings of the people
generally is gaining ground in the interest
of suffrage, and I think it will continue to
do so and I think eventually it will extend
throughout this broad land, this great Re-
public of which you and I are a part. I
think it will extend to every nation. As
we find civilization increase and advance,
we find there is more liberty and freedom
extended to the human race. If we take
history in the early ages when man was in
semi-barbarism women have had less free-
dom than when they became more civilized.
As civilization extends from the Far East
to the Far West there will be more freedom
extended to every class and community,and
for that reason we should not fail to strug-
gle on until every daughter has free and
equal rights with man. This is my feeling
and my desire and I shall do all in my
power to promote it. I have been associated
with an organization to some extent, and I
am an honorary member in the County of
Beaver, and we have some very excellent
organizations and I am pleased to see the
progress that is being made there, and it
will grow and increase, and we must not
forget that all the good things that come
to the human family come with some labor
and some exertion and we ought to put
forth our might, our influence and our
voice to promote these things that are so
excellent and are of so much consequence
to us when we become acquainted with them.
The great difficulty with the people is that
they are not educated in this principle, it
has not been explained to them although it
has been in their midst. So many are care-
less and indifferent, it is only a small por-
tion of the women that take the interest
that they should, and that they will when
they can become better acquainted with
what is to their interest. It is no less so
with the women part of the community
than it is with the men when anything new
is introduced into their midst, they look up-
on every new theory with distrust. I feel
highly pleased at the progress that has been
made by the noble ladies who have come
from the far-off part of the country to ad-
vise, promote and advance their ideas in
behalf of suffrage for the women of our
Territory, and I congratulate myself that I
have the privilege of meeting them, and I
congratulate you ladies for the privilege

[Column 2]
you have of hearing their voices, and being
in their presence and listening to their
eloquent speeches, and I say to you, do not
miss an opportunity of coming here and
listening to them. I thank you for your
kind attention in listening to my remarks.
	Adjourned until 8:30 p. m.
	Monday evening May, 13th, 1895. Con-
ference called to order by Miss Anthony in
the Convention hall at 8-30 p. m.
	Opening prayer by president Angus M.
Cannon. Miss Maude Pratt and the Cecelia
Club sang “The Psalm of Life” which was
beautifully rendered.
	Mrs. Wells: I am very proud to be able
to say to you that Miss Anthony will ad-
dress us in a very few minutes and I hope
the people will not spare their enthusiasm
tonight and I trust you will applaud her.
(Applause.)

REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	Now my good friends, is it not remark-
able that when our Revolutionary Fathers
made this magnificent declaration: “That
all men are created equal: governments de-
rive their just power from the consent of the
governed: taxation and representation are
nseparable," that they should have pro-
ceeded thereupon to establish a government
practically in violation of every one of those
fundamental principles which they thus loud-
ly proclaim. Instead of a government
based upon the principle that every man
and consequently every woman is created
equal, they have based a government upon
the blood and bones of half a million
people who have been bought and sold as
chattels in the market; instead of basing
their government upon the consent of the
governed, they have based it upon the con-
sent of a few white men who were pos-
sessed of a certain amount of property; so
that instead of founding a government
with these principles a general Democratic
Republican form of government they
founded a white male aristocracy of wealth,
and the whole work of a hundred years and
more, since the establishment of this gov-
ernment has been in putting forth a barrier
to our progress and onr efforts have been to
remedy those injustices by advocating the
great principle of equality. In the old
Colonial days property qualification was re-
quired, and when that property qualifica-
tion was removed we had established in the
United States not a Demoratic form of gov-
ernment, not a Republican form of govern-
ment but simply a white male aristocracy;
then the first great battle was fought which
demolished the color line so that no dis-
tinction could be made in suffrage in any
state in the Union on account of race,
color or previous condition of servitude;
and from that day we have had a male
aristocracy and the first state or territory to
break this great line of demarkation of sex
was Wyoming. In 1869 Wyoming Ter-
ritory passed a law giving women equal
rights of suffrage with the men and im-
mediately following Wyoming was this
Territory of Utah giving women the equal
right to vote with the men, and you know
the history and reason that this Territory
has not continued granting to women this
constitutional right. But the Wyoming wo-
men have voted from the beginning, while
your women voted for 17 years in this Ter-
ritory but the government interfered and
took away from the women of the Territory
the right to vote—I as one, and my friend
Mrs. Stanton another, always declared that

[Column 3]
since the national government did refuse at
the close of the war to interfere with our
states and to declare the true interpretation
of the XIV Amendment, enfranchised the
women of the nation as well as the colored
men of the nation, we declared to them
that the XIV Amendment which reads,
“All persons born or naturalized in the
United States and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of the United States
and no state shall make or enforce laws
which shall abridge the privileges and im-
munities of the citizens of the United
States; we declared by that amendment
the states were prevented from denying
the rights and privileges of voting to the
women as well as the men; but the Supreme
Court decided against us and Congress de-
cided against us, and when Congress and
the National Government had refused to
interfere with the states for the protection
of the citizens rights to the privileges and
immunities of citizenship then we made
our protest. But when Wyoming after 25
years came into the Union with its whole
citizenship, giving the right to vote to all
who could read the Constitution of the
State and of the United States in the
English language, then we felt that the day
of woman’s freedom had really dawned,
and after the enemies of woman suffrage
on the floor of Congress had made their
proudest fight to withhold that right from
us; but justice prevailed, and when the
majority of congress voted for the admission
of Wyoming with Woman Suffrage, we
knew that victory would yet be ours, and
we know today that when your Constitu-
tional Convention made your suffrage
clause after the fashion of Wyoming, giv-
ing to every citizen of the State who had
the proper qualification the right to vote,
we know that when your constitution shall
have been adopted or "ratified by the
majority of the voters of your State, and
shall go up to Washington next winter
knocking at the door for admission into the
Union, we know that Congress will admit
Utah with full suffrage to her women just
as well as Congress admitted Wyoming
with full suffrage to women. If this Ter-
ritory is made a state it will be made a
state with the full equality of right to wo-
men established in the organic law of the
state (applause) beyond the power, thank
God, of any congress or state, to interfere
again with the full and free exercise of the
right of suffrage belonging to the people of
the state of Utah. Now during the years
in which the battles have been going on in
Utah and Wyoming, we have had the bat-
tles going on in all the states of the Union;
we have petitioned our state legislatures
from year to year to submit the proposition
for suffrage for women—begging legislatures
to extend municipal suffrage to women by
legislative enactment and in every pos-
sible way have agitated the subject. We
have been going to Congress every year for
a quarter of a century or more, asking Con-
gress for a XVI Amendment to the Con-
stitution enfranchising women, we went up
there in ’69 at the same time that the wo-
men of Wyoming and the women of Utah
were enfranchised by their territorial legis-
latures, and from that time up to this year
we have gone to Washington every year
before the Committees of the two houses
and a number of other bodies, to petition
them to pass a resolution submitting this
proposition for a XVI Amendment, the en-
franchisement of the women of the nation.
This has been the great work that has been


[Column 1]
going on from time to time. In 1887 six-
teen senators on the floor of the Senate of
the United States, voted in favor of the sub-
mission of a separate amendment in favor
of Woman Suffrage, but oh dear, I don’t
know how many voted “no.” Sometimes
our friends are pleased to tell us in private,
they aim to have business to be absent when
the vote is taken.
	Now in the different states of the union
in which the women have been making de-
mands on the floor of the different legisla-
tures of their states for submitting the
proposition, ten different states from time to
time have submitted that proposition.
Kansas was the first. In 1867 at the close
of the best campaign that was made in the
state 9,070 men voted “yes” and 18,000
voted “no.” In 1874 Michigan submitted
the question, and after we had sent all the
speakers we could to help Michigan make
a great educational campaign 40,000 of the
best men in the state voted “yes” and
80,000 voted “no.” We have made a hard
fight and kept up a perpetual agitation on
this question for a quarter of a century,
such as the world has never witnessed on
any other question by any other people
we have done work enough, held conven-
tions enough, made appeals enough, cir-
culated pamphlets and newspapers enough
to have converted the whole world and car-
ried everything which we have demanded,
except for the fact that we who made the
fight had no political power, we had no
power to make or enact a single law or a
single office holder. If we had the power
behind us, had we the privilege to vote in
this nation we would not ask in vain. (Ap-
plause.) In 1870 when Colorado needed
our services we buckled on our harness, and
went out there before railroads were built,
and I traveled over the magnificent
mountains and magnificent valleys a great
deal of the way on a buck-board hundreds
of miles, and we had performed our best
work and the question came to the ballot
box 6,666 voted “yes” and 12,000 voted
“no.” You see how general the education
is. Then in 1882 came Nebraska with a
similar result; in 1884 Oregon; in 1886 R. I.
(Rhode Island;) in 1889 Washington; in
1890 South Dakota and then again we have
the same result, two to one virtually.
South Dakota was a new state; the very
first settlement was in 1882; in 1890 the
question was submitted; the total vote of
that state was 70,000; out of the 70,000
votes cast 40,000 were native born, more
than 30,000 were foreigners. I will not
stop to tell you of all the preliminary ex-
ercises or details but we held a convention
and raised $5,000 and paid the travelling
expenses of the best speakers we had in all
the country, and sent them up to South
Dakota and carried on the campaign for
six months, the best we possibly could; but
when election day came 24,000 out of the
40,000 native born voted “no” and the
whole solid 30,000 foreign born men, the
best portion of them Russians voted “no.”
You cannot expect those who emigrate to
this country from the old world where they
had no rights whatever, where they were
ground under the heel of despotism to think
that women should have any rights. At
least if you do expect it you will always be
disappointed. They have been educated
simply in selfishness, they never seem to
dream of a possibility or necessity for women
to have rights extended in any possible
direction. They come here simply to bet-

[Column 2]
ter their financial condition and they con-
sider if they can vote and earn money
themselves that the women must not share
with them.
	In 1893 Colorado submitted the question
again whether women should be entitled
to the right to vote, and the women of Col-
orado made a most heroic struggle, the re-
sult of which was that the Republican par-
ty, the Democratic party and the Populist
party, put a Woman Suffrage plank in
their platforms, and my good friends the
result was that every meeting throughout
that campaign of 1893, the Woman Suffrage
question was discussed, and when election
day came and when the vote was taken
7,000 more of the Colorado men voted in
favor of woman’s enfranchisement than
against it. For the first time in the his-
tory of the world a majority of the class
holding absolute power over another class
went to the ballot box and voted “yes” to
share that power equally with the less
fortunate class of Colorado which turned
the tide for this question to be carried to the
Ballot box. Wyoming set the example for
the legislature to extend suffrage to the
women and Utah followed the example of
Wyoming: so those two states have the
credit and will have it through all time for
being the first legislatures of the Union to
extend full suffrage to their women, and
then Colorado stands as the first state in
the Union to give suffrage to women by
what we term the popular vote; and now
you are the second state in the Union which
shall have submitted to its people its consti-
tution with equal suffrage imbedded in that
fundamental law. (Applause). As Wy-
oming with full suffrage imbedded in its
constitution adopted that constitution, with
this justice to women, just so Utah’s funda-
mental law is giving to her voters, the men
of the State of Utah, the privilege of extend-
ing this great principle of justice to the
women of her territory: and just as sure as
the men and women of the State of Wyo-
ming voted for the ratification of that con-
stitution with justice imbedded in it, iust so
surely will the majority of the men of Utah
go to the ballot box and vote for the ratifica-
tion of your constitution. So friends, the tide
is turning in the direction of full enfran-
chisement to women. In several of the
states women enjoy the right of suffrage to
a certain extent: in Kansas they have
municipal suffrage established for women
and then we have Colorado, Wyoming and
Utah with full suffrage extended, for you
are just as surely there as if you were there
already, and the states of these old rock-
ribbed mountains are the first to embody
ustice in their constitution and are going to
set the example, which is to be followed by
the other states by knocking that little
adjective male out of the suffrage clause of
the Constitution. (Applause.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Two ladies were elected members of
parliament in the reign of Edward III.
MISS MARY SNOW has been re-elected
superintendent of the public schools of
Bangor, Me.
	IN the death of the distinguished Scandi-
navian, Hjalmar Hjorth Boyesen, professor
of Germanic literature at Columbia College,
the principle of a free opportunity and
equal justice for women loses an influential
advocate.

[Column 2]
	THE following cities in Michigan, among
others, have this year elected women for
school trustees: Detroit, Ann Arbor, Grand
Rapids, Port Huron, Flint, Saginaw, Bay
City, Albion, Battle Creek, Kalamazoo,
Ypsilanti, Jackson. In Battle Creek one
woman was chosen president, another
secretary, and in Jackson a woman was
made treasurer of the board.
	MRS. ORMISTON CHANT received a visit
at hfer home in London this summer from
Rev. S. J. Barrows, who has just published
in the Christian Register a delightful
picture of her home, drawn from his own
observation. Mrs. Chant has been sur-
feited with newspaper praises, but she took
great pleasure in Mr. Barrows’ letter,
‘because,” she said, “it does justice to my
husband.” It has been a regret to Mrs.
Chant that the papers, while loading her
with compliments, have known and said so
little about the man who has been her con-
stant support and inspiration in all her re-
form work.—Ex.
	ACTIVE efforts and a large expenditure
of money, including a fund raised by the
Liquor Dealer’s Association of the State—
circulars addressed personally to the lead-
ing political workers of both parties in
every town and city, posters, flyers, and
the vigorous use of party machinery—such
were the means employed by the opponents
of woman suffrage. While they no doubt
ncreased the adverse majority, they have
brought the subject to public attention as
never before, and have given the suffragists
the names of friends and co-workers in
four localities where they had one before.
The agitation will henceforth be vastly
broadened and extended, for which we
heartily thank our opponents. Woman
suffrage has made more converts in Mas-
sachusetts during the past month than in
any previous year.—Boston Woman's
Journal.
	PERHAPS it is not too much to assert that
the majority of women have very
nadequate conceptions of the value and ex-
tent of time. The man of business learns
to understand just what five minutes will
do and what it means. It may mark the
limit of banking hours or the departure of
an important train. Promptness is so great
an essential in business circles, and a few
wasted moments may mean so much of
gain or loss or wasted opportunity, that
men are forced to learn the value of time,
and less frequently than women under-esti-
mate its uses. The woman who, in fem-
nine parlance, “accomplishes” much is the
woman who has learned to use and save
her minutes. Many women who are really
ndustrious think nothing of squandering
ten or fifteen minutes in an unmeaning, un-
satisfactory chat with an acquaintance,
then wonder at the close of the day what
has become of the hours. A very few.
misspent hours destroy a day’s usefulness.
Almost as deplorable as the waster of time
in gossip is the woman who never has time
for a pleasant chat with her friends, and
whose mind is so crowded with household
or social cares that she inwardly begrudges
the time given to a caller. However, there
is a happy medium between these extremes,
which it is well worth every woman’s
while to strive for. Time means golden
opportunities for so many helpful, interest-
ing occupations. Balzac says that in Paris
everybody wants to find a twenty-fifth


hour among the twenty-four. In our own
country we are looking away beyond that,
and would welcome the addition of a round
dozen hours to the calendar day.
	 MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE met with a
serious accident in New Orleans, While
she was out riding with a friend, an elec-
tric car struck the carriage, dashing it to
splinters. Happily, neither of the inmates
was killed but Mrs. Howe was thrown
violently to the ground, and, besides the
fall and the shock, she received injuries
about the knees, how serious we have not
yet heard. Her many friends will await
further news with anxious interest.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	OUR greatest glory is not in never fall-
ing, but rising every time we fall.—Con-
fucius.
	THE man who does his work well dig-
nifies it, but he does not usually wear gloves
while at work.
	ALL reasoning is retrospect; it consists
in the application of facts and principles
previously known. This will show the
very great importance of knowledge, es-
pecially of that kind called experience.—
J. Foster.
	As every thread of gold is valuable, so
is every minute of time and it would be
great folly to shoe horses (as Nero did) with
gold, so it is to spend time in trifles.—Mason.
	IT is not enough that we swallow truth
we must feed upon it as insects do on the
leaf, till the whole heart be colored by its
qualities, and show its food in every fiber.
—Coleridge.
	PROSPERITY has this property: It puffs
up narrow souls, makes them imagine
themselves high and mighty, and look down
upon the world with contempt; but a
truly noble and resolved spirit appears
greatest in distress, and then becomes more
bright and conspicuous.—Plutarch’s Lives.


HONOR TO A NOTED WOMAN.

	THE entertainment given at Farmington,
Utah Nov. 12, in honor of Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton’s eightieth birthday, was a
genuine success.
	The W. S. A. Convention met at the
same place in the afternoon, the State
President Mrs. E. B. Wells and Vice Presi-
dent Mrs. Emily S. Richards of S. L. City
were present; and Mrs. Richards and dele-
gates, from various parts of the country, re-
mained for the evening.
	At the door each lady was presented a
Stanton—Anthony souvenir.
	The following program was successfully
rendered.
	Prayer, Ezra T. Clark; Flag Song, four-
teen Primary boys and girls; Opening Ad-
dress, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark; Life of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Annie Tanner;
Tableau—Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony. Reading, “Utah the Star of the
West,” Miss Algie Walker; Comic Song,
Mrs. Lizzie Cotterall; Essay, “Woman of


the Twentieth Century” Miss Hattie Knowl-
ton; Tableau, Utah; Speech, G. W. Palmer;
Song, Mr. and Mrs. Froiseth; Recitation,
Miss Alice Clark; Song, Sadie Compton and
Rebecca Steed; Speech Mrs. Emily S.
Richards; Tableau, Ballot Box of the Past,
Present and Future.
	SECRETARY W. S. A. Farmington.


MRS. EMMA G. BULL.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTION of respect, adopted by the of-
ficers and members of the 17th Ward Relief
Society, to the memory of the late Emma G.
Bull who died, Oct. 24, 1895, at her residence,
after a short illness.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved secretary,
Sister Bull.
	Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of
Sister Bull the loss of a faithful, energetic, reliable
secretary, a friend to the needy a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother and
true Latter-day Saint, that we esteem her faithful
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion as
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
	Resolved, that we condole and sincerely
sympathize with the bereaved husband, children
and friends in the loss of a faithful wife, loving
mother and sincere friend.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon
the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society and
that we publish the same in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	MRS. B. W. SMITH, Prest.
	MRS. A. T. HYDE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	SISTER FRANCIS CROSBY BROWN died at her
home in Nutrioso, Apache Co, Arizona, on Oct.
12th, 1895.
	Sister Brown was born in Yarmouth, Nova
Scotia, Oct 31st, 1817, her parents were Joshua
and Hannah Cann Crosby. She was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, Dec. 10th, 1838, in Chatauqua Co.
New York. She gathered with the Saints at
Commerce, afterwards called Nauvoo, Ills., June
6th, 1839, in company with her mother, three
brothers, John K., Obed and Jessie W. Crosby
and sisters Hannah Crosby Mumford, and Eliza
Crosby Turrill. Her mother Hannah Cann
Crosby was the first Latter-day Saint who died at
Nauvoo and Mother Huntington, mother of Aunt
Zina and Brother William Huntington, was the
second person, one died in the evening and the
other in the morning, and their funeral services
were held together and Elder Sidney Rigdom did
the preaching.
	Sister Brown is the last of this Crosby family
except John K. Crosby, of Bountiful Davis Co.
who is over eighty years of age; and they all died
firm in the faith of the Gospel. She was married
to Lorenzo Brown in Nauvoo, March 24th, 1844,
the Prophet Joseph Smith officating, by which
marriage she had three sons and one daughter,
all of whom are still living.  She has 33 grand
and great-grand children living. She received
her blessings &c., in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 12,
1846. Suffered with her co-religonists in that
memorial exodus from Nauvoo, Ill., and reached
Salt Lake Valley Sept. 21st, 1848, and after a
short stay in the old fort located in the seventh
ward just north of the home of Bishop Thomas
Jenkins. She moved with her husband and family
to St. George, Washington Co. Utah, in 1862,and
may really be called a pioneer in the settlements
of Nauvoo, Salt Lake and St. George. Brother
and Sister Brown were called to labor as regular
assistants in the St. George Temple, by President
Brigham Young when it was opened in 1877.
	She moved to Arizona in 1883, and located at
Nutrioso; Sister Brown held the position of Stake
Secretary of Relief Society in the St. George
Stake for several year. She has also acted as
Ward President of the Relief Society in Nutrioso
during which time the sisters built a nice hall,
the best in this stake of Zion. Sister Brown
would have been 78 years old had she lived till
the 31st.
	She had a paralytic stroke Sep, 5th, 1895, by
which she lost the use of her right side, up to
which time she attended to her household duties,

[Column 2]
so it may be said she died of old age as she had
no disease and was sick only a few weeks. She
died in the presence of her husband, two sons
and her daughter, and all was done that loving
hands could do for her. She died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection with the just.
								G. H. C.

	IT becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our dear sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Ingri Peterson Meyer was born Nov. 16,
1840 in Fru Alstad, Malino, Hus-Legn, Sweden.
She came to Vandrup, Denmark, in the year 1867,
where she met and married Christian Meyer,
Nov. 22nd, 1874.
	She, with her husband, was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
the 27th, of February, 1877, in Vandrup, Den-
mark. They emigrated to Utah in June of the
same year. Resided in and around Nephi, Juab
Co., for two years, then moved to Vermillion
Ward, Sevier Co.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society, which
office she held at the time of her death. She al-
so held the position of first Counselor in the Y.
L.M. I. A. for many years; both positions she
honorably filled. Sister Meyer was a Latter-day
Saint in very deed; she,was an earnest worker for
the cause of truth, was kind and benevolent to
all around her; and though she was sick for a
long time she was never heard to complain, but
bore her lot like a true Saint of God. She died
Oct. 25th. 1895, at Sigurd (formerly a part of
Vermillion Ward,) surrounded by her family and
many friends. She leaves a husband, two sons
and one adopted daughter, to mourn her loss.
	May she rest in peace.
						REBECCA NEBEKER,
			Committee{	VIOLET IVIE,
						MINNIE S. DASTRUP.
Sigurd, Nov. 6th, 1895.
				Scandinavian Star, please copy.
MRS. SARAH CHAPMAN ELDREDGE.
RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Sinah Chipman Eldredge, who died of
pneumonia, in American Fork, Sep. 27, 1895.
	She was born September 11, 1831, in Leeds Co.
Canada West; she joined the Church, when eight
years old, and moved with her parents, Stephen
and Amanda Chipman, to Missouri, thence to
Iowa, from there to Council Bluffs, then came to
Salt Lake City, in Sep. 1847, where she resided
until the spring of 1851, when she moved to
American Fork, residing there until the time of
her death. She was sick for about five months,
during which time she manifested great faith and
resignation to the will of her Heavenly Father.
	She leaves four children, one son and three
daughters to mourn her loss; also, quite a num-
ber of grand children and great grand-children.
	She was a true Latter-day Saint, and has faith-
fully discharged the duties of a teacher in the
Relief Society since its first organization until
three years ago, when she desired to be released
on account of failing health.
	She took great pleasure in testifying to the
children of the saints concerning the Divine Mis-
sion of the Prophet Joseph Smith whom she had
seen and heard.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members
of the Relief Society do sympathize with the be-
reaved family in their loss of a loving mother,and
pray God. our Heavenly Father, to comfort and
bless them and help them to realize that their loss
will be her eternal gain.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, also be spread upon
our records, and one sent to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE.
		Committee{	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
					CHARLOTTE SHELLEY.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

