VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1896. No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Red Cross Relief Work. Foreign Letter—H
A. Tuckett. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. R. S.
Report—Wayne Stake—Anna Coleman. S. L.
Co. W. S. A.—Cassie Newman. U. W. P. C.—
E. R. Shipp. Zina D. H. Young. Notice—
Margaret A. Caine. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—Zina Hyde. National Plan Of Work. In
Memoriam. Obituaries. Conference N. A. W.
S. A. Dr. E. R. Shipp’s Classes.
	Editorial:—Kindergarten Education. Ap-
reciation Of The Ballot.
	Poetry:—Faded Faces—Mary A. Freeze.
Days That Live—L. M. Hewlings. To Hannah—
Lydia D. Alder. That Delinquent Poem—R. M.
Fox. A Poetical Address.


[Column 1]
FADED FACES.

ONE of the saddest sights, to me,
	Is a wrinkled, care-worn face, 
That once was lovely and bright and fair,
With beaming eyes, all free from care,
	Adorned with a nameless grace.
And the form now bent, once straight and grand,
	With the carriage of a queen
The step now feeble and careful and slow,
Was active and quick in the long ago, 
	As any that might be seen.
No thought of sorrow, of death or decay
	Had marred the spirit then,
The awful truth that all things here 
Must change, like the seasons of the year,
	Was far beyond the ken.
Oft have I asked, “why must it be
	That this wonderful work of God,
Must wither and wrinkle and fade and die
Before it can bloom in the worlds on high,
	E’en crumble beneath the sod.
As I look in some faces, the story I read
	Of a sorrowful, weary life
Despondency and hope deferred
Have left deep lines, tho’ never a word
	Has been uttered to tell of the strife.
Disappointment bitter sad and deep
	In other faces I see,
With traces of agony, moans and tears
Suffered through long and weary years,
	Asking “when shall I be free.’’
Despair in others has done its work
	In lasting scars, and deep,
And reason has almost been dethroned
By the aching brain, and the soul has moaned
	In anguish that could not weep
 Some are worn and weary with toil 
	Too hard for the delicate frame,
Through all the day and half the night,
The tired muscles kept up the fight
	Each weekly round the same.
Others bear traces of physical pain
	Which was very hard to endure, 
For years, perhaps, the weary soul
With patience has borne, till sweet control, 
	Has made the spirit pure.
Oh! The mothers of men: What a toilsome life,
	Is theirs from their early years.
And the pitying Father must look down,
And prepare for such a glorious crown,
	Where is found no sorrow or tears.

[Column 2]
Now, I will tell you what gives me joy
	As I look in these faces worn,
’Tis the hope that the Resurrection Day.
Will renew each body and smooth away
	Each line that mars, and remove each thorn.
The countenance then will shine as the sun,
	Being glorious to behold,
As robed in white ’round the throne of God,
Having passed from under afflictions rod,
	No more to grow wrinkled and old.
They’ll sing His praises forever more,
	Who redeemed them by His love,
Their peace will flow like a river fair,
His sons and daughters together share,
	The joys of the realms above.
						MARY A. FREEZE.


DAYS THAT LIVE.

SOME fair days to each mortal are given,
	That shine as stars thro’ misty rain,
Breathing sweet melodious harmonies,
	A balm to soothe life’s bitter pain,
Time glides with ceaseless flight, days disappear,
	Sombre or bright, with flash and gleam,
Fresh with the dews of hope, or blanched with
		fear,
	They pass from sight a fitful dream,
Yet there are days in life’s long journeyings,
	Oasis ’mid the desert sands,
To which we turn as living memories,
	In spite of time’s destroying hand.
With eager zest—quaff its pure waters
	Elixir’s boon, to heart and brain,
Quick’ning the pulses with thrilling raptures,
	Forgetting for awhile earth’s heavy strain,
As aged pilgrims toward home returning,
	With ardent hopes of rest aglow,
So turn we oft with eager yearning,
	To revel in the days of “long ago.”
Fair days within fond memory holden,
	Light e’en through gloom of midnight—give,
And as through cloud-rifts gleam sun rays golden
	Love’s beacon light are “Days That Live.”
						L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]
RED CROSS RELIEF WORK.

	A LETTER received, March 5, by a mem-
ber of the American National Red Cross
Association from Miss Clara Barton, dated
Para, Constantinople, February 19th, tells
of the journey of the Red Cross party which
sailed January 22nd, and also contains the
following:
	“The cablegram sent to Minister Terrell
yesterday by Secretary Olney, and which I
trust was made public, was the outcome of
a call in the morning upon the Sublime
Porte in the person of its minister of foreign
affairs, which was in every way as agreea-
ble, cordial and satisfactory as it could have
been made in any country. Not only was
the fullest permission given for our entrance
into Armenia, but an active and generous
effort was displayed toward making our en-
deavors, our journeys, etc., safe and pleas-
ant, as easy as possible, and also as pro-
ductive of beneficial results as could be
wished.
	“Mr. Terrell was very much gratified
and seems very happy over our success, to

[Column 2]
which the state department and he con-
tributed so largely.
	“As soon as an outfit can be made and
passage secured, our men will start for the
desolated regions. It will be cold and ter-
ribly hard for them, but that is what they
came for. I have met several of the lead-
ing missionaries and other American gentle-
men here. It is hoped the massacres are
over, but it is of course uncertain. The
general feeling is that Russia has said
enough.
	“The distress and suffering through
want and sickness are described as being
both enormous and terrible. Our stops on
the journey at London, Paris, Geneva and
Baden were short, but very pleasant, and
so full of good feeling, cordiality and use-
fulness.”
	Miss Barton refers in the beginning of
the foregoing to the message cabled by
Minister Terrell on the 18th ult., saying
the Red Cross had been admitted and
guaranteed protection and that the gates of
charity are now open. Since then these
dispatches have announced that the Red
Cross party had left Zeitoun, where relief is
most urgent, by reason of its capture by the
Turkish army.

	The national Armenian relief committee
will send $10,000 to Constantinople. It is
stated by the committee that the distribu-
tion of money is now being made among
the Armenians and at present the greatest
obstacle to the work of relief is the lack of
funds rather than opposition on the part of
the sultan. Mr. Stephen E. Barton, of
Westerly, R. I., received a cable from Miss
Clara Barton at Constantinople, saying that
the Red Cross society shipped on Saturday
a large quantity of relief supplies to the in-
terior of Armenia to go by caravan by way
of Alexandretta, on the Mediterranean.
	Miss Barton has forwarded funds to Har-
poot, Sivas and Laruch, and the reports
from the interior indicate that the needs of
the suffering Armenians are increasing.


FOREIGN LETTER.
	Nottingham, England, Feb. 13, 1896.
	Editor Woman's Exponent:
	There are a great many women in the
Church in England, both old, and young;
who would be highly delighted, and bene-
fited, could they have the opportunity of
perusing your excellent publication, many,
yes very many, of these sisters are unable
to subscribe, and are literally starving for
faith promoting and encouraging literature,
suitable to their sex. They are surrounded
day by day, with allurements and induce-
ments to sin, struggling on in the hope of
one day being able to gather to the body of
the church, fighting against the most dis-
heartening conditions, with nothing but
hope to buoy them up. Can the blessed,
yes thrice blessed sisters, in Zion not do
something to keep them, if only to have a
copy of the Exponent placed on file in
every conference house in the missions of


the world, where most of these sisters
visit, there it could be read and reread and
finally passed from one to another. Thus
doing a great amount of good. A little
money thus spent would be productive of
as much good as several Missionaries in the
field.
	Yours in the gospel of peace,
			H. A. TUCKETT,
President Nottingham Conference.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT.

	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, nee
Carrie Lane, Chairman of the Organiza-
tion Committee of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, was born in 
Ripon, Wis. and lived in that State until
seven years old. Then her parents re-
moved to Charles City, IA., which was her
home during most of her life. She was
educated at the State Industrial College of 
Iowa, after which she took a special course
in law. For three years she served as
principal of the High School and General
Superintendent of Schools of Mason City
Ia, at the end of which period, in 1884,
she was married to Leo Chapman, editor of
the Mason City Republican. They were
joint owners and editors. At the end of the
year they sold this property, and Mr. Chap-
man went to the Pacific Coast to find a 
more active field of labor. While there he
sickened with typhoid fever, and, died in
San Francisco. Mrs. Chapman remained
in that city for a year, doing general news-
paper work, and was the first woman re-
porter in that city. During her life there
she became familiar with much of the hard-
ships and privations of working women
in great cities, and for the first time realized
the fearful temptations which beset the
poor girl thrown upon her own resources.
Many sad cases of despair which finally led
to ruined character came under her direct
notice. With the finale of one particularly
distressing circumstance of this nature,
she resolved that the remainder of her life, 
with whatever ability God had endowed
her, should be expended in making the
working woman of the United States
respectable and respected, and, her right to
labor unquestioned. With this intent she
went upon the platform as a lecturer upon
general topics, thinking to gain a foothold
in this way. It was not long before the
suffrage cause claimed her attention. It is
plain to all that when the government
recognize the equal brain power of a wo-
man by counting her influence as a voter,
the world will follow speedily to recognize
her equality in labor. With her industries
recognized, her wages will rise. With
respectable wages, it will be easy to main-
tain character.
	For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891 she was
married to George W. Catt, president of the
New York Dredging Co. He is as ardent
a suffragist as is his wife, and aids her in
her work in every way possible.— Woman's
Journal.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

			WAYNE STAKE.
THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake,
held Conference Nov. 29th, 1895, in the
Loa Relief Society Hall, Stake President
Jane S. Coleman presiding. Singing.
Prayer offered by Pat. E. H. Blackburn

[Column 2]
Continued by singing. President J. S.
Coleman felt pleased to see so many
present, “we should trust in our Heavenly
Father to put such things into our hearts
that will be for the good of all,” prayed
God to bless us in our conference. First
Counselor Mary E. Hanks was pleased to
meet with the sisters, said: “If we all have
a prayerful heart, such things will be said
that will be beneficial to all. We are liv-
ing in a day and age when there are great
improvements, therefore it behooved us to
improve ourselves everyway possible pre-
pare ourselves to bring forth mighty men
and women. It is a great joy, when
mothers see their sons promoted to higher
priesthoods. We should encourage our
children to read good books. The lectures
on faith have been a great help to the
sisters, they understand the principles of
the Gospel. The Relief Society of Thurber,
Fremont and Teasdale were reported in
good running order. Sister Lucinda
Brown felt paid for coming to meeting.
We should live arid practice such things in
our lives that we do know is right.
Sister Nancy Blackburn bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, said, “the sisters
have been organized into societies for a
good purpose and we should be punctual in
doing our duties," etc. Sister Sarah A.
Robinson made remarks which were
timely. Pat. E. H. Blackburn was pleased
for the privilege of being with the sisters,
the progress of the spirit of the Lord to us
is wonderful, it is the right of every sister
to have the spirit of revelation with them.
President J. S. Coleman was pleased with
the remarks made and the spirit enjoyed.
Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Bastian.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—After opening
exercises Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe ad-
dressed the conference, said: “We should
be humble and seek for the spirit of the
Lord, we should be obedient to those who
are placed over us, these meetings are for
the purpose of instructing the sisters,
should instruct our children to do their
duties in the priesthood, we should seek
the Lord and his righteousness and all
other things will be added, the more we
study the more our minds will expand, the
Lord will cut his work short in righteous-
ness,” etc. The officers of the central
board were then sustained and also the
stake officers, the Relief Society of Loa,
Lyman and Caneville were reported in good
condition. Sisters Margaret Pace and
Julia Blackburn spoke encouragingly to
the sisters. Sister Leah Blackburn said:
we should encourage our children to go to
meeting our actions will be called up before
us, there is a great responsibility resting
upon the mothers, let us perform our duties
to the best of our ability. President J. S.
Coleman felt that the sisters in Wayne
Stake are improving greatly, "we have had
a goodly portion of the holy spirit with us,
if, we would seek faith the weak would be
made,strong, mothers should make good
selections for their children, etc., desired to
do all the good possible, obey those who
are placed over us.
	President W. E. Robinson said he had
listened with a great deal of interest to the
instructions given, said how perfectly we
are organized compared with the women of
the world, was pleased to note the increas-
ing interests in the Relief Society and see
them carry out the resolutions given by
those wlip are placed over them; the sisters

[Column 3]

should work in unison with the brethren,
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Hansen rejoiced
in meeting with the sisters in conference,
“the Lord is mindful of the sisters in their
efforts to do good,” encouraged the sisters
to continue in their good work so that our
influence may be felt for good. Presiden
J. S. Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, “Be it my only wisdom here,” etc.
Conference adjourned to be held at Cane-
ville. Benediction by Pat. E. H. Black-
burn. 
ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of meeting held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Hall, Feb. 18, 1896. The
Salt Lake Woman’s Equal Suffrage As-
sociation was favored with a lecture by Prof.
J. M. Tanner on the subject of "Popular
Government;" the lecture was illustrated
and was very instructive and enjoyed by
all who heard it, and showed beyond a
doubt that the Professor thoroughly under-
stands the subject and the ladies appreciated
the compliment he bestowed in kindly
consenting to lecture. After the lecture
Emily S. Richards made a few remarks,
said she was glad that the women had the
franchise and that we should make a study
of all questions near and dear to women.
Thought that a course of studies of the
Woman’s N. A. would be advisable. She
thinks that all women will yet have a right
to vote and was proud of the victory that
we had gained. Attributed our success to
our being so thoroughly organized and
united in our work, and thinks if we will
still hold together it will be a benefit to our
sister States that have not recieved the fran-
chise yet. When she was in Washington
this time Utah was recieved with much fa-
vor, and honored with one whole evening
being set apart for her. Senator Cannon
and Representative Allen spoke in good
terms of the subject. Mrs. Richards thinks
that the best of feeling does and should
exist between the women of both parties,
and that they should work together for the
benefit of woman-kind, and that equal pay
for equal labor was only right and just.
Women will be recognized by their vote
and they must learn to vote intelligently.
A motion to accept the report of the ladies
delegated to call on Mrs. Wells, State Pre-
sident of the E. S. A., be accepted as read
and the committee discharged. Mrs. Rich-
ards was appointed to call on the State offi-
cers and obtain more information if possible,
and report at next meeting. Prayer by M.
E. Bassett.
				CASSIE NEWMAN, Sec.


The senate in Des Moines Iowa think it
has effectually ended the movement for
woman suffrage in the state. The senate
joint resolution to amend the constitution
was defeated by a vote of 25 to 24.
	Queen Victoria, in her opening speech
to Parliament, has again shown her regard
for the American people and her desire for
peace. Newspapers throughout the United
States, although opposed to woman suffrage,
are loud in their praise of her “womanly
wisdom and ability as a ruler.” Apparently
it is only American women whom they con-
sider incapable of political responsibilities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TO HANNAH.

		A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

SWEET friend, with eyes of Heaven's blue,
Where the love of God, shines gently, through;
Kind Patience restiug on thy fair young fair,
And noble traits that add their grace,
We bring an offering on this day, 
And Heaven’s blessing on thee pray.

Lift up your heart for God is love,
Look up the sky is blue above;
And far away in realms unseen,
Thy record stands, no blots between;
But traced in gold, on each fair line,
Read “Hannah you are truly mine.” 

The gentle sigh that heaves thy breast,
The longing thought for precious rest, 
Like incense rare ascends to Him,
Whose earthly eyes with tears were dim,
Thy hopes and fears are in His hand— 
The shepherd loves, his chosen band.

Then take Life’s burden boldly up,
Though mixed with bitter be thy cup,
This is the road thy Saviour trod,
The royal road that leads to God,
May music from the unseen shore, 
Sweet comfort bring forever more. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
Nov. 1895.


THAT DELINQUENT POEM.

COME whisper to me gentle muse
The choicest language I may use;
To tell about my lady fair;
Whose many gifts are wondrous rare;
Ah! With my love who can compare?
This love of mine is sweet seventeen
And yet, through many a changing scene,
She’s passed with most unswerving will
Her chosen destiny to fill:
Come, tardy, muse, I’m waiting still.
From Pilgrim Fathers sprung you say?
Truly that was a golden day,
That landed on this western sod
On barren, bleak, and cold Cape Cod,
Ancestors of this child of God.
“Wife of an illustrious man,”
Another part of God’s wise plan, 
And yet to me she needs no grace
Than which adorns her own sweet face,
For there, her depth of soul we trace.
Come, come my muse! All this is well
But of herself I wish to tell;
My love on others does not lean
For love, and honor, and esteem;
Throughout these vales her praises teem.
She loves her neighbor's herself
Without regard for worldly pelf;
Her hand wiil guide, her words will cheer;
And yet withal she does not fear
To speak her mind if need appear.
Aye true you say: My words are weak, 
Her life and works for her bespeak;
What my poor pen cannot bestow,
And her reward is not below,
But up above, where she will know,
How warmly beats the heart of friends,
And where progression never ends,
She’ll realize her fondest dream;
 Her pen will find a grander theme,
And she will live for aye a queen.

R. M. Fox.
March 2nd, 1896.


A POETICAL ADDRESS.

	[Written of the Seventy fifth Birthday Anniver-
sary of Sister Zina D. H. Young.]

In Utah’s vales, from end to end,
Wherever Zion’s stakes extend,
	Wherever Zion’s songs are sung,
Good will, as for a household friend,
Encircles, Sister Zina Young.

With truth’s eternal cause allied,
	Ages before her mortal birth,
When rebel hosts elate with pride,
	in Heaven—the Sovereign Lord defied;
Distinguished was her zeal and worth.

A chosen One! Reserved to dwell—
	On earth, in these eventful times: 
To be a comforter as well, 
	Among the ranks of Isreal,
Gather’d from distant lands, and climes. 

A sympathetic, thoughtful soul,
	Who human sorrow understands,
Possessed of patient self-control
	And fervent faith, and helpful hands
That fain would make the sufferer whole, 

Our Sister Zina heads the lists—
	Of Zion’s Sisterhood—to day,
A band of true philanthropists,  
	Who constantly, as best they may,
The helpless and the poor assist.

Many, whose names can never die, 
	Whose memory claims sincere esteem,
Co-workers, in the days gone by,
Have been recalled to worlds on high,
	Yet Zion’s ranks unbroken seem.

Whoever, either comes or goes
	Zion is destined to progress
Her fate is not as some suppose
	Dependent on "The arm of flesh"
But all who bless her, God doth bless.

Of Zion’s earliest friends and true,
	Only a remnant we discern,
One here and there, a scattered few, 
	And these (who still we have in view)
Are near the goal, whence none return.

Now! is the time, undoubtedly—
	While friends are with us to rejoice
While each familiar face we see
	And hear each dear familiar voice;
A taste of lasting joys to be.

Haply before we are aware,
	Enduring souls, now weighted down;
Will lose their loads of grief and care,
	And wonder how, and when, and where—
They ceased to fear, Misfortune’s frown.

All, who can read “between the lines”
	Can trace our Father’s kind intent;
Oh! Wherefore question wise designs—
	Always, for our advancement meant?
Surely, ’tis well, to woo content!

For “Sister Zina” much we ask;
	May joy’s unlooked for—oft refresh her;
Long in Love’s sunshine may she bask, 
	Imbibing strength for ev’ry task;
And long may love lit eyes, caress her. 

Sadly we’d miss the kindly voice, 
	And cheery counsel, free from guile,
That makes so many hearts rejoice
	In seasons of severest trial; 
	How can we spare her yet awhile?

The friend of all, the foe of none;
	Akin to God’s most gracious Son—
Are they who let true Mercy lead;
Love! Is a magnet, strong indeed;
By sweet Compassion! Souls are won.

In friendship’s name, we owe a debt—
	To Heaven, or unto kindly Fate,

[Column 2]
That in life’s darkest hours, we’ve met, 
	"Angels of Consolation"—yet—
Disguised in this our mortal state.

Worthies of old—have, entertained, 
	Angels of mercy, so we’re told.
And at this feast, we have at least;
	One Angel, true as earth can hold—
A Woman! Good as finest gold.

Salt Lake City, Jan. 31st, 1896.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held at the office of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT Feb. 27th, 1896,
at 8 p. m. Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Secretary not
having arrived, C. C. R. Wells was chosen
Sec. pro. tem. Roll call responded to by
sentiments from Zina D. H. Young.
Minutes of former meeting read, revised and
adopted. A letter was read from the
Ninteenth Century Club of Provo inviting
the members of the Press Clup to attend a re-
ception given by them. Other miscellaneous
business was transacted and the Report of
the Committee on Resolutions was received
and read by the chairman of the Committee,
Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	The paper on Single Tax question by Dr.
Pratt was continued and followed by dis-
cussion opened by Phoebe C. Young who
had read Progress and Poverty by Henry
George and the Swiss Referendum. Mrs.
S. O. B. Cummings moved that the Single
Tax subject be continued for the next meet-
ing, seconded by M. A. Caine and carried
unanimously.
	Poem (original) read by Lydia D. Alder
on seventy-fifth birthday anniversary of
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young.
	The second chapter from Woman’s
Manual of Parliamentary read by C. C. R.
Wells. Mrs. Caine appointed to read the
next chapter at meeting in March. A
motion was made and carried that Dr.
Pratt send written copies of Resolutions and
Congratulations to Mrs. I. Cameron
Brown at Washington D. C. and to Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young of this City. Moved
and carried that the invitation from Provo
be properly acknowledged by the Cor. Sec.
Program read for the next meeting.
Moved and carried that the same Program
Committee, who have been very efficient,
continue in office three months longer.
	The President stated that she had re-
ceived a letter from the Countess Annie de
Montaigu asking for information concern-
ing the club, etc., to publish in an Eastern
magazine, and was pleased that the Club
was being so well known.
 Adjourned to March 31st. Benediction
by M. A. Cairie.
	C. C. R. WELLS, Sec pro tem.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


MISS MINNIE NEBERGALL is enrolling
clerk of the Iowa House of Representa-
tives, and Mrs. Carrie G. Sherman is en-
grossing clerk of the Senate.

	A RECENT decision of the Supreme 
Court of Washington holds that in cities of
10,000 or more inhabitants, women are en-
titled to vote at elections held to legalize
indebtedness for school purposes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non pareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econdclass matter
	SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1896.


[column 1]
KINDERGARTEN EDUCATION.
	THE movement all over the United States
to establish Kindergarten schools is gaining
ground rapidly, even among pedagogues, and
people are fast becoming converted to the
more recent ideas upon child culture and
methods.
	Fair Utah which abounds in children
ought not to be behind in progressive work
in this direction. Some extra exertions
have been made during the last two years to
give the children of Salt Lake City, Provo,
Ogden and some other localities the advan-
tage of this system of training, but it has
been almost discouraging at times, 
especially from a financial standpoint as fos-
tering the work has been entirely a philan-
thropic movement and it is difficult to make
it understood appreciated and recognized by
the community; therefore the maintaining
of the schools which have been established
has been by a comparative few who have
seen the good results and have been able to
comprehend the philosophy of the system,
and endorse it with zeal and earnestness for
the childrens' welfare and the good of the
race.
	Women cannot too soon urge upon
legislators and school boards the quality and
excellence of the Kindergarten.
	Froebel the originator of this system in
his trumpel-call to the mothers of Germany
says, "Come let us live with the children;"
and as every mother should live with her
children, and many mothers are severely
puzzled to know what to do with the chil-
dren and how best to train and manage
them, the mothers are the ones who should
become kindergarten educators, and the
young women of today can find no better
field or profession than the kindergarten
affords.
	In a lecture given upon this subject in
Chicago where there is a Kindergarten col-
lege, we find the remark "What becomes of
the girl graduates?" The answer is this,
"When a new and almost limitless field of
labor, which demands the highest and best
that women can bring to it stands open;
when salaries ranging from fifty to seventy-
five dollars per month, for only three hours
of laborin the school room during five days
in the week, go begging for lack of trained
teachers, when positions offering from one
to three thousand dollars a year for training
teachers, cannot be filled, we repeat where
are the girl graduates?"
	The same writer says, "better be a sur-
geon without preparation and maim the
body, than to experiment with a child's

[column 2]
soul. What we need and must have is bet-
ter-prepared students to begin with, and
longer courses of study."
	There has been an exertion made by
philanthropic women in this city, to get
more young women into the training
classes, but it is a matter so little under-
stood as yet, that the importance of the
educational training is scarcely grasped. It
is a subject for serious thought and cannot
be too strongly impressed upon the minds
of the young people. If a better generation
is to be reared for the great future of which
so much is said and in which the people of
today are so deeply interested, Utah cannot
begin too soon to provide for this systen of
public instruction and not make it depend
upon the charity and intense earnestness of
a few philanthropic women, who are them-
selves mothers and grandmothers with need
of all their powers and faculties to educate,
instead of raising money by private enter-
tainments, which at the most can only do
very little for the masses.


[Column 1]
APPRECIATION OF THE BALLOT. 

	As the Legislature draws towards the
latter part of the session people generally
seem to become rather more interested, and
the members of both houses are apparently
anxious to use greater dispatch; it is strange
that women have not manifested a deeper
earnestness in the matters pending before
this representative body of men. Because
women were not eligible to vote or be voted
for previous to the Proclamation for State-
hood, women should not show any lack of
enthusiasm in subjects so essential to the
community as some that are being brought
before this body of law-makers, nor should
they be unmindful of the responsibility
resting upon them because of the privileges
of equal citizenship. There are those
who fully expect that at another election wo-
men will be candidates for the Legislature and
other offices in the gift of the people, and
can they possibly anticipate that this can
be brought about without any sort of prep-
aration, any knowledge of what is neces-
sary to do beforehand? The apathy and in-
difference which seemingly exists is not
encouraging, and men need not fear
women who think the only thing required
of them is to talk.
	Education in these public matters is as
essential as in any other direction, and
there is no better place to learn than where
people put into practice the knowledge of
public matters they have acquired through
years of actual experience in affairs of the
commonwealth.
	Certainly the women of Utah are not
lacking in appreciation of this good gift
“The franchise,” and they are no doubt
proud of the fact that a woman was elected
Chief Clerk of the Senate, and why not
publicly acknowledge the honor by going
to the Legislature at least occasionally as
interested visitors, and listeners. Mrs.
Pardee certainly feels desirous of having
the presence of women in the Senate Cham-
ber, and the President of the Senate has
been most gracious and kind to those who
have attended, and all the members with-
out exception have looked kindly and ap-
provingly upon lady visitors, and if one
may judge from their manners are very
pleased that the women take notice of their
deliberations.
	If there are some women too busy and
positively cannot go, now and then for an

[Column 2]
hour or two to look on and listen, there are
many who have the time if they could only
have the inclination; for when one recalls
how women poured into the Constitutional
Convention day after day when the subject
of equal suffrage was being discussed there,
one wonders if they really appreciate the
ballot now it has been obtained. It is to be
hoped women will make a study of govern-
ment at home and wherever and whenever
there is an opportunity; but judging from
the little interest taken in this very impor-
tant Legislature, one cannot but feel they
are losing time to say the least.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. Mrs.
Kate Groesbeck President, the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman’s Press Club are all
taking hold of such subjects as will help in
the welfare of the state, and it is ardently
hoped that in other Counties the same kind
of study is being taken hold of with quite
as much energy.
	It is gratifying to know that the Govern-
or of Utah is consistently carrying out the
equal suffrage idea in the appointments he
is making on State Boards of public insti-
tutions. On the Board of the institute for
the Deaf and Dumb recently appointed by
Governor Wells, out of five persons two
women were made members Mrs. Harriet
F. Emerson of Ogden and Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of this City,
	The Boston Standard of Feb. 13 speak-
ing of the young Governor of the new State
of Utah says:
	“The advocates of equal rights have
indeed good reason to feel encouraged
and stimulated, not only in the fact that
with the admission of Utah a woman suf-
frage state is added to the Union, but also
that a man of integrity, of character and of
broad liberal principles, who recognizes the
value of an intelligent woman’s vote,
occupies the position of Governor of the
new State.”
	“The advanced attitude of the
residents of Utah in respect to the wo-
man question is an example of enlighten-
ment that reflects greatly to the credit of
the people in that western state and bespeaks
a high degree of moral and intellectual
force that might well be emulated by the in-
habitants of other localities in this Repub-
lic.”
	Closing the article of a column and a
half is the following.
	“Surely the women of the East
may well congratulate the women of
the State of Utah upon their representa-
tive in the gubernatorial chair. Would
that all men in public offices might be given
as fair a character.


TO THE PUBLIC.

My Dear Exponent:
	PLEASE give a little space in your
valuable journal in order to express our
warmest thanks to the Relief Society, and
Y. L. M. I. A., also numerous other
friends who have so promptly responded to
the call to forward their subscriptions for
the poetical works of Emmeline B. Wells
soon to be published.
	The many expressions of good will and
kindly interest from the sisters awaken a
responsive echo in our hearts. The active
interest, and substantial expression of good
faith in this labor of love is truly appreciated,
and we trust it will be "as the gentle rain
from Heaven, twice blessed—blessing those


who give and those who receive.” 
	For the benefit of those who have hither-
to been unable to add to this loving
testimonial, we will say that the edition is
not entirely exhausted, but the subscription
list is still open for those interested to obtain
this valuable work.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D.
	In behalf of Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ZINA D. H. YGUNG.

Tribute Paid to Her Character in Ogden on
	Her Seventy-fifth Anniversary. 
JANUARY 31st, will ever be a memorable 
day in Utah. On that date, in a little New
York town was born Zina D. H. Young,
whose labors as president of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints have attracted world-wide
attention. Each year as the day comes
round the people for whom she has done so
much endeavor to commemorate the anni-
versary of her birth in a manner in accord-
ance with the esteem in which she is held. 
The love for her increases with her age, and
although three-quarters of a century have
passed over her head her usefulness in-
creases rather than diminishes as the years
go by. To borrow the poet’s phrase, “she
is seventy five years young.”
	Last Friday being the seventy-fifth an- 
niversary of her birth, a general commem-
oration of the event was undertaken by
the branches of the great organization of
which she is the president. 
In Weber stake a celebration conforming
to the general plan was held in almost
every precinct. In Ogden the five wards
combined and held their celebration en 
masse at the large hall in the new second
ward institute, which was well filled by
representatives from each ward. The ex-
ercises opened by singing the hymn, “O
My Father,” after which Apostle F. D.
Richards made an eloquent prayer. This 
was followed by the hymn, “O Let Us Re-
joic,” sung with much feeling by all, “Twi-
light Imaginings,” a beautiful poem by
President Eliza R. Snow, was then recited
in an exquisite manner by Mrs. Farley.
	Little Lucy Woodward sang very nicely
the song “Wait, Mr. Postman,” after which
Miss Josie Zitsman rendered with marked
power the impressive poem entitled “Eve-
ning Thoughts,” by Eliza R. Snow.
Mrs. Doxey and Mrs. Poole sang a hymn 
and their effort was much appreciated.
Mrs. Christenson recited the poem, “A
Christmas Idyl,” bringing out with her
well modulated voice the full, rich meaning
of that poem written by Bishop Whitney.
	Apostle F. D. Richards then made a
strong address on the life, work and
character of Zina D. H. Young. He
eulogized her sterling qualities, her devotion
to her religion and to the cause of humanity. 
He told how impossible it was to think of
the Relief Society without thinking of this
great woman who had. devoted so many
years of her life to its upbuilding; spoke
incidentally of the noble work done and be-
ing done by the society in this and other
stakes and pointed out how such labors
were the result of this one woman’s 
unselfish devotion
	Bishop White of the third ward and
Counselor Scowcroft of the second ward
followed with brief addresses in which they
paid tribute to the Relief Society and to the
noble woman, who is its president. Hon.

[Column 2]
F. S. Richards made an eloquent address in
eulogy of President Zina D. H. Young,
referring to the influence she has exerted for
good in the world. He also referred to the
work of Eliza R. Snow as another illus-
tration of an unselfish and devoted woman,
but did not allow himself to wander far
from the subject of his address—Zina D.
H. Young—He also very strongly praised
the work of the Relief Society. His
address as pronounced by many to be a
master-piece, and it is hoped that it may
sometime be published.
	Mrs. H. C. Brown made a few well-chosen,
brief and instructive remarks, as did Mrs.
F. D. Richards, the president of the Relief
Society of this stake and the first counselor
of the president. In closing, Mrs. Rich-
ards expressed a hope that President Zina
D.H. Young should live and be president
of the Relief Society for at least twenty-five
years yet and asked that all so minded
should rise to their feet. Instantly the en-
tire assembly was standing.
	All joined in singing the Doxology, after
which Joseph A. West pronounced the bene-
diction.
	A noticable feature of the gathering was
that people of all sorts, the young and the
old, the rich and the poor, the learned and
the unlearned, were gathered together to
honor a character so beautiful in its strength,
so strong in its beauty.
Herald, Feb. 3, 1896.


NOTICE.
	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall Saturday
March 21. Meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m. A punctual attendance
of the officers and members from all the
branches in the Stake is requested. All in-
terested are cordially invited.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SEC


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan.
25th 1896, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “Now we’ll sing with one
accord.” Prayer by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
Singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she was happy to
see and meet with us to-day. Spoke of a
letter just recieved from a young man who
had been helped to go to the Keeley,
thought this was good seed sown. She
said she had read in the Book of Mormon
about those who wanted to do good and
help those in distress but who were pre-
vented by circumstances. Thought we
should feel for those in trouble and comfort
and help them, for this was our mission.
Spoke of prayer, said Joseph Smith set a
noble example; spoke of purity, felt to
grieve over young people going astray.
Thought the fathers should talk to their
sons as well as the mothers to talk to the
daughters. The speaker felt grateful that
she lived in this peaceful valley, also for the
many blessings which she enjoyed, prayed
the peace of God to be with us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said we had all come
here to-day to get more of the Spirit of God
and to renew our strength; said we were
living in perilous times; many things were

[Column 2]
creeping in to wean the people from the
things of God. Wealth was one great
thing. Said she heard President Young
say the time would come when the people
would be tried with wealth; knew we must
be tried in all things. Sister Catherine
Forsythe bore a strong testimony. A sis-
ter said she constantly prayed for wisdom,
that that was the greatest thing to ask for.
She had no comfort outside the gospel; felt
it was a noble thing to look after the poor,
she loved them. Sister Carlhurst bore a
faithful testimony; spoke of her Temple
work and the joy it gave her.
	Counselor Annie Hyde said she enjoyed
hearing the testimonies of her sisters, and
that it strengthened her very much. Spoke
of the severe illness of her little son and
knew he had been healed by administration
under the hands of Sister Mary Ann Hyde.
Sister Sampson exhorted mothers to look
after their daughters and gain their confi-
dence and be one with them. Made other
good remarks.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony to the
goodness of God. Spoke of a very severe
illness she had been afflicted with and told
how she had been healed almost instantly
by administration. Said she had prophe-
cied and seen the fulfillment of it. Sister
Marguerite O. Brown loved to speak of the
goodness of God. Told of an awful acci-
dent which happened to her little son and
the faith she had for him and was able to
exercise. Said her neighbors wanted to go
for a doctor but she said no. She prayed
over him and heard a voice say in her ear,
“Fear not your child will be all right.”
He was healed and she knew it was the
prayer of faith which saved him. Sister
Elizabeth Parks spoke of the healing
power which was in our midst, also of
prayer. Related an instance of her being
very sick and she requested her name
handed in at one of these meetings to be
prayed for. Said she had felt it all
through her body and had been healed.
Sister Mary Gurber said she could bear
testimony to the last speaker’s remarks,
for she was the one who requested her
prayed for; felt to rejoice that these gifts
and blessings were ours.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the great
blessing Sister Zina Young had been to
her. Bore a strong testimony and prayed
she might always be faithful. Sister
Sophia Nuttall spoke of making home
pleasant so children will want to stay
there. Our first thought should be of
our children. Felt that those who were
born in these days had a great work to
do. Sister Zina Card made an announce-
ment about the Exponent, also about
Sister Sorenson and her great work and
that she was trying to form a class here.
Exhorted the sisters to watch their child-
ren and train them. Said dress was noth-
ing in comparison to their virtue and
character. Spoke of treating our hired
help kindly. Said she did not believe in
class distinction, felt that the Spirit of
God was here. Prayed God to bless us
all.
	President Horne made a few closing
remarks. Had a little business to lay be-
fore the sisters, felt it was hardly the
thing to speak of temporal things after
such a feast as we had had.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Do what is right.’’ Benediction
by Sister E. J. Stevenson.
ZINA HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL PLAN OF WORK.

	THE following plan of work for 1896 was recommended by the N. A. W. S. A. at
the annual meeting in Washington, and
was adopted by the convention:
	Believing that the surest path to victory
lies in the united, earnest and harmonious
effort of a great and powerful organization,
based upon the one claim of "No sex in
citizenship," we recommend that the chief
line of work for the coming year shall be
further organization. Last year the Plan
of Work Committee said: We believe that
three things are of Supreme and immediate importance.
1. A practical plan of organization,
which shall unite in State and National
Associations sufficient numbers fairly to re-
present the true status of the question in
the minds of the public.
2. A method to bind the clubs more
closely to the State and National Associa-
tions, and to find a means of keeping every
club organized and alive until the complete
enfranchisement of women shall relieve it
of further responsibilities.
3. Methods to raise money with which
to conduct the necessary organization.
	In 1896 we believe still that these three
things are of "supreme and immediate im-
portance.” We believe the confidence es-
tablished in the possibilities of organization
resulting from the successes of 1895 will in-
spire each member of the Association to
resolve that twice the amount of money
shall be expended for this work in 1896,
and every member should join in the ambi-
tion to assist in producing a double club
membership by the next Annual Meeting
in 1897.
ORGANIZATION.
	We recommend that a standing Commit-
tee on Organization be continued and that
it be nominated by the Business Committee
and elected by the Convention, as last year.
	Through the generosity of our "Lady
Bountiful,” Mrs. Southworth, the N. A.
W. S. A. has been enabled to establish a
headquarters in Philadelphia. We have
long needed a central point from which our
work could be issued, and that we have at
last established a headquarters in a business
block, is a step indicative of increased dig-
nity and prosperity. It is now eminently
proper that as much of the organization
work as possible shall be placed in the
headquarters. We recommend that the
publication and mailing of the Bulletin and
all business connected with it be placed in
the headquarters. We recommend also
the clerical work necessarily arising from
the orders and mailing of the books for the
Course of Study be transferred to Phila-
delphia.
	It has been demonstrated that a compara-
tively large sum is required for clerk hire
in order to do a correspondence necessary
to do efficient field work. If double the
money is to be expended in the field the
coming year, we must expect to pay a sum
proportionately larger for office expenses.
We therefore recommend that a regular
clerk be allowed the Organization Commit-
tee, and that an office be provided by the
Committee convenient to its chairman.
	We recommend that each lecturer em-
ployed by the Organization Committee be
authorized to use the title "Lecturer and
Organizer of the N A. W. S. A.”
	We recommend-that the provisions in the

[Column 2]
Plan Of Work of 1895, that "the plans of
the Committee on Organization shall be
approved by the Business Committee be-
fore being carried into execution,” and
that "the Business Committee shall make
a contract with each organizer employed as
to financial remuneration, ” be adopted for
1896.
	We recommend that the Organization
Committee be instructed to aid in strength- 
ening and increasing the organization of
North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana,
Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and
Oklahoma. These States surround our
nucleus of suffrage States, where the great-
er promise of the early enfranchisement of
women is to be found. The work so well
begun in these States this year should be
continued until all are fitted for campaigns.
We recommend especial attention to Idaho,
where an amendment will be voted on in
November, to Arizona and Oklahoma,
where Constitutional Conventions may be
called during the year, and to Nevada,
where an amendment has passed one Legis-
lature.
	We recommend especial help in organiza-
tion for Delaware, where a Constitutional
Convention is expected soon.
We recommend that each Southern State,
not yet well enough organized to hold a
State Convention and elect its officers by
representation, shall be aided in organiza-
tion; but in the event that any Southern
State decides to hold a Constitutional Con-
vention, the work of the South shall be
concentrated upon that one State. As
Virginia stands at the foot of our list of
States in point of organization we urge es-
pecial help for that State.
	We recommend that each State appoint
an Organization Committee to push the
work of State organization, and we urge
especially that each State, so far as possi-
ble, effect county organization.
WORK FOR CLUBS.
	We recommend, the continuation and
financial support of the Course of Study in
Political Science.
	We recommend the continuation of the
National Suffrage Bulletin, as an econom-
ical and simple method of communication
with the local clubs.
	We recommend that blank-books for
secretaries and treasurers, order-book and
other supplies necessary for local clubs,
shall be kept in stock at the headquarters,
where they can be sold at low rates to all
clubs. We recommend that letter-paper
with a printed head suitable to all local
clubs be provided at headquarters, and sold
to all who desire it
	We recommend that the Business Com-
mittee appoint a committee of three to pre-
pare: a series of booklets on the biographies
of the early leaders of the woman suffrage
movement. These biographies must be
brief enough to be read at a program meet-
ing of any club. We believe a more in-
timate knowledge of the personality, the
character and sacrifices of these leaders will
not only interest all local workers, but will
inspire them with fresh resolutions to serve
our cause. The biographies should be
sold at the local clubs and all others desir-
ing them, at low rates.
	We repeat a recommendation of the
Plan of Work of 1895; For practical work
looking towards legislation, we recommend
1 that each State Association, through its
local clubs and individual workers, shall
gather-from the tax lists of all the counties

[Column 3]
the number of women holding taxable pro-
perty and the amount of taxes paid. This
has already been done in New York and
Kansas, likewise Connecticutt, and the total
amount of taxes paid by women in those
States was a revelation to the public, and
compelled every respector of the Declara-
tion of Independence to believe in woman
suffrage.
	We recommend, further, that in all States
where unjust laws exist concerning wo-
men, the State Association shall endeavor to
secure the revision of those laws. We re-
commend them to agitate for school suffrage,
and in the twenty-three States where this
form of suffrage is enjoyed, to use all their
powers to get out a large vote of women.
Next we urge them to agitate either for
municipal or presidential suffrage. We re-
commend to all States that they defer ask-
ing for a constitutional amendment to be
submitted to popular vote until the State is
well organized, and until there are strong
indications that the chief political parties
will endorse woman suffrage in their plat-
forms.
	We also recommend that each local club
send delegations to each county political
convention, and to each primary when
possible, and that the State Associations
send delegations to each State Political
Convention, and urge upon all of them the
endorsement of women suffrage in their
platforms.
	We recommend that this Association
urge the women throughout the United
States, whether in organizations or out, to
see that delegations or individuals wait on
every man who holds a legislative office, or
is a candidate for such office, to secure his
promise for legislative action favorable to
woman suffrage.
	We recommend that a Committee of
Letter-Writers shall be appointed by the
Business Committee. The persons to serve
on this committee must all possess unusual
gifts in the art of letter writing. One shall
be appointed for each organizer. It will be
her duty to place herself in correspondence
with the new clubs reported to her by that
organizer. She will encourage the new
workers, advise them and help them in all
ways possible. We believe by this means
the local club will be nurtured more care-
fully than heretofore, and that clubs compos-
ed of weak elements may in this manner,
be trained to become independent forces.
FINANCE.
	The Plan of Work Committee estimates
that $10,000 should be expended by the
Organization Department in the coming
year. We believe this amount can be raised
with proper effort. 
	Recognizing the aid the Entertainment
Committee has given to the local clubs in
suggestions of ways to raise money, we
heartily recommend the continuance of that
committee.
	We recommend that each local club in
the United States be appealed to for aid in
the national work of organization. We
recommend that the month of May be
made a "benefit” month for the National
Organization, and we urge local clubs
throughout the nation to give some kind of
entertainment during this month, the pro-
ceeds to go to the National Organization
Fund.
MISCELLANEOUS
	We recommend that brief articles written
by well known individuals shall be furnish-


ed at least once a month, or oftener if possi-
ble, by the headquarters at Philadelphia, to
the Press Committees of the various States
who are willing to receive them. Each
State Committee will ascertain the number
of papers willing to print these letters, and
will send to each a copy which has been
prepared at headquarters. In this way the
article will appear simultaneously all over
the United States, after the manner of a
syndicate letter.
	Our Committee is firmly convinced that,
if this Plan of Work can be carried out
carefully and wisely, our association may
meet at its next Annual Convention proud
in the consciousness of a membership doubt
led and a cause strengthened. Let our
Association know no idlers the coming
year but let it make “a hard pull, a strong
pull, and a pull altogether,” that we may
build an association whose power will be
felt from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and
from Canada to the Gulf.
	Submitted by Plan of Work Committee,
	CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT ,  Chairman.
	ANNA L. DIGGS,			}
	LAURA CLAY,			}	Members
	MARY G. HAY,			}
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	}


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Orangeville ward Relief
Society, to the memory of our beloved Sister
Mary Catherine Anderson, who departed this
life Oct. 10, 1895, at her home in Orangeville,
Emery Co.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in his wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
Catharine Anderson.
	Be it resolved, that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of Him, “Who doeth all
things well.” we do recognize in her death, the
severe loss of a faithful, energetic and efficient
teacher, in our society.
	A true friend to the needy, a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother, and
a true Latter-day Saint, we also recognize in her
faithful labors and devotion to the cause of truth,
an example worthy of emulation of each member
of our society.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her bereaved husband, Brother Swain Anderson,
her children and friends in the loss of a faithful
wife, loving mother and sincere friend. Also
that these resolutions be placed upon the records
of the Orangeville Ward Relief Society and be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a 
copy be sent to the family of our dear departed
sister.
	RODHA E. ROBERTSON, Prest.
	MARY A. SORENSON, Sec.


[Column 1]
	OBITUARIES.

IT becomes the painful duty to record the
death of one of our dear sisters of the Relief
Society.of this Stake of Zion; Sister Mary Larrette
Picton Teasdale, daughter of James and Jane
Phillips Picton and wife of Apostle George Teas-
dale, who died at Colonia Juarez Chihuahua,
Old Mexico, of pulmonary emplysema and
dropsy, Dec. 14th, 1895. Was born at Nephi,
Juab County, Utah, May, 26th, 1863.
	Sister Teasdale leaves a husband and three
children to mourn her loss; one an infant, nine
months old, also her sister’s children, two boys,
and many friends who deeply sympathize with the
family, in their bereavement.
	She held position at time of her decease as
first Counselor to Stake President of Young
Ladies’ Mutual Asnociation, President of Stake
Primary Association and member of Relief
Society. Sister Teasdale was a Latter-day Saint
in very deed, an earnest worker for the cause of
truth, was kind and benevolent to all around her,
and although she suffered much was never heard
to complain. All was done for her that loving
hands could do, but she finally succumbed to the
inevitable; she spoke of her death calmly to a
dear friend a few days previous; and although
leaving an affectionate husband and loving

[Column 2]
children, she felt resigned to the will of her
Heavenly Father; dying firm in the faith of a
glorious resurrection with the Just.
	We recognize in the death of Sister Teasdale,
the loss of a faithful, energetic worker, a friend
to the needy, a comforter in the hour of trouble,
we esteem her faithful labors and devotion to the
interests of Zion as worthy the emulation of every
member of our society. Therefore be it resolved
	That we condole and sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother and sincere
friend.
	Resolved that these resolutions be inscribed
in our Records of the Relief Society, and that we
publish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Gone, dear sister, thou hast left us,
Our Father in wisdom has bereft us;
Gone, to dwell in a higher sphere,
And left us awhile to sojourn here.

Bereft of thee, sister, causes anguish and pain;
But, as, our loss is your infinite gain,
We meekly bow to the chastening rod,
And, acknowledge the hand of the Lord our God.

Husband, children and friends deplore thy loss,
But are seeking nobly to bear their cross,
Knowing that thy salvation’s sure;
As thou didst unto the end endure.

’Tis true the trial is severe,
But we will seek your loved ones to cheer,
And with them bow beneath the Rod,
And seek to serve the Lord our God.

And now thou hast laid thy body down;
And gone to wear a righteous crown,
Our race also, will soon be run,
Our work on earth will soon be done.

What consolation, this doth give—
To know that thou didst nobly live,
O may we ever faithful be,
And share celestial joys with thee.
	H.S.B.

		IN MEMORIAM.
	OF Sister Laura McCleman Whipple, of Vernal,
Arizona, wife of Hyrum Whipple, and daughter
of William and Elsie McCleman, of Colonia Juarez,
who died of liver complaint, at Colonia Juarez
Chihuahua, Old Mexico, Dec. 12, 1895, while on a
visit to her mother. Sister Whipple leaves a
husband and two children, one an infant, to
mourn her loss and many sorrowing relatives and
friends, Sister Whipple was a faithful Latter-day
Saint, whose deeds were worthy of emulation.
We mourn a sister and a friend and deeply
sympathize with the family in their affliction and
resolve that we the officers and members of the
Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with and
seek to cheer the bereaved family in their hour of
trial, and that a copy of these resolutions be
inscribed on the Records of the Relief Society,
and that we publish the same in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. 
			Phoebe Fife, President.
			Hannah Smith Ballinger, Sec..

So, Sister thou hast left us too,
Thy Father called’st, well thou must go,
Thy mission, here below is done,
The victory over death thou hast won.

And now the battle of life with thee is o’er...
Thou wil’t labor here with us no more,
Thou wil’t,labor now in another sphere—
Not forgetting your kindred here.

Husband, children and parents, that loved yo u
well,
Will strive to be faithful,that they may dwell;
Where trouble and anguish and pain are o’er;
Where Satan and sin, can trouble no more.

So now, dear Sister, we bid you farewell, 
We long for the time, when with you we may
dwell. 
We’ll strive true Saints, indeed to be,
To share Celestial Joys with thee. 
	H.S.B.
Colonia Juarez.


QUEEN VICTORIA has. 67 living decend-
ants. And yet they say that if women are
allowed to take part in politics, the human
race will die out!


N.A.W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	Now then do we understand the intricate
problems of state which come up before
us? Is it not wonderful how deep those
problems are as soon as the women want to
have anything to do with them. I had not
had much experience and I did not know
as much about politics as I do now when I
went up to our Legislature with great fear
and trembling in my heart for fear the pro-
blem before us would be so deep and pro-
found, but when I expressed my fear to the
lady who was with me she said undoubted-
ly I could understand it. So we went up 
into the gallery where they keep us women
and the Clerk read something from the
desk and I did not understand a word.
Then a gentleman took the floor, run his
fingers through his hair and I listened with
great eagerness to what he was going to
say and the first word I heard him say was
"fish." He talked for an hour or two.
He declared it was better for the farmers of
Massachusetts, better for the great institu-
tions of Republicanism, better for this mag-
nificent, free and independent government,
that we catch fish on a hook; and the other
side took up their side of the question and
with just as much vehemence declared that
fish ought to be caught with a seine. And
for three days and a half they argued this
deep and profound problem, catching fish,
and then when they put it to a vote, they
decided with a Republican majority to catch
them both ways. (laughter.) I had such
good success that time I thought I would
go back again and the next time I went up
they had the subject of “lobster” under
discussion. They had a lobster there and
were measuring it with a rule, to see how
long a lobster should be allowed to grow
before it should be caught and sold upon
the market. They finally decided that if
any man caught a lobster which did not
measure 10 1/2 inches, he would be fined
$5.00 and two, $10.00. And I said “What
are you going to do with the young lobsters
in the future?” They said they were going
to stay there and they would catch all the
old ones and sell the old and tough ones
that came in. So we got the old lobsters,
and New York got the tender ones. So 
they went on and protected every living
thing on the earth except folks. So we
went up and said: “Now gentlemen, you
have protected the baby fish, how shall
men catch baby boys, one at a time on the
hook or with a snare as they are catching
them in the dens of vice in the cities?" We
had permission to withdraw, and if there is
anything we women know how to do it is
to withdraw. We all went back again and
we said: “Nowgentlemen, you have
protected the baby lobster until it is 10 1/2
inches long, and won't you protect the
baby girl until she is as old as the lobster is
long?" And we said: “Gentlemen, you
have protected all living and breathing
things in the City of Boston, that Athens
of America, that center of culture in the
United States where we have Faneuil Hall,
where we have a school of philosophy,
where we have a John L. Sullivan and
where we have a greater portion of the cul-
ture that this nation has been able to pro-
duce.” We said: Now you have protected
everything can’t you protect beaten wives
for we have 2,000 cases of cruel wife beat-
ing every year in the slums of the City; and
I was a dispensing physician. The bill we


[Column 1]
drew up was the best bill I ever saw and it
read like this: “Any man who brutally
beats his wife shall be beaten in turn and
sentenced to not more than 40 nor less than
20 days." Some one said “Miss Shaw,
you are a missionary.” I said “Yes.”
Would you like to see such a man then go
to a home and see the poor little woman
who was dying, and when her husband
came home he wanted her to get right up
and get his supper. He caught her by the
hair and dragged her out of the bed on the 
floor and then kicked her with his great
boots until she was almost insensible; and
what was done to that man. He was sent
up for sixty days to the Island. This hap-
pened along in May. Now this Island is a 
beautiful spot in Boston Harbor. There is
a building upon the Island, one of the most
beautiful buildings—it was a contract
building. (Laughter.) That was where
they sent him and he was given a room all
to himself and three straight meals a day
and the gentle zephyrs of the Atlantic
fanned his fevered brow; he spent the hot
summer months in that delightful way,
while his wife got a chance to stay at home
and take care of the children and earn a
living for him. Now we wanted him to be
punished. When a man gets to be so
brutal and so beastly that he beats a woman
and so cowardly that he beats a woman be-
cause she can’t beat him back, then they
put him on the road breaking stones and
they pay his wages to his wife to support
the family, and on Saturday night they
lock him up in jail and on Monday morning
set him to work again breaking stones.
This is the plan that is adopted by one of
our states. If I could have a say in that
beating law I would set him to breaking
stones and when he would use his muscle
up on stones he would not beat his wife.
Then they gave us permission to withdraw.
As we women were going out we met
several men, we learned they were a com-
mittee from the Milk Dealers Association of
the State of Massachusetts they wanted pro-
tection for their milk cans—they had been
followed up by some people who had been
stealing the milk out of the cans and had
battered the cans all up. So these men
got protection just three hours after their
bill was taken up. I never can remember
anything exactly, I never could memorize
anything but that bill was something like
this: “Any person or persons who inter-
feres with the milk cans or who will erase
the name of the owner of a milk can from
the milk can of the milk dealer or milk
dealers or defaces a milk can owned by a
milk man or a milk dealer or milk dealers
shall be fined not to exceed $100.00 or
three months imprisonment. Exactly word
for word the same as the fine imposed on a
man for brutally beating his wife is the fine
imposed for mutilating a milk can and these
men got the milk bill passed so easily and I
said to them: “Why is it that you can get
your milk cans protected.” And they said:
“We are a committee from a great organiza-
tion and if this legislature had not passed a
bill which was so just in the interests of our
business, every man there knows he would
be defeated next year and some other man
would come up in his place. So we per-
-ceived that if the women of Massachusetts
had the right to vote, their bill too in refer-
ence to wife beating would have been
passed. It is the power of the ballot that
wins. Why is it that the great politicians
of the west who desire to go to congress

[Column 2]
nearly break their necks trying to show the
people of this country that every man be-
lieves in silver. Why didn’t they ten years
ago? Simply because silver has organized
itself into a political power that is all, and
today the man who has any political am-
bitions must be a firm advocate of silver or
else his political ambitions are dead. Every
time we have attempted to do anything or
to get anything or to get any law changed
to benefit the condition of women we have
always had to go to men. Why did it take
us women in Massachusetts three years to
get a bill passed which enabled a married
woman to own her own clothes. When a
woman is married does she not earn her
board and clothes and her husband must be
the judge of the kind of clothes she must
wear and after she has earned her own
clothes they don’t belong to her. She
thought she was wearing her own clothes
but she was not, she was wearing her
husband's clothes all the time. We never
did find out what the law was until we had
a lawsuit. A lady traveling over the
Boston and Albany Railway lost a trunk
full of clothes. She brought suit against
the company and the defense made by the
Railway Company was that she was a mar-
ried woman and consequently she could not
have lost any clothes because a married wo-
man’s wardrobe belongs to her husband.
	If it is true that a married woman does
not own her own clothes and it took us
three years to find it out in Massachusetts,
one half of the women in the United
States to day do not own their own clothes.
It took us just ten years to get a bill passed
to bury widows and during all that time we
went on burying widows just as we bury
widowers until a certain mother-in-law de-
cided the widow should never be buried be-
side her son, and the widow went on and
the mother-in-law served an injunction and
to the amazement of everybody no widow
had ever been legally buried in the State,
and no widow was entitled to be buried in a
family burying ground. A widow is en-
titled to a life interest in one third of a
cemetery lot and a life use of a cemetery
lot is of no especial use to anybody.
(Laughter.) We climbed up Beacon Hill
for ten consecutive years buttonholing the
members smiling and arguing and talking
by the yard to make those men see the rea-
sonableness of a widow to be buried until
she had the good sense to die. I never
knew before why the old cod-fish had been
suspended over the speaker’s desk—but in
the old room it hung suspended from the
dome. They put it up there so the women
would have something to look at. So for
ten years we sat up in the gallery gazing on
the big stuffed cod-fish and down on the
little stuffed cod fish below (laughter) and
finally when the bill was passed we began to
bury widows—of course we could not bury
them before, they all had to wait until the
bill was passed. It was not gallantry nor
courtesy nor chivalry that prompted them
to pass the bill, it was because we worried
the life out of them and that was the only
way they saw to get rid of us. So long as
he law regulates everything that touches
our lives why have we not the right to ex-
press our will and our wishes in regard to
the laws. So long as politics meddle with
us—so long as the law meddles with us so
long have we the right to meddle with it
(applause.) If you ask me why we wo-
men want the ballot I say because the bal-
lot is able to regulate and control things.

[Column 3]
The reason why I want the ballot is because
I am a human being—I have the right to
life a right to the pursuit of happiness and
the right to liberty and if I have a right to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness I
have a right to the power that protects my
life and protects me in the pursuit of hap-
piness and liberty in this country and that
power is the ballot and the ballot alone.
(Appluse.)
	Adjourned at 10-30 to meet at the As-
sembly Hall, Tuesday morning at 10
o’clock.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.
	THE high standard of Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp's School of Obstetrics is evidenced by
the large numbers that attend her classes, 
their superior attainments, and their suc-
cessful practical work throughout the state
of Utah and in adjacent states and territories.
The winter session is now near its close and
on April 21st begins the spring and summer 
session.
	Because of the growing demand for ef-
ficient nurses and competent accoucheurs
the doctor devotes more of her time to the
instruction of her pupils, at the same time
has made special prices to societies who
have interested themselves in this philan-
thropic work.
	Those desiring to take up this study
would do well to communicate with Dr.
Shipp at 18. Main St. Salt Lake City, either
personally or by letter.


MRS. BELLE ARMSTRONG WHITNEY has
taked entire editorial control of the Jenness-
Miller Monthly, from which Mrs. Miller
has retired.
	THE fifth annual Continental Congress of
the Daughters of the American Revolution
opened at Washington, D. C., Feb. 19.
The president general, Mrs. John W.
Foster, wife of the ex-Secretary of State,
reported that within six months, fifty-seven
societies had been organized, 4,700 applica-
tions for membership received, and 700 en-
rolled. The building of a continental
memorial hall in Washington was advocated.
Mrs. U. S. Grant was mentioned as one of
the new members. Mrs. Letitia Green
Stevenson, the wife of Vice-president
Stevenson, was elected president general.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 238, East, 4th South.
Telephone 383.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St..
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

