[Vol28 | April 1941 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: A Doctor Challenges D]
A Doctor Challenges Alcohol T. J. Howells, M. D. Health Commissioner, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Member of Utah State Board of Health
I am tired of making alibis for alcohol. I am sick of signing death certificates when the real villain behind the scene is whiskey. I make no apologies for alcohol. It is a drug, a poison. It has a definite place in medicine and in industry, but it was never intended to be used as a beverage.
Some months ago, on the operating table in the Emergency hospital lay a young man. A police officer held an arm and kept the boy on the table. He was a fine-looking fellow in his early twenties, and a boy that any man would be proud to call "son." His girl companion was across the hall in the morgue. It was an automobile accident, and she was dead when the officers arrived upon the scene. The boy suffered from a rather large scalp wound, a few broken ribs and other minor injuries. It was evident from his actions that he was only partly conscious because of incoherent statements he was making and a rather low, muttering delirium that came from his lips. It took only a casual examination to reveal the fact that it was neither pain nor shock that caused this unconsciousness, but that it was the delirium of alcohol.
Interesting is the fact that later in court witnesses testified that his girl companion did not drink. I am sick of caring for accidents, alleviating pain, patching people up, attending at the bedside of the dying, trying to comfort friends and relatives when the reason behind the tragedy is the drug and poison of alcohol. The law requires that after every death, violent or natural, a certificate must be made out by the attending physician.
This important document is filed and often appears in court. It must give both the main cause of death and, wherever possible, name the contributing cause, also.
During the last few years, I have signed several such death certificates where the car had failed to make the curve, the car ran into a truck, or the driver missed the bridge.
They were all accidents contributing to the death of young people who were riding in automobiles. The death certificate read: "fractured skull," "internal injuries," or a "broken back," and the contributing cause of death read, and correctly so in each case, "automobile accident." And while it did not appear upon the record, yet each casualty was definitely traceable to the effects of the drug, alcohol. WE’VE done a good job in America with the drugs, morphine, codine, and heroin, and yet they were never as dangerous as alcohol. Today, you rarely see on the streets a drug habitue, and yet each morning's paper brings you the news of a disaster following some brain befuddled with alcohol while the toe rests upon the accelerator of a 95- horsepower automobile. It is sad that the young people 242 of America liave not yet learned in all of their study of chemistry that they cannot mix alcohol and gasoline. I am sorry they cannot see that the contributing cause in this great chapter of automobile accidents is too often "a couple of drinks." It is high time that we should strip this "killer" of its dangerous romance, its alluring garb, and pin the blame where it belongs, and show it up for what it is—a drug and a poison. It is an indictment against the American people that some of our smartest magazines carry advertisements of alluring and deceiving propaganda for this national "killer." I apologize to youth that artists paint deceiving pictures and that naturefakers and would-be athletes receive money for lying testimonials as to the value of this drug as a beverage. In the hospital room of the county jail recently, four young men, seventeen years of age, were confined and awaiting sentence for killing pedestrians while driving automobiles. Two of the young men admitted and showed evidence of drinking whiskey.
There was some question about the third, and the fourth, beyond a doubt, was sober. I have felt that young men are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 194) generally better drivers than the old, that there is quicker coordination between the muscles and brain of youth, than of age, and that, therefore, they are safer drivers.
This poison, alcohol, slows the coordination of the brain and muscles; and the fact that four young men were at the mercy of the court awaiting judgment for having killed pedestrians is surely a challenge against this drug and the driving of youth.
Because of the peculiar nervous mechanism and a certain instability, youth is more susceptible to the action and effects of whiskey. We have been slow to convict our drunken drivers, but now with the aid of the Drunkometer and the Laboratory's determination of the amount of alcohol in the blood, we are convicting more than go per cent of them.
Part of the remaining 10 per cent are proved guilty by the disaster that follows in the wake of their wild rides. I can prove by hospital records, and without fear of contradiction, that 80 per cent of the fatal automobile accidents occurring in America are due to this drug circulating in the blood and brain of young people, too often indifferent, overprivileged and trying to show off. “THERE is nothing so hard and difficult as driving a racing automobile against time. On the Salt Flats in Utah, hour after hour, alone and locked in, I have endured this grueling test, the temperature in the car almost boiling, with mirage by day and flares by night to confuse and deceive me.
