[Vol28 | April 1941 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Pohlman]
Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.
Special Membership Activities
Gridley Stake (Yuba City, California)
Ruthe B. Samson, president of Gridley Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture of an oil painting by Phebe Carlin, member of the Relief Society stake board, which portrays the stake's membership peach tree. Each limb of the tree represents a ward or branch, and each peach a member of Relief Society. The artist adds a new peach to the picture as new members are enrolled. This painting, which measures about four feet by five feet, is displayed at union meetings. The painting is representative of the area in which Gridley Stake is located. In the background are the Sutter Buttes, a geographical freak in the Sacramento Valley, said to be the shortest range of mountains in the world. The Gridley Stake, which is composed of a Church population scattered through five counties, contributes to the Church welfare program by operating peach-canning centers.
Chicago Stake (Chicago, Illinois)
The University Ward demonstrates, by means of the clever exhibit shown in the accompanying picture, the efforts to reach, by 1942, the membership goal of 100,000 members. The ladders, by means of which members of the Society climb toward higher objectives of growth and service and attract the enrollment of additional members, are social welfare, homemaking, visiting teaching, literature, theology and social activities. Up these ladders of endeavor, toy figures strive to carry aloft the actual numerals which will change to reality the shadowy potential membership of 100,000. Lois E. Astin is president of Relief Society in Chicago Stake, and Emma Johnson is president of the Society in the University Ward.
Carbon Stake (Price, Utah)
The Carbon Stake Relief Society, of which Belle Johnson is president, held a reception and inspirational pageant, January 24, 1941, marking the close of a year of successful activity in the interest of increased membership with a 10 per cent gain during the year 1940, and a total increase of 60 per cent over the enrollment as of December 31, 1937. Following are excerpts from Mrs. Johnson's letter:
"We feel well satisfied with this report because we find more interest generally and a higher type of activity all over the stake, which we feel is due to closer contact during the drive and fresh ideas and talents of new members combined with the staunch faith and untiring efforts of old members. We closed our drive with a reception held January 24. The pageant was very inspirational and was followed by refreshments. The stake presidency met with us and they were well satisfied with our efforts.
"Our theme for this year's work was taken from the 'Save the Wealth Plan' used by the General Board at the general Relief Society conference in April, 1940. We closed with a pageant based on the theme of 'Onward and Upward Toward 1942.' There were a number of skits this year sent in by ward members which we will recognize in our union meetings."
Enclosed with the letter was the full text of the pageant, and of the winning themes and skits submitted by the various wards. Also enclosed were outlines of material presented at the monthly union meetings in the membership workers' department, giving indication of the enthusiasm and thoroughness with which this stake has planned its enlistment work and followed up its initial efforts.
These outlines are outstanding for their comprehensive approach to the assignment of building membership and for their recognition of the value of cooperation, not only of membership workers and officers, but of every enrolled member of the Society. The plans also emphasize means of stimulating the attendance of enrolled members, furthering acquaintanceship, and the importance of friendliness and sociability. In fact, the officers attribute much success to so simple an expedient as general adoption of the parting greeting, "See you next Tuesday." The various wards of the stake have shown considerable ingenuity in their development of local programs for enlisting the interest of prospective members and stimulating attendance at Relief Society meetings.
Yellowstone Stake (St. Anthony, Idaho)
The first outstanding event of the 1940-41
Relief Society season in Yellowstone Stake, where Ellen J. Murray is stake president of Relief Society, was a stake membership party held on the banks of the river. The program, which was entirely original, included songs and poems composed by members. Four prizes were awarded, as follows: a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the member who had traveled the greatest distance (35 miles) to attend the party; a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the mother with the most daughters present who were enrolled members of Relief Society; a one-year subscription to the oldest member present; and one of the literature course books to the ward with the most prospective members in attendance. Membership parties were also held in wards on the first Tuesday in October, where the coming year's work was presented through the medium of original skits. An original pageant, "What Membership in the Relief Society Means to Us," written by Ada B. Christenson, was presented as a feature of the Relief Society conference held in each ward of the stake. An interesting achievement of the Yellowstone Stake Relief Society during the past year was the float entered in the Pioneer Day parade, July 24, commemorating "Fifty Years of Statehood" for Idaho, which won first prize.
