[Vol28 | April 1941 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Some Literary Friends Hyde]
a  dear  friend.  Some  of  the  new  fa- 
vorites are  the  Doctor,  Eternal 
Youth,  Dainty  Bess,  Dickson's  Red, 
Rex  Anderson,  Eclipse,  Will  Rog-

246 
RELIEF    SOCIETY    MAGAZINE— APRIL.     1941 
ers,  and  Matador.  Ever-bloommg 
Floribuiida  roses  are  very  popular. 
They  are  prolific  bloomers,  making 
a  mass  of  color  all  summer.  These 
should  be  planted  in  groups,  among 
shrubs  or  along  borders.  World's 
Fair,  Permanent  Wave  and  Anne 
Poulsen  climbing  roses  are  splendid 
when  planted  in  the  right  place. 
T^HE  garden  that  is  well  planned 
will  have  a  maximum  of  bloom- 
ing flowers  all  summer.  Thought  is 
required  to  keep  continuous  blooms, 
especially  during  the  hot  months. 
Real  garden  enthusiasts  are  those 
who  look  ahead,  who  work  and 
plan.  They  don't  get  discouraged 
when  the  weeds  begin  to  grow  and 
the  days  get  hot. 
Annuals  assure  continuous  blooms 
throughout  the  summer.  Don't  fail 
to  invest  in  a  few  packages  of  seeds.' 
Gladiola  bulbs  planted  at  different 
times  and  blooming  at  intervals  of 
a  few  weeks  are  desirable. 
Perennials  are  invaluable  in  any 
garden.  The  following  faithfully  pre- 
sent their  blooms  in  the  spring  time 
year  after  year:  the  crocus,  primrose, 
forget-me-not,  bleeding  heart,  mer- 
tensia  (the  old-fashioned  bluebell), 
and  pansies,  which  are  being  im- 
proved every  year.  All  that  pansies  re- 
quire is  loamy  soil,  plenty  of  water, 
and  frequent  picking.  Spring  time  is 
tulip  time,  and  what  beautiful  effects 
are  possible  if  bulbs  are  planted  with 
care!  Groupings  in  front  of  shrubs, 
by  steps,  or  long  drifts  along  foun- 
dations are  preferred.  Tulip  bulbs 
can  be  put  in  various  places  through- 
out the  garden  to  brighten  it.     Be 
^See  "From  Seed-Packets  to  Blossoming 
Flowers,"  by  Hazel  D.  Moyle,  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  April,  1940,  p.  217. 
careful  to  combine  the  right  colors, 
using  those  that  complement  each 
other. 
Flowers  that  will  thrive  in  the 
shade  are  always  in  demand.  Some 
of  these  are  phlox,  lily  of  the  valley, 
columbine,  which  has  an  attractive 
foliage  all  summer,  and  Sweet 
Woodruff,  a  white,  delicately-scent- 
ed flower,  that  will  do  well  under 
trees.  By  all  means  include  iris— Si- 
berian, Japanese,  and  German.  Ger- 
man Iris  is  a  hardy,  dependable, 
beautiful  flower  that  cannot  be  over- 
rated. Resolve  to  add  a  new  iris  each 
year.  The  tuberous-rooted  begonia  is 
a  shade-loving  flower  that  is  becom 
ing  very  popular.  The  delicate,  waxy 
blooms  come  in  various  shades.  The 
bulbs  are  started  inside  in  pots,  then 
transplanted  after  all  danger  of 
frost  is  past.  These  must  have  abso- 
lute shade.  Pots  may  be  sunk  in  the 
ground. 
We  would  all  do  well  to  grow 
more  white  flowers.  They  give  the 
impression  of  size,  blend  well  with 
other  plants,  and  look  cool  and  re- 
freshing. Some  beautiful  white 
flowers  are:  snapdragons,  candytuft, 
phlox.  Madonna  Lilies,  petunias  and 
alvssum. 
The  Japanese  Anemone  brings  the 
spirit  of  spring  in  September.  It  likes 
morning  sun  and  does  well  in  loamy 
soil  and  well-rotted  manure.  Ane- 
mone roots  spread  and  will  soon  fur- 
nish many  plants.  These  flowers 
come  in  pink,  lavender  and  pure 
white  and,  growing  on  long,  strong 
stems,  they  are  splendid  for  cut  flow- 
ers. Don't  fail  to  plant  them.  Chrys- 
anthemums are  another  favorite  of 
autumn.  Great  strides  are  being 
made  in  their  development,  so  keep 
up  to  date.

Identical  lots  and  houses  are  shown  above,  but  that  on  the  left  is  planted  with  no 
plan  nor  forethought,  while  that  on  the  right  shows  all  the  material  in  the  other  garden 
arranged  for  beauty,  use  and  charm.  The  legend  for  both  sketches  is:  A — trellis,  C — chair, 
E — evergreen,  F — flowers,  P — pool,  R — roses,  RG — rock  garden,  S — shrubs,  ST — shade 
tree,  V — vegetable  garden,  T — table,  W — walk.  (Sketch,  Courtesy  Maud  Chegwidden 
and  Salt  Lake  Tribune.) 
npHE  rock  garden  will  be  a  great  ad- 
dition to  any  garden  if  built  and 
planted  correctly.  Follow  the  dic- 
tates of  nature— be  natural.  The 
rocks  must  be  practically  covered 
with  soil.  Too  often  they  have  the 
appearance  of  just  a  pile  of  rocks. 
Sabina  Juniper,  Mugho  Pine,  and 
the  prostrate  growing  shrubs  which 
are  hardy  and  graceful  are  appropri- 
ate for  rock  gardens.  Purple  Aubrie- 
tia  Alyssum,  columbine,  violas,  for- 
get-me-nots, tulips,  and  numerous 
other  plants  are  suitable. 
The  lily  pool  affords  a  point  of  in- 
terest. If  you  cannot  afford  a  large 
one,  just  sink  a  tub  in  the  earth. 
plant  your  lilies  and  add  a  few  gold- 
fish for  interest.  Water-lilies  thrive 
best  in  rather  murky  water. 
By  all  means  make  room  for  an 
herb  garden.  They  are  valuable  for 
their  sweet  smells,  savory  odors,  and 
as  seasoning  for  food.  Parsley,  mint, 
chives,  sage  or  horse-radish,  growing 
close  to  the  kitchen  door,  are  most 
useful.  Lavender  has  a  purple  flower 
and  is  used  in  making  sachet.  Lemon 
Verbena,  Bergamot,  and  Spicy  Pink 
are  old  favorites. 
Fortunate  is  the  family  that  has 
access  to  a  vegetable  garden.  Vege- 
tables taste  so  good  when  they  are 
fresh.

248 
RELIEF    SOCIETY    MAGAZINE— APRIL,    1941 
If  you  live  in  a  hot,  dry  locality, 
have  a  cacti  garden.  They  are  beau- 
tiful and  very  interesting.  There  are 
over  five  hundred  known  varieties 
of  cacti. 
Yes,  everyone  should  have  a  gar- 
den. Make  the  most  of  your  sur- 
roundings and  conditions.  There 
are  lovely  shrubs  and  plants  suited 
to  every  locality.     Plant  w^hat  w^ill 
thrive;  get  the  joy  and  satisfaction 
that  comes  from  growling  things. 
Make  gardening  your  hobby.  Sur- 
prises and  satisfaction  will  await  you 
every  day.  The  seed  you  planted 
may  have  sent  a  tiny  shoot  toward 
the  sunlight  or  a  bud  may  have  burst 
into  bloom. 
Your   garden   will    always    be   a 
peaceful  retreat. 
H^- 
MY  FRIENDLY  GARDEN 
Delia  Adams  Leitner 
My  garden  is  a  friendly  place. 
And,  oh,  so  neighborly; 
Folks  stop  to  chat  awhile  and  show 
Their  comradship  with  me. 
We  love  to  talk  about  the  flowers. 
And  oftentimes  we  find 
Some  other  bonds  of  interest— 
A  kindredship  of  mind. 
Here  in  exchange  of  new  ideas 
And  better  ways  to  do. 
Are  seeds  of  happy  friendships  sown 
That  bear  their  blossoms,  too. 
The  understanding  flowers  respond 
To  all  the  care  I  give. 
And  so  my  garden  shows  me  how 
The  friendly  life  to  live. 
^

Out  Of  The  Darkness 
Edith  Smith  Elliott 
Relief  Society  General  Board  Member 
"Through  faith  I  create  the  world  I  gaze  upon,  I  make  my  own  day  and  night,  tint 
the  clouds  with  iridescent  fires,  and  behold!  midnight  is  strewn  with  stars." — Helen  Keiier. 
l\rHEN  I  was  a  little  girl,  my 
mother  took  me  to  hear  and  see 
Helen  Keller.  She  appeared  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square, 
where  her  teacher  and  companion 
told  us  that  Miss  Keller  was  born 
down  in  Alabama,  a  perfectly  nor- 
mal child.  When  the  baby  was  only 
nineteen  months  old,  she  was  strick- 
en with  a  severe  illness  which  left  her 
sightless  and  deaf,  and  because  she 
could  hear  no  speech  or  sound,  she 
was  unable  to  imitate  either.  The 
only  way  she  could  communicate 
with  her  family  was  through  mo- 
tions. She  learned  early  to  smack  her 
lips  when  she  wanted  candy. 
When  Helen  was  six  and  one-half 
years  old,  Anne  Sullivan  of  Boston 
went  to  her  home  to  see  if  she  could 
help  the  child.  A  great  affection 
grew  up  between  them,  and  Miss 
Sullivan  gained  the  little  girl's  con- 
fidence, which  made  the  teaching 
and  learning  more  simple. 
As  the  child  could  neither  see, 
hear,  nor  speak.  Miss  Sullivan  gave 
her  a  lovely  doll  and  had  her  feel 
it  carefully.  Then  in  the  language  of 
the  deaf,  she  spelled  out  "D-O-L-L'' 
on  Helen's  hand.  In  this  way  she 
taught  her  the  names  of  objects. 
After  Miss  Keller  had  mastered 
the  sign  language  and  had  learned  to 
read  Braille,  Miss  Sullivan  explained 
to  Helen  that  she  spoke  with  her 
lips  and  made  sounds  with  her  voice. 
Helen  then  wondered  if  she  could 
learn   to   speak   this   way.    So   she 
placed  her  fingers  on  Miss  Sullivan's 
lips  and  felt  the  vibrations  of  her 
nose  and  throat  as  she  spoke,  and  by 
some  miracle  of  interpretation  learn- 
ed to  say  ''it."  She  was  an  apt  stu- 
dent, so  eager  to  learn,  and  as  time 
went  on,  she  managed  to  say  a  whole 
sentence.  She  ran  to  her  parents  and 
said,  'Tm  not  dumb  now!" 
Miss  Keller  has  had  a  splendid 
education.  She  is  a  graduate  of  Rad- 
cliffe  College  and  holds  the  degree, 
''Doctor  of  Philosophy."  Alexander 
Graham  Bell  took  a  great  interest  in 
Miss  Keller's  achievements  and  set 
up  a  trust  fund  in  her  name  so  that 
she  could  continue  her  educational 
activities. 
When  Miss  Sullivan  died,  a  new 
companion  was  found  for  Miss  Kel- 
ler. She  is  Miss  Polly  Thomson,  a 
most  gracious,  charming,  intelligent, 
Scotch-born  lady.  She  is  devoted  to 
Miss  Keller  and  is  very  proud  of  her 
accomplishments. 
T  DON'T  know  of  anything  that 
has  impressed  me  more  than  the 
evening  I  spent  at  that  Helen  Keller 
lecture.  All  through  my  girlhood, 
when  obstacles  came  my  way,  I  said 
to  myself,  "If  Helen  Keller  has  been 
able  to  overcome  so  many  handicaps, 
surely  I  can  master  this  situation." 
This  thought  has  given  me  both 
faith  and  courage.  She  has  helped 
all  mankind  similarly,  whether  they 
have  met  her  personally  or  just  read