[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: ALPINE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		ALPINE STAKE.
	The tenth quarterly conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, July 30,
1903, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Sister Carrie
S. Thomas, of the general board were pres-
ent. President Rebecca Standring presiding.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few appropriate remarks
and called for reports from the several
President’s in the Stake. Reports were
very encouraging, every society being
represented, love, unity and harmony pre-
vailing. Sister Carrie S. Thomas, spoke of
many things, in reference to mothers work,
she said, it is no new work, our teachers
have taught us these things all the time.
	Our daughters need not be without these
teachings if we have missed them. Sister
Thomas spoke upon faith and the confidence
we have in our religion and in our Heavenly
Father. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had many
happy recollections of Lehi and her youth-
ful days passed near there, but then there
were no such gatherings as we have now,
exhorted the sisters to have the young
women join the Relief Society and aid in

[Column 3]
the work; the education of the Gospel
brings out the best points in our character:
and makes us better wives and mothers.
	Afternoon session. Connselor Harriet
Jacobs addressed the conference, dwelling
upon the testimony, of the truth and the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, re-
ferred to the Saints in California and the
good work being done there by our people;
reminded the sisters it was time to be gath-
ering the wheat, and of the necessity of
taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; it was a
valuable paper and the sisters should sup-
port it. Sister Shipp said, what would the
world have thought a hundred years ago to
see this great body of women assembled
and transacting business, bringing out the
spiritual and intellectual abilities and tal-
ents? It is grand that we have this great
change; urged the sisters to take the EX-
PONENT, felt it was necessary to their de-
velopment; dwelt earnestly upon home in-
fluence and attractions, good books and
music, order and obedience, and in fact
mentioned every good thing and all that
would tend to a fuller and more complete
life here and hereafter. Sister Thomas
thought the girls should thank the Lord
every day for this society and the associa-
tions and opportunites we have to obtain
knowledge, she pleaded earnestly with the
sisters to take the EXPONENT; spoke beauti-
fully concerning the training of children
and of retaining their confidence.
	President Stephen L. Chipman endorsed
the remarks of the sisters, their words had 
been in due season, the presidency of the
stake fully appreciated the labors of the
Relief Society and the willing sacrifices
these sisters made. President James H.
Clarke, felt parents were much to blame in
the training of the children; these subjects
could not be dwelt upon too seriously,
thought the meeting had been profitable,
we should seek the spirit of God to aid us
in all our labors in life. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
