[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: Notes | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Sarah Rumley, mother of the late
Walter Q. Gresham, Secretary of State
under President Cleveland, celebrated her
101st birthday at New Albany, Ind., Sept.
5, in the same house to which she came a
bride more than seventy-six years ago. A
fine dinner was spread for nearly one hund-
red guests, all Mrs. Rumley’s relatives.
Despite her great age, Mrs Rumley is active
and vigorous. One year ago she prepared a
fine birthday dinner unaided for a number
of guests.
	It is time the old fallacy of woman’s in-
ferior physical ability was abandoned. Miss
Annie S. Peck, an American woman, has
just ascended the highest mountain peak in
the Western hemisphere, a feat which had
baffled all previous explorers. A letter dated
La Pas, Bolivia, states that while her com-
panion, Prof. W. G. Tight, of the University
of New Mexico, was somewhat the worse
for an ascent of 14,666 feet in 30 hours,
Miss Peck had experienced only a slight
headache. This is an illustration of the
surprising power of endurance displayed by
apparently slight and delicate women. If
our girls are too often invalids, the fact is
due to want of proper conditions and a lack
of wholesome food, fresh air, exercise, and
muscular development.
	Mrs. D. York Syme has set a good ex-
ample to other women with large reception
rooms in initiating a series of “Political
Teas,” with the object of educating women
on current politics and the use they may
make of the Federal vote, says the Austra-
lian Woman’s Sphere of Melbourne. The
first tea was given on July 27, when about
150 women were present. Mrs. Evelyn
Gough presided, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Senators Glassey and Staniforth
Smith.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
