Vol. 24.          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1895. 		No. 2.


CONTENTS:

	Bishop O. F. Whitney—Remarks made at the
Tabernacle Sunday May 12, 1895. Woman Suf-
frage Column. Appeal to the Armenians. Lit-
erary Society—Caroline A. Crocheron. Woman
in Journalism—Lizzie Wilcox. R. S. & P. A.
Reports. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—President Young’s Birthday,
Letter From Lorenzo D. Young. Editorial Notes.
Lost Arts—Annie Wells Cannon.
	POETRY:—In Memoriam—L.A. Crandell. Ma-
ternal Influence N. C. Pennock. Affectionately
Inscribed To My Husband. Woman’s Place—
Belle Taylor.


IN MEMORIAM.

[Emily-Thornton Charles, of the Woman’s Na-
tional Press Association, died April 25, 1895.]
	One of the rare, sweet poets,
		Whose genius the pulses thrill,
	Whose inner life, with beauty rife
		Illumines the portals still.

	One of the strong, brave poets, 
		Whose soul with its love aflame 	
	With loyal youth, crowned regal truth
		In her country’s deathless fame.” 

	One of the loving poets, 
		Who the tender heart could reach
	Through rhythmic thought, that solace
			brought
		Beyond the power of speech,

	We yield our homage to thee, 
		We garland thy memory o’er,
	And loose thy hand, for angel band
		To clasp on the farther shore.
			L. A. Crandell, W. N. P. A.
Washington, D. C.					Ex.


MATERNAL INFLUENCE.
			BY M. C. PENNOCK.
THE subtle forces ruling Church and State
	Spring mainly from a mother’s molding will:
	The look, the touch, the burning words that
		thrill
Her crowing babe, its after years translate 
	In ruling deeds of public good or ill.
Would you the future of the State, direct?
	Guard well its nursery; watch the heart and
head
	That bend, in care, above its trundle bed.
Whose dimpled darlings mirror-like reflect
	All images before their vision spread
O mother, mistress of the world’s heart strings!
	Thy touch can wake “the music of the spheres”
	Thy lessons drench this earth in blood and tears
Thy cradle-song, clear as a bugle, rings 
	Down the long vista of succeeding years!
But could thy hand, so strong to point the way
	Directly strike the chords that voice the State;
	Less discords, then, would on our senses grate,
More potent still would prove thy magic sway
	To aid the right, and banish vice and hate. 
Alliance, O.							Ex.


THREE very prominent women are de-
sirous of coming to Utah to deliver lectures
in the Territory.


[Column One]

BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.
[Remarks made at the large Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, Sunday, May 12,1895.]
	Was the next speaker. He said “To
what I owe the distinguished honor that has
been placed upon me in being asked to fol-
low the eloquent ladies who have already
addressed you, I know not; particularly
am I at a loss to account for it, when I
think of the many able men and women by
whom I am surrounded, and who are better
qualified to interest and edify you on this
occasion than myself. Nevertheless I am
here to speak as God shall give me utter-
ance, trusting that I may have the Holy
Spirit, that I may say nothing that is un-
true, that is unwise, or that is not kind and
charitable.
	While the first lady was speaking, and 
when she mentioned the name of an im-
mortal poet whose genuis I much admire, 
my mind recalled the words of another 
poet who was his friend, who survived him, 
and who spoke these words concerning
him. 
Like an archangel, exiled for dark crimes, 
His spirit walked the earth in scorn and gloom, 
And where it smote, it smote like the simoom, 
Deadly, though beautiful. Yet there were times
*	*	*	*	when his great soul shone out 
In all the primal glory of its light. 
His songs were then remembrances of heaven, 
Dashed with a scoffing spirit at that earth
In which he seemed constrained to live. 
	I am not only an admirer of the genius
of Byron, but I agree with his friend Rogers, 
that there were times when his soul lifted 
itself above the clouds and mists of earth, 
and remembered some of that song which 
he was expected to sing for the betterment
and blessing of mankind. And when I 
contemplated these noble women, these
queens of thought, who have addressed us 
with so much eloquence and truth- when I 
thought of the opprobrium that has been 
heaped upon  them and their cause, their
names bandied about by every ribald
tongue, their purposes misunderstood, 
and themselves hated and despised per-
haps by men who are their inferiors, unable
to understand that motives that animate their
souls- I thought of the sublime words of
Byron:—-
He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow; 
He who surpasses or subdues mankind, 
Must look down on the hate of those below. 
Though high above the sun of glory glow, 
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread, 
Round him are icy rocks, and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head. 
And thus reward the toils which to those summits
	led. 
	But there is this consolation, which these
champions of equal rights may take to 
themselves, which we may all cherish and 
derive some comfort from, and that is, that 
this is the treatment which has always been 
meted out to those who came to bless the 
world, to lift up mankind, to teach a new

[Column two] 
doctrine destined to ameliorate the condition
of the race. Prophets, poets, philosophers, 
sages, reformers of every description- the 
world has not bowed down to them, has 
not placed upon their brows the laurel
wreath, has not showered blessings upon
them while living. It has ever been that 
the living prophets were despised and 
trampled upon, while the sepulchres of the 
dead prophets were garnished; but it shall yet
be with this cause, as with every other cause
which holds within it the truth; the stone
which the builders rejected shall become the 
head of the corner. 
	When I was first notified that I would be 
expected to say a few words after these
ladies had spoken, I thought a similar
thought to one that has been expressed; I 
said to myself, what can I say? It is true I 
am better acquainted with this congrega-
tion than my lady friends, and the people
generally are better acquainted with me. 
Still I wondered what I should say after
their eloquence had entranced you. There 
were three ideas that came to my mind, and 
they were suggested by two passages of 
scripture, viz. 
	"And God created man in his own image, 
in the image of God created he him, male 
and female created he them."
	The three thoughts suggested to me were
these:-
	Firstly, that if God created man in His 
own image, then it follows as a logical 
sequence that God is in the image of man. 
	Secondly, that Deity, which created man
and woman, male and female, in its own
image, after its own likeness, must of 
necessity involve and comprehend the male
and female principles. 
	Thirdly, that if we be the children of
God; if it be true,as we have sung, and as I 
doubt not, that in the heavens parents are not
single, but that we have a Mother as well as 
a Father there, then it follows that we, as the 
sons and daughters of God, bear within us 
the embryotic germs of Deity, and are 
capable by advancement, by progression, of 
becoming like our Father and our Mother in 
heaven; that it is possible, in other words, for 
man to become God, and if this be true, it 
teaches that there was a time when that 
being whom we now worship- that our 
eternal Father and Mother were once man
and woman in mortality. 
	These are well- known Mormon doctrines. 
and they ought to be well known Christian
doctrines, for they are sustained by the 
Scriptures, which, when properly under-
stood and interpreted, will be found to 
teach, by implication at least, these truths. 
	Seventy-five years ago, upon just such a 
bright spring morning as that which dawned
in glory upon this valley today, in the 
backwood of western New York, a boy about
fourteen years of age went out into the woods
to pray. He was "reaching after God," he 
was seeking for truth, not being content
with what was taught by the teachers of 
the time. He had seen that they differed 
among themselves and therefore, taking


[Column 1]
the word of God which said, "If any man
lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth
to all men liberally and upbraideth not," and
believing that saying, he had determined to
put it to the test. He declared that while
he was praying, like one pleading for his
life, a power came over him which had the
effect of paralyzing his tongue so that he
could no longer speak. A horror of dark-
ness fell upon him, and it seemed as if he
must pass over the brink of destruction.
But he continued to pray, and just at the
moment when he thought he should give
way to despair, he saw a light descending
from heaven directly over his head, of such
surpassing brilliance as to exceed that of the
noon-day sun. A pillar of light descended
and rested above his head. In the midst
of this pillar he saw two glorious beings in
the form of men. One of them pointing to
the other said, "This is my beloved son
hear him."
	This was a startling revelation. The
youth obtained more light than he had
prayed for, perhaps more than he could
then comprehend; for here was the proof
stamped anew upon a human mind, that
God, who made man in His own image, is
indeed in the image of man.
	I am aware that we Mormons are accused
of interpreting the scriptures too literally.
I bear in mind the coming to this City of a
learned Hindoo, a Mr. Nagarkar, who
represented the Bramo-Sumaj at the
World's Congress of Religions. He
claimed that only oriental peoples were
capable of fully understanding the Hebrew
Scriptures; that Christianity being an
oriental religion, could only be comprehend-
ed by the people of the orient. He said
that all western nations interpret the Bible
too literally.
	Well, perhaps we sometimes do, and we
may say also that perhaps the eastern or
oriental nations spiritualize the word of God
too much. In fact we think all the Christian
churches are given to this more or less;
that they do not recognize that there are two
interpretations, a dual interpretation, to be
placed upon the word of God. When we
speak of baptism, for instance, of being born
again, we do not mean a baptism of water
alone, but a baptism of the Spirit as well.
Immersion in water is only half a baptism,
and so with the spiritual baptism. As the
spirit without the body is imperfect, so is
the body without the spirit. And as one
baptism is imperfect without the other, so
also is one interpretation—the temporal in-
terpretation of the word of God, imperfect
without the spiritual interpretation, and the
spiritual imperfect without the temporal.
	Now, we hear Christians say that when
it is declared that God created man in His
own image, it means the moral image, and
that we are not to drag the Deity down, and
have the presumption to claim that He is in
the form of man. But that is precisely
what we do claim. What this youth saw
seventy-five years ago, the Father and the
Son in the form of men, is our conception of
God; not of the Holy Ghost, the third
person in the Trinity, but of the Father
and the Son, who have tabernacles as
tangible as that of man. I say this was a
startling revelation; because at that time
the world believed God to be merely an
infinite spirit, a universally diffused essence
which, as Pope says:
	Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze,
	Glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees,
	Lives thro' all life, extends thro' all extent,
	Spreads undivided, operates unspent.

[Column 2]
	This, to us, is an admirable description of
the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost; but it is
not a description of that God who created
man in His own image, and of whom it is
written that His Son, Jesus Christ was the
express image of His Father's person.
When the disciples of Jesus asked Him to
show them the Father, He replied, "Have
I been so long with you. and yet have ye
not seen me. He that hath seen me, hath
seen the Father."
	Therefore, we claim we have sufficient
evidence, even in the Bible, (aside from the
revelation to Joseph Smith) to show that
we are indeed of the same order of beings
as God, our Heavenly Father; that we are
indeed His sons and daughters, that He has
placed us here to contend for the right, to
reach after Him, to undergo the varied ex-
periences which fall to the lot of mortals
and thus become fitted to associate with our
Father and Mother in heaven. Why should
we think it unreasonable that children
should become like their parents? Is it not
the hope, the fond anticipation of every
good mother and father on earth that their
children shall arrive at maturity, and be-
come noble and useful members of society,
become like their parents here? Then if we
be the children of God, why think it un-
reasonable, presumptuous or blasphemons
that we should hope to become as God? Is
it not, after all, a mere matter of education,
of development, of expansion? No matter
how wide the gulf which separates us from
Him, that gulf can be bridged, that gulf
was bridged, by the atonement of our
Savior, who came to render this achievement
possible. Men and women, sons and
daughters of God, can cross over that gulf
in time, and enter upon the plane occupied
by their heavenly parents. These are the
things that we aspire to, that are promised,
and which sweeten adversity and render per-
secution tolerable. This is our belief in re-
lation to all the world, to the whole human
race. Progress is written upon everything
that God has made. The stars that glitter
in the blue vault of heaven are educated
worlds, homes of the redeemed and glorified
or of those who, like ourselves, yet hope
for glorification. This earth is but one
of millions of planets that have preceded it,
and have become the habitations of the
righteous: and those who live here by every
word that proceedeth from the mouth of
God will render themselves worthy of
celestial exaltation. There is a glory of
the sun, a glory of the moon, and a glory
of the stars, and as one star differs from
another star in glory, so also is the resurec-
tion of the dead. These are the induce-
ments held out to us. If we press on we
may attain to a glory that shall blaze like
the sun at noonday, or if not to that, to one
that will beam like the moon in milder
lustre, or if not to that, then to the twinkling
glory of the stars. But what should be the
aspiration of a child of God? To go where
God and Christ dwell, to inherit the celestial
kingdom and be satisfied with nothing less.
	It is our desire to progress. We believe
in serving God and in befriending the hu-
man family; in doing everything possible
for the advancement of the race. When I
arose I did not expect to say a word upon
the subject of woman suffrage. I will say
this, however, that I regard that movement
as one of the levers by which the Almighty
is lifting up this fallen world. It is a meas-
ure of progress, a step in the march of hu-
man liberty, and will sweep from its path
all opposition that lifts its puny arm and

[Column 3]
voice against it. I feel this in every fibre
of my being. I am glad to say that I ad-
vocated equal suffrage upon the floor of the
Constitutional Convention, and voted to
have it placed in the Constitution of the
State.
	May God bless every movement for the
advancement of the cause of common hu-
manity, for the enlargement of the borders
of liberty. May we, as Americans, show
that America has indeed set an example of
liberality to all the world, that she stands
like a goddess in the midst of the earth
holding aloft the torch that shall kindle and
illumine the nations. This government
was founded for that purpose, and as
champions of progress, let us be true to our-
selves, and show that we believe in the
divine mission and destiny of our country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	MINUTES of W. S A. held May 20th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Dr. E. B. Fer- 
guson in the chair. Sang “Hark the sound
of myriad voices.” Prayer by M. E. Bas-
sett. Minutes of two meetings read and
approved. Business referring to printing
literature laid before the meeting. Five
dollars voted for that purpose. R. M. Fox
spoke upon the new paper, “Men and Wo-
men,” also Dr. E. B. Ferguson; many of
the members subscribed for it. The Utah
Constitution to be brought up at our next
meeting, E. M. Price to speak on judiciary
points. Dr. Ferguson read a list of books
that we should try to obtain. Adjourned
for two weeks. Benediction by E. M.
Price.			M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

GRAND Co., W. S. A.
	A MEETING was called here at Moab,
May 8, 1895, at 2 p.m., for the purpose of
organizing a Woman’s Auxiliary Suffrage
Association,
	Mrs. Caine of Salt Lake City, one of the
Executive Committee of the Utah W. S. A.,
called the meeting to order.
	Mr. Taylor offered the opening prayer.
	Mrs. Caine spoke at some length to ex-
plain the object of the proposed organiza-
tion, and the subject was then put to the
vote of those present. The vote was first
taken by the saying of aye and no, but as
the ayes from the women were rather in-
audible, a second vote was taken by those
in favor standing up. Those in favor
were in the majority.
	The election of the officers was next pro-
ceeded with, which resulted in the appoint-
ment of Miss S. J. Elliot, as President,
Mrs. A. W. Warner as Vice President,
Mrs. Helen Kirk, Secretary, Mrs Esther
Tangreen, Treasurer.
	Mrs. Elliot, as President elect was
called upon to address the meeting.
Speeches were also made by Mrs. Peter-
son, Mrs. O. W. Warner, Mrs. Ham-
mond, Mrs. Stevenson, Mrs. Brack, Hon.
F. A. Hammond.
	Mrs. Caine spoke shortly upon the sub-
ject of statehood for Utah.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Mrs.
Caine and Mrs. Stevenson for their able as-
sistance in forming the organization. 
	The names of those who expect to become
members of the Auxiliary Woman’s Suf-
frage Association were then taken and fifty
names were enrolled.
	The meeting was brought to a close by the
singing of the hymn, “Our God we raise to
Thee,” and a prayer by Hon. F. A. Ham-
mond; adjourned at the call of the President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MY
HUSBAND.

O, MY husband! My lover! Indeed of a truth,
Who enchanted my spirit in bright days of youth,
Tho’ a fourth of a century’s past since the day
You first called me wife, and we’re both growing
	grey,
Tho’ changes and sorrows together we’ve known,
Yet my heart is still true, as in happy days flown,
And in thy dear presence a sweet, mystic spell
Thrills my being with rapture, that words cannot
	tell. 
’Tis a joy, ’tis a peace that lovers well know, 
Yet, we’re not the same lovers we were years ago,
For our love has been tested in various ways,
By the pitiless storm and the sun’s glorious rays 
Separation has only cemented the chain
That has bound us together through pleasure and
	pain,
So, our love may be voted the love that will last
Through the changes of time and the tempest’s 
	rude blast,
We are bound by all ties, that are strong, pure,
	and true
By the priesthood of God, and its covenant new;
By the children our Father has unto us given,
Bringing each to each nearer, and nearer to
	heaven.
In our youth we resemble the magnet, and steel,
Attracted together by love’s wondrous zeal,
We could not tell why, yet our faith was benign,
That in this our fond union there was a design,
That the hand of Omnipotence ruled in each life,
And brought us together as husband and wife.
This day, as the “Silver bells” chime in my ears,
My heart swells with thanks and my eyes fill with
	tears,
Tears of gratitude deep that the “lot” fell on you,
My kind, noble husband, tried, faithful and true. 
								MARIE


WOMAN’S PLACE.

SOME say that a woman’s place is at home,
	Sheltered and safe, where no rude winds blow.
That her feet are far too tender to roam
	Along the rough paths where a man may go.

While others contend that woman’s sphere
	Is out in the world, as much as a man’s
That she can have nothing at all to fear
	From taking a part in his works and plans.

Yes, woman can work with hands and head
	To steer her vessel across life’s sea,
But the heart will always take the lead, 
	And pilot her safely wherever she be.

Not to everyone is a fireside given,
	Nor need all women the stern world face,
She can scatter seeds over earth from heaven. 
	And gladden the world with beauty and grace.

But woman alone can woman free,
	And in raising herself uplift the race
To a higher life. This can only be 
	When woman is given her proper place. 
Ex.							BELLE TAYLOR


[Column 1]
APPEAL FOR THE ARMENIANS.

	[Address of Lady Somerset before a
Representative Gathering at St. James'
Hall, London.]

	RECENTLY a largely attended meeting
was held at St. James Hall, London, for
the purpose of expressing sympathy with
the victims of Mohammedam fanaticism in
Armenia and elsewhere in Turkey and to
exercise some influence upon the policy of
the British government in behalf of the
sufferers. Among the distinguished

[Column 2]
speakers were the Duke of Argyll, the
Bishop of Hereford, Dr. Percival, Profes-
sor Story, the moderator of the church of
Scotland and the mayor of Liverpool. To
none of these, however, were the forensic
honors of the event aecorded, but to a wo-
man. The London Daily News declared
that Lady Henry Somerset’s address was
the speech of the evening and reported it
verbatim, an honor accorded only to that
distinguished lady and to the duke of
Argyll. The eloquent address will be
read with interest. Lady Somerset said:
	“The crescent of the Turkish mosque has
become the scimitar of the bloody-handed
Turkish soldier. Henceforth that crescent
stands forth in the eyes of all nations as
impossible to cleanse as the hand of Lady
Macbeth, while the cross, gleaming on ten
thousand church spires, sheds forth the mild
effulgence of a beacon that means deliver-
ance wherever its heavenly rays extend.
Never were these two symbols of a dying
and an ever-living cause set over against
each other in a contrast so vivid and signifi-
cant as now. The martyrdoms of the first
century in Jerusalem have been suffered
again at Sassun.  The hills and valleys of
Judea are hardly more sacred than the
blood saturated hlls and the valleys of
Armenia.
	“What was the crime of the Armenians?
That they cherished in their brave and
loyal hearts the Gospel of peace on earth
and good will to men: that the Bible was
their most sacred possession; that the home
life had one central figure rather than a
group of women despoiled of their choicest
heritage—the life long fidelity of one man to
whom their own had been faithfully pledged.
This was the stone of their stumbling, the
rock of their offense in the fierce eyes of
their Moslem foe.
	“Three figures stand forth on the lurid
canvas of this History: the priest who had
sustained and comforted his little flock,
gathered with him in a cave on the hill-side,
was too old to flee when the Turks searched out their covert. He was afterward found,
bayoneted, mutilated, his reverend gray
hairs half concealing the red signs of the
cross that had been cut on his forehead—
indelible mark of the undying hate that
the followers of Mohammed cherish for the
disciples of the Galilean.
	“Another is the scene when Shakkeh,
the sister in- law of Krikor, the famed Ar-
menian leader, herself a woman well known
for her high character, courage and wealth,
took her little boy in her arms, and, being
pursued by the savage soldiery, flung her-
self down a precipice, beneath which she
was found dead by faithful friends who
came to seek her place of martyrdom; as
they simply said: ‘We buried her and the
little one in remembrance of the hospitality
we had so often enjoyed in her happy
home.”
	“The third is a young wife and mother
but eighteen years of age, who, hunted
like a partridge on the hillside, ran with
her little three-months-old boy in her arms
until she was overtaken by the Turkish
troops and her boy slain before her eyes,
his little form being tossed on their bayonets
from one soldier to another; and as she
turned to fly they began to despoil her of
her clothing, when, to their surprise, they
found on her a belt filled with gold coins,
and during their quarrel over the distribu-
tion of their booty, she slipped away and
concealed herself among the fastnesses of

[Column 3]
the rocks, where she was afterward joined
by her husband: and the two escaped and
are here with us tonight.
	“For what did they die—the good priest,
the brave lady, the hunted little mother’s
child? They died that the Gospel—which
raises woman up, and with her lifts toward
Heaven the world—might have free course
to run and be glorified. They died that
the untrammelled, beneficent, consecrated
life of England’s purest womanhood might
slowly come to women in their own beauti-
ful and pleasant land. For they knew as
we do that even as the progress of a June
day is traced on the earth’s map by the sun-
shine, so the widening way of a free Gospel
is traced by woman’s happiness and man-
hood’s exaltation. For them, already
Christianity had done much, for us it has
done more; to them the tender dawn had
come, to us the noontide splendor.
	“It is fitting that an Englishwoman's 
voice should be lifted for the Armenian
woman in this great circle of England’s
power, culture and opportunity. A hun-
dred thousand women wearing the White
Ribbon—emblem of purity and peace—are
invisibly present with me as I stand here
trying to represent their holy indignation
and burning love for their sisters yonder in
the clutch of the harem despot at Constanti-
nople.
	“The watchword of our great nation
today should be not ‘peace with honor’—
for these are words that in the presence of
the lamb upon Armenian hillsides to which
no wind is tempered become a reproach if
not a blasphemy; but rather let us cease to
cry peace, peace, when there is no peace;
and lifting up our hearts to God for power,
let men and women throughout the Eng-
glish-speaking race, in broad America and
Great Britain highly resolve that the rally-
ing cry of Armenian deliverance shall be
peace with purity, peace with fidelity,
peace with loyalty, firm and unfaltering to
the Gospel of Christ and of the Golden
Rule.”


LITERARY SOCIETY.

	THE American History and Literature 
Club was organized April 3, 1895, at the
home of James Howard, South Bountiful,
Davis Co., with the following officers:
President, Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron; Sec-
retary, Caroline A. Crocheron; Assistant
Secretary, Jennie Howard, and Eveline
Parkin as Treasurer. Committee on pro-
gramme Nellie E. Parkin and Lucy J.
Howard.
	Our meetings are held weekly and much
interest is manifested.
		CAROLINE A. CROCHERON, Sec.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

	Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - -	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City paper's deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines Of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite 2. C. M, L Business hours from
10 a.m. to’S p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to.
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, 
second-class matter.,
	SALT LAKE CITY 15, 1895.


PRESIDENT YOUNG’.S BIRTHDAY.
	ON the first of June, 1895, at the Young
Re-union in the Social Hall, the following
interesting letter was read, which awakened
many tender recollections in the minds
of those present.
	A letter of greeting from Patriarch Lo-
renzo D Young, was read by Brother
Franklin W. Young, as follows:
		SALT LAKE CITY, June 1, 1895.
President Brigham Young and the members
	   of the Young Family Association. 
	Dear Brothers and Sisters:—It would
have given me great pleasure to meet with
you on this momentous occasion, the anni-
versary of the birthday of a great and good
man, one whose deeds live after him, and
whose memory is still green in the hearts of
those who loved and honored him.
	I would like to talk to you a little about
the things that lie near my heart. 
	I stand, as it were, on the threshold of
another world, and I look back on the
years that have vanished like a dream, and
have taught me so many lessons; and I long
with infinite longing to impart some of my
thoughts to you.
	After our toilsome journey to reach this
valley, that was to us the Promised Land,
we arrived here in the early morning; we
were weary and travel-stained, but our
courage was still undaunted. My brother,
Brigham, was riding with Brother Wood-
ruff. He rose up from his seat in the car-
riage and exclaimed in a voice that silenced
any doubt that might have arisen, “This is
the place, this is the place" and we looked
around at the wilderness of sage brush and
black crickets, and knew that forbidding as
it was it was henceforth to be our home.
	Look around you today and answer, Was
he not inspired? His body is resting on the
hillside where the trees murmur a requiem
and the flowers perfume the breeze that
wanders above him, but his glrorous spirit
is reaping the reward of his arduous labor
and it will only be a little time till we will
follow. Let us live humble lives, forsake
the ways of the world and prepare to meet
him. If I understand these celebrations we
come here for the purpose of becoming bet-
ter acquainted with each other, for the
purpose of strengthening the ties of
friendship, for a reunion of love and good
feeling. You have been strewing the roses
of affection and remembrance on an honored
grave; do not forget to scatter flowers of
kindness around you at all times. 
	We honor the dead, and we owe a great
duty to the living. Let us learn to love


and be kind to each other, and in this way
cement the bonds of relationship till we
form an unending chain that will reach
from this world to that other glorious place
where no trouble or sorrow can ever enter.
	I would like to meet with you, but my
strength will not permit, but I pray God to
bless you all with His Holy Spirit. May it be
guide to your footsteps and a light to your
pathway in the journey of life. May you
all live to celebrate the birthday of this
great man for many, many years.
	LORENZO D. YOUNG.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES

	WE desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Union Pacific excursion rates
as published in our columns. It will be a
good opportunity for those who desire to
take a little recreation during the hot
weather.

	THE Relief Society conference of this
Stake of Zion was held today in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. President Angus M. 
Cannon was present and President Zina D.
H. Young with her Counselors Sisters Jane
S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith. The
written resignation of both President Horne’s
counselors were presented and acted upon,
and two other counselors elected to fill the
vacancies; Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon. The minutes of 
the conference will be published later.

	THE pamphlet containing the speeches of
Hon. O. F. Whitney made in the Constitu-
tional Convention is now ready for distribu-
tion. The County W. S. Associations
should avail themselves of this opportunity 
and send a few stamps for postage on receipt 
of which we will forward the literature.
Those who read and study the speeches of
F. S. Richards and O. F. Whitney will
find some good arguments, and much de-
sirable information on this important subject
which is so much discussed and so indiffer-
ently understood viz. political equality.
The pamphlets have been published by the
Utah Woman Suffrage Association and are
freely distributed, the means being gener-
ously given by the ladies of Salt Lake City
and County, in the hope of setting before
the people some of the why’s and where-
fore’s of the reasons for equal suffrage for
men and women.

	MRS. Arthur Brown gave a pleasant recep-
tion and tea at her home to-day, to the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and other lady friends.
Mrs. Brown is a very genial and gracious
hostess, and on this occasion as upon simi-
lar ones, her parlors were artistically deco-
rated giving them the appearance of a 
bower of roses the fragrance and beauty
were specially delightful. We shall not
attempt to give a description of the scene,
but suffice to say everything was in the
most perfect taste for the enjoyment of her
guests, and the conversation of such ladies
as Mesdames Judd, Baldwin, Kimball,
Clawson, Henderson, Richards, Kraft,
L. F. and A. F. Young and others
equally brilliant, together with the “Club”
women made the hours go swiftly by. Mrs.
Brown in a very artistic way read Eugene
Field’s poem The Conversazione, which was
heartily applauded. Miss Maude Pratt
opened with the song “Last Night” and
Mrs. R. M. Fox read an original humorous
poem “Woman’s Sphere.” Miss Laura
Hyde gave an appropriate recitation. Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. W. Cannon gave in her own characteristic
way, Watkins Quest, and some club mem-
bers gave expression to their feelings in
thanks and appreciation of the courtesy and
kindness extended to the club. The affair
was in every respect a happy one, except
for the absence of guests, who were either
out of town, or had previous engagements.
	MRS. and Miss Mackintosh gave an ele-
gant At Home, at their handsome residence
in honor of Mrs. Lane of Washington, D. C.
Everything was on the most fashionable 
and elaborate scale. The house in itself is
magnificent, and its arrangements and fur-
nishings grand and imposing. It reminds
one of an old castle, except that it is too
modern in tone, and has not the sombre old-
ness of the days of knights and Barons. 
The floral decorating was simply indescriba-
ble except by an artist. The beauty, or 
American blush roses predominated, but
there were many other more delicate and 
paler roses and other blossoms in charming
contrast. The dainty refreshments partaken
of in the midst of so much that charmed
the eye and gratified the sense was like
feasting on ambrosia, and one could easily
imagine fairy land, so enchanting was the 
occasion. Conversation in such a place,
and at such a time, was naturally inspiring,
and the constant coming and going of new
faces, and dear, delightful friends must have 
made the hearts of the charming hostesses
glad and happy. Mrs. Lane, who has been 
in Salt Lake before was most gracious to all
and every one felt on meeting her that
peculiar fascination, which makes one forget
time and place and linger on, until the next
introduction reminds one of the fact that
five hundred or more are also to extend and
receive greetings. A band of musicians in 
the hall of the grand staircase discoursed
melodious, dreamy music which floated out
upon the perfumed air and mingled with 
the conversation of the happy company,
who half unconsciously sipped their tea or
partook of ices, creams, etc., or strolled
from room to room admiringly. It was a 
most delightful afternoon. Mrs. Mackin-
tosh may certainly be congratulated on the 
happy success of the effort to give her friends
the opportunity of meeting her very charm-
ing guest and friend.
	A GRAPHIC lecture and recital was given
by Ida Snow (daughter of President Lorenzo
Snow) on the evening of June 14th, at
Unity Hall. The lady has traveled in
Europe and tarried in some of the most in-
teresting cities, and has evidently made
good use of her time and is well qualified
by study and observation to tell what she
has seen and to describe accurately places
and people for the satisfaction of others, who
while listening to her clear, well-modulated
voice cannot fail to be highly entertained.
The first part of her lecture was devoted to
her own first impressions of Venice, the
Grand Canal by moonlight, its novelty and
dazzling splendor, with its tower and stately
palaces rising from the water, it was almost
like seeing it in a vision so life-like was
her vivid word painting. The Rialto bridge
was described picturesquely, the music
floating on the water from a brilliantly il-
luminated gondola under the marble rock
of the Rialto; the gondoliers strange woon-
ing at every turn, ah Italia! In the happiest
manner Miss Snow described the Piazza of
St. Marco with its elegant colonnades and
polished marble palaces, its square paved
with marble promenades; the tranquil indo-


lent life of the Italians brooding all day
long over their little cups of coffee, and the
world-famous pigeons. Palace of the Doges,
the beautiful architecture and grand paint-
ings some of the masterpieces specially
mentioned, such as Tintoretta’s, “The Para-
dise,”—“The Triumph of Venice” by Paul
Veronese and others, also the Venetian
paintings in the Academia delle Belle Art,
by the Bellini, Carpaccio and other celebra-
ted masters. Many other striking pitcures
were drawn and elaborately' portrayed- her
lecture should be given in a large hall, and
is worthy of a numerous audience, one
must have been very unimpressionable not
to have appreciated the lecture. The scene
rorn “As You Like It,” given afterwards
showed to good advantage the ladies dra-
matic talent. Miss Snow’s next lecture
will be Rome, Naples and Switzerland.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LOST ARTS

	WITH some little trepidation I venture to
write a few thoughts about this subject I
choose to call Lost Arts, for perhaps I am
not in tone with the age, and the club
women and advanced thinkers will judge
me as behind the times and call me a
"moss back" when I tell you what I con-
sider lost arts. However, thoughts will 
pass through my mind sometimes like
these, and though I. know the present ad-
vantages to children and women for educa-
tion are far in advance of the past, I won-
der sometimes do we not slight nature, and
force a growth both of body and of mind in
our eagerness to teach and train. Is the
fruit of the green house as luscious and as
firm as that of the garden? Does not the
forced growth injure the flower? There
are several things I consider Lost Arts and
I do not think the present substitutes afford
ample compensation—childs play—-My heart
delights so in nature and everything natu-
ral without affectation of any kind that with
regret and almost pain I notice the studied
and careful movements of children in their
play. I told some little girls yesterday "you
don't know how to play to the fullest en-
joyment, you have been taught too much."
Nowadays little ones, so little, are in
schools of physical culture, kindergartens
and dancing classes, all under trained
teachers. The play and the motions are so
artistically and methodically aranged that
the child is old beyond his years, and sigh-
ing I think of those childish days when
without a teacher of any kind a troop of
roguish children (there were many of us
boys and girls) used to play that "horried"
game of "back out." How we climbed the
apple trees never caring for the few
scratches on our arms or the few rips in our
clothes, swinging from the highest branches,
sometimes stopping long enough to "skin
the cat," then drop to the grassy ground
below. Could a circus girl do better than
that? How we scaled those high stone
walls and ran with the swiftness of an In-
dian along the smooth and rounded surface
and with an Indian shout and a call of
"River of my race receive me," leaped to
the other side a distance of some twelve or
fourteen feet. Did we stop to think is that
graceful, is that according to the rule? no,
we only plunged right on regardless of
everything but the fear of being "backed
out." Then the old rambling barn, what
a place for hide and seek; how we slid down
the mangers into the grain bins, under the

[Column 2]
hay, everywhere like so many rats; afraid
of the horses or cows? no indeed, afraid of 
nothing but the overseer, who didn't care
to have us spoil the hay and when the
alarm was given "James is coming," how
we made for the windows and leaped into
the corral below. What matter if we struck
a cow in our jump or skinned a shin, we
only laughed at our happy escape and be-
gan to plan another sport. Those great
piles of lumber in the back yard, what end-
less amusement they afforded how we 
climbed them just to jump off again. What
glorious teeters they made and wasn't it
fun this swinging up and down under those
great old cottonwood trees; whether as
candlestick or seated on the end. Did we
ever fall or get hurt? oh yes, many times
but that only added to the pleasure, for
the sweet childish sympathy and comfort
made us love on another all the more.
	Then sometimes in the evenings we
played battle with the fariest of maidens, a 
perfect Juno in figure on the one side and
the stoutest of boys a true Roman on the
other for our generals. We drilled and
marched and fought like regular Trojans
to the music of our own voices and with
weapons of our own manufacture. Then
those long hard walks in the canyons with
well-filled baskets, big sun-shade hats,
probably a few ropes for jumping, swinging
or games of "Copenhagen." How with
the rising sun we began those long tramps 
halting at the first spring for a refreshing
drink from some bright tin cup. Was wa-
ter ever sweeter or colder? stopping now
and then to cut a strong willow cane, and
then at the rock bridge to call our names
just for the fun of hearing the echoes.
Halting again at the Empire mill for
another drink and a run along the mill race.
Are we hungry when Pleasant Valley is at
last reached? well, yes indeed and while
the boys prepare the camping ground and
tie back the willows to make room in shady
corners for a pleasant rest, the girls unpack
those precious blaskets. What lunches!
was there ever a banquet half so fine? There
were no signs then in the canyon to "keep
off the grass" or to keep away from the wa-
ter, or not to cut the trees, and we made us
willow bridges that we might climb the
hills on either side, and we twined wreaths
of the birch leaves for our hats, and we
cut long walking canes and in the trunks of
many trees the young chevaliers cut their
own and their sweethearts names. How
we climbed the mountains to the very top,
and our untaught natures drank in the view
of the valley. There was the city where
lay our happy homes. We could see it just
awakening and knew by the blue curling
smoke that those at home were only now
preparing the early breakfast. There lay
the blue and lovely lake we knew so well
shining in the morning's sunlight, and be-
yond towards the eastern hills was the
graveyard where perhaps with a sigh we
thought of some loved on buried there,
who the year before had climbed with us to
that summit and gazed in rapture on that
self-same scene. Was it a brother or a
friend it matters not, it was on beloved,
and the sighs and tears always mingle with
the merriment and laughter. At evening
after all this climbing and playing and
sporting, gaily we wend our way homeward
with ou baskets refilled with the blue and
scarlet flowers of the hills, faces tanned and
sun-burned, shoes almost worn out, dresses
which in the morning were so smooth and

[Column 3]
pretty now rumpled and soiled. Weary,
yes a little, tired enough for a long night's
sweet sleep, but hearts leaping ” with the 
pleasure of that never to be forgotten day.
Oh, those lovely hills, those apply trees,
that dear old barn, those massive walls,
what endless joyous thoughts you now re-
call.
	Modern children, I pity you, walled in
close roomes with bars, and trapeze, and
rings, and wire frames with colored balls,
marching, dancing, posing, counting to
the music of a school piano, listening to
lectures of what not to eat and how to eat
it. Think of the joy of the apples orchards
and the locuts groves where some straight
limbed tree affords all the amusement of
the modern gymnasium, think of the grassy
ground beneath where like fairies or
brownies you can take fantastic steps , to
the music of the winds and birds, think of
the lovely green hills where you can gather
the red and blue, the purple pink and yel-
low flowers and always above- it all, the
blue and lovely sky. Such were the Kin-
der-gartens, and gymnasiums and hygiene
of the children of the pioneers, and can you 
find in the community now, men and wo-
men better developed physically or mentally
than they? Nature is after all the purest,
the most perfect school.
	CONVERSATION:-You don't mean says
one that this is lost, don't people talk now-
a-days, yes I suppose they do, but not like
they used to. A little miss once said to
me I should think your hoe would just
be delightful for I notice whether at the 
table or in the parlor, your mother talks
with you about your lessons, or the books
you are reading, or the music you are
learning, just as though you were as old as
she and of course you learn to like your
studies better; and it was true, we would
converse about different topics at home and
discuss certain questions in a most delight
ful manner; and long evenings of converse
interspersed with a little music was the 
regular order of a home where many friends
and many strangers often joined and still
recall the pleasant hours.
	Other homes were probably just the same
but now I never see that kind of entertain-
ment, if a few friends drop in or one gives
a party it is not the old-fashioned conversa-
tion that leads, now it - must be cards, or if
an invited party there must be some expen-
sive musician or accomplished reader hired
to etnertain, and the company resolves itself
into a meeting and sits with folded hands to
listen to a prepared program. All this is 
very nice of course still those must have
been most fascinating salons of the French
women where men and women of letter
and of war met and conversed on the
leading topics of the day, and again those
evenings of Gearge Elliot’s must have been
delightful where in company with Herbert
Spencer and other great minds, she convers-
ed on literature, travel and music, then
Margaret Fuller's afternoons in conversa-
tion with Emerson and other literary. Bos-
tonians certainly were highly interesting.
Why don't people study more for the sake
of happy converse? Is that not what your
clubs are for, merely a school, to educate
one to converse intelligently and pleasingly,
yet at almost every gathering the club does
not lose its identity and become an informal
meeting of friends to exchange sentiments
and ideas, but often remains formal and con-
ventional as the club meeting itself. Ah!
you say where are the George Elliots, the


Margaret Fullers the Madame De Staels to
entertain one nowadays. True those were
master minds and shone all the brighter for
then there were few women who cared to
study literature and science as they did, but
there are in every community bright intel-
ligent women whose conversation would be
most delightful and if in our homes men
and women discussed with their children
topics and questions of the days, and read
with them occasionally some fine literary
efforts would they seek so much amuse-
ment away from home, or rather would they
love to be there and carry with them into
other homes an atmosphere of refinement
and culture. Conversation as an art we
read about in books we seldom run across
it in life, people are too busy to discuss
questions now, unless they do so publicly
for the money, or the fame it brings, and
very often if in a small party, cards or a
prepared program are not available gossip
takes the place, and that, while entertaining
at the moment often goes too far and causes
unpleasant feelings. If one only knew
just how much to say and kept strictly to
the truth why no objection could be made to
gossip but who is there, who so wise? I
still assert that conversation is a lost art
found occasionally in obscure places.
	LETTER WRITING—With the exception
of some young man on foreign travel or the
youth enjoying his first college year who
writes real letters now-a-days. What would
be the use with the telegraph and the tele-
phone and the type writer one can hear
easily if all is not well with one’s friends
without spending so much time and ink
and paper, writing long letters. And yet
what a delight a nice letter from an absent
friend is, how as one reads parted souls
seem to commune one with another, it is
almost like being with a friend to have him
send a letter. Better some times than con-
versation, for one will write words and
thoughts they fear to tell when face to face;
and oftentimes the heart out pours its ten-
der feelings in flowing language that the
voice would tremble and hesitate to utter.
But it takes too much time to write letters
now and is not necessary so long as one
can hear and know one’s friends state of
health, so that sweet exchange of thoughts
and feeling too is almost done away with.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Since the day when Miriam wrote and
sang in the classic land of the Nile, there
have been women with hearts full of song,
and with souls delicately attuned—silent
poets, perhaps, but oftimes silent only be-
cause the stern tyrant necessity bade them
toil, not sing.
	When women first commenced to write
they did not think of doing so for pay, but
being impelled from some force within,
they thus occupied their spare moments.
There is one writer who says in colonial
times the professional literary woman was
unknown. The verses of Mrs. Anne
Bradstreet, called in flattery the “tenth muse"
were “the fruit but of some few hours
curtailed from sleep and other refreshments."
Mrs. Mary Warren, who left voluminous
records of the Revolution never sought
to gain a livelihood by her pen. She wrote
her tragedies for amusement in the solitary
hours when her friends were abroad.”
	An authority says that ’tis only about a
hundred years since the literary woman

[Column 2]
came to remain with us. But she has played
an important part in the world’s history
since she came, and of no less importance
may be considered her sister the woman
journalist.
	In the beginning of woman’s literary
career, it was not a popular thing for her to
be known as a writer, and she was dubbed
“bluestocking.” As compared with the
pen, the needle was considered the more
fitting emblem of woman’s industry.
	In striking contrast to those days, how-
ever is the present time, when the success-
ful writer, man or woman, is supposed to
reflect credit on his relatives and friends.
	Although one writer says literature is one
avocation that has never closed its floors to
women, there are several great writers of the
earlier time who chose to conceal their
identy by using the nom de plume of a man;
as, George Eliot, George Sand, Gail Hamil-
ton, etc. They did this “because they
wished an unbiased judgment as artists.”
But since then, the world having grown more
liberal with its greater enlightenment, it is no
difficult matter to find critics and editors in
plenty who pass equally fair judgment on
women and on men.
	There are women engaged in journalism
in all parts of the civilized world. Far off
Australia had, at the organization in 1887,
two officers in the International Press Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Augusta Chadz of Melbourne,
Mrs. E. J. Bocock of Queensland and both
vice-presidents of that society. The other
officers were residents of England, and
America, the president, Mrs. Eliza J.
Nicholson being a resident of New Orleans.
	In Saxony Louise Otto edited and pub-
lished for four years a journal which gave
all the news concerning woman’s rights.
Later, she worked in connection with
Auguste Schmidt, in editing a small jour-
nal called New Ways. This was published
by the Universal German Woman’s Union,
an organization designed to provide homes
for poor girls and orphans, and train them
into habits of usefulness.
	In England, some of the women who
have written books are known the world
over. Of the personality of their news-
paper and magazine writers I know but
little, but presume from items I have read, 
that there, as here, there are women en-
gaged in editorial and reportorial work.
	France has produced a number, of bright
literary women. Napoleon said of Madam
De. Stael, “Her arrows would hit a man if
he were seated on a rainbow.”
	When we come to American women in
journalism, there is scarcely a reader of our
newspapers and magazines who cannot call
to mind a host of bright, witty, and wise
pen women. Mrs. Laura C. Holloway,
herself a well-known newspaper woman,
and for years on the editorial staff of the
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, says, “There never
was a time since newspapers were made that
women were not at work upon them.”
	We have account of the widow of James
Franklin of Rhode Island, (he being an
older brother of Benjamin Franklin) who
nearly half a century before the Revolution
continued, after the death of her husband,
the publication of the newspaper formerly
conducted by him. And even when he
had charge of the business, his wife had
been of great assistance to him.
	In 1772 Clementine Reid printed and
edited the Virginia Gazette, and it was the
first paper in the United States to publish
the Declaration of Independence. 
	There were numerous other women of

[Column 3]
colonial times who were engaged in print-
ing and editing newspapers. Mrs. Hol-
loway speaking of them says “Many have
missed historical record; but of the seventy
eight news papers published in the colonies
sixteen were edited by women, and of those
sixteen, fourteen were ardent patriots. So,
as usual, we find, woman on the right side.
	Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale, born in New
Hampshire in 1795, commenced at an early
age to contribute to different magazines.
A little later, and while still a young wo-
man, she took charge of Godey’s Ladies
Magazine, and thus, become the first wo-
man in America to edit a magazine.
	Thirty-five years ago there were but few
women to be found in newspaper offices,
among the first of these being Margaret
Fuller, who was so long associated with
Harace Greeley on the New York Tribune.
Margaret Fuller is said to have possessed
an education of superior excellence, and in
that way to have better equipment than any
who had as yet entered the literary field.
She is exceptional, too, in this fact; she did
not, as did many of her contemporaries, ac-
cording to one critic, “work her passage into
literature by first compiling, a cookery
book.” She worked with high purpose,
and her great cry was for a broader and
more generous culture for girls.
	Fanny Fern (Sarah Peyton Willis) sister
of Nathaniel P. Willis, commenced her
literary career when about forty years of
age. She probably did not realize that she
possessed literary talent, for being left a
widow with two children to support, she
attempted school-teaching. Not succeeding
in that, she wrote a few sketches as a ven-
ture and sent to Robert Bonner, editor of
the New York Lodger, They were pub-
lished, attracted much attention, and were
widely copied. The result was an im-
mediate and lucrative engagement, which
lasted until her death, to write exclusively
for the Ledger. She was educated in the
school of Catharine and Harriet Beecher.
	Grace Greenwood was a popular writer
who contributed to the New York Mirror
and Washington Era. Later she edited a
children's paper, The Little Pilgrim.
	Though now over eighty years of age,
she read a paper at the National Council of
Women in Washington, last February; and
one who heard her says, it was full of wit-
ticisms and kept her audience in constant
good humor.
	Jennie June became so popular as a con-
tributor to some of the leading magazines
and papers, that her name became a house-
hold word. She is bright and witty, and
the originator of a certain style of news-
paper correspondence. She is also the 
founder of Sorosis, an important organiza-
tion and the first of women’s clubs. Of
course, these alliterative names are but the
pseudonyms of the writers.
	There is such an army of gifted pen wo-
men of the past and present time, that
simply to name them, even if one could,
would be a task of magnitude. 
	The pecuniary compensation of good
writers is an item not to be overlooked.
Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal says, “For every man who
makes a good living by the pen there are
almost two women. Mrs. Isabel Mellon
the sprightly “Bab” has an income larger
than the editor of many a big daily.”
	Mary Mapes Dodge gets an income from
her publishers that many a man would be
proud to earn. Lillie Hamilton French
keeps a comfortable flat in New York and


[Column 1]
supports her mother in excellent style, en-
tirely from the proceeds of her pen. And
one may cite many instances of financial
success.
	So we see that women show much busi-
ness as well as literary ability. Mrs. Frank-
lin, so long before the Revolution is only
one of a list of widows who continued the
business of their deceased husbands.
	After the death of the editor of The
Feathered World in England, his widow,
Mrs. Comyns, continued the publication,
and soon raised the circulation from 12,000
to 20,000. In the year 1892 she was the
only woman in the United Kingdom who
was proprietor, editor and manager of a
paper. 
	The most striking instance of the kind in
America is Mrs. Frank Leslie. In 1881
after the death of her husband, she took
charge of his publications. She states that
she had never been in the office six times
before that, and that she found all chaos;
for the entire business was in the hands of
the assignee and a committee of creditors.
She was obliged to face an enormous in-
debtedness and several lawsuits. The
creditors of Mr. Leslie could not afford to
let him fail as he used such large supplies
it would have meant ruin to them. So
they had contracted to give him three years
time and take their pay out of the profits.
A wealthy Brooklyn woman came to the
rescue of Mrs. Leslie. The latter took
charge of the business on the 1st of July
and agreed to pay part of the account on
November 1st: but on the 29th, of October
she paid the entire loan with interest.
	It was the misfortune of President Gar-
field that enabled her to retrieve herself so
quickly. She assumed control of the busi-
ness on Thursday; the President was
wounded on Saturday. She at once dis-
patched'her artists to Washington—all very
young men; because as she said, “Youth is
more enterprising, and will dare to do what
older men will not venture.’’ Great efforts
had to be made on the Sunday and Fourth-
of July holiday on the Monday following,
but they were all successful, and by Mon-
day evening all was ready for the press, the
front pages and double page of the illus-
trated having been entirely changed. As a
result an edition of 300,000 was sold im-
mediately and orders came in so rapidly it
was impossible to fill them.
	Mrs. Leslie immediately took all her il-
lustrations and made a pictorial history of
the sad event, which she called the Garfield
Memorial, and she cleared ten thousand
dollars on that. She designs leaving her
large fortune as a benefaction to women.
	Kate Field is a prominent figure in litera-
ture. For years she contributed to various
magazines in England and America. She
is now editor and proprietor of Kate Field's
Washington a bright and spicy magazine
which is largely quoted from by the news-
papers. It is now in its tenth volume clos-
ing its fifth year, and is published in the
city whose name it bears.
	But one’s eyes need not be forever turned
eastward in scanning the field of literature.
Here in our western country are a
number of journals conducted entirely by
women, and there are women contributors
to most of the prominent papers and
magazines. Prominent among the former,
and first of all to be published in the Rocky
Mountain region is the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. It was started June 1st, 1872,
edited by Miss Lula Greene,  now Lula
Greene Richards. Subsequently it

[Column 2]
passed into the hands of Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, who has ever since continued to
be the editor and publisher. It is the organ
of the Relief Society of the church it
represents and besides devoting itself to
philanthropic, literary, and industrial
societies, it publishes gems in poetry and
prose, original and selected.
	Another Utah paper conducted entirely
by women is the Young Woman's Journal,
of which Susa Young Gates, a daughter of
President Young, is editor. It is designed
to publish the best of the original articles
read before the Young Ladies Improve-
ment Associations, and to foster the literary
ability which without doubt exists in our
fair territory.
	The first paper on the Pacific Cosst to be
published by a woman was The New
Northwest, of Portland, Oregon, with Mrs.
A. J. Dunniway, editor. It was issued in
1871, a year before the EXPONENT.
	The Impress of San Francisco is the or-
gan of the Pacific Coast Woman’s Press
Association, and is edited and contributed
to by members of that society.
	The Golden Dawn; a woman's paper
was published in San Francisco about 1872,
California is proud of her pen women,
and with good reason too.
	I hope ere long to see shining local lights
in literature as a result of the broader cul-
ture and greater leisure which now exist.
And I would like to mention there is a
writer who signs herself “Mab” Ogden, in
writing to the Salt Lake Herald. I have
wished she would exercise her pen more
freely. There is a strain in her writing
which reaches the heart, and I have read
between the lines a desire for the better-
ment of humanity.
	It is woman’s mission to uplift the hu-
man race, and the field of journalism is a
wide one in which to operate. And also a
woman can there find exercise for the
maternal instinct which is so largely a part
of her nature. She may take the world
figuratively, as her child, and train it in
the way it should go, sparing not the rod
of correction, nor the soothing caress, but
all the while pointing to the upward, on-
ward way, saying, "This path shalt thou
tread,"
	Today we have spoken only of the suc-
cessful woman in journalism. But there
have been, alas! as many failures; and even
those who later achieved success, often in
the beginning faced difficulty and defeat.
	The field is overcrowded and one should
not attempt to enter unless she feel that in-
herent call which almost amounts to inspira-
tion. And Longfellow has reminded us

	"The heights by great men reached and kept, 
		Were not attained by sudden flight;
	But they, while their companions slept.
		Were toiling upward in the night.

	Undoubtedly there are many new stars
yet to appear in the galaxy of literature.
But it is well for all to remember the words
of an unknown author,

	“To write some earliest verse or line, 
Which seeking not the praise of art, 
	Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine
		in the untutored heart.

	He who doeth this in verse or prose;
		May be forgotten in a day;
But surely shall at last be crowned with those.
	Who live and speak for aye.”

		LIZZIE STEVENSON WILCOX.

Mrs. Wilcox was selected from the Utah

[Column 3]
Woman’s Press Club to give this subject at
the annual meeting of the Utah Federation
of Clubs in Ogden, May 23, 1895.—Ed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIMARY CONFER-
	ENCE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

	CONFERENCE of the Relief Societies of
the Hawaiian Islands was held April 5,
1895, at head quarters Laie, Oahu, about
250 Saints marched in the usual order to
the meeting house, which had been neatly
festooned with ferns and flowers for the oc-
casion. After the usual opening exercises,
which were rendered promptly and lively,
the Financial and Statistical report for the
year ending Dec, 31st, 1894, was reade
showing 36 branches (eight of which were,
not reported) members 619, meetings held
783. Receipts for the year $672.85. Dis-
bursments to the poor $60.05. To the
Temple $18.25. Missionaries $75.70.
Miscellaneous $168.95. On hand $349.90
	The first speaker was Kapa, the former
president of the first Relief Society organized
upon these islands. She spoke upon the
labors of President George Q. Cannon while
here, and also upon the good accomplished
by the society here during the past twenty
years.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Sisters
Merema Kekuku and Ane Apua, Sister
Ella Birdno read an essay on the subject of
the gathering of Israel and bore her testi-
mony to the sisters.
	Sister Kahuhu one of the native counse-
lors spoke on the subject of prayer, and
Poopuu the President of Kahana Society
spoke of the Bible being the word of God,
refered in particular to the gathering of
Israel, said Zion was the land God had
chosen for His people.
	The Sisters from Honolulu sang a song
composed for the occasion. Sister Alice
Hannon read an essay on the subject of
prayer, also spoke of the power of God
made manifest through prayer in the behalf
of her little boy in his recent sickness, and
praised God for his merciful blessings to-
wards her. A duet by Sister Laura Fisher
and husband accompanied by Elder William
Thompson was much appreciated by all
present. Sister Lizzie Brown gave a sketch-
of the life of Sister Phoebe Woodruff and
encouraged others to emulate her good ex-
ample. Song by Sisters Ruth Kauhine,
Kekuwewa and Kaluapalava.
	These exercises were interspersed by.
verbal reports from the different branches
Instructions were given, by Sister Noall
pertaining to the object of the society and
in the fullfillment of woman's earthly mis-
sion, that of multiplying and replenishing
the earth as God first commanded, spoke of
the rapid decrease of the Hawaiian people,
and of the necessity of taking proper care
of the body, not to copy the evils of
civilization but the good referred to the
evils of the world that were creeping in
among them, coupled with the traditions of
their forefathers
	Resolutions of love and respect expressive
of the appreciation of the labors of Sister
Noall among the Society on the Islands,
was read by Sister Makanoe.
	A free will donation of $6.00 was received
the General and local officers were sustained
and meeting was adjourned for six months.
	Singing, "O my father," benediction by
Makanoe.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday 6th, at 9-30 the little folks as-
sembled at the mission house and formed in
marshall order each bearing a small Ameri-
can flag which was waved by the gentle
sea breeze, the vibrations of which carried to
the Mountain vales the appropriate strains
of “We are marching to Utah.”
	The meeting house was crowded to its ut-
most capacity the little ones numbering
about 150. Looking over the assembly of
children, seated according to their age,
their bright eyes sparkling with delight,
the little girls dressed in white, and all
wearing badges of gay colors, bearing ban-
ners with appropriate sentiments, the
thought naturally suggests itself “Of such
is the kingdom of Heaven” and during the
rendering of an impressive programme,
tears were frequently seen in the eyes of
parents whose children had beep so care-
fully trained by the missionary sisters,
especially was this the case while listening
to songs composed for the occasion expres-
sive of, their love and appreciation of .the
labors of the President.
	The following is a synopsis of the pro-
gramme. Opening hymn "Beautiful Day”
translated in the native language. Prayer
by Iva Kekuku a child of eight years. 
	Singing, “Did you think to pray” in the
native language as the roll was called each
little lisper responded with Biblical senti-
ment. Twelve items of impoliteness pre-
pared in native to suit the wants of the
children were recited in concert. Opening
address by Victoria Nainoa, Primary Ad-
dress by Sam Kii, Song Iva and Hattie
Kekuku, Addresses were given by boys of
about twelve years old on “Sacrament of
the Lord’s supper.” “Life of Christ,”
“Children’ of Israel” &c. Dialogues pre-
pared in native or Gospel subjects were a
special interesting feature to the parents.
Recitation by Tillie Brown, “Guilty or not
guilty,” was creditably rendered.' Song,
“Godspeed the right” led by a little boy,
the children beating time with their small
flags.- Dialogue in native language by Vera
and Nonnie Noall entitled “Zion or the
land of our birth.” Closing address by
Wallace Brown in native language.
	Many other songs, recitations, essays,
speeches were very creditably rendered by
the children, but the original songs rendered
with feelings of love, was not a small feature
of the days exercises. The six months re-
port was read, showing Associations 2,
Officers 16, members 162, boys 72, girls 90,
ncrease 20, meetings held 42, (essays)
Sentiments learned 39, recitations 62,
reading 33, testimonies 66, Bible verses
learned 184, Questions and Answers 81.
Songs 51, Essays 16, Dialogues 34, Stories
40, Manuscript Papers 11, Correspondance
4, music 1, Financial. On hand at date of
last report $6.70 Receipts for six months
$13.20. Disbursed $11.75. On hand $8.15.
	General and local officers were sustained
for the next term. Words of encourage-
ment were given to the children and coun-
sel to the parents in the rearing of their
little ones, impressing upon their minds the
importance of the labor of the Primary
Association, and the necessity of parents
sending their children to these worthy
meetings that they may learn in youth that
which in later years will not depart from
them, thus fitting them for the labors
that will be required of them in the near
future. Meeting was adjourned for six
months by singing “To Day” (in native)

[Column 2]
and prayer was offered by a little girl from
Honolulu.
	E. D. N.


16								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
Sister Minnie A. Cook who departed this
life the 8th of October 1894. Was born at North-
hampton England the 18th of November 1821.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Later-day Saints by Elder Thomas Smith in 1894.
Emigrated to Utah in 1856 in the Ward Cart
Company, she was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward and among the
first to propose a Sunday School in the same
ward where she worked faithfully among the
young people. She also lived in President
Young’s family for some years as a teacher of
music. When she was called home to her
Native country by her parents, both of whom she
busied while there, and then finding the spirit of
the gospel burning in her soul, she again returned
to join where by the help of the Lord, in her
weak way she taught music and needle work to
many young women; always feeling it a duty to
impart of knowledge the Lord had given her to
those whom she met, ever conscious if she was
rewarded in this life, God would reward her ac-
cording to her deeds of love and kindness. And 
when we go beyond this life, may we be as
worthy as she, is the desire of one who has known
her well and always respected her greatly and
loved her dearly even in her old age.
					S. E. M.

	Rizpah Knight Gibbons whose death ocurred
here March 17th, 1895, at St. John’s Arizona, born
March 13, 1890, in Perrysbury Co., State of New
York. She was the daughter of Martha McBride
and Bishop Vinson Knight. Her parents united
with the church soon after its organization and in
1834 moved to Kirtland.
	The deceased was present at the dedication of
the Kirtland Temple, March 27th, 1836. They
afterwards moved to Missouri from whence
they were expelled with the Saints in 1839 locat-
ing at Nauvoo Ill.
	Here she formed the acquaintance of Andrew S.
Gibbons to whom she was afterward married
They were permitted to enter the Temple at
Nauvoo and receive their blessings.
	In 1846 they were again driven from their
homes going westward, she remaining with the
Saints that were scattered along the way between
Nauvoo and Winter Quarters while her husband
went on with President Young’s Pioneer company.
He returned for her in the fall of 1847 and soon
as they could raise means started for Salt Lake
Valley where they arrived in 1852 and located at
Bountiful.
Two years later he was called to the southern
mission and located in Iron Co.
	Four years after her husband (with others) was
called to labor as an Indian missionary. They
were called to Arizona and located in St. Johns,
Feb. 1880. Most of her life was spent on the
frontier, consequently she suffered much privation
and endured many hardships, but remained faith-
ful as did also her husband who preceded her to
the other world nine years ago, and by whose side
she is now laid.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, eight of
whom died in their infancy. When she was still
quite a young woman she was called upon to wait
upon the sick, and was afterwards set apart for
that labor and spent a great deal of her time in
that way during about forty years.
	She with her husband had the privilege of en-
tering into holy places and receiving very great
blessings, and also doing a good work for their
dead. She also attended the dedication of the
Salt Lake Temple. She was followed to her last
resting place by many loving relatives and friends.
				R. E. BERRY, Sec. R. S.

	MARY MORRIS ROBINSON beloved wife of D. A
Robinson, departed this life Feb. 14th, 1895, at
North Morgan. Deceased was the daughter of
Isaac C. Morris and Elizabeth William Morris,
born Oct. 25th, 1855, in Salt Lake City, and was
the mother of ten children; two having preceded
her to the spirit world, a daughter of fourteen 
years of age, and an infant daughter in 1891.
	Sister Robinson at her death left little twin
babes about two hours old, to be reared without
the tender care of a mother.
	She was a loving wife; a devoted mother, a true
friend and a consistent Latterday Saint, the Relief
Society, and the associations of the ward have
lost a faithful co laborer in the death of Sister 
Robinson.

[Column 2]
		RESOLUTIONS OF REPECT.
Whereas the great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in his infinite wisdom removed from
among us—one of our worthy and esteemed Sis-
ters and Co laborers Mary Morris Robinson, and
	Whereas the long and continual relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties,
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her,
	Therefore be it resolved, that the wisdom snd
ability which she has exercised in the aid of our
organization by service, contribution, and counsel
will be held in grateful remembrance,
	Resolved that the sudden removal of such a life
from our midst will leave a vacancy and a
shadow that will be deeply realized by all the
members and will prove a severe loss to the
Society; and with deep sympathy with the be-
reaved relations of the deceased we express our
Hopes that even so great a loss to us all, may be
over-ruled for good, by Him that doeth all things
well.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed in our record book and a copy sent to be
printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and also a
copy be forwarded to the bereaved family.
“At the resurrection morning
		We shall all appear as one
		Oh! What robes of bright adorning,
		Will the righteous then put on.”
ELIZABETH WORLTON, Prest,
				EMMA W. CLARK, Sec.

		A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
	WE the Young Ladies of the West Coalville
Ward offer this as a token of our esteem and ap-
preciation of the labors of our dear President,
Sister Eliza L, Rhead, who departed this life May
26, 1895.
	Though we feel her absence deeply, and miss
her loving counsel, we do not feel to mourn, for
we know that our loss is her gain.
	Her willingness to comply with the commands
of God, has taught us many useful lessons, and
we sincerely trust that by following her counsel
and example, we will be prepared to meet her in
the mansions above, where we can again listen,
to her loving counsel, for we hope that the labors
she commenced on earth will be continued in 
heaven.
	As the labors of her life pass through our minds,
we can but think—Beloved President, thou too
has been—
“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life,
	Faithful as daughter, mother, woman, wife;
	Covered with celestial glory, thou shalt shine
’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
COMMITTEE.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

	Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

