VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 15, 1895.	No.6.


CONTENTS:
	Lecture On Suffrage—R. M.  F. Ladies Semi-
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. Agricultural
College Of Utah—J. H. Paul  The Opinion Of
The  Court.   A   .Tribute  To  The  Late Sister
Presinda Kimball—Laura C.   Pack. Relief
Society Quarterly Conference.  Visit And Meet-
ing s at Willard—E. B. W.     Relief Society Con-
ference—E. B.W.      U.   W. P. C.—L. S. Wilcox
Letter To U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.    R. S. &
P. A. Repoits. Conference  N.  A.  W. S.  A.
Cooking In An Electric Oven. Woman Suf-
frage In Colorado. Obituaries. 
POETRY:—My Friends—E. R.  S. Friendship
—Lucy A. Clark.  Beautiful Hands.


MY FRIENDS.

O, THOU friends of my youth, and life’s later age!
Thy names are inscribed on time’s fitful page
Indelibly written in letters of gold,
On my heart’s living tablet that never grows cold
Though the world grows apace and the cycle of
	time
Reaps the harvest of age,and e’en flowers in their
	prime,
Still enshrined in my soul with all that is dear,
Are the names of my friends in characters clear.
Ah! These friends are the brighest of jewels I
	wear,
More precious than diamonds so brilliant and rare
The very best gifts my Father hath given.
E’en beams from His presence, descending from
	Heaven.
How dreary the world e’en with all of its powers,
Its sunshine, its music, and beautiful flowers,
Without a true friend, with the magic of love,
Refreshing our souls, as the fountain above,
Refreshes our spirits with infinite peace,
Inspiring us ever in good works to increase.
	E. R. S.


FRIENDSHIP.

THERE are many friends in spring-time,
	When the air is pure and sweet,
When the roses blossom around you
	And the lillies at your feet,
How they seek to win your favor,
	Gain your approbative smile,
And with words and deeds of kindness
	Your fond, loving heart beguile.
There are many friends in summer,
	When prosperty abounds,
When kind fortune smiles upon you,
	And the air with praise resounds
How you gaze at them and wonder
	Who’ll be firm and true to trust,
Who will stand the test of friendship.
	Who will say thy cause is just.
When the stormy clouds of autumn
	In the horizon, appear
Friends who’re false and faint and fickle
	One by one will disappear,
Let them go false friends and traitors
	For such friends are,worse than none a 
In an hour when most they’re needed
	Then you look, and lo! they’re gone.
But the friend that’s true in winter
	When the frosty chilling blast,
Wraps its icy mantle round you


That is friendship that will last;
Such a friend is like a jewel
	Rich and rare of wealth untold;
Not time, nor heat, will change them
	Like a diamond set in gold.
But though earthly friends may wander
	Far away in time of need,
There is One who rules in heaven
	He’s a friend, a friend indeed
Ferns may fade, and roses wither, 
	Leaves decay and mosses die,
But if you’ll retain his favor,
	You’ll to victory soar on high.
	LUCY A. CLARK.


[Column 1]

LECTURE ON SUFFRAGE 

[Given before the Reapers Club, S. L. C.]
	Ex-Governor Long has said the argu-
ments against Woman’s Suffrage are like a
bag of feathers, you may punch it all day
but it remains a bag of feathers still, there
is no solidity in it and you can make no im-
pression upon it. And it would seem too
as though this question of suffrage would
become worn and threadbare, that the argu-
ments for and against were well nigh ex-
hausted, but to the women who are eagerly
watching and waiting for the glorious burst
of day it is like a well of living water.
True, to those women who have all the
rights and privileges they want it doubtless
does become very wearisome, to them I
would say cast your eyes abroad, look long
and steadfastly until they shall rest with
pitying glance upon some poor creatures
who are not so fortunate.
	It is all very well to say, let them work
for suffrage who want it, there are women
bound with chains of degradation who
know it not, there are others while sensing
it most keenly are powerless, or think they
are, to raise one finger for their own de-
liverance. And must these suffer while
we enjoy all the rights we want? must these
eat crusts while we feed on the luxuries of
life? No, no! never let it be said that wo-
men are regardless of the rights of their
sisters, rather let us labor for them and
with them, let us educate them until they
shall assert their independence and shake
the shackles from their wrists, thus may we
lift them to a higher plane and help to lay
the foundation for the ushering in of that
golden time upon which the best thought of
the ages has been centred. Oh women!
what a responsibility rests upon your shoul-
ders in the bringing about of that glorious
time. Mothers, do you not know that the
very foundation of government is
in the family circle? do you not see
that what the homes are, so the state must
be?
	So while I would urge women to take
part in every good thing, as far as circum-
stances will permit, I would say guard well
your homes for there is the nation in
embryo. Ever since Eve partook of the
forbidden fruit, which certainly showed her
pluck, women have been blamed for all the
ills that flesh is heir to; there has been a
woman at the bottom of everything that

[Column 2]
savored of ill repute, but in the future there
will be a woman at the bottom of every-
thing good, not excluding good govern-
ments. Men have not been slow to lay
their burdens upon us, but they have been
so afraid we should find it out, we have
heard a great deal about the father having
to battle with the world for a livelihood for
the family. And here let me say there
would be no struggle for a living if the
world were properly managed, but the man
who could succeed in being what is termed
a good provider, has ever been considered
par excellence. But we have not heard so
much about mothers hundreds and thou-
sands of them who are not only the pro-
viders for themselves and their husbands
but they bear and rear families at the same
time. And on these mothers rests the re-
sponsibility of the conduct of these children
also, even men will tell you that women
can bind the family together far better than
they; it is a common expression that it is
better for the father to leave the family,
even if there is no visible means of support
than the mother. If this can be truthfully
said of women after she has been bound
with the chains of servitude for thousands
of years to what heights may she not attain
when she shall grasp greater opportunities,
cultivate the intelligence which God has
given her  and developed herself to the
full perfection of womanhood. Now let
us for a moment imagine a mother, and
there are a multitude of them who have
brought to the state several worthy sons the
greatest service she could possibly bestow,
unless perhaps it was an equal number of
good daughters, she has taught them the
laws of life, filled them with the spirit of
patriotism and the love of God. Just think
of the conditions that make it possible for
those sons to say, “Mother, I am twenty-
one years old, a full-fledged citizen. I can
vote now and have a voice in the govern-
ment of the nation. Who knows! Some
day I may be a Senator, aye, even President
of the United States.” But women don’t
know anything about government, they
have had no experience in such matters.
Oh, consistency, thou art a jewel! What
mothers, do not know enough to vote after
spending thirty or more years in the very
best self-discipline that can be devised in
the government of the family.    Again we
have been taught from the good old book
that wives are in subjection to their hus-
bands, that depends altogether on what kind
of husbands,   righteous men truly are the
head of the wife just precisely as Christ is
the head of the Church, and Christ is the
head of the Church to lift all men up to
Him where if they will come he will give
them a seat on the right hand of the Father.
Does that look like subjection?
	Then there are many women that have no
husbands and must necessarily be their own
head.   This question of suffrage for women
may properly be termed a movement of re-
form, and they must bring a different ele-
ment into government from the one in con-
trol now, or I fear their efforts will be of
little avail. Men have become so used to
trickery in politics that it seems to be ah-


solutely necessary; there are tricks in all
trades, no one thinks anything about it. To
be honest and wear a plain bold front has
gone entirely out of fashion, none but very
peculiar people think of such a thing.
	Prayer is not needed in politics, God has
nothing to do with it, He no longer holds
the destiny of nations in the hollow of His
hand. Indeed, I fear that were it possible
for Washington, the immortal father
of our country, to be discovered in
this day and age of the world, fervently
praying for divine aid in the guerdon of the
American armies he would be the subject of
rldicule. But instead of prayers we must
bow and scrape and smile and flatter and
sometimes even buy ourselves into public
favor. Shame upon such actions. Well
did the Savior understand such people when
he said, “ye are a generation of vipers, for
ye are like unto whited sepulchers which in-
deed appear beautiful without, but are
within full of dead men’s bones and all
uncleanness.” So. I say women to the
rescue; women to the front; join with good
men, and let me tell you there is no man so
good and great but what is all the stronger
with a brave, true woman by his side,
neither are brave men numerous enough to
fight the battle alone. Join with noble
men and clear this broad earth from cellar
to garret, let the work roll on, and the
word go forth that women will neither be
bribed nor persuaded from the path of duty
but once knowing it, will do it or die. Let
her conscience go into politics as it has in
her home so shall she carry the white ban-
ner of purity and liberty, casting her ballot
at all times for the best good of all mankind
until there shall be “a new heaven and a
new earth and all things old shall have
passed away.” R. M. F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward, July 27, 1895, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, “O Jesus the Giver,” etc. Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. Secretary, Sister Young not be-
ing present, Sister L. D. Alder, was called
to take the minutes.
	President M. I. Horne, felt glad that she
was able to be present to day, as she had
been away for some time. Said she had
been to Bear Lake, on a visit, and bore
testimony that the same spirit moved upon
the sisters there as it does everywhere,
where the saints dwell, she said, ‘‘I greet
you, my sisters with love and kindness, I
pray that we may be faithful and true to
our covenants, then the grace of God will
be with us.”
	Sister Minerva Snow, said, “Accidentally
I am here, not knowing that this was meet-
ing day, but was invited by a sister, whom
I called upon to visit. I am pleased with
the report of Sister Horne of the faithful
ness of the sisters everywhere. I rejoice
to see my sisters advancing and progressing.
We have everything to encourage and build
us up. Our Father has caused this organi-
zation to be instituted, that we may not be
strangers, and I thank Him for it. Do we
appreciate the rich blessings that He pours
out upon us, in His holy Temples? My
meditations on these things brings joy un-
speakable to my heart. May we endure to

[Column 2]
the end, and receive the reward of the
faithful.”
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I feel pleased
to be able to stand before you for a short
time. While sitting here, I have thought
of our dear Sister King, who used to meet
here, she said she ached to be fed by the
spirit, I too have come to be fed, I cannot
go very often to meeting, yet I have much
to be thankful for. The Lord has been
good to me in my life. I am peaceful and
have a comfortable spirit.
	There is so much before us, so much to
be done, yet our Father does not require
more of us than we can do. We are here
in this mortal existence, moving on, God
sees us at all times, yet we cannot always
understand the Spirit, nor comprehend
Him. I think we might be more diligent,
more humble. Do the best we can then we
are accepted of Him. The nearer we ap-
proach the condition of the Spirit in us, the
better we will be. May we always be able
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord.”
	Sister Z. D. H. Young: “It is like a
well-spring to my heart, to see your faces,
sisters. We have increased knowledge by
reading, especially the Book of Covenants.
We cannot bound the work we are engaged
in, I am thankful that we have a part in
this work. Why we sometimes feel so
hungry and sometimes so feasted, I know
not, only that the Spirit goeth where it
listeth. We need the spirit of the Lord
daily, then He will open up the way before
us. Our trials are for our good, but when
we are passing through them, we cannot
see the light, but when we can say in our
hearts, “Thy will be done” we are near to
victory. I have heard President Young
bless the Relief Society, now sisters if you
are not enrolled, you cannot get the bless-
ing. We want to stay here in this world
and labor, as long as the Lord wants us to.
It will make no difference when our turn
comes to go. God bless you all.”
	Sister Martha Barrus, testified that we
who belong to the Relief Society do receive
blessings. Also bore her testimony. Sis-
ters sang “Who are these arrayed in white.”
	Sister Sawyer Snow, felt encouraged, and
desired to press on in the work.
	Sister Sarah Kimball, here referred to some
meetings held in the early days and spoke
of the gifts of the Spirit that were poured
out. Said she would like to see meetings
like those now.
	Sister Sarah Phelps bore a fervent testi-
mony to the the truth of the work, and
concluded in the gift of tongues.
	Sister Minerva Snow gave the interpreta-
tion.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
good she had received in these meetings,
and made encouraging remarks. Made
reference to the work for the dead.
Thought the time for the second coming of
our Savior was near at hand.
	Sister Morris, said, “blessed are we my
sisters,” and prophecied of the great re-
ward for the faithful.
	Sister Morris of the eleventh Ward bore
an excellent testimony.
	Sister Leaker, and a sister in the con
gregation, each spoke well, and desired to
be faithful.
	Sisters sang, “There’s a feast of fat
things,” &c.
	Sister Margaret Brown spoke on Temple
work and added a strong testimony.
	Sister Maria Wilcox also spoke on Tem-
ple work, made other remarks.

[Column 3]
	Sister Rawlinson, added her testimony.
	Sang, “Do what is right.” Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Closed by singing,
“The time is far spent.” Benediction L.
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF
UTAH. 

	  LOGAN UTAH, July 23, 1895.
    [To the Commissioner of Education
Washington D. C.]

	SIR: In accordance with the require- 
ments of an act of Congress of August, 30
1890, I submit herewith a report of the
condition and progress of The Agricultural
College of Utah during the past school
year.
	The year has been a fairly successful one
in College work and in the patronage and
public encouragement the Institution has
received.
	The attendance of students for the year
reached a total of 360, as compared with a
total of 264 for the preceding year. The
average age of all students during the year
was 19.4 years, as compared with an aver-
age age of 18.8 the previous year. Two
pupils were graduated with degrees: one in
Agriculture, and one in Civil Engineering.
Last year there were four. This falling off
may have been due to the strengthening of
the required course of study over that of
the year previous. For the ensuing year
the courses have been still further developed
and strengthened. The most important
change in the curriculum is that the first
two years of all the four-year course for
male students are now identical, as shown
in the catalogue on page 11. The first two
years for lady students are the same as those
years for young men, except in shopwork
and in a portion of the mathematics, which
are replaced, in the ladies’ course, by cor-
responding work more suitable for women.
	The first two years comprise mainly those
general culture studies with which
every educated person is expected to be
familiar; while the last two years of each
course are composed largely of technical
study in the special lines of the course
chosen, but without wholly excluding the
so-called culture studies even in these years.
This departure is based upon the belief that
the educated man or woman as such,is bet-
ter fitted for the duties of life than is the
narrowly trained specialist, who lacks cul-
ture of the nature sought to be provided by
the general subjects. The other changes
consist mainly in a rearrangement, and, we
think, a more accurate grouping of major
and a more rigid subordination of minor
subjects, than heretofore. The regular
Faculty numbers twenty-two, with two ad-
ditional teachers in special subjects.
	The question of uniting the Agricultural
College with the University of Utah was
considered at length by the recent Terri-
torial Constitutional Convention, with the
final result of embodying in the proposed
Constitution a clause keeping these insti-
tutions separate as at present.
	I have no hesitation in saying that the
College is growing in the estimation of the
people generally, and that there is good
reason to expect a still more successful year
the coming season.
	Respectfully submitted,
	J. H. PAUL President


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BEAUTIFUL HANDS.

	ELLEN M. H. GATES.
SUCH beautiful, beautiful hands!
	They’re neither white nor small.
And you, I know, would scarcely think
	That they were fair at all.
I've looked on hands whose form and hue
	A sculptor’s dream might be; 
Yet those aged wrinkled hands,
	Are most beautiful to me.
Such beautiful, beautiful hands!
	Though heart were weary and sad,
These patient hands kept toiling on,
	That the children might be glad.
I almost weep, as looking back.
	To childhood’s distant day,
I think how these hands rested not,
	When mine were at their play.
Such beautiful, beautiful hands! 
	They’re growing feeble now,
For time and pain have left their mark
	On hand and heart and brow.
Alas! alas! the nearing time,
	And the sad, sad day to me,
When ’neath the daisies, out of sight,
	These hands will folded be.
But, oh! beyond this shadowland,
	Where all is bright and fair,
I know full well these dear old hands
	Will palms of victory bear!
Where crystal streams, through endless years,
	Flow over golden sands,
And where the old are young again,
	I’ll clasp my mother’s hands!


[Column 1]

THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

[Deputy Registrars must place the names
of women on the State Registration List.]
	OGDEN, Aug. 10.—When the court con-
vened this afternoon the District court room
was crowded with attorneys and prominent
citizens eager to hear the decision of Judge
H. W. Smith on the test case brought to
determine the right of women to vote for or
against the proposed Constitution and for
the election of State officers at the same
time. The decision was the principal topic
of discussion. The general guess seemed
to be that the court would decide that wo-
men could vote for the first State officers,
but not on the Constitution.
	In beginning his decision Judge Smith
stated the case succinctly, and that the facts
alleged in the affidavit for the writ of man-
date were admitted. Hence the only
question to be determined was the legal
propostion, whether women were entitled
at the coming election to vote for or against
the Constitution and for State officers then
to be elected, and whether under the law,
women are qualified voters entitled to use
the electoral privilege upon the questions.
It cannot be said that any partisan questions
enter into this discussion or decision, be-
cause no one has any knowledge of how the
decision of the question will affect the re-
sult of the coming election. It is a ques-
tion of construction only and the rules of
construction of legislative enactments are to
be closely followed so as to arrive at the full
and intended meaning of what legislation
and congressional enactments have been
made upon this point. No woman in the
Territory, I apprehend, wishes to vote un-
less she has the undoubted and explicit
right to do so, and this action is for the pur-
pose of determining her rights. Hence it
is of the greatest importance to determine
this question correctly in accordance with the

[Column 2]
full meaning intended by the Enabling Act,
and the acts of that convention that framed
the law which will be the law by which the
people of the Territory will be governed,
in the opinion of the court.
	The whole matter hinges principally
upon sections 24 and 19 of the Enabling
Act and upon the second section of the
declaration of rights. The first and second
sections of articles 4 of the Constitution,
and the 11th, 12th and 14th sections of the
schedule embraced in the Constitution.
	The court then quotes these sections and
says that the contention of the plaintiff is
that it was the duty of the Constitutional
Convention to designate who shall be the
electors generally and that they must per-
mit that class of persons named in the
second section of the Enabling Act to vote
upon the Constitution, and further that the
Constitutional Convention performed that
duty and created the electorate of the pro-
posed state, and that she falls within the
class of persons upon whom the franchise
has been conferred. In brief, that she and
all others upon whom the proposed Consti-
tution confers the franchise as well all those
persons upon whom it is conferred by the
act of Congress, are entitled to vote upon
its adoption or rejection.
	The claim of the defendent is that Con-
gress by the Enabling Act has created the
electorate that is to pass upon the adoption
or rejection of the Constitution, and that
the Constitutional Convention has provided
that the same electorate shall select the first
state officers vested in any individual or set
of individuals, but the right of voting is
purely conventional and is given or with-
held at the will of the legislative power.
It may be enlarged or restricted, granted or
withheld, and no one may complain, if done
in a uniform manner. Congress has never
attempted to say what person or persons
shall constitute the electorate of any state
but the opposite is affirmed by that consti-
tutional amendment which declares that the
powers not delegated to us by the Con-
stitution, nor prohibited by it, are reserved
to the states respectively, or to the people.
There is no attempt in the Constitution to
limit the power of any community or ex-
tend the franchise to any class of persons
that they may see fit to favor with it. In
this light it is doubtful if Congress ever in-
tended by the Enabling Act to provide an
electorate for selecting the first officers of
the State, and I do not think it would be
made within the power ot Congress.
	In the opinion of the court section 4 of
the Enabling Act ratified by the Constitu-
tional Convention and made a part of the
Constitution, provided a class of voters to
vote on the Constitution and this class are
the ones entitled to this vote. The voters
of the proposed State “the people” are
those upon whom the political responsibili-
ities and the duties are devolved and under
this, new Constitution men and women
have these responsibilities and duties; hence
the Constitution should be voted for or
against by these persons upon whom that
instrument places the duties and responsi-
bilities of electors.
	If I am right as to the test by which we
are to determine who are the qualified
voters of the proposed State of Utah, then
it seems clear to me that the plaintiff is en-
titled to vote both upon the adoption or re-
jection of the Constitution,and certainly for
the election of State officers of the pro
posed State of Utah.

[Column 3]
	This conclusion necessitates the issuance
of a peremptory writ of mandate and the
order will be that a peremptory writ issue
requiring the defendant to register the plain-
tiff as an elector of the second election pre-
cinct of Ogden city.”


A TRIBUTE TO THE LATE SISTER
        PRESINDA L. KIMBALL.

	HAVING been invited to attend a birth-
day party to be given in honor of the late
Presinda L. Kimball three years prior to
her death and not being able to attend I
sent the following lines, which I have
lately been requested to offer to the
EXPONENT for publication.
	DEAR AUNT PRESINDA.
With feelings of respect and love
And prayers for blessings from above 
Your name I now indite.
Beloved and honored for your worth
The day that ushered in your birth
Was fraught with peace and joy.
Such woes have mortals here to bear, 
One who can soothe and ease their care,
And lift their thoughts above;
To Him who ever will be nigh
To hear the humble, reverent cry 
Of those in anguish bowed;
The days that give such ones to earth,
Angels will surely note their birth 
As blessings to their race.
How oft you visit beds of pain
And pleading words like drops of rain
Upon the thirsty earth.
Call down from heaven like healing balm, 
And turn the suffer’s thoughts to Him,
With faith to make them whole.
The peace and joy you thus impart, 
Finds answering echo in your heart, 
And makes you doubly blessed. 
Truly a noble mission thine 
To cheer, to comfort and incline 
The hearts to righteousness.
What wonder we should dread to know,
Ere long you will be called to go, 
To reap a just reward.
A glorious crown you’ve surely won,
And when your work on earth is done,
And you are called away,
Oh, may we check the selfish tear,
Nor longer wish to keep you here, 
From those who've gone before;
Who’ve gladly marked your course below, 
And wait with lips and hearts aglow, 
To greet you in that home. 
	LAURA C. PACK


MRS. S. L. PRINDLE, better known as
“Mother Prindle,” who has for some years
been the matron of the Florence mission,
has gone to England by invitation of Lady
Henry Somerset to start a rescue home in
London.
	THE Wilmington, Del., W. C. T. U. has
received the gift of a lot worth $8,000 upon
which to erect an Industrial School for girls
	“ONE of the Springfield census enumera-
tors is a woman. She alone of the whole
force employed finished her duty within the
specified time. In any kind of reckoning
nowadays woman counts."


44 WOMAN'S EXPONENTS
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributer.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, S2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cut regular advertisers.
Exponent office. Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST 15, 1895.


RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY
CONFERENCE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion, will be held
in the Assembly Hall on Saturday, Sept.
21st. Meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is very desirable
that there should be an official representa-
tive from each branch of this Stake of
Zion and a full attendance of members is
requested.
	M. I. HORNE, PRESIDENT.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SECRETARY


[Column 1]
VISIT AND MEETINGS AT 
WILLARD.

	ON Friday August, 2nd, we visited Wil-
lard Box Eider Co. in company with Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Arriving at Brother
Hubbard’s we found a warm welcome and
a delicious supper awaiting us. Brother and
Sister Hubbard are veterans in the Church
and highly respected by all who have the
pleasure of their acquaintance,   old-
fashioned New Englanders, descendants of
the early Puritans. In the evening there
was a meeting of the W. S. A. of Willard,
and goodly number assembled, about one
third of the audience were men, the Bishop
was present and other leading brethren.
Miss Maria Zundell President of the As-
sociation presided in a very pleasing man-
ner. The singing from the suffrage song
book was excellent and the speeches by
both men and women were certainly edu-
cational and fitting to the present circum-
stances and condition of Utah in view of
statehood.
Saturday morning at ten o’clock the Re-
lief Society convened in the meeting house,
Mrs. M. A. Hubbard presiding. Bishop
Zundell made the opening prayer. Mrs.
Olivia Widerborg the venerable President
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
with her Corresponding Secretary Mrs.
Emilia D. Madson had driven over from
Brigham City to attend the meetings, which
was a very great gratification to the sisters
who are very fond of their Stake President,
there was quite a large congregation for a
morning meeting. Remarks Were made
by Sister Hubbard and her Counselors, also
President Zina D. H. Young and Sisters
Widerborg, Madson, Wells and others. The
subjects treated upon were the spiritual
needs of the members of the Society in
growth and development, uniformity of

[Column 2]
methods in the work of organization, the
benefits to be derived from such work and
association, and the need of employment for
those who were in want of assistance. In
this connection the silk industry was talked
of and Sisters Young and Wells urged the
sisters to active exertion in promoting seri-
culture.
	Quite a number of the sisters dined at
Sister Mary Harding’s enjoying the company
very much, as well as the luxuries provided
for their temporal needs.
	The meeting at two in the afternoon was
called for the Young Ladies Association of
Willard and Mrs. Jane Chandler presided.
Mrs. Alphonso Snow the Y. L. M. I. A.
Stake President of Box Elder was also
present from Brigham City and there was a
fine audience of girls and young women,
and a few boys as the President of the
Primary Association of Willard, had called
the older members of the P. A. to meet
with the Y. L. and they occupied one side
of the house. It was an inspiring audience,
one realized the beauty and strengh of
health and vigor physical and spiritual.
The whole tenor of the remarks made were
in a spirit of exhortation and encourage-
ment to the young to continue in the paths
of virtue and uprightness, to seek for
wisdom knowledge and understanding, and
to become useful in their day and time up-
on the earth; to be helpful to those around
them and diligent in the performance of
every duty devolving upon them as mem-
bers of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
and strive to set examples worthy of imita-
tion, and attain to excellence in all good
works, that they might become bright and
shining lights to those about them having
an understanding of the truths revealed in
the last days. The speakers were Sisters
Chandler, Snow, Madsen, Widerborg,
Young, Wells. Dudley, Hubbard and
others; these sisters also talked to the
children of the Primary in a very pleasing
way calculated to interest them, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young asked them a number of
questions upon Church matters, which were
promptly answered by the little folks.
	Altogether the visit to Willard and the
meetings were very pleasant and satisfac-
tory to the visiting sisters. The singing
was excellent at all the meetings and was
one of the happy features of the gatherings,
as good music adds much to the tone of all
assemblies and is always uplifting in its
tendency.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE afternoon session of the General
Conference of the Relief Society, April 4th,
1895 was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, commencing at 2 p. m.
	On the stand were Sisters Young, Rich-
ards, Smith, Horne, Snow, John, Hinckley,
Barber, Taylor, and Wells. Singing, "O,
my Father, thou thatdwellest,” Mrs. Mary
John reported Utah Stake in good condition,
twenty-five branches, “We sent a Delegate
from Utah County to the W. S. A. Con-
vention at Atlanta and to the National
Council in Washington. We have wheat
stored against a time of need in our stake,
about six-hundred bushels, and shall go on
gathering more. The Relief Society is a
great school for us all I am also interested
in the franchise and believe it will be a
benefit and blessing to us.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the good ac-

[Column 2]
complished by the Relief Society, and
of paying honor to whom honor is due—
the works of the Relief Society are charity
and love and blessing—“Sisters always
pray for those who are over you, pray for
Sister Zina she needs your aid and assist-
ance and faith and prayers, teach your
children these things, and do not neglect
them, keep in their remembrance the lives
and characters of our great and good
men and women.” Mentioned Sister
Presendia Kimball, Sister Heywood, Sister
Howard and others.
	Sister Smith spoke about our sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society longer
ago than those who were mentioned by
Sister Taylor, because perhaps she was
older, Spoke of Sister Whitney, Sister Em-
ma Smith, Mary Ann Young, Vilate
Kimball and others, and how faithful they
had been in the midst of great trials, she
felt to speak of these sisters because she
had known them personally.
	President Young talked of our having
a Conference in June and of spending more
time in meetings, and not be carried away
with the vanities of the world. She had
seen men who had talked with the Lord,
and had seen them fall away, and make
mistakes, we must be humble, and full of
faith and charity, &c. We want to have
time in our Conference to do our business
and bear our testimonies, we want to bless
you and help you, and the same good spirit
is with the sisters elsewhere that is in the
temple; we must bear with each other and
not be lifted up because of our knowledge;
wisdom is what is needed to walk in the
ways of the Lord.
	Sister Hinckley, of Milliard Stake, made
a few remarks in reference to the stake in
which she lived. A prayer was offered by
Sister Young in reference to the Suffrage
movement in Convention at the present
time—(this afternoon) the prayer was fol-
lowed by those present all joining. Sister
Martha Tonks, Counselor Morgan Stake
Relief Society made an excellent report of
the stake and spoke well in reference to the
Society and prayed that we might prosper
in the land.
	Sister Ruth Hatch represented the Snow-
flake Stake, one circumstance particularly
of the one doctor in the stake having to
carry the mail instead of doctoring the
people, in order to earn his living; a factory
was in progress of building, sisters were
appointed on the board to help; the word
of wisdom was kept, even aged sisters
keeping it strictly. She felt diffident in
reporting the affairs of the stake and yet
willing to do her part; wherever there is
sickness or sorrow the sisters are there.
Counselor Jane S. Richards thought there
were many things to think of and to talk
about—Sister Young talked of a Confer-
ence in June—it would be between the
other two conferences neither too hot nor
too cold nor two wet nor too dry, and about
right and we could have testimonies and
experiences, we’ve heard some today from
the stand and there were as many in front
who have something to say and could edify
us, if we should happen to find it wouldn’t
be such a terrible thing, nothing ventured
even if we should fail—Young Ladies who
a while ago were young ladies, you are
welcome to stay in the Y. L. but I want
you to come along and help the aged people,
my daughter is fourty, she’s been fifteen
years in the Relief Society; only the other
day, I found a lot of Emily’s reports as a


[Column 1]
teacher; but we do ask them, the younger
women, to belong to the Relief Society we
do ask and pray and work for the Lord to
favor Zion, and for us to be favored
of the Lord—husbands come to look after
the testimony of their wives—spoke of an
orphan child who had been very diligent,
her father came and asked if she might be the
secretary. I got a letter from her that she
had resigned and was moving away—Sister
Eliza had been so kind to this little secre-
tary whose father used to come and tend
the children while she t[-]ok the minutes,
and it was acting a father’s and mother’s
part.
	Sister Richards moved and it was second-
ed that we have a Conference in June, the
president put the motion and the sisters
voted standing upon their feet, the vote was
unanimous.
	A notice was read, by the Secretary, from
Sister Sorenson, and Sister Zina made some
remarks upon it and of Sister Sorenson.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet, ”&c. Prayer by M. W. Snow.
June 4, 1895.
	EVENING SESSION.—Prayer by Bishop
Madsen. Sang, “For the strength of the
hills we bless thee.” Sister Robertson, of
Orangeville, Emery Co. gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society in that Stake, all
felt well and were doing a good work &c.
	Hannah A. Crosby, of Panguitch, gave
a good report of that stake, though she was
very timid, said it was hard for the sisters
to go to some places and could not unless
accompanied by brethren, as it would not
be safe, the long distance across unsettled
lands and camping out—at night.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards prefered to hear
from the sisters in the congregation; the
signs of the times are important and excit-
ing and she did not wish to be misunder-
stood, some of us are desirous and anxious
some more than others, we who have
brought up these young men in the Con-
vention why are we not good enough to
sit there by them; some men who have been
called to fill high places, and had the votes
of the people, have raised opposition to wo-
men voting. In the world ever since
Joseph organized the Relief Society the wo-
men of the whole world are trying to have
something in the shape of rights, we should
have these privileges and stand by the side
of men and help them. It seems so
pleasant to go from house to house and at-
tend to the sick and needy and it is good to
live for the Gospel—the Lord will help us
to do good, we feel refreshed and blest in
doing kind acts for others.
	President Joseph F. Smith said:—I have
felt impressed all day with a desire that I or
some one or more of the brethren might be
present with you during this conference,
that you might, at least, have the encourage-
ment that their presence might give, to
help you in your important labors. The
reason why President Woodruff is not
more often in the meetings of the Society,
is because, not only of his extreme age,
now being over 88—but because he is over-
whelmed with a multitude of other duties,
that make it physically impossible for him,
to do more than he is constantly doing.
The fact is he often does more than he
shogld.
	President Cannon has been a great deal
away from home of late, on important
business. He returned from the east this
morning, and the Presidency and twelve
have been occupied all day, in council, in
the consideration of important and pressing

[Column 2]
matters. I have thought of your confer-
ence many times during the day, and felt a
desire to come here, as requested by Aunt
Zina and others, to be present, and to lis-
ten to you if nothing more; therefore after
being released from my labors for the day,
I determined I would attend this meeting.
We have many temporal duties to perform,
which are in themselves essential, but we
are not all temporal, neither are we all
spiritual, and it is very difficult to deter-
mine just where the temporal ends and the
spiritual begins, since we are both tempor-
al and spiritual, and both are blended into
one. It is wise not to run to either extreme.
Joseph the Prophet organized the Relief
Society and it has been a help to the church
in many ways. The good influence of the
societies is greatly needed in social life, and
also in the homes of the Saints, over your
sons and daughters, as well as for the bene-
fit of the poor and needy. Your influence
should be potent for good. Everything
that tends to good is of God, and is a help
to the authorities of the church, local and
general for the grand object of their labors
is to do good in the world, and diminish
evil and wrong as much as possible until
righteousness shall reign from the “rivers
to the ends of the earth.”
	Referring to the subject of woman’s
rights he said in substance: he thought
many women were extremely careless and
indifferent to their rights. This was caused
to some extent by ignorance, and thought-
lessness, and to some extent by tradition.
We inherit much from the fathers, and
some of the relics of the dark ages, not to
say of barbarism are still cherished by some
people to their hurt. Accustomed to things
as they were and are, they rest content and
seek no changes, however much for the bet-
ter a change might be. But he could get
along with this class better than with such
as would not only make no exertion them-
selves to progress, but would and did exert
themselves to prevent the progression of
others. He regarded such as enemies to
society. Not intentionally perhaps, but
actually so whatever might be the cause of
their conduct.
	For his part, he wanted women to enjoy
every blessing, privilege, right or liberty
which he himself enjoyed in the legitimate
pursuit of happiness in this world or in the
world to come. The only differences or
distinctions that should be regarded or
recognized are those of nature or of sex.
We should guard with sacredness the des-
tinction which God himself has created,
they are inevitable, and we could not if we
would deface or change them, but God nev-
er did design that a woman should receive
less for the product of her labor, whether
of hand or brain, skilled or meniel than a
man should receive for the same labor no
better executed than hers. Nor did he de-
sign that women should be required to bear
equal burdens with men without sharing
equally the benefit thereof.
	He would not attempt to make a com-
parison of the difference between mans and
woman’s physical and mental capabilities
for they were questions foreign to the one
now affecting the public mind. The ques-
tion is, shall women be as free as men or
not, shall the male citizen have a voice in
civil government because he is a male,
and a female citizen be denied the same
privilege simply because she is a female?
Shall a man indignantly resent “taxation
without representation,” and a woman not
o likewise, or tamely submit to that which

[Column 3]
must be as great a wrong to her as it can be
to him, simply because she is a woman and
he a man? Man and woman are begotten
of the same father. are born of the same
mother, possess the same life, breathe the
same air, feel the some cold or heat, hunger
or thirst, pleasure or pain; eat the same
food, wear the same fabrics wrought only
in different forms and fashions; exist by the
same means, both bear the divine image
and possess the same divine nature. They
are born, live and die and live again for the
one great and glorious purpose. They are
indispensible to each other, each is the
complement of the other, both for this
world and the world to come, for time and
for all eternity. Then why shall one en-
joy civil rights and the other be denied
them? Why shall one be admitted to al
the avenues of mental and physical progress
and prosperity and the other be prohibited,
and prescribed within certain narrow limits,
to her material abridgment and detriment?
Do not women eat bread as well as men?
Shall men be favored as bread-winners, and
women be handicapped in their effort to win
bread? Shall a man be paid higher wages
than is paid to a woman for doing no bet-
ter than she does the very same work?
Shall the avenues for employment be mul-
tiplied to men and diminished to women
by the mere dictum or selfishness of men?
If man can perform labor for which wo-
man is physically disqualified, let him en-
joy the monopoly of it; let the same be
said of woman. By what process of reason-
ing can it be shown that a woman stand-
ing at the head of a family, with all the
responsibility resting upon her to provide
for them, should be deprived of the aven-
ues and ways or means that a man is like
circumstance may enjoy to provide for them?
Yet many of these unwholesome conditions
do exist, and that too vastly to the detri-
ment of women, not withstanding which
strange to say, women may be found who
seem to glory in their enthralled condition,
and who caress and fondle the very chains
and manacles which fetter and enslave
them! Let those who love this helpless de-
pendent condition and prefer to remain in
it and enjoy it; but for conscience and for
mercy’s sake let them not stand in the
way of those of their sisters who would
be, and of right ought to be free. Let
them who will not enter into the door of
equal rights and impartial suffrage step
aside, and leave the passage clear to those
who desire to enter. It is said if the wo-
men have equal rights they must bear equal
burdens with the men. They do this al-
ready except that their burdens are made
unequal in that they are deprived of the
enjoyment of equal rights. Yes but, says
the objector, they must sit on juries, they
must serve as policemen, sherriffs, mar-
shals, soldiers, &c. Well, let them do so
if they want to. and can get such office.
But what nonsense this is, it is all right
for them to be qualified for any and all
positions, and to possess the right or privi-
lege to fill them, but that they must as so
does not follow. There are many men in
every community who never sat on a jury,
never having been called to do so, nor to
be a soldier, or to do any duty, nor to be
sherriff, policemen, marshals, nor even
governors or judges, and yet they have pos-
sessed all the qualifications to fill any of these
positions. Therefore why shall the women
be compelled to do things because she has
the franchise that men are not compelled to
do! Many women are afraid of woman’s


suffrage because office loving, office seeking,
office monopolizing men have tried to
frighten them from seeking their right
thereby, possibly, lessening the chances for
those same office-loving men to get and
hold the offices of state.
	Let no woman be detered for a moment
from her whole duty, by such contemptible
twaddle.
	Brother Robinson, from Wayne Stake
was a little anxious to meet with some of
our brethren and sisters from his home; en-
joyed the remarks of all to-night—speaking
for them, the sisters are awake to the Relief
Society work, the principles of truth and
the youth of Zion and in the unity and in
the harmony; the world will follow your
examples.
	Sister Woodbury felt to endorse what
President Smith had said she felt that we
should have equal rights with men.
	Sister E. S. Richards spoke of the build-
ing which we ought to have and so on,
made other remarks we have had many
suggestions made here, we are a blest
people, we want to establish ourselves—I
beg your pardon for taking the time. 
Singing, Doxology, dismissed with prayer,
	E.B. Wells.


We Raise to Thee.” Sister Lucy W.
Kimball offered a very beautiful prayer.
Singing “Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day
of Salvation.” Minutes of the afternoon
session of the previous conference read and
approved. The 19th and 20th Wards were
reported. A letter from Sister Elmina S.
Taylor resigning her position as First
Counselor in the organization of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, was
read by the Secretary, also a letter of res -
ignation from the second Counselor Helen
Mar Whitney.
	President M. I. Horn, felt very sorry to
have to perform so unpleasant a task, for
all knew what good and noble women Sis-
ter Taylor and Sister Whitney were, but
Sister Taylor has long been overburdened
with her many other duties, and Sister
Whitney whom we love so dearly, has for
a long time been in such poor health that
the office has been a burden upon her. Yet
the duties of the society are constantly in-
creasing and I feel I must have help.
Therefore as it has been moved and
seconded these resignations be accepted I
submit it to you. The motion received a
pathetic response. And a vote of thanks
were tendered to the Sisters for their faith-
ful labors.
	President A. M. Cannon spoke of each of
the sisters in the highest terms of praise
and felt that none could have more ability
to hold this office, and that President Horne
would not be able to get any one to do as
much as she does herself. There are so
many who are competent, one person should
not be overburdened with offices. Presi-
dent Horne said she had made this a mat-
ter of prayer and had chosen Sister Annie
T. Hyde as First Counselor and Sister
Clara C. Cannon as her Second Counselor.
They were unanimously accepted; Sisters
Hyde and Cannon expressed a willingness
to accept the office and do all they could to
advance the work of the society. Presidents
C. W. Penrose and J. E. Taylor gave some
excellent and timely instruction as did also
President Z. D. H. Young and Sister Lucy
Kimball: Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Clara
C. Cannon were set apart as Counselors to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion by the Presidency of
the Stake.
	The officers of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, and also the officers of this
Stake were presented by the Secretary and
heartily sustained by those present. T'he
Secretary also urged Secretaries to be
prompt in sending in their yearly repo
immediately after June 30th; and also 
take the Exponent, whereby they might
be kept in touch and familiar with what
women were doing and what they  would
be expected to do in the future.
	Conference closed by singing, Doxology
Prayer by Bishop Samuel Atwood.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Secretary.
        				
	BUNKERVILLE, NEVADA.
	Editor Exponent: —It is with pleasure
we address a few lines to you hoping they
will meet your approval and thinking it
might be of some interest to you to know
we have a Relief Society organized here and
in good running order. We have our
monthly testimony meetings in which our
much loved little paper is read, with pleas-
ure.  We hold our meetings on Fast Day
in the afternoon and generally have. very
good attendance. Sister Mary Bunker and
myself take the Exponent together and we


feel as though we could not do without it.
Wishing you success I remain yours truly,
	HARRIET M. EARL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Utah Woman’s Press Club, was held in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT Office, July 31st,
1895. Vice-President Ruth M. Fox pre-
siding. Opened with prayer by Mrs.
Phoebe C. Young. Roll call answered
with sentiments from John Ruskin. A let-
ter and a poem from President Ellis R.
Shipp, M. D., was read by the secretary.
A motion was made and carried that the
secretary answer the letter, sending love
and appreciation from the club. Honorary-
president E. B. Wells then read a beautiful
original poem, “A Voice from the Moun-
tains.”
	As Dr. R. B. Pratt, who had been ap-
pointed to lecture on the Single Tax Ques-
tion, was absent, Mrs. E. B. Wells read a
letter from Carrie Chapman Catt—of the
N.W. S. A. outlining a plan for a course
of study on government. To hear the
pamphlet gave one a desire to be familiar
with the forms of government.
	The program for the next meeting is
—Answer to roll call with sentiments from
Mrs. Dorathea Felicia Hemans. The Sin-
gle Tax—Romania B. Pratt. Life of Vi-
late Kimball, Edith Rossiter. Poem, Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Song, Miss Pearl Russell.
Meeting adjourned until Aug. 31st. Dis-
missed by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder.
	L. S. WILCOX, Secretary.


LETTER TO U. W. P. C.

	WILLOW BEND, July, 30th, 1895.
Dear Friends:
	LIFE seems one endless contradiction of
itself, its pendulum swings continuously from
one extreme to another.
	Thus when I wrote you last I was in the
far north, now I am drifted to southern
climes, so far, in fact, that I find myself at
this writing, unable to join my little band
at our regular gathering.
	This is a beautiful little oasis, a green
spot in a wilderness, as it were, the regions
round about being of red clay, even many


of the hills in this vicinity are of the same
color and have a barren appearance, with-
out vegetation, but as we find good in
everything here are located important Salt
Mines.
	Traveling southward we are at once
struck with the artistic outline and color-
ing of the surrounding mountains. It
seems to me any one raised in Utah has a
natural or instinctive love for the dear old
mountains, there is a peculiar charm about
those in the vicinity of my early home to
me they seem as old friends ever faithful
and true, constant and unchanging, and
when in a new country my eyes enjoy these
rugged formations. I study their physical
arrangement, their history and origin as I
am wont to study the characteristics of new
acquaintances and friends I make in life.
	But I imagine you, my dear friends, at
the present time more absorbed with the
political phase of woman’s career than with
literature, poetry, or art, and I trust that in
the near future the great problem will be
solved to your individual satisfaction and
for our mutual benefit.
	In the meantime please push on the in-
terests of the club and find in it joy, satis-
faction and continued progress.
	With kind love to all I am as ever yours,
ELLIS R. SHIPP.


R. S. AND P. A. 

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The regular quarterly conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was held in
the Assembly Hall June 15th, 1895. Pres-
dent M. I Horne presiding. Present on
the stand of the Central Board, President
Z. D. H. Young, Counselors Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith, also Mary
Ann Hyde, President R. S. Sanpete and
Sisters Lucy V. Kimball and Maria W.
Wilcox. Meeting commenced by singing
“Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salva-
tion.” Prayer by Lydia D. Alder con-
tinued by singing “O! Say What is Truth.”
Minutes of the morning session of the pre-
vious conference read and approved. Pres-
dent Horne was glad to see so many pres-
ent and wanted to see them come close
together, the spirit of the Gospel was to
draw people together it is necessary for us
to pass through trials that we may become
perfect we should wake up to our many
duties. The suffrage has now come to us,
and with it new duties. We must not be
indifferent to those privileges which will
bring to ourselves a better government.
	Verbal reports of the different wards were
then called for. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th,
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th and 18th were all reported
as doing well.
	President Horne urged the several
branches to pay up their dues, would not
continue the reports longer, as all would
like to hear President Angus M. Cannon.
	President Cannon felt pleased to see our
conference so well attended, and had been
much interested in hearing the reports
given of the work being done in the differ-
ent branches. Urged the Sisters to press
forward and be faithful in performing their
duties.
	Meeting closed by singing “Lord Dis-
miss Us With Thy Blessing.” Prayer by
President A. M. Cannon.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
Meeting commenced by singing “Our God


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CORFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 13, AND
14, 1895.

	THE Conference was called to order by
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, president of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah. Prayer was offered by Rev. Anna
Shaw.
	Mrs. Wells introduced the Governor of
Utah, Hon. Caleb W. West, who wel-
comed the guests.
ADDRESS By GOVERNOR WEST.
Ladies And Gentlemen:
	I am informed that this is an assemblage
under the auspices of the National Ameri-
can Woman’s Suffrage Association. It is
one of the four Conferences that has been
provided for to be held in the United States
the present year in the interest of Woman’s
Suffrage. I am very glad to know that our
City and our Territory has been selected for
the holding of this Conference. I think
that it was wisely chosen because in the
Convention that assembled here during the
past month to form the organic law which
will make Utah one of the States of the
Union, moved by the spirit of the people
behind them they wisely, justly and
judiciously provided that there should be
no discrimination of sex in this new State.
Therefore it is meet and proper that those
who agreed with our people upon this sub-
ject should meet here in Council and in Con-
ference to devise ways and means to fur-
ther the cause that is so dear to the hearts
of many noble and self-sacrificing women.
	Now upon this occasion I don’t deem it
necessary or proper that I should attempt
to discuss the question—I have not as I un-
derstand it been invited here for that pur-
pose. The distinguished honor which was
done me in asking me to come here this
morning is to present to this audience a
woman who is known not only over our
whole land but over the civilized world,
one who has devoted her noble self-sacrific-
ing life to the cause of her sex, and in so
doing of course has devoted it in the high-
est sense to humanity. Now a word of in-
troduction here is entirely unnecessary I am
sure: in fact Susan B. Anthony was known
to the people of Utah long before it ever
knew your humble servant and speaker.
Twenty-five years ago as I understand Miss
Anthony paid a visit to this Territory. I
believe upon that occasion she was pre-
sented to its people by the distinguished
citizen who was then Mayor, who is now
dead, Mayor Daniel H. Wells. Now then
I trust and believe that Miss Anthony has
come with very pleasant recollections of
her visit; that she has returned to us now
is a matter of congratulation and pleasure,
and I trust that she upon this occasion will
find her visit both pleasant and profitable.
I can assure those ladies who have come
to visit us, that there is but little doubt that
the Constitution which has been made in
this hall and which will be submitted to
the people, our people at the November
election, will be carried by an overwhelm-
ing majority as it ought to be. (applause.)

[Column 2]
	Now permit me to introduce to you Miss
Susan B. Anthony. (applause)
REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	My good Friends:—This is the second
time on which I have been honored by the
Governor of a state to open our meeting,
to make the introductory speech. The
other night in Cheyenne Gov. Richards
made the opening address and presented
the speakers. Now to-day Governor West
of this Territory has made the opening ad-
dress of this Conference and I want you
my dear women to ask how it happened
that it should be those two Inter-mountain
States in which women hold the right of
suffrage, in which women are absolutely
clothed with that power in one state, and
have borne to the ballot box the vote not
only at City and State elections but at the
last general Presidential election absolutely
went to the ballot box and voted for the
President—how it happened that woman’s
enfranchisement is fully recognized—that
this Territory in its organic law to be pre-
sented to Congress has engrafted in it this
primal idea of perfect equality of rights to
women, civil and polttical, how it happened
that the highest officials of these two moun-
tain States should come to the front and in-
troduce at the meeting, or present the speak-
ers at a meeting of this sort. I don’t be-
lieve you could have gotten the Governor
of the State of New York or Pennsylvania
or the Governors of any of the older states;
I don’t believe you could have impressed it
upon the minds of any one of those Gover-
nors that it would be an honor to him as
well as an honor to the audience or people
to come forward and occupy this position.
It is because the women of this Territory
when it becomes a State are to be the
equals of the men, that it is best for the
man holding the highest position in the
State to take this position. I shall never
forget an incident which occurred in Wash-
ington last year after a majority of the men
of the State of Colorado had gone to the
ballot box and voted to place the ballot in
the hands of the women of the Centennial
State, when invited to come to our meeting
every representative of Wyoming and every
representative of the new State of Colorado
was present to bear his testimony to the
g[-]eat principle of equality of rights, and I
presented those men to the large audience
assembled in the City of Washington and I
made the remark that while representatives
and others of the entire state of New York
had been going to Washington for the last
quarter of a century making appeals and ad-
dresses before Congressional Committees as
well as other large audiences we never yet
had such a delegation of members of Con-
gress and the Senators in the United States
senate come to the hotel to pay their re-
spects to the New York delegate, to our
Convention—nor had I ever known of the
representatives of the whole delegation,
Congressional delegation from any other
State in the Union to have come to the con-
vention to make their assertion that they
believed in equality of rights for women, it
is not until women actually hold the power
of the ballot in their hands that the mass of
government officials in each of the States
will ever think of it, will even know that
women are a part of the people. So I con-
gratulate all of you upon this fact that in
this great Conference that is assembled here
that three states out of the forty-five, [for
I consider your State virtually in the Union]
three states ont of the forty-five have

[Column 3]
recognized this fundamental principle of the
right of women to an equal voice in the
government with men. Is it not remark-
able that for over a hundred years since our
Revolutionary Fathers made the declara-
tion that all men are created equal, that
governments derive their just power from
the consent of the governed, that taxation
without representation is tyranny, is it not
remarkable that it has taken one hundred
years to convince the men that women
were a part of all men who are created
equal and that women are a part of the
governed whose consent should be given or
with-held from the government, that wo-
men as tax payers have a right to represen-
tation, that to tax women without confer-
ring the right of representation was equally
tyrannous to women as to men, is it not re-
markable that it has taken one hundred
years and more to convince and educate the
men of this nation that women are a part
of the men, a part of the people, a part of
those whose consent should be given or
witheld in every government organization
of the City, State and nation. But now
this point has been obtained, this justice
has been accorded in three of the States
wholly, and in one of the states partially,
they have municipal suffrage in the state of
Kansas and in twenty-three of the states
they enjoy the privilege of voting on
school matters and in five more the question
of equal suffrage is pending. This ques-
tion has come to be discussed and agitated
in every possible, public assembly.
	You can scarcely enter an educational con-
vention or a convention for the good of the
different religious denominations, a scientific
convention, a political convention of any
sort that the question of granting equal
rights to women is not uppermost. Dur-
ing the last two years there is scarcely a
legislature that has not had this question
of the extension of suffrage to women un-
discussion and has had a bill presented and
in many cases voted upon it. In most of
the cases where the bill passed one house
it failed to pass in the other. In several of
the states a bill for the submission of the
question has been passed by both houses so
that in five of the states in the Union to-
day the question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is now pending. The legislatures of
Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California and
New York have during the past year passed
this resolution so that the whole question,
or the question of giving the right of suf-
frage to women is being seriously consider-
ed. So now you may say it is only a ques-
tion of time as some of our friends have
been wont to answer us in the days gone by
and now the question has become one of a
very short time when every possible gather-
ing of men and women under the stars and
stripes and will discuss the question.
	When such a splendid majority in your
Constitutional Convention gave their voice
in favor of this perfect equal recognition
for the women of this country. I stand
here to congratulate the men of the Ter-
ritory of Utah for if the rank and file, if the
vast mass of the men who go to the ballot
box in the Territory of Utah had been op-
posed to the enfranchisement of women,
then the representatives in this convention
held during the last month would never
have felt justified in having incorporated
that splendid suffrage clause in the Con-
stitution, it is because the rank and file of
the men and women of this Territory have
been educated into the idea of perfect


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


equality of rights for women that the con-
vention was able to pass that resolution
and incorporate the suffrage clause giving
equal rights to women. So it is not only
the men of the convention that have to be
congratulated but the men all over the Ter-
ritory who are the constituents of these
representative men in convention assembled.
Representative men cannot do much beyond
what the rank and file of their constituents
shall demand, and the women of Utah
must remember when they hold the ballot
in their hands that their representatives in
the legislature will be able to do but very
little beyond the majority of the rank and
file, the representatives are always to con-
form to the fountain, and the fountain can
rise no higher than the source that feeds it.
So legislation can do but little more than
what is demanded by the vast majority of
the rank and file of the voters. Therefore
I congratulate not only the representatives
who sat in this hall of the great and
glorious Constitution which is to be pre-
sented to the voters of this Territory for
ratification, I congratulate the rank and
rfile of the voters all over the state for hav-
ing made demands in their respective
localities to produce this splendid results.
	But I want to say to you that as President
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion I am here for the purpose of looking
into this new constituency of the Woman’s
Suffrage Association and I am here to take
the chair in this convention by virtue of
having been re-elected by the delegates
representing the thirty-six different states
and societies of the Union composing the
National. Ever since we were fairly or-
ganized Utah has always been with us and
among us to help to make and to establish
and to maintain the National Woman Suf-
frage Association. We have always had
with us the delegates from Utah. Nearly
always have we had with us the lady who
is now the President of our Territorial As-
sociation Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells who
represented the women of this Territory at
the Convention in Washington. As I am
President by the choice of the delegates
sent from those thirty-six states I feel
highly honored with my position and I am
delighted to be here and I congratulate you
in their name and on their behalf in the
grand step that has been taken by your Con-
stitutional Convention in contributing to
the admission of Utah as a State giving
the equality of Suffrage to women. (Ap-
plause.)


COOKING IN AN ELECTRIC OVEN.

		MARVELS IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE.

	ENGLISH electricians deserve much credit
for the practical way in which they have
solved many of the problems arising out of
development in electrical cookery. A well-
known writer on the chemistry of cookery
has given it as his opinion that the perfect
arrangement for an oven would be the
radiation of its heat from all sides. This
is now done in an electric oven which is
having a large sale in London. The pro-
cess is said to produce a cooked meat abso-
lutely wholesome and extremely appetizing.
There is no combustion whatever in the
oven, and the food, being cooked in a pure
atmosphere, cannot possibly be tainted.
The heat is turned on at any part merely
by the movement of a switch. It is pro-
duced inside the oven, and it is so conserved
that after the oven is once made hot what is


required to carry on the process is little 
more than sufficient to make up for slight
leakages. The electric oven can be put on
the kitchen dresser when needed, and it
throws practically neither heat nor smell.
Tabulated lists are provided from which, the
weight and description of the joint being
given, full instructions are derived as to the
time and temperature of the required cook-
ing. Roast mutton takes a temperature of
330 degrees Fahrenheit, beef 340 degrees
and a heat of 370 degrees is needed to give
puff pastry its desirable tint and consistency.
The comparative coolness of the outside of
the oven is a singular feature; as the chief
remarked at a recent dinner: “You could
sit down on the oven while you roast in-
side ”—Boston Traveller.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN COLORADO.

	ALICE THACHER POST, in The New
Earth, gives the following notes taken by
her during a recent visit to Colorado. It is
a good antidote for the unfavorable report
of a "sporting man," Bat Masterson, lately
published in the Boston Post:
	During a recent journey through Colo-
rado my husband and I naturally asked
questions in regard to the practical work-
ing of the suffrage recently granted to wo-
men of that State.
	To our first question, put to the National
Single Tax Committeemen for Colorado,
came promptly the answer:
	"It has dignified the suffrage."
	Mr. Bucklin went on to say that the wo-
men had taken their duties very seriously;
that they had attired themselves with care,
and had made it the important business of
that day.
	That they dressed themselves especially
for the occasion was corroborated elsewhere,
and it delighted me greatly. If women
thought of the suffrage as a masculine
function, in its exercise they would imitate
men, and go to the polls in their everyday
marketing gowns. But no, it is a feminine
function and it is to be exercised in feminine
fashion. And when a woman has a serious
decision to make or duty to perform, she
dresses herself with care. Therefore they
put on their good clothes when they go to
the polls.
	In most cases husbands and wives had
gone together to the polls.
	And how were the polls?
	Orderly and clean. The party in power
had not dared to have them otherwise, lest
they should lose some of the women's votes.
They were in better condition than the post
office. Loafers were kept away from them,
and no drunkenness was to be seen upon
the streets during the whole day. I had
always maintained that if the polls were
"not fit places for women" they could
easily be made so, but it had not occurred
to me that the mere fact of the woman's
having a vote would compel their cleaning.
	Had political differences caused any
family dissensions?
	The idea was scouted.
	Did the women vote as their husbands
voted?
	Probably they usually did, but not in all
cases. Two women told me with amuse-
ment that their husbands had never asked
how they voted, and only knew by inference.
Mr. Bucklin gave us a new idea. Suppose
the wife does vote as her husband votes and
without the exercise of individual opinion, 
that to a degree gives the man two votes.


But those two votes represent the family
idea in the State; and our committeeman
holds that the vote of a married man, the
head of a family, is likely to be worth more
to the community than the vote of the ir-
responsible bachelor, the incomplete man—so
that it is not a bad idea to have it sometimes
counted for more.
	Where the women’s votes did tell, as such
was very naturally and properly in matters
of communal housekeeping, as in a city
which had been overidden by a monopolistic
alkaline water company, where the women
voted overwhelmingly for a pure mountain-
water supply.


OBITUARIES.

	IN memory of Mrs. Julia Ann Whittaker Moss,
wife of David Moss, one of the Mormon Battalion
who died May 22, 1895, at her home in St. George.
She was born in England, March 11th, 1835, and
was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Amaison
Whittaker; she came with her parents to Utah in
1850, and with her husband was called to Dixie
thirty years ago, she leaves one son and two
daughters, and her aged companion, and ten
grand children to mourn her loss; she was a lov-
ing wife and mother, she performed a noble work
in the St. George Temple for the dead. May we
who still remain, do as well as she has done.
				BETSY G. WHITTAKER.
	DIED at Goshen Utah, June 1st, 1895, our aged
and respected Sister, Ann Gardener in her ninety
first year. She was born the 27th of April 1805,
in Glasgow Scotland. She obeyed the gospel in
1852, and like many others, through obeying the
Gospel, was left a widow with her family to sup-
port. She emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossing the
plains in Captain Dan McArthurs Company of
handcarts with her three sons and two daughters,
enduring bravely all the hardships incident to
such a journey. She leaves three sons and one
daughter, forty-two grand children and thirty-
five great grand-children and numerous friends
to mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, and a teacher in our Relief Society, we
wish to cherish her memory and offer these
Resolutions of Respect.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has taken from our midst our aged and beloved
sister and co laborer, we wish to emulate her vir-
tues and her noble qualities.
	Whereas—She was patient and cheerful through
all her trials, and faithful in the performance of
her duties, in fact her whole life in particular was
given to God and his service, and our long and
continued relation with her, make it imperative
that we record our appreciation of her.
	Therefore be it Resolved that the wisdom and
ability and labors of our beloved sister be held in
grateful remembrance.
	Also Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions
be copied in our record of the Goshen Relief
Society, and one given to the bereaved relatives
and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
	We say with the poet Sloan,
		“Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
			Their wearied bodies down
		Who leave this frail and mortal clay
			To seek a fadeless crown.”
	EMMA L. JENKINS, MARTHA CHRISTENSON,
ELISON GOURLEY—Committee.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14th.
Tuition $50.00	Residence 238 East, 4th
South.	Telephone 383.

		CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
