VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1895. NO. 14.


CONTENTS:

	Ellen Battelle Dietrick—E. B. W. Christmas—
E. S. Are We Worthy—M. E. K. U. W. P. C.
—Ellis R. Shipp. Huntington Emery Co. An
Evening In The Country—E. R. S.	Mrs. Stan-
ton's Birthday In St. George—Cactus. One
Christmas Eve. Twenty-eighth Annual Conven-
tion Of The N. A. W. S. A. R. S. Report—
Nancy H. Allred. In Memoriam. S. L. Co. W.
S. A—Carrie C. Newman. Conference N. A. W.
S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Celebrating Statehood.	Emma
G. Bull. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Revelation—Alice Hoyt Hayes.
The Message Of The Pines—Mary Grant Major.
Ballad Of Lilies—Genevieve Lucile Browne.
The Balance Of Life.


A REVELATION.

I GAIZED on a scene I had known in my youth
	Before through the world I had ranged,
And things were so diff'rent they seemed not the
	same,
And I knew not ’twas I who had changed.

I heard a sweet song I had heard when a child;
	But my heart did not thrill at the tone
It breathed forth no spirit of love and of hope
	And I knew not the change was mine own.

I looked on a picture that filled once my soul,
	And dazzled mine eyes with its sheen,
But gone was the gladness it spoke to my heart
	And I knew not the change was in me.

I clasp the warm hand of a friend I had loved,
	But so diff'rent he seemed and so strange
My hero! I’d worshiped in mem’ry for years
	And I thought it was he who had changed.

I returned to the home of my youth’s happy
	morn,
The same, yet it seemed not the same.
	E’en the walks and the walls had grown narrow
	and small,
Then I knew it was I who had changed.
ALICE HOYT HAYES.


THE MESSAGE OF THE PINES.

Just under my window the delicate plumes
Of the sweet Persian Lilac are swaying,
While out of the midst of a thousand perfumes,
Oh, what are the flower-spirits saying?
Just listen, and lo! if the language you know,
You will learn why the pines are all listening so;

“Come dear golden sunshine, ccme cloak us
	about,
Bronzed bees in your questings fly in and fly out---
Swift breezes caress us, blue skies bend anear,
And smiling take back the dew of each tear.
We live! we exult! Is it pleasure or pain?
Shall we desolate stand in the winter again,
While the pines in their pride fling to blusterings
	rude
The banners they lifted when summer winds
	wooed?”

Through the pines went a murmur, a shivering
	cry,
And I knew they had hearts or they never could
	sigh.
O’er questioners sweet the dark heads bent low,
As they whispered this message; Oh joyous ones
	know
That to live is to die, to have is to lose,


To happiness clasp is to sorrowing choose.
In tender adorning no blossoms are ours,
We never have thrilled to the kiss of the flowers.
We grieve no past glory; oh, sorrows profound,
He never wore garland who ne’er is uncrowned!
MARY GRANT MAJOR.


[Column 1]
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.

	The sudden and unexpected death of
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick, on the 25th of
November last, resulting from a surgical
operation, was a great shock to those who
knew and loved her. The equal suffrage
cause has lost in Mrs. Dietrick one of its
ablest workers. Educated, cultivated and
refined. Mrs Dietrick was well calculated
to support logically and from the highest
standpoint the principle of equality of sex
in which she so firmly believed and which
she advocated with such courage in the face
of the strongest opposition, yet without
any display of antagonism or personal feel-
ing. William Loyd Garrison in the Wo-
man's Journal of Boston says, “She was
ever ready to break a lance against privilege,
and the frequent provocation to do battle for
her sex prompted her to exceed her strength
and was the proximate cause of her illness.”
	“During the referendum agitation her
newspaper correspondence was excessive.
At the same time she prepared and delivered
a course of lectures, and wrote a yet un-
published book.”
	Contrary to the general idea of women
doing public service, Mrs. Dietrick was a
loyal and devoted wife, and a tender and
sympathetic mother. She leaves a husband
and daughters, to mourn her, to them, ir-
reparable loss; but they will have the
cordial sympathy of all who knew Mrs.
Dietrick’s great worth to the world of
humanity.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a native of Kentucky,
but moved to the North, when she became
deeply interested in active work for women,
and in Boston and its vicinity she found a
congenial and helpful atmosphere. Mrs.
Josephine K. Henry of Kentucky in her
glowing tribute to Mrs. Dietrick says,
“Since she won the title of 'the Daniel
Webster of the suffrage cause’ we Ken-
tuckians, who only loaned her to Mas-
sachusetts, have taken special pride in the
magnificent service Mrs. Dietrick rendered
in the conflict for woman’s freedom,” she
also adds later in her article, “The graceful
symmetry of her charming personality left
not a single angle, while her natural gifts
and mental attainments rendered her at
once the grandest type of American wo-
manhood, and a stateswoman worthy of
presidential honors. With reverent love
we pay this poor tribute to this apostle of
liberty.”
	Several of the Utah delegations of ladies
when in the East have had the pleasure
of knowing this talented and genial lady,
whose wit and brilliancy, as well as her
warm and tender heart and perfect man-
ners, attracted them to her, and they will
have many remembrances of her cordial

[Column 2]
greetings and kind expressions of interest
in Utah affairs.
	Only last winter when in Washington at-
tending the National Council of Women,
the writer recalls with what enthusiasm
she alluded to the near approach of state-
hood for Utah, and inquired as to the
prospects for equal suffrage in the Constitu-
tion. When answered that it was fully ex-
pected, as both political parties had declared
for it in their platform, she spoke enthusias-
tically of visiting here in the near future,
in fact she expected to come with Miss
Anthony and Miss Shaw in May when the
National Suffrage Conference was held in
this city.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a charming woman
and a delightful speaker, she had a good
voice, a fine presence and her language was
simply perfect.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton says, “Those
who knew Ellen Battelle Dietrick best, who
had listened to her scholarly lectures, and
read her logical writings in journals and
magazines of the day, can appreciate her
loss to the public; but none of us can es-
timate the loss of such a presence to her
family and friends.
	We counted Mrs. Dietrick among our
personal friends, we have had a number of
letters from her, and she interested herself
sufficiently in our work to become a sub-
scriber for our little paper, and mentioned
it favorably and most kindly. E. B. W.


CHRISTMAS.

	WAS, or was not the 25th of Dec. the
birthday of Christ? This day could hardly be
Christ’s Birthday as it was the height of the
rainy season in Judea, and shepherds could
hardly be watching their flocks by night in
the plains, some say his birthday is in April,
but it is not known when it is. Yet the 25th,
of December will always be observed as
his birthday.
	The institution of Christmas festival is
attributed to the spurious Decretals to
Telesphorus (136—61 A. D.) The first
traces that can be found of celebrating
Christmas was about the time of the
emperor Commodus (180—92 A. D.) In
the reign of Diocletian,while the ruler was
keeping court at Nicomedia, he learned that
a great many Christians were assembled in
the city to celebrate the birthday of Jesus.
This enraged the ruler, who was not a
Christian, he sent men to close the church
doors and set fire to the building, thus all
the worshippers perished in the flames.
	At this time there was no set day for
observing the nativity of the Savior, some
held it in the month of May and April,
while others held it in January
	In the Roman Catholic Church, three
masses are preformed on Christmas, one at
midnight, one at day break, and one in the
morning.
	The day is celebrated also by the Anglo
Catholic Church—special psalms are sung,
a special preface is made in the communion
service, and the Athanasians creed is said
or sung. The Lutheran church, on the


Continent, also observe Christmas, but the
Presbyterian churches in Scotland, and the
whole of the English dissenters, reject it,
in its religious aspect, as a “human inven-
tion.”
	Within the last hundred years, the festiv-
ities once appropriated to Christmas have
much fallen off. These at one time lasted
with more or less brilliancy till Candlemas,
and with great spirit till the twelfth day;
but now a service in the morning at the
different churches, and a meeting in the
evening composed. when possible, of the
various branches and members of the fam-
ily, is all that distinguishes the day above
others.
	In England, dissenters, as well as church-
men. keep it as a social holiday, on which
there is a complete cessation from all busi-
ness. E. S.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
ARE WE WORTHY?

	YES, this question often arises in my
mind; now since we are called Latter-day
Saints, are we worthy of this name? How
do we compare wiih the former-day Saints?
	I well remember after I believed this
Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught,
and could see plainly it was the same in
every respect, I was about to accept it with
all my heart, I was asked if I could afford
to be called a Saint. I replied “no, indeed!
I would not dare to be called a saint. That
would imply one who was holy and had ar-
rived at perfection.” No this, was a stum-
bling block to me, and I felt to object say-
ing it would be presumption.
	Then I was told by accepting the Gospel
and obeying its laws I would thereby ar-
rive at that state, and become a Saint, just
as the former-day Saints did. Well what
were those laws. Christ’s Sermon on the
Mount, was the beginning, and to love the
Lord with your might, mind and strength,
and love your neighbor as yourself, our
Savior said would include all of the com-
mandments that Moses had received. Then
to read the Epistles of St Peter, James and
John and St. Paul, you will see how great
blessings of the Spirit they gained by ob-
serving these laws and putting them in
practice. I could then see there was a pos-
sibility of becoming a Saint, by applying our
minds to the lessons, and I resolved to
make the effort, feeling encouraged by the
invitation Jesus gave, saying “Take my
yoke upon you and learn of me for my
yoke is easy and the burden is light.” I
then made the effort, it is now over fifty
years, and I find it is even so, when I have
the good spirit, it is a joyful feeling to carry
into practice those laws, but without that
spirit it would have an opposite effect.
	But remember this good spirit is easily
grieved, as our Savior said, “If ye love any-
thing more than me ye are not worthy of
me.” And the Apostle James says if any
man love the world the love of the Father
is not in him: ye can not serve God and
mammon.
	Well since we have our agency to choose
which to love best let us be wise, in making
our choice. I believe a sound mind will
naturally love sound principles best. And
such are the teachings of Jesus the Savior
of the world, and the more we become
acquainted with those principles, the greater
joy it affords, until we feel to explain truly
this is the true riches: because it affords
that dignity and self-respect, with a com-
posed mind, which dignity with the spirit

[Column 2]
of the world would be lacking in composure
of mind. No, with the worldly spirit it
makes one reckless. No, it does not teach
you patience and composure of mind which
the good spirit teaches, also to cultivate
hope, as the Apostle Peter says, “Cast all
your care upon Him for he careth for you.”
And the Apostle James says that “Perfect
love casts out fear, for fear hath torment,”
then let me ask what riches are superior to
this; is it not the true riches?
	Now let me ask, what sensible sound-
minded person could prefer the riches of
this world to that which is taught in the
New Testament by Jesus and His Apostles.
	I feel to regret that the people in these
days are not better acquainted with its
teachings: In my youth we read it in our
day schools, and recited it in Sunday School
It was a book I was so familiar with I could
defend its principles when talking with our
minister who told me saying, “If there be
prophecies they will fail, and tongues shall
cease." Here he stopped, and I finished the
sentence for him saying “and knowledge
shall vanish away. For now we see in
part and hear in part, but when that which
is perfect is come that which is in part will
be done away.” Then he said “who ever
shall add to the prophecy of this book to
Him shall be added the plagues that are
written in this book.” “Yes” I replied,
“that was St. John’s vision. We should
not add or diminish to that which he saw in
his vision. Yet the angel told him saying
‘he should again prophecy before nations,
kings and people.’ Here prophecy comes
again and is called the testimony of Jesus.”
	I always have a feeling of regret that the
Rev Mr. Proll of Utica N. Y. would not
investigate this Gospel: He said “I must
excuse him as he had to visit a sick person,”
and he said I was young and would yet see
the error of my ways and come back. This
was over fifty years ago, but I am more firm
now than then, for that which was my faith
then afterward became a knowledge.
	I must say that I am thankful that the
testament was a school book in my youth,
for through it I became acquainted with
Jesus and his Apostles, and the opposition
they met while they sojourned here. How
often did I wish I could see them and hear
them talk, and now I often wish I could
see the beloved disciple John who is to tar-
ry in this world until Jesus comes again, two
of our people and perhaps more have seen
him and talked to him. It is our duty to
give strict heed to the Gospel that Jesus
our Lord and master gave to his Apostles.
Our prophet Joseph said if we do not, this
will not be a land of Zion unto you. This
we can realize from time to time. And I
would ask is there not danger that we be-
come weary in well doing and take a rest
until our lamps have gone out. Let us
rather take the advice of St. Paul who said
you must be diligent in business and fer-
vent in spirit serving the Lord, then we
will be worthy to be called Latter-day
Saints, will we not?
M. E. K.
Nov. 24, 1895.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting was held Nov. 30th,
1895, at the office of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, President E. B, Wells in the chair.
Opening prayer by Mrs. Z. D. H. Young.
Roll called, members answered with poetical
sentiments from E. R. Shipp.


Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor read a very able
and interesting paper on the life and labors
of Eugene Field and closed with one of
his favorite poems, “Little Boy Blue.”
	Comments on the paper were next in
order. The discussion opened by Miss
Laura Hyde relating a newspaper article,
she had recently read, refering to the
peculiarities of the poet’s nature. His lack
of business tact. How he squandered his
means on novelties—“bought butterflies
instead of paying his taxes.” His nature
being so intensely poetical he could not
dwell on common-place and practicalities.
	Mrs. L. D. Alder spoke of a notable
event of his life. Some twenty-four years
ago he was supposed to have passed from
this mortal existence, but through some
strange intervention he lived again.
	Mrs. H. A. Badger and Dr. E. R. Shipp
each read poems from the same author
Bethlehem Town” and “Singing in God’s
Acre" both showing the powerful pathos
and spirituality of this noted writer.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder then read an
original poem entitled “In the City of the
Dead”
	On motion of Mrs. R. M. Fox the rules
were suspended and the meeting assumed
the form of an informal reception in honor
of the Misses Chase from Boston who were
present on the occasion.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young and President E.
B. Wells made speeches of welcome, and
the guests of honor spoke at length upon
their travels through the old and new world
from Alpine heights to the orange groves
of California from the plains of Colorado,
to the volcanoes of Honolulu, depicting in
eloquent language the grand and interest-
ing scenes witnessed upon such a journey,
closing with a glowing tribute to the
beautiful Salt Lake valley as seen from the
roof of the hotel Knutsford—the mountain
scenery, snow-capped hills—equal to the
Alps, the charming sunsets, the growing
city with its broad streets, the thriving
business blocks, and more than all the
sweet home life of the people, had made
an impression not soon to be forgotten.
	The chairman of program committee
read the program for Dec. 31st and the
session adjourned to meet at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s Dec. 31st, 1895, at 2 p. m.
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


HUNTINGTON EMERY CO. 
Dear Editor:
	ON Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 28th, the
members of the Suffrage Association
gathered at the Huntington Hall, at 2
o’clock p. m. and spread a sumptuous table
with every good thing that the heart could
desire, turkey and pumpkin-pie included,
and about seventy-five people sat down to
the tables and enjoyed a good dinner; after
which we had some very excellent speeches,
toasts and sentiments from both gentlemen
and ladies. In the evening we had a dance
mingled with songs, recitations and a
dialogue on Wowan Suffrage, in which both
sides were shown and in which the ladies
came out victorious. The association is in
a fair condition, there being enrolled twenty
members; we hold meetings twice a month.
Wishing the Suffrage Association success,
we remain yours truly,
MARIA S. CHRISTENSON, President
C. R. RILEY, Vice-President.
BESSIE JOHNSON, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BALLAD OF LILIES.

“Behold us drooping on our stately stalks,
	Fair flowers of grace in rapturous repose;
Plucked in Bermuda from cool, quiet walks,
	And seeking to thy bosom to disclose
That which the vaunting, vain, voluptuous rose
	Could never to thy senses half convey;
A message that with gentle gladness glows!”
The snow-white, soft, sweet-scented lilies say.

“Each flower the flaming fire of passion mocks,
	And bids thy hot hands, trembling, to unclose,
Nor long to quiver in repeated locks
	And clasps, which but so increase desire, with
		those
That sent us---but our mystic music throws
	About thee, mumuring low; love’s dangerous
		lay,
That o’er thee like a day dream dimly flows—”
	The snow-white, soft, sweet-scented lilies say.
‘‘Still e’er of lingering love each blossom talks,
	And tells he holds thee fairer than the snows.
Untouched by human foot, where no man walks,
	He sends thee joy with every breeze that blows,
And constantly with thee his fond heart goes;
	His thoughts are all for thee at dawn of day.
Until the sinking sun portends its close,”
The snow-white, soft, sweet scented lilies say
			L’envoi.
"Oh lady, heed! where this lovely lily grows
	A heart is waiting---has for many a day
For answer from thee, to the words he knows,"
	The snow-white, soft, sweet scented lilies say.
			GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWNE.


THE BALANCE OF LIFE.

I FEAR no more the coming years
		What they may bring.
	Days will be sunless, night bereft of stars;
Mayhap the brightest blossoms of the spring
	Shall first be bound with winter’s icy bars. 
But still beyond the cloud is always light,
The stars are in the sky all night,
And deepest snows are they which hide the bright 
		Green heart of spring.
Not all of life is dreamed away
		In summer skies.
	Time holds a loss, a loneliness for me,
But Hope is strong, and Faith dare not be weak,
	And Love abides, the greatest of the three.
Enough if sweet to-morrow will repay
The disappointment of to-day;
Light follows dark; sun, rain; seas ebb away
		Again to rise.
And if the rugged road of life
		Doth wind around
	The Mountain side where heavy clouds hang
		low.
And, as I climb the pilgrim staff be changed
	Into a cross, still onward would I go!
The peaks of only highest mountains rise
Above the clouds to bluest skies, 
And round the heaviest cross is hung the prize,
		The brightest crown.


[Column 1] 
AN EVENI	IN THE COUNTRY.

	‘‘Put another log on the grate, Dor’thy,
and draw the stockings back a bit so they
won’t burn. Its cold outside and time for
Santa to begin his work,” said Mrs. Parry,
the mother of five children, one cold
Christmas Eve.
	They lived in a little log cabin, just out-
side a small country town and, though they
had very little money. they were happy as
happy could be for what they had was all
their own. Each loved the others dearly
and all were willing to do anything in their
power to make the others happy.

[Column 2]
	Someone was heard at the door, stamp-
ing their feet as if shaking the snow off.
The door opened and there stood Ben, the
oldest boy, with bundles under each arm,
in each hand and sticking out of every
pocket.
	“How quick you were Ben. You’re a
trump, and did you—Yes—I’ll bet you did;
boys at the frisky age of sixteen always do
forget, and I wanted that pink mull for
Grace’s doll dress.”	“O! Dear! What
shall we do?” Cried Dor’thy, apparently
in great trouble.
	Poor Ben had to stand it all, but when
he laid the bundles down and began to open
them, with the assurance from her mother
that she would find something in her trunk
for the dress, Dorathy recovered herself and
came to join in the sight-seeing. This was
the first Christmas she had been allowed, to
stay up and play Santa Claus, so she was
very anxious to see how everything was
done.
	“Now Ben run out and see if your father
is coming. He went up the mountain
a ways to get a tree. Its about time he
was here. As you come back bring that
basket of apples and some popcorn out of
that sack on the top shelf in the cellar.
We must just fly around here if we get
through in time to be in bed when the
children wake. Dorathy, put the molasses
on and don’t let it burn.”	Thus Mrs.
Parry gave her orders and all were set to
work in good ernest.
	“Isn’t my candy getting white” proudly
ejaculated Dorathy as she pulled it with all
her might. “Yes, and aint I getting a lot
of white popcorn. There, that’s enough
stretching, pull it out thin and make it in-
to canes and hurry up so you can help me
thread the corn and cranberries. I got
some in town. Won’t they look jolly on
the tree though?” said Ben.
	Dorathy moulded her candy, ran out and
put it on the bench to cool and started on
the corn. While Mrs. Parry was very
busy sewing the last button on the new
dress she had made for Jane, and making
the doll dress for Gracie’s baby.
	“How lovely!” cried all at once as Mr.
Parry brought the Christmas tree in. “Yes,
its the finest one I ever saw. Wont my
darlings be happy in the morning when
they see how good Santa has been to them,”
answered he.
	The tree was set in the middle of the
floor and all began trimming it. “I’ll start
at the top and you, Dorathy, at the bottom
to put the corn and cranberries on, don’t
pull it too tight—there that’s fine” said
Ben. “Wont it be scrumpious.”
	“Yes, that’s nice” said their mother.
“You two would make a capital Santa
Claus, you do it so quickly. That’s right
in all your walks of life, what you do, do
well but don’t spend too much time at it.
Don’t forget the curly-cues. They are in
the bottom of the cupboard. Tie them
with thread around on the tree and put lots
of apples on, both red and yellow. They
make it look so nice. I can remember
when I was a little girl how proud I felt
when I found a big red apple in the toe of
my stocking, for they were very scarce
where we lived. You children should be
very thankful for all the blessings you en-
joy.” And so they were for together they
answered, “We are with such a good
mother and father.”
	“Put the canes on. They wont need
any strings and Ben bring me those wal-

[Column 3]
nuts from the closet. I know they will be
good with some of that candy. I picked
out the largest ones from the north tree to
save for Christmas,’’ said the Father.
	Finally the tree was finished, the dolls
dressed and set in the tree, the little cart
that Ben had made for Jimmie, put under
it and they were ready to fill the stockings.
“This is the best time of all. Hand me
that little yellow apple it will just fit in the
toe of Gracie's stocking,” said Dorathy.
	“O! Let’s play a joke on Jim It will be
such fun,” said Ben.
	“All right, what shall it be?” answered
Dor’thy. “Well, I’ll tell you, hand me
that little piece of candy and that roll of
paper and some thread. Now you see
we’ll wrap it up and tie it in a knot and
keep doing that till we get a big bundle;
then he’ll think he’s got something great
and keep thinking he will get the last paper
off and then find its only a piece of candy,”
answered Ben.
	“Ha! Ha! That’s the best joke of the
season, won’t it be fun,” cried Dor’thy.
	The stockings were hung in their places
again, a last look taken at the most lovely
tree and they dispersed for the night. But
Dor’thy did not go to sleep, she waited un-
til she thought all were asleep, then crept
in where the tree was and placed three
bundles on it. The first had written on in
large letters “Mother” and contained two
hemstitched handkerchiefs, all her own
work, the next was a slipper case for
“Father,” and the other a pair of mittens
for “Brother Ben”.
	They were small presents indeed but,
given with so much love, I think they were
appreciated as much as anything could have
been.
	Dor’thy crawled into her cosy bed think-
ing, “Well, I used to enjoy Christmas very
much, thinking of all the good things
Santa Claus would bring me, but these
are the happiest hours I ever spent doing
that which will give happiness to others.”
							E. R. S.


MRS. STANTON'S BIRTHDAY IN
ST. GEORGE.
	PURSUANT to the request of Miss
Anthony that all Suffrage Associations ob-
serve the eightieth birthday of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton in some appropriate manner,
the Washington Co. Woman's Suffrage
Association resolved to add their mite to-
ward the general move in that direction.
	Committees were appointed, and a gener-
al invitation issued to all the people in the
vicinity above the age of seventeen years.
Clark's Hall was secured and tastefully dec-
orated with draperies, pictures, evergreens,
and chrysanthemums. At the head of the
hall, a large print of Mrs. Stanton, framed
in chrysanthemums, attracted universal at-
tention.
	President Lavinia Woolley opened the
evening's entertainment with a short speech
of welcome and greeting to the immense
throng of people who had gathered by 8 p. m.
	Mrs Jennie Hardy read an original and
very complete sketch of Mrs. Stanton's life
up to the present time. A fine program of
character and costume songs, suffrage
songs, recitations, etc. interspersed with
dancing, followed. This was kept up until
a late hour, when all dispersed feeling that
they had enjoyed a feast of good things:
and feeling better acquainted with the ven-
erable lady whose name has become a
national by-word, than ever before. CACTUS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,--Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATING STATEHOOD.

	As the time draws near for President
Cleveland to sign the Constitution for Utah
and issue the Proclamation for Statehood,
the manner in which the people are to
publicly celebrate the auspicious event be-
comes a popular and serious question.
That all parties will unite in the demonstra-
tion is a foregone conclusion. There could
be no other satisfactory manifestation of the
appreciation of such a grand and glorious
event. And one of the chief pleasures will
assuredly be the equality that it will bring
to all the citizens of the new state. No
longer can Wyoming and Colorado boast of
their superiority in this respect, though they
rank first and second, but Utah will bring
the third equality star to complete the trio.
Already some Suffrage Associations in other
states are planning to celebrate the placing
of the third star (for Utah) on the woman's
flag. We count it a good omen that we
are the third equal suffrage state, and also
that the star placed on the national flag for
Utah will be the forty-fifth star and the
coincidence that it is just forty-five years
from the date of the forming of the Ter-
ritory is decidedly favorable.
	Women will, of course, share equally in
the honors of the occasion as they are to
have equal part in all that pertains to the
interests and welfare of the new common-
wealth. Utah has every reason to be proud
of her daughters, as well as her sons, and
in all that makes the world beautiful and
delightful as a dwelling place for man, wo-
man has part and a very large part too, in
the work of beautifying and making it
desirable. In the near future women will
have much to do in bringing about the
changes that will naturally result through
the transition from territorial vassalage to
the freedom of statehood.
	The Governor, Attorney General, the
Legislature, the Judges, all combined will
need women to help them adjust some of
the vexed questions that will arise, because
women are expecting to take part now in
all important matters, even if they were
not eligible beforehand for the positions
which they were certainly competent to
have filled. We do not, however, antici-
pate any friction in these matters, the men
will be generous and courteous and women
amiable and moderate in their demands for
recognition. But it is to be hoped they
will also be valiant and firm in maintaining
the right: and they must not expect their
wishes to be an icipated before being made
known. If they get equal political

[Column 2]
privilege for the asking they must be con-
tent. It cannot possibly be expected that
men will take into account this new ele-
ment without being reminded now and then
of its existence.
	As women have not had the privilege of
voting and being voted for in this campaign,
they have had perhaps a better opportunity
to watch the proceedings and take notes,
and if they have learned some wholesome
lessons by standing and waiting, they may
do better service when they are allowed
active participation in the honors and in the
emoluments. It would be very dreadful if
they were to be as greedy for office, and as
unscrupulous in exacting compensation
as some public servants have been of late.
There is no doubt women will be severely
criticised at first, they must make up their
minds to bear it with heroic fortitude for the
sake of the right. And it will take sublime
courage born of a righteous cause to stem
the tide because there are many opponents
still, even though the cause has triumphed
so far as to give a majority of votes in favor.
The sentiment of the country too is fast
changing and it will not belong until equal
suffrage will be the popular sentiment
throughout the union.
	But just now one must deal with these
grave questions as they appear to the masses,
and the people even have need of educating,
and the few will have to undertake the
work, for it is always the few who pave
the way for the great army who claim the
victory, and carry off the honors. Let us
hope that on the occasion of the celebration
of this inaugural the utmost good feeling
will exist in the hearts of all, and citizens
of both sexes and of all classes, combine
their best efforts with untiring earnestness
and devotion, to make the ceremonials im-
posing and impressive to the children,
young and old, of the new free state.

	It is expected that the President of the
United States will sign the Constitution ad-
mitting the new state of Utah into the
Union and issue the proclamation about the
first of January 1896—and that the in-
auguration will take place soon after,
probably on the 6th, of the same month.
It will be a day of days for the people of
the new state, and all political parties will
for the time being and for the future it is
hoped, lay aside partisanship and make it a
jubilee of peace and good will; a time never
to be forgotton, and an auspicious omen for
the welfare and prosperty of the new com-
mon wealth.
	It is anticipated that the inaugural
ceremonies will be observed in the Taber-
nacle, and that spacious building will give
thousands of citizens the opportunity of
witnessing the official inauguration.
	The military display and parade will be
an effective part of the program, the stars
and stripes floating to the breeze, the mar-
tial music, the beating of drums, the firing
of cannon on this great occasion will be a
distinguishing feature of the heralding of
freedom. A beacon fire on Ensign Peak
would add picturesqueness and significance
to the grandeur of the celebration, and could
not fail to make it a distinctive event, her-
alding to the world that in the tops of the
Rocky Mountains, above the once barren
desert, and in sight of the Dead Sea of
America, a State had grown up unique in
geographical topography as well as in his-
toric celebrity, the Queen of the West, in
its unlimited resources of wealth and its

[Column 3]
unbounded prospects for future develop-
ment and growth in all that will lend lustre
and glory to the Republic with which she
will that day be united, the forty-fifth State
represented thereafter by the forty-fifth star
upon the national flag, the emblem of free-
dom and of liberty to all nations.
	It reminds one of the saying of Isaiah the
prophet.
	"Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken;
neither shall thy land any more be termed
Desolate; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-
bah and thy land Beulah; for the Lord de-
lighteth in thee, and thy land shall be
married."


EMMA G. BULL.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	THE sudden news of the demise of Sister
Emma Bull, wife of Elder Joseph Bull of
this city, came like an electric shock to those
who had not heard of her serious illness,
and who had seen her only a few days
before in seemingly usual health. These
warnings should remind us all of the un-
certainty of life, the certainty of death,
and that we should be at all times pre-
pared for the change that comes to all
living.
	There is to us all something solemn, even
sacred in the final departure from this
world of one with whom we have been
associated in our life labors here; and yet
to a Latter-day Saint it really cannot be
so dreadful as to those who have not the
same hopes and promises of a life to come,
that we have who have accepted the Ev-
erlasting Gospel. In many instances when
a saintly man or woman passes away, the
feeling of death is almost obliterated and
a peace so sweet that it is akin to joy
rests upon the habitation of the departed.
	When one is taken from our midst
whose days have been filled with useful-
ness, and whose life has been an example of
faith, patience and courage, like that of Sis-
ter Bull, those friends who remain should
rejoice that all is so well, that one more true
and faithful saint has fought the good fight
and kept the faith, and entered into the rest,
prepared for those who overcome.
	Sister Bull's days were replete with good
works; she will be missed in many places,
in the Salt Lake Temple where she had
officiated ever since it was opened in May,
1893; in the Relief Society of the Seven-
teenth Ward of which she had been a
member for many years, and for ten years
its faithful secretary, and in many public
duties, among the sick and distressed, and
as a missionary to the sisters of the Relief
Society in other localities whenever called
upon to go. There can be no doubt but
she had finished her work here upon earth.
	To her own family she was all that a
wife and mother could be, industrious, en-
ergetic, persevering, amiable, tender and
affectionate. She possessed many noble
traits of character that shine most brightly
in the home. Sister Bull was a woman of
fine presence, and exceptional good taste in
dress, and in the adornments of home; fond
of flowers, artistic in decorating, and in
fine and ornamental needle work, especially
so, her tendencies were all of a refined
nature, and she was tenderly appreciated by
her own family and by many of the Latter-
day Saints, whose acquaintance she had
made here in Utah. She has only left us
for a short time, ere long we shall all follow


whither she has gone, and if we are faithful
unto the end, we shall meet her again
where there is no more pain or sickness or
sorrow, or trials, but where all is joy and
peace forevermore.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VERY pleasant party of ladies was
given by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder at her resi-
dence in this city, on the afternoon of
Thursday, Dec. 5. About twenty five sis-
ters were gathered in her spacious parlors,
which were artistically decorated with vines
and autumn leaves, and after some time
passed in social conversation a delicious
supper was served to the guests, and late in
the evening, the party took the form of a
meeting, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball being
chosen to preside. Most of the sisters re-
sponded to the invitation to speak, and
many were the expressions of good will and
friendship for Sister Alder. Among those
present were Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Julia C. Howe,
Elvira S. Barney, Elizabeth Webb, Emma
Woodruff, Lucy Jane Thurston, Elmina S.
Taylor, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Maria Y.
Dougall, Margaret N. Caine, Annie T.
Taylor, Clara M. Cannon, Maria W. Wilcox
and others. The gathering was a very en-
joyable one, and the sweet interchange of
ideas and sentiments were specially gratify-
ing to all. These social visits help to unite
the sisters in ties that will be lasting in time
and continue throughout eternity.

THE SENATOR FROM UTAH.
	“The Senator From Utah” is a new book
of home production, published at the office
of the Juvenile Instructor in this city. It
is from the pen of the gifted young writer
and poet Miss Josephine Spencer. The
title itself should recommend it to the pub-
lic at the present time. Miss Spencer deals
with the subject in an entirely original man-
ner, and brings it near in scenery and de-
scription. The author seems to see in the
political horizon storms brewing that might
perhaps be averted were wise methods
adopted in the new State. Evidently she
feels strongly upon the vital questions of
labor and capital and sympathizes deeply
with the laboring classes. It is quite a new
departure for a young Utah woman, and
every one who believes in encouraging the
talents of home writers should buy the
book and read it. It contains many beauti-
ful pen pictures, and is realistic in portray-
ing the strong emotions of men and women
under trying circumstances. The contents
are A Senator from Utah, A Municipal
Sensation, Finley Parke’s Problem, Mari-
dcn’s Experiment, Letitia, Mariposa Lilies,
Hester. The book is for sale at all the
bookstores in the city. Price, cloth bind-
ing, $1.00; paper cover, 50 cents.


HELEN KELLER is said to have the sense
of touch so marvellously developed that she
can recognize a person’s emotions by simply
placing her hand upon his or her face, even
although the play of feeling is so subtle
that the ordinary observer would not detect
any change of expression. She can also
detect the presence of any one by the sense
of smell, and she is learning to sing by lay-
ing her fingers on the sides of a singers’
throat and imitating with her own vocal
chords the vocalist’s notes.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.
Emmeline B. Wells
	ONE Christmas eve a story was being
written in a dreamy, old-fashioned parlor,
with quaint furniture of the olden time,
and such queer pictures of ancient dames
hanging on the walls, that were brown with
age, altogether a gloomy place, save for the
bright coal fire in the grate, beside which
sat a woman past middle life, in flannel
wrapper and slippers, with a thoughtful
pensive countenance and a far-off look in
her blue eyes as though she saw into the
depths of something beyond, while she
gazed into the glowing, crimson coals.
	A gentle knock, the door opens softly,
and a tall, slim, younger woman comes
slowly towards the lady by the fire, looking
up she recognizes there is a world outside
her day-dreams, and turns her face to the
timid maid, who inquires if her mistress
will have some tea and toast.
	“Yes, thank you, perhaps its late, I sup-
pose it must be,” “eleven missus and the
lights are all out everywhere except the
street lamps. You’ll catch your death here
if you don't have something warm, let me
me bring the tray in, what a pile you’ve
writ tonight,” glancing at the little table
full of books and manuscript, and noticing
the fresh written sheets scattered about,
“my sakes, tomorrow will be Christmas
and you up till mornin and not a soul here
to wish you ‘Merrie Christmas.”
	“Never mind Polly fetch the toast, and
you go to bed and sleep well; we’ll have a
crowd here tomorrow, never fear.”
	Polly goes muttering to herself, about
“people that’s allers writin, and makin
nothin by it, and never a word for anybody,
and never thinkin of the work that has to
be done by somebody; now there’s Mrs.
Le Fevre, she’s going to give her girls a
day off, and a fine dinner, and every one
on'em will have a new gown, or some finery,
that’s something like when one’s worked
hard all the year; I don’t see what Missus
wants to keep on year after year for, and
never take a rest; she’ll die in her chair
someday, and who’ll be the better, she’s
nothin to leave but old piles of papers, and
letters and books.”
	Nevertheless Polly brought in the tray
and the woman drank the tea, though she
seemed not to know she was eating or drink-
ing; there was the same dreamy look in her
eyes, and she started as the doors shook as
if some one claimed entrance, and the case-
ments rattled and the wind shrieked and
moaned like living creatures in distress.
The Christmas bells rang out at midnight,
she paused a moment in her work (for she
had resumed her pen) and the tears fell
down her pale cheeks like rain; she was
thinking of her loved ones long since laid
away in the quiet grave yard. On and on
she worked, every now and then listening
to the wind to catch its music, when its
wildest notes rang out upon the night air,
and echoed through the empty rooms, every
sound seeming to her sensitive nerves,
strung to the finest tension, like living
voices, full of the sweetness and melody,
that once filled the dear old home where she
had lived O, so many long years. But we
must not linger over these memories; the
story was not finished until the grey morn-
ing was dawning on the Eastern hills.

	In the visions of the night time.
		When the world is fast asleep,
	Troops of pictures loom before us,
		Saddest mem’ries vigils keep.


A SAILOR BOY’S STORY.
	Once upon a time, a very long time ago
too, a great ship was sailing far away over
the sea in the Indian ocean, with all her
sails spread, and the breezes blowing hot,
and the Captain pacing the broad deck of
his handsome vessel, heard a rough sailor
lad swearing as he was calling to a slender
boy far up in the rigging of the ship and
ordering him to draw in sail, and as the boy
tried but could not reach, he swore furiously
at the lad; Captain Dorr, brave but tender
ordered the stalwart sailor sharply to go
himself to the boy’s rescue, as he saw the
danger, and bring the boy safe to deck.
	When this was done the Captain sent the
sailor about his business and interrogated
the lad, after his own fashion, “How in the
name of all the saints came you aboard a
whaler, what’s your name, and where have
you been, hid away that I’ve never seen
you before? You run away from home
didn’t you, well I did the same thing my-
self or I might have been a well to do man
now instead of sailing the high seas on a
whaler, and never able to stand straight
when I go ashore, We’re out for a five
year’s voyage, my boy, and no chance for
you to get home again, unless we meet a
ship going in and I wouldn’t like to trust
you with strangers, no knowing if you’d
ever see land if I did. No, I think I’ll
take care of you, myself, go and call Tim,
Mr. Taft, I mean, my first mate you know,
but you’ve not told me who you are.” The
boy looked up to see if the Captain was in
earnest for the sailors had told him such
dreadful stories to scare him into doing their
bidding. “My name is Frank Easton, and
I did run away.” “Well, never mind that
now, I’ll take care of you, I’ve none of my
own.” The boy soon found the first mate
and the Captain made some inquiries about
the boy, and bade the mate inform the crew
Frank was only to wait upon him. “All
right Captain, I’m very glad, I’ve been
sorry for the boy from the first, he’s had a
hard time so far.”
	Ever since Frank had left his home, en-
ticed away by bad men who had given him
grog (he had never tasted liquor of any
kind before) he had mourned for his mother,
and whenever he was left alone for a few
minutes he would weep as if his very heart
would break. Afterwards when he lay for
weeks with the fever in the hot climate of
the South sea, he talked incessantly to the
Doctor of his home, until sometimes the
good old man would turn away to wipe his
eyes, though he was accustomed to all sorts
of trying scenes. All the long years, while
Frank was aboard the good ship Durango,
he never heard one word from his home.
He did not dare to write, yet he must have
known how terrible it was to his mother,
only boys can never quite realize a mother’s
grief; the Captain took to him wonderfully
and watched him during the fever many a
long night through, charging the Doctor
and the old negro nurse to take the best of
care of him.
	When Frank was better nurse Susie said
one day “you’re getting peert now, you’ll let
your mammy know how you are, as you’ve
talked so much about her all the time; she
must be most crazy. I dreamt of her one
night when I was sittin here all alone, and
you was tossin and moanin, and hot as fire
with fever, and I was so tired my eyes
would’nt stay open nohow, and she come
right in here, and went up to you in that
cot and put her hands, so white and thin,


[Column 1]
on your curly head, and you looked up and
give a great scream, and woke me right up,
and I felt her cold hands touch mine, and
when I ran up to you, what did you say,
but, "O mammy nurse I’ve seen my mother;
and I said, ‘yes honey, she’s been here, I
seen her too,’ and then the fever was on you,
and I called Dr. Van Norton, and he pooh
poohed and said ‘Mammy you had the night-
more,’ but it want no nightmare as sure as
you live, and your mammy was here, and
I knowed her cause when you had the
’lirum and out’n your head you said O,
mammy, with her soft hands and long
silken curls, and pretty dresses. Bress you
I heard the silk gown rustling, I knows
what I’se talkin ’bout.” Frank wondered
at Mammy, but couldn’t quite understand,
he didn’t remember the dream, though he
had sometimes woke with the feeling that
his mother was close by, and looking up
always saw nurse Susie, black and fat,
so different, from his pale, sweet-faced
mother, but she called him honey, and
tended him carefully and was patient and
kind. He wished sometimes to be left,
perhaps his mother would come, but yet he
knew she couldn’t. One day he asked
Mammy if she knew how to pray, there
was a terrible storm and the ship’s crew
made such a noise over head and Mammy
was rocking herself to and fro, making him
feel so queer and scared, “bress your soul
honey, I know how to pray, but I don't do
it now, ’cause I don’t care to live, I’se a
slave, I haint nothin to pray for, now maybe
this ere storm’ll take us all and swaller us
up in the bottom o’the sea, I dun care.”
	“But mammy you’ll be all right when
the ship goes in, wont you? You’ll be free
then.” “A lot you knows, course I wont,
silly chile, I’ll be jest the same.”
	“If you come home with me I’ll take care
of you, mammy, my mother’ll keep you,”
“but she can’t, heap you knows chile, you
don’t know ’bout niggers up there in
the North does ye?” “I guess not Mam-
my by what you say.” “Well chile I
guess I’se pretty happy as long as Massa
Cap’n lives, but when he dies old mammy
want to go too, I’se took care o’him and
toted him roun when he was a leetle baby,
and when all the nigga’s done sole out, he 
buy me in for a hundred dollars, and bring
me on ship we’him.”
	Just then the ship gave a great lurch and
Frank fainted, and old mammy roared out
that he was dead, but no one came, all were
too busy to hear anything except the roar 
of the terrific storm; but he revived again
and fell off to sleep dreaming of his mother,
and the home folks and the school, and the
boys and girls he used to know. He al-
ways told nurse his dreams, and when he
was well enough he read to her out of the
Captain’s books. Once after a severe
storm, the Captain came down into the
cabin and told Frank the ship was going in-
to port for repairs, and he would send a let-
ter home for him, and let his parents know
he was safe, and when he returned to
America he would bring him safe back to
them. Frank consented and the letter was
written, it was very brief but Frank asked
the Captain to tell his mother that he had
often dreamed she was with him, while he
was ill. “Tell her about nurse Susie how
good she has been to me.” When the
Captain left the cabin to go on deck mammy
said, “what for you tell your proud mother
’bout me honey, she can’t help me, and ole
massa'll be mad, he’ll think I ve been tell-
in you somethin. And now I’se gwine to

[Column 2]
tell you, tomorrow’s the blessed Lord’s day,
now honey I don’t spose you know what
day ’tis no more, since you’ve been sick,
no more'n I do and I dunno know, but I
heard them sailors sayin as ’twas nigh onto
Christmas, an they swore they’d have some
rum, and so I told massa Cap’n, and he
said, “Susie, they shall all have a fine din-
ner, and plenty of good meat; oxen, rice,
yams, and fruits—for we’re going into the
port of Madagascar, and must lay to for the
ship to be repaired,” “now what you think
chile about Christmas on the island ’mong
them savages, what eats people up.” “But
mammy we shan’t go on shore and we’re
well protected with big guns.”
	“I dun care chile we’se goin to have
Christmas dinner," and sure enough a
sumptuous dinner was given to the ship’s
crew, but Frank only thought of his home,
and the sorrow there, and his heart was
heavy. He never forgot that day at Mada-
gascar, so hot at Christmas time that one
could scarcely breathe, while at home he
knew it was cold, snow and ice.
	The long voyage was over at last and the
great whale ship reached America in due
course of time. Many of the sailors had
died and been cast into the sea; at first
Frank thought he could never look on and
see these warm-hearted sailors wrapped in
the sail cloth let down among the sharks,
but he grew accustomed to these dreadful
things after a while; it was only a burial at
sea that was all.
	The ship lay at anchor near a large city
and the usual bustle and confusion of un-
lading, and of official examinations was
going on, the captain so busy as to forget
Frank, but in the meantime the boy was
hesitating whether he dared to go home at
all. Fear lest anything had happened in
his absence to those he really loved, and
shame for the disgrace and sorrow he had
brought upon them by running away. He
knew not what to do, but he was provided
for; the letter Captain Dorr had sent for
him, had reached its destination and while
he was reflecting what course to take his
father came on board, having waited and
watched anxiously day after day for the
ship’s return.
	No words of mine can describe the scene
between the father and son, when they met
on the deck of the vessel. Both were
changed, the father’s hair was grey with
sorrow and the boy had merged into man-
hood, his voice had changed too, his father
did not recognize in the young man in
sailor costume, his boy Frank, nor did the
boy know in this elderly grey-haired man,
the father whom he had so cruelly left. It
was only upon inquiry among the sailors
that the father found his son.
	Frank could not speak, his utterance was
choked with sobs, the father only said “My
boy where is your Captain?” Frank was
glad of an excuse to turn away and look
for him, and as soon as Captain Dorr came
he asked “Where is the boy’s mother?
	He has talked of her constantly.” There
was no answer for a moment, then a heavy
sigh and Mr. Easton could only whisper,
“she is dead.” Imagine the anguish of
that boy, he was indeed sorely stricken,
even Captain Dorr accustomed as he was to
scenes of suffering and of grief, could
scarcely speak, but tried to comfort Frank
in his rough, sailor fashion. Frank felt he
had been the cause, and he dared not look
his father in the face; he wondered after-
wards, why he had not died, when he
heard the fatal tidings.

[Column 3]
	Finally Frank and his father were ready 
to go ashore, and when leaving the ship,
urged Captain Dorr, who had been such a
faithful friend to come and see them at the
earliest possible moment. He promised to
do so, as soon as all the necessary work
was finished and reported to the ship own-
ers. And sorrowful indeed Frank said
“Good-bye,” feeling he could never again
go aboard any vessel.
	After the first few weeks of sadness and
repentance at home, Frank Easton became
a sort of hero, among his associates, and
the village girls (for his home was in a vil-
lage a few miles out from the great seaport)
were infatuated with his rather foreign
manners; and his tales of the countries he
had seen, lent a sort of glamour that was
facinating to simple country people. He
was invited everywhere, and was the envy
of the other boys of his acquaintance;
jealousy crept in too and he began to feel
unhappy, he had no sister to advise him
and his brothers were busy with their own
affairs, and the temptation to go away from
it all, to go to sea again was too strong to be
resisted, but he determined not to deceive
his father, but to tell him of his plans. 
	Before many days after this idea had
seized upon him, he said to his father, “I
must go to sea once more father, the desire
to be on the ocean is too strong upon me to
be overcome. I have looked at the matter
on all sides. I seem out of place here; my
aunt Hetty does not care to have me at
home; she looks upon me as an interloper.
You are occupied with your business and
do not need me, and my brothers will be
married before long from all appearances.
If I guess right Aunt Hetty intends to make
her future home with you, and I shall be in
the way. I love the sea, but I want to go
with your permission this time.”
	My son you must not feel you are not
welcome in your father’s house. I have
never been able to tell you of your mother’s
suffering on your account; it is too sorrow-
ful a tale, would I could forget it; but
wherever you go remember her love and
devotion, and never break another heart as
you did hers.” Frank was completely
overcome and left the room to weep alone;
but in a later conversation he said to his
father: “I feel I can be a better and truer
man on the water than to remain here; I’ll
try never to disgrace the name I bear, and
my thoughts on the solemn night watch,
with the stars overhead, and the wild waves
all around me, shall be of my mother whom
I loved more than I can tell you, though
she knew it not.”
	O it is ever thus, those we love most
never know the depth of our affection, it is
only to the winds and waves we dare to
utter it.
	And so it was settled that Frank should
go on board a merchant vessel this time to
the Mediterranean sea and cruise among the
islands. The girls were disappointed when
they learned of his intentions, and he was
showered with souvenirs of love and con-
stancy. He was mate on the vessel, and
quite efficient, for Captain Dorr in visiting
him, had given him letters that were a pass-
port to favor of his competency. He was
away nearly two years, and enjoyed the
voyage very much this time, but wanted to
see his father, aud also some of the young
women who had been so profuse in senti-
ment when he bade them fare well on going
away.
	Immediately upon going on shore he met
with one of his old friends from the village,


[Column 1]
and they went together to have supper.
Harry Colton had much to tell him of what
had transpired during his absence, and
wound up with asking him to go to a meet-
ing he was to attend that evening. “O is
it the sailor’s prayer meeting,” said Frank,
"I was thinking to go as soon as I could
find one after coming into harbor, we had a
kind of religious Master on board ship
and I partly promised him to find a prayer
meeting in the city, instead of going off on
a spree as sailors do generaly as soon as
they touch land.”
	"No. it is not a sailor’s prayer meeting,”
Harry replied, "but it is a meeting where
there is praying and preaching, and won-
derful singing, and I believe it is real Bible
doctrine they preach, for they take the
Scriptures literal and you don’t have to be
a parson to understand them. Will you
go, you’ll not go home before tomorrow?”
	“Yes, I'll go,” said Frank, “to please
you, and out of curiosity, it will be some-
thing new, at least from what you say.
And I’m fond of variety, and of novelties.
I don’t think I could ever settle down to a
humdrum life now, after my varied expe-
riences.”
	Frank nor Harry little knew what would
be the result of that evening’s meeting.
They were both convinced of the truth of
the Gospel preached by the two mission-
aries, and the consequence was the Elders
were invited to the village of N.—and
the two young men became converts to the 
faith of the Latter-day Saints. But all was
not peace at home for Frank. He had in-
vited those Elders to his father’s house.
This time he was not returning as a prodi-
gal, but with a feeling of independence and
assured in his own mind that any friends
of his would be welcome. Harry also ac-
companied him, and the welcome was a 
cordial one until in course of conversation
it came out that these men were “Mormon”
Elders, and then the stepmother, (Aunt
Hettie,) was furious; she would not allow
these followers of a false prophet to sleep
under her roof. Mr. Easton was greatly
embarrassed, but had not the courage to
decide against his wife, and Frank, Harry
and the young men took an abrupt leave of
the home.
	Frank had money, and he succeeded in
getting a hall for a meeting, and as soon as
the rumor spread through the town that
Frank had returned from his voyage at sea,
it was easy to get an audience Persecu-
tion, however, began, first of all through
Mrs. Easton’s inhospitable behavior. and
Frank soon after left the village, though
half the girls were more or less in love with
him. He was accompanied by Harry Col-
ton, and together they obtained a position
some distance away among strangers. But
they found in the new locality whither they
went a branch of the same church, and
united with it, and soon became acquainted.
Here Frank fell in love for the first time in
his life, and after some time he married
Gratia Beamen, a fine young woman, who
had also been converted to the same faith a
few months previous to his coming to S.—
and about a year after they gathered to
Nauvoo. Here they met the usual trials,
but remained firm. Frank often had the
desire when things went wrong to leave all
and go to sea again, and would say to his
wife: “You know you can go home any-
time to your mother, who was so opposed
to your coming West, and I’ll make a little
money and come back to the Church, its

[Column 2]
only that I can’t bear to see you go without
what you’ve always had, and I can’t earn
enough here to keep the wolf from the
door.” But Gratia strong and determined
would reply: “No, Frank, we’ve given up
all for our religion, let us stand by that.”
And so they did, through poverty, through
sickness, and all sorts of hardships, coming
out from Nauvoo half provided, and living
in Winter Quarters, where the lack of veg-
etables and comfortable food caused sick-
ness and death, but they were true and
faithful through it all.
	When the Pioneers were called to go and
find a resting place for the Saints, Frank
—was one of the number, and his wife
followed with that first famous company of
1847. Here they endured much the first
few years. Some day the writer may tell
you more of this grand character, but now
the sailor boy’s story is already too long.
Because of poverty, and perhaps too, on ac-
count of the roving spirit of his boyhood,
he tried his luck in the gold mines of Cali-
fornia, shortly after they were opened, arid
brought home some gold and many curiosi-
ties.
	At different periods afterwards he went
seeking his fortune in new fields of enter-
prise; but always among the Saints in some
new locality where such men are use-
ful in colonizing, and though he never
succeeded in obtaining wealth, yet he
remained true to the faith he had em-
braced with so much zeal, and which
controlled in him this strong passion for
roving about the world; proving what a
power the Gospel is in keeping men in the
line of duty, if they will yield to its influ-
ence. He would have died many years be-
fore he did if he had followed the sea.
	Harry Colton, his friend, commenced
as firm as Frank, but fell by the wayside.
The wife was a strength and help to him in
his church duties, and their children are the
heirs of noble ancestors, and in the future
they will have a great work to do, in help
ing to redeem them, for both father and
mother have long since passed away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL CON-
VENTION OF THE N. A. W. S. A.
	ALL friends of justice and equal rights
are earnestly invited to assemble in the
Twenty-eighth Annual Convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, in the Church of our Father,
Washington, D. C., January 23 to 28,
1896.
	‘‘The present day is bristling with an
energy which has for its aim the elevation
of our race in mental and moral directions,
in every department, indeed, of human life.
	“Living under the law, helped or hin-
dered by its enactment, women are, by
every principle of natural justice, as well as
by the nature of our institutions, as fully
entitled as men to vote and to be eligible to
office.
	As the president of Harvard University
says: “The exercise of suffrage stimulates
all citizens to reflect on problems outside
the narrow circle of their private interests
and occupations. *   *   * The duties of
republican citizenship, rightly discharged,
constitute in themselves a prolonged educa-
tion.  *  *  *  The bulwarks of the com-
mon wealth will prove all the stronger and
more lasting, because women, as well, as
men, can work on them and help to trans-

[Column 2] 
mit them, ever broader and firmer, from
generation to generation.”
	We rejoice in the immense gains made
in this and other countries since our last
Convention; Utah completing a trinity of
true republics at the summit of the Rockies;
South Australia fully enfranchising the
woman of its vast territory.
	We hail with joy the magnificent growth
of public sentiment resulting in the sub-
mission of a Woman Suffrage Amendment
to the Constitutions of New York, Oregon,
Idaho, Nevada and California, by their re-
spective State Legislatures; the twenty-six
votes for women’s full enfranchisement in
the recent Constitutional Convention of
South Carolina; the result of the vote on
the sham Referendum in Massachusetts,
showing that one out of every three men,
and nineteen out of of every twenty women
of that conservative commonwealth, who
expressed at the ballot box their opinions
on our question, were in favor of Equal
Suffrage—a startling revelation to the Re-
monstrants throughout the entire nation.
	We point with pride to the splendid re-
suits of the work of our Association in
organizing State Societies in Idaho, Mon-
tana, North Dakota, Nevada, Arizona,
Oklahoma, New Mexico, West Virginia
and Delaware, so that when we assemble
in Washington at our Annual Convention,
for the first time in our history the Associa-
tion will be composed of organizations in
every state and territory except Alaska,
linked together in one great national body.
	This call is addressed to all those who de-
sire the physical, intellectual and moral im-
provement of mankind.
	If our Convention shall promote, in any
degree, freedom of thought and action
among women; if it shall incite them to
higher aspirations; if it shall advance by a
few steps just legislation and a wise public
sentiment, if it shall hasten the recognition
of the justice of woman’s claim to equal po-
litical rights with men, it will not have
been in vain.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor, Sec. 
	Headquarters: 1341 Arch Street Phila-
delphia, Pa.


R. S. REPORT.

ST. CHARLES, IDAHO,
DEC. 24th, 1895.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE Relief Society conference of Bear
Lake Stake was held in Paris, Second
Ward, Sunday Nov. 24th, 1895.
	President Julia S. Lindsay presiding.
At 10 a. m. after the usual devotional ex-
ercises. Roll called and minutes read.
President Julia Lindsay addressed the
saints a short time, testifying to the bless-
ings that attend those sisters who faithfully
perform their public duties.
	The verbal reports were given, showing
the Relief Society throughout the stake to
be in a prosperous condition. Counselor
L. M. Hart was the next speaker. She ex-
horted the sisters to each one obtain a tes-
timony of the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged. Warned all against fault-
finding which she feared growing among
us.
	President William Budge spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters. Advised the presi-
dents to adopt some plan to encourage a
better attendance at the Relief Society


meetings. We should live so that we will
not lose God’s spirit for no person is happy
without it.”
	Prayed for the blessings of God to be
with the saints. Hymn “Lord dismiss us.”
Closing prayer by Bishop Price.
	At 2 p. m. meeting opened by Counselor
Elizabeth Collings. Singing, “My God
the spring of all my joys.” Prayer by
President William L. Rich.
	After the second hymn the sacrament was
administered, while the bread and water
was being dispensed the choir sang, “Ye
children of our God.”
	President Lindsday, Counselor Collins
and Sister M. Bagley instructed the sisters
to be frugal, to make the best use of the
means they have. Testified to the bless-
ings received from God, and exhorted the
sisters to faithfulness that they may receive
the great reward that is in store for them.
Elder Emil Maeser admonished parents to
teach their children the principles of the
gospel and see that they mingle in good
society. “While we dwell upon the earth
is the time for us to work out our salvation
if we allow the time to pass unimproved it
will be lost forever. The minutes were
read and approved. Choir sang, after which
conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction by Elder J. N. Stucki.
			NANCY H. ALLRED, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
PERNECY F. ALLEN WILLIAMS.
	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the 12th Ward Relief Society, to
the memory of our beloved Sister Pernecy F.
Williams who departed this life Nov. 23rd 1895, at
Logan, Utah, where she had gone to comfort her
two daughters in sickness by her presence.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in his wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
Sister Pernecy F. Williams.
	Be it resolved, that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of Him, “Who doeth all
things well,” we do recognize in her death, the
severe loss of a faithful, energetic and efficient
teacher, assistant treasurer and trustee, in our
society. A true friend to the needy, a comforter
in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife, and
mother, and a true Latter-day Saint, we also
recognize in her faithful labors and devotion to
the cause of Zion an example worthy of emula-
tion of each member of our society.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her bereaved husband, Brother T. V. Williams,
her children and friends in the loss of a faithful
wife, loving mother and sincere friend.
	Also that these resolutions be placed upon the
records of the Twelth Ward Relief Society and be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that
a copy be sent to the family of our departed
sister.
				JULIA A. DRUCE, President.
			HANNAH C. BROOKS, Secretary.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of Suffrage meeting held Dec.
17th, 1895, in the Fourteenth Ward hall,
President Groesbeck in the chair Song,
"O Come, Come Away." Prayer by
Elizabeth Price. Song, "Hold the Fort."
Minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved. President Groesbeck read the
Constitution of the W. S. A. of Utah.
	Elizabeth Price spoke of women being
backward in going to the primaries and do-
ing their duty as suffragists, in spite of all
obstacles.
	Margaret A. Caine said now is the time
to work diligently, and encourage our citi-
zens, and teach them to understand their
rights that they may vote for good men to
fill offices and enforce the laws. Also spoke


in regard to membership dues and the
standing they give in regard to the W. S.
A. Convention in Washington.
	Elizabeth McFarlane made some very in-
structive and encouraging remarks, after
which Dr. E. B. Ferguson read a card in
reply to a telegram sent by the W. S. A. of
Utah to Mrs. Stanton on the anniversary of
her 80th birthday.
	Moved hat the list of names of members
be forwarded immediately and be sent with
the State dues to the National treasury.
	Janitor’s bill presented and ordered paid.
Executive committee instructed to prepare
a program for the next meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
			CARRIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
[Continued.]
	I am not merely speaking for my-
self, but all the women speakers in Colorado
I think were equally fortunate. I went to
one place in Colorado and when I met the
lady who entertained me she looked rather
surprised. I stayed three days, and she did
everything in the world to make it pleasant
for me and just before I went away she
said: “I am a very honest woman and I 
was very sorry when I heard you were
coming and I am very glad that you came,
but when the telegram came that you were
coming I was not very glad. I took it to 
my next door neighbor and I said, ‘Look at
that. There is a political woman coming
here. She is six feet tall and weighs about 
250 pounds and she has a voice that you can
hear a mile.’ She said, “You came in
looking so tired and so slight that I wanted
to take you up in my arms and put you to
bed.” So you see they wanted us to do all
sorts of extraordinary things. Once in a
while you have a word you would like to 
express that is extraordinary strong I re-
member once in a convention a man became
rather excited and he started up and doubled
up his fist and said, “O, if there were no 
women here I would give $5,000,00.’ So
you see it was good for women to be there
as they better the morals and introduce
politeness into politics. Man brings into
politics the binding force that prevents the 
political universe from going off in a 
tangent; woman is the centrifugal force,
the force that binds and keeps the earth
from going off into space; but if we had the 
complete control of politics we probably
would have made just as much of a muddle
of it as the men have made of it. But I
think I see the dawning of a most beauti-
ful day, a day of truth and love and loyalty.
	Already the movement has formed for re-
form and is vastly being exerted by the wo-
men. The women are now organizing in
Denver regardless of political faith. We
do not recognize insurmountable obstacles;
if the obstacles are there they must be
walked around, climbed over or swept out
of the way. There is no such thing as an 
insurmountable object to a woman who
knows she is right, and municipal mis-
management is going to be prevented in the 
City of Denver because we women are go-
ing to roll away the strong party bias which
has no place whatever in the City affairs
and we are going to stand together Repub-
licans, Democrats and Populists and de-
clare in State affairs that politics and ethics
shall be one. We have begun the work
already and I hope before six months have

[Column 2]
gone by that the world will see that the
municipal politics of a city where women
have the ballot, means something a great
deal better than municipal politics can pos-
sibly mean where women have not the bal-
lot. We are educated to believe the more
we use the ballot that it is a supreme
responsibility and a very precious privilege
and we like it better every day, and yet to
use that ballot right means that we must 
study hard, and no education has been of
greater value to us than the sober sense of
responsibility which comes from the
knowledge that the opinions which we ut-
ter can be counted and we weigh those 
opinions well and you know there is no
educator in the world so great as responsi-
bility, I think the reason women have been
thought to be ambitious is just because they
do know responsibility. They could say
what they pleased and it didn’t count they
could keep still if they liked and it didn’t
count. Everything we say in Colorado
counts and I think as time goes on our
worth will be recognized more and more.
	Your Mr. Roberts said in reference to some
argument against suffrage that he would
expect that from a Republican but he would
not have expected it from a Democrat.
Well, I would not expect a remark against
suffrage from a Republican because I think
a good Republican is a good American 
citizen and no good American citizen can
conscientiously oppose Woman Suffrage and
be faithful to the spirit of his constitution.
(Applause.) I would like to say to him as
he said of some other Democrat: “Oh, fie
upon a Democrat for using such an argu-
ment’’ because every single implication of
the supremely democratic idea of absolute
equality of rights and absolute freedom for
the individual is contradicted when a man
or woman shall say that women too, should
not have equal rights. I have never seen
Mr. Roberts, I wish I could see him be-
cause I am just as loyal a Democrat as he
is and I say—Oh fie upon any Democrat
who will put such an interpretation upon
the Declaration of Independence! Fie up-
on the American be he Democrat, Republi-
can or Populist who dare say that equal
suffrage is not the idea of this broad earth.
(Applause.) We think we have been led
to understand the difference between liberty
and freedom. A friend of mine a distin-
guished writer says there is a great differ-
ence between liberty and freedom and I 
think he is right in his distinction. He
said that liberty has restrictions, it is limited, 
but that freedom is something more, it is
affirmative, it is the power to do right, but
such power is not in the hands of a great
many of our countrymen today. And how
much more glorious it will be when we can
have the power to do right.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
