VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, AND 15, 1895.		No.7–8.


CONTENTS:
	Women May Not Vote. Emery Co. W. S. A.—
Josie E. Childs. Mrs. May Wright Sewall. R. S.
Reports—Cassia And San Juan Stakes. Ladies'
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Vilate R. Young. Re-
lief Society Conference. Hygienic Cookery—J.
S. W. Conference N. A. W. S. A. In Rural
England—A Story.
	EDITORIAL:—Work And Wait. Editorial
Note.
	POETRY:—In September—Hattie Whitney
A Love Song To A. Wife—Quiver. Not on The
Lintel—E. T. Reflections And Memories—Lydia
D. Alder.


IN SEPTEMBER.
Roselit gold, maple’s dower,
	Glorifies the smoky view
Like a mammoth autumn flower
	Halo’d in the distant blue,
On a sunny April shower
	With a rainbow gleaming through.

Goldenrod encampments kindle;
	Flame of fleecy amber spreads
Into heaps that drift and dwindle,
	Dropping floss, like curling shreds 
Blowing from a slender spindle
	Wound about with yellow threads. 
 
In the mellow wind and weather 
	(Golden silk and satin husk,)
Knights with spur and spear and feather,
	Waving scents of milk and musk,
Shake their plumed heads together
	In a misty golden dusk.

Orange waves and cloud wrought dimples
	All the western heaven’s fret,
Blooms the sun, in vapor wimples
	And in foamy billows set,
As when in a river’s rimples
	Floats a golden violet.
						HATTIE WHITNEY.
								SELECTED.


A LOVE SONG TO A WIFE.
	We have been lovers for forty years;
O, dear cheeks, faded and worn with tears,
What an eloquent story of love ye tell!
Your roses are dead, yet I love ye well!

O, pale brow, shrined in soft, silvery hair;
Crowned with life’s sorrow and lined with care,
Let me read by the light of the stars above
Those dear, dear, records of faithful love.

Ah, fond, fond eyes of my own true wife!
Ye have shone so clear through my checkered
	life!
Ye have shed such joy on its thorny way
That I cannot think ye are dim to-day.

Worn little hands that have toiled so long,
Patient and loving, and brave and strong;
Ye will never tire, ye will never rest,
Until you are crossed on my darling’s breast,

O, warm heart, throbbing so close to mine!
Time only strengthens such love as thine,
And proves that the holiest love doth last
When summer and beauty and youth are past.
							Quiver.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN MAY NOT VOTE.
	THE Supreme court room was well filled
again Saturday Aug. 31st, as the anticipa-
tion that the qualification of women to vote
in November next would be passed upon
had deepened almost to a feeling of cer-
tainty. At 2:20 the Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices Bartch and King entered
the room.

	In the case of Sarah E. Anderson vs
Charles Tyree, involving the question of
women voting, Chief Justice Merritt said
that Judge Bartch and himself had arrived
at a conclusion, Judge King dissenting on
the subject. Mrs. Anderson had asked
that her name be placed on the registration
list. Judge Merritt said the Edmunds-
Tucker law had not been repealed, and
would remain effective till statehood was
achieved. Section 2 of the enabling act
had extended the franchise among males,
but had not referred to females. To allow
females to vote would be in conflict with
the act, and was forbidden. There had
been stress laid on the fourth section of the
enabling act, where the “qualified voters
of the proposed State” were authorized to
vote. In his view these qualified voters
were those qualified under existing laws
and the enabling act. There had been no
intention on the part of the Constitutional
Convention to allow women to vote at the
first election, in November next, but to al-
low them to vote thereafter. This was
clearly shown in section II of the schedule
of the Constitution. Judge Merritt said
he would file a written opinion, reversing
the judgment of the lower court.
	Judge King said he was unable to con-
sent to any of the views of the occasion.
He regarded them as utterly repugnant to
the provisions of the enabling act and of
the Constitution. He regarded that the
Edmunds-Tucker act was not a prohibition
of women voting on the Constitution; he
considered the view of the majority of the
court as absolutely wrong. He did not be-
lieve the purpose of the Edmunds-Tucker
act was to have any effect upon voters for
State officers or on the Constitution. If he
had been, it was superceded by the enabling
act. That act had permitted a disfranchised
class to vote for delegates to the Conven-
tion and on the Constitution, being an en-
largement of the franchise. At the elec-
tion for delegates, only males could vote,
but unquestionably Congress delegated to
the Constitutional Convention the power of
prescribing the electorate at the first elec-
tion for State officers and on the Constitu-
tion. That was a power which the people
of the State alone had the right to exercise.
The proposed voters of the State, Judge
King thought, were those who were en-
franchised by the Constitution, including
males and females. It was the province of
the Constitution-makers to define the elec-
torate, and they had done so, classifying
men and women as citizens. He regarded
as an absurdity the ruling that women
were disfranchised, which ruling outraged
every principle of construction, and was

[Column 2]
wrong. He regarded the provision in sec-
tion II of the schedule in the Constitution
as repugnant to article 4, if it was to be
taken as a restriction. However, he would
not take it as such restriction, but merely
to define that such persons should vote.
To say that the women should be dis-
franchised at this election he regarded as
a wrong and an outrage.
	Judge Bartch said he concurred in the
opinion of the chief justice, and as to the
Edmunds-Tucker act, if it was repealed
for the purpose of the enabling act, it was
repealed for all purposes. He did not be-
lieve the Edmunds-Tucker act was repealed
at all. In this special case, the franchise
was extended, but all the acts remained in
force, and if the Constitution failed, then
the Edmunds-Tucker act remained in
force.—Ex.


EMERY CO. W. S. A

Minutes of the Emery County Conven
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association
held at Orangeville, Sept. 2nd, in the
Social Hall, it being beautifully decorated
under the supervision of Mrs. Rhoda E.
Robertson, President of the Local Organiza-
tion. The two most important features
being a motto composed of yellow flowers
(the suffrage color) bearing the words
“Equal Rights,” and the flag festooned
with bouquets of yellow flowersand the two
lone stars representing the two states that
have given full suffrage to women and in
one corner could be seen the point of
another arising in the horizon of the near
future.
	I must not forget to mention the gentle-
men did honor to the suffrage color the
same as the ladies, by a button-hole bouquet
of the yellow flowers, taking it altogether
the hall and the people resembled an im-
mense flower garden.  President Jane
Petersen in the chair, a short program was
well rendered by the following named per-
sons—Mrs. Mary A. Sorenson; a lecture on
“The Literal Sense” of Woman’s Suffrage
given in that lady’s easy style and wae
warmly applauded by her hearers. The
Hon. William Howard, a member of the
Constitutional Convention, gave a lecture 
on equality of sex, a splendid address.
He thoughtif woman had justice she would
not have to contend for her franchise. He
never could see why the right to vote was
given to some and withheld from others.
He said women were full of mercy and
when mercy was mixed up with justice we
would have a better form of government.
	Miss Millie Larsen gave a recitation
“Shall Women Vote.” The Hon. C. G.
Larsen gave a short address. He felt that
the ladies should vote, but if they proved
themselves as selfish as some men, he hoped
they never would get the vote. Follow-
ing was a recitation by Miss Sabina
Oliplianton “Girls Rights,” which brought
down the house.  President Jane Petersen
then introduced Judge Rhodes of Ephraim,
who gave an able address.
He thought that Woman Suffrage was no


longer a subject of discussion. He never
was exactly able to say why men opposed
Woman’s Suffrage. When it came to the
subject of Political Economy women had
the advantage of men. They were more
observant. He was sure the women of
Colorado had done their state a great ser-
vice, in the study of law. The divorce
cases that had come up before them in
ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the
men were to blame. In women casting
their ballot they should do as they feel and
not vote as their husband’s do, unless they
were convinced it was for the best. He
thought women had intellect, he knew they
had tongues. He thought it was necessary
that one or two ladies be on the school
board. The greatest opponents were the
saloon keepers they did not want women
to vote, they were afraid of her. If we
must have saloons let them be good ones.
The women should look after these saloons
that sold whiskey from the back door on
Sundays. He wished woman success in
her efforts, but he thought the time for
contending for woman’s rights, in Utah,
was past. [He afterwards ascertained
that women could not vote at the coming
election which effected the Judge very
much.] He then urged the women to
exert their energies to the greatest, that
their husbands sons and brothers should
vote for the Constitution. He could now 
see plainly the opposers of Woman Suffrage
would do all they could to defeat the con-
stitution. He had thought there was
nothing more for women to do, now he
could see a great work before them.
Benediction by Andrew Anderson. The
Convention then adjourned for three months.
Josie E. Childs, Cor. Sec.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.

	A LETTER from Mrs, May Wright Sew-
all, Vice-President-at-Large, of the Inter-
national Council of Women, and one of the
Cabinet of the National Council of Women
of the United States, dated Sept. 8, at
Prescott, Arizona, informs us she has been
spending the summer there with her hus-
band, who went south for his health some
time previous; though resting from her
arduous home labors, she has by no means
been idle but sowing good seed in that
locality, and has given some lectures there
and succeeded in organizing the Woman’s
Club of Prescott with thirty charter mem-
bers.
	The local papers have this to say of her
work there.
	“Mrs. May Wright Sewall’s lecture on Saturday
afternoon was quite well attended by ladies from
both Prescott and Whipple. Her subject was the
“Origin and Formation of Women’s Clubs” and
her lecture was very interesting. Mrs. Sewall is
very graceful on the lecture platform and language
proceeds from her as water from a spring, and
she held her audience spell-bound throughout
the lecture. In the matter of clubs, it may be in-
teresting to mention the fact that Mrs. Sewall
has the honor of being one of three ladies, re-
siding out of New York, who is a member of
New York’s celebrated Sorosis club. On Tues-
day afternoon at 3 o’clock she will give another
talk to ladies at K. of P. hall and will assist in the
organization of a club here.
	She has also consented to give a lecture in the
near future on the subject of “Female Suffrage,’’
a subject not entirely new, but which will no
doubt be handled in such a way by her as to
make it interesting to all who will attend.
	Mrs. Sewall is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, having
held that position from March, 1891, to March,
1895, and is at present secretary of foreign re-


lations in the National Council, and Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large of the Internationl Council, of
which Her Excellency, the Countess of Aberdeen,
is President.
	Mrs. Sewall gave her Margaret Fuller
lecture to the ladies in Prescott which
must have been impressive, considering the
subject, and the remarkable presence of the
lecturer, her ease of manner and the at-
tractive power which she has with her
audience.
	Mrs. Sewall expects to speak at the Na-
tional Council Convention in Atlanta in
October on the “Functions of the Cabinet,”
she has also accepted an invitation to speak
at the Educational Congress in Atlanta in
November, her subject is “The Duty of
the School to the Public Morals and Man-
ners.” Mrs. Sewall is quite well known to
a number of Utah women though her con-
nection with suffrage work and as the
presiding officer of the National Council,
and whatever Mrs. Sewall undertakes she
does in an effective and masterful way.
She presides with great dignity, never los-
ing her presence of mind for a single
moment.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

CASSIA STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
at Oakley, Aug. 16, 1895. President
Louisa Haight, presiding, present were her
counselors, Helen E. Tuttle and Ann Wil-
son: also stake president H. D. Haight
and counselors Moroni Pickett and Frank-
lin F. Brim.
	Conference opened by the choir singing,
“Come Oh Thou King of Kings.” Pray-
er by Bishop William T. Harper. Choir
sang “Israel, Israel God is calling.”
Opening remarks by president Louisa
Haight. Minutes were read. Six branches
of the Relief Society were reported by their
presidents; and three not reported; those
sisters who reported made good remarks.
	Counselor Helen E. Tuttle expressed her
good wishes and made encouraging remarks.
	Counselor Ann Wilson made a few re-
marks
	Sister Marintha A. Stoddard said, “We
must practice what we preach, we should
be energetic and have faith. When we at-
tend our meetings and partake of spiritual
food we are more capable to teach our lit-
tle ones.”
	Sister Rosabell A. Brim spoke of the
many duties devolving upon us, and the
labor we had to perform; said if we would
all do our part the labor would be light.
	President H. D. Haight addressed the
conference was pleased to hear the remarks
of the sisters. This is a life of trial and
disappointment. If we have knowledge
superior to others, we ought to be willing
to impart it unto them, and bring them up
to our standard. Let us be affable and
kind and set a good example before all.
This is the Lord’s work and He acknowleges
the different organizations.
	Choir sang, “O’er the Gloomy Hills of
Darkness.” Benediction by Bishop Thom-
as Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
by the choir singing, “Lift up Your Heads
ye Scattered Saints.” Prayer by Brother
Franklin F. Brim. Choir sang, “Softly
Beams the Sacred Dawning.” Statistical
and Financial reports were read. Brother
Moroni Pickett said: “I think it is as es-

[Column 2]
sential for women to acquire wisdom and
knowledge as men; for this work is not a
small work it is magnificent. We should
meet together frequently and the more
meetings we attend the more we want to.
We have congregated here today to hear the
reports of the several branches of the Relief
Society and testimonies and be instructed
by those who may address us. Minutes of
first organization of the Relief Society
were read.
	President Louisa Haight spoke to the
sisters about storing up grain, and gave
good instructions.
	Bishop John L. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of attending Relief Society Con-
ference, said, “There are Latter-day Saints
who are advancing, but are the masses? I
think the majority of the people are neglect-
ful; let us throw off that negligence and
let our light shine. Everything is all right
in Zion.
	Congregation sang,“The Spirit of God,”
etc. Benediction by President H. D.
Haight.
LOUISA HAIGHT, President.
L. ROBBINS, Ass’t Sec.

SAN JUAN.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the San Juan Stake of Zion, held at
Monticello, Aug. 26th, 1895. President
Martha Hammond presiding, present on the
stand, Apostle Brigham Young, Elder
George Reynolds, President F. A. Ham-
mond and counselors. Meeting opened by
the choir singing. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Jens Nielsen, continued with sing-
ing. The minutes of previous Conference
were read and approved. Followed by re-
marks from Stake President of the Relief
Society Martha Hammond; she reported her
labors in visiting around the stake, where
she found the society in all its branches im-
proving which was a source of satisfaction
to her.
	Mancos Society was reported by Secre-
tary Louie White.
	Burnham, by Secretary Abigail Young.
	Monticello, by Counselor Mary A Per-
kins.
	Bluff, by President Kisten Nielsen and
Moab by Sister Mary Taylor all are doing
fairly well.
	Counselor Mary N Jones, M. M. Halls
and Sister Taylor all bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work of God.
	Elder George Reynolds said it was the
first time, he believed, he had had the
privilege of speaking in a Relief Society
Conference and the second time he ever at-
tended one, but did not wish the sisters
to think he was not in sympathy with their
work, added other remarks that were in-
structive to the listeners. President F. A.
Hammond occupied a few minutes in en-
couraging the sisters in their great work, as
did Apostle Brigham Young, he compared
the condition of the Latter-day Saints to-
day, with their condition forty years ago.
	Spoke a short time on the subject, which
was very interesting.
	The general and stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were unanimously sustained.
Conference was adjourned for three months,
Dismissed by the congregation singing the
Doxology. The Benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor William Hall.
MARTHA HAMMOND, Prest.
EVELYN ADAMS, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	5


NOT ON THE LINTEL.
To night my neighbor is weeping,
For the Destroyer in passing o'er
Found there no mark of sacrifice
On the lintel of the door;
So passing thro' the unguarded door
He found a blossom fair
Touched it with his chilling breath—
Shrouding life with the gloom of death
Leaving desolation there.
To-night I might weep with my neighbor
For I have no guarded flower,
Death could easily come and take one
For there's naught to stay his power;
I have not made the needed sacrifice,
The Destroyer in passing o'er
Would find that I, from Him that gave
Have not the merit, the mark to save,
On the lintel of my door.		E.T.


REFLECTIONS AND MEMORIES.
[A Tribute of Love.]
TO MRS. MARY A. FREEZE.
How strange a thing is life!
	How the years come and go,
Bearing us onward forever,
	Now swift and now slow;
Bringing changes—oft sorrow
	On some bright "To Morrow."
Yet the stream bears us swiftly 
	Along the strange way,
Each morn changed to even,
	Each night follows day;
'Till at last we find peace
Where all quarrels cease.

O, Watchman what of the Night?
	Do you keep the bell tolling,
To tell of fierce breakers
	Where wild waves are rolling?
Yet hark! From far o'er the sea
Sweet music is wafting ever to me.

And so the tide flows gently on,
	Now tears, now laughter on the way;
The fair young face soon changed and worn,
	With sorrow set e'er early day;
Sweet faded faces oft we meet,
And silently each other greet.

The journey long must needs have end,
	The mile-stones close and closer grow;
Yet each brings back some memory dear
	Of those we loved so long ago:
Tho' from our lives they've passed away
To dwell in realms of endless day.

O, dream awhile, sweet friend of mine!
	Bid memory all her treasures bring!
May those so loved of old by thee
	Press near, and loud thy praises sing;
For Zion's daughters love thee well,
And high and loud the echoes swell.

When Zion shall with joy be crowned
	With the shining ones may you be found;
May each fond wish you have in life.
	Your full heart know—while joys abound,
The Master smiling on thy face,
A faded look will never trace.

All things are theirs who win the crown,
	All heights all depths, to them are known;
The Savior's love will dry all tears,
	Of those He's chosen for His own;
Dear one, His love is strong and deep,
Whom thus He loves, no more need weep.

Now flowers we bring of fragrance rare,
	And crown thee Queen this happy night;
Glad music swells the perfumed air,
	Thy friends all greet thee with delight,
May white winged Peace, her pinions spread
	And choicest blessings crown thy head.
June, 1895.	LYDIA A. ALDER.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Aug. 10th, 1895. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding. Meeting open-
ed by singing, "O, Say What is Truth.”
Prayer, Counselor E Webb. Continued
by singing, ”O, ye Mountains High.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Counselor Stevenson said this is
the season of the year when most meetings
adjourn. But we can’t afford to lose one
moment of this valuable time. What a
privilege to have remained in the courts on
high, to come forth in this day, when the
Gospel of the Son of God has been restored
in this momentous age; we should never
cease to thank God for these blessings.
Sometimes while passing through trials we
can’t see the light. But if we don’t pass
through tribulations, we couldn't fully ap-
preciate blessings, we are surrounded by
temptations, let us make the best of our
opportunity, be as towers of strength round
our children; live near to the Lord, teach
by example; we should strive to overcome
our weaknesses. One today, another to-
morrow. I wish young mothers would
meet with us. I come to be fed and to gain
strength every time I come to these meet-
ings. We learn many good things from
books, but we learn more by listening to
the experiences of others, those who have
passed through trials, and borne them
patiently; those that can acknowledge the
hand of God in all things we receive
strength by speaking one to another. All
who testify will receive a blessing. Al-
though an invalid for many years I have
been spared to accomplish a good work.
I will never cease to thank my Heavenly
Father for the blessings bestowed upon me.
May God bless us to be as haven among the
Saints. Sisters don’t let the precious time
go to waste, may the Lord bless us.
	A sister whose name was unknown, said,
“I am pleased to be here today, God has
been very good to me, the testimony of the
truth of the Gospel has been the greatest
blessing I have received. Relief Society
sisters are engaged in a grand and glorious
work.” Recited a beautiful poem on Relief
Society work.
	Another sister testified, “I know this is
the work of God, the more we strive to do
the will of the Father the more strength
we will have to overcome temptation, my
greatest desire is to endure and prove faith-
ful. I ask an interest in the prayers of my
sisters.
	Counselor Webb had enjoyed the remarks
of the previous speakers, ‘‘if we had faith
sufficient, we would not feel it a task to
perform our duties. Relief Society work
is a glorious work, in it we become well ac-
quainted with each other, we must be
charitable to each other. I often read the
Sermon on the Mount. There are so many
beautiful things to be learned from that
sermon; we are living in very peculiar
times, there are things to contend with,
never met with before. The enemies of
the Saints are gradually leading our
children away. We should be willing to
make any sacrifice for our children. Let
us be united in laboring for their welfare.
Live so that by kindness and the influence
of the spirit of charity and love, we can
draw them to us. I desire to hear my
sisters speak, let each one say a few words.
	A Sister said, I have a testimony, I want
to receive the blessing pronounced by
hearing and testifying of the goodness of

[Column 2]
God to me. Have received many blessings,
I desire to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things.
	Another said, “I have a testimony to
bear, the Lord blesses me continually, I
know its a good thing to meet together
often. We gain strength by speaking one
to another. I consider these the best meet-
ings I attend, I can’t be thankful enough
for the blessing of the Gospel and want to
do all the good I can, I came here to serve
the Lord. Congregation sang, ‘‘We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Nunn said,‘‘I feel I should neglect
performing my duty, if I keep my seat,
the spirit of the Lord is here. I desire to
speak of the goodness of God, every time I
have an opportunity,” asked the sisters to
pray for an afflicted sister who was in
England, who was very desirous to gather
with the Saints, but being very ill was un-
able to come.
	Sister Julia C. Howe hoped to be im-
pressed with the spirit of the Lord, ‘‘It re-
quires effort to come here this warm weather,
those who come certainly have a testimony;
there is a spirit of peace in the Gospel that
cannot be understood by those not of us,
we enjoy this new birth. We have no de-
sire to honor our enemies, the Gospel
teaches us to do good to all, my family
sometimes say to me, 'Ma you are too re-
ligious,’ we should take our children to fast
meeting, let them pay their tithes and of-
ferings, show them the right way. It will
make an impression that will remain with
them, there are practical duties, I was early
taught charity and truthfulness, these are
principles our children should understand
and cultivate.” ‘‘Redeemer of Israel,”
was sung by the congregation.
	“Sister Alder, “May the spirit of the
Lord improve me. It is those who are
weak that need to be fed. All that is
necessary is to do the will of the Father
and receive the blessings promised, those
who are obedient are the ones worthy of
the blessing, we can’t expect blessings
without sacrifice; good and evil are placed
before us, will we accept the offer of the
world, or be faithful and receive the bless-
ings of the world, or be faithful and re-
cord the blessing of the Father? When we
left our home in the other world, we no
doubt promised the Father we would re-
turn. As long as we are obedient, He can
draw us back to him, we can feel the in-
fluence of those, who live for this world,
the other life may come at any moment,
we can’t wait till we are old to serve the
Lord; if mothers will reason with their
children, we can always lead them. We
must walk in the straight and narrow way,
if we hope to find the home of Father and
Mother in the celestial world; we won’t
be satisfied if we don’t get back; the Father
will not compel us. But will hold out his
hand and lead us back, so should we lead
our children, that all may find the straight
and narrow way, is my prayer.”
	Sister Steel testified she had known for
forty years that this Gospel was true “My
desire is to be faithful, have passed through
trials, but never one that did not bring a
blessing.”
	Several sisters bore testimonies, all were
desirous of doing good and remaining faith-
ful spoke of the good influence present.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks. Thought all had been well repaid
for coming to meeting. Concluded by
singing and benediction.
	VILATE R. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
	cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter 

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER I, AND 15, 1895.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
October 3rd, 1895, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is earn-
estly desired that there should be a repre-
sentation from the Relief Society of every
Stake of Zion and from each society within
the several Stakes. All are cordially in-
vited to attend the conference, and especial-
ly the members of this important organiza-
tion.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


[Column 1]

WORK AND WAIT.

	COULD any one have imagined, a few
years ago, just what is taking place at the
present time here in Utah,especially among
the women of the Territory. History is
being made rapidly, history in which wo-
men form a prominent part. And why
not? Are they not as much concerned in
the welfare of the new state that is to be,as
men are. It concerns their homes, their
“life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.”
And not only theirs but that of their pos-
terity dearer far than one’s own life to the
mother-heart. It behooves woman at this
time to exert all her faculties, to bring out
her best thought, her ripest judgment, her
most earnest endeavor in that which will
make the new commonwealth of Utah the
most perfect government possible.
	Some things to be sure have not come up to
the expectation of women in reference to
immediate equality of suffrage, and yet one
cannot help believing even that is wisely
provided against, for new experiments are
sometimes, in fact often disastrous in gov-
ernments as well as in other things, and
after all it was not anticipated by the most
sanguine that women would vote with men,
but that if voting at all would vote separ-
ately. But surely there can be no com-
plaint as the matter stands now, women are
debarred from voting this coming election,
but it does not hinder them from working
or talking when or where it is possible to
have a voice. They may exert their ut-
most influence for the interest of the state
and especially for the ratification and adop-
tion of the Constitution which has been
framed and has gone out to the people, and
upon which the legal voters will render their

[Column 2]
decision at the November election. It is 
of no use to deplore the situation of the
question of equal suffrage, but go to and 
do all that is possible to secure statehood
and urge every man to vote for it,by reason,
by persuasion, or entreaty. The suffrage
women of Utah expect every man to do his
duty at the polls in November by voting
for statehood, and it is devoutly to be
hoped that such vigilance will be exercised
by women, as well as men, that not a vote
will be lost.
	The eyes of the world are upon Utah in
the present state of affairs, and the greatest
and noblest women are watching and
anxious to know how the tide will turn.
	If Utah comes into the union with equal 
suffrage upon her banner, what rejoicing
there will be among the women who are
laboring early and late unceasingly for the
promotion of the cause, and the freedom
of every woman from political bondage.
	One more free state, one more bright
star in the flag of the Union, and one that
means so much for human rights, the
truest type of that great boon, without
which happiness cannot be complete,
liberty, yea liberty, without the distinction
of sex, race or color.
	Woman herself must not cease her ef-
forts in her own behalf, or in behalf of her
own sex; because it must be apparent to
all, that although women may be intel-
lectually bright, vigorous and active, yet
they lack the training and discipline men
get from association, political and other-
wise, which brings them in contact with
each other, and the public at large. Wo-
men have occupied a much narrower sphere
heretofore, and necessarily their views and
opinions on questions of state, with its re-
lative departments, political economics and j
matters of serious importance will require 
time to mature. And the real method of
arriving at excellence in any of these, will
be by practice. Until women are admitted
to participation in affairs of city,county and
state, they never will utilize the knowledge
of political science they may get by careful
study and investigation. By attending
primary meetings, conventions and such
like public gatherings, they will come by
degrees to comprehend the responsibility
and advantages of the ballot and to ap-
preciate the opportunities it gives where
judiciously exercised to make better con-
ditions for humanity, and especially to
make better protection for dependent wo-
men and children not only individually
but in all public places, and institutions,
whether educational, industrial or reforma-
tory.
	Not that we think the millenium
will have come,when women have equal suf-
rage, but it will be the dawning of a bright-
er period for the whole world of mankind;
already the leaven has begun to work in
Utah and women feel the stirring of new
deas, a desire to look deeper into the science
of government, and to examine the history
of other countries and compare notes.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP has returned from
an extensive lecturing tour in Northern
Utah and Idaho. Having devoted the
past three months in the interest of wo-
man’s advancement communicating thought
which lies at the very foundation of woman’s
education, the perservation of health, the
prevention of disease and the perfecting


of the physical body. The subject matter
of a course of lectures given to large and
appreciative audiences. The doctor has
traveled over three thousand miles and in
the meantime lectured over five hundred
hours. She expects to remain at home
during the winter season but not to hibernate
nor even follow the allurements of the
social whirl but to continue the good work
in following her professional duties, and
teaching a class in the science and art of
obstetrics.


HYGIENIC COOKERY.
	In the art of preparing food in a whole-
some, nutritious manner, a thorough practical
knowledge of this very useful art ought to
form a part of the education of every young
woman, whatever her station in life. No
position in life is more responsible than
that of the person who arranges the bills of
fare and selects the food for the household,
and what higher mission can one conceive
than to intelligently prepare the wherewithal
to make shoulders strong to bear life’s bur-
dens, and heads clear to solve its intricate
problems. What worthier work than to
help the building up of the bodies into pure
temples fit for guests of noble thoughts
and high purposes. Bread has been
proverbially styled “the staff of life.” In
nearly all ancient languages the word bread
signifies all, indicating that the bread of
earlier periods was in truth what it should
be, at the present time, a staff upon which
all the functions of life might with safety
depend. Notwithstanding the important
part bread is designed to play in the economy
of life, it would be hardly possible to men-
tion another article of food which falls so far
below the standard, either through the
manner of its preparation or the material
used. Were the tables of our land supplied
with good nutritious bread there would be
less desire for cake and other indigestible
articles, which under the present system of
cooking are allowed to compensate for the
inferior quality and preparation of more
wholesome food.
	What is termed white flour has a large
part of the nutritive properties of the grain
left out and unless the deficiency is made
up by other food, the use of bread made
from such material will leave the most vital
tissues of the body poorly n[-]urished and tends
to produce innumerable bad results. People
who eat bread made from fine white flour,
naturally crave the food elements which
have been eliminated from the wheat and
are thus led to an excessive consumption of
meat and other stimulating articles of diet.
The superiority of bread made from entire
wheat or unbolted meal has been attested
by many notable examples in history. In
England under the administration of Wm.
Pitt, there was for several years a scarcity
of wheat, so that to make it last longer, a law
was passed by Parliament that the army
should be supplied with bread made from
unbolted flour. It caused much dissatis-
faction among the men, but nevertheless
the health of the army improved so greatly
as to be a subject of surprise. The officers
and physicians publicly declared the soldiers
had never been so robust and healthy. Ac-
cording to analysis, whole wheat bread con-
tains 60 per cent more of the phosphates or
bone-making material than does meat, and
200 per cent more gluten than white bread.
To white flour may be attributed the early
decay of teeth. If children are to have


[Column 1]
good teeth, bone and muscles they must be
fed on food which contains an adequate sup-
ply of nourishment for their structure. To-
day our children are fed largely upon bread,
cakes, piecrust and puddings, made from
the finest white superfine flour, which can
be ground or rolled. A careful analysis of
the wheat shows that immediately beneath
the hull lies the dark portion of the kernel,
which is hard, firm and very difficult to
grind or roll into fine flour and more or less
of it is quite sure to remain in contact with
the bean, and in bolting the rest of it is
mostly separated from the fine flour. The
dark portion thus disposed of contains in
excess the very substances required, to
nourish the teeth, bones, muscles and brain.
Namely, the gluten and phosphates, the
central or white portion of the grain con-
tains an excess of starch, which is easily
pulverized, and by bolting gives the super-
fine white flour. A large proportion of
this white flour is starch, while it is useful
in supplying wheat and fat making ma-
terial when taken in its natural condition as
it exists in the grain it will not supply ani-
mal life for any great length of time, con-
sequently white flour will keep in barrels
for a long time without being disturbed by
insects, where as the unbolted meal will
not keep for any great length of time with-
out becoming unpleasant to the taste.
	It has been demonstrated by experiment,
that animals fed exclusively upon the finest
superfine flour died in a few weeks while
those fed upon unbolted flour thrived. Im-
perfect development of the bones, muscles,
teeth, brain and nerves is the inevitable re-
sult which follow, if children are fed largely
on white flour, cooked in any form, and
deformity, dyspepsia and debility in after
life. It is difficult to imagine the immense
harm to the present and rising generation,
which is being done by the use of white
flour. The Israelites made unleavened bread
of grains pounded on smooth stones, mixed
with pure water and thoroughly kneaded
and baked. Many of the inhabitants of the
earth today eat unleavened bread. The
Scotch and Irish make it from barley and
oats, the Swedes from rye, and the Mexi-
cans from corn. It is also used among the
Americans to a limited extent. It is made
of whole wheat flour and water, well beaten
and baked in hot iron gem pans; it is very
palatable and wholesome. We should in-
troduce bread made from whole wheat flour
into our homes. It must not be allowed to
ferment too much as the gases escape, and
render the loaf sodden, and there will also be
a great loss in nutritive value, as well, as
natural sweetness. It should also be baked
with great care, more time should be al-
lowed than with white bread. Mushes are
also very wholesome, they must be cooked
well, a double boiler is a necessity in their
preparation, from two to five hours should
be allowed them.
	Fruit should compose a large part of our
diet. Grapes, apples, peaches and a great
many of our excellent fruits are more nutri-
tious in their natural condition, they should
be thoroughly matured but not over ripe as
they are liable to ferment and decompose in
the digestive tract. It should be rejected if
slightly decayed as the juices of fruit circu-
late through its tissues in much the same
manner as the blood circulates through ani-
mal tissues, though not so rapidly and freel[--]
The circulation is sufficient however, to
convey to all the parts, the products of de-
composition when only a small portion has

[Column 2]
undergone decay. Fruit should be cooked
by stewing as hard boiling will destroy the
fine flavor, especially of berries. The uten-
sils for cooking should be porcelain lined
or granite ware, if cooked in tin it is liable
to lose much of its fine flavor, there is also
danger of the acids of the fruit acting upon
the metal and forming a poisonous com-
pound. Tin covers should be avoided as
the steam is liable to condense and ruu
down into the kettle and thus discolor the
contents. Much of our fruit can be bottled
fresh and also dried for winter use, sugar
should be used sparingly, perserves and
jellies should not be eaten as their nutritive
properties are gone.
	Condiments such as pepper, mustard, vin-
egar, etc., are very injurious, as they act
directly upon the nervous system not as
nourishment but as stimulants and irritants,
causing for the time being, undue activity
and exhilaration to be followed by corres-
ponding depression. They also cause an
unnatural condition of the functions of the
stomach and the reaction is partial paralysis.
Thus the thin membranes and tissues of the
digestive organs are worn out prematurely
and disease follows. A taste for these ar-
ticles is artificial and can be overcome by a
strong will power on the part of the indul-
ger. Vegetables are also wholesome but
should be cooked properly. They should
be perfectly tender but not overdone; they
should be put into boiling water, if they are
to be boiled and not allowed to boil too hard
or stop boiling before well done. They
like fruit should be well covered.
	Steaming or baking is preferable for most
vegetables, because their fine flavors are
more easily retained and their food value
suffers less diminution; particularly is
this true of our potato. Potatoes if baked,
should be pressed open immediately and
allow the steam to escape. This will pre-
vent their becoming soggy, the oven must
not be too slow as this causes the skin to
become hardened and much of the nutrition
wasted. Vegetables and fruit should not
be partaken of at the same meal by one
with a delicate stomach. Soups made of
vegetables are very nutritious and palatable
especially so of tomatoes. Cream is an ex-
cellent flavoring for soups, as well as for
our grains and fruits. Cream and good
rich milk are wholesome and very nutritious
and much easier of digestion than when
made into butter. Fried things are very
unwholesome and should be avoided by the
most healthful stomachs. We should eat
pure food that our digestive organs may be
in a healthy condition. They will then
give us physical health and our mental
depends upon our physical. We should be
very regular in our habits especially so in
eating. Our stomach should be allowed to
rest between meals and should not be dis-
turbed by ever so little, as digestion is thus
hindered. Food should be well masticated,
our teeth will perform this very important
office if time be given them.
	Stimulants such as tea, coffee, chocolate,
tobacco and strong drink are not good for
man as we learn from the revelation on the
Word of Wisdom, it also says in the same
revelation that flesh is only for the use of
man in excessive hunger.	J. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE Annual Convention of the Utah W.
S. A. will be held in this city, on Monday,
Oct. 7, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Hall.—E. B. WELLS,
President, NELLIE LITTLE, Secretary.


CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
   
CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
			[Continued.]
	Governor West:	Ladies and Gentlemen:
—I am sure it is a matter of congrat-
ulation to you to hear the remarks that
were made by Miss Anthony on the pro-
gress of the cause which you have so near
at heart. I sincerely believe in the near
future the Woman’s Suffrage Union will
prevail all over the United States. The
movement in the past has had a hard and
serious time and it has been up hill work all
the time and obstructions have been in the
way, they were difficult to overcome, but I
believe now all those difficulties have been
overcome and its road will be smooth and
easy. And it is smooth and easy because
of the noble, earnest, sincere, devoted and
self-sacrificing women like Miss Anthony
and her co-workers. Now I have the
pleasure of presenting to you one of the
most earnest and illustrious co-workers
with Miss Anthony in urging this noble
work, The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw. (Ap-
plause).
	REMARKS BY REV. ANNA SHAW.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I only feel very
humble after Miss Anthony has been speak-
ing, for it must seem so grand to say forty-
eight years ago we did so and so. (Laugh-
ter.) It makes one feel so grand, so mag-
nificent. Now I cannot say that I did very
much forty-eight years ago, nor fifty years
ago, but forty-seven years ago I began to
work for suffrage as soon as I began to
breathe, and with the beginning of my
breathing began my energy and my toil in
this direction, I have always rebelled ever
since, I could clinch my little fist as a
baby and when I toddled about as a child,
at the restrictions that were eternally put
about girls and women. And from the
time I can first remember I was called a
Tom-boy and if it was so delightful to be a
Tom-boy, what must it be to be a boy.
(Laughter.) And from the very beginning
it was always thought there was something
the matter with my head, and you cannot
make my father believe that there is not
something the matter with it now. My
father believed that girls ought to be born
with a burning desire to wash dishes; if
not, there was something the matter with
their heads. As I never had the burning
desire to wash dishes but always longed to
chop wood, my father never knew where to
put me, he knew his head was all right
and he didn’t learn to wash dishes he knew
mother’s head was all right but they have
never been able to get me right. I was al-
ways on the wrong side of the fence, I was
always found just where the women were
not expected to be, and when I became a
a young woman I determined to preach the
Gospel. My father said one day, “we all
knew that you would do something, and
you have done it,’’ and so I did it. (Laugh-
ter.)
	After you have struggled with poverty
and social ostracism and discouragement,
and disappointment in the hearts of your
friends and especially your own people, it
is very hard to have them come up and
say when you have succeeded, “If we had not
helped you it would have been a hard time
for you.” 	(Laughter).  It always makes


[Column 1]
one feel so delightful. So the days have
gone by until in recent years I met Miss
Anthony and since that hour I have been
one of Miss Anthony’s co-laborers. So in
the spring when she ordered me to come
West I came, and allow me to say in good
old Methodist language, for I am a Metho-
dist, I consider it an honor to be here. You
know we Methodists when we come out
and cannot say anything else, we say “it is
good to be here,” and I am glad to be here
with these men and women who breathe
this free air, (for it is very light air, it
makes one long to fly), long enough to
have the spirit of freedom in their hearts. I
cannot understand that kind of a man who
believes the Lord took any more especial
interest in him than he does in anybody
else on earth and when a man thinks he has
a divine right to be any more free than a
woman, I think there is something the
matter with his head. (Laughter and ap-
plause).
	In regard to self-government, God gives
woman as well as man freedom of action,
God does not compel woman any more
than he does man, to obey his laws and
do his will. He places before us a just
and right course of conduct in life, he
makes it possible for us. He knows in his
divine law that no human being can be
moral who is not believed to be moral and
that no human being can be immoral who
is not believed to be immoral and that there
is no virtue in morality unless we have his
love. He places before us the road to vir-
tue and the road to vice and if we choose the
road to virtue and well doing then we will
have strong moral character. Now just
why it should enter into the head of man
that woman should not be just as free on
the earth, I cannot understand, unless it is
that man has never been quite satisfied with
woman because the Lord didn’t consult
him when he created us. (Laughter.)
And so they have never been able to quite
adjust us to their taste because the Lord
made us when man was asleep and he never
thought to wake him up to ask his advice
about us. (Laughter.) They have been
trying to remedy the defects the Lord made.
They have set us a going here and they
have made us a great deal worse than the
Lord did in the beginning. Just look at
the kind of dresses we have been wearing
with shoulders humped up higher than our
heads. The Lord never made us that way,
it was a man dressmaker in Paris.
(Laughter.) Out here in the West some
of the men are conscious that the best thing
to do is to let us alone and we will be a
great deal better friends, sisters, wives and
daughters and above all a great deal better
women for I would rather be a woman than
to be any kind of a relation to anybody.
But the difficulty of this all is that we wo-
men have been legislated for as relation to
somebody. We have never been treated as
men, they don’t make laws for men, for
brothers and sons, fathers and husbands,
they make laws for men as men. Now
when they begin to consider woman as an
individual responsible in herself, responsi-
ble to her God, responsible to the State, re-
sponsible to society, responsible to her
home and responsible in her own right and
in her own being Just as soon as we treat
women as individuals just as we treat men,
it will be a great deal better for both
woman and man. You men are
beginning to realize it now. [
am hearing all the time when the women

[Column 2]
vote they will do this, or they will do that
or what will women do with the ballot? I
cannot tell you what all this body of wo-
men will do with the ballot, I could not
tell you what I would do with the ballot,
I would not swear to anybody that I would
use my ballot in any way but when the
time came I would use it, just as you use
yours just exactly, as I believe it would be
none of your business. (Laughter) no
more would it be my business how you
used your ballot. Now we cannot tell how
any individual woman will use her ballot.
We can tell for the aggregate woman exact-
ly as the aggregate man I cannot tell you
how your Governor will vote to-morrow
but I can tell you pretty generally what
the body of your men would vote to-mor-
row. If I knew the financial condition,
the material condition, and the industrial
condition of your Territory I would know
how the individual man would vote and the
aggregate man would vote for the financial,
industrial and material interests. I cannot
tell how any woman would vote, but I
could tell you how the aggregate woman
would vote, the aggregate woman would
vote for the best interests of home, family
and society, for the best interests of moral
character and highest moral development,
and I believe as long as the world stands it
will be the uniform result of the vote of
the bodies of women to look after the
highest interests of the home, while man
will vote in the interests of salt, wood, pig-
iron and other material interests of the
country, I believe women will look after
the higher moral interests of the com-
munity; not because women are so much
wiser than men, but it has been the plan of
society that the work of man should be to
look after the material interests of the family,
and woman after the moral, educational and
physical interests of the family. Now I
claim that the reason men have not succeed-
ed better in the government is because they
have not tried, I think they have done a
great deal in some directions—that is not
because they have not tried, it is because
they have tried and discovered by experience
that which God said in the beginning that
it was not good for man to undertake any-
thing alone (applause.) I don’t want to
be understood as drawing comparisons be-
tween men and women, all I say is that
men are not everybody and that women are
not nobody—men are somebody and women
are somebody too, and two somebody’s
are needed in the home to make a home
and it takes both men and women to make
a state. I don’t care how lovely a spin-
ster’s home may be—even Miss Anthony
delightful and charming as she is, Miss
Anthony’s old maid home is not as delight-
ful a home as Mr. and Mrs. Anthony’s or
Mr. and Mrs. somebody’s old home would
be, not nearly so, although she has a charm-
ing old home. And my home, Miss
Anthony’s niece, who is my secretary and
I, have a delightful home and we fill it full
of people but we allow no male on the
premises except a male grasshopper: but no
male man is allowed there. Now we have
not the highest kind of a home, we have a
jolly good time but it is not ideal. But as
the home is not ideal with only one woman
in it, and think of a home with a man in
it (laughter) a man was never able to make
a home, home is where the woman is, a man
and a woman can make a home but a man
cannot make any kind of a home. You
put him in a house, it is a house, I don’t

[Column 3]
care how beautiful it is, it is only a house
with a man in it. But you can’t put a wo-
man in a house if it has only two rooms
and a cat that is not a home, especially if
the cat is there. It seems so delightful.
But as a house with only a man in it is not
a home, and a house with a woman in it is
only half a home, you cannot get an ideal
home without man and woman, and you
cannot get an ideal state without men and
women.
	President Elliot, of Harvard University,
said “The family is the tap-root of the
State” and President Elliot is opposed to
Woman Suffrage. Like all other men who
are on the wrong side of the question he is
about as inconsistent as a weather vane, I
never saw one that wasn’t. There is not a
man on the other side of the question that
could argue fifteen minutes without deny-
ing every principle of the declaration of
rights in the end, don’t care who he, is he
denies every principle on which his own
right of freedom is based before he gets
through. In regard to President Elliot’s
remark that the ‘‘family is the tap-root of
the state” now you take the tap-root of
anything and cut one-half of the tap-root
from its connection with the thing which
draws its life from it whether it is a tree or
state with only one half of its life con-
nected, why that part of the tree or any-
thing which should derive its vital power
from that part of the tap-root which has
been severed, will decay, will die, and
what will be the result? The whole body
will finally decay because of the defeat in
one-half of the tap-root. There are some
trees it is said near the ruins of old Babylon
one-half of which are green and filled with
life while the other half are dead, and these
are an exact type of the kind of a state
that is severed from connection with the
half of the life of the people, one-half of
the life of the tap-root of the state. So
notwithstanding President Elliot’s beauti-
ful simile that “the family is the tap-root
of the state’’ he wants to cut off one-half of
the tap-root of the state. It can never be
done, it will never be done and you will
never have the highest and best life until
you come in contact with the whole life of
the state by bringing women in.
	I am so glad that the men of Utah have
had the good sense to see it in time. I am
so glad that a majority of the men in your
Constitutional Convention which means a
majority of the men of your state, had the
good sense to recognize the eternal prin-
ciple and law of God that women had rights
and man is only one-half and woman is the
other half. They can never impress upon
state or society anything else than the en-
tire law of nature demands that recognition.
But you men have made a failure of the
government. If we had had control of the
government we probably would have made
quite as many failures and more especially
in regard to silver, gold and the tariff per-
haps than you, but we are about as able to
settle it as you are, you can no more do it
alone than we can do it alone. Miss An-
thony and I knew we were coming out to a
silver country so we just crammed ourselves
with Coins’ Financial School and there is
nothing you can ask us about silver that we
cannot tell you. We know all about it; but
you men have just been doing for the gov-
ernment all along in the past just exactly
what the gold men are trying to do. Do
you remember in that first book of Coins’
Financial School you have a picture of what


[Column 1]
a single basis of money means where he
tries to give you a very good illustration of
what a gold basis means, a man trying to
see with one eye, trying to carve a turkey
with one hand and trying to walk with one
leg. That is the kind of a government
you have. You have been trying to run it
with one eye, one arm, one leg and you
have been making just as much of a failure
as you possibly can. You cannot do it
alone, you have got to have the other half,
you have got to have the other sex to make
a complete whole government and the
whole life in the government which has got
to be and you men haven’t got sense
enough to see that it has got to be. So in
this way we women are beginning to see
that some men have as much sense as some
women. (Laughter.)
	I don’t know as I want to say anything
more to you this morning, I expect to speak
this evening. I was very much amazed
when the Governor introduced me. I just
want to say to you I rejoice with you and
how I hope if there is any man or any wo-
man who does not believe in the justice of
Woman Suffrage, or if they are afraid that
women will do something or won’t do
something that they will put their heads to
soak for a little while and try to get sense
enough to believe human rights, in the hu-
man family, in the world, and the people of
the world. I should want to die if I did
not believe in humanity. I would have
some doubts of a man’s honesty if I could
not trust him. A gentleman, a minister
in Kansas City said to me the other day,
“Why if you women had the ballot it
would have a bad effect on politics, the bad
men would compel their wives to vote their
way or they would beat them.” I replied
“Well, all men are not as mean as you are.
(laughter) You may beat your wife, you
may pummel her.’’ Why he got mad in a
minute—he straightened himself up and
said “Do you think I would do that? I
didn’t mean me.” I replied, “Oh, did’nt
you! Who did you mean?” He said
“The other fellow.” [laughter] Every-
body thinks he can do the right thing, it is
the other fellow. Now remember, the oth-
er fellow is quite as likely to do the right
thing as you are, and the people who trust
humanity are the people who will always do
the right thing. Now I am not at all afraid
of what women will do with the ballot, I
am not afraid of what men will do with the
ballot, I even believe in men voting
[laughter] and I know some of them will
cast a mighty mean vote too, and I think if
he is a mean man with a vote he will be a
meaner man without it. One of the best
things to educate people out of their mean-
ness and one of the best things to make us
women fit comrades and friends to men, to
make us charming and amiable is to give us
something more substantial. We women
have been fed on poetry, we women have
been fed on sentiment, and the world has
been going wrong and the men have been
trying to comfort us by repeating what we
have so often heard, “Don’t you know the
power of the silent influence of women,”
and don’t you know what the prayers of a
mother can do?”.  And you have wondered
why it was that it was only the prayers of a
mother that affected the good of the people.
I do not believe that God would not hear a
father’s prayer just as well as he would a
mother’s and I believe that a good man is
quite as good as a good woman and his in-
fluence goes as far if it is silent, and it goes

[Column 2]
a good deal farther. Then we are the
“power behind the throne." That is
beautiful, it is poetic—we always like kings
and queens even if we are a Republic, but
you can’t make Queen Lillioukalana believe
that it is a great deal better to be the “pow-
er behind the throne” than upon it. We
know that it is a great deal better to get on
the throne than to stand behind it though
that gives you a little power. Then they
say, “The hand that rocks the cradle moves
the world.” We have heard that and one
would suppose the woman rocks the cradle
about 75 or 80 years of her life. Day and
night three score years and ten the little
fellow never gets out and she is eternally
rocking. Now if we could only keep these
little fellows in the cradle but the trouble is
the little fellows won’t stay there, and the
woman may sit and rock the cradle like a
hen trying to hatch out a last year’s brood.
Now that is the kind of poetic nonsense
that has befen dealt out to us. The world’s
work needs all the world’s people to work
in harmony to lift up men and women out
of degradation, to lift them out of sin to
righteousness. The condition of the world
requires the best efforts of the best men
and women combined and there will not be
too much bestness. The work of the
world demands the highest and best inter-
ests of men and women working side by
side together and instead of bringing dis-
cord it will bring contentment; and there
never will be contentment in the homes of
the world, there never will be peace in
society until all the world is free, until each
person is free to judge for himself and her-
self their position in the home, in the
world, and in the state. When that is done
there will be no occasion for contention.
When we cease this eternal contention that
a man shall do this and a woman shall do
that, when both are left free to do exactly
as they can do and what the world wants
them to do, then we can look forward to
greater peace and prosperity. So I am
looking forward with great hopes for the
incoming state though I will not be here
when the state comes in, but when the
news comes over the wire that Utah has
been admitted I will rejoice ith you.
The people will ask me when I go back if
I have been hired by any real estate agent
to boom the state and we can boom it too.
There ill not be as much thanksgiving
and gratitude in the hearts of any two
people under the sun as will be in the
hearts of Elizabeth Cady-Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony when we shall be able
to place upon our flag by the place of the
two stars that are there now a third star,
and over the star to be the name of this
magnificent State of Utah, [applause]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLVII.
	Maitland’s letter telling of Clair Hilliard’s
death in a foreign land, together with Sid-
ney’s departure for England, and the pecu-
liar feelings brought about by the existing
circumstances, had a depressing effect even
upon Mrs. Harrison’s even temperament;
she could not altogether enter into the do-
mestic duties, with the zest and cheerfulness
natural to her, not even in the presence of
the children. Unusual to her former habit
she would take long drives and solitary
walks, and fancied she could thus throw off
the melancholy which seemed to haunt her.
The conversation with her husband con-

[Column 2]
cerning family events at the old place so
dear to her recollection had brought clearly
before her the beautiful scenery of rural
England, with all its delicious settings of
castles, towers, parks and grounds and the
various environments that have such a
strong hold upon the true English character.
She saw these things in a sort of dreamy
haze, as she went about her daily occupa-
tions, and though she strove against it, she
could not quite erase it from her mind’s
eye. The time seemed long while waiting
for letters, and she prayed more fervently
than ever before, that all might be well,
that the children of her beloved cousin Anna
might come to her, and the posterity of her
uncle, might yet be a blessing upon
the earth. Her prayer was answered
by a dream, which gave her gr at comfort
as regarded Anna's children, even though
she realized she had yet to undergo her
greatest trial, and to stand as it were alone.
Strange that one individual should be
called to pass through the fiery furnace of
affliction unhelped as it were, except by the
unseen, while others reared under the same
roof seldom or never know what such or-
deals are. Yet it is these severe afflictions
that rend the human soul, that teach the
deepest lessons, that strengthen the highest
attributes, and lead upward to the divinest
attainments possible to humanity.
	Had Jane Conway known when leaving
her mother’s grave to visit her uncle at
Hilliard castle, all it would involve, she
would not have had the courage equal to
such efforts, but coming one by one these
trials only helped to develop the possibili-
ities of her character, and she rose from each
one, better prepared to undergo the next,
though it should be still darker and heavier.
Her life with Robert Harrison might have
been almost a dream of happiness, but for
others in whom she took such a deep inter-
est, as to throw dark shadows across the
sunshine, and then the war had taken him
from her, and she knew not what the result
might be, but she made the sacrifice nobly
as became the grand women of those old
days, and felt the cause, was worthy the
lives of the greatest and best men of the age.
Yet she would have grieved none the less,
had Robert been slain.
	Mrs. Harrison felt in her inmost soul
that a dark shadow was hovering near her,
sometimes she shivered with a sort of terror
when alone, and felt she must tell her hus-
band of these gloomy forebodings but she
did not like to be considered visionary as in
such a case it would appear, nor even admit
it to herself.
	This condition of mind no doubt caused
the dream which changed affairs very ma-
terially. Mrs. Harrison had been longing
with impatience for letters from Sidney,
and as yet none had been received. She
had one evening sat up very late talking
with her husband of the past and anticipa-
ting what the future was likely to be, and
had gone to bed about midnight weary,
and somewhat excited over the events of
the past and present.
	She dreamed she was alone in the old
castle; she called and no one answered; she
wandered through the rooms, they were
deserted and dismal; the great elms and oaks
were moaning and bending with the fierce
night wind; she could hear its shrieks and
the crackling of the limbs, as one after
another broke loose and swung to the
ground, and she peered out into the dark-
ness, just as one great tree fell with a loud


[Column 1]
crash, broken by the raging tempest, shak-
ing the old house to its very foundations;
and then the moon shone out of the dark
clouds, and its pale light revealed to her,
the midnight scene; within and without all
was destruction and confusion, but she
heard voices calling her, Anna’s children,
and she clasped them in her arms, and
reaching out there were her own and Clair’s
son—“all the children are here,” she said,
almost with a wail half aloud “and am I
indeed left alone, of all those who ever
trod these halls?” And she burst into such
sobs of weeping, as to rouse her husband
from his slumbers. In her excitement
which proved quite hysterical, she declared
they must go to England, and though she
had always insisted upon remaining in
America, she could not be dissuaded from
going; as day after day brought no news
from Sidney, it was finally decided upon:
the house was left in charge of trustworthy
people, and the Major with his wife and
children, including Clair’s boy Edward,
set sail for England. Jane Harrison had
never told her husband the dream, she
could not muster the courage, but she felt if
she could see Sidney Barrington, he would
help her to bear the burden, which seemed
too much to carry alone. She knew with
his sympathetic nature, and his sublime
trust in God, he would understand: his
prayers had been a source of uplifting
many times heretofore, and she had un-
bounded faith in his integrity to the new
Gospel, which she had embraced as her
sole guide and help through life, and which
was to be, her solace in death, and hope
beyond the grave. She felt nearer to the
Lord when with this minister of the Gos-
pel, and richer in spiritual strength; she had
not quite learned the lesson of trusting in
God for herself, and relying solely upon
Him.
	The voyage across the ocean was a pleas-
ant one, nothing occurred to mar its serenity,
and on arriving at the landing in England,
they immediately set out for the old home of
the Hilliards; the journey was very inter-
esting, as the Major knew the country
thoroughly, and was able to point out the
most noticable features in their travels, and
give vivid descriptions and incidents both
amusing and instructive to Jane and the
children. The journey was most delight-
ful, the whole country seemed to be clothed
in robes of autumnal splendor. It may be
truly said of Jane Harrison that she was
solemnly and tranquilly happy, the scenery,
the fact of being once more on her native
soil, that she was to revisit the grave of her
mother, see the dear old castle once more,
wonderful memories, and then to meet An-
na’s children, was indeed a heartfelt pleas-
ure in anticipation Sometimes a thought
would come of her husband’s first love, the
wife of her uncle, and the mother of her
dear departed cousin; and she could not
help conjecturing whether he too, had a
wish to visit her grave, but she would not
harbor a moment’s jealousy of one so true
and constant; yet she knew how he had
suffered for Clarice Courtney, and indeed
was better acquainted with the private
histories of the people, who had lived in
and around Hilliard castle, than even her
husband suspected. She had locked up in
her heart, many unwritten histories of the
past few years; what a pity she could not
have written them, but the best things,
the truest, the most precious, and the finest
gems, are those which are buried the deepest

[Column 2]
in the hearts recesses: one catches now and
then an occasional flash of their radiant
brilliancy, but it is only for the moment;
but when we shall know as we are known,
then we may hope to see and comprehend,
all that is highest, and most excellent, in
the human soul; and we shall find it where
we least expected such nobility existed.
	Hilliard castle was reached at last, the
children were exultant, and were allowed
to give unbounded expression to their de-
light, the mother felt deeply, but was self-
controlled, even Major Harrison cast aside
his old prejudices, and partook of the en-
thusiasm of the hour. After partaking re-
freshments and going over the house, and
making various inquiries, a messanger was
dispatched to Walton Hall to find out the
whereabouts of Maitland and Sidney,
Meantime the visitors went through the
grounds adjacent to the house. Many im-
provements had been made, yet much re-
mained unchanged, and Mrs. Harrison was
almost overcome with the remembrances
that pressed upon her, as she went from one
to another of the familiar places. Of the
old servants there were only three she had
ever seen, in Mrs. Burke’s place a young
woman was installed, who knew nothing of
the house or its belongings, she had mar-
ried and come from “up country” to
take charge with her husband who was
managing “the farming land and the
meadows.” The old warden who lived in
the park was the only one to give informa-
tion, he was an ardent admirer of the young
master, and told them how kind he had
been to the people on the place and of other
matters of great interest to Mrs. Harrison;
he remembered her distinctly as Jane Con-
way, and never tired of telling of her “boss-
ing the old Maister,” but he grew
garrulous when he spoke of “good Doctor
Bland” and Jane hurried away lest the
Major should feel embarrassed with such
extravagant laudations of her first husband,
though he could scarcely consider him a
rival in her affections. The old man told
them that a youngish man like a foreigner
had been there several times recently with
men from London, going over everything
inside and outside, "I know naught about it,
not even their names, they questioned me a
great deal, but I know little of the things
they asked about, “as I al’ays minds my
own bizness.” However they had not
long to wait—Maitland came in response to
the message, on horseback, and after greet-
ings were over, told them Sidney was in
London with the lawyers; and would be
back in a day or two; that arrangements
were made leaving Anna’s children equal
with Edward, except the title, and the old
castle; and that the final settlements would
soon be completed. Walton was in un-
usually high spirits, anxious the Major and
his family should dine at Walton Hall at
the earliest date possible for them, to which
they readily consented, the children were
doing finely and evidently expected great
things.
	All the sad presentiments which had
haunted Mrs. Harrison before leaving
America had vanished, and she gave her-
self up to the full enjoyment of the sojourn
at the old homestead. She knew it could
only be a short visit, as her husband must
return to his business which was very im-
portant, and she felt it was the children’s
privilege, to enjoy to the utmost the op-
portunity of seeing and appreciating—
and realizing as far as possible, what an an-

[Column 3]
cestral home really was; feeling it would
impress all their after life.
	A message sent to London immediately
on learning Sidney’s address was answered
by himself in person, arriving as quickly as
the journey could be made; he had much
to tell, but most of it satisfactory to all con-
cerned. Clair had not forgotten his cousin
Jane and had left her a legacy of money
and valuables, with the guardianship of his
boy’s training and education; confided to
her care the direct heir to her uncle’s estate
and title. This expression of his respect
and love she prized beyond all else, and so
the daughter of the cast off sister of the
stern old Baronet, come in a way to be the
arbiter of the destiny of the Hilliard race.
“Things do take a turn,” on the wheels of
time, be it ever so slowly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1895.	No 9.


CONTENTS:
	An Open Letter From Dr. Elvira Stevens Bar-
ney. Congresses of Women. A Brief Historical
Sketch—Emmeline B. Wells. Conference N. A.
W. S. A. Extracts—Kate Tannat Woods. Na-
tional American W. S. A. Notes And News.
Cure For Poison Ivy. The Woman’s Con-
gress. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Statehood First. Editorial Notes
	POETRY:—October—E. B. W. Autumn.


OCTOBER.

THE woods and the fields and the golden grain
Of the mellow and brown October,
And the purple hills, and the furrowed plain,
Bring the days so sad and so sober;
Yet the sigh and moan of the falling leaf,
To the pensive heart is a sweet relief.

The sunset is grand in its flaming red,
Lighting the hills with a wondrous glow;
Though the beauty of summer days has fled,
And the autumn winds begin to blow;
The frost has nipped the flow’rets fair,
That we nursed and tended with so much care.

The beautiful vines that climbed so high,
And hung so graceful on wall and tow’r,
Are changing their colors, for ere they die,
They bloom as bright as the gayest flower;
And we gaze and wonder, so proud they seem
While passing away like a summer dream.

On the mountain side and hills are seen
The blazing sumach and maples red,
And a host of trees in their brilliant sheen,
Shimmer above where the flow’rs lie dead;
And a plaintive voice in the sobbing trees,
Mingles its tones with the passing breeze.

And what remaineth to tell the story
Of the radiant flowers and summer days,
When the earth seem’d crown’d in robes of glory,
And the song of nature like hymn of praise,
Trembled along the verdant land
And echoed afar on the ocean strand?

Why the harvest rich in its golden sheaves,
And fruits the garden and orchards bring;
And the lesson taught by the falling leaves,
That will live again in the breath of Spring;
And though the days are so sad and sober,
There’s beauty and grace in brown October.
E. B. W.


MISS HELEN A. WHITTIER is to repre-
sent at Atlanta, at Gov. Greenhalge’s in-
stance, the Colonial Committee of Mas-
sachusetts women who have sent a rich
collection of relics and souvenirs of our
colonial days. Miss Whittier has for some
years been the proprietor and active mana-
ger of a large cotton mill at Lowell—the
well-known Whittier Cotton Factory. She
is building a new mill at the South, and in-
tends that the product of her Southern mill
shall be of the coarser and cheaper fabrics,
which can be made there to good advantage,
with inferior help, while the head looms in
Massachusetts are exclusively occupied
with the finer grades of manufacture.


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER FROM DR.
ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

	DEAR READERS of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, your Editor has requested me to
give you some details of a 4000 miles jour-
ney.
	Monday June 17th, at 7 a. m., I left Salt
Lake City on an excursion train of inclining-
chair-cars to Council Bluffs by U. P. Rail-
way and was to return, from the Missouri
River by the D. & R. G. Railway, I ar-
rived at the Bluffs after two days and one
nights’s travel. Having thus crossed these
plains three times by team, and three by
cars. This was the limit of my excursion
ticket.
	Tuesday 18th, I expected to leave on the
evening train after getting lunch, ticket and
checks. I had forgotten to take into con-
sideration, as I was traveling eastward, it
was necessary to watch the depot time, in-
stead of my pocket time, which was that of
Salt Lake City. I was left about an hour
in the lurch. I telegraphed, “Got left,
come next train.” This was no loss to
me, for one needs a good night’s rest after
a thousand miles travel, and I got it.
	Wednesday, June 19th, fresh and happy I
started for Grinnell, Iowa on the Rock Island
Road. About sunset within two miles of
there, we found a freight train ahead with
a smashed up engine, waiting for another
one to draw it off the track. By this delay
we were unable to make connection. What
a blessing in disguise! To sleep nights,
and travel days. Nothing better.
	Thursday, 21st, I took the Iowa Central
for Fremont. I was met at the Depot at 2
p. m., by my niece Amelia Howell and her
husband; and had a four miles ride to their
farm. There I found four boys, and two
small girls happy to be acknowledged by
their aged grand aunt, Dear Readers, I can
tell you that as I seated myself at the table
with these fine looking, intelligent children,
whom I realized were my kindred, it was a
happy moment of my life.
	Friday, 21st, in the morning crossed
Skunk River to the other branches of the
family. Here I was greeted by a family
gathering, consisting of my brother Carlos
Stevens, seven years my senior, and his
wife, they were both very feeble. Their
daughter Jennie Brown, husband, and two
girls, the youngest of whom constantly
clung to my side, his daughter Ida Sullivan,
and husband, and two girls, and a very
bright little boy named after his grand-
father. The entire families both sides of
the river, number sixteen.
	For the sake of brevity, I shall have to
omit much that might be interesting, of the
domestic portion of my visit. I had been
planning to have my brother visit Nauvoo,
Ill. with me, to find my parent’s graves.
	Now it seemed providential, that an ex-
cursion train was to leave the next day for
Nauvoo. My brother said he was too
feeble to go, but consented Saturday 22nd,
at five o’clock a. m. My brother and I
started, and arrived by carriage at the depot
in time to go with the excursion. At 7 a.
m., we arrived at Burlington, at 12 o’clock

[Column 2]
took the excursion boat and reached Nauvoo
about 4 p. m. at the Upper Landing.
Fifty years had passed since I laid my
parents here to rest. A family of five were
then left and soon scattered, thousands of
miles apart.
	I hired a horse and carriage and called on
Phineas Kimball, brother-in-law of Sarah
M. Kimball, of this city. He invited us to
come to his house and make our stay after
our drive. I will here say that in all my
life, I have never received a heartier wel-
come, and been treated with greater hospi-
tality, than by Mr. Kimball and family.
His home is roomy and supplied apparently
with every needed luxury. After a couple
of hours sight seeing, the horse being tired
with having been worked all day, the
driver remarked, “There is no use of hunt-
ing for graves in a corn field.” So I dis-
charged the carriage as we arrived at the
south west corner of the Temple Block,
Here is located a drug store, into which we
went for my brother’s relief. As he was
weary, and his memory failed him, he
could not aid me, and I left him here till I
could locate the spot where my parents
lived and died. I found the place on the
corner of Warsaw (the north end called
Rich) and Ripley St. (the east end called
Commerce.) After I had walked from the
Temple Block, east, across five squares, and
one south, to this spot, and returned I
found my brother engaged in a lively chat
on politics, his favorite theme, in which he
keeps himself well posted. Although
weary, I felt happy that I had located one
land mark.
	Sunday morning, June 23rd, Mrs. Kim-,
ball said, “You leave your brother here and
take my husband and the carriage, and he
will drive just where you want, and you
can hunt all you like for those graves.”
We drove to my first land mark. Here my
recollection was aided by some supernatural
power. We went east then south on to
Parley St. then east nearly to the end of
this fenced up street; about a mile and a
half or two miles from the Temple Block.
Says I, “Mr. Kimball there it is in yonder
orchard.,’ This spot I afterwards learned
had been occupied the 4th of July 1853, as
a camping ground for a general holiday
celebration; later, a corn mill had been
erected there; afterwards a carding machine;
then a grape vineyard; and then an orchard
of large trees. Here I brought my brother,
and he was obliged to admit that I was cor-
rect, to the astonishment of those that had
aided me. What could I say, b[-]t that, the
Lord helps those who help themselves.
	This drug store referred to on the Tem-
ple Block, was built in the early fifties, by
the Icarian Society for a school house. I
have a sketch of their houses, and the Tem-
ple ruins as then existed. The stones of
the walls, were taken from the walls of the
Temple, many of which have been used
for similar purposes, and freighted up and
down the Mississippi River.
	Many of the more ornamental stones of
the Temple, I was told, were lying in a lot
in the eastern part of the city, and might
be very desirable as relics. As to the Tem-


[Column 1]
ple, there is not a vestige of it left to mark
the spot where it was once located, save the
well, which is hidden from view by old
buildings and rubbish. Oh how sad the
thought of the present condition, compared
with that of fifty years ago. Then a thriv-
ing city, of 20,000 people, with Temple,
halls, stores, and many improvements.
To day it is estimated to have a population
of only 1,400, and a lack of enterprise in
the same proportion. Then where there
was a large city of well laid out streets,
and comfortable homes. there is now only
a few of the original buildings remaining
as land marks. The old residences are
easily discerned, by their crumbling brick
chimneys, from other buildings, built from
several of the torn down brick ones. The
streets have been plowed up and fenced in-
to large fields and planted with corn, or
grape vines, the latter being cultivated ex-
tensively, resulting in the manufacture of
much wine, which is the main export. I
was told that the majority of the inhabi-
tants are Germans, and they are making a
grand success of grape culture.
	The predominating rule and faith is Ro-
man Catholic. A few of the Americans
are carrying on a small merchandising trade
to supply what demand there is. I recog-
nized Parley P. Pratt's buildings north of
the Temple Block, and the old Horne's
Store, as also the place where Mrs. Ad-
dison Pratt's house was, where she sup-
ported her family, tailoring, while her hus-
band was on the first mission of the saints
to the Society Islands. On her sister Caro-
line Crosby's lot, is remaining only the
small stone granary, but the house on the
adjoining lot formerly owned by Johnathan
Crosby's sister, Mrs. Thompson, now dead,
is in pretty good repair. A part of the
foundation that was made for the Nauvoo
house. has been lying all these years un-
touched, save by the weather's destructive
powers, and is therefore in a wasting con-
dition.
	I visited the grave of Mrs. Emma Smith
Bidamon, and was told that it was her
request to be buried by the side of her pre-
vious husband. Joseph Smith. After Mr.
Bidamon died, he was placed at the other
side of her. Thus presupposing that both
the martyrs, are lying by her more recently
made grave. After a twenty four hours
stay at this place, we took a skiff at the
Lower Landing, and were carried across the
Mississippi River, landing at Montrose,
at 5'clock, we took the cars and arrived at
Burlington, after a three hours ride, too
late to make connections, we took rooms
near the Depot for the night. I here went
to the drug store for my brother's benefit.
	Monday June 24, we were awakened at
4 o'clock, by whistles and noise of wagons,
hauling lumber for a lumber company.
The landlady said every thing in the busi-
ness line was very dull, and young men
had to go elsewhere to get employment.
Burlington is a city of 14,000 inhabitants.
At 10, o'clock we arrived at Fremont after
a three hours ride on the cars and four
miles by carriage. We then were glad to
settle down at my niece's for the balance of
the day and night.
	Tuesday June 25th, my brother took me
home with him accross the Skunk River.
Here I remained the next four weeks visit-
ing these families. I aided my niece Amelia
in nursing one child through an attack of
measles. During this time nothing of
special note occurred until the 21st, of July

[Column 2]
while I was stopping with my brother
when there was a death in the family of
Amelia Howell, my brother's daughter's
child, Emma Jane, died at 7-30 o'clock p.
m., Sunday 21st, of pneumonia resulting
from an attack of measles. This child was
attended by their family physician. Mon-
day 22nd, 3 o'clock; I was at the funeral.
Thus ended the short life of three years, of
a lovely promising child. God gives the
rose; but with it comes the thorns. I was
here detained on account of this sickness
and death. The heat to me here was very
oppressive.
	July 23, at 3 o'clock terminated my visit
at this place, all gathered, old and young,
around the carriage as I start, for an eight
miles ride, some worrying because of my
health, and traveling alone. This includes
three visits in fifty years; on I went arriv-
ing at the railroad station Delta in due
season for a good long night's ride. Could
only get ticket to Ottawa. I arrived at
Rock Island in the night, at 4 o'clock.
After a tedious endurance of the depot ac-
commodations of a couple of hours, we pull-
ed on to Ottowa, and another weary halt,
at which time we traveled on with rapid
speed.
	Wednesday July 24th, I arrived at York-
ville, Kendall Co. Ill., here the air seemed
cool, balmy and bracing. My dispatch had
not been delivered to Solon Boomer's family;
but all the same I was made welcome, by
himself, wife, son, three daughters, and
Ma Boomer. The entire family including
hired man, and girl, were early seated at
the supper table This charming home, of
harmony, education, refinement, freedom
and ease, one grand welcome to rest, enjoy
and be enjoyed; carriages hitched at will.
The husband full of wit and humor. What
would be more delightful? Cousin Lois
was more retiring. The sound of music
hurried me to the parlor, where I found the
son Henry, a handsome trim built man,
standing full six feet, with his cornet, and
sister Jessie at the piano. Each seemed to
have their several duties, to regularly at-
tend to in the morning. Thus as promptly
was every thing accomplished, and perfect
order reigned, and all ready for the next
thing on the program. It seemed no trouble
for cousin Lois to wheel her husband's mother
out to meals at the head of the table. The old
lady has not walked for seven years, and
though now 88 years of age, her spirits are
so mellow and peaceful, and she enjoys a
rich joke as well as the youngest.
	I visited Cousin Lois's mother in her
own home, and found her happily situated,
enjoying the society of her son Harland
Barnes, whose wife has buried her last, and
only child. These two aged ladies, samples
of peace and piety, I wish the whole world
could see, and take pattern from them. I
spent several hours in reading, and convers-
ing with them on theology.
	The third family, that of Ella Barnes
Raymond, has five small children. She is
living in a rented house, waiting to locate
their means, that they have economically
saved, for their growing family. Ah! The
youngest with her love and brilliancy, won
my heart as she nestled to sleep in my
lap. I did what I could to make my visit
with my kindred a success, in this particu-
lar; that they might know when I had left,
that they had been visited by a friend. I
also visited three burying grounds, in one
obtained record of my brother Carlos's
son, and searched, until I found, in another

[Column 3]
my twin brother's remains, even to the
metal plate that had been placed on his cof-
fin, on which was inscribed, "Barnard
Stevens, died March 13th, 1857; aged 27
years." As the old cemetery is private
property, and being transferred to the new,
I have since my return, Sep. 16, 1895,
placed these remains, in the Salt Lake
Cemetery on my lot, by the side of his sister
Jane Lewis's child buried 1849.
	I had made calculations to continue my
journey, Monday Aug. 5th, but I was again
detained. I went nine miles in a carriage
to Aurora Ill. with Cousin Jessie to get her
some glasses properly fitted.
	Tuesday, Aug. 6th, Cousin Lois wished
me to wait another day and go with herself
and daughter Edith, and visit her brother
Orton Barnes, and wife, and family of six
children in Memphis, Missouri. He served
three years in the Union Army, and was
wounded in the knee. I saw him when
he was home on a furlow in 1864 5.
Apparel, trunk-packing, lunch, and prere-
quisities hurried up.
	Wednesday, Aug. 7th, we were to take
the cars three miles distant at Bristol Sta-
tion. My heart ached most to leave poor
Ma Boomer, and cousin Mabel's tears flowed
freely as our genial visit was at an end, as
we hurriedly drove by Ma Barnes, she
saluted us from the porch. Arriving at
Burlington after dark with Edith sick, I
went to the drug store for remedies. Here
we separated, I for Montrose, and they for
Memphis, where I was to join them. I
arrived at Montrose at 10 p. m., previous
to taking a furnished room, I ordered a
skiff to cross the river in the morning.
	Thursday, Aug. 8th, at 6 a. m. I was
snugly seated in the stern end of the skiff.
Crossed the Mississippi and arrived at the
house of Phineas Kimball, just in time as
he was on the eve of going to Warsaw, to
an Old Settlers Political Gathering; but he
hurriedly with his carriage located me as
desired, for the purpose of finishing as far
as possible, the busines, that I had left un-
done.
	Friday, Aug. 9th. In the morning at the
table, Ethan Kimball placed kimself and
carriage at my service, which was accepted
until 12 o'clock, and I again had occasion
for gratitude. A rest in the afternoon and
I was then driven to the Lower Landing to
meet my previously ordered skiff, at
7 o'clock p. m. I recrossed the river. As
I took my last view of the beautifully lo
cated Nauvoo, once a lovely city on a hill,
where my parents lie at rest—Imagine
Reader my thoughts! Then checking my
baggage, I started for Keokuk at 11 o'clock
p. m. I was obliged, with my satchel,
to stop in the middle of a steep pitch to get
breath, and rest to my exhausted heart.
Here I got a part of a night's rest.
	Saturday Aug. 10th, 10'clock a. m. I
arrived at Memphis Mo. Being met at the
depot, by Orton Barnes and wife. After
riding nine miles to his farm, arrived with
good appetite in time for dinner, which was
served for sixteen. About the first subject
introduced was; that they had two young
people down with the typhoid fever. The
first, was a young man, and they sent for his
sister to come and care for him, and then
she took sick. I learned by letter that she
died Monday Aug. 19th, 1895. They sent
for another sister, to come and care for both.
This was not a pleasing prospect ahead of
me, but I trusted in the All Wise Power.
	Excuse me as a Suffragist: and I will


[Column 1]
tell you what Cousin Orton Barnes said,
"This wife, I, and five daughters and one
son, pull together; hence our success, with
twenty thousand dollars in the bank; and
hundreds of acres, of well cultivated land,
unencumbered with mortgages.” He also
like his brother Harlan is filling many
positions of public trust. He is also called
Dea. Barnes as was his father before him. His
piano, organ, and folding doors opening in-
to his three parlors, show that city talent
and education was being introduced into
the farm life.
	A great variety of tropical plants were
all around the house. Missouri is a corn
state, but here in the northern part some-
thing else is raised. To work seemed a
necessary appendage to this home; with so
many sick, and so many to eat, baking,
washing, churning, milking, ice-cream
making, yes even to riding the reaper.
So many girls, and but one boy. They
all seemed so well qualified to fill each
place, as it came along. One said "she
could run a farm as well as father." I
only got a glimpse of the work on this
mammoth farm, in the two rides; over the
hills, and hollows, seeing tenant houses,
and barns. Among the rest, while there,
a herd of cattle was bought, and turned in-
to a large pasture to use up the grass.
Cousin Orton said that his land would av-
erage from twenty, to forty dollars per
acre. Says I “You, with your varicose
veins, had better ride, and let some one
else work.” He said his son was going to
attend the farm, and the rest were going to
Memphis to finish their education, in the
High Schools.
	Monday Aug. 12, 8 o’clock a. m. I left
Cousin Lois and her brother Orton’s family
for Memphis. I got a ticket to Kansas City,
Kansas. Going east to Medill, at 12 a. m.
waited for connection. At 2 p. m. started
west to Kansas City, arriving in the night.
	Here I tried to use my excursion ticket,
by getting a lay off at Newton Kansas;
but the cash was what they required “six-
teen to one.” Here the immense amount
of travel required much care by the in-
dividual, as well as several policemen, that
each should at the proper time, get upon the
right car. Of course, the inclining cushioned
seat was nice, which I did not always have,
but I was not comfortable; yet, very thank-
ful that the rest were asleep, so that I
could walk the aisle. In traveling one
comes in contact with many opposing con-
ditions, but a little suavity helps to modify
and make many friends.
	It is a long road through Missouri, and
Kansas, with but little stay between.
	Tuesday Aug. 13th, 6 o’clock a. m., I
arrived at Newton. My mail which I sent
the day before I left Memphis came the day
after I did. What was the matter—No sis-
ter here—What was I to do? I enquired
after the engineer Trouslot.  I was directed
to the place by the depot policeman, who
said “You will see the new roof.” The
house had been torn a few days before by a
cyclone which I had just escaped by my de-
tention. I found the engineer asleep, as
also the rest of the family, save the hired
girl. Of course it would not be right to
wake an engineer, to have an early break-
fast; so, about half past nine o’clock, all
including my sister Amelia Trouslot, dined
together. How long could I stay? And
how much space have I left to tell it? Time
was pressing, and space is short.
	Julius Trouslot, and wife Lettie; welcomed

[Column 2]
me to their home, and set their table with
the luxuries of the land. His two sons,
and daughter, were furnished with a piano,
and school facilities; although yet young,
the eldest son, bid fair to equal the best.
The children appeared kind and affectionate
to their step-mother, and parents. His
wife, reminded me so much of my Aunt
Sarah Field—intelligent, and consistent.
I saw but little of him, he was off with his
engine till late at night, and slept late each
morning.
	My sister is very feeble; her wearied
face gave me pain, yet she works all the
time she is able. She feels she must be
employed; as she is skillful with the needle.
I had visited with her twice at my home,
since I had others of my kindred, and the
heat was so oppressive, I felt I must hurry
on.
	My sister writes that Aug. Monday 19,
after I left; their house was visited with a
terrific hail storm. The hail, measuring
five and six inches, broke all the glass in
her north window, into small particles and
scattered it all over the floor; piling up a
foot deep under the window outside. Strip-
ping the leaves from all the trees, and
ruining her plants and beautiful foliage.
She further informed me that Eugene had
laid off from his engine Sept. 9th, as there
were so many washouts, that Eastern trains
could not travel. Was not I favored?
	Thursday Aug. 15th, p. m. I started for
Colorado Springs. Not until now was I
able to use my excursion ticket, on my re-
turn; again checking my luggage, and
parting with my Sister Amelia, at the de-
pot who feared that we should not meet
again. My attention was attracted all the
way through Missouri and Arkansas, to the
almost exclusive cultivation of corn.
Corn! Corn! Johny-cake; and Corn! Noth-
ing else seemed to be raised.
	Friday Aug. 16th, at 8-30 a. m. I ar-
rived at Colorado Springs; very weary.
After considerable confusion and delay, I
got a lay off on my ticket for this place,
and Salida. Here my sister’s son, Rollin
Burdett Trouslot, met me at the depot. At
10 o’clock a. m. I arrived at his rented
house, and for the first time, saw his wife
and their one year old baby boy, named
Rollin Cunnabell Trouslot. Well they
may be proud of him, a picture of health
and beauty. The father is now full of care,
and anxiety, at work as General Manager
of the Colorado Automatic Telephone Co.,
hence his time is fully occupied. I gave
Satnrday up to rest.
(To Be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 21, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14th.
Tuition $50.00 Residence 238 East, 4th
South. Telephone 383.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONGRESSES OF WOMEN.

	THE first organization to meet in Atlanta
Georgia, will be the National Council of
Women of the United States, Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson, president. This congress
will open on the 7th of October, and will
close Saturday, the 12th. Twenty organi-
zations of women compose the council, and
they represent seven hundred thousand wo-
men. The King’s Daughters will be rep-
resented on the 14th, the Georgia Woman’s
Press Association will have a three days’
session, beginning on the second of the
month and closing on the 4th. The Na-
tional-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, with Miss Susan B. Anthony, its great
leader, will have the 17th. The Daughters
of the American Revolution on the 18th,


and the Colonial Dames on the 19th; the
World’s Fair Board of Lady Managers,
with Mrs. Potter Palmer at their head, on
the 22nd; the National Woman’s Press As-
sociation from the 22d, to the 26th, and the
Educational Congresses from the 26th to
the 30th of October will each furnish “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
Household Economics will require two
days, the 30th and 31st, in which to prove
that “There is is no place like home.”
This fact they will illustrate with a beauti-
ful cottage, which will be home of a work-
ingman and his wife and four children dur-
ing the three and a half months of the Ex-
position.
	The General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs (Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin, president)
will for the first time hold its federation
council in the South, on the 1st and 2nd of
November. The W. C. T. U. has accepted
the 5th of November, the Association for
the Advancement of Women will have the
4th, and the New England Woman’s Press
Association the 6th. For five days Mrs.
Lillian Cole Bethel will give lectures on
parliamentary law, and will conduct parlia-
mentary drills for the benefit of women of
the South.
	The International League of Press Clubs
will meet there in November, and the wo-
men members will read papers in the As-
sembly Hall on the 13th.


AUTUMN.

SELECTED.
THOU burden of all songs the earth hath sung,
Thou retrospect in Time's reverted eyes,
Thou metaphor of everything that dies,
That dies ill-starred, or dies beloved and young,
And therefore blest and wise—
O be less beautiful, or be less brief,
Thou tragic splendor, strange and full of fear!
In vain her pageant shall the Summer rear?
At thy mute signal, leaf by golden leaf,
Crumbles the gorgeous year.

Ah, ghostly as remembered mirth, the tale
Of Summer’s bloom, the legend of the Spring!
And thou, too, flutterest an impatient wing,
Thou presence yet more fugitive and frail,
Thou most unbodied thing,
Whose very being is thy going hence,
And passage and departure all thy theme;
Whose life doth still a splendid dying seem.
And thou at height of thy magnificence
A figment and a dream.

Stilled is the virgin rapture that was June,
And cold is August's panting heart of fire;
And in the storm-dismantled forest-choir
For thine own elegy the winds attune
Their wild and wizard lyre:
And poignant grows the charm of thy decay,
The pathos of thy beauty, and the sting,
Thou parable of greatness vanishing!
For me, thy woods of gold and skies of gray
With speech fantastic ring.

For me, to dream resigned, there come and go,
'Twixt mountains draped and hooded night and
morn,
Exclusive notes in wandering wafture borne,
From undiscoverable lips that blow
An immaterial horn;
And spectral seem thy winter-boding trees,
Thy ruinous bowers and drifted foliage we—
O Past and Future in sad bridal met,
O voice of everything that perishes,
And soul of all regret!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
		one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
	ut regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 1, 1895.


[Column 1]
STATEHOOD FIRST.

	ONE cannot help seeing and realizing
that these are very peculiar times, and that
the events now transpiring are significant of
the future, and are of the deepest interest
at the present, to all thinking men and wo-
men.
	The people of Utah are confronted by
problems and questions comparatively new
to them, and which are of the utmost im-
portance. Such changes have been
wrought within the last few years as were
"never dreamed of in our philosophy," to say
the least; however these conditions must be
met and carefully considered, and all rela-
tive matters adjusted for the best good of
the whole people, in the wisest manner and
by the most judicious methods. Every one
who loves Utah, who believes in the great
future that awaits the new state, with its
varied and abundant resources, its thrifty
and conservative people, must feel the deep-
est anxiety in the adjustment of all that
seems likely to hinder her material pros-
perity or her national importance. In-
dividual prejudices or those differences of
opinion which grow out of partisanship
ought not to stand in the way of progress
for a moment. Statehood first and other
things of minor importance afterwards. In
this connection the writer cannot help re-
gretting that statehood or the adoption of
the Constitution was not made a separate
election; but be that as it may as a matter
of opinion; the situation must be accepted
and arguments pro and con are of no
avail now.
	Stand firm and steadfast for statehood
should be the watchword, in the present
and every woman should see, that every
man does his duty at the polls, in this
respect at the coming election, as she can-
not vote herself.
	Statehood obtained many other things
may come up afterwards which it will be
comparatively easy to settle satisfactorily,
and therefore it seems now the imperative
duty of every person to use the utmost ex-
ertion and best endeavors to obtain such
political freedom as is accorded to all
citizens of sovereign states in this great
Republic.
	Women should take into consideration
too that statehood once gained they stand
equal with man in political importance,
and their opinions and views will have
some weight in the body politic thereafter.
	It is all so different since the adverse
decision of the Supreme Court of Utah on
the question of equal suffrage, and women

[Column 2]
are working at a great disadvantage, but
patience must be called into active exercise,
and women should stand for the best and
work with zeal worthy of the great cause
even if it is not agreeable to be pronounced
in their opinions and efforts; in view of a
great good to be achieved for the common-
wealth of Utah.
	Women in Utah should be as brave and
as patriotic as the women of any other
period of great importance, we reverence
the women of the revolutionary period,
why then when there is a grand opportunity
do not women come to the front and work
for that which will give them a similar
heritage to bequeathe to their children. It
is a patriotic duty not only to Utah but to
the whole nation to work for statehood,
because of the glory of the Republic which
becomes greater and more powerful with
each new state added to its number. Aside
from glory, or honor, women should take
such part in affairs relating to government,
especially the home department as will
have a moral tendency to its uplifting to a
higher standard. There are so many seri-
ous questions involved, which women are
well calculated to modify and to prescribe
for, and bring into the realm of politics
another element which may and necessarily
would effect a great change for the better.
In contemplating the conditions at the
present time one cannot help feeling there
should be a strong and determined effort
made to obtain statehood, that now is the
time and there is little time left to work in
before the election in November. Every
woman has some influence she can use in
this direction, and she should not lose her
opportunity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mr. M. A. Meyendorff a Polish exile,
and patient who is sojourning in this city
for a short time, is arranging to give a lec-
ture here on Russian prisons and life in
Siberia. One reads of these terrible things
afar off, but rarely does one hear from the
exiles their own story. Mr. Meyendorff
has had an eventful life, and his lecture
will be thrilling with actual experiences; as
he has a wonderful gift of describing the
scenes through which he has passed. Mr.
Meyendorff joined the Polish insurrection
in 1863 when a mere boy and was captured
by the Russian authorities and banished for
life to Siberia, although his father
was a Polish nobleman and held a high of-
fice in the Russian service. After spend-
ing eighteen months in Siberia, young
Meyendorff was released through the in-
tercession of the United States govern-
ment, and came to America where he has
since resided. Mr. Meyendorff is genial in
conversation, has a slightly foreign ac-
cent, and a distinctively European manner
and bearing. He is certainly a man of
culture and educational attainments and
cannot fail to be attractive as a public
lecturer.
	MRS. LOUISE BOYDEN, the teacher of
elocution and Delsarte gave a recital on
Tuesday evening, September 20th in
Christiansen's Hall which was quite a suc-
cess in an artistic way in showing off her
pupils, especially the younger ones, and it
proved too how diligent and pains-taking
the teacher had been to bring them forward
in difficult parts. The renditions by some
of them were excellent and deserve special
mention. The statuesque posing by Miss


Josie Morris was particularly pleasiug; the
“Scene from Leah,” by Blanche Thomas,
was artistically given, though a very diffi-
cult undertaking for one not accustomed to
the stage. Grandma’s Story by Frankie
Young was quite a finished piece of acting,
voice, manner and style all good; the musi-
cal number by W. C. Clive “Mazurka de
Concert” a new composition given for the
first time from the manuscript, was warmly
applauded and richly deserved it, all the
parts were well taken though we have not
space to mention in detail: Mrs. Boyden in
the merchant of Venice Act. IV. Scene I.
gave the audience a good idea of her versa-
tility. Mrs. Boyden spares no pains with
her pupils and is both diligent, and clever
in her line of work and certainly deserves
public recognition.


A BRIEF HISTORICAL SKETCH.

OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	THE organization of women known as
National Woman’s Relief Society with
headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah, is
both national and international in scope
and charatcer having branches in the
United States and in foreign countries.
This society though strictly charitable and
philanthropic is also educational in the best
and truest sense of the word, dealing with
the subjects that tend to the elevation and
advancement of women in all the lines of
thought and action that benefit humanity.
	The first organization of this society was
effected on the 17th, of March 1842, at the
Masonic Hall, in Nauvoo, Illinois. A
preliminary meeting of women had been
held previously at the residence of Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball at which time the mat-
ter of organizing an Association for bene-
volent purposes was considered and decided
upon. Mrs. Emma Smith was elected
President, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland Counselors,
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, Miss Phebe
Ann Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elivira Coules Treasurer. There were
nineteen original members including the
officers. The increase in membership dur-
ing the first two years reached 1275, the
number of names enrolled.
	When the “Mormon” people left Illinois
to journey westward to an unknown land,
the society could not operate as an organ-
ized body, and of necessity regular meet-
ing were discontinued, though the women
kept up their benevolent work, wherever
and whenever an opportunity presented it-
self, and many were in need of kindly acts
and deeds of charity, and sympathy, for
those were the days of toil and suffering, of
scarcity and hardships. There were few
gifts to bestow, but many lessons of
patience and resignation to be learned in
the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of the Salt Lake
valley organizations of the Relief Society
were formed as a natural out-growth of the
parent society in Nauvoo, for the same
spirit and sentiment still existed, and was
soon brought into active exercise. The
first general President was Miss Eliza R.
Snow, who had been the first secretary,
and had brought with her from Nauvoo the
records of the society.
	The benefits resulting from this organiza-
tion in the new colonies, cannot be over
estimated; women doing thorough practical,


[Column 1]
charitable duty in an efficiently organized
capacity in every ward and settlement,
proved of material benefit in those early
times. Later on with the facilities afforded,
when the borders of civilization were ex-
tended, and colonizing in new places became
a part of the program. the Relief Society
proved a positive advantage, giving to wo-
men the contact with each other in that
social way, which was in the best sense
co-operative and produced the best results
of mutual helpfulness, without seeming de-
pendence. The material resources at that
time were very few indeed, but the spirit of
improvement mentally and spiritually was
strengthened by meeting together regularly,
and the ministration of love and tenderness
in times of hardship, privation, sickness
and sorrow incident to the conditions,
of the colonists were beyond expression in
words.
	As prosperity came to the people the
society grew accordingly, and there were
many opportunities afforded to reach out
help and assistance to the needy, and to
teach practical and economic methods to
new-comers, who arrived y[-]ar after year in
this Western land in the Rocky Mountain
region. There is not time to tell of the
growth and development of the society, but
an estimate was made of the amount ex-
panded in charities at the time of the
Centennial celebration in Philadelphia in
1876, which was about twenty years from
the time of the permanent reorganization
of the Society in Utah. The total amount
accumulated and disbursed was over ninety
thousand dollars. Under the judicious
management of Miss Snow, aided by many
efficient workers, trained and disciplined in
the same methods, a perfect system of or-
ganization was effected, beginning with
wards, from that to counties (ecclesiastically
designated Stakes of Zion) which are all
under the supervision of a Central Board.
Each of these divisions and sub-divisions
have similar organizations to the Central
Board with control of their own local af-
fairs, but make regular semi-annual reports,
as ward organizations to the stake, and an-
nual reports as stakes to the Central Board.
The outside branches not included in stakes
and those in foreign countries, report direct
to the secretary of the Central Board.
Thus it is comparatively easy to transact
any business because of the thorough and
complete system of organization.
	The approximate amount of means ex-
pended for charity and similar purposes
during the five years from 1888 to 1892,
inclusive was $90,350,25.
	The Relief Society in its several branches
owns valuable real estate, halls to meet in
stores of dry goods and fancy articles and even
groceries, and other buildings for various
purposes; some have homes for needy and
aged women, in many places the local
society owns and operates millinery and
dress-making establishments, and in some
localities the Society has live, stock sheep
and calves, and also wool and other pro-
ducts. Many have dividends in stores,
factories and other enterprises. In many
places the society has granaries where grain
is stored away against times of scarcity and
famine. Some have land planted with
mulberry trees; for the cultivation of the
silk worm is one of the industries fostered
and encouraged b the society, and it is
particularly well adapted to the climate of
Utah. These industries and establish-
ments are not carried on for personal bene-

[Column 2]
fit, but in the interests of the society, that
the poor, aged and helpless may be assisted
from the profits of these enterprises, instead
of soliciting donations from the people; in
these and various other ways the society
renders valuable aid to women, who could
not otherwise become self-sustaining, and
one rarely ever hears of a failure in any of
the enterprises, managed and conducted by
women. One of the most unique plans
contrived by women in the country places
is putting aside Sunday eggs, and using
the means thus obtained for a fund. The
following figures of a three months report
is a fair sample and not exceptional. It is
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co. Utah.
Donations in Sundries,...........$78.55
Sunday eggs,..................109.58
Cash donations,..................89.00
Apple and mulberry trees,........41.00
Means from parties...............40.00
Quilts made,....................23.00
Total..........................381.13
	On the 17th of March, 1892, the Relief
Society celebrated its Jubilee of fifty years.
This anniversary was observed in all parts
of the world where branches of the society
had been organized, including Canada,
Mexico, the Sandwich Islands, Australia,
New Zealand, Great Britain, Switzerland,
Germany, Holland, Denmark. Sweden and
Norway and other foreign places. The
most distinctive feature of the celebration
was a prayer offered at high noon in every
place where the day was kept, forming as
it were an almost complete belt, or circle of
prayer around the world. The arrange-
ments for these services were made before-
hand by correspondence with the presiding
officers in all the several countries.
	In Salt Lake City the services of the day
were held in the large Tabernacle, which
was handsomely and appropriately decorat-
ed for the occasion. The great organ was
draped with the stars and stripes, the flags
extending across the entire front, and the
floral decorations were strikingly beauti-
ful. Life-size paintings of the general
presidents of the society were conspicuous-
ly hung, so as to be seen by the entire con-
gregation, (Mrs. Emma Smith the first
president, Miss Eliza R. Snow her succes-
sor and the present presiding officer Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young) an immense key made
of flowers (everlasting) was hung with the
pictures, representing the key of knowledge,
which was turned for women when the
society was organized. The large stands
for speakers were occupied by the officers
of the society, and eminent men and wo-
men of the church, and the immense
auditorium was well filled. The exercises
were conducted by the President Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, the Tabernacle choir, under
the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered choice musical selections, anthems
etc., and Professor J. Daynes accompanied
on the great organ. The character of the
speeches was mostly historical, going back
over the half century of work, recounting
some of the difficulties and obstacles en-
countered, and eulogizing the brave pioneer
women workers, who had passed away.
This was the most important meeting the
society has ever held, especially on account
of its being general in every branch of the
entire organization in all lands. The after-
noon and evening were kept as a holiday
in feasting with the poor, and in entertain-
ments of a social, literary and musical

[Column 3]
character throughout all the society in every
land and country. Reports of the interest-
ing meetings, feasts, and entertainments
were made by the local secretaries, and for-
warded to the Central Board in Salt Lake
city, so that the society has on hand a com
plete record of the Jubilee.
	There are many interesting things in
connection with the history of this society,
but there is not time to go into details,
suffice to say it has been an important
school of instruction to its members;
though the main object of the society is
the care of the needy, the sick, the helpless
and the unfortunate, to visit the widow and
the fatherless, to administer comfort and
consolation as well as temporal relief to
physical wants, to see that none are left
to suffer, and to encourge habits of industry
and economy in those who are able to do
something towards their own support, to
provide ways and means for such persons,
and give instruction if necessary to those
who through lack of training, or misfor-
tune need special attention. Also to care
for the dying and the dead, to be at the bed-
side of the lonely ones when death is near,
to robe the body neatly and properly for
burial when all is over, and to perform
those kindly deeds with tenderness and
grace. This is a part of the mission of the
women of this society, it is useless to en-
umerate all the duties, privileges and bless-
ings pertaining to this grand institution,
but many lessons of patience, long-suffer-
ing and forbearance have thus been
learned, and the higher and better quali-
ties of head and heart developed and cul-
tivated; pride, envy, jealousy and avarice
subdued, and a higher standard of human
excellence attained than could possibly
have been reached in any other way.
	In 1891, at the National Council in
Washington, D. C. the Relief Society be-
came connected with the National Council
of Women of the United Statea. This en-
titles the society to an equal standing with
all the great organizations thus federated in
the Council, giving to each and all this
broad system of representation, and of be-
coming widely known, not possible ex-
cept by united efforts.
	October 10, 1892, the society was incor-
porated under the name of the National
Woman’s Relief Society. This step had
been meditated for some time and articles
of incorproation had been prepared, for the
safer conduct and management of the tem-
poral affairs, of so large and important an
institution. Separate articles of association
have been adopted by auxiliary branches of
the society, which give each respective
society complete control of its own property,
with power to transact any business per-
taining thereto.
	The present status of the society is very
encouraging; as the people spread out in-
to new localities, more organizations are
effected, more buildings erected, and home
industries adapted to the needs of the society
and the locality are being established. One
of the notable characteristics of the women
thus organized is their practical indepen-
dence. In the regular meetings of the
society women have been for years in the
habit of speaking upon the topics of the
times, thus keeping posted upon current
events, and in this way have gained such
confidence that it is comparatively easy to
address an audience on ordinary subjects
without notes. A considerable number of
the members are widows, or single women,


depending upon their own exertions, and
the management of their own affairs, yet
they are as generous in contributing time
and material assistance, and as helpful in
suggesting ways and means of building up
the society, as women of leisure, whose
husbands provide for the household.
	The society as a whole believes in equal
suffrage, and has ever since the Legisla-
ture of the Territory extended the fran-
chise to the women of Utah in February
1870, taught and inculculated the principle
of equal political rights.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper established in June 1872,
has been a powerful factor in aiding the
society in all its departments, publishing
regular reports, and keeping its affairs be-
fore the general public; it is also very help-
ful in historical matters of the society, and 
of woman's work in general in Utah, and 
elsewhere.
	The present officers of the society are
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young President, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, First Vice-President, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Vice-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Third Vice-
President; Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Sec-
retary and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer.  There are thirty-five stakes
regularly organized in this western country,
besides those in foreign lands, and on the
islands of the sea, each with the same of
ficers as the Central Board and these stakes
with separate branches in various localities
in different parts of the United States and
the world, include between five and six
hundred branches with a total membership
of about thirty thousand women. The 
value of property as a whole cannot be
calculated easily, as values change so much
in real estate, buildings, rents and interest
or profit on dividends; and grain is never
reported in any other way except in bushels.
but there is sufficient given in this sketch
to show what the society really is, and what
it stands for in the way of temporal pros-
perity, material progress, and advancement
in everything which means mental, social
and spiritual uplifting, and mutual helpful-
ness for women
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
   	 Secretary National Woman’s Relief
	Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	MRS. WELLS: The next speaker will be
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honarary Vice President
of the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
and the pioneer woman of Woman Suf-
frage in Utah.
	Miss Anthony: I am very proud as
President of the National Association to in-
troduce to you the Honorable Vice Presi-
dent which we at our last session appointed
for Utah Honarary Vice President of the
National Association.
	Mrs. Kimball: Miss President. Ladies
and Gentlemen:—We are expected to wel-
come Miss Anthony; in the midst of all
this confusion and after what has been said,
what can I say? Excuse me but I will say
I am proud of the honor that has been con-
fered upon me on this occasion, and on be-
half of the Suffragists of the Territory of

[Column 2]
Utah, which is soon to become a state and
in behalf of the friends of suffrage through-
out the Territory, I extend to Miss Anthony
the right hand of fellowship, and with all
reverence, honor and love: I want to be a
little personal. Allow me to say in the
earley fifties I read an article ridiculing a
little paper that was published in the City
of New York called the “Revolution” in
which I saw the names of Elizabeth Cady-
Stanton and Miss Susan B. Anthony. I
looked at the little article of ridicule and I
said “There is something I see in that
which strikes me and I want it," and I
reached out after the little paper I was very
much struck with it. It was very peculiar
and said very many strange things, but I
learned from that little paper the theory and
object they had in view was to create
thought, their idea was if you can get the
people to talk upon this subject, if you can
get them to agitate the subject, agitation
produces reform. Now this is going to be
a reformation and we are going to do all we
can to produce this reformation and we are
going to labor in our own way. Now 52
years ago I would not have dared to say the
bold, grand things that Miss Anthony said,
it would have made me so unpopular and I
hardly dared to shoulder it; but the seed
was planted within my soul and I have been
laboring for the same cause—I felt that it
was uplifting, that it was necessary for the
nation, and as time rolled on we were very
careful. I heard Miss Anthony say in
those days "I did not dare to speak with-
out a paper in my hand” and Mrs. Stanton
did a great deal of writing but she soon got
so she could talk very well and she traveled
in her own way and talked in her own way.
People criticized her and told many ridiculous
things about her and in many ways she was
abused and insulted. My sympathy went
out for Miss Anthony and my sympathies
have been with her work ever since I have
known her, and in my heart I have blessed
her many and many a time and the result
of her labors we are reaping more today
than we realize. I never could have done
the work that I have done in this Territory
had it not been for the work Miss Anthony
did before me. [applause.] Many could
not do the work we have done today, if I
had not pioneered the way. (Applause)
I have had the honor to be addressed by
strangers as Miss Anthony—I had that
honor this morning on the stage by a lady
from Colorado, I think, but Miss Anthony
is a much better looking woman than I am
but that is all right. I must say again Miss
Anthony, I am glad to see you and our
Territory will be proud of your visit, and
we expect that you will do us good and
we hope that you will go from us with
pleasant remembrances of this visit. I
want to say a little more about Miss An-
thony. They used to throw eggs at her
and they used to say the most ridiculous
things about her, and they used to hiss her.
When she went to St. Louis a great many
years ago to deliver a lecture, some one
was kind enough to pass a basket of flowers
to the stage and she looked at them with
amazement and stepped back and said: “I
don’t know how to receive this. Now if
you had thrown rocks at me I would have
had a defense, I would have had some-
thing to say right away."
	On the anniversary of Miss Anthony’s
seventieth birthday it was my privilege to
be in Washington and I attended the grand
banquet, at which Miss Anthony received

[Column 3]
the most distinguished honors that I ever
saw extended to a woman and she has now
lived until she has arrived at that position
in which Napoleon was placed at one time
when he attended a banquet. Someone
criticized where his seat was at the table.they
said, “Napoleon, you should have been set
at the head of the table.” He said, “That
is all right, I am Napoleon and wherever
Napoleon is there is the head of the table,”
(applause) and wherever Miss Anthony is
there is the head of the Woman Suffrage
Movement. (Applause.)
	Mrs. Wells. Ladies and Gentlemen—
This is Mrs, Zina D. H. Young, President of
the Nationol Relief Society and also Hon-
arary Vice-president of the Suffrage Associa-
tion and Honorary Vice-president of the
National American Suffrage Association.
(Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.
	Governor of Utah, Ladies and Gentlemen
—You have heard this morning that which
ought to make our hearts glad, that which
should make us thankful to our Heavenly
Father that we live in this stage of the
world that our womanhood is appreciated
and I thank God that I am a woman, and
I am thankful that we have the privilege of
independence in seeking to raise our boys
and girls to be men and women that will
appreciate the dignity of the times we live
in. In the early days to lay the foundation
of this State many of the pioneers laid
down their lives and all of us laid our-
selves on the altar when we started for Utah.
Applause. We now see the result of the
work that has been done and as the last
lady speaker has observed, we will be glad
to see on every flag of the Union that Wo-
man’s Suffrage is especially honored and
that woman is honored in her position. Is
there any nation on the earth that is raised
to dignity and honor without the noble
mothers who pray for them, who think for
them, whose milk flows to sustain life, and
how great is the calling, how great is the
power of a righteous mother. Do we not
all praise the mother of George Washing-
ton and there are many others that can be
mentioned whose names are to be revered,
and the mothers who are here to-day will
be held in reverence and esteem as the
mothers of the coming generations of the
world. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—“I am very glad to pre-
sent to you Mrs William Ferry, who
twenty-one years ago lived at Grand Haven,
Michigan, at the time of the great Woman
Suffrage Campaign in the state of Michigan
in 1874 at the close of which 40,000 of the
best men of the state went to the ballot-
box and voted for us, but unfortunately for
us a majority voted no. Mr. Ferry him-
self was the chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Campaign of the state at
that time and Mrs. Ferry took a great in-
terest in our cause. Mr. Ferry helped to
carry on the campaign throughout the
state, so Mrs. Ferry stands here as the rep-
resentative of a state in which this question
was defeated at the ballot-box, and I rejoice
with her that she and her husband can to-
day be residents of a state in which the
great question is triumphant. I have the
honor to introduce to you Mrs. William
Ferry formerly of Michigan, now of this
Territory. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. WILLIAM FERRY
OF PARK CITY.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: I am here to-


day in honor of Miss Anthony and for the
reverence I have had for her for many
years. In finishing my school days, not
my education for that can never be finished,
but the school days in Rochester, New
York, a friend of mine the Hon. Geo. A.
Hollister had a great admiration for Miss
Anthony; and he got me interested in her
when I was eighteen years of age,and from
that time on I have looked upon her work
and have honored her for it and have in-
terested myself and been in sympathy with
the principles that she has advocated.
(Applause.) I am not here to say what shall
be done in Utah to-day, but I am here to
say that the women all over the world
should do their very best, that they should
take upon themselves and help place upon
them the authority to do that which will
make them the best mothers, the best wo-
men and the best part of humanity. As
to what has been said this morning I am in
full sympathy, but what I have to say to
you just now is to repeat what I have said
of my respect and admiration for Miss An-
thony and for the great work that she has
done and for her colleagues in this work,
and I trust the day is coming to Utah,as I
believe it is all over the Union when in
every state there will be a Suffrage Flag,
when before the door of every home there
will be as we heard in one of the churches
yesterday, a family flag, but here in this
country that it shall represent the father
and the mother, the son and the daughter
with all the privileges that can make the
very best of their opportunities not only for
themselves but for the world around them.
I was particularly interested in that thought
which was expressed by one of the speakers
this morning, in that which particularly
belongs to women, the home, the school,
the morals, the good which is desired by
every true woman should be helped along,
and I believe that it will never be done suc-
cessfully until women have the ballot.
Applause.
	Miss Anthony:—“I want to present to you
Mrs. Bathsheba Smith whose husband was
one of the first men to speak for the wo-
men of Utah to have the ballot in the days
gone by. He was in the legislature and
did his utmost in that direction, he did per-
haps quite as much to help submit and
bring into formation many of the laws of
this Territory, as any other man and his
name is well known among the people as is
also the name of his good wife.” Applause.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—l am very happy
to be here and I have listened with great
pleasure to what has been said this morn-
ing, and I rejoice in the hope that we will
soon become a state and that women will
have equal suffrage. I did not expect to
be called upon to speak as I never was a
speaker, but am a worker. I don’t care to
add many words when there are so many
able speakers here to address you, but I
will say that “I am very glad to be here.”
Applause.
	Miss Anthony: We have all got to
preach this morning ‘‘I am glad to be here”
and I hope if there is any one here who
does not get called out personally, whose
spirit is moved to say "I am glad to be
here” to understand that there is perfect
freedom to say what you wish. Mrs. Wells
knows most of the people and I see she is
bringing up another lady now, Mrs. C. E.
Allen, of Salt Lake City, you will recog-
nize the name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.
	HORACE MANN once said that “the
Lyceum was the People’s College.” The
great educator, whose memory we cherish,
passed away too soon to recognize the pow-
er of clubs organized by women as educa-
tors and character-builders.
	If an occasional lecture at the Lyceum
was indeed a college, then our clubs are
universities, where post-graduate courses
are obtained, and special degrees granted to
the faithful.
	It is especially difficult to write briefly
on this large subject, and also difficult to
avoid trenching upon the ground of Home
Education. To my mind, any education
which does not find its root and sustenance
in a well-ordered home is lamentably de-
fective. The Woman’s Club educates both
sexes. Every woman carries to the man
near her the influence of the club, and yet
we have in our own State women who dare
not belong to a club,because their husbands
oppose it. This ignorance and prejudice is
fast wearing away, for quite recently a
prominent business man was heard to say
“that he could not afford to permit his wife’s
membership to lapse, for the club was a
social force which affected his business.”
	The least conspicious and most retiring
member may often be a quiet tower of
strength, because she has been educated out
of weakness into a broader development,
and is capable of influencing others.
	Much of the success of the Kindergarten
movement is due to the repeated discussions
of the question in clubs. The mother
there first learned the truth and passed it
on, until public opinion was educated suf-
ficiently to accept it.
	Every theory of education must depend
largely upon women for development; they
are in the majority as teachers, and the day
will doubtless come when school superinten-
dents will be at least equally divided among
the sexes. Men find little time for detail,
little for the study of children, and they
gladly leave such matters to the mother-
hood and innate quickness of our sex. Club
women have almost invariably been selected
for supervisors or upon school committees,
as they have informed themselves concern-
ing the various methods of education in
their clubs.
	A bright woman, writing from the Far
West, says, “I was utterly forlorn when I
first wrote you. I chanced to see in an old
newspaper brought in about some goods an
item concerning a lecture on ‘food.’ We
live in a section of country where food is
abundant and money scarce. We need to
be instructed concerning the value and
nourishing properties of food, and especial-
ly concerning the diet of growing children.
Out of this desire, with your help, a club
was formed, some riding six and even ten
miles to hear a paper read, ‘a real paper.’as
they say, ‘exactly the same as the ladies in
Boston listen to.” A few months after
the formation of the club our correspon-
dent wrote: “We are more than happy for
the inspiring words sent us by Eastern
friends. You are helping us to a broader
and better education.”
	Our public schools bear testimony to the
work of women’s clubs: better school-
houses, larger grounds, sanitary plumbing,
fewer home studies, manual training, music,
cooking, drawing, physical culture,
political economy, and kindred topics were
discussed in clubs everywhere before they

[Column 2]
were known to the public. A true republic
must be founded on the principles of justice
and patriotism, so our clubs teach.
	The clubs educate women and take them
out of the ruts. They teach them to know
fhemselves, to value the sacredness of home
and motherhood, to contend against exist-
ing wrongs, to apply needed remedies, and
to adopt business methods. Thought-
sharing is the highest kind of profit-shar-
ing, and thought-sharing is the foundation
principle of all clubs. Their educating in-
fluence cannot be measured by the few facts
here presented. As the stone thrown into
the water creates endless circles and ripples,
so must our thought currents act and react
upon the lives of others. The great club
movement is to me part of the Divine evo-
lution of our time. Where it changes old
and established things it improves and en-
riches: every step forward must be measur-
ed by the rule of wisdom before taken;
every one must come to feel that this tre-
mendous educative force is far beyond all
personal pettiness or prejudice. It sur-
rounds the invalid in her sick-room; the
mother mourning for her child; the minis-
ter in his pulpit, and the orator on the plat-
form. It supplements the school-room and
college, and makes the Higher Education
truly high, aiming toward a perfected
humanity. Thus shall we pass on from
nature to immortality.
	KATE TANNAT WOODS.


NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S. A.

	AMENDMENTS to by-laws of N. A. W.
S. A , proposed by Harriet Taylor Upton.
To amend by-law X section I by striking
out the word four in second sentence and
substituting five instead. To amend by-
law X section II by changing it to by-law
XI. To amend by-law X section 12 by
changing it to by-law XII. To amend by-
law X section 13 by changing it to by-law
XIII. To amend by-laws by adding by-
law XIV as follows: These by-laws may be
amended by a two thirds vote at any an-
nual meeting, one day’s notice having been
given in convention. Amendment to con-
stitution, proposed by Louisa Southworth:
That the name of this organization be sim-
plified by expunging two adjectives, Ameri-
can and Woman, and that it shall adopt for
the future the more convenient title of Na-
tional Suffrage Association.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

MISS ALICE FLETCHER is a delegate from
the Scientific Association to the Congress of
Americanists, which will meet in the city
of Mexico, October 15.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER will speak for
woman suffrage this winter. Her subject
will be “The Ballot and the Cradle.” She
will explain the relation of woman suf-
frage to the home and the State.
	SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., has according to
the Searchlight, at least four women
notaries in that city: Mrs. Ralph Smith,
Miss Hanson, Miss Addie Ballou, and Mrs.
Phillips.
	MISS ANNA GORDON has been made
American Secretary of the Mowbray
House Cycling Association, the leading
woman’s cycling club in London. Miss
Gordon has been for many years Miss Wil-
lard’s private secretary.


MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
is recovering slowly from her recent illness,
which was for so long a time thought to be
fatal. She is being cared for by her sister,
Miss Augusta Dodge. We hope she may
live to see the release of Mrs. Maybrick,
for which she has worked so perseveringly
and unselfishly.
	HON. JOHN HOOKER, the husband of
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, was serious-
ly injured by being run into by a bicyclist
at Hartford, Conn. Mr. Hooker was car-
ried home, where it was found that the
right thigh bone was broken. He is al-
most eighty years old.
	THE directory of the State bar of Nebras-
ka contains the names of nine women at-
torneys: Ada M. Bittenbender, Winona S.
Sawyer, Mrs. Zara Wilson and Nellie M.
Richardson, Lincoln; Mrs. Fannie O’Linn,
Chadron; Alice A. Minick, Beatrice; Miss
E. E. Wright, Scotia; Mae B. Wood,
Omaha; Kate M. Hall. Ord.
	THE Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Asso-
ciation held its annual convention in San
Francisco early in September. Mrs. Ada
Van Pelt, editor of the Pacific Ensign, the
State W. C. T. U. paper, was re-elected
president, and Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, first
vice president. The resolutions adopted
included the following; “We heartily en-
dorse the suffrage amendment giving the
franchise to woman, and urge every man to
vote for the same.”
	HON. E. M. CORRELL, the champion of
the woman suffrage amendment in the
Nebraska legislature in 1881, died recently
at home in Hebron. Mr. Correll was a
consistent and able advocate of woman
suffrage in his different terms as a member
of the Nebraska House, as editor of the
Hebron Journal, as a leader in the G. A.
R., in every capacity, his voice and in-
fluence might always be counted on to aid
the movement for woman’s legal and politi-
cal equality.
	MRS. BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, secretary of
the American Peace Bureau, has received
the thanks of Emperor William of Ger-
many, conveyed through the German
Ambassador, for congratulations forwarded
to him on the occasion of the opening of
the Baltic and North Sea Canal. The Em-
peror expressed gratification that “his in-
tentions and endeavors are fully understood
and appreciated by the distinguished pro-
moters of the noble aims which form the
purpose of your association.
	GOVERNOR GREENHALGE, of Mass. in
‘‘the Parliament of Man.” at the Park
Street Church vestry, Boston, last Wednes-
day, spoke noble words for woman suffrage.
He said:
	“When I use the term man, it includes
woman, or rather woman includes the
whole business. (Applause.)
	I urge it upon every woman in the Com-
monwealth to come to the polls next No-
vember and do her duty.”
	This appeal sounds like a clarion call
throughout America for good citizenship.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CURE FOR POISON IVY.

	AN excellent remedy for this poison is the
whey obtained by scalding sour milk. Dip
cloths in the whey and apply to the affected
parts renewing with fresh ones as fast as
they dry, until the fever subsides. Do not
use the same cloths more than once.


PRACTICAL inventions by women are
making a good showing at Atlanta. Em- 
ma Farrell, of Brooklyn, has invented a re-
volving frying pan, and Mrs. A. E. Taylor,
of Brooklyn, a bed-clothes fastener, which
is a handy contrivance to keep the clothes
over the children at night. Mrs. H. Ryan
contributes a metal liquid polish, which
polishes all metals, hot or cold.

Ellis R. Shipp, M.D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 2l, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst’
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 44 S,
MAIN STREET
Opp.Zion's Co-op. Mer. Inst’n.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	THE Woman’s Congress of the Association for
the Advancement of Women will be held this
year in New Orleans, Nov. 6, 7, and 8. It will be
preceded as usual by a Business Meeting of of-
ficers on the evening of Nov. 5. By special ar-
rangement a preliminary meeting of one day will
be held in Atlanta, Ga., Nov. 4.
	JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
	LILY LORD TIFFT, Secretary.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to Martha Pane Jones
Thomas who departed this life September 5th,
1895.
	Whereas in the Providence of an Allwise God,
we have been called upon to part with our be-
loved sister and friend, who having led a noble
life on earth, and filled her position as counselor
in the Relief Society in an exemplary manner
from the time of its first organization to within the
last four or five years on account of her extreme
old age—
	We her co laborers deem it a pleasant duty to
testily to her faithfulness and integrity in the cause
of truth.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we extend our
sympathy to her family in their bereavement, hav-
ing lost a faithful loving mother and friend.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has called her
home as a shock of corn fully ripe--Therefore
be it resolved, we the members of the Relief
Society do cherish her memory and emulate her
virtues and strive to carry out in our lives her
motherly counsel which was always wise in tem-
poral as well as spiritual things
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family. A c[-]py be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society and a copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	IN memory of Sister Susannah W. Perry who
died in Cedar City Sep. 11th, 1895; she was born
in Lancashire, England, on the 19th, of May,
1825. Sister Perry embraced the Gospel in her
native land in the year 1848 and in connection
with her husband emigrated to Utah, arriving in
Cedar City in the year 1852, where she has resided
up to the time of her death. Sister Perry faith-
fully fulfilled the duties of a mother in her own
household and teacher in our Relief Society for
many years.
	Her words of encouragement and kind deeds,
and her strict attendance to the meetings, proved
her faithfulness in this work. She had a remark-
able memory and having read the Scriptures a
great deal could refer to any passage in them.
Suffering from a cancer, the pain of which at
times was almost unendurable, for over two years;
she many times would refer to the trials of Job,
and the great faith he had in his Maker. Her
last hours were seemingly without much pain, and
comforted and sustained by the loving presence
of her husband and her ten sons and daughters,
her spirit took its flight to that home she loved to
sing about.
	The funeral services were conducted in the
Tabernacle, May 13th. Several of the brethren
eulogizing the character of our dear sister and
exhorting those left behind, to emulate her vir-
tues, which may we all strive to do.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
Cedar City.

MRS. MARY A. BAKER TANNER.
	TO the many friends and acquaintances of Mary
R. Baker Tanner, I announce her death, which
occured in Grantsville Utah, Oct. 7th, 1894. She
was seventy years of age the 12th of March, 1894.
Although a great sufferer from asthma since
childhood, her last sickness was brief, she, being
in usual health, until two weeks previous to her
death. It would take many pages to relate the
story of the life of this energetic and good wo-
man. It is well known to all her acquaintances
with what willing hands she administered acts of
kindness to those about her.
	She has been identified with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from an early
date, moving with her parents from her native
state (New York) to Kirtland, Ohio, she joined
the church at the age of thirteen years.
	It was at this place she first saw the prophet
Joseph Smith and declared him to be a Prophet
of God, and bore testimony of it faithfully to the
last.
	From Kirtland she moved to Illinois the winter
the Saints were driven from Missouri.
	With her parents from that place moved to

[Column 2]
Iowa, living there till the Saints were driven
from Nauvoo.
	At Council Bluffs she was united in marriage to
Elder Nathan Tanner. In 1849 she crossed the
plains, part of the time driving an ox team.
	She bore all the trials of life with great patience
and faith. Many times she has borne testimony
to the gift of healing.
	She not only did all she could for herself
spiritually, but performed the work for many of
her dead kindred, and was a faithful member of
the Relief Society.
	She was a faithful and loving wife and although
bearing no children she was a mother indeed.
Many will speak of some kind deed done, and
good counsel given, by Aunt Mary.
	Few have passed away being as well prepared
in all things. She has finished her work and lain
down to a quiet rest.
	"Happy soul thy toils are ended
	And thy trials here below
	Now with angel guides attended
	And a crown on thee bestowed."
COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

