VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MARCH 15, AND APRIL 1, 1896. No. 20-21.


CONTENTS:
Adelsberg Cave—Kim. Reports From Grants-
ville—L. L. G. R. Almira Johnson Barton—E.
Crane Watson. Woman’s Sphere—Sarah B.
Layton. The California Campaign—Ellen C.
Sargent. Conference Notice—Wilford Woodruff.
Relief Society Conference—Zina D. H. Young.
Sericulture -- Margaret A. Caine. Our Character
—Zion’s Convert. State Suffrage Association—
Margaret A. Caine. The National Flag—Wilford
Woodruff. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia
D. Alder. Wedding Reception And Suffrage—
Julia Lyman. Resolutions. Agricultural College.
Snowflake Stake -- Della Fish Notes And News.
Janet Crystal Shelley—Com.  In Memoriam.
Conference N. A. W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Women In Public Affairs. Edi-
torial.
	POETRY:—Western Wilds—Emily H. Wood-
mansee. A Fragment—L. M. H. Lovingly In-
scribed To Josephine—L. D. A.


WESTERN WILD’S.

JUBILANT the song of progress!  That these
	western valleys sing;
Through the grand old mountain gorges clear
	triumphant echoes ring;
Mountain torrents swiftly leaping downward with
	resistless might,
Onward to the valley’s sweeping, shout, a chorus
	of delight;
Countless gushing, gurgling, streamlets, blend
	their harmonizing sound;
Caroling as if for gladness, while they scatter life
	around;
Fields of waving rip’ning cereals, answer to the
prayer oft said—
With such different depths of feeling, “give us
	Lord! our daily bread.” ’
Pastures green, and vine fill’d gardens, humming
	bees, and lowing kine,
Make this second land of Canaan, flow, with
	honey, milk, and wine;
Here and there in lovely lakelets sport and thrive
	the finny brood;
Furnishing fastidious fancies, with delicious,
	dainty food.
Marvels, ev’ry where surround’ us, gaze on yonder
	inland sea!
Broad expanse of liquid splendor, Utah’s crown-
	ing novelty!
Briny billows, flashing, foaming, with old ocean’s
	rise and swell
Into calmer moods subsiding, always weaving
	beauty’s spell;
Shining waves like glittering silver, mirror such
	resplendent skies—
Lo! The poet’s dreams elysian are reveal’d to
	wond’ring eyes
By the bracing mountain breezes, even sluggish
	souls are stirred;
Every where the hum of business, and of enter-
	prise is heard;
Lo! Where reigned primeval silence—desola-
	tion’s awful hush—
People thrive, and cities flourish, orchards bloom
	and roses blush;
Isolation’s veil is lifted, desolation’s day is o’er;
Western Wilds, so called for ages, are advancing
	to the fore.
Eastern empires will be waning, shaken by inter-
	nal jars,
While these “Western Wilds” will glitter in the
	galaxy of “Stars!”
Bright as orbs now at their zenith, that in glorious
	circuits run


Lo! The Western Constellation, shall be second
	unto none.
Hail! ye broad and fruitful valleys—in such robes
	of beauty drest;
Well the sunset’s golden glory typifies the gor-
	geous West;
Hail! unequalled Eldorado! region of surpassing
	worth;
Western Wilds, ye shall be noted, as the "Ophir”
	of the earth;
Freedom’s banner firmly planted, on the Western
	heights sublime—
Shall protect a prosp’rous people, gathered out
	of ev’ry clime.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


[Column 1]
ADELSBERG CAVE.
	TUESDAY, July 25th.—On leaving Vien-
na, we had a magnificent view of the city
and suburbs to the West—to the East—the
Leitha Mountains. Our route was south-
ward via of Semmering Pass to Adelsberg
and Triest. The day was perfect. We
passed through the Tyrolean and Slavonian
Alps—the scenery picturesque. All the 
way the road runs along abrupt precipices
over fifteen viaducts—the views, wild and 
grand until Semmering the summit of the
line.
	The train now makes a rapid descent,
passing through Gratz, Capitol of Styria, 
beautifully situated on the Mur, and is a 
favorite residence of retired officers of the
Austrian Army. From here the train runs 
through the valley of the Mur to Adels-
berg—A small town in the Duchy of
Carniola—renowned for its Stalactite Caves,
“Which may tempt the traveler to stop
over a train”
	This is an Alpine Village, the people do
not speak Russian. Swiss, French, Spanish
nor German, but a mixture of all Prof. was
the only one who could converse with
them. They seemed much amused to see 
so many ladies and so few gentlemen.
	The Grand Hotel stands upon a hill,
with a stream of water near and the scenery
most beautiful, on top of a mountain was a 
ruined castle—which makes and scene ro-
mantic. Early next morning a delightful
drive brought us to the cave—Prof. had
prepared for a grand illumination. Soon
after we entered we saw the mysterious
dark river Poibo (By some supposed to be
the river Wey) whose course can be traced
for miles occasionally appearing above
ground then disappearing until it is finally
lost sight of. The cave was illuminated with
two thousand burners and several 
magnesian lights, the tout ensemble pro-
ducing an effect I shall never forget. We 
walked for five miles through it, the Guide
called out the names of the chambers,
“Here is the Great Dome” or Neptune
Grotto—it is 70 ft high, 144 ft. wide with
most wonderful stalactite formations, we 
beheld a succession of columns and pillars
which seemed to support the roof. Yet all
nature’s work,all stalactites and stalagmites
forming themselves into curious solid masses
all deserving the names given them, such as
“The Waterfall,” “The Sleeping Maiden,”

[Column 2]
“The Palm," “The Lion.” “The Organ.”
“The Pulpit”—the stalactites from which
it was formed being most beautiful, one
piece, they claimed would be three million
four hundred thousand years forming, it
was splendid and clear and in the lights
was most beautiful, it is easy to estimate
the years forming, as it is from the drop-
ping of water impregnated with carbonate
of lime. We passed through chamber after
chamber each more beautiful than the last.
There was the ball room 150 ft. long, 9 ft.
wide and 50 ft. high. Each year on Whit-
Monday they give a ball and this vast hall
is lighted with many thousand lights, then
came Hall of Mt. Calvary, 180 ft. high
680 ft. wide and 642 ft. long, a rising slope 
full of stalagmites resembling, as one of
the party remarked, “So many tomb
stones" these columns, pillars and draperies
are of the purest whiteness, though some-
times assuming cream, crimson and rose 
tints, it was amusing to hear the comments,
as the fantastic figures, to each imagination
represented different objects. Much 
fatigued we returned to the Hotel for din-
ner, then off for Triest.
	A delightful journey of two hours skirt-
ing the shores of the Adriatic by the palace 
and gardens of Chiramar, the chateau of
Maximilian, it was here his body was
brought from Mexico. Triest is a large
Austrian seaport, the great emporium for
the triad of the Austrian Empire—by the
Adriatic—it is 72 miles from Venice, a 
most interesting place. Prof. gave us 
many bits of history. Madame Adelaide
Aunt of Louis XVI, of France, on the 19, 
Feb. 1791, with her Sister Victoria, fled
from the horrors of the revolution, sought
an asylum in Rome, Naples and other
places without success; at length arrived at
Corfu, where they obtained protection until
the Russian General Outschaord took them
to Triest where they remained. 
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamer across the Sea so we may have the
opportunity to see the beautiful approach to
Venice, the sea is calm and beautifully blue,
the moon shone clear and bright, many of
the young people will remain on deck all 
night, but the older members retired, we
were six in a room. I could look through
the port, and see the shimmering of the 
waves as the steamer dipped, could now and
then catch a peep at the moon. Mrs. Von
A-----said she cared not for the moon, she
felt nervous, as if her time had come, had
read in the Guide, a storm was sudden and
that beautiful placid water could boil and
lash and foam, demolishing things in a
frightful manner; however she soon felt
better and ere long we heard some one say
Venice—Oh! Oh! so we hurried up on deck
just before sunrise, presently the sun ap-
peared above the horizon and the city was
flecked with golden rays, the scene was en-
trancing; all my dreams of the Adriatic
Queen were realized. There are Gondolas
for the party with the stars and stripes on
each, the Gondolas are all black with elongat-
ed prows, like the neck of black swans, in a few
moments we were getting down into the
dark colored boats—we approach the mole,


pass the Piazza Lou Marco with its two sen-
tinel columns of red granite, its Palace of the
Doges and tall campanile, which we saw
from afar and soon we land at the door of
the Grand Hotel d’ltalie. My Gondola
was first to arrive, stepping from the boats
upon the marble floor of the hall I heard
my name called, was shown a room prepared
for breakfast, which was spread out on the
garden terrace  Breakfast in Venice—must
quote from Prof. Gastineau "Oh animal-
ism of our coarse human nature ever as-
serting itself over the finer essence of the
soul!”  We have at last touched the point
whereupon concentrated our most fanciful
dreams. We are in Venice—the ideal city,
the mysterious though palpable Mortar and
Stone Venice—rising resplendent with a
thousand charms from the amorous flood,
and we stop to think of breakfast before a
week has elapsed! Nay—we succumb to
materialism enough to desire breakfast on
the first morning of our arrival! It must
be admitted that a more delightful place
could scarcely be conceived to break a
night's fast through this terraced garden,
bound on one side by the river street,
overlooking the Grand Canal, with its
Gondolas crossing each other in every
direction, the sun bathes all in resplendent
light as we sit down to our places; a Gon-
dola loaded with musicians and singers ap-
proach and move at the steps. As the
sound of Italian instruments strike our ear,
it adds enchantment to the scene.”
After partaking of the refreshments in
shape of coffee, bread, beafsteak, cakes and
butter, we felt substantial and contented
that at least this day would be delightful.
At midnight throwing open the shutters of
my window and looking out upon the Alley
a (Collie) "there are two Venices, one of the
canals the other of the alleys, by which and
the 378 bridges you may walk over the
hundred isles, and thought of the events of
the day, and the magical evening, the
moonlight flooding the old Palaces and
Canals. We had spent the evening on the
Grand Platzza (or square) with the
thousands of gaily dressed people, flowers
and music, for the Queen Marguarette was
there—standing near the Palace. I heard
the shout Vive la Rein—looking up had a
splendid view of her leaning on the
balcony looking at her people. Now in the
moonlight and quiet it all seemed like a
beautiful dream realized.—KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REPORTS FROM GRANTSVILLE. 

	ON Thursday, March 12th 1896, the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake held its
Quarterly Conferencee in the Grantsville
Meeting House. Stake President, Mary A.
Hunter and First Counselor Rhoda Lyman
conducted the meetings which were held in
the forenoon and afternoon, and were spirit-
ed and instructive.  
	Because of ill health, Second Counselor
Ellen Anderson, was unable to attend the
meetings: but at her home were very cordi-
ally entertained Sisters Zina Y. Card and
Lula Greene Richards, missionaries from
Salt Lake City. Reports from the different
branches of the Society, the annual Stake
Reports, and minutes of the last Quarterly
Conference were read by Stake Secretary
Mary A. House, which together with a
concise verbal report given by President M.
A. Hunter showed the pleasing fact that
the Tooele Stake Relief Society is prosper-
ous and fululfilling, its legitimate require-

[Column 2]
ments. At the close of the Relief Society
Conference, Sister Card met with the offi-
cers of the Young Ladies Association, and
gave some important instructions.
	In the evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held
Conference. A newly organized Stake
Board took charge of this meeting, Sister
Ann Tate having lately resigned as Presi-
dent, Naomi Gillett having been elected to
that office with Sister Susannah Dunn and
Ellen Parks as Counselors. President
Gillett read a brief journalistic report of
the labors of herself and Counselors in visit-
ing and holding meetings with various
branches of the Association, since December
last. Verbal reports were also given by
presidents of branches; besides which a
choice program was rendered by members
of the Association.
	Primary Conference was held in the fore-
noon of Friday March 13, at which Stake
President Louisa O. Hale presided, assisted
by her Counselors M. T. Atkins, and Lou-
sa Fawson.
	The first, part of the meeting was devoted
to branch and Stake reports of a very satis-
factory nature. Then followed a program
the selections and rendition of which did
great credit to both officers and members.
	At each of the meetings mentioned above,
instructions and exhortations were offered
by the visiting sisters as well as by several
who are residents of the Stake. The inter-
est of the meetings was much enhanced by
the cheering presence and encouraging
words of Bishop Wrathall of Grantsville,
Stake Superintendent of Sunday Schools,
Gustave Johnson, and other leading breth-
ren.
	The Grantsville Choir also contributed
largely to the effectiveness of the Confer-
ence, by the rendering of delightful music
and singing.
	Friday evening an appropriate finis was
given to this enjoyable time of refreshing,
in the form of “An Old Fashioned Dance,"
the proceeds to be given to the poor. At
this party a goodly number of the ladies,
(and gentlemen as well,) were dressed in
old fashioned costumes of various styles.
Several of the girls had their hair done ac-
cording to old time custom, which to some
was very becoming. Plain quadrilles and
other old fashioned dances were the order
of the evening to some extent; and the old
time spirit of sociability made all feel at
home and happy.
	One feature of progress in Grantsville is
a neat adobie hall just being completed,
which, together with the lot upon which it
stands, belongs to the Relief Society. The
brethren have generously donated the entire
work of building and finishing the hall, the
Society furnishing the material only. In
this respect at least, there are other branches
which might pattern after Grantsville and
do well.
	A visit to the Grantsville Sunday School
was very gratifying. Marked improve- 
ments are taking place in that important
organization. In the Primary department
a subdivision is contemplated, wherein a 
Kindergarten is soon to be established. 
	L. L. G. R.


ALMIRA JOHNSON BARTON

Editor, Exponent:
	BELIEVING the short sketch I am now
penning, will be of interest to many, I send
the same to your paper for publication.
	Sister Almira Barton serenely passed


from this stage of action March 4th after
an illness of six days. Auntie Barton, as
she was familliarly called, was born Oct.
12th 1812, having reached the ripe old age
of 84 years, 4 months and 28 days. She
embraced the gospel in New York State, in
an early day. Afterwards she became a
plural wife to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
After his death she married Joseph Barton,
by whom she had five children; two died
before she reached Utah about 1858. When
she reached Parowan about 1865, another
of her little flock was called home leaving
her with two daughters, her husband did
not come with her to the valley. One of
these girls was unusually bright and pre-
possessing, and when just on the verge of
marriage Della, her mother’s favorite com-
panion and comfort, was called to join her
brothers and sisters who had gone before.
	Sister Barton’s grief was almost uncontroll-
able, for she was worse than alone as the
remaining child caused more care and anxiety
than an ordinary family who had their
reasoning faculties, but a more patient and
devoted mother never was; never complain-
ing but ever guiding and guarding her
blank-minded girl with a more than jealous
care, constantly praying that she might out-
live her child, dreading the idea of having
her sent to an asylum. Not quite two
years have waned since Almira was restored
to her mother’s little circle all now having
gone to that “Beautiful Beyond.’’ On this
occassion Auntie Barton exclaimed “Thank
God my prayers have been answered, I am
now willing to go when Father wants me.’’
Since living in Parowan Sister Barton has
never had to wonder where would her food
come from on the morrow, she has been
comfortably taken care of by the church,
and for several years has had help to do her
house work and keep her company. She
had quite a circle of elderly lady friends,
whom our bishop always told her to invite
as often as she chose and he would see that
she had the necessaries to entertain them,
she was naturally very cheerful and seemed
to enjoy life very much. She was prepar-
ing to go to the St. George Temple to work
when she was suddenly stricken with a
paralytic stroke which resulted in her death.
	She was beautifully laid away in the best
material that could be procured. Among
the speakers at the funeral services was
Aunt Paulina Lyman who had been inti-
mately acquainted with the deceased since
1841. The closing sentiments of one of the
speakers was. “May we all be as well pre-
pared to go home as was Aunt Almira
Barton,” to which many hearts responded.
Amen. 
	E. CRANE WATSON.
Parowan, March 11th 1896.


LOMDON, March 23.—Thomas Hughes,
Q. C., author of  “Tom Brown’s School
Days,” “Tom Brown at Oxford,” and the
founder of the British settlement Rugby, 
Tenn., is dead, aged 73.
	ONE of the more noteworthy articles in
the March Harper's will be “Arcadian Bee-
Ranching,” by Miss Ninetta Eames; “Jane
Hubb’s Salvation,” by Mrs. Helen Hunt-
ington, together with installments of the
serials, “On Snow-Shoes to the Barren
Grounds,” “Briseis,” “Personal Recol-
lections of Joan of Arc,” aud the “Ger-
man Struggle for Liberty.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FRAGMENT.

I SCORN the wretch who’ll sit with coward smile,
And list to falsehood of the loved and absent:
Few are the gems that have not e’en a flaw, 
And spots obscure the glory of the sun:
We are but mortal, and the best may hope 
Heaven can add lustre to their budding virtues—
I ask not for perfection in my friends, 
But perfect love and truth! With these I feel
Earth is not beggared of her earthly charms, 
Nor life all weariness; nor mankind
Made up of selfishness, and hate and sense
That death is not so sad if I can wave
A fond adieu to eyes that weeping say
Dearest and best of friends, may perfect bliss be
	thine.
My friend may wear upon his name some scars,
He found in battle with a world of sin,
And his great mind may harbor some delusions
Speech at times lack dignity, but to me
He is all gentleness, and truth and honor;
Quick to avenge a wrong my being feels;
Joyous in happy hours, in sickness kind,
Tender as loving mother’s softest touch,
Gifted with noble thoughts above the ken
Of the vile mass, echoes in many forms;
I would defend my friend ’gainst the leagued
	world!
The meanest thing that crawls upon this earth,
Is gold refined to foulest, poorest dross,
When matched with that intelligence that owes
God-given gratitude to faithful friend,
And pays it with black treason.
	L.M.H.


LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO JOSEPHINE.

[On her 21st Birthday, Jan. 18th. 1895.]
COME, Josephine, rejoice tonight,
And let thy heart be gay and light,
Sweet youth’s around thy pathway yet.
Thy brow, with wisdom’s crown is set.
The Book of Life’s just opening now,
And o’er its page you restless bow; 
O, may you read the written word,
"Josephine, beloved of the Lord.”
As each strange page you eager scan,  
May God to you unfold his plan;
His light shine out upon the way,
And turn your heart, to him alway. 
"Josephine" name glorious made in storied past,
Napoleon’s love unto the last;
Around her name sweet memories cling,
And incense rare, the ages bring.
For her his fervent thought is seen,
His cry “My Josephine, my Josephine.”
His star of Empire set the day,
He cast fair Josephine away.
I pray your life, my Josephine,
May sunshine be, all storms between;
For in your youth you chose the way
That leads to realms of endless day.
Thy life sweet fragrance breathes around,
Thy heart with loving thoughts abound; 
List now, the Angel’s voice in prayer
To Heaven ascends, thy name is there.
And when the sands of life run low,
When the crimson West is all aglow,
With loved ones holding each dear hand
May you safely reach the “Better Land.”
L.D.A.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S SPHERE.

	IT is often expressed by many of the 
ladies, of our fair Utah, if they could only
have the privilege of going to the polls and
casting their vote, they would show to man 

[Column 2]
kind at large that they would be able to
bring about a better state of affairs. I often
ask myself the question. Is going to the
polls all that is needed to bring this about?
And the thought comes to me that home
and self is the place to prepare ourselves to
bring a change for the better. It must be
brought about in our every day life, at our
own fireside. In our daily walk and con-
versation, and in setting a good example
before our children, and before all the
world. The eyes of the world are upon us
and if we want our condition bettered, we
must seek for wisdom and intelligence from
a pure source. If we wish to be truly
great, we must deny ourselves of the many
weak points that are so closely connected
and interwoven in our very natures. I be-
lieve of all people in the world the women
of Utah have the best opportunity of un-
derstanding what is wanted to bring about
a better state of affairs. If they will only
go the right way to obtain it, it will never
come by indulging in light and foolish con-
versation, or in loose habits. I believe
woman was created for a far nobler purpose
and loftier sphere than what she really is
today? But it can only be reached step by
step. By abstaining from everything that
is low and unlike a true and virtuous wo-
man. They are endowed by nature with
intelligence, and we can choose for our-
selves which course we will pursue. The
way is marked so plain that no one can be
mistaken. We must shun everything that
is evil. Commence by first watching our-
selves, if we want our husbands to be bet-
ter men set them the example. From the
beginning Woman has taken the lead.
	Let Woman’s grace and love combine
	To shed a luster o’er mankind,
	And kindle fires to ever burn,
	In every heart the truth to learn.
	She led the way for man to go,
	That good and evil he might know;
	By which like God he might become, 
	And live again with him at home.
	Woman may well be proud today of the 
part she acted in the beginning of her
existence. She played well her part to the
end, that man might be, and have a true
knowledge of God; so today woman must
set the example. And with few exceptions
man will follow her to a higher plane. In
my opinion man and woman must rise to-
gether. One cannot attain to anything
that is great and good without the other. I
am myself a woman; but I can never get
one step above man. I have seen women
who think they are better and know more
than their husbands and often try to make
them appear small before company,  I
always feel that it makes no difference
what our cailing or place is, if we fill that
place honorably. But when we step over
the mark we commit an error. And we
should stop right there and correct our-
selves before we go any farther. If we un-
derstood ourselves as it is our privilege to
do, we would not make so many mistakes.
And we must correct those errors in our-
selves before we undertake to teach others.
	If we ever expect to rule or govern we
must first learn to rule and govern, our-
selves, right here is work for us all if we
will but do it. Now if we will stndy for 
ourselves, and find out what is lacking,
then go to work and do it, that will bring
about a far better state of things. We will
make better wives and have kinder children.
We are told that man is the noblest work of

[Column 3]
God, if so, woman must be for she is a part
of man. Sisters, seek to live lives of
purity and virtue, that you may be useful
at home, ornaments in society and a benefit
to the human race. That will bring about
a better state of affairs. 
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
Kaysville, Feb. 21st, 1896.


THE CALIFORNIA CAMPAIGN.
	AT the general election next November,
the men of California will have the oppor-
tunity to vote upon an Amendment to the
State Constitution, which, if carried, will
give suffrage to the women on equal terms
with the men. The resolution to submit
this amendment to the voters was passed by
both Houses of the Legislature in March,
1895, and signed by the Governor. 
	A joint Campaign Committee composed
of the officers of the State Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Amendment Campaign As-
sociation, are turning all their energies to
the end that the Golden State may emerge
from that election a republic in fact as well
as in name. Committees for local and
State Press Work, Conventions, Petitions,
Finance, etc., are being formed, and the
work goes merrily on. The hearty respons-
es from the various counties to all the plans
of work launched by the Joint Campaign
Committee are so enthusiastic, and the
sympathies so manifestly enlisted in all
parts of the State, that all the Committee
feel very much encouraged.
	Under Dr. Elizabeth Sargent the petition
work is being pushed all over the State,
some four hundred books being in circula-
tion. She is also in charge of the literary
committee, and under her compilation a
newleaflet, ‘‘Woman Suffrage in Practice,”
has just been published and promises to do
a great work of enlightenment regarding
the actual workings of woman suffrage. 
	Lucy E. Anthony has been appointed
chairman of the Committee on Conventions.
The series of county conventions is to open
in the southern part of the State at San
Diego, April 6 and 7. Each is to hold dur-
ing two days, and a second one will open
simultaneously with the closing date of the
first in an adjoining county seat, with a
second manager, and with other speakers.
Miss Mary Hay and Harriet May Mills are to
be the managers, and Rev. Anna Shaw and
Elizabeth U. Yates the speakers. They
will gradually migrate toward the north
and middle of the State, arriving in the
vicinity of San Francisco about May, when
the great Woman's Congress of the Pacific
Slope will convene and discuss for one
week, three sessions daily, seventy address-
es in all, “Woman in Government,” in all
its bearings. This subject was chosen on
account of the growing interest manifested
in it by both men and women. As the
question of woman’s enfranchisement will
come before the voters at the November
election, and California will be called upon
to decide whether women shall share in the
rights and duties of government, there will
be a full exposition of the subject in all its
phases.
	Susan B. Anthony and Rev. Anna H.
Shaw our president and vice-president-at-
large, will both take part, the former
speaking on “Analysis of Government,”
and Rev. Anna Shaw on “Woman as She
is Said to Be and Woman as She Is.
	ELLEN C. SARGENT,
President California W. S. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made tor clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
[-]econdclass matter

SALT LAKE CITY  MARCH 15, AND APRIL, 1, 1896.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-sixth Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints will convene in the Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, at 10 o’clock on Saturday
morning, April 4th, 1896.
	The officers and members of the Church
genarally are cordially invited to attend
the meetings of the Conference.
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEORGR Q. CANNON,
	JOSEPH F. SMITH.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
this city on Friday, April 3, 1896, meetings
commencing at 10 a. m. 2 p. m. and 7;30
in the evening
	It is desirable that each Stake organiza-
tion of the Relief Society should be well
represented. Bishops and brethren are 
cordially invited to attend the meetings.
	ZINA D. H YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors’


[Column 1]

WOMEN IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS.

	THE Legislature has been fairly getting
down to work during the latter part of the
session and as the time draws near the close,
it is very apparent extra exertion is made
to complete the business, of these law
makers. We are very glad to be able to
say too that women have manifested more
real interest in legislative matters than at
first. It is true there is not much women
can do except in going before Committees,
but they can learn by listening, and observ-
ing how large bodies of men conduct their
affairs and not be entirely ignorant of the
rules and regulations of great assemblies,
should they be elected to fill some of these
official positions, when another legislature is
chosen, as they most likely will be; at least
it is in all events probable, that when the
members of the next legislature are nomi-
nated, women being eligible, some women
will doubtless receive nominations and if
so—the chances are will be elected.
	A great deal is or seems to be expected of
women‘when they have the franchise; and
yet there cannot be any very great change
at first, except the novelty of the fact.

[Column 2]
	There may not be quite so much smoke
in the public buildings but there will pos-
sibly be some little fire; and it is desirable
that some places should be cleaner and the
atmosphere purer in more ways than one.
The fact that women have the ballot can-
not make much difference with the affairs of
the State at first, but their influence ought
to be felt very soon and very materially in
the cities and towns. The recent move
made in Provo, in shutting up the Diamond
saloon, by the leading women who have
had practical experience in organized work
among their own sex, is a good illustration
of what women can accomplish when they
set about it in earnest, and the example of
the women of Provo ought to be followed
by other women in the cities and towns
where like evils exist,and are maintained to
the detriment of the community and es-
pecially the young and rising generation
and to the disgrace of all who desire to pro
mote good morals and the elevation of
society.
	Surely all good women will take these
matters seriously to heart and ponder them
just long enough to see the best way to ap-
ply a remedy, before the condition becomes
much more dangerous than it is at present.
The mothers will see these things quicker
than even the fathers, who have so far been
the guardians of the public welfare. Gen-
erally speaking women have quicker per-
ception, and a high moral sentiment pre-
dominates largely with them which will be
a good element to infuse into governmental
affairs.
	The experience of women who have been
interested in some of the bills pending be-
fore the Legislature, has been quite satis-
factory; members have been exceedingly
courteous in allowing them time before the
respective committees that have such bills
in charge, and of course the ladies appreci-
ate the spirit of fairness with which their
views have been considered. Women are
and necessarily must be greatly interested
in all educational matters, in all industrial
and reformatory work. It should not be
forgotton by those who have the selection
of persons to serve on all such Boards that
women should be included when these ap-
pointments are made, for all these classes of
work viz., educational, industrial, and re-
formatory.
	In England where the prevailing public
sentiment is not in favor of women’s work,
women have shown themselves very
efficient in places where men made no im-
pression at all upon the classes of people
who are a public expense. Their ways of
dealing with subjects are different and their
methods usually are more kindly and hu-
mane. These are a few of the things wo-
men should think about, and when they
think deeply they will be prepared to act,
and do their part of the humanitarian work
which comes into the provence of the state.
	The women of Utah are being watched
as no other women are at the present time,
and it should be their laudable ambition to
set an example even in political affairs, that
other states can point to with pride, and
seek to emulate.Women must not forget
there are duties and obligations attached to
citizenship, that they cannot afford to ig-
nore or to neglect.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is expected that at the Suffrage meet-
ing which will be held sometime during


Conference, there will be some interesting
talks by Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs.
Sarah A. Boyer, who attended the Wash.
ington Convention last winter; also by
other women who have been invited to
speak, among them Mrs H. C. Lewis of
Montana who is a noted lecturer and Lucy
A. Clark of Farmington Electa Bullock of
Provo, and Mrs.Wm. Stewart of this City
have been invited to make addresses, also
Mrs. E. Crane Watson of Parowan.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store situated
on Main St. No. 44, is in the sense its
name implies a woman’s enterprise, incor-
porated and carried on in the interest of the
women connected with the Relief Society
organization, it has had a hard struggle in
the past but the prospect at present is more
hopeful. Having succeeded in getting a
suitable location on the Main Street where
it is more convenient, and having some
special articles not handled by large es-
tablishments. Burial clothing for the
dead is made a specialty, millinery and
boys clothes etc. There will be an opening
of Millinery goods Wednesday and Thurs-
day, April 1st and 2nd, to which the public
are cordially invited. New goods and
latest styles, prices reasonable. Remember
the Woman’s Co-op, 44 Main Street.


SERICULTURE.

	IN view of the work we expect to ac-
complish during the coming year in estab-
lishing the silk industry in the State;
arrangements will be made for holding a
meeting of the ‘‘Utah Woman’s Silk As-
sociation during the conference rates, the
time and place will be published in the daily
papers.
MARGARET A. CAINE, Secretary.


OUR CHARACTER.

	ALLOW me to ask, is it true that our
character is the only thing or qualification
we take with us when we go to the next
state of existence; for we must go when
called either sooner or later, and then give
an account of what we have been doing and
what lessons we have learned in the lower
world. Again allow me to ask, what sort
of a character did our Father expect us to
obtain in such a world as this; a world of
disappointment, trials and perplexities of
every kind. Well let us reflect; it must be
for some wise purpose, for all things done
by our heavenly parent are done in wisdom
to prepare us for some other great event.
You will admit that some of our lessons
we learn from observation. This being the
case let us just notice the little one who is
taking his first lesson. His wants are
supplied when they are made known, and
sometimes it requires patience and fortitude
to wait for the care of the parent; and at
other times energy and force of character
are in need to save him when in danger;
and again caution and care, for we are told
that fire and water are good servants but
bad masters; then to be victorious we need
caution and care to become acquainted or
master of the elements. This is a very im-
portant lesson. So become acquainted
with each; both fire and water.
	Thus in childhood we begin to develop
the attributes of God our Father when we
obtain intelligence upon subjects of this
kind. But remember this is only a few of
the many qualities called into action as we


[Column 1]
advance in years, and in many instances it
affords us pleasure to learn the lessons,
especially when we are successful. In this
way are we not forming a character by lov-
ing intelligence on those subjects? We feel
it to be an enjoyment when our path, is
smooth aud no disappointment or vexation.
Yet we are not tested until we meet the
opposite; then the question arises, shall we
become despondent and discouraged because
our foot slipped and we had a fall, or shall
we have courage and try again. This will
try our energy and force of character in one
instance, and perhaps in another it may re-
quire patience aud fortitude until the storm
is passed, always hopeful in as much as we
can see that things might have been worse.
A feeling of thankfulness should be ours,
with courage to try again.
We find when contemplating the sub-
ject that we begin to form our character in
our youth, which, by proper care and
attention, we greatly enjoy for I believe the
human family are all lovers of intelligence,
and when governed by pure principles al-
ways, the result is true happiness. Yet
there is an opposite to show the contrast.
This seems neccesary that the good may be
properly appreciated.
But when the bad qualities predominate,
then we feel the need of a captain at the
helm to guide the ship, (if I may use that
term) to take us safely into port or our
heaven of rest. Now I would ask did not
our Father foresee this when he sent His
Son to earth to teach us this all important
lesson?
	Do you ask where this lesson is to form
our, character by? I will answer in the
5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of St. Mathews
called Christ’s sermon on the mount. Not,
only there but also in the Epistles of St.
Peter, St. James and St. John, besides those
of St. Paul.
	We find when we observe and practice
the lessons given by these ancient worthies,
our minds are enlightened by that good spirit
which our Savior promises to all who ob-
serve and obey the laws He gave; for he
said “In vain ye cry unto me Lord Lord
and do not the things that I say,”
	By observing these laws we become ac-
quainted with His character, and will feel
at home in His presence when He comes in
the clouds of heaven. My body, no doubt,
will be mouldering back to dust, but my
spirit will not be there. Ah no! St Paul
tells us “That which thou sowest is not
quickened except it die.” We know while
the wheat is in the ground a sprout shoots
up bearing more grain than the seed in the
ground. St. Peter in the 30th chapter, 17th
verse, says “Jesus was put to death in the
flesh, but quickened by the spirit by which
he went and preached to those who died
in the flood.” By this we see this quick-
ening power is felt in all humanity as well
as in vegetation. What a grand idea to
think of!
	This lesson was taught to St. Peter by
our Savior after His resurrection from the
dead, as you will read in his first Epistle
1st chapter 30th verse “According to His
abundant mercy He hath begotten us again
unto a lively hope by the resurrection of
Jesus Christ from the dead.” And in the
4th verse he says, ‘‘To an inheritance in-
corruptible, undefiled and that fadeth not
away reserved in heaven for you.” In
this chapter we learn how lively a hope he
has after seeing Jesus in his resurrected
form, and are told by him where he was

[Column 2]
and what he was doing the three days his-
body was in the tomb.
	The instruction given in this chapter is
very interesting and encouraging. In the
5th verse he speaks of the power of God un-
to salvation through faith ; and again in
the 7th verse he says “The trial of your
faith being much more precious than gold,
that perisheth not though it be tried by fire.”
And again in the 13th verse he says, “Gird
the loins of your mind, be sober and hope
to the end for the grace that is to be brought
you by the revelation of Jesus Christ,
as obedient children etc.
	He thus encourages love, saying in the
22nd verse “Seeing ye have purified your
souls in obeying the truth through the
spirit, with unfeigned love for the brethren
see that ye love one another with a pure
heart fervently etc.”
	The Apostle James speaks of love, pure
love etc. Not only so but only think in
the 1st chapter 2nd verse he says “My
brethren count it all joy when you fall into
divers temptations, knowing this, that the
trying of your faith worketh patience. But
let patience have her perfect work, that ye
may be perfect, wanting nothing.”
	Then speaks of wisdom saying “If one
of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God
who giveth to all men liberally and up-
braideth not, and it shall be given him.’
This, you remember, Joseph Smith our
Prophet read and resolved to follow; and
behold the consequence which followed,
while at prayer making his request of God.
But please read the 6th and 7th verses
which say “Let him ask in faith nothing
wavering; for he that wavereth is like a
wave of the sea, driven by the wind and
tossed.” He also says that a double
minded man is unstable in all his ways.
Now let us reflect. Can We observe all
these rules or laws, as you may choose to
call them. If we can do that, will we not
obtain a character we could not get without
this experience? But this problem is to
solve. Can we do it as it is here given?
I firmly believe that with the spirit our
Father gives to those who love Him, we
can do it: without it we could not. Let us
then try to be fit temples for the good spirit
to dwell in, nothing doubting, that His
Spirit will help us to do all that is necessary
to be done, is the faith of,
	ZIONS CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STATE SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	A MEETING of the State Suffrage As-
sociation will be held during the Conference
rates, the time and the place will be given
hereafter. Mrs. Richards and Boyer will
give reports of their attendance at the Na-
tional Convention, and addresses will be
given by some of the leading Suffragists of
the State.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SEC.


[Column 1]

THE NATION’S FLAG.

FORTY-FIFTH STAR INCLUDED.
	WE take pleasure in publishing the fol-
lowing letters which will be of interest to
our readers and should be a matter of re-
cord; they were first published in the
Deseret Evening News of March 19, 1896.
	UNITED STATES SENATE,
	Washington, D. C.,
	February 25, 1896.
Venerable Sir:
To you whose life has spanned the entire

[Column 2]
history of Utah’s settlement and growth, to
this hour to you the chief representative of
her Pioneers; and to you whose hand first
raised the emblem of our sublime country
in the Salt Lake valley, I have the honor
of transmitting, by the kindness of Hon.
Joseph F. Smith, one of the two first flags
made for the War Department of the United
States, containing forty-five stars. With
all who know you, I am thankful that you
have been permitted to see the day of
Utah’s glory, that your hands can touch
and your eyes behold the beauty of this en-
sign as it now recognizes the wondrous
achievement of a devoted people, blessed by
God and animated by patriotism, in their
struggles to make of a wilderness one of
the mightiest states of the Union.
Yours affectionately, 
	FRANK J. CANNON. 
	PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF, 
	Salt Lake City, Utah.  
	Following is President Woodruff’s re-
sponse:
	Hon. Frank J. Cannon, U. S. Senate.
Washington City D. C.:
	My dear Senator.—As a Pioneer who
brought President Young in my carriage
into the Great Salt Lake Valley the first
time he saw the Salt Lake and surrounding
country; and as one who assisted in plant-
ing the American flag on this then Mexican
soil, and who assisted President Young in
laying out Salt Lake City, with its broad
streets and sidewalks in this Great Ameri-
can dry, sandy desert, and being in my
ninetieth year of age, I accept this noble flag
for and in behalf of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (being President
of the same;) also in behalf of every citizen
of the State of Utah. The flag has been
spread to the breeze of both sea and land
for over 120 years, over the greatest free
Republican government ever established by
the God of heaven since the creation of the
world, which flag I hope the citizens of
Utah will ever maintain and make honor-
able. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when this noble flag is hoisted
as an emblem and ensign to all the inhabit-
ants of Utah in the capacity of a State
government. Forty-nine years of my life
have been spent in Utah.
	Yours truly,
	WILFORD WOODRUFF. 
	The foregoing letters have been withheld
for some time because of an intimation that
the design upon which the two flags referred
to had been made might again be changed
—several propositions to that effect having
been submitted to the government authori-
ties. As stated, however, the arrangement
agreed upon has been officially confirmed.
The other flag referred to by Senator Can-
non as one of the two first made with the
Utah star, is the property of Governor H.
M. Wells.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, Feb. 8, 1896, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, "O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet.” Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. President
Horne,‘‘I hope the Spirit will prompt you
to speak one after another,” Said she had


[Column 1]
thought during the last week, that the sis-
ters should humble themselves and pray for
our young people. We want every en-
nobling virtue taught here in Zion. Urged
the sisters to visit the Legislature, and show
them that we appreciate their labors in our
behalf. “I have been astonished to hear
such falsehoods as have been set afloat.
Judging each other, and many other things.
Have we any right to judge each other?
Did not the Savior say, ‘Judge not that ye
be riot judged?’’ Spoke of her recent
Patriarchal blessing, in which she said, she
was told that the Erring One would hurl
his shaft at her.Which had surely come to
pass. Prayed that the Spirit might rest in
great power on the sisters.
	Sister Barnes bore her testimony and
made a few remarks, also said “I always
thought the Lord chastised those whom he
loved. I often wonder why I had to bear
so much,” but felt assured that the Lord
loved her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, said the time
was so precious. The counsel of Sister
Horne was good. “I pray God to hasten
the day when righteousness will prevail
over all the earth. Our children are too
much indulged; let us be honest and truthful.
Let us examine our own souls, and see if
we speak against the Lord’s anointed.
Who are the Lord’s anointed? It is not
only the Priesthood but every one who has
been anointed.”
	A sister in the congregation said her hus-
band was on a mission and she must be
careful, she felt to stand firm to conviction.
She knew the Gospel was true. Prayed for
strength to stand fast in the same.
	Sister Hanhah Conklin bore her testimony,
and spoke of the healing power that is
among us.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of some
bills before the Legislature, and their inter-
est in the cause of women. “There is a bill
before that body now which will effect our
silk interest, and I hope some of the sisters
will make it a business to attend some of
the sessions.”
	Sister Rollinson, spoke of being healed
by the power of God.
	Counselor Clara Cannon, glad to hear the
good instructions given here to day by the
many testimonies that are given, we can
see that the power of God is with us as
much as ever it was. Spoke of her little
daughter being healed. “It is necessary to
teach our children faith, I feel strengthened
by the testimonies borne. Let us cultivate
the spiritual gifts more.”
	Sister J. C. Howe. Teach the children
to be obedient, and that they must make
sacrifices. Our Savior taught his disciples,
and told them to teach the multitude, how
they must pray continually to escape Satan.
Let us sustain and build up the church and
kingdom of God I want to encourage the
sisters to bear testimony. Spoke of a man
who had passed from earth, who was
not among the saints, but among the hon-
orable men of the earth. Spoke of those
who died without the Gospel and were
among the honorable men of the earth.
Sister Lawson spoke of prayer, as mani-
fested in her own home, and acknowledged
the goodness of God to her. Several other
sisters bore testimony to the healing power
in the church and related experiences.
	Sister Sarah Phelps always felt glad to
bear testimony of the truth of this work.
Spoke of a dream she had concerning an
angel passing through the streets of this

[Column 2]
city, who said that he took notes and knew
each family.
	President Horne made closing remarks
Meeting adjournd for two weeks. Sing
ing Doxology. Benediction Lydia D.
Alder.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING RECEPTION AND
SUFFRAGE.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Suffrage Society of this place is still
in a flourishing condition, most interesting
and instructive meetings being held month-
ly which are well attended, and now that
the main object in the organization of the
society has been obtained, the officers ex-
pect to map out a systematic educational
course to be pursued the following year.
	A Grand Wedding reception was given
under the auspices of the society on the
22nd ult., the honored parties being Joseph
F. McGregor and Isabella Durham, both
members of the society, who were married
at Manti on the 14 ult.The Seminary
Rooms were procured and decorated in
yellow and white, the decorations being
most artistic aiid tasteful. Bunting, appro-
priate mottoes and pictures covered the
walls. One large motto painted especially
for the occasion on yellow cloth, bore the
inscription, “Joy and Peace” while in the
center was a large bell representing the
wedding bell. Under this motto were
arranged seats for the bride and groom and
their parents. At the appointed hour, the
people having assembled in the north-east
rooms, the bride and groom introduced each
one separately into the south room, con-
gratulations and blessings being showered
upon the young couple in the mean time.
	An orchestra discoursed sweet music all
this time which added to the pleasure of the
occasion, and after all were comfortably
seated a very interesting program was
carried out, consisting of songs instrument-
al music, speeches sentiments etc. The roll
of the society was called, the majority re-
sponding with appropriate and well chosen
sentiments. At the close of these exercises
a delicious repast served in yellow and
white was partaken of, and apparently en-
joyed by all. The reception was a grand
success from beginning to end, for which
much credit is due to our worthy president
Mrs. E. Crane Watson, who with her aids
spared no means nor labor to make the
affair a success. A party was given in the
evening and thus closed a day long to be
remembered by our society. The groom
Joseph F. McGregor, starts for the South-
ern States next month, there to perform a
mission. We all wish him ‘‘God Speed.”
JULIA LYMAN.
Parowan March, 14, 1896.


RESOLUTIONS.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association, in Annual Convention assem-
bled, hereby declares and affirms:
	1.	That we demand suffrage for all
citizens of the United States, women and
men, upon reasonable conditions attainable
by all, as a right and not a privilege, under
a government professedly based upon the
consent of the governed.
	2.	That we rejoice in the admission of
Utah as a third woman suffrage State.

[Column 2]
	3.	That organization is the watchword
of the hour and our primary object: that
special attention should be given during
the coming year to the Territories of Arizona
Oklahoma and New Mexico before their
admission to statehood; and that we will
co-operate in support of the constitutional
amendments now pending in Idaho, Cali-
fornia and Nevada.
	4.	Thus we petition Congress and
Legislatures to secure to the women of this
Nation by every form of appropriate legis-
lation the full rights of citizenship guaran-
teed them under the U. S. Constitution.
	5.	That we hereby pledge to the women
of the District of Columbia our hearty sup-
port in their efforts to represent and protect
their own interests by the ballot.
	6.	That we congratulate the women of
Kentucky upon having recently secured the
election of four women and four men upon
the municipal board of education in the
city of Lexington.
	7.	That we seek the co-operation of all
organizations of men and women for the
promotion of political equality irrespective
of sex.
	8.	That this Association is non-sectarian,
being composed of persons of all shades of
religious opinions, and that it has no official
connection with the so-called “Woman’s
Bible,” or any theological publication.
	That we commend the actions of the Na-
tional Purity Association in endeavoring to
secure better protection for the youth of
our land.
	11.	That we demand State and National
legislation that mothers shall have equal
custody and control with fathers over their
minor children.
	13.	That the frightful massacre perpe-
trated by the authorities of Turkey upon
their unarmed and defenseless Armenian
subjects, and the systematic policy of ex-
termination of Christians throughout Asia-
Minor, calls for the intervention of united
Christendom, and we appeal to Congress to
take prompt and effective measures for stop-
ping these intolerable barbarities.
	14.—That we heartily sympathize with
the men and women of Cuba in their strug-
gle for independence, and with all oppressed
peoples who are trying to secure political
self-government.
	15.	That we request the Executive
Committee to petition the City Council of
Philadelphia to assign to the National
American and Pennsylvania and Phila-
delphia Woman Suffrage Association the
use of a room in old Independence Hall, on
the ground that we are seeking to carry out
the principles for which our fathers and
mothers suffered and died.
16.	That a page of the forthcoming re-
port of this annual meeting be specially de-
voted to memorial tablets of illustrious
members who have passed away during the
year 1895.
	17.	That we thank the newspapers of
Washington and of the country for the
space devoted to the proceedings of this
Convention.


MRS. A. C. RAYMOND has been elected
Town Clerk of Stowe, Vt.
	THE Woman’s Club of Omaha. Neb., 
will get out the Easter edition of the Omaha
Enterprise.
	FRANCE has just passed a married wo-
men’s property bill, giving wives a right to
their own earnings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.

	PRESS BULLETIN.
	WE have received from the Agricultual
College of Utah the Fourth Biennial Re-
port of the Board of Trustees to the Legis-
lative Assembly, and the Sixth Annual Re-
port of the Experiment Station.
	The Report gives an explicit statement of
tlie financial resources of the College, and
the relations of the national government
and of the State of Utah to the institution.
The function of the land-grant colleges is
plainly set forth, together with a summary
of the courses offered and the methods of
instruction pursued at the College.
	The book is beautifully illustrated with
half-tone engravings of the different build-
ings and rooms, and contains reproductions
of the pen drawings of students, showing
the regular work of the class room. The
pamphlet is an excellent souvenir to send to
your friends. It exhibits in a brief and
striking manner, the advantages of higher
and practical training—offered free in the
College to all qualified applicants.
	By sending a written request to the
Agricultural College, Logan, Utah, a copy
of the Report will be mailed to any address.


SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

Editor Exponent:
	PERHAPS you will be interested in the
change recently made in our Stake officers.
Sister Ruth Hatch, second counselor to
Sister Smith, has been residing in Utah
for some time, and has been uncertain about
her return, so she sent in her resignation at
our conference, Nov. 21, 1895. Sister
Mary J. West was chosen to fill her place,
and was sustained at the conference.
	During the past year Sister Smith and
her counselors have visited all the branches
of the Relief Society in the Stake. They
are doing well under the circumstances
Our faith and prayers are freely given in
behalf of those who stand at the head of the
Relief Society, and we try to be in readiness
to aid in any way we can.
	That the peace and blessing of the Lord
may attend you is the sincere desire of
your sister in the gospel.
DELLA FISH.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The New England Woman’s Press As-
sociation gave a charming reception to Mrs.
Harriet Prescott Spofford, at the Parker
House, Boston, on Thursday, March 12,
from 4 to 6 P. M. It was a very interest-
ing occasion,
	FROKEN MARIA FOLKESON. who is the
daughter of a Swedish M. P. and who
held the degree of candidate of medicine,
the other day took her degree as licentiate
of medicine at the Caroline Institute,
Stockholm. She is said to be the third
woman doctor in Sweden.
	The next public meeting of the Massa-
chusetts federation will be held in Water-
town on April 8, by invitation of the
Watertown Women’s Club. The subject
will be "Women in Business life," Miss
Abby J. McCutcheon, president of the
Norumbega Club of Charlestown, is chair-
man of the committee of arangements.
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson will present the
[-]ims and objects of the Woman's Business


League, and a woman physician and a wo-
man lawyer will present the case from their
points of view. Mrs. Sally Joy White will
speak upon “A Question in Economics,”
and Mrs. Elizabeth M. Gosse
on “Stumb-ling Blocks.” There will also be a paper
upon “The Independent Purse.,’ At the
last meeting of the Federation, held in
Chelsea, one thousand women were present
	IN 1818 was born on a little Island to the 
south east of Massachusetts, Maria Mitchell,
whose name stands at the head of the list
of American women in the world of Science.
At the age of sixteen she became the pupil
of her father who was regarded as an
astronomer of considerable merit; he built
an observatory on the Island (Nantucket)
and it was here that when only ninteen
Miss Mitchell discovered a telescopic comet
which was rewarded by a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. From this time on
her studies gradually brought her into the
notice of scientists, until in 1866 she was
appointed the Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College.
	Again at the very beginning of this cen-
tury there came into this world a woman
whose work began even before Queen
Victoria's. Harriett Martineau, whose
writings on political economy, and the con-
ditions of the laboring classes, proclaimed
her an earnest thinker.


JANET CRYSTAL SHELLEY.

	IT is with feelings of sincere regret that we
chronicle the death of our beloved Sister Janet
Crystal Shelley, who departed this life January I,
1896, of that dread disease diphtheria, aged 23
years and three months.
	Sister Janei was the beloved daughter of James
and Janet Crystal and the wife of Brother Ammon
Shelley, beloved by all within the circle of her ac-
quaintance. A true wife and mother and a faith-
ful friend. Her sudden departure was a shock to
the community, as she had been but a few days
prostrated by the loss of her little daughter
Geneva by the same disease, only a week
previous.
	May the Lord comfort the doubly bereaved hus-
band and the sorrowing parents, and give them
strength to say Father thy will be done, knowing
that she has gone where there is no sorrow nor
mourning, that she has filled her mission and
gone home.with honor. COM.


IN MEMORIAM.

SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS
SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS was born in
Carmarthan, Carmarthanshire South Wales, Jan-
uary 13th, 1833, was baptized by Benjamin Jones 
in the year 1848, emigrated to America, in 1850 
crossed the plains to Utah in 1852, was married to
William L. Perkins Oct. 27th, 1853, was the
mother of ten children of whom there are eight
living; she has thirty-five grand-children and one
great grand child.
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Pleasant Green Relief
Society, to the memory of our beloved Sarah
Jane Perkins who departed this life Feb. 15th,
1896 at 9 a. m. at Pleasant Green of pneumonia.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in his wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah Jane Perkins.
	Be it resolved that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of him who doeth all
things well--
	We do recognize in her death the severe loss of
a faithful energetic and efficient teacher in our
society a true friend to the needy a comforter in
the hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother
and a true Latter-day Saint, we also recognize in
her faithful labors and devotion to the cause of
Zion, an example worthy of the emulation of
each member of our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with her
bereaved husband William L. Perkins her
children and friends in the loss of a faithful wife,
a loving mother and sincere friend.

[Column 2]
  	Also that these resolutions be placed upon the
record of the Pleasant Green Relief Society and
be published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
that a copy be sent to the family of our departed
sister.

Dear, true sister, though her pathway,
	Has been strewn with many a thorn,
She has nobly won the victory
	To her rest she now has gone.

The love of God within her heart,
	Made all her duties light.
Now in far happier scenes she dwells,
	And walks in robes of white.

With those, who like her, kept the faith,
	The gospel light restored,
Having gained the victory over death,
	Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Oh happy thought! we too, may gain,
	The presence of our God,
If we by strict obedience here,
	"Hold fast the iron rod."

ALVIRA L. HIRT,
ANN C. BERTOSH,          Committee.
FRANCIS A. HARDMAN,
FANNY H. JENKINS,

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Sophia Franks Blood,
wife of Brother George Blood who died at her
residence in American Fork, Feb. 24th, 1896, after
a long and tedious illness, she having been sorely
afflicted for a number of years.
	Deceased was born in Lucestershire England,
April 2nd, 1829. Baptized by Brother Bailey at
Whittick 1848, was married to Brother Blood
1853, at Nottingham, and came to Utah in 1861.
Sister Blood has always been a faithful Latter-day
Saint, energetic in the performance of her duties.
She was a teacher in the Relief Society eleven
years filling the position as long as her health
would permit, she loved to attend her meetings
and especially to sing the songs of Zion, in which
she was very enthusiastic, Her husband, seven
children and a number of grandchildren are left
to mourn her loss.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call away our beloved sister to a higher sphere.
Therefore, be it resolved that we the officers and
members of the Relief Society while we deplore
the loss of a faithful and energetic worker
in the cause of God, we realize that she has gone,
to reap the reward promised to the faithful, and
that it would be well that we should emulate her
good works, and obtain with her a glorious resur-
rection with the just.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and earnestly
pray that God our Father will let his Holy Spirit
comfort and bless them in this their hour of trial
and bereavement. Resolved, that a copy of these
resolutions be sent to the bereaved family, one be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,and one be
placed on our records.
	MARY A. EVANS,
	ELLEN D. CLARKE,    } Committee.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


CONFERENCE OF THE N. A. W. S. A.

	(Continued)
REMARKS BY MRS. EMMA J. MCVICKER
	Delivered at the Assembly Hall, May 14,
1895.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I wish to say a few words to show why I
am in favor of woman's suffrage. I have
had a little experience in voting; have voted
twice in this Territory. On the first occas-
ion there was quite a celebration on the
part of nature as there was an earthquake
that evening. However my mind was not
at all disturbed as I did not experience any 
more difficulty in going to the polls to vote
than in going to the Post Office or Bank, or
in transacting any other business which
comes within the province of woman. My
conversion to woman’s suffrage was brought
about by my connection with charity
and reform work. I find that most of the
reform work in the world is carried on by
women, as men do not seem to have faith


[Column 1]
sufficient to undertake such things, and so
it devolves upon women to do the work of
reform.
	A Missionary of Alaska tells the story of
a very difficult mission that he wished to
undertake. He went to the Secretaries of
all the religious denominations in New
York, asking them to undertake the work,
and they all refused, saying that the work
was too difficult to undertake. He then
went to the Woman’s Board of the Presby-
terian Church, and they gladly assumed the
care of the Mission. Vast sums of money
are being entrusted to the care and manage-
ment of women in missionary work. They
have proved themselves honest in all their
relations, so proving their capacity to un-
dertake such matters in relation to Govern-
ment. I do not think we should have had
the occasion for the disgraceful exposures
that have been connected with our city and
county building, if the women had been on
the Board. Mrs. Kimball says that we
certainly should have had an elevator in
the building if the women had anything to
do with it. Men are so debased in their
ideas from their associations in many re-
spects, they cannot look at things from the
same standpoint as the women do when it
comes to questions of reform. For instance:
One of the members of our City Council
said that the more saloons we had in the
city, the better it was for the city. Now
no woman would have uttered such a senti-
ment as that. Then in one political cam-
paign, inducements were held out to the
lowest element of society that they might
have free scope if they would only vote for
a certain party. I do not think that will
happen when women get into politics. I
have heard that it is common talk on the
streets that the reason the baser element of
society is opposed to woman’s suffrage, is
that it fears that it will be driven out of
town.
	MRS. MILLARD OF WEBER COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I did not come to Salt Lake with any in-
tention of speaking—I simply represent
Weber County in the absence of our Presi.
dent, who is ill and could not come, so I
am not at all prepared to address you.
	I joined the Association when it was
first organized eight years ago. Nine
years ago, when I first came to Ogden,
women voted. The following year suffrage
was taken from us, so we organized the
Woman’s Suffrage Association, and with
that I have been identified ever since. Our
membership list of paid-up members is 150,
but we have 250 enrolled on our books.
I think you will pardon me when I say we
have 250 members in Weber County and
we have worked very hard.
	It was stated in the Constitutional Con-
vention that the first gun that was fired for
suffrage came from Weber County, the first
petition came from there, and we are here
now to ratify what our members have done
for us. Iam glad to have Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw with us. Ogden is to enter-
tain them to-morrow, and expects to show
them as much courtesy, respect and glory
as that city possibly can. I thank you.
(Applause.)
	MRS. CLARK OF DAVIS COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I can say that I am pleased indeed to
be numbered among those who are here to-
day to welcome to our Territory soon to be
a state, our pioneer general and her cour-

[Column 2]
teous co-worker, a general of the Revolu-
tionary army of peace. She sits here to-
day the peaceful general of a peaceful revo-
lution. Why? Because we would not lose
one soul for our cause, we would sooner re-
main disfranchised forever than to pay the
price of our liberty with the loss of one hu-
man oul; that is why we call it a peace-
ful army with these brave generals here to
lead us. Like the light of the sun which is
reflected on the tops of the Rocky Moun-
tains, is the beacon light shining from the
two bright stars of the west, and over the
tops of these mountains is another star ris-
ing and the sun in all its splendor will shine
o’er the Rockies restoring lost freedom to
Utah. (Applause.)
	This light is shining into Idaho, into
Oregon, into Nevada and California, also
New York as Miss Anthony told us yester
day; and we must trust the ships that are
sailing toward the light will not be wrecked
on the shoals, but will come safely into the
harbor of equal suffrage.
	Mrs. Clara Colby who many of you are ac-
quainted with by reading her paper, says
that a woman’s love and a wife’s devotion
has been the great pride and glory of all the
world. Poets have sung about it, orators
have exhausted their eloquence upon it,
history has painted it in all its glowing
colors yet some souls seem to think that
those qualities are diminished by legislative
enactment. Women’s sphere is as varied as
the hues of water and that always depends on
the vessel which holds it; sometimes it is like
a little stream bubbling up from some foun-
tain, sometimes like a little brook and again
as a mighty river bearing upon its bosom
the destinies of nations, and when the last
barrier to woman is removed and the ballot
is placed in her hands, then will she surely
be a help-mate to man.
	You are all aware that the Statehood
Banquet of Utah has been prepared and
every loyal citizen will be there waiting the
bridegroom he is not to be alone, but lean-
ing upon his arm will be a beautiful and
blushing bride clothed in the robs of equalty
carryin in her right hand the banner of jus-
tic and beneath the orange blossoms which
wreathe her noble brow will sparkle the
word ‘‘Liberty.” (Applause.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.

	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp wil open her school
of Obstetrics on Tuesday pril 21st.
	Because of the growing demand for
efficient nurses and competent accoucheurs,
the Doctor will devote more of her time to
this class of instruction. She has made
special prices to societies who are engaged
in philanthropic work.
	Those desiring to study should communi-
cate to Dr. Shipp at 18 Main St. either
personally or by letter.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
DR. MAGGIE C SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake. 
Office and re dence 24 W. North Temple
Telephone 383.

UNION PACIFIC SYSTEM

SPECIAL EXCURSION RATES

To Salt Lake City,

FOR CONFERENCE,

April 4th, 5th and 6th

VIA THE UNION PACIFIC.

Wyoming. 					

[Column 1]
	Wyoming.
FROM. 	     RATE.
Laramie.........$23.75
Carbon........... 19.60
Rawlins ......... 15.50
Rock Springs .. 9.75
Green River ... 8.95
Evanston ........ 4.60
Almy .............. 4.50
	Utah.
Wasatch ......... 4.10
Park City....... 2.50
Wanship ........ 2.50
Coalville......... 2.50
Echo............... 2.50
Morgan........... 2.25
Peterson......... 1.75
Uintah............ 1.50
Ogden ............ 1.50
Hooper........... 1.20
Syracuse Jct'n 1.10
Layton........... .75
Kaysville........ .60
Farmington ... .40
Lake Shore..... .40
Centerville...... .35
Woods Cross .. .25
Simpkins........ .25
Terminus........ 1.50
Tooele ............ 1.20
Erda .. ............ 1.10
Halfway house .95
Lake Point.... .80
Garfield ......... .75
Saltair Junc'n. .60
Chambers....... .50
Diamondville. 9.60
Cokeville........ 9.60
Idaho.
Montpelier.... 8.50
Soda Springs.. 7.00
Bancroft......... 7.00
American Falls 8.00
Minidoka....... 8.50
Shoshone........ 12.40
Bellevue......... 15.05
Hailey............ 15.25
Ketchum........ 15.90
Beaver Canyon 12.00
Dubois ........... 11.00
Market Lake.. 9.00
Idaho Falls.... 8.50
Blackfoot....... 7.40
Pocatello....... 7.00
McCammon ... 5.75
Downey ......... 5.00

[Column 2]
FROM. RATE.
Oxford ........... 4.25
Garner............ 4.25
Card............... 4.25
terr. Line.
Cannon.......... 4.00
Idaho.
Preston......... 4.25
Franklin....... 4.25
Utah.
Richmond...... 4.25
Smithfield...... 4.10
Logan............ 3.80
Mendon......... 3.55
Cache Junct'n 3.25
Calvin ............ 3.00
Collinston...... 2.75
Dewey........... 2.50
Honeyville.... 2.25
Brigham........ 2.00
Willard ......... 1.75
Hot Springs... 1.50
Harrisville ..... 1.50
Frisco........... 7.00
Milford ......... 6.00
Smith's Ranch 6.00
Black Rock... 5.75
Clear Lake..... 5.25
Oasis ..... ........ 4.50
Lemmington 3.90
Juab .............. 3.25
Nephi ............ 3.00
Mona ........... 2.50
Santaquin ...... 2.35
Payson ........... 2.35
Benjamin ....... 2.25
Spanish Fork 2.25
Springville..... 2.10
Provo............. 1.90
Lake View..... 1.70
Pleasant Gr've 1.50
Am. Fork...... 1.35
Lehi .............. 1.25
Lehi Junction 1.20
Draper........... .70
Sandy............. .50
Junction ......... .35
Lovendahl's... .30
Germania...... .25
Murray......... .25
Eureka........... 3.25
Ironton ......... 3.25
Silver City ..... 3.25
Mammoth ...... 3.25
Doremus........ 3.00
Rush Valley.. 2.50
Fairfield........ 2.25
Cedar Fort .... 1.95

Selling dates—From Odgen, Santa-
quin and points on Utah & Nevada
and Salt Lake & Western branches
and intermediate points, April 3rd to
6th, good returning until April 12th,
and from all other points April 2nd to
6th inclusive; good returning until
April 15th.
Special trains will be run from
Ogden and Juab and intermediate
points, and on the Utah & Nevada.
For time see posters.
D. E. BURLEY,
Gen'l Agent Pass Dept.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, the Rights of the Women of all Nations. VOL. 24.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1896. No. 22.


CONTENTS:
	The Art Of Raising Silk Worms—Margaret A.
Caine. Progress Of Women—Sarah Boyer.
Cedar City W. S. A. A Golden Wedding—F. E.
S. R. S. Report. Women Voters. Relief So-
ciety Conference—E. B. Wells. Mrs. Lillie R.
Pardee. Obituaries. In Memoriam. The
Farmer—M. E. K.
Editorial:—Passing Events. Minerva White
Snow. Editorial Notes.
Poetry: — The Utah Press Club. — Orielle.
Curtis. Leona.


[Column 1]
THE UTAH PRESS CLUB.
"Hic ordo, culpa careto, caeteris specimen esto."
As crystal clear as stainless glass,
	Bandusia’s laughing fount may play, 
And Aganippe’s waters pass
	From Stygian gloom to jocund day
More pure than sweet Castalia’s dews 
	The sparkling springs of Utah rise,
More bright than fountain’s rainbow hues,
	’Neath Italy’s enchanted skies.
If then, Pierian spring could fire
	The Grecian poet’s classic line,
"Far-sounding Aufidus” inspire
	The Sabine lyrist’s muse divine,
Much more should Utah’s children feel
	The fervid ray, the kindling glow,
When dawns’s light-sandaled feet reveal ,
	The day-spring o’er her peaks of snow.
And shall we say our mountains lack
	The storied eloquence of climes,
Where Romance throws its aureole back
	O’er half-seen, legendary times? .
And must our Western song be still,
	Because the Dryads, loved of yore, .
The Nymphs of forest, stream and hill,
	Drink of the mountain dew no more?
Oh, classic land of oil and wine!
	Embalm in song your glorious Past,
For Marathon fresh garlands twine,
	'Tis only buried fame, at last.
Let painters seek the pictured halls,
	Where Art o’er Rome’s dead grandeur reigns,
The light through tinted windows falls,
	To tell of wrong, and blood, and chains,
What though no Jupiter nor Zeus
	Holds revel on our Wahsatch heights?
Is Beauty dead? Shall we refuse
	A song for Truth and human rights?
What though no awful hero shades 
	Their muffled outlines dimly show?
The mantled myth Earth’s dawn pervades;
	More grandly clear is noon-tide’s glow.
They truly err, who falsely think
	That Helicon alone inspires
When quaffed o’er Falsehood’s moss grown brink
	Or warmed by Wars unhallowed fires,
Fair Fancy better loves the springs
	That gush from Truth’s exhaustless well,
To meet the light on rapturous wings, 
	And, Nature’s seer, her secrets tell.
[-]ear sisters of the Press Club, ours
	The heritage of rock and hill;
Here may we test our varying powers,
	Here teach our pens a nicer skill,

[Column 2]
Believe me, there is not one peak
	Whose wreath of clouds the west winds stir,
But has a voice sublime to speak,
	And waits for its interpreter.
For this is Nature’s secret crypt
	In flaming, red-hot forges wrought;
And Titan hands these valleys dipped,
	Responsive to the Master’s thought:
Here, in Cyclopean work-shops, slaved
	Blind forces, welding seam and joint;
These cliffs are tablet-leaves, engraved
	With iron pen and diamond point.
We know proud Albion’s hedge-rows green,
	Her primrose, lark and daffodil,
Familiar each New England scene, 	Her Merrimac and haunted mill:
We read the Ballads of the Farm,
	Of camp and mine, the pathos wild!
But who has sung of Utah’s charm,
	With gorge and canon deep defiled?
Nor fail we incident sublime,
	Heroic exploits, brave and bold:
Turn back the pictured book of time,
	And rank with, its achievements old,
The tale these earliest pifgrims tell
	Of the primeval solitude:—
The Salt Lake rolled with heavy swell,
	And wild birds screamed their welcome rude.
If this were all, how light our toil
	To question Nature’s sylvan ways,
And weave in lyric lines the spoil
	Of star lit nights and golden days
With retrospective glance, to climb
	The toil-won pinnacles of yore,
And place in filagree of rhyme
	The names of heroes gone before.
But these are times of keen unrest,
	When thought is rent with earth-quake throes:
Forboding, with tumultuous breast,
	The world Fate’s trembling foot-fall knows;
And clang of arms is in the air,
	And words with angry threatening rife;
The winds discordant murmurs bear;
	Earth, quivering, feels impending strife.
Columbia, in whose coronet,
	Our Utah shines, the latest star,
Watches, in far horizon yet,
	The gathering thunder-clouds of war:
Watches, but waits, her cities fair.
	Unguarded by the swelling sea—
Hope of the world, arise, make bare
	The sword that strikes for liberty!
That nation best secures repose
	That sees her mail-sheathed fleet increase;
Behind the yawning cannon grows
	The sweet, white-hearted flower of peace—
But there are better, nobler fields,
	Where heroes bloodless conquest gain,
Where Wrong to Right resistless yields,
	And errors changeful mask is vain.
These conquests spur our wakening powers:
	Problems, the nation’s.life that stir
And thrill the questioning world, are ours:
	Truth loves an ardent worshiper,
Sisters, too long our loitering hands.
	Frail baubles from their work delay,
As children, on the wet sea-sands
	Gather their tinted shells in play.

[Column 3]
We need no Cloelia, brave and strong,
	To breast the stream of public thought:.
Unquestioned heirs, to us belong;
	The rights by patriot Fathers bought 
With better fates, Hypatia now
	Her eager throng of listeners sees,
And here, again, with light-crowned brow, 
	Aspasia counsels Pericles.
Be brave: be strong for truth and right: 	The long, dark night is almost gone:
Behind the mists that dim the sight,
	Behold a brighter era dawn!
Though now fierce lightening’s lurid glare
	Shows phantom shapes of doubt and fear;
Our stars shall shine in clearer air,
	With woman man’s acknowledged peer.
ORIELLE CURTIS


THE ART OE RAISING SILK WORMS.

	THE first to be considered is the seed or
grain, the best is obtained from moths
issued from the first cocoons spun, by the
first worms hatched—these are always the
strongest, and a good start is of great im-
portance. The time of hatching is about
the middle of the moon just as the foliage
begins to come out on the trees. The eggs
should be brought from the low temperature
in which they have been kept to a moderate
warmth, gradually increasing till the
temperature is 75 or 80. All foreign
people wrap the seed carefully in paper and
then in a soft cloth and place inside their
jackets, next the skin, this method insures
an even-temperature, with sufficient
moisture to make them strong; they should
be examined daily, and as soon as they
show signs of hatching, spread out gently
and place a few fine mulberry leaves on
them, the little worms crawl on the leaves
and in this way can be moved to the hurdle,
(and the remaining eggs replaced until
they are hatched) spread the hurdles over
with straw ashes and cover with brown
paper. When they are provided with food
by cutting up the delicate young leaves and
sprinkling these over the young worms,
being careful never to touch the worm’s
with the hand. The hurdles containing
the small worms should be kept in an even
temperature and be protected from drafts,
and sudden changes, and direct rays of the
sun, and feed the worms three times a day.
The excrement of the worms must, be re-
moved with the fibrous parts of the leaves
after the nourishing parts are eaten, and the
worms kept perfectly clean, or they will be-
come sick this can best be done by placing
a few fresh leaves over them, and when the
worms come upon them, they can be lifted
to clean hurdles, and again supplied with
leaves,which are free from moisture.
The worm casts its skin four times dur-
ing its growth, before each change it ceases
to eat, and must be left undisturbed and
free from noise; just as soon as it comes out
of its skin it begins again to eat voraciously,
and increase rapidly in size after each cast-
ling. After the first casting the leaves need 
not be, cut, increase the strength and
quantity of the food daily;—keep in mind
that cleanliness, regularity in meals, even


ness in feeding day and night, are the most
essential points to bring perfect success.
	As the worms grow larger the noise of
their incessant eating is like rain upon the
trees. The worms breathe through little
orifices situated on each side near the legs,
for this reason they should never be allowed
to become crowded together but should be 
given more room as they grow larger.
	No one should attempt to raise worms in
a low marshy place, for in such places the
air is liable to become stagnant, and charged
with noxious vapor, this with all obnoxious
fumes, especially that from tobacco, are in-
jurious and often causes speedy death. Al-
so remember the insects are tender and
must be protected from sudden changes in
temperature, hot weather, being much 
worse than cold, if they are properly fed
they will stand the cold and give more silk,
as they eat much more. Great care should
be taken to have the leaves free from dust,
and dry, but not withered.
	The worms should be watched very
closely, those unable to shed their skins
must be helped out; at the first appearance
of sluggishness in a worm it should be
taken out and thrown away, for if they are
sick it will spread to others, if they are lazy
their cocoons will be worthless, and it is
better to give the room and attention to the 
remainder.
	As they approach maturity the worm be-
comes transparent, ceases to eat, raises and
moves his head from side to side, and 
should be at once provided with small
branches of brushwood or straw (or small
cornucopias made of paper) in which they
will ascend and begin to spin; they should
not be allowed to get close together. They
complete their cocoons in from four to six
days. The male and female cocoons are
easily distinguished, as the female is larger;
an equal number of each should be kept for
propagation—and the rest exposed to
sufficient heat to destroy life, and prevent
further progress of the moth; in this climate
if exposed to the scorching of the sun for
three days, their destruction becomes
effectual, and the cocoons are ready for 
reeling at any time.
	Those which have been reserved for the
production of seed, after the lapse of from
eleven to fifteen days the moth begins to 
push aside the fibers at one end of the
cocoon and crawl out. The sexes almost
immediately couple, the males are thrown
away and the impregnated females are
placed in a darkened apartment for four or
six days, and provided with paper on which
to deposit their eggs; each female produces
about 500 eggs, no food should be given.
Ants, mice, lizards, spiders, and other in-
sects are very fond of the fat tender worms,
and must be guarded against. Thunder
and lightning are very injurious to the 
worms, and it is necessary in stormy
weather to cover up the windows so they 
cannot see the lightning.
	To those who are beginners in the work
we would say—commence by raising a few,
watch them closely, and learn their habits;
by this you will gain experience and will 
not become discouraged.
	MARGARET A. CAINE.
Chairman Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


CLARA BARTON telegraphs that the field is
clear for the Red Cross relief work, without
Turkish obstruction or supervision. The
need is urgent beyond description. Thou-
sands are literally starving to death, having 
been robbed of food, clothing and shelter.


[Column 1]

PROGRESS OF WOMEN.

Progress of Woman since 1840, when
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited
	London.
	THE condition of the women of a nation
is an index of its civilization. Nearly all
nations have favored the domestic seclusion
of women, with the exception of those in
the upper strata of society; and those are
the only ones of which history records their
deeds. We have notable instances where
women have understood the ecenomic
financial and political situation of the nation
in which they were identified and have
been great factors in adjusting affairs in
general commensurate with the needs of
the people. It was a propitious omen of
the position which woman was destined to
hold in America, that the only one who
fully comprehended the scope in its entirety
of Columbus plans, and the intrinsic quali-
ties of his matchless genius, was the able
and gracious Queen of Castile, Isabella and
above all the luminaries of that age shares
the honors of his great achievement. She
arrayed her kingdom and her private for-
tunes behind the enthusiasm of this un-
popular man and we must accredit to her
sagacity and intuition, beyond any of the
nobles of her Court, and posterity pays
homage to her wisdom.
	In less than a century another woman,
Elizabeth of England, was the first Patro-
ness of the first permanent settlement of her
race upon their shores; a race which was
destined to dominate this northern Conti-
nent of the New World. These women
were notable and great in the sphere
in which the accident of birth placed them,
and they made the most of their position
being greatly gifted by nature.
	But the theory of the Civil Laws of
Continental Europe coming down from, the
Roman Code was based on the meekness
frailty and incapacity of the sex. The
husband having complete control of the
wife’s property and was able to dispose of it
at his own pleasure, without her knowledge
and consent These discriminations and in-
equalities with numerous others, were
brought to the notice of our friend and co-
laborer, Elizabeth Cady Stanton whose
birthday we celebrate, and to whose inspira-
tions must be given the precedent of what-
ever has been accomplished in the advance-
ment of woman’s legal and political enfran-
chisement.
	When we consider that it is but fifty-six
years ago when this talented lady, then a
bride of twenty-five, in company with her
husband, who was called as a Delegate to
theWorld’s Anti-slavery Convention held in
London in 1840, was not allowed to sit with
her husband and listen to the discussion of
the slave question, in company with many
eminent women who had gathered from all
parts of the world to answer to the call, but
on their arrival were told that as a conces-
sion they would be allowed to sit behind a
curtain where they could neither see nor be
seen. Imagine these talented ladies subject-
ed to this indignity! However it was the
means of agitating the minds of two of the
most notable among them, Lucretia Mott
and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who decided
that on their return to America they would
call a Woman’s Rights Convention, they,
at that time, had not thought of claiming
the ballot as one of the rights belonging to
women. But this convention was not called
till eight years later in 1848 and a fine

[Column 2]
assemblage of intelligent educated men and
women attended it. The great question to
the women was how to formulate their
grievance. A number of resolutions were
framed, the 9th written and defended by E.
Cady Stanton, was received at first with al-
most universal opposition.
	Resolved, that is the duty of the women
of America to secure to themselves the right
to the Election franchise. This was the
first expression of this kind in this country.
	The majority of the woman movement
including Lucretia Mott, could not see the
consistency of such a radical change. After
a long discussion the resolution was passed
by a small majority. This one woman
whose 80th birthday we celebrate, was the
only one who in 1848 had the courage to
ask for the ballot, and today is working as
assiduously as ever in various lines of work
in the interest and elevation of her sex, and 
has sons and daughters to aid her, and who
are proud of their illustrious mother’s life’s
work. We find greater changes since that
time than we have gained in hundreds of
years before, but that other bright woman
did [-]ot see the need of a wider sphere of
usefulness, and the wall of custom and pre-
judice was so strong that few dared to ven-
ture in such an insurrection. Women
accepted the idea of their intellectual in-
equality. But the idea of equal rights was
in the air, the wail of the slave and her
clanking fetters appealed to everybody.
Women spoke in public in defence of free-
dom for the slave such a thing had never
been heard of. Some of the abolitionists
forgot the slave in their endeavor to silence
the women.
	The Church and the Press heaped re-
proches on women who had so far departed
from their true sphere as to speak in politics
but Whittier wrote at that time “When
woman’s heart is breaking, shall woman’s
voice be hushed?” I do not think it possi-
that the masses of the women of to-day can
ever realize at what price free speech, and
to speak in public at all, has been gained.
At that time Mt. Holyoke Seminary
was declared open to women. The right to
education and every other good thing was
to be gained. The idea that their sphere
was at home was like a band of steel in
society.
	But the spinning wheel and the loom had
been displaced by machinery and something
else had to take their place. A wholesome
discontent in women was urged, that they
might reach out after better things. But
every new step was a trial and a conflict.
Men printers left when women took the
type. About this time Harriet Hosmer
sought by the study of anatomy, to prepare
herself for the medical profession, but was
repelled as out of her sphere and indelicate;
and not a medical college in all New Eng-
land or the United States would admit her,
notwithstanding she was aided by her
father’s great wealth and influence. Finally
Dr. McDowell in St. Louis admitted her.
	When the models for the statue of
Charles Sumner were made, although that
of Annie Whiting, in the judgment of the
Committee, took precedence of all the others,
they refused her the contract for the statue
when they knew that it was the work of a
woman.
	In Massachusetts where properly quali-
fied persons were allowed to practice law,
the Supreme Court decided that a woman
was not a person, and a special act of the
[Continued on Page 143.]


[Continued from Page 138.]
legislature had to be passed before Miss
Lelie Robinson could be admitted to the
bar. Fifty years ago the legal injustice
heaped upon women was appalling. A
wife by her marriage lost all rights to any
personal property she might have previously
had. If a woman wrote a book the copy-
right of the same belonged to her husband
and not to her. No married mother could
have any right to her child, and in most
States of the Union this is the law to-day.
But the laws as to the personal and property
rights of women have been greatly changed
and improved; and we are very grateful to
the men who have wrought this change.
The last half century has gained for women
the rights to the highest education and en-
trance to all the professions and occupations
or nearly so where competency is establish- 
ed.
	A little over fifty years ago the first
woman medical student began her course of
study and now countless thousands are
scattered over the world pursuing their
profession with most signal success. There
are not less than eleven law schools in
the United States open to women, and
twenty-five States and Territories admit
women to the bar. As to the rest we can-
not say they are excluded, for as a matter
of fact, they have not applied except in
Virginia, which for three years has stead-
fastly refused to grant admission to a lady
lawyer. There are two hundred women
lawyers in the United States to-day, nine of
whom are admitted to practice before the
Supreme Court. Every known profession,
occupation and trade seems now open to
women in some part of the civilized world.
She can be a Minister, Doctor, Lawyer,
Professor, Lecturer, Journalist, Mechanic,
Architect, Sculptor, Painter, Merchant and
in fact, whatever she chooses to do or un-
dertake, she is permitted. In view of this
entire revolution in her social status, should
she not logically possess the same civil and
legal rights, and be subject to the same civil
and legal liabilities? There are twenty-five
out of a total of forty-eight States and
Territories of our union where women en-
joy some form of Suffrage. In Canada
women can vote for all Municipal officers
throughout the length and breadth of the
dominion, although no married women
can vote except in Manitoba and British
Columbia. The women of all the Colonesi
of Great Britian, from Cape Colony to New
Zealand enjoy Municipal Suffrage. In Ice-
land as in Wyoming and Colorado and also in
the Isle of Man, women enjoy full and equal
suffrage with men. The age of consent which
in many states has been placed at the age of
10 years has been raised by very recent legis-
lation to 14 and 16, and the first woman
legislator in Colorado presented a bill
raising it to 18 years.
For the better protection of women under
arrest, police matrons have been placed in
the station houses of some of our American
cities, to take charge of those women during
their detention. Laws have been made
forbidding women to work near dangerous
machinery as formerly; laws requiring shop
keepers to provide seats for saleswomen.
A married woman is now protected from
the violence of her husband by the legal
right given her to prosecute him for assaults
upon her. The old theory of the husband’s
right to chastise hi's wife has disappeared
from English and American laws. The


[Column 1]
Codes of Continental Europe fail to do justice
to woman in respect to her personal protec-
tion in matters of divorce, for certain
criminal offences where the privileges of
the man are greater than those of the wo-
man, making it less easy for her than for him
to obtain a divorce.
	In every state of the Union, except
Tennessee, at the present time the wife’s
property is so far secured for her that it can-
not be taken for her husband’s debts, and if
she survives him, it is to be her sole and
separate property But a majority of the
states go farther than this and give to the
wife the sole ownership and control of her
property as if she were unmarried.
	In Europe the widow has not full power
to be guardian of her child; she must act
under the advice of a special council appoint-
ed by the father in his will, and the widow
cannot discipline her children without the
concurrence of the nearest relatives on the
father’s side. So we can plainly see that we
are far in advance of those olden Countries
in many respects, and one must attribute
this in a great degree to the progressive-
ness of our women; continually presenting
their claims before its Legislature until
men saw the justice of their claims and
yielded to their demands, and women are
making the most of their advantages.
	The relative numerical positions of men
and women as investors in building and
loan associations, is as one to four, that is
25 per cent of the building and loan shares
of stock in the Eastern, and Middle Western
States are owned by women. In New
Jersey every fourth shareholder is a woman.
In a teachers building and loan association
in New York City, ninety per cent of the
members were women earning their own
money, and many of them built several
houses to rent through the association.
The tremendous financial power which
women might become in this country, they
have never as yet realized. It is therefore
an exploded theory that women who have
property to manage must be provided with
guardians. I do not mean that she is a
more honest or wiser financier than man,
but simply that she is, a more careful one.
Hence we find, though prejudice of race and
religion, have gone and the disqualification
of sex is disappearing by the free opening
up of all professions to meritorious appli-
cants, “That Custom is Law” and recog-
nized as one of the fundamental maxims
in ancient jurisprudence. But the deform-
ities and failures which resulted from their
efforts gave rise to a new Code, based on
principles of justice and equality, But this
achievement has not been instantaneous,
woman has not obtained, a place in the pro-
fessions by demanding her rights, as Shy-
lock contended for his pound of flesh, but like
Portia by unfolding the harmony and the
correlation of legal and equitable claims.
Merit has no sex; whoever can work and
wait to win is sure to achieve both recogni-
tion and success, and in the uplifting of her
sex she follows a more divine star of ambi-
tion than that which sat at St. Helena.
	The married women and mothers must
ever constitute a great majority of any
population and it is right that it should be
so, but, what they are thinking and doing,
is the thinking and doing of a nation;
especially is this true of a Republic. Poli-
tics, I know, are a bye-word, but if those
home women could be enthused with the
love of country as the mothers of the Revo-
lution learned it, do you not think it would
be improving to the politicians? Our great-

[Column 2]
ness lies in our opportunity; born of condi-
tions and events which seem inevitable and
for which we deserve little credit. How
we shall use our gifts is for us to decide.
This Nineteenth Century is sweeping
grandly on to its close, carrying with it
mighty movements that can no more be
staid by the hand of man, than the rushing
waters of the Niagara or the tide of the
ocean. Of woman’s mission in this on-
ward march, we would repeat the divine
command “Give her of the fruit of her
hands, and let her own works praise her
within the gates.” Equality between the
sexes is not in the equal portion of the
same work, but the equality of their whole
contribution to the welfare of the race.
Hail then Twentieth Centnry! I see a
race of men Strong, brave and true because
the mothers of men are free. Go to thy
grave oh Nineteenth Century, a century that
will stand out for all time as an era that
buried slavery and ushered in liberty, that
enfranchised the colored race and women;
and when the historian shall make up the
records of the 19th Century, such men as
Lincoln, Sumner, William Loyd Garrison,
Garfield and Grant; a century that had its
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone,
Lucretia Mott. Susan B. Anthony, Frances
Willard, Clara Barton and many others who
have adorned and enobled the world, who
are assisting in the work they have so
magnanimously devoted their lives to, and
may posterity to the latest generation
cherish their memory as we do, that it may
be a guiding star to make the world better,
happier, more virtuous and prosperous.
	SARAH BOYER.
	(Writtten for Mrs. Stanton’s birthday.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEONA.
	BY JAMES G. CLARK. 

LEONA, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we’ve waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky, 
That my spirit may break from its prison, and
	try
	Its voice in an infinite song.
Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o’er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
	Those windows which look on the kingdom of
	light
	That borders the river of death. 
And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a moring lit land; 
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
    	And I heard the low lull as they broke at their
	feet
Who walked on the beautiful strand.
	And I wondered why spirits could cling,
 	To their clay with a struggle and sigh,
When life’s purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.
Leona, come close to my bed,
    And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrilled me in days that are
	fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the
	dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.
We have lived from the cold world apart
    	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o’erthrow when the slanderer’s
	dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
 	I was dearer than ever to you.
I thank the great Father for this,
    	That our love is not lavished in vain;
	Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that
	we kiss
Never shrink at the shadow of pain.
By the light of this faith am I taught
    	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and
	fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has
	caught
The gleam of Eternity’s sun.
Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
	The twilight advances through woodland and
	wold,
    	And the dews are beginning to weep.
The moon’s silver hair lies uncurled
    	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
	The sunset’s red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o’er the plains of the
	world,
 And shall rise in a limitless way.
O! Come not in tears to my tomb,
    	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
	And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
  	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.
Yet deeply those memories burn
 	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being
	would yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home, to return,
    	And visit the home of its birth.
’Twould even be pleasant to stay 
   	 And walk by your side to the last:

[Column 2]
But the land-breeze of Heaven is beginning to 
	play—
Life-shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
    	And its tumult is hushed in the past.
Leona, good-by; should the grief
    	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome 
	is brief,
 O'er lowland and river to me.


CEDAR CITY W. S. A.

	ENCLOSED please find Minutes of Anni-
versary Meeting of W. S. A., held in Cedar
City Mar. 18th, 1896. The meeting was
held in the Tabernacle at 7.30 p. m.
	Opened by singing “The Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Watson. The song entitled “Colum-
bia’s Daughter" was sung by the members.
	County President E. C. Watson made
opening remarks which were very interest-
ing; she said that as this was the first
anniversary of this auxiliary branch, she
could see that we had made vast improve-
ment, and judging from the vast congrega-
tion present, allayed much prejudice. She
urged them not to disband, but to keep on
in the good work. She said that in the
augmentation of their liberty women had
not neglected their home duties, but that
they had become better fitted to perform
them.
	This was followed by a song and chorus
entitled "Utah the Gem of the Union,”
which was beautifully rendered by Miss
Maud Lunt.
	“The New Star” was read by Mrs W. J.
McBurney which contained choice contribu-
tions from the members. A guitar duet
was beautifully rendered by Mrs. Joyce
Palmer and Miss Kate Palmer. Next was
a recitation entitled “Women and Wine”
by President Charlotte Walker.
	This was followed by a select reading
“Twelve Reasons why a Woman should
Vote” by Mrs. Rose Lunt.
	A ten minutes speech was given by Mrs.
John Parry, who handled the subject of
Equal Suffrage in an able manner. Mrs.
Florence Webster rendered the vocal solo
Longfellow’s “Rainy Day’ in excellent
style. A highly interesting essay on the
“Topics of the Day” was read by Mrs.
Sarah Chatterley. This was followed by
a solo and chorus “Equal Rights Banner”
by Mrs. V. Uric. County President E. C.
Watson earnestly solicited a full attendance
next meeting as they wished to elect new
officers. Benediction by Bishop William
Corey.
	Minutes of W. S. A. held in Cedar City,
March 23, 1896, 
	Meeting called to order by President C.
Walker. A song entitled “The Battle
Hymn of the Republic” was then sung.
	Prayer was then offered by Mr. John V.
Adams. “Columbia’s Daughters” was 
then sung. A few remarks were then
made by President Charlotte Walker. She
spoke of the good done by the association. 
	She was followed by County President E.
C.Watson, who spoke of the vast improve- 
ment of the association.
	Officers were then nominated. Mrs.
Charlotte Walker was re-elected President.
Miss Sadie Wilkinson was chosen as Vice-
President, and Mrs. Caroline Ahlstrom as
Second Vice-Pres. Miss Maggie Stewart


was elected as Secretary and Treasurer.
	An Executive Committee of five was
elected.
	Closing remarks were made by County
President, after which several new members
added their names to the list.
	MAGGIE STEWART, Sec.
	CHARLOTTE WALKER, Pres.
	NELLIE HOUCHEN, Cor. Sec


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	AT the foot of a gigantic mountain lies
the pastoral village of Pleasant Grove,
which numbers among its inhabitants two
of our aged pioneers. One of these, Broth-
er Hanson Walker, who with others pio-
neered the way to this barren waste and
has assisted to make it the Utah of to-day,
celebrated his Golden Wedding, on Friday,
April 10th, 1896. His children and his
children's children with relatives and friends
poured in upon him and his good wife
Elizabeth; they have lived happily together
for fifty years Brother Henson Walker is
76 years old and his wife, Elizabeth
Foutz Walker, is in her 69th year. They
have had seven children, thirty-nine grand-
children and nine great grand-children, but
not all were present as some live far from
here, while others have passed to the “Great
Beyond.” A goodly number were present
as were also other children of Brother Walk-
er’s, his posterity numbering one hundred
and eleven. Among the guests present
was the mother of Mrs Walker, Sister
Margaret Foutz, who has reached the ad-
vanced age of ninety-five years, and is yet
quite active.
	The evening was spent in relating old
time scenes; carrying the aged couple back
to the time when they together started out
on the then untried journey of wedded life,
witth songs and recitations from the young-
er members, and congratulations and wish-
es for many happy returns of their wedding
day from all present, the time was pleasant-
ly passed, not forgetting the bountiful re-
past that all present did justice to. They
are old residents of this place, and their
many friends join in congratulating them
on the happy advent of their 50th wedding
day.
	F.   E.  S.


R.S. REPORT.

		OAKLEY, SUMMIT CO.
Editor Exponent:
	SEEING reports from other branches of
the Relief Society in your valuable paper,
we thought you would like to hear from us.
Although we are new beginners, we have
excellent meetings considering the ward is
so scattered, and we are so few in number.
	Our society was organized June 10, 1895.
Our president, Sister Eliza West is very
energetic and persevering; her assistants
and all the members seem to be willing to
do all in their power to carry the work
along. The members have all donated
liberally and we are storing up wheat as we
were counseled to do.
	ELIZA WEST, President,
	ELLA M. HORTON, Ass’t. Sec.


THE death of Sister Willmirth East,
President Relief Society St. Joseph Stake,
has been casually alluded to in the Deseret 
News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
								
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei.
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL, 15, 1896.


PASSING EVENTS.

	THE first Legislature of the State of
Utah has closed its session and the bills 
have many of them been signed by the
Governor and are, or soon will be, in force.
For the most part the work of the Legis-
lators has been satisfactorily done, and the
Governor has proved himself capable of
maintaining his own views when he felt he
was right, instead of yielding to persuasion
or other influences however powerful.
Every one who is at all conscientious must
admire this quality in an executive officer.
The women of Utah have good reason to
admire the Governor’s method of appoint-
ing women on all Boards of institutions
where there was a vacancy, or where women
could possibly serve 
	The Woman's Journal of Boston soon
noted the fact of the appointment of Mrs.
Harriet F. Emerson and Dr. Martha Hughes
Cannon on the Board of the Deaf and
Dumb Institute. Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
who was nominated last year for Super- 
intendent of Public Instruction, but was
not eligible on account of women not being
legally permitted to vote or be voted for,
has been made one of the Board of Regents 
of the University, and is admirably fitted 
for the position; a woman of rare capabili-
ties, a teacher of many years standing, a
practical educator and progressive in all her
work and attainments.
	The Agricultural College has two women
on its Board of officers, Mrs. Sarah B.
Goodwin and Mrs. Emily S. Richards, the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society has women also, Mrs. Margaret B. 
Salisbury and Bertha G. Bamberger, Mrs.
Mary A. Hendrickson, Logan, and Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton, Provo and when we
come to the Utah Silk Commission there are
five, the entire Board, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Isabella E. Bennett, Mrs. Mar-
garet A. Caine, Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury
and Mary A. Cazier.
	It is a matter of congratulation to the
women of Utah that the Legislature passed
the silk bill. Two of the women on the
silk commission are practical sericulterists
and have done much primitive work. The
industry is decidedly woman’s work, and
will, if methods now anticipated are carried
out, provide light employment for hundreds
of women and children.


THE annual meeting of the State Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs, will be held in
this city, at Unity Hall, May 20 and 21.
A fine program is being prepared.


MINERVA WHITE SNOW.

	THE news of the unexpected demise of
Sister Minerva White Snow, wife of Apos-
tle Erastus Snow, was quite a shock to
many of her friends and to her relatives in
this City. Sister Snow died April 1, 1896,
at Manti, where she has been living for
several years past, having been called there
at the time of the dedication of the Manti
Temple, and has been laboring therein al-
most continuously. 
	Sister Snow was greatly beloved for her
many excellent qualities, which endeared
her to all those with whom she was asso-
ciated. Faithful and true in every depart-
ment of life, a loving wife, an affectionate
mother, a sympathetic friend, a wise coun-
selor, full of integrity and abounding in
faith and good works, amiable, tender, con-
siderate of the feelings of others and full of
charity. Sister Snow was one among the
first women to enter into the order of plural
marriage, and had the courage of her
convictions through all the trials and perse-
cutions the Saints have had to endure in
sustaining the principle.
	Born and reared in New England of Puri-
tan forefathers, she possessed the true char-
acteristics and habits that fitted her to be-
come a woman of influence in the best
sense; always gracious and winning, hum-
ble as a child, teaching by example lessons
of patience and gentleness.
	Sister Snow has filled many honorable
positions of usefulness; she was the first
Stake President of the Relief Society of St.
George Stake, and filled the place for sever-
al years, until Brother Snow was called to
Mexico. There she was unceasing in her
labors of love and after their return to this
City, she was chosen by Sister M. Isabella
Horne to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Sister Phoebe W. Woodruff in the
General Retrenchment Association. After
having been appointed to labor in the Manti
Temple, she was chosen by Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde as her Counselor in the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, and
also to act as an aid in the Y. L. M. I. A.
of that Stake. In every position and calling
she labored diligently to do good and to in-
spire others with the same noble desires and
aspirations. She has gone to her rest fully
prepared, although death was to her so un-
expected. She remarked that it was only
a cold, she would soon be better; in a note
addressed to the writer on March 30th, she
spoke of being sick with a cold, and in less
than forty-eight hours after her spirit had
taken its flight.
	‘‘After the burden and heat of the day
	The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way
	A sleep in the robe of white.”


EDITORLIAL NOTES

	ON Monday April 13th, at a regular
meeting of the Reaper’s Club, Miss Sarah
J. Elliott of Moab, Grand County, (and for-
merly of New York City) entertained the
Club with an extremely interesting account
of the Red Cross Society, and of its Nation-
al President in this country, Miss Clara
Barton, who is now in Turkey whither she
went with relief stores for the persecuted
and afflicted Armenians. Miss Elliott was
with Miss Barton at Johnstown after the
terrible catastrophe there, working for the
sufferers. She is a very talented woman,
wonderfully gifted with language, easy and


graceful in her manner, has a charming
presence, and is gifted with a musical voice;
altogether her address was most pleasing
and instructive, and was greatly appreciated
by all who had the opportunity of listening.
	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
has just recently closed, was a very impor-
tant one, and was largely attended from all
the adjacent Stakes of Zion. President
Wilford Woodruff spoke several times duing
the three days sessions, and his voice was
particularly clear, and he could be heard in
all parts of the large Tabernacle, as well as
any of the younger brethren and much
better than some of them. President Wood
ruff is undoubtedly the most wonderful
man of his age in this country; though he
i now in his ninetieth year—he is in
possession of a goodly degree of health and
streugth and seems likely to continue so for
years to come. The whole tenor of the
preaching during the Conference was that
there should be greater union and obedience
to the laws and commandments of the
Church. On the last afternoon a Manifesto
was read and voted upon by the congrega-
tion assembled, which set forth very clearly
the duties and requirements of the Church
officers and members, and what kind of
people the Latter-day Saints should be in
order to obtain the blessings promised to
them, and that they might fulfill what was
expected of them in building up Zion. All
those who spoke seemed inspired with the
spirit of their calling, to teach and instruct
the people in the ways of the Lord.


WOMEN VOTERS.

	As it will be necessary that all women
should know their political status under the
law in regard to qualifications for voting,
we thought it would be well to republish
the following article from one of the lead-
ing daily papers of this City, and we hope
the women of the state will take due
notice of the facts herein contained.—ED.
	It is estimated that there are in round
numbers fifty thousand women of voting
age in the State. But all of them are not
voters. Uncertainty as to the number of
Utah women of foreign birth and over 21
years of age, who are not yet citizens, adds
to the complexity of the political situation.
Some authorities place the number as high
as ten thousand, but, at the best, figuring
on the subject is merely guess-work, as
there are no statistics on which to base an
estimate.
	The women who are not naturalized and
therefore not electors, constitute two classes,
one being composed of those who may be
naturalized during the coming campaign,
and the other of those who must make
declarations of intention to become citizens,
and then wait two years before first citizen-
ship papers can be issued to them.
	All women of foreign nativity who are or
have been married to citizens, either native
born or naturalized, are themselves citizens,
the citizenship of the husband having had
the effect of naturalizing the wife, by virtue
of an act of Congress. All children of for-
eign birth, both male and female, who
were residents of the United States and
under 21 years of age at the time of the
naturalization of their parent, are entitled
to vote, if now 21.
	Those who arrived in the United States
before they were 18 years of age, and


whose parents have not been naturalized,
may become citizens at any time after reach-
ing the age of 21, without filing a declara-
tion of intention, provided that at the time
of applying for a certificate the applicant
has resided in this country five years.
	The women who, though of the required
age, cannot vote this year are those of 
foreign birth who are not and have not 
been married to citizens, or who have not
been naturalized by the naturalization of 
their parents, while the children were
minors; or who did not arrive in this 
country before they were 18 and five years
prior to the last date on which aliens can be
naturalized this year in time to vote at the 
November election. This date will occur
ninety days before election, as one of the 
qualifications of a voter, under the Con-
stitution, is citizenship for ninety days.
	It will thus be seen that a foreign wo-
man who arrived in the United States after
she had reached the age of 18, and who has
not been made a citizen by virtue of mar-
riage or the naturalization of a parent, will
be required, before she can become a quali-
fied elector, to file a declaration of intention
with a clerk of a court, and wait two years
thereafter for the issuance of a certificate of 
citizenship.
	It is believed that the women who will 
be unable to qualify themselves for voting
this year, number several thousand, but as 
before stated, no one can at present do 
more than guess at the proportion they form
of the total number of women of the State.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held Friday, April 3, 1896, in
the Assembly Hall in this City, morning
session opening at 10 a. m., President Zina
D.H. Young presiding. On the Stand
were, of the general officers, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Isabella Horne,
and E. B. Wells, and of the Presidents of
Stake organizations, Mary A. T. Hyde,
Susan Grant, Elizabeth Fox, Mary Pitch-
forth, Jane S. Coleman, Ann C. Woodbury
and several others.
	Conference opened with the hymn “Lord
we come before thee now” Prof. C. J
Thomas leading the singing. Prayer by
Elder C. J. Thomas; singing. Roll called
Minutes read and approved; Statistical and
Financial report read and accepted. Presi-
dent Young was the first speaker, she urged 
the sisters to exercise faith and seek diligent-
ly for the spirit of God, that we might have
his blessings upon all our efforts. Referred
to the death of three of our good sisters,
who now lay awaiting burial; our beloved
Minerva W. Snow, Lucy Smith and Sister
Maeser, who were safe now beyond the
reach of pain or sorrow, but whose loss we
deeply felt. Sister Young spoke upon the
return of many wayward and indifferent
ones to the fold, and realized that love and
union would accomplish much in winning
back those who had turned away. Mrs.
Betsy Brower presented a bust of President
Young to President, Zina D. H. Young, for
and in behalf of Mrs. Almira Merrill and
the Richmond Relief Society Sister Young
very graciously acknowledged this token of
the love and esteem of the sisters of Rich-
mond, and paid a beautiful tribute to Brig-
ham Young and to Sister Eliza R. Snow,
referring to the beautiful hymn “O, my
Father” and spoke reverently of the ever-
lasting priesthood; said we should be firm as

[Column 2]
rocks in our integrity, and invoked the
blessing of God upon the congregation.
	Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne Stake,
Zina Y. Card. Alberta, Canada, Elizabeth
Fox, President Oneida Stake, Annie W.
Larsen, President Emery Stake. L. M.
Hart, Bear Lake Stake, Annie D. Bowring
Box Elder Stake, Margaret Goodman, St.
Joseph Stake, Ann C. Woodbury, Presi-
dent St. George Stake, Mary A. Anderson,
Bannock Stake, Mary Pitchforth, Juab
Stake, Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, each gave
a brief and interesting report. The sub-
jects treated upon were, exemplary home
life, cultivation of faith, spirit of prayer,
practical work of the Society, its uplifting
tendency, the wonderful success attending
the efforts of the sisters in building halls,
storing grain and visiting the sick, the
needy and unfortunate; the blessings of the
Lord upon the Society as a whole in all the
world, and the expectations to be realized
in the great future. Several of those who
spoke alluded pathetically to the recent
death of Sister Minerva W. Snow who had
endeared herself to the hearts of all those
who knew her. All the sisters spoke of
the celebration of Sister Zina D. H. Young’s
birthday anniversary, and the excellent
spirit manifested in the exercises of the day.
Sister M. A. Hyde spoke powerfully in the
gift of tongues, and Sister Zina gave the
interpretation. The congregation sang,
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Bene-
diction by Elder Henry W. Hales of
Deseret, and meeting adjourned until 2
p. m.

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” The first
speaker was Sister Marilla M. Daniels, of
Provo, who bore an excellent testimony of
the truth, aud spoke of the many virtues of
Sister Minerva who had just passed away;
thought it a beautiful thing to live up-
rightly, referred to many scenes in the past.
	Annie E. Ward , Counselor in Parowan
Stake and H. E. Hoyt, Counselor Kanab
Stake gave good reports, similar to those
made in the morning.
	Sister S. M. Kimball, after some pre-
liminary remarks, spoke very interestingly
upon the Kindergarten, thought this was a
work which should be encouraged by the
Relief Society; it was not sufficiently under-
stood, but the principles of that system
really lay at the foundation of the child’s
education morally and spiritually; expected
there would be an article published in the
Deseret Evening News on the following
day which would give a clear idea of the
Kindergarten influence and work. The Pri-
mary Association lays the foundation for
the Mutual Improvement Association
which is for mental and spiritual growth.
The speaker thought the young women did
not realize the importance of the work of
the Relief Society, nor could they until
they came into contact with it. She felt
the Relief Society called into exercise all
the faculties of our nature, and it was ex-
pected the young women of to-day would
be more intellectual and more spiritual be-
cause they had better preparation than those
who had laid the foundation of this Society,
who had not been privileged with similar ad-
vantages It was no small mission and no
small calling, but a responsibility; and no
blessing ever came from shirking a re-
sponsibility; but a blessing comes with it,

[Column 3]
if properly fulfilled; it is a position of use-
fulness and of honor, and it is necessary
that younger women should come forward
and assist in the Relief Society. Hannah
E. Crosby Secretary of Relief Society of
Panguitch Stake, Lucy S. Cordon Counsel-
or Cache Stake, Ruth Pack Counselor
Summit Stake, Susan Grant, President
Davis Stake and M. Isabella Horne Presi
dent Salt Lake Stake, each reported the
work in their respective organizations;
thought there was a decided improvement
in spiritual work, and urged the sisters to
increased diligence in all duties whether of
a temporal or charitable nature. Sister
Horne spoke urgently upon the Kindergar-
ten movement and recommended the branch-
es in the Salt Lake Stake to use their
influence in helping to establish these schools;
referred to the signs of the times and the
threatening aspect of affairs in our own and
other nations.
	President B. W. Smith, spoke of hearing
Joseph Smith the Prophet preach when she
was a very young woman; she remembered
at one time he said in speaking of the ten
tribes “Perchance they are not on this
globe; it may be they are broken off and
gone rolling away into space, and when
some great shock is given to the earth, it
may return the portion broken away and
the ten tribes with it.” “The Prophet also
taught us the order of prayer and the of Re-
lief Society. In the Seventeenth Ward, since
Sister Zina has talked of the young sisters
joining, we have sent out missionaries to
try and induce them to come into our Relief
Society and help us with the work, and it
has been a good thing for us; we have
succeeded very well.”
	President Jane S. Richards gave an
excellent report of Weber Stake and of the
harmony existing there between the
Bishops and the Relief Society, but realized
that as they were in a railroad town where
so many lines joined, they had many more
poor and destitute people than even Salt
Lake City had, and consequently their treas-
ury was always heavily drained, and they
had to work very hard to do what was
really essential; the sisters were willing
but they could not do everything. Sis-
ter Richards stated she had joined the Relief
Society in Nauvoo when she was twenty;
her daughter and daughters-in-law had join-
ed when young; she believed it to be quite
the proper thing to do. At one time when
she presided in Ogden City, she persuaded
80 of the young girls to unite with the
Relief Society and they stayed with it. She
did not have a program, but speaking, testi-
monies and experiences; thought we should
teach our children concerning faith and vir-
tue, honesty and reverence for the aged;
they are the ones who have laid the founda-
tion. Said many other good things and
made some apt illustrations.
Sister Zina asked the sisters to sing a
verse or two of the hymn “How firm a
foundation” etc. two verses were ren-
dered, Sister Mary P. Silver leading. Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, spoke of the great honor
and blessing of the Relief Society, and
praised the whole work of these diligent
and faithful mothers; thought it the duty of
the younger women to come to their aid
and help in this praiseworthy cause while
there was an opportunity to learn of those
who had the experience; spoke plainly up-
on the need of competent help for the sick
and afflicted in the various wards and places,
and thought the Relief Society should take


[Column 1]
this matter into consideration and see that
settlements were provided with educated
midwives and nurses, skilled in the pro-
fession.
	President Young made a few closing re-
marks in which she spoke of the wheat and
stated that President Woodruff had said in
regard to it, that he had no right to take a
handful of that wheat and dispose of it—
the wheat was held in sacred trust for a day
of scarcity and famine.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow.” Prayer by Bishop Wm. R.
Allen, Draper. Conference adjourned un-
til 7.30 p. m.
	A meeting of Presidents of Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society or their
representatives, for special instructions was
held in the Assembly Hall at the close of
the afternoon services.
	EVENING SESSION.—Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Two of the Apostles
were on the Stand, Franklin D. Richards
and Heber J. Grant, also C. W. Penrose of
the Presidency of Salt Lake Stake, and
Sisters Jane S. Richards, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt and others, Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father” and
prayer was offered by Apostle H. J. Grant,
singing “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Helena Madsen President of
Relief Society at Gunnison was the first
speaker; they have 160 members in the
Society, and a very good average attendance.
She referred to the store they had establish-
ed which was a source of income and a great
advantage in many ways to them; they had
also built a very nice hall, commenced fif-
teen years ago; it is called the Relief Society
Hall. They rent it for various purposes,
the City Council meet there, it is used for
theaters and concerts, and sometimes for
district school purposes. It is quite a large
building, and brings in some means to the
Society. Sister Madsen told some very
interesting things in relation to their man-
agement.
	Sister Libbie Noall, who returned last
fall from the Sandwich Islands, gave a
most interesting description of her labors in
the Relief Society among the native sisters
on those islands. The first Relief Society
organized over there was in 1875—since
that time there have been sixty branches,
some have died out, and others have been
organized. At the present time there are 39;
some of these are necessarily small as the
people are scattered. These sisters are as
willing to make sacrifices as we are at home
in Zion; they are full of faith and zeal in
their religion, and are naturally gifted in
speaking. They learn quickly and do
fancy work of various kinds. They are
fond of their meetings and will walk long
distances to attend religious services, were
very willing to donate to all public purposes.
Sister Noall gave a vivid idea of the condi-
tions on those far away islands, and her
missionary labors there have certainly been
a success.
	Mary Hall, Counselor to the President of
the Relief Society Malad Stake, gave a
brief report of their work and referred to
the diligence of the sisters in their labors
spiritual and temporal, they had recently
made one hundred yards of carpet for the
Logan Temple. The sisters some of them
would travel long distances to attend Con-
ference.
	Elder C. W. Penrose in his remarks
alluded to the ideas which had prevailed
formerly in regard to the position of women

[Column 2]
in our Church. Spoke definitely upon
priesthood and the relative position of men
and women, their dependence upon each
other, and the harmony which should exist;
wives should be helpmeets to their hus-
bands. The speaker rejoiced that the wo-
men of Utah had equal political rights with
men, was not fearful of their abusing the
privilege, wanted to see them use the fran-
chise to maintain right, and stand for justice
and righteousness until evil should be over-
come. He was glad to be with those
honored women whom he had known so
many years, and who had a right to preside
over all the Relief Society in all its branch-
es throughout all lands.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a
short time on the importance of younger
women coming forward and helping in the
work of the Relief Society, and getting the
practical benefit of the experience of the old-
er sisters, who are so well acquainted with
the work from the beginning of the or-
ganization. Counseled those present to
persuade the young women to join the Re-
lief Society and attend the meetings; felt it
was the higher spiritual work and that
other organizations had grown out of it.
	Apostle H. J. Grant, in his address, paid
a high tribute to the Relief Society and its
work, and spoke encouragingly of the suf-
frage; said he had always believed it to be
the privilege of women to have the fran-
chise, and had never taken any part in the
opposition; thought women would in some
respects set an example for men; had real-
ized how strong a mother's influence could
be; his own life had been greatly influenced
by his mother, her precepts, her example,
her influence had kept him from straying
into by and forbidden paths; he owed all to
his mother; he paid a glowing tribute to
woman.
	Apostle F. D. Richards felt complimented
to be in the Sister's Conference; thought
Sister Young had done well to have the
day before the General Conference, appreci-
ated the changed condition, that we
had liberty and were now a state, and in
that state women had equal rights with
men. Thought the sisters had, in going
out into the world, helped to turn back the
tide of opposition that had been arrayed
against this people formerly. Referred to
the wonderful work being accomplished
now by the missionaries. Many Elders
were being sent out, calls were coming in
for more and more. Urged the sisters to
keep their records of meetings, the records
that had been kept of the sayings of Joseph
the prophet and of Brigham Young, how
precious they were now; there is nothing
will tell so well what has been done as the
records. Related some incidents to illus-
trate these statements. The speaker referred
with apparently great satisfaction to the
three intermountain states which had equal
suffrage, and to the growth and influence
of the National Relief Society, felt the
name indicated its increased strength and
power. The world was watching the pro-
gress made by this great body of women.
and we should prove ourselves a strength
and power to help other women. Brother
Richards spoke beautifully upon faith and
the gifts of the gospel, and especially the
gift of healing, and of administering to the
sick, and quoted the Savior's words, “These
signs shall follow them that believe.”
Encouraged the sisters to exercise faith
and to administer to the sick and afflicted,
and rebuke disease in the name of Jesus,
“The Lord will magnify His people, His

[Column 3]
work will prosper in the land, but we mus
do our part, be humble and faithful, and
we will not be lacking in any good thing.”
Brother Richards prophesied good con-
cerning Zion and the work of the Latter
days, and blest the congregation. Con-
ference closed with singing, ‘ We thank
Thee O, God for a prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop C. A. Madsen. Adjourn-
ed until next October.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS LILLIE R. PARDEE.
   
	THE Ohio papers were proud to publish
Mrs. Pardee as Secretary of the first Sen-
ate of our our new State, and we take
pleasure in republishing the following
notice, and in expressing our own apprecia-
tion of the ability and capability of the lady
in the public positions she has so honorably
and acceptably filled. We have also a per-
sonal friendship for Mrs. Pardee; aside from
her public services she possesses many lov-
able and endearing qualities of head and
heart. Ed.
	AN OHIO GIRL IS SECRETARY OF THE 
	UTAH STATE SENATE.
“MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE, of Salt Lake
City, who has been recently elected to the
secretaryship of the Senate of the new
State of Utah, was born in September, 1864.
She is a native of Ohio and was graduat-
ed from Buchtel College, where she received
the highest honors ever given to a graduate
of that college. Until her marriage four
years ago, she was professor of Greek and
Latin and instructor in the gymnasium of
the same college. 
	Her maiden name was Lillie R. Moore.
James D. Pardee, an attorney of Salt Lake
City is her husband, and they have a
daughter 3 years old.
	Mrs. Pardee is a type of the younger
generation of Gentile women. She was
brought into prominence during the prepar-
ation for statehood through her gifts as an
orator. She has a fine stage presence, a
rich sonorous voice of great carrying power,
which has had special training under Dr.
Curry, of the Boston school of expression.
	By reason of her earnest work in the
Woman’s Republican League, she was ap-
pointed secretary of the county committee,
and afterwards was nominated by the
county convention for a seat in the Senate
of the new state. Owing to the decision of
the Utah Supreme Court against the legal
right of women to vote at the recent elec-
tion, Mrs. Pardee voluntarily withdrew her
name from the ticket in order not to endanger
the interests of her party in the legislature.
	The president of the Senate in recom-
mending Mrs. Pardee for secretary of the
Senate, said “I recommend Mrs Pardee by
reason of her fitness for the place. I con-
sider her work in the committee rooms
fully up to the standard of any man’s’'
	In private life Mrs. Pardee is womanly
and unassuming in manner. She has un-
doubtedly a career of brilliance and useful-
ness bofore her.”


OBITUARIES.

	To the memory of our beloved sister Sophia
Hansen, who died at American Fork Jan. 18, 1896.
	Karen Sophia Hansen was born June 26. 1841
in Denmark. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints when a child. Emigrated to
Utah 1856, crossing the plains with ox teams.
Joined the Relief Society in its early days.


[Column 1]
	She was the mother of seven children, three of
whom died in their infancy. She was an active
member of the Relief Society, having filled the
office of teacher for 15 years.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
take away our beloved sister to a higher sphere,
therefore, be it 
	Resolved that we, the members of the Relief
Society do esteem her faithfulness and diligence,
and we express an earnest hope that this great
bereavement may be over-ruled for good and,
	Resolved that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children who are deprived
of the care of the beloved mother.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family also that it be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and one be entered on the
records of the Society.
ELLEN D. CLARKE 		}
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,	} COMMITTEE.
CHARLOTTE SHELLEY. 	}
	SISTER SUSANNAH M. MORTENSEN was born in
Brigham City, May 12th, 1857. Died January 29th
1896, after an illness of one month. She was a
faithful worker in the different associations from
her childhood, having held responsible positions
in the Sunday School and Primary Association. At
the time of her death she held the position of
teacher and treasurer of the Relief Society, Coun-
selor to the President of the Scandinavian Society
of Brigham City, and also one of the aids in the
Primary Association.
	Sister Mortensen was beloved by ail who knew
her; she was a friend to the poor, ever ready to
minister to their wants in any possible way. It
was a pleasure to visit her home for all was peace
and love. For several years previous to the death
of her father, she lived with him. She was untiring
in her care and devotion, sacrificing much for his
comfort. She leaves a husband and three child-
ren besides a host of relatives and friends to
mourn her departure.
	Since God in his infinite wisdom and mercy has
seen fit to remove to another sphere of action, our
respected and beloved sister, Susannah M. Mor-
tensen,
	We her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, a
devoted wife, a wise mother; and filled all the
different positions to which she was called in an
exemplary manner.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to her bereaved family.
	Resolved that her memory shall ever be held
in loving remembrance by her fellow laborers.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon record in the Second Ward Relief
Society, a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent
and a copy sent to her family.
	CHARLOTTE BODEN, President
	ROXEY L. BLACKBURN, Sec.
	LUNA SQUIRS			}
	ALICE N. ROSENBAUM,	} Committee.

	DIED at Lyman, Fremont Co, Idaho. March
15th, 1896, after an illness of five days.
	Brighamina Christenson, beloved wife of
Neils Christenson, and daughter of Mary Ann
and Christen Christenson, born in Denmark,
Jan. 13, 1867, came to Utah 1878, married Jan. 22,
1885, in the Logan Temple. She was an
exemplary woman, patient, loving and kind, be-
ing a teacher in the Relief Society, and Second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. which callings she 
	honorably fulfilled.
She lived a pure life and died in full fellow-
ship and faith, hoping to have a glorious ressurec-
tion. 

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	The following resolutions were gotten up by
the Relief Society in loving remembrance of
Sister Brighamina Christenson.
	Resolved, that we honor and cherish her many
virtues, peace and charity covered her as a mantle
and beamed from her countenance. We
acknowledge the hand of God in our loss. Her
charms endeared her to us all and we shall miss
her in our meetings. We tender our sympathy
to the bereaved husband and parents.
	Resolved that a copy of this resolution be
placed on file in our Record book and a copy be
sent to the Exponent for publication, and a copy
sent to her husband. E.A.
Deseret News, Please copy.
	Rest in peace dear Mina,
Your work is nobly done,
	Life’s battle has been fought,
Eternal peace well won.

[Column 2]
Although we miss you sadly,
	Since your parting gives us pain;
We are reconciled in knowing,
	Our loss is heaven’s gain. 
O! Yes, we will think of thee,
	For many years to come;
Thy smiling face we ne’er shall see,
	For God has called thee home.
ELIZABETH ATKINSON, President.
ANNA OLSEN,		}
HANNAH ROBISON, 	}Committee.
SUSAN E. THOMPSON}


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

WIMLEY—At the residence of Jessie W. Fox,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, at 5. 45 p. m.
Jan. 17,1896, of general debility, alter a lingering
illness of less than two months. Sister Amanda
Melviria Wimley, daughter of Samuel and Eliza-
beth Brooks Baker, of Pennsylvania.
	Sister Wimley was born in Philadelphia, Pa.,
July 3,1820, and was in her 76th year at the time
of her death. She embraced the Gospel under
tne instructions and ministrations of the prophet
Joseph Smith, in Philadelphia, Pa, at an early day.
She was married to Mr. Wm. Wimley in Phila-
delphia and bore to him a son and a daughter;
the latter survives her mother and resides at their
old home. Mr. Wimley, finding his wife to be a
firm adherent to the faith, and that she could not
be happy away from the Saints, furnished her
means in the spring of 1870, and she came to this
city, where she has resided ever since. She for-
sook a home of luxury and joined her destiny
with this people. She has ever been true to the
principles she espoused. Numbers of Elders can
testify of her hospitality, while all the Saints who
knew her cannot fail to revere her memory.

ANOTHER noble life is spent,
	Another life.of sacrifice.
A life that knew what sorrow meant,
	Yet walked in ways of righteousness. 
Who can tell of the lonely years
	Through which she	passed with patient trust:
Ah! Who can tell her hopes and fears?
	And yet we know that God is just.
But we can tell that grief, and pain
	Did fit her for her after life;
And too we know hopes are not vain
	For she has gone where hopes are rife.
Where faith and hope, and love reach out
	To gather all within the fold
Until each heart is linked about,
	With bands more pure than purest gold. -
Rest, noble spirit, rest be thine,
	Until thy soul is satisfied
And then come forth in joy divine
	To dwell with beings sanctified.
Then thou shalt stand like Joseph's sheaf 
	To which his brothers all did bend;
Where none shall question thy belief,
	And joys supernal never end.
	RUTH M. FOX.


LOVELL BROTHERS & Co., New York,
have in press a novel by a new writer, en-
titled “The Woman and the World,” that
promises to command more than ordinary
attention. The story is well conceived,
forcibly written, and abounds in sage re-
flections on the social disorders of the age,
interwoven in the web of romance. It is
the work of a writer who is in close touch
with the world, and is rich in hits at the
political and social conditions that prevail
in American society, with its feverish race
for wealth and position, and defiance of in-
dividual rights. Love, intrigue, marriage
and divorce are its chief themes, with oc-
casional comment levelled at political
corruption, the money power and its men-
ace.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FARMER.

	ALLOW me to ask, how is the farmer
appreciated to-day? I well remember
about 65 years ago, I looked upon the far-
mer as the most independent man of the
human family; not only so, but the most
God like.
	The farmer’s care was to feed and clothe
and provide for those under his care: not
only his family, but his horses and cattle
as well as the feathered tribe must be
sheltered and preserved from the stormy
weather. His whole time and attention
was given in looking after the living beings.
All his care was in looking after that which
had life and seeing that it was in a progres-
sive state. This to me was charming, and
I shall never forget the impression made
upon my mind at that time.
	Now I am 77 years of age, but when I
look back upon those days I feel the same
impression, and ask myself is not this God
like.
	But during the last 50 years and more,
we have been so much captivated by the
arts and sciences, yes, perfectly charmed by
them, that we gaze with wonder and amaze-
ment and ask what comes next. Yes, the
photographs taken so quickly and when
colored they look so like, a child might say,
wait a moment and they will speak to us.
	And again the machinery propelled by
steam and electricity, is also wonderful
and do not we enjoy a ride on the cars when
propelled by electricity? Yes indeed and
I sometimes ask when will that person
come who will navigate the air as Isaiah
saw, when he, in speaking of the gathering
of Isreal, he said "They came like doves to
their windows.” Will not this remind us

[Column 2]
that all this is preparing us for a still great-
er event which is prophecied will come in
its own time.
	Now when contemplating all this, are we
not in danger of saying surely the gods
have come down to earth. But stop a mo-
ment, for those who read the scriptures
and believe the prophecies can see dearly
all this is in the program, and much more.
	Then let us be awake to our duty and
learn our lessons, giving strict heed to the
laws given by our Lord and Master Jesus,
the Savior of mankind. Then nothing
seems wonderful to us, any more than it
did to the disciples of Jesus, when they saw
Him turn water into wine, or call the ele-
ments together which served to increase the
loaves and fishes.
	Please read the Acts of the Apostles, and
we find that in being obedient to the laws
given by the Savior, they had this same
spirit given to them and by it they did the
same things. You may ask who can do
this to-day, and if not why? I will say I
know of those who have given strict heed
to those laws or lessons as you may choose
to call them, and they never fail to get a
knowledge for themselves, yet must not
boast of it, as Jesus often cautioned them
saying, “See thou tellest no man of it.”
Then the tempter will show us what he
can do and thus confuse our minds. Ac-
cordingly we need wisdom as King Solo-
mon said, “In all thy gettings get wisdom.
Strength and power are hers etc.” Is not
this life a school and is there not an oppo.
site in all things? We were sent to this
school to learn both; accordingly we need
wisdom to give each its proper value and
also its proper place. This is the faith of,
	M. E. K.


DR. MAGGIE C SHIPP
WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 24 W. North Temple
Telephone 383

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

	DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp will open her school
of Obstetrics on Tuesday April 21st.
Because of the growing demand for
efficient nurses and competent accoucheurs,
the Doctor will devote more of her time to
this class of instruction. She has made
special prices to societies who are engaged
in philanthropic work.
Those desiring to study should communi-
cate to Dr. Shipp at 18 Main St. either
personally or by letter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.  

