VOL. 24	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, AND 15, 1896.	No. 15-16.


CONTENTS:

	Tribute To The Governor—L. S. D. Madame
D’Arblay—I. C. B. “O, Success, What a
Triumph?"—J. M. L. Before It Was Too Late—
Ida Haag. Letters To The Governor And Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Semi-monthly Meeting—L. D.
Alder. Sketch Of Travels—R. H. Doolan. R. S.
Reports. In Memoriam. Mary P. Teasdale—Un
Ermano. Obituary—Elizabeth W. Condie.

	EDITORIAL:—The Inauguration.

	POETRY:—Dying, Yet Living—Ellis R. Shipp.
The Ruined Cathedral At Macao, China. Life
Temporal, Eternal—O. J. Wilson. The Heart
Has An Eye—Irene Ackerman.


DYING, YET LIVING.

As fadeth the beautiful daylight,
	And night’s dusky shadows appear,
In the haze of the soft mellow twilight
	A holier presence is near.
We sum up the days’ weighty problems,
	Con over each word, deed and thought.
We scan the result of our actions, 
	Whether good or ill they have wrought.
But the strife and worry of living,
	Stern trials, temptation and care,
Are lost in divine forgiving
	And the hallowing chalice of prayer.

After seasons of storm-cloud and sunshine
	Close the year with unerring pace,
The traces cf pleasure or trial
	Are written on mind, heart and face
Again we pause for a reckoning—
	Contrition, and solemn resolve;
Sweet conscience silently beckoning
	While many new plans we evolve,
That will chasten, uplift and inspire,
	To feelings more pure and divine,
Exalt and ennoble desire,
	And lead to a life more sublime.

And when mortal strivings are ended,
	And we wait the blissful beyond;
May all of our hopes be uplifted
	By sacred and holier bond.
A faith in immortal existence,
	A hope that illumines the soul,
A promise of endless progression
	To a perfect and sanctified goal.
May freedom of mortal endurance,
	The wealth of research and toil,
Receive then the master's assurance,
	“They yet bloom on Heavenly soil.”
						E. R. SHIPP.
New Year’s, 1896.


THE RUINED CATHEDRAL AT
MACAO, CHINA.
BY MARGHERITA ARLINA HAMM.
REMNANTS of what have once been mighty walls,
Of tessellated halls,
Where trod
The myriad ministers and worshipers of God,
Of golden portals and immortal spires
And altars lit by ever-burning fires,
What are you now, stones sacred and sublime,
But a loose page torn from the book of time?
Never again shall nave and transept hear the
	strain
Of the Magnificat’s glad refrain,


Nor rise upon the evening breeze
The Vesper’s spirit melodies.
Where once they rose in air
The Pagan tomtoms blare,
And in the place of Latin prayer and song,
Are heard the heathen cymbal and the gong.

Thy halls are filled with spectres shadowy gray
By night and day.
The Jesuit Father General, sweet and sad,
The deathless poet of the Lusiad,
Bishops and brothers, princes, padres, peers,
Soldiers in armor, merchants, buccaneers
Throng every spot
Contrasting what has been with what is not.

Yet, O Cathedral, though thy days are fled
And thou art but a phantom from the dead
Thy work shall live until the final day 
And grow alway,
In wiser measures then the past has wrought,
In better manners, nobler laws and thought.
The years to come thine epitaph shall find
In the new race of Godlike human kind.
—From the Chicago "Inter-Ocean," Dec. 23, 1894.


TRIBUTE TO THE GOVERNOR.

HEBER M. WELLS.
	COULD the Pilgrim Fathers have cast
their eye down the avenue of time and seen
the multitudes of human souls that have
followed them across the waters into our
beautiful land of freedom, pressing on from
frontier to frontier, forming one state after
another, until they are linked together, in
one long chain of union that reaches from
one end of the great American Continent to
the other, they would have fought harder,
had it been possible in their determination
to win the battle of Liberty and Freedom
they won so successfully. Throughout the
whole length and breadth of our broad land
where could they, were they living today,
find such another state as our own lovely
Utah, with her wonderful resources of
wealth, many of which no other state can
boast Her gold and silver, and various
other mines, equal to any in our country,
perhaps to any in the world, though they
are yet in their infancy, her mountains, her
broad valleys, her rivers and lakes; her
agricultural fields, her fruits and flowers.
Where, Oh, Wise one is there another like
her this bright sunny morning, with peace,
plenty and good will hovering all about her,
as she enters the sisterhood of states, with
one of her own true, brave, honest sons for
her first Governor. Surely that is as it
should be, for while he is people of our
people, he is also a descendant of the brave
fathers who landed upon Plymouth rock on
that cold desolate morning 275 years ago,
whose proud old ancestors date ther lineage
back more than eight centuries, and whose
family motto is now and has always been,
“Tis better to be than to appear.” A mot-
to our “Hebe” has not only carried in his
family genealogy, but in his heart as well,
making of him the one man Utah in her
triumphal hour demanded as ruler of her
people. L. S. D.


MADAME D’ARBLAY.

	AT Lynn, in the far off English Co. of
Shropshire in 1752, was born in a quiet
unassuming little cottage, the woman who 
did for the English world of fiction, what
Jeremy Collier did for the English drama,
but did it in a better way, by writing the
first successful English novel, ever written 
and given to the world by a woman.
	Frances Burney the daughter of Charles
Burney the village organist. The Burneys’
were of Irish origin and descended from
the McBurneys, a family at one time
possessed of plenty of means and good
possition in the county. The McBurnys'
ruined themselves through rivalry and in-
ternal jealousies. James, the heir appar-
ent, got himself disinherited through a
runaway match with an actress and his
father revenged himself on his disobedient
boy by marrying the cook. The cook gave
birth to a son named Joseph who succeeded
to the family estates, ran through them
with surprising alacrity, squandered the
family ducats and was soon as poor as his
disinherited brother, and both were forced
to earn their bread. Joseph turned dancing
master and James struck the “Mack” off
his name and set up as a portrait painter,
he was the father of Charles Burney the
organist at Lynn.
	Charles was apprenticed to a celebrated
musician in London and became very suc-
cessful, with a brilliant career before him;
but his health failed and he was obliged
to leave the city and accepted the position
of organist at Lynn. Little Frances’s
mother died when she was a baby, and she
seems to have been in childhood a com-
plete little vagabond, she never had a
teacher or governess, was called “a dunce”
by her brothers and sisters, and at eight
years of age could neither read, or write nor
knew her letters.
	The degree of “Dr. of music” was con-
fered upon Charles Burney by the university
of Oxford and in 1760 he moved back to
London and took up his residence on the
south side of Leicester Square in a house,
her biographer says “that will be famous as
long as our Island retains any traces of
civilization for it was the home of Newton.”
	Dr. Burney obtained pupils in some of the
best families and about this time wrote
“the History of Music” gaining for him-
self a place among men of letters and was
able to support his family comfortably.
Although he loved, petted and carressed
his little daughter, he never gave her the
slightest care. The other children were
sent to Paris to be educated, but the father
thought that if Frances was educated in a
Catholic school, she would be perverted
from the Prostestant faith, kept her at home
to run riot in the streets, play with the
pauper children in the neighborhood and
mix freely with butler, groom and waiting
maids. When fourteen she learned to
read and one of her sisters taught her how
to write. Her father had a large library of
mixed books, but the collection contained
but a single novel—Fieldings “Amelia.” 
From childhood to womanhood the little


[Column 1]
Frances was picking up an education, better
than classical culture, and storing her mind
from the great book of human nature.
	She was a shy, silent child, never speak-
ing unless spoken to, but gifted with quick
observation and ready wit. Dr. Burney’s
position was peculiar, he belonged by birth
and fortune to the middle class, yet few nobles
could assemble in grand palaces, so mixed
varied and distinguished guests as flocked
to his house night after night. He had
won Johnson’s heart by praises of the
English Dictionary. David Garrick loved
him and Macaulay gives a charming picture
of Garrick in the Burney Nursery—exhibit-
ing all his power of mimicry for the amuse-
ment of the little Burneys, shuddering and
crouching as if he saw a ghost, scaring
them by raving like a maniac and then be-
coming an auctioneer, a chimney sweep or
an old woman and making them laugh ’till
the tears ran down their cheeks.
	At the Burney tea table could be found
Colman, Twining, Hawksworth, Reynolds,
Barry and the most notable men in England,
besides the most eminent musical perform-
ers of the age. The greatest Italian sing-
ers who visited England regarded his
criticisms as fatal and exerted themselves to
obtain his favor. Rapacious singers who
never opened their mouths to sing an air,
less than fifty pounds, sang night after
night for him without a fee. Thus did the
Burneys give nightly concerts, without ex-
pense surpassing those of the nobility—
upon these occasions the quiet street where
he lived would be blocked with coroneted
chariots and the little drawing room packed
with peers and ambassadors. We get a
glimpse of one of these evenings, with the
little house packed with the titled people of
the realm, the great lion of the evening, the
mighty Russian ambassador, Count Orloff,
whose gigantic figure, blazing with jewels,
while his head brushed the ceiling and the
Burney children whispering in the corner
and behind his back with mingled admira-
tion and horror, “that he was the favored
lover of his august mistress, that he had
won the chief part in the revolution to
which she owed her throne, and that his
huge hands now glittering with diamonds,
had given the last squeeze to the windpipe
of her unfortunate husband.”
	Frances was small in figure, plain in face
and not one of her father s guests dreamed
of the material, with her keen sense of the
ridiculous she was laying up, to be given to
the world, through works of fiction in after
years. As soon as she could use her pen
she began writing little stories taking off
her father’s guests, that she would read for
the amusement of herself and sisters.
When she was fifteen her father married
again, then trouble began in the Burney
camp. The new mother discovered that
her step-daughter was a scribbler, there
followed lectures and scoldings and after a
a struggle Fanny yielded and made a bon-
fire of all her manuscripts, after this she
kept a diary and corresponded largely with
the man who did more to form her mind
than all others.
	Samuel Crisp was an old friend of her
father’s years before she was born. He was
a bright star in the most splendid circles of
London, of easy fortune, well connected,
well educated, polished manners, and rare
personal charms—his taste was sought in
literature, music, painting, architecture and
sculpture; but in an evil hour, he set up for
an author, wrote a tragedy in five acts
that was of course a failure—lost his tem-

[Column 2]
per and spirits, became a cynic, retired to a
wild tract in Surrey and became a hater of
mankind. His retirement was kept a secret
known only to the Burneys. Fannie he
regarded as his daughter and taught her to
call him “father”—From his lonely home
in the mountains. this man by his letters,
directed, formed and educated her. In 1787
under the name of Grafton, a book-seller
having been found who would take the
risk Miss Burney’s first work “Evelina”
was published, she secured £20 and the
publisher netted £15000.
	The novel was an immense success. The
book had nothing but its own merit to
push it into public favor, the author was un-
known for weeks, nothing was talked of
but “Evelina” it found its way to tables
never before polluted by a novel—when it
became known that a shy, silent girl had
produced the best work of fiction that had
appeared since the death of Smollett the
literary world went wild, the author was
called the foremost writer of the day, and
the book took its place among classical
literature. At this time sprang up that
close intimacy with beautiful Mrs. Thrale,
then at the height of her power and pros-
perity—Johnson who never had noticed
Frances when taking tea with her father,
grew very proud of her, and began by pat-
ting her on the head, raising her hand to
his lips, but soon he clasped her in his huge
arms and implored her “to be a gocd girl.”
	Miss Burney’s head was never turned by
the flattery her genius had won, she seemed
to enjoy it only for the happiness it con-
fered upon her family and Father Crisp.
She next wrote a comedy “The Wittings,”
but Samuel Crisp wiser for her than he had
been for himself read the manuscript in
his lonely home in the Surrey hills and told
her she had failed, the comedy was never
brought out and never printed—“Cecelia”
was published in 1782. Miss Burney was
then thirty and clouds were gathering thick
and fast around her, she was called to the
death bed of her best friend, Father Crisp,
and returned to the bedside of Johnson who
had been struck with paralysis and lovely
Mrs. Thrale had gone down in darkness,
worse than death. Frances found a friend
in Mrs. Delany, a lady of noble family
living under the patronage of the Royal
family. While visiting her one morning, a
stout gentlemen with a star on his breast
followed by a lady entered unannounced.
A child playing on the floor set up a cry of
“the King” and scampered for a royal
caress. It was the King of England,
Mad George the third and his wife Queen
Charlotte. Miss Burney was presented
and the Royal pair conceived a great fancy
for her. His Majesty confided to her, that
Voltaire was a monster. Rosseau he liked
better but was there ever such stuff as
Shakspeare “only one must not say so.”
Frances became fascinated by these attentions
and shortly after accepted the office of
“Keeper of the Queens’ robes.” The
Edinburg Review contains a violent attack
and McMillian lets losse all his sarcasm on
this court movement. He writes that it
was a complete separation from family and
friends, that she might as well have gone
to Calcutta or to jail for libel, that the fore-
most writer of the British isles lays aside
her pen and for the next five years employs
her talent in sticking pins—mixing snuff—
and answering a waiting woman’s bell. In
1791, Miss Burney worn in body and
mind handed in her resignation and with
the greatest difficulty got it accepted. She

[Column 3]
spent a few months in travel and then mar-
ried Alexander Richard D’Arblay, a French
Artillery officer whom the revolution had
stript of his property and made an exile—
Mr. D’Arblay’s talents in a strange country
did not make him rich and the task of
providing for the family fell upon his wife.
In 1796 “Camelia” was published in five
volumes, bringing the author a handsome
sum of money, but no increase of fame.
In 1802 General D’Arblay having given in
his allegiance to Napoleon, he was reinstated
in rank and called back to France, he
moved his family to Paris where Madame
D’Arblay lived ten years. Coming back to
England in 1814, published "The Wanderers"
in 1832 published the memories of her
father and died Jan 6th 1840. She was
eighty eight years old.
	Madame D. Arblay’s fame rests upon her
earlier works, her later publications lower
her reputation. Her style under went a
gradual and most pernicious change,
unexampled Macaulay says in literary
history—she took a bad style to France, she
brought back a worse one, during the last
forty years of her life the public knew but
little of her but at the announcment of her
death a thrill ran through many an English
heart as they thought of the little brown
haired girl, that launched her bark so fear-
lessly upon the troubled literary waters of
fiction so many years ago and sailed, so
bravely from her moorings out into the deep,
without nautical rules, chart or compass, and
forgetting to use plummet or line drifted into
shallow French waters—but nevertheless
breaking the way for brains that have given
us Mansfield Park—Jane Eyre—John Hali-
fax—Daniel Deronda and the Heavenly
Twins. I. C. B.


98                   WOMANS EXPONENT


“O SUCCESS! WHAT A TRIUMPH?"

	THE W. S. A. of Parowan held an ex-
ultation meeting the evening of theseventh.
It was a general time of rejoicing. The
house was filled to o’er flowing, as it gen-
erally is at the meetings of the W. S. A.
The room was neatly decorated for the oc-
casion. After the opening exercises yellow
ribbon badges were passed to all present.
The program consisted of speeches, songs,
music from the orchestra band. Many were
called on for sentiments or expressions of
their feelings on this joyful occasion, all
responded:
	One year and three months have elapsed
since the first organization was effected in
Iron Co. We have rapidly advanced gath-
ering profit with pleasure. Have often
been told that our meetings were behind
none in the territory.
	This is largely owing to our leader.
Who,mailed in all the dignity of her call-
ing bravely meets the unceasing opposition. 
Now that we are in a new world let us not
disband. But in the strength of our union,
live to advance the race. Be minute wo-
men, and ever survive for the right. 
						J. M. L.
			Parowan, Jan. 15th, 1896.


MISS FRANCIS WILLARD writes: "The
cry of humanity is, Let the Red Cross enter
Turkey! No other means is left to us by 
which we can help our starving brothers
and sisters in that country. It is an oppor-
tunity greater, more sacred, and more per-
emptory than any that has come to a phil-
anthropic society since history began.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LIFE TEMPORAL, ETERNAL.

BY O. J. WILSON.
"The things that are seen are temporal; but the things
	which are not seen are eternal."—ST. PAUL.

Life, like the year, has its seasons,—
	Young Spring, with its fragrance and flowers.
A Summer of promise, an Autumn of fruitage,
	And Winter, with desolate hours;
And youth is the spring-time of being,
	To plow in, to sow and to plant, 
		And the harvests we gather
		Depends upon whether
We laze like the sluggard or toil like the ant.

The flowers of my spring-time have faded,
	My Summer of striving is o’er.
And I stand ’mid the fruits of the Autumn,
	Content with the beautiful store;
Yet I shrink from the chill of the Winter,
	Whose snows are beginning to fall,
		And fearfully shiver
		As I draw near the river
Whose wide-wasting waters encircle us all. 

Yet they tell me that over the river 
	Are homes which the worthy may win,
In a land of perennial beauty,
	Unsaddened by sorrow and sin;
And that there the glorified children
	Of wisdom and goodness and truth
		Meet never to sever
		But forever and ever
Shall dwell in the beauty of immortal youth.

Shall such destiny surely be ours?
	Are the tangible objects of time
But the shadows of spirit existence
	Projected from spaces sublime?
Is the unseen the only eternal?
	Through death does life truly begin?
		Is the real the ideal,
		And the ideal the real?
Is the life we are losing the life we may wiu?

Vain, fruitless all questions! No oracle answers,
	The sibyls are silent and Delphi is dumb.
But lo! from the lips of the Teacher of Zion,
	The meek and the lowly, the glad tidings come:
	“In the house of my Father the mansions are
	many;
	I go to prepare, that with me you may dwell
		In glory supernal,
		Unfading, eternal
Transcending all pleasures that mortal may tell.”

So we trust, so believe, and are happy in holding
	The faith of our fathers, who in triumph passed
	on,
Having fought the good fight in the conflict with
	evil,
	And laid down the cross but to take up the
	crown.
Then welcome, thrice welcome the snows that are
	falling;
	No longer I’ll shrink from the chill which they
	bring;
		Since over the river
		Are blooming forever
The Eden-like gardens of perpetual Spring.

Be it mine, be it thine, noble brother,
	To meet in that radiant land,
With the loved and the lovely, the lost and la-
	mented,
	Reunited, the dear ones, an unbroken band;
And ’mid genial surroundings, in glad avocations,
	By the Master, in love to us, given, 
		Solve the manifold mystery
		Of creation’s history
Through the infinite cycles of Heaven.


THE Emperor Francis Joseph has ac-
corded permission to women to study
medicine in the universities of Hungary.


[Column 1]
BEFORE IT WAS TOO LATE.

	“OH, dear me! What a long lonesome
day I see ahead of me, and peering out of
the window it really looks like storm.
What shall I do to drive away the ennui
of my life, having nothing much to do; I
have heard so much said about forming
new resolutions at this the beginning of the
New Year, and trying to do good wherever
one can see a chance of doing so, but I am
afraid nothing special ever comes my way.
Well I guess I might as well resign myself
to the inevitable. Some of the girls may
call in and old Mrs. Harvey may call to
rest on her way to see her sick daughter,
what a pleasant face and peaceful spirit she
has to be sure, it really does one good to
chat with her.”
	Mary Vernon had tarried in the morning
room after the rest of the family had left,
and thus fell to soliloquizing to herself, a
petted, spoiled child of a well-to-do family;
she had reached womanhood in possession
of many noble traits of character that were
really lying dormant for the want of arous-
ing but when brought to the test would
show her true to the heart’s core.
	“Ah! There is some one at the door
now” and hastily smoothing the folds of
her wrapper and casting a hasty glance in
the mirror opposite, admitted the visitor
who proved to be the only son and support
of a poor widowed lady, living a short dis-
tance from Mary’s home. A young man
that had assisted Mr. Vernon about the
place whenever occasion demanded.
	“Good morning Jack and a very happy
New Year to you.”
	“Good morning Miss Mary and the very
best wishes of the New Year to you.”
	“How is your mother and the children this
morning” Mary then asked.
	“Oh the children are quite well, thank
you, but mother (coloring and stammering)
is feeling a little under the weather.”
	“Indeed! Sit down Jack and tell me all
about it” offering him a chair, this Jack ac-
cepted still blushing saying, “Well it is
just this way, I have been spending my
evenings away from home of late and
mother gets lonely with no one but the
children to talk to, but few call as they don’t
speak our language, this morning she won’t
talk much, said she would leave home and
goes around looking as though she would
rather die than not, I would much rather
she would scold. I know that I ought to
have staid at home more, I feel like leaving
home myself when I see her with such a
sad look.”
	“Nonsense Jack, we will see what can
be done to make your mother more cheer-
ful.”
	They had been neighbors for some time
and Mary knew in spite of Jack’s rough,
uncouth ways that he possessed a warm,
generous heart almost to a fault and she al-
so knew that Jack’s mother, like all people,
had her own peculiarities, and one of them
was to domineer with an almost iron will,
because she knew that her son would do
almost anything rather than offend her, he
was often heard to say when some careless
person protested against his mother’s man-
ner to him “mother is getting old and be-
ing so far from her native land and relatives
I think I can well afford to be patient with
her, for I know that I would be very lonely
without her, she means well.” Jack's
father had died when he was quite young,
the mother then struggled bravely along,

[Column 2]
meeting with no great disadvantage no
more than is common with all working
people.
	Jack had now reached manhood and was
the sole support of a sister, two orphan
children and his mother, he was never heard
to murmur or to complain, but the burden
must indeed have seemed heavy at times.
	Mary sat for a few moments lost in
thought then broke the silence by saying,
“I see you are on your way to market,
glancing at his basket, while you are on
your errand, I will see what can be done,
cheer up and call on your way back.”
	The young man then took his departure,
Mary sat thinking for a little while then
went in search of her mother and younger
sister, this object gained, she held a short
consultation with them they readily agreed
to assist her in her plan and soon had gath-
ered together a few articles, then protect-
ing herself from the storm which had
already begun, she departed with a light
heart but not without some little misgivings
as to her welcome from Jack’s mother, but
she had set forth with a firm determination
to make herself happy that morning by
making others so and she was not to be
easily thwarted in her plans.
	Her heart gave a great throb of fear,
however, when the mother met her at the
door with rather a tragic looking face, but
summoning up all her courage to her aid,
she extended her hand wishing her a very
happy New Year, which the mother under-
stood and responded to, in broken English.
	Mary saw the ice was already broken, she
then picked up the little four year old girl
playing about, placing her on her lap, after
chatting with her a little, then took from
her basket a very pretty doll, a relic of her
sisters, the scream of delight from the child
more than repaied Mary for her trouble,
then next came a few toys for the boy.
	Next she soon fashioned a very pretty
lamp shade from the material she had
brought in her basket as she had heard Jack
lamenting his mother’s weak eyes. Then
came a pretty blooming plant well wrapt to
protect it from the biting frost, this caused
a cry of delight from the receiver.
	Mary then took her leave feeling assured
that she had thoroughly accomplished that
which she had set out to do.
	On her way back she bethought herself
of an invalid lady living near and calling,
comforted her with a few cheering words.
She then busied herself with straightening
up the house and making the invalid more
comfortable and after making the children
look more tidy, she then sat down taking
Longfellow's book of poems from its place
on a stand near by read in sweet, low tones,
“The Psalm of Life” and when she came
to the beautiful lines
		“Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal.”
	She felt to acknowledge to herself that
never before had she so fully realized their
beauty and significance, and she mentally
resolved that henceforth her life should not
be like that of the gay butterfly but one of
real usefulness.
	And as a few days later Jack with beaming
countenance thanked her and told of the
change in his home and of his resolve to
sacrifice more of his pleasure to make his
mother happy, she felt to thank God for
opening her eyes to the error of her ways
before it was too late.
					IDA HAAG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonp[-]reil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, AND 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
THE INAUGURATION.

	THE glad news of the Proclamation for
statehood in Utah, being issued and signed
by President Cleveland on the morning of
January, 4th, 1896, was received here with
joy and exultation, and was immediately
telegraphed all over the new State, so that
the demonstrations of rejoicing were gen-
eral. The tidings reached this city at
10 o’clock and three minutes probably the
first official business of the morning, at the
White House, which seems particularly
auspicious. The message was received
with acclamation in all that the word im-
plies. Cannons firing from the highest
points near the city, bells ringing, whistles
blowing, stars and stripes floating from all
available places, bands of music playing,
and the air, fairly echoing with shouts of
joy from the multitude. Never was state-
hood more strongly emphasized, we think,
than on that never to be forgotten day, that
brought freedom to women, as well as men,
the full rights and privileges of citizenship.
	Preparations were already in progress for
the inaugural ceremonies and military
parade on Monday, January 6th, to celebrate
the happy occasion, and for a ball to be
given in the theatre the same evening,
making the entire day a joyful as well as
a historical event.
	Early on Monday morning January 6th,
the grand celebration so long anticipated
begun, the streets were thronged with
people, thousands of visitors from other
parts of the state, beside the home popula-
tion, until it was almost impossible to pass
along the public thoroughfares.
	The magnificent procession was in charge
of Grand Marshal Robert Burton and Ad-
jutant General John Q. Cannon.
	The military parade presented an impos-
ing spectacle, bands of music, banners,
with flags, and fine horses and officers in
uniform cannot fail to produce enthusiasm
on any occasion and this was exceedingly
important, as well as historic. Foremost
among the officers from camp was General
Penrose of the U. S. A. and several others
with companies in uniform and the National
Guard conspicuous also with Brigadier
General R W. Young, Colonels N. W.
Clayton and Frank Jennings.
	Governor Heber M. Wells with head un-
covered, with the State and Territorial of-
ficers and Judges in carriages also Mayor
and City officials with other dignitaries
formed a long line followed by citizens;
There seemed to be innumerable bands of
music and many civic and secret societies,

[Column 2]
Masons, Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias,
etc., whose banners, badges and parapher-
nalia always make a fine appearance, there
was also an elaborate display of trades,
followed by carriage loads of citizens;
mounted police in uniform on either side
added to the pictorial effect. The line of
parade was on the principal streets and the
waving of flags with the martial music, the
bowing, lifting of hats, waving of hand-
kerchiefs and cheering, as one after another
was recognized by the crow[-]s who filled
the windows, piazzas, doorways and side-
walks made the affair a triumphal march,
all the way along to the great Tabernacle
where the inauguration was to take place.
	The decorations of the Tabernacle were
most unique, the great American flag,
“Old Glory” the largest ever made, covered
the entire central surface of the dome of
this vast auditorium—(its exact size is 75
by 150 feet.) The forty-fifth star for Utah
was placed in the upper corner of the flag
and an incandescent light was so arranged
as to throw its rays upon the thousands of
people who filled the galleries and body of
the house in this capacious building. From
the great flag were numberless red, white
and blue streamers running in all directions,
and joining the elaborate trimming of flags
and bunting which decorated the gallery.
All the speakers’ stands and pillars of the
house were artistically draped with the
national colors, and an immense American
eagle surmounted the tower of the great
organ under which was the name UTAH
electrically illuminated. We are happy
to say in this connection, and as a matter
of history, that a woman, Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, was the principal person in
designing and in superintending the actual
work of decorating the Tabernacle.
	On the speakers' stand were many promi-
nent citzens, among them the following:
	Presidents Woodruff, George Q. Cannon
and Jos. F. Smith, Hon. Jos. L. Rawlins,
Acting Governor C. C. Richards, Governor
Heber M. Wells, Chief Justice Zane, Judges
Miner, Bartch, King, Judd, Baskin, Com-
missioners Tatlock and Sherman, John
Henry Smith, Francis M. Lyman, A. H.
Cannon, Brigham Young, R. C. Chambers,
J. W. Whitehead, General Penrose of the
U. S. A., and numerous other army officers.
	Among the latter were Adjutant General
John Q. Cannon, Brigadier General R. W.
Young, Colonels N. W. Clayton and Frank
Jennings.
	Precisely at 12:15 Acting Governor Rich-
ards called the vast assemblage to order.
	He spoke very briefly and the substance of
his remarks was as follows: "I feel very
sensibly the great honor that the committee
ha[-]conferred upon me in selecting me to fill
this important position today. For nearly
fifty years the people of Utah have been
patiently and prayerfully waiting for this
auspicious occasion—this blessed day. Ever
since my childhood I have been taught that
the time would come when the citizens of
Utah would be accorded every political and
civil right granted to their fellow citizens
throughout the United States. Not less
than three generations of people are living
in this new State who have never cast a
vote for a President of the United States.
	Bnt on November next they will go to
the polls and exercise that privilege that all
freemen love so well. This is the proudest
day of my life, and when I say that, I but
express the feelings of at least a quarter of a
million of people who all join in saluting the

[Column 3]
new star and in giving thanks for the aban-
donment of Territorial bondage for that more
perfect government to be found under State-
hood (Applause.)
	Stirring selections of music by the
Martial Band, from Fort Douglas, were
given next which were heartily applauded.
	Acting Governor Richards announced
that President Woodruff was to have offered
the opening prayer; but on account of his
health, preventing him from doing so, he
had prepared an INVOCATION which was
delivered by President George Q. Can-
non.
	The great choir of one thousand voices
sang with unsurpassed enthusiasm, the
“Star Spangled Banner,” while flags waved
effectively and delight was apparent on the
faces of the assemblage. Tumultuous
applause by the patriotic throng filled the
building.
	Hon. Joseph L. Rawlins was introduced
amid cheers and applause and read Presi-
dent Cleveland’s Proclamation announcing
the admission of Utah, which we publish
in full.

A PRCCLAMATION.

	WEREAS, the Congress of the United
States passed an act which was approved on
the 16th day of July, 1894, entitled "An act
to enable the people of Utah to form a con-
stitution and State government and to be
admitted into the Union on an equal footing
with the original States," which act provided
for the electio[-] of delegates to a constitu-
tional convention to meet at the seat of
Government of the Territory of Utah on the
first Monday in March, 1895’ for the purpose
of declaring the adoption of the constitution
of the United States by the people of the pro-
posed State and forming a constitution and
State government for such State and,
	WHEREAS, delegates were accordingly
elected who met, organized and declared on
behalf of the people of said proposed State
their adoption of the Constitution of the
United States, all as provided in said act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention so organized,
did, by ordinance irrevocable without the
consent of the United States and the people
of said State, as required by said act, provide
that perfect toleration of religious sentiment
shall be secured and that no inhabitant of
said State shall ever be molested in person or
property on account of his or her mode of
religious worship, but that polygamous or
plural marriages are for ever prohibited; and
did also by said ordinancə make the other
various stipulations recited in sec. 3 of said
act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention thereupon for-
med a constitution and State government for
said proposed State, which constitution,
including said ordinance, was duly sub-
mitted to the people thereof at an election
held on the Tuesday next after the first
Monday of November, 1893, as directed by
said act; and
	WHEREAS, the return of said election has
been made and canvassed and the result
thereof certified to me together with a state-
ment of the votes cast and a copy of said con-
stitution and ordinance, all as provided in
such act, showing that a majority of the
votes lawfully cast at such election was for the
ratification and adoption of said constitution
and ordinance; and
	WHEREAS, the constitution and govern-
ment of said proposed State are republican
in form, said constitution is not repugnant to,
the Constitution of the United States and the


[Column 1]
Declaration of Independence, and all the pro-
visions of said act have been complied with,
in the formation of said constitution and
government.
	Now, therefore I, Grover Cleveland, Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the act of Congress aforesaid,
and by authority thereof, announce the result
of said election to be as so certified, and do
hereby declare and proclaim that the terms
and conditions prescribed by the Congress of
the United States to entitle the State of
Utah to admission into the Union have been
duly complied with, and that the creation
of said State and its admission into the
Union on an equal footing with the original
States is now accomplished.
	IN testimony whereof I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.
	(Seal-) Done at the city of Washington
this 4th day of January, in the year of our
Lord, 1896, and of the independence of the
United States of America the 120th.
				GROVER CLEVELAND.
	By the President: RICHARD OLNEY.
Secretary of State.
	At the conclusion the cheers were almost
deafening.
	Mr. Rawlins turned to Mr. Wells and
said, “and now I have the honor to present
you, Heber M. Wells the first Governor of
Utah, the pen which was used by the
President of the United States, ten minutes
before the hour of midnight, July 16, 1894,
signing the bill under which Utah has be-
come a State in the American Union. I
present it to you in order that it may be
kept among the archives of the state of
Utah.
	Anton Pederson's band played a brilliant
and thrilling selection, and received en-
thusiastic applause.
	The most soul-thrilling incident of the
day was when Acting Governor Richards
surrendered the Territorial power of the
Executive Office, as follows—
	“Pursuant to the provisions of the Con-
stitution of the new State and the proclama-
tion of the President, the hour has arrived
when the Federal government is to with-
draw from the control of the affairs of the
Territory, and to surrender it up to the peo-
ple and to the native son of Utah. It is
fitting that this should be done in this pub-
lic manner, and in the performance of this
pleasing duty, and, as the Governor of the
Territory of Utah I now surrender to your
favored servant, the Executive office, upon
his taking the oath prescribed by the Con-
stitution, which will now be administered
by the Chief Justice of the new State, the
Hon. Charles S. Zane.”
	Governor Wells took the oath as adminis-
tered by Chief Justice Zane, and at a given
signal the booming of artillery was heard
from Capitol hill and continued as the oath
was also administered by the Chief Justice
to the other state officers.
	The big chorus then rendered Stephens’s
new song, “Utah we Love Thee.”
	Secretary of State Hammond read Gov.
Wells first Proclamation convening the
Legislature at 3 o’clock of that day in the
City and County Building, and then followed
Governor Wells Inaugural Address, an able
and exhaustive document, in which he paid
a glowing tribute to the pioneers, and re- 
counted in an interesting manner the polit-
cal history of the Territory from its first
settlement until the present time including
statistics, and valuable information, and

[Column Two]
some of the main points in the new Con-
stitution.
	Governor Wells in his address did not
forget to mention the women as fellow
citizens, and we are proud to record his
good word on this subject.
	“Moderation and wisdom acquired in a
hard school are often the most valuable
possessions of nations, of states and of in-
dividuals. Let us, fellow citizens, profit by
the past and prove worthy of the trust re-
posed in us. And when I say “fellow citi-
zens,” be it remembered that from this time
forth the term includes the women of Utah
as well as the men. Says the Constitution:
	“The rights of citizens of the State of
Utah to vote and hold office shall not be
denied or abridged on account of sex.
	Both male and female citizens of the State
shall enjoy equally all civil political and re-
ligious rights and privileges.”
	In behalf of the male electors of the State,
I now extend the hand of greeting to the
qualified female voters and welcome them
to the full rights and privileges of citizen-
ship. It seems to me they are to be especi-
ally congratulated because there is no a-
bridgement of their rights; but on the con-
trary, they enter upon the domain of the
citizen under Statehood as free and indepen-
dent sovereigns. Their waiting has been
long and patient. Their triumph is all the
more complete. May the pure, ennobling
influence which they impart to the hearths
and homes of Utah be felt in the exercise of
their new duties, and may their future
use of the ballot vindicate the wisdom and
enlightenment of our law-givers.
	After the delivery of the address which
was received with cheers and applause, the
choir and the immense patriotic audience
joining rendered America, and Dr. Iliff pro-
nounced the benediction. As the people
dispersed the combined bands of music
gave “Hail Columbia” and the “Star
Spangled Banner,” amid cheers and shouts
of delight and rejoicing.
	The inaugural ball was as great a success
as the ceremonies in the Tabernacle,
although it could not be quite so dignified
and solemn. It was a sort of triumphal
closing of this historic day of days. The
elaborate display of decorations illumined
with incandescent lights produced a very
fine effect. The great blazing flag which
hung in the archway of the platform was a
“Marvel and a wonder,” a thing of light
and beauty to behold.
	It is indeed a proud day for Utah when
one of her noble sons born upon the native
soil, stands as the Chief Executive of the
new state, which was ushered in so
auspiciously, and is welcomed so gladly by
a happy, prosperous and thrifty people
anxious to promote justice, equity and the
right, and to uphold the Constitution of this
great and free American Republic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTERS TO THE GOVERNOR AND
MRS. E. B. WELLS.

			DETROIT, Mich.,
					Jan. 8, 1896.
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
	Salt Lake City:
	Dear Sir—At a mass meeting of women
held in this city yesterday to celebrate the
admission of Utah into the Union, with
full suffrage for women, I was commissioned
to convey to you the congratulations of
Detroit women that Utah has enrolled her-

[Column 2]
self among the states that guarantee to all,
within her borders, political equality with-
out distinction of sex, thus proclaiming to
the world that the children of Utah shall be
born of free mothers.
	The example of Utah must help to hasten
the day of the general enfranchisement of
women, and that happy day when intelli-
gence and morality shall altogether dis-
place brute force, ignorance and intrigue in
the government of our beloved country.
	Hoping that your high office as the first
Governor of the new State may bring honor
to your name, and that the commonwealth
under our control may experience increased
prosperity,
			I am, cordially, 
				HARRIET J. BOUTELL.
			TO MRS. WELLS.
			DETROIT, Jan. 8, 1896. 
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City:
	Dear Madame—The women of the Equal
Suffrage Association, of the Independent
Women Voters’ Association, and of the
Temperance Unions of this city, celebrated
on Jan. 7 the admission of Utah into the
galaxy of really free states. We rejoiced
that Statehood brought political freedom to
the women as well as the men of Utah, and
we predict for a State entering the Union
under such happy auspices, such prosperity
as it richly deserves. To the women of
Utah we look for such dignity and discre-
tion in the discharge of their new duties
that we may be able to point to them as
exemplars, and as an earnest of what may
be accomplished by the help of women.
We have all confidence in them, for we be-
lieve that it is the universal desire of the
woman-heart to promote justice, peace,
temperance, chastity and all that makes for
the uplifting of humanity.
	In the name of the women of Detroit, I 
send to all the women of Utah, and
especially to those who have labored for 
this great achievement, joyful congratula-
tions and hearty good wishes for the success
of all they may undertake.
			Fraternally, 
				(Mrs) H. J. Boutell.

			DENVER, Jan. 12, 1896.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	Yours received. I thank you for all your
good words to us and hope that you may
realize all you desire in your State. When
Miss Yates lectured for us in Denver, we
had our flag adorned with the third star. 
 	Shall be pleased to hear from you from
time to time.
		Very sincerely yours,
				THEODOSIA G. AMMONS.
			PHOENIX, ARIZONA,
				December 28, 1895.
Emmeline B. Wells;
	Dear Madam:—I enclose you copy of 
resolutions passed by the first Territorial 
Equal Suffrage association. held at Phoenix,
Ariz., December 6, 1895, Mrs. Laura M.
Johns, of Kansas, in the chair. We take
pleasure in informing your association that
we are now organized, and in line with, and 
auxiliary to the National association.
	Yours Truly,
			LILLIAN FRY COLLINS,
		Rec. Sec. Territorial Association

		THE RESOLUTION.
	Whereas, The women of Colorado and


dear old parents thirty seven years ago;
after procuring some relics we drove down
the old familiar hill that I used to travel
morning and night to school, the old school
house is almost what my fancy painted it
but the picturesque log school building had
given place to a modern brick structure.
What is there in the human heart that binds
us so strongly to childhood? The old
Wesley chapel and its country grave yard,
with the resting place of two of my broth-
ers, my grand parents and many other
relatives next engaged my attention.
After a week full crowded with renewed
memories I returned here Via, Cedar Grove
with its dilapidated little church and its ad-
joining grave yard, the Indian Mound &c.
which aroused my childish curiosity, and
brought many remembrances of the past.
   The weather here is so changeable and
unpleasant that I have not been able to
visit as much as I might have desired.
					R. H. DOOLAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MEETING held in the 14th Ward Nov.
16th, 1895, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing "Glorious
things of thee are spoken." Prayer by Sis-
ter M. W. Wilcox. Continued by singing
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Horne stated that our Secretary,
Sister Vilate Young had thought she would
be here today, but she must be detained,
and Sister Alder has consented to act a
little longer, when I trust Sister Young will
be back. Said she was pleased to be here
this lovely day. "We must be tried before
the Lord to see if we will stand. We must
embrace the truth for the love of it. Those
who serve God will have strength to over-
come trials. We must watch as well as
pray, and pray always. Read the counsels
of our Savior to His Apostles. We must
have these things always before us to re-
mind us of Him. I hope you will employ
the time and bear your testimony if only a
few words spoken in weakness. President
Brigham Young told us to get up parties in
this Hall as nothing had ever desecrated it.
Let us thank God for His blessings which
He has poured out upon us.”
	Sister Barrow spoke of the efficacy of prayer
and administrations of the Priesthood. Sis-
ters sang "Redeemer of Israel.” Sister
Fame said she knew this was the work of
God. Felt to rejoice in the work. I honor
my father and my mother for they have
taught us good principles.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was happy to be
here. "The sisters that come to this meeting
are the wheat. Here they learn such good
things. I love to come here, yet I enjoy
the work in the Temple most. Our religion
is first in our thoughts. I feel this is a
choice house, I have had very happy hours
here and some sad ones. I do not think
the Savior will come until pestilence and
famine passes over the earth.”
	Sister Robinson said I know that the
angels are here. When I go into the
house of the Lord, I feel that we leave all
the cares of this world behind us, I know
that this is the work of God. Made other
encouraging remarks.
	Sisters sang, "The trials of the present
day, require the Saints to watch and pray.”
	Sister Morris, said she had been away for
a while, but her heart is always here, had
been in this church for forty years, and "I
pray that I may be faithful, also that we
may be more united. May we endure to
the end.”
	Sister Larson, "I feel the sweet influences
of the Holy Spirit here. I wish to give
glory unto God, look forward for the re-
ward of the faithful. I do not want to
look backward, may we be true to our God
and to one another.”
	Sisters sang, "Let us pray gladly pray.”
	A sister in the congregation felt grateful
to her Heavenly Father for the many bless-
ings bestowed upon her. If we have faith
in the Lord we will have the blessings,”

[Column 2]
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, "I do not
think I ever bore my testimony to the truth
of this work publicly. But I feel to say
that this is the work of the Lord. If we
have trials or sickness, if we will call upon
the Lord for a blessing we will get it.”
	A sister in the congregation said she knew
that the promise of the Lord was sure, if
we bear our testimony that this is the work
of God.
	Sister Forsythe, "I feel that we must be-
come as one, so that the Lord will own us
as His.”
	Sister Hardy said she tried to serve the
Lord. "We are making a record every
day, I hope it will be a bright one. We
should trust each other. We must be hum-
ble unto the end.”
	Sister Nuttall said she feared to stand and
speak of the Lord. Had been promised
better health if she would stand and bear
testimony. Said the spirit of the Lord
was here. "I always feel to praise God
and glorify His holy name.”
	Sister Reed, "I know that the spirit of
the Lord is here, I want to live and serve the
Lord.”
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that she had been faithful unto
this day and desired to press onward day by
day.
	Sister Nunn, "I rejoice to be here today,
and I feel better than when I came here.
May we put our trust in God and serve
Him.”
	Another sister said she was thankful for
the many instructions she received in these
meetings, and desired to acknowledge, the
hand of God in all her trials.
	Sister Waterfall said she felt that Satan
was on the path, may we live faithful and
be able to come to these meetings, said she
suffered with her heart, but I know our
Father comforts us in our trouble. Told of
a vision she had. Would to God that we
might see eye to eye and be one.
	Sisters sang, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—"I feel to rejoice
in all that has been spoken today. I never
had a greater desire than I have today to
serve God, we need power from on high to
live in this day.” Spoke of a wonderful
manisfestation given to her. Said the
name, date of birth and death, was given
to her, also related a dream she had.
	Sister Sarah Phelps, spoke in the gift of
tongues. Interpretation given by Sister
Paul.
	Sister McMaster said her health had not
been good, "I have only the Gospel of
Jesus Christ to live for. I have never
doubted this Latter-day work.”
	Sister Mary Mair, "I must bear my
testimony of the truth of this Gospel.
May the Lord bless us and keep us humble.
Closing remarks by President Mrs. Horne,
announced that our stake conference would
convene four weeks from today. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Closed by sing-
ing, "Mid scenes of confusion.” Benedic-
tion by Julia Howe.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF TRAVELS.
BROOKVILLE IND. JAN. 6TH 1896.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:––I will endeavor to give
you a brief sketch of my trip or visit East. 
	I left Salt Lake City on the tenth of last

[Column 2]
October in company with my little son,
Lynne, reaching Denver the next day,
where I spent several days with my
daughter who is teaching in one of the
public schools, and my son Robbie who is
with her and attending school. I enjoyed
my stay there very much, as well as the
great Carnival in progress during our stay,
we witnessed numerous parades one par-
ticularly striking, being an evening display
of “The slaves of the silver kings.”
 	On the 19th, we took the train for Pitts-
burg, the smoky city of Pennsylvania,
having to lay over four hours at Kansas
City, I met my sister-in-law, Mrs Frank
Tower, she was much pleased to see me
“as it was the first time.” At 9 p. m. we
again moved on to the great city of St. Louis
where we remained six hours, while wait-
ing we took a carriage drive through the
principal streets to suburbs of the city in-
cluding, Forest Park, enjoyed our ride and
sights of the city very much. From here
we crossed Illinois, Indiana, my native state
and Ohio The prairies seemed exceedingly
tame and common-place after our noble
mountain scenery, but the latter two states
were crossed in the dark, we visited relatives
in Pittsburg four days and then rode out
twenty five miles to Valencia where I was
met by my only sister living, Mrs. Hannah
Bailey whom I had not seen for forty years,
as may well be imagined it was a happy
meeting. For two weeks we spent the time
in becoming acquainted as it were, when
we together started for Cincinnati. Here
we stayed three weeks with relatives. We
sat down to thanksgiving dinner with my
father’s youngest sister Mrs. R. Walker.
Her only living sister Mrs. Margaret Heap
lives in Wyoming, and is a member of our
Church, the only one, she is about eighty
six years of age. The Ohio river had so
little water in its channel that no boats were
running, so I was disappointed of riding on
the river.
	It was a wonderful sight at Pittsburg to
see the numbers of barges, awaiting a rise
that they might float to market, the two
rivers forming the Ohio were covered with
these fleets for miles.
	On the twenty ninth of November we
came to this place over the Valley Railroad,
the entire distance winding up a river valley
reaching here at 7 p. m. where we were
met by the daughter of my uncle A. C.
Miller and conducted to their hospitable
home where we received a hearty welcome
from the remainder of the family, uncle,
aunt and two other cousins. Uncle and
aunt are both past seventy and raised five
children never having had a death in the
family.
	At this place I found a cousin Mrs.
Elizabeth Bailey, who at eighty four lives
alone and attends to her property and
business. William Beesley another cousin,
after a few days drove over from the neigh-
borhood of my old home and en route we
pass the old hamlet of Mt. Carmel, the
home of the gifted poetess, M. Louisa
Chitwood, the pet of the noted George D.
Prentiss, she died at the early age of twenty-
two. Here after a few days my sister bade
me goodbye and returned to her home.
Amid these home scenes I met many rela-
tives and old friends, though a number
have passed away, and some have moved to
other parts. I visited my childhood home
and the home of my parents, emotions too
strong for utterance crowded my bosom as
I entered that good old house erected by my


On the 28th we started for home travel-
ing up the River, camped at the Beaver
Dam on the 29th and arrived home in the
evening, having traveled two hundred and
thirty miles.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was held
Dec. 14th, in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Present on the stand of the Cen-
tral Board, President Z. D. H. Young,
Counselors Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith: E. B. Wells, Sec., and Elmina S.
Taylor, Prest. Y. L. M. I. A. and Mary Ann
Hyde President of the Relief Society in
Sanpete Stake. Meeting commenced by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel, ” prayer by
Clara C. Cannon; continued singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Roll
called, forty-one branches represented.
Minutes of the morning session of the prev-
ious conference read and approved. President
Horne was more than pleased to see so many
present and so many societies represented,
we should not allow ourselves to be
negligent in attending to our duties, and in
order to have wisdom and judgment we
should come together and receive such in-
struction as should come to us from time to
time. The presidents should see that the
teachers who are really missionaries are
prompt and faithful in performing their
duties; they should never indulge in gos-
sip, and always discourage it in others as
well as the spirit of fault-finding, doing all
they can to bring harmony and peace: let
us be humble and prayerful that we may
retain the spirit and blessings of the Gos-
pel.
	Verbal reports of the different wards
were then called for; first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,
eighteenth and North Jordan Wards were
reported as being in excellent working order.
Sister E. Pixton made some very encourag-
ing remarks, and urged the sisters to warn
the mothers to look after the young, and
protect them from the many evils that are
among us.
	Meeting closed by singing Doxology.
Prayer by President M. I. Horne.
	Afternoon session convened at 2. p. m.
commenced by singing, “O ye mountains
high.” Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing,
“O say what is truth.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous confer-
ence read and approved. The Riverton,
Granite, Pleasant Green, Union, Big Cot-

[Column 2]
ton Wood, West Jordan, Center, Sandy,
Mill Creek, South Cotton Wood, Draper,
Farmer’s, Hunter and East Mill Creek were
reported.
	President M. I. Horne was greatly
pleased and encouraged with the report
which had been given and encouraged the
sisters to be constant and attentive in per-
forming their labors.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke at
some length upon the great advantage of
the work accomplished through our society,
there were very few who are so infirm but
that they can do some good to others as
well as the improvement we need for our-
selves. The Lord will strengthen us if we
will only endeavor to serve him and perform
that work which is expected of us in ad-
ministering comfort and consolation to the
distressed, afflicted and those who are cast
down.
	President M. A. Hyde said, “we have
been very highly favored in being here to-
day to hear such words of love and en-
couragement. I find the same spirit of
union among the sisters of our society
wherever I go. Yet while we are enjoy-
ing this spirit, we should not forget, that
there are many influences here in Zion, and
have a watch care over our sons and
daughters; and try to keep them pure and
spotless from the sins of the world.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said, "I trust we all
feel and realize the great blessings we have;
this is a time when we need to be prayerful,
that we may perform the important duties
which devolve upon us, we do need the
spirit of the Lord to guide us under all cir-
cumstances. How I wish all the sisters
of this stake were here today to partake of
the blessings that have been received, for
they would be better prepared to go on
with their work.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and urged the secretaries to be
prompt in sending their six months reports
in after Dec. 31st.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Meeting closed by singing, “Praise to the
man who communed” etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde.
MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.

ST. GEORGE STAKE.
Dear Sister Wells:
	Sister Juie McDonald and myself left St.
George on the 22nd, of November, in com-
pany with Bishop George F. Jarvis and
Samuel Miles, who were going as mis-
sionaries to Bunkerville, also the settle-
ments on the Muddy: we were in the in-
terest of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. It is the first
time we have visited this part of the stake,
it is a hard road, and few chances to get
there. It snowed the day we left St.
George, but we did not suffer, as we went
prepared for it; we traveled down the river
to Albert Franer’s about two miles the
other side of the Beaver Dams; here we
were made very welcome by Brother
Franer and family. There are about six
families, they have a good rock school
house and every facility for a good school
which is successfully taught by Charley
Miles. This is a thrifty settlement and a
people that know how to make a living.
It is in the north west corner of Arizona.
	On the 23rd of Nov., we left for Bunker-
ville, crossing the Rio Virgen River a great
number of times. When we were nearing

[Column 3]
Bunkerville, the braces on our carriage
tongue broke and left us in the river;
through the kindness of our esteemed friend
George F. Jarvis we were carried out, and
landed on terra firma. The brethren had
to get into the water which was anything
but agreeable We got the vehicle fixed
so it took us to Bunkerville; where we were
kindly entertained by Bishop Bunker and
family, we held a Primary meeting, here
we met a nice lot of children. In the even-
ing the reorganization of the Relief Society
was effected and we put them in a position
to do business the same as the other as-
sociations.
	The 24th, Sunday, we met with the sab-
bath school and found the young people
quite progressive, the afternoon meeting
was well attended, a good spirit prevailed,
at the close we met with the Relief Society
and we felt well to meet with the sisters
here and talk over their interests. They
own a lot containing an almond orchard
also a granary, and something over a
hundred bushels of wheat. We advised
them to make what improvements they
could, and turn their almonds into grain,
and store it against the time of need, as
that time is surely coming, that the prophets
have spoken of. The 25th, we started for
the Muddy, here we got a spring wagon
from Father Bunker, left our carriage to be
fixed, traveling down the river some dis-
tance, turning to the right we ascended a
hill, and traveled over a very barren
country. We next came to the famous
Virgen hill, we recognized the hand of the
Lord in our carriage breaking in the river
instead of this hill, as it would have been
sure death to some of our party; it looks as
if the country had been burnt all over,
there is nothing living or growing on it but
some Joshaways, that look like sentinels
with their arms stretched out.
	About eight o’clock we arrived at St.
Joseph and were entertained by Brother
Huntsman and family, who had a very
sick child.
	On the 26th, we met with the people of
this settlement and organized a Relief
Society and Primary. Sister Juie enter-
tained the children with the exercises, she
has the happy faculty of creating an inter-
est in them that is pleasing. At Overton
on the 26th, the missionaries held a meet-
ing in the afternoon with the people when
a reorganization of the Relief Society was
effected. In the evening we met with the
primary at Sister Johnson’s house, she is
president of the association, we had a very
interesting time, here we found more boys
than girls. This is a rare occurrence.
Bishop Jones honored us with his presence
at this meeting, which we appreciated.
	On the 27th, we continued our journey
to St. Thomas, where we met with the
people, and organized a Relief Society,
Mutual and Primary associations. The
people seemed pleased to have these or-
ganizations, and we trust they will be alive
to their duties. We know there is a bless-
ing in doing our duty Here we found
Sister Mary Bunker very sick, she was a
very estimable young woman. I think she
had only been married to Brother John
Bunker about two months, she is a
daughter of Brother Luke Syphus of Pan-
acca; she died a few days after we were there.
We feel to sympathize with the bereaved
ones in this affliction; we spent the night
with Brother Whitney and family, who
made us very welcome.


of Utah have recently been admitted to full
enfranchisment, therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we extend to them our
hearty congratulations upon their promotion
to full citizenship; and also that we hereby
endeavor to express our gratitude to the
men of those states for that justice done wo-
man, and our admiration for the manliness
and courage of their action.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	SISTER DORINDA M. SLADE died Nov. 21st,
1895, at the residence of her daughter Eliza A.
Lloyd, after a lingering illness of eight months.
She fell on the ice and broke her arm on the 26th
of March last, and has been confined to her bed
ever since; although her arm was perfectly healed
before her death.
	She was born Jan. 15th, 1808, joined the church
in the fall of 1850, came to Utah in 1856, moved
to Dixie in 1857, and settled in Pine Valley in
1858. She was elected president of Pine Valley
Relief Society, April 1st, 1873, which position she
held until Sept. 16th, 1894, a period of over
twenty one years and resigned at this time on ac-
count of failing health.
	She was the mother of eight children only three
of whom are now living, but she lived to see the
fifth generation of her posterity.
	Dear Sister Slade has now left us, she has gone
to Heaven above, it is God who has bereft us of
her whom we dearly love. In the Relief Society
she has been true and has worked as none bnt
she could do. We shall miss her, yes miss her
one and all; but on our Father in Heaven we
must call. It is hard to part with loved ones,
but God knows what is best, and we must put
our trust in Him then He will do the rest. Her
loved name will never perish, her good deeds
we’ll ever cherish. She has gone from before
our face, a moment’s time, a little space.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Pine Valley Relief Society
to the memory of Dorinda M. Slade.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action, our beloved ex-presi-
dent Dorinda M. Slade.
	Resolved that we do recognize in the death of
Sister Slade the loss of an energetic, faithful and
reliable friend. A comforter in the hour of
trouble, a devoted wife and mother and a true
Latter-day Saint, that we esteem her faithful
labors and devotion to the cause of Zion as
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
	Resolved that we do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family and friend.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of the Pine Valley Relief Society and
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXZONENT.
ANN R. SNOW, President.
LENORA C. GARDNER,
EMMA L. BURGESS,
BERNELLA E. GARDNER.
Committee{ ["Committee{" is written to the right of the above three lines]

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	In loving remembrance of Dena Louisa,
daughter of Lars L. and Rendena Olsen, who de-
parted this life Saturday, November 16th, 1895, at
the residence of her parents in Santaquin; aged
fourteen years, eight months and eighteen days.
Summoned by the angel death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers
and sisters. She was beloved, by all who knew her
and in the Primary Association, she was always
ready to respond to every call.

Dear one we shall think of thee,
	For many years to come;
Thy smiling face we ne’er shall see.
	For God has called thee home.
Why do we mourn? She is not lost,
Beyond the river she has crossed,
And on that bright, celestial shore,
Our loved one waits the coming o’er.

	We as officers and members of the Primary
Association unanimously adopt the following
resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the parents, brothers
and sisters in their heavy bereavement and we
tender them our heartfelt sympathy.
	Resolved that we adopt these resolutions as a
token of respect, that we present a copy to her
parents, and publish the same in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and place a copy on onr records.
ELIZABETH WALL,
LAURA LEVANDER,
MARY ECKERSLEY.
Committee{ ["Committee{" is written to the right of the above three lines]


MARY L. P. TEASDALE.

	WE have all been painfully shocked at the loss
of our beloved sister Mary Loretta P. Teasdale,
the first counselor to President Dora W. Pratt, of
the presidency of the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Associations of the Juarez Stake of
Zion, and president of the Stake presidency of
the Primary Associations who has been so faithful
and devoted in her much appreciated labors.
Sister Teasdale has been ailing for some time but
would not give up, but during the last five weeks
she had been confined to her room, faithfully
waited on by her family and Sister Phoebe I.
Allred, her nurse. All that affection could sug-
gest in help given and faithful administration and
fervent prayers were offered in hopes her life and
usefulness might be continued on earth, but it
has pleased our Father in heaven to take her
from this probationary estate to labor in a brighter
and higher sphere.
	Sister M. L. P. Teasdale was born May 26th,
1863, at Nephi, Juab county, Utah. She was the
daughter of James and Jane Picton. She has al-
ways been devoted to the cause of the Redeemer.
Nearly four years of her life was spent in the
Liverpool office and many of the missionaries
will remember her kindly services. She had been
a devoted laborer in the Mexican mission in the
Relief Society, Young Ladies Improvement and
Primary Associations, advocating the principles of
the everlasting Gospel and bearing a faithful
testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the establishment of the
Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth in these
last days. She was an intelligent woman well in-
formed in the doctrines of Christ and the Bible
and Book of Mormon Scriptures, and the life of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her lectures were al-
ways interesting and instructive.
	Her funeral obsequies were held on Sunday,
Dec. 15th, in the Jaurez ward school house. The
officers and members of Y. L M. I. and Primary
Associations met at her residence and the children
sang the Primary hymn, “Great Shepherd of the
Sheep.” Then a procession was formed to the
school house. Bishop George W. Sevey presided.
The house was filled to overflowing, the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ Improvement and Primary
Associations being fully represented with all the
officers and members. The choir sang the
hymn: “Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
their wearied bodies down.” Patriarch William
R. R. Stowell offered prayer. Choir sang: “It is
well.” Counselor Miles P. Romney and Elder
Edward Stevenson preached the funeral discourse.
Their remarks were full of consolation and en-
couragement, as they testified to the faithful
labors of the departed, the value of a well spent
life and the certain recompense of reward in a
glorious resurrection. The choir sang: “Nearer
my God to Thee.” Benediction was pronounced
by Elder Miles P. Romney. Then the congrega-
tion took a last look at the calm, pale face of the
deceased, and a long procession followed to the
graveyard, where the body was consigned to the
tomb, Bishop George W. Sevey offering the
dedicatory prayer.
	A great deal of affectionate sympathy and con-
dolence have been manifested to the family by the
Saints, for her loss is a public one, she was be-
loved by all.
UN ERMANO.


OBITUARY.
	DIED Nov. 10th, 1895 in the Sixth Ward, Salt
Lake City, Utah, at her residence, Elizabeth Lee
Britton, at the age of seventy-five years, eleven
months and nine days.
	Deceased was born in Southam, Warwickshire,
England, on the 19th, of December 1819. She
was married to Elder Britton, 21st of April 1837.
Was baptized and confirmed into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, June 27, 1847.
With her husband and children left her native
land 9th of June 1851; after enduring many hard-
ships during the voyage arrived at New Orleans:
June 15th, 1851, arrived at Council Bluffs remain-
ing there nine months, during which time she suf-
fered from fever and ague; June 6th, 1852 she with
her husband and children, came to Salt Lake
City making their home in the Sixth Ward, where
she resided up to the time of her demise. She
was set apart to act as second Counselor to
President Fulmer in the Relief Society. March
1st, 1883, after the death of President Fulmer,
first Counselor Isabella West being chosen as
President, Sister Britton was chosen as first
Counselor to her in the Relief Society, to which
office she was set apart, Oct. 5th, 1892, which
position she filled at the time of her death. She


has ever been faithful in the discharge of her
duties; possessed of a kind and generous heart,
won many true friends.
	She was never tired of bearing testimony to
the divinity of the mission of Prophet Joseph
Smith and the truth of the gospel. Bishop J. C.
Watson spent many hours with her during her
illness and her testimony of the truth never
wavered, but left an impression on her children and
on those who ministered to her wants to the end.
	She was the mother of thirteen children
had fifty-four grand-children, and twenty-
one great-grand-children.
	Beloved of those who knew her she now rests
in peace awaiting the resurrection of the just.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To Elizabeth Lee Britton who departed this
life Nov. 15th, 1895, we her co laborers in meeting
assembled deem it fitting that we record our ap-
preciation of her labors.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved counselor
and friend, Sister Britton.
	Resolved that we do recognize in her death the
loss of a kind faithful counselor and friend; a
comforter in time of trouble, also a true Latter-
day Saint, a devoted wife and mother. We es-
teem her faithful labors and devotion to the gos-
pel as worthy of emulation to every member of
our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved children and friends, in the loss of a
loving and devoted mother and sincere friend and
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of the Sixth Ward Relief Society and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, also one 
to her friends.
					ELIZABETH W. CONDIE


THE HEART HAS AN EYE.
“Don’t talk so silly” the wise man said
And the words made the darling cry
Then out from his heart there came a look 
Which quick her tears did dry.
Then their lips met together and music made
Like a singing bird flying by
For love she saw behind the words
Saw him plain with her own hearts eye.
For the heart has an eye of such wondrous
power
That it sees far beyond the light
And what to the eyes of the head seem dark,
To the eye of the heart is bright.
				IRENE ACKERMAN.


UNDER the heading “Only a Woman,”
the New Orleans Picayune thus justly and
succinctly comments upon the latest case of
lynchiug:
	The burning to death of a defenceless
woman who was about to become a
mother, by an armed mob of fifty men,
near Lebanon Ky., was one of the most
brutal and cowardly crimes that ever black-
ened the fair fame of a civiliz d community.
	The woman's sin was unfaithfulness to
her husband.
	If a mob of women shonld go about
the country burning all the men who are
unfaithful to their wives what an illumina-
tion there would be! The very heavens
would be lighted up.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

