Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1895. No. 10.


CONTENTS:

Letter From Nauvoo—E. J. S. Utah W. S. A.
—Nellie Little. R. S. Report—Cardston Canada
—Jane W. Bates. Relief Society Conference—
E. B. Wells. An Open Letter From Dr. Elvira
Stevens Barney. Conference N. A. W. S. A.
In Rural England—A Story. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Women Should Work For State-
hood.
	POETRY:—Who Knows—Selected. Wedding
Bells—Lydia D. Alder.


WHO KNOWS.

Who knows we have not lived before
	In forms that felt delight and pain?
If death is not the open door
	Through which we pass to life again?
The fruitful seed beneath the sod
	In infant bud and bloom may rise;
But by the eternal law’s of God
	It is not quickened till it dies,
The leaves that tremble on the tree,'
	Fall neath the stroke of autumn’s storms
But by some mighty mystery.
	With spring return in other forms.
As currents of the surging sea,
	From undiscovered sources flow—'
So what we were and yet may be
	In this brief life we may not know.
But oft some unexpected gleams -
	Of past and unremembered years,
Break through the doorway of our dreams
	And some familiar face appears—
A kindred spirit lost awhile,
	Amid the change from death to birth.
Whose beaming eye and loving smile ..
	Recall some former scenes of earth.
And thus unconscious of the tie—
	The mystic link that love creates—
Perhaps we see our own who die,
	In newer forms and other states. 
Perhaps with every cycle passed.
	In all the ages yet to be.
Our loved will come to us at last,
	As parted waters find the sea—.
Not wholly clad as they were seen
	When death unbound their robes of clay;
But with seraphic face, and mien
	And souls that may not pass away.
SELECTED.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM NAUVOO.
Mrs E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR SISTER:—Here we are in this,
once delightful spot once so dear to the
Saints, our party consisting of Elder An-
drew Kimball, wife and children, Edward
Stevenson and wife, Sister Lyon and six
young Elders, left our mountain home
Wednesday Sept. 4th, 9 a. m. on the U. P.,
arrived in Denver on the 5th at 7 a. m.
Spent the day taking in some of the sights,
the rest of the company meeting us there.
Left Denver 8-p. m., arriving in St. John
Kansas, Saturday 12th, 10 a. m., having
had a very enjoyable trip with the excep-
tion of its being so excessively warm At

[Column 2]
the station we were met by nearly all of the
Elders in the Indian Mission, to say the
least we had a very pleasant and profitable
visit in St John; having spent five days
there, welcomed on every hand not only by
the Saints, but also by all not of our faith,
with whom we came in contact. There
are some most excellent people in that part
of the vineyard and it seems to me there is
a great work to be done; there are also
laboring among them, some of the most
noble of Zion’s sons, faithful and true as
usual. The new meeting house which was
dedicated on Sabbath afternoon, Sept. 8th,
is a monument of their usefulness, not only
spiritually but also physically, to these
young Elders who laid off their coats and
put on over-alls and erected it, will the
blessings be ascribed! We had a most ex-
cellent conference which has been written
up to several of the papers also lectures
and concerts in the evening, (occupying all
the time) in which the talent of our boys
as well as some of our sisters were made
manifest; being given on such short notice
there was no time for preparation, two of
our Elders being ill with chills and fever
(which is very prevalent in these parts) and
another one being taken ill was the only
drawback to our pleasure; but these were
all made better by the blessings of the
Lord, for which we felt to praise His holy
name. Wednesday evening we called on
Mr. Pinkerton the leader of one of the
off-shoots of the true Church (from him have
also dissented several others,) we had a
pleasant chat but while conversing with
him I could not help but draw the compari-
son between our own revered President W.
Woodruff and him, also Presidents Young
and Taylor. Poor old man there he is left
with but a few, yet he feels that he is right.
	Thursday 12th, 6 a. m. we took an
affectionate farewell of our friends in St.
John and proceeded on to Kansas City,
where we sojourned for a time, then took
train for Independence twelve miles, where
we arrived 6-30 p. m.; being very weary
we felt thankful for a night's rest, but alas!
the weather was so oppressive that the rest
was not what we desired. Next day 13th,
three of our Elders having met us we all
visited the Temple Block there we remained
for some time; holding converse, also in-
voking Divine protection to continue with
it, having spent a very happy time, we
visited other places of interest then went on
to Kansas City, visited some time with our
boys, then bade them God speed invoking
divine blessings to rest upon them in con-
nection with all the rest, these having been
assigned to labor in the Indian Territory.
We again returned to Independence, next
morning, 14th, we visited Mr. Hill, the
President of the Hedrickite Church, had
a very pleasant conversation, took leave
then repaired to the magnificent Court-
house visited there, ascended to the top,
whence we took a grand view of the sur-
rounding country, which certainly is very
beautiful we again took train for Kansas
City where we took train for Cameron ar-
riving there at 9 a. m., after a refreshing
night’s rest, next day, 15th, we took con-

[Column 3]
veyance for Far West where we spent, a
most interesting time though very seriously
reflecting upon scenes of the past, we also
called on Mr. Whitmer, a nephew of David
Whitmer whose uncle was one of the three
witnesses, to the Book of Mormon, who
received us very kindly, himself and wife,
showing us their lovely home and surround-
ings; our visit over we returned to Camer-
on, where we took train for Galletin, arriv-
ing there 9 p. m., next day 16th, we again
took conveyance, visit Mill Port, then pro-
ceed on to Adam-ondi-ahman. Dear sis-
ters could any one ever understand the feel-
ings that we experienced while visiting
these waste places of Zion; it is easier
imagined than expressed, at this place we
spent several hours meditating and pray-
ing, etc. Returning next morning, 17th,
6 a. m. we again take train for Cameron,
arriving 7-30 a. m. and at 8-30 a. m. we
take a very reluctant leave of our dear
friends; our party having dwindled away
until there were left but two of us; how-
ever we proceeded on our journey, taking
train 9-30 for Brekenridge, arriving there
11 a.m. again taking conveyance for
Haun’s Mill, but alas! every souvenir of
the sacred spot is almost extinct; a place
made sacred because of seventeen precious
lives, having been sacrificed there; then the
remains buried in a well. O, the anguish
of my soul while walking over that sacred
spot remembering the widows and father-
less, they have done all in their power to
obliterate every recognition of the place;
Mr. Stevenson having visited it seven
years ago, could tell by measurement; they
have ploughed the ground and planted corn
which stands from 15 to 20 feet high, so
that a stranger could not possibly tell where
the Black Smith Shop once stood; we, how-
ever, by seeking carefully, found cinders
mixed in with the soil, where the chimney
had been; the people in that neighborhood
do not like to speak on that subject, several
expressed themselves as its being a most
terrible affair and should rather never again
hear it mentioned; we returned to Breken-
ridge where we took evening train for
Montrose via Quincy, arriving. 6-30 a. m.
and reaching Montrose 10-45 a. m., 18th.
However long before arriving I discovered
(from the car windows) that once beautiful
city of Nauvoo, then so dear to the Saints;
on arriving we looked around Montrose;
there stood the steamboat “City of Nauvoo”
ready to ferry us over the Mississippi River
which of itself was quite an item to me.
	After landing we took conveyance, rode
around for some time looking at the city;
well, dear reader, accompany me for the
rest of the day if you can, more especially
in the afternoon while walking about;
many times when reading or hearing about
Nauvoo, have I wished in my heart that I
could visit that sacred spot of Earth, but
never for one moment did I indulge the
hope of really seeing it, but here I am
verily walking those very identical streets
that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
while in life walked so many, many times;
the emotions of my soul I never could
describe, was it a reality or was it a dream?


[Column 1]
Then on, being shown the spot in the river,
where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead,
with my associations in the house of the
Lord, the thoughts that crowded themselves
in my mind, were very many; I really
imagined that I could see him. We then
visited the cottage where the Prophet first
lived then the Mansion where the remains
were brought and visited by so many sor-
rowing Saints; read in the life of P. P.
Pratt page 370—71, for description of
feelings, but the grand sight for dwellings
on the river’s edge, were my admiration;
what grand ideas of the beautiful our
Prophet must have possessed; on visiting
the mansion I really discovered many
changes by what had been told me; on in-
quiry I found I was not mistaken, part
has been torn down, the Nauvoo house has
been built up some what; but of course
never completed, we found many kind
friends who were more than willing to
show and explain things to us; after wan-
dering about from place to place, we then
repaired to the Catholic Church, a very
creditable edifice, with a spire 150 feet high
which we ascended, having obtained per-
mission from the Priest, a very genial gen-
tleman, whom Mr. Stevenson had met on a
previous visit. The view from the spire is
simply grand, the church is built on the
corner across the street south of the block
where on the Temple stood; the Priest
occupies Apostle P. P. Pratt’s house, which
seems in very good condition; of the Tem-
ple there is not one stone left upon another,
there are stores built upon the block, also
vacant places sown in grass, there is
one large store built of the beautiful rock,
the rest, I was informed on inquiring, was
carried away piece by piece until it all dis-
appeared.
	I inquired the population and was in-
formed it numbered 1,300; imagine my
surprise, though I knew by appearances it
was not numerous, what I said “from 25 to
30,000 dwindled to 1,300, how do you ac-
count for this?’’ “Well,’’ the answer came,
“people cannot make a living, no rail-road,
no street cars, no enterprise,” but plenty of
vineyard and wine making,surely the bless-
ing of the Lord has not rested upon this
city since the expulsion of the Saints.
	Being fatigued beyond satisfaction we re-
paired to the Hotel, “The Oriental,” com-
fortable quarters, with a most kind, genial
landlady. Thursday morning 18th, after
a most comfortable night’s rest, feeling
quite refreshed, we prepared to take leave,
having obtained a nice piece of the Temple
rock from our kind friend and hostess and
with a kindly parting we then take a short
ride through the city, go to the upper land-
ing, take passage on the steamer, Ottum-
way Bell, had a very pleasant passage to
Keokuk arriving before noon; after din-
ner we took in as much of the city as pos-
sible; next morning we again took steamer
for Quincy, Ills. We again took in all we
could of that city, having visited the
Soldier’s Home which certainly is a won-
derful establishment; we were escorted
through, then taken to the Club House
where they prepare ten bushels of potatoes
at once, we saw them already peeled, every
thing else in proportion; an immense larder
well filled, we take the evening train for
Chicago, arriving next morning; Saturday
21st, we again took in sights in that grand
city, all day, retiring to our apartments at
night, next morning, Sunday 22nd, taking
leave 6 a. m. we proceed on to Elgin, ar-

[Column 2]
riving about 10 a. m., we proceeded to see our
most interesting subject, David Smith.
After considerable many obstructions being
removed, we come in his presence, after the
usual salutations and a little embarrass-
ment on his part, we had a very pleasant
conversation of about one hour; after which
by permission, he escorted us to his flower
beds which he assists in cultivating, spoke
very intelligently on the subject, wishing
to know if we should like some flowers of
his cultivating, which we very readily ac-
cepted and prized them very highly, hav-
ing brought them home; we had really a very
interesting time with him which I prize
beyond expression, having known him dur-
ing his sojourn in our city, I have always
entertained a very kindly feeling for him,
he is so refined in his manners and his
language is faultless,a perfect gentleman in
all his ways, may the Lord have mercy on
him and preserve him from all evil, we
took a very kindly leave of him.
	Being unable to return until late in the
evening we attended a Salvation Army
meeting, had an excellent time, then by
invitation took supper with a very spiritual
minded family, had a most interesting time
and as usual tried to sow all the good seed
we could; after an affectionate leave taking
and many wishes that we should stay over
night we returned to our apartment quite
late; next day, 23rd, we again took in what
we could of that great city among the rest,
having visited the Masonic Temple, that
wonderful structure, 21 stories high, the
view from the top is something wonderful,
taking in the beautiful Lake Michigan and
the country around for miles, we took the
evening train for home, sweet home, arriv-
ing Thursday evening 7 p. m., nothing un-
usual happening, with the exception of a
six hours delay, a few miles east of Thom-
son Springs caused by a breaking in the
cinder pan of the locomotive, feeling truly
thankful for a safe arrival and finding all
well at home.
	E. J. S.


WOMANS EXPONENT


UTAH W. S. A.
	AN executive meeting of the Utah Ter-
ritorial W. S. A. was held Oct 7th, 1895,
10 a. m. in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie presiding, prayer
by Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Sanpete Co.
The secretary read the call, the minutes of
the last Annual Executive session and let-
ters from Miss Susan B. Anthony. The
treasurer read her report naming the amount
of fees received from the counties, and the
amount disbursed. The reports of the
secretary and treasurer were accepted. Mrs.
Wells stated that as suffrage was virtually
obtained in Utah, she wished to hear the
sentiment of the members in respect to the
continuation of suffrage associations.
Several ladies responded. All favored the
existence of suffrage clubs in the future.
They thought it the duty of all to work for
the enfranchisement of women until universal
suffrage should be obtained.
	The motion by Dr. E. B. Ferguson to
maintain suffrage as a state Association was
unanimously adopted. The officers for the
ensuing year were nominated to be pre-
sented to the general convention convening
at 2. p. m. Adjournment.
	The Annual Convention of the Territorial
W. S. A. was held Oct. 7, 1895, at 2 p. m.
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Mrs. Em-


meline B. Wells presiding. Singing
“Columbia’s Daughters.” Prayer by
Bishop Adams of Iron Co. Singing,
“New America.” The election of officers
was as follows, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
President; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Vice
President at Large; Mrs. Electa Bullock,
Provo, Second Vice President; Mrs. Lucy
A. Clark, Davis, Third Vice President;
Mary A. White, of Beaver, Fourth Vice
President. Mrs. Margaret Caine, Record-
ing Secretary; Mrs. Augusta Grant, Corres-
ponding Secretary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
Treasurer. Phoebe Y. Beattie, Chairman
of the Executive Committee. Ruth M.
Fox, Elizabeth Price, Mary P. Silver,
Elizabeth McCune, Elizabeth McFarlane,
all of Salt Lake. Kate Hilliard, Weber;
Sarah A. Boyer, Springville, Utah; Alvira
L. Cox, Manti, Sanpete Co. Vina Tingy,
Juab; Elizabeth Wright, Cache; Joanna
Patten, Provo, Utah Co. Esther Francis,
Morgan, Morgan Co; Maria Miller Johnson,
Circleville, Piute Co. Eugenie Pierce,
Box Elder, Members of the Executive
Committee.
	The President called for reports from the
County Organizations, which were thus
represented, Mrs. M. A. White reported
Beaver Co. Organization; Mrs. Paulina
Lyman, Iron Co; Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
Davis; Mrs. Ruth M. Fox, Salt Lake; Mrs.
Hannah Lapish, American Fork of Utah
Co.; Mrs. Helena Madsen, Manti, of
Sanpete Co. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honor-
ary President, offered this resolution to the
Constitutional Convention, “I wish to
move that we in convention assembled ex-
press our grateful appreciation of the gen-
erous and earnest efforts of the noble men
constituting the majority of the Constitu-
tional Convention, and we pledge our best
efforts to help uplift the standard of City,
County and State politics.” Convention
adjourned.
			NELLIE M. LITTLE, Sec.


The citizens of Paris have named a
street after Maria Deraismes the able wo-
man suffrage advocate and leader in France
who died recently.
	The Racine, Wis, Times, has moved in-
to a new building of its own and made
great improvements in its outfit. Since
the death of the business manager, Mr.
Willis, the name of Olympia Brown Willis
appears as the head of the Publishing Co.
Mrs. Willis, known to our readers as Rev.
Olympia Brown, is a speaker of such ability
that it is a pity that she should be of
necessity tied down to business cares, al-
though she is making a success of her
present undertaking.—Ex.
	MRS. CHARLTON EDHOLM spoke on
“Traffic in Girls, and Florence Crittenden
Missions,” at the National Purity Congress
in Baltimore Md. Oct. 14th. Mrs. Edholm
asserted that of the two hundred and thirty
thousand erring girls in the country, over
half had been snared and bought and sold
into their lives of shame.
“Their average life is five years. Forty-
six thousand are carted out to the Potters’
Field every year. Over a hundred Ameri-
can homes have to be desolated every day
to recruit the ranks of shame. Twenty
million Christians can rescue 230,000 err-
ing girls, or surely the religion of the Lord 
Jesus is a failure.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WEDDING BELLS.

	[To my Children George Alfred and Elise.]

O, LOVED ones commencing Life’s journey,
	O’er an unknown dangerous way,
Pledge your hearts yet more firmly together 
	On this your nuptial day.
May the bright skies of love sweetly beaming,
	May the glories of Life’s golden sheen,
Throw gladness and joy in your pathway,
	And never a cloud come between.
May you ever be true and faithful 
	To the vows at the altar you’ve given;
May the trust and the faith of your fireside,
	Prove but a foretaste of Heaven.
But should the dark day of trial,
	Ever your pathway cross o’er,
Then clasp hands more firmly together,
	And the aid of our Father implore.
Could you think of a glorious landscape,
	Where never a shadow was seen?
Then where would the shading and color,
	Bring the light and the’dark between.
So were Life one continuous morning, 
	Or even a glorious noon-day,
’Twould be dull and uninteresting
	With no shadows cast over the way.
So the journey of Life is given,
	To climb to the hills of the blest,
Tho’ descending deep down in the valley
	Yet ends in the haven of rest.
So be true forever and ever,
	Pledge your lives both now and for aye;
Come sorrow, come trial, stand together,
	And wait for the glorious day. 
Let the incense of prayer oft ascending
	To our Father and God above,
Bear witness that He is remembered,
	By hearts that are warmed by His love.
Then will He bless you forever,
	And clasped in the arms of His love,
You will stand and never falter,
	’Till He calls you to dwell above.
O, then with the loved gone before us
	Your sisters and brother too,
May we drink of life everlasting 
	Where old things give place to the new.
	Your mother's prayer and blessing.
	LYDIA D. ALDER.
Salt Lake, Oct. 9, 1895.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

CARDSTON, CANADA.
	THE Relief Society of the Alberta Stake
of Zion convened in the meeting house
Oct. 5th, in a conference capacity, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Stake Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf presiding. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf. Singing, “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.” The stake
officers roll was called, showing eight of-
ficers present. Minutes of previous confer-
ence read and approved.
	President Sarah B. Daines was called up-
on to report the Cardston Society over which
she presides. She gave a very good report
and spoke of the good work the sisters are
doing, and of the unity that exists among
them, spoke briefly on the rearing of child-
ren and the necessity of teaching them
strict obedience.
	President M. L. Woolf rejoiced in meet-
ing with the sisters in this conference, “this
is a day of the general conference of our

[Column 2]
church where many of our people will be
gathered to listen to inspired words from
our leaders," hoped we might have a goodly
portion of the same spirit that they will en-
joy, spoke of the efficacy of holy consecrated
oil, and of the blessings the sisters have ob-
tained by its administration, also spoke on
the rearing of our children, if they are
taught to obey and respect their parents
they will obey the priesthood, asked the
blessings of the Lord upon all assembled.
	Counselor Sarah Layton reported the
Mountain View Society as working together
in unison, although in a scattered condition;
felt to do her duty and asked God to bless
all.
	Counselor Mary Lowe made some good
remarks, spoke on the duties of mother-
hood, felt that mothers should watch their
every word and action, and set worthy ex-
amples before our children.
	Sister Ann E. Leavitt said we have need
to be thankful for our comfortable surround-
ings and for the goodly portion of the
Spirit of God we enjoy, we need his spirit
at all times to assist us in bringing up our
children.
	Singing, “The Songs of the Heart.”
	President Catherine Pilling gave a favor-
able report of the Relief Society of Ætna,
“All are trying to do the best they can in
their scattered condition,” asked the bless-
ings of God upon all, that we may grow
and increase in good works.
	Sister Martha Archibald, Annie Baker
and Sarah Broadbent, each bore a faithful
testimony and made some interesting re-
marks.
	Sister Sarah Hinman said, “Our children
are given to us of the Lord, we should
strive to teach them those principles that
will lead them back into his presence and
we need his spirit to assist us in doing so.
	Sister Gregson bore her testimony and
related her experience in receiving the
Gospel.
	President M. Woolf said we should re-
frain from saying we cannot say any thing
to edify, as all had a testimony to bear and
could say a word of the hand-dealing of our
Father unto us, felt to bless Sister May.
	Sister R. May thanked the sisters for
their kind feelings, felt to be humble and
prayerful, desired the Spirit of God to as-
sist her at all times.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor Rhoda
Hinman.
	The afternoon meeting began at 2 p. m.
President M. L. Woolf presiding. Singing
“Lo, the mighty God appearing.” Prayer
by President Sarah B. Daines. Singing,
“Come O Thou King of Kings.” Coun-
selor Rhoda Hinman spoke on the life of
Joseph the Prophet and of the many ex-
cellent traits of his character, had heard
him speak many times and felt the power
he possessed, viewed the remains of those
two brothers pierced with the bullets of
their enemies; urged all to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord as it is the spirit of love,
peace and union.
	Sister Ella Nielson had been pleased with
what had been said, spoke on the subject of
marriage, mothers as well as daughters
should make it a matter of prayer, that by
doing so the right companion may be found
and avoid much sorrow.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Counselor Elizabeth Hammer felt that
we were blessed, knew nothing of the suf-
fering of the Saints in early days to estab-
lish this work; let us study the principles of

[Column 3]
the Gospel, and spend more time with our
children and keep them near to us that the
influence of Satan will not draw them from
us, let us all try to help each other.
	Miss Mamie Woolf had been greatly
edified in listening to the remarks made
knew the spirit of God was in our midst,
had a testimony of this work, knew it to
be the privilege of all who desire it, if we
will be humble and seek for it through
prayer and faith, spoke on the life of the
Savior.
	Miss Nellie Hinman felt that we should
appreciate our blessings, the Spirit of God
dwells with the pure in heart, let us think
more of our eternal welfare, and less of this
world’s goods.
	Stake Counselor John A. Woolf felt
pleased with the spirit of the conference;
the Lord has instituted these organizations
through His servants for our good some are
blind to their own interests and do not take
advantage of these things, we should teach
our children the consequences of bad habits,
and explain the Scriptures to them and
teach them that we have the privilege of
communing with angels, if we live for it,
prayed the spirit of their calling might
rest upon the officers and all present.
	Bishop Josiah Hammer said there had
been many good points touched upon, we
must take up a labor with our boys felt it
would be productive of good as there seemed
to be a spirit of carlessness among them, if
we are united in this we can check it, and
bring them up in the influence of the Gospel.
	President M. L. Woolf presented the
names of our honored and aged Sister Zina
D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society in all the church, and her Counselors
were presented, desired that we sustain
them with our faith and prayers, she then
presented the names of the president and
her counselors of the Alberta Stake. Said
we had been blessed to day by laying by
our labor and coming to meeting. Sister
Zina D. H. Young told us when she was
with us, she felt the same spirit here that
she felt in the temple of our God, and I feel
that we have enjoyed much of it to day,
we should seek the Lord early when our
mind and body is fresh and clear, should
give liberally of our tithes and offerings
that we may be rewarded accordingly, felt to
thank the brethren for meeting with us,
but sorry they were detained at the com-
mencement, prayed that the spirit of God
would continue with us. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice.” Conference was adjourned
for six months. Benediction by Elder
Samuel Layton.
JANE W. BATES, Sec.


MISS ALICE C. FLETCHER was elected
vice-president of the anthropological sec-
tion of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, and will be one of
its delegates to the International Congress
of American Scientists at Mexico, Oct. 15-
20.
	MAYOR SUTRO of San Francisco, has pre-
sented thirteen acres south of Golden Gate
Park to the University of California, as a
site for its new college buildings, the Board
of Regents having decided that a location
near the city is preferable to the University’s
present home at Berkeley. Mayor Sutro
will erect, on a lot adjoining the new site,
a home for his library of 300,000 volumes,
which he will present to the city, though it
may be placed under the control of the 
University.—Ex.


6d WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
t regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter: 

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
WOMEN SHOULD WORK FOR
STATEHOOD.

	THE election for Statehood and state of-
ficers in Utah is drawing near, and the
people are growing correspondingly anxious
on the momentous questions that are to be
decided by vote within a short time. Cer-
tainly the coming election is to be the most
important one in the history of the Ter-
ritory; and it is not to be wondered at that
there is some considerable enthusiasm
among both men and women on the subject.
	The question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is involved in the issue of the adop-
tion of the Constitution now very soon to
be voted upon, and it is only natural that
women who believe in equal suffrage should
be very greatly exercised as to the results
on their own account. It is more than
eight years since the women of Utah were
deprived of the franchise, which they had
enjoyed and exercised for seventeen years,
and which they appreciated as a blessing
and a privilege. The probability is that
they are soon to enter the new state full-
fledged citizens, politically equal in all re-
spects to men, and in view of this condi-
tion they have been, and are, preparing
themselves for the actual duties and
responsibilities of citizenship.
	The political meetings, primaries and
conventions, held in the interest of state-
hood, have all been educational in the
truest sense, and those who have attended
such places, and taken part in the proceed-
ings must necessarily realize what an ad-
vantage all this has been. It has been a
school of political science, and one can-
not help feeling that it will be productive of
good to those who have participated, if they
shall be wise and prudent, and careful in-
stead of becoming extremists. The wo-
men generally speaking who have been at-
tending political gatherings are not those
who have had opportunities to pursue the
studies of civil government, or political
economy in the school room or college, and
therefore the more need of this sort of
practical instruction.
	Because of the agitation of the equal suf-
frage matter in the Constitutional Conven-
tion many women attended that Convention
day after day, and heard the speeches and
listened to the proceedings, and became
somewhat familiar with the subjects pre-
sented and discussed there, and also in-
terested in these things to a certain extent;
some more than others, but all who had
thought earnestly of woman’s position be-
fore the law, must have been impressed

[Column 2]
with the ideas advanced there by the able
and eloquent speakers, who with so much
zeal and earnestness, championed the cause
of women, and endeavored to convince the
opponents of equal suffrage that it was only
just and right, that it should be embodied
in the Constitution itself instead of making
it a separate clause, or worse still, leaving it
to some future legislature in the new state.
All honor to those men who sought to ob-
tain justice for women in the new state of
Utah, and their names will be handed down
to posterity as benefactors of the race,
when woman’s true position shall make it
possible for equality in government to be
the rule and not the exception.
	But speaking advisedly it must be ap-
parent to every right minded person that
the agitation and interest in political mat-
ters which has grown out of the Conven-
tion because of the arguments pro and con
upon suffrage, has been the means of spread-
ing the knowledge of how governments
are formed and maintained, and an under-
standing of the laws which effect the well-
being of society in the city and county and
in the commonwealth.
	It cannot but be productive of good and
it is a hopeful outlook for any community
when women, the mothers and wives lay
hold of the grave questions of state, that
agitate the public mind and assist intel-
ligently to better the conditions of living
according to their best thought and high
sense of honor and honesty; when they
bring the tender conscience into the struggle
for justice and equality, and when through
careful investigation of the political situa-
tion they bring to bear that intuition and
remarkable foresight that characterizes in a
great degree most women, then men will
realize how beneficial is their help and won-
der how they could have been so long
neglectful of this new and potent element
in the management of the affairs of state.
	Every woman who loves Utah and
desires its prosperity should do her utmost
to urge men (who have the ballot) to vote
for statehood, and see to it as far as possible
that no vote shall be lost because of neglect
or indifference. Be as conscientious as
though the vote were your own and remem-
ber that one vote more or less might turn
the scale for or against.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, Oct. 3rd. The
morning session opened at 10 o’clock,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Her counselor, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, were present on the
stand, also other members of the Central
Board and a goodly number of presidents of
the Stake organizations of the Society from
a distance.  
	The congregation joined in singing,
“Redeemer of Israel,” and prayer was of-
fered by Elder George Benson from Idaho;
the usual exercises followed, and the presi-
dent made an opening address in which she
welcomed all present in her kind motherly
way, and expressed her pleasure in seeing
so many, some of whom had traveled long
distances to attend the conference. Re-
ports were given and other remarks made
by Brother Eyring of Mexico and sisters
Julia P. Lindsey, Mary S. Anderson, Em-
ma Jane Bennett and Lulu G. Richards,

[Column 2]
who represented Stakes in Idaho; Sisters
Adeline H. Barber, Lydia Rich, Mary
Harding, Jane S. Richards, Susan Grant,
Ann C. Woodbury and Brother George
Benson. The subjects treated upon were
the duties of the Relief Society, the home,
the mother, the training of the children,
charity, humility, prayer, union, and other
important matters, spiritual and temporal;
the storing of grain was spoken of by each
one who reported, and an unusual interest
seemed manifest in this respect.
	The president made closing remarks in
which she alluded to some of her early ex-
periences in the Church, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and of which she
spoke with intense feeling. The meeting
closed with the doxology; and benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
	The afternoon session was numerously
attended, notwithstanding the concert in the
Tabernacle. On the stand besides the gen-
eral officers of the society and several
presidents of Stake organizations, were
four of the Apostles, F. D. Richards, F.
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith and H. J.
Grant. Prayer was offered by Apostle Ly-
man.
	Reports were made by Sisters Olivia
Widerborg, Sage Jones, Artemisia Seeg-
miller, Mary Ann Hyde and Mary Bell
Heywood.
	Ann C. Bartlett, of Uintah, who had
recently visited England, Mary John, Ruth
Pack, Rhoda A. Lyman, Mary Pitchforth,
all of these sisters gave favorable accounts
of the several organizations where they
preside, and in fact the whole tenor of the
meeting proves the Relief Society to be in-
creasing in influence and in importance and
in prosperity throughout all the stakes of
Zion. After the report from the sisters
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker; he referred in the course of his re-
marks to the great change which had taken
place during the past few years in regard
to our position before the world, and spoke
particularly of the recent Irrigation Con-
gress in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and
the honor shown to President George Q.
Cannon and others of our people. Elder
H. J. Grant followed in a similar strain and
spoke of the prophecy of President Wood-
ruff in Brigham City that the time had come
for the Lord to favor Zion, etc.; thought
the Saints should be careful and not get
lifted up with pride.
	Elder F. M. Lyman in his remarks dwelt
specially upon the labors of the sisters in
the society and in the home, and expressed
the deep interest he had always taken in
the sisters’ organizations, and his apprecia-
tion of their efforts for good in various
directions.
	President George Q. Cannon who came
in late after having addressed the audience
in the Tabernacle, occupied a few minutes
in speaking to the sisters; giving wise
counsel and timely instructions; encourag-
ing them in the path of duty as Latter-day
Saints and as mothers, commending their
labors in the past, and especially the in-
tegrity and courage they had manifested
heretofore in times of trial and adverse cir-
cumstances; touched upon many subjects
pertaining to woman's advancement here
and elsewhere, and to the present political
conditions in Utah in view of statehood
and of equal suffrage in the near future.
In closing his remarks President Cannon
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters, mentioning especially the presiding
officers of the society.


Apostle F. D. Richards fully appreciated
the labors of the Relief Society and referred
to the excellent instructions given by the
brethren who had spoke; felt the sisters
needed the blessings and encouragement of
the presiding authorities in the various
stakes and wards, and gave the presidents
excellent advice about many things con-
nected with their organization.
	President Young made a few remarks
thanking the brethren for their presence.
President M. I. Horne presented the gen-
eral officers who were sustained by unani-
mous vote, and the conference was adjourn-
ed until next October. Singing, “Our
God We Raise to Thee." Dismissed with
prayer by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	E. B. Wells, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER FROM DR.
ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

[Concluded.]
	Aug. 26th Rollin obtained a carriage at
3 o’clock, and we went sight-seeing until
6 o’clock p. m. This was very entertain-
ing, bordering on the exquisite. We went
upon the much elevated plateau to the
hotel of the grand summer resort. We
drove through Grand Avenue, and on to
the “Garden of the Gods.” Which is
quite as grand as the name indicates.
	Aug. 11th. We all went to the Office of
the Automatic Telephone Co. I was
charmed with the simplicity, and apparent
perfection, of its work. At 11 o’clock I
took the car for Salida, arriving at 7 p. m.
Here I took the advantage of the lay over
privilege on my ticket.
	Aug. 20th. At 3 o’clock a. m. I paid
$6.20 for my ticket to Monte Vista Col.
and again checking baggage, was soon on
the way. With extra engine we were tug-
ging up hill through Royal Gorge; then
south to Alamosa: and then west to Monte
Vista.
	Aug. 21st. At 10 o’clock I was met
with horse and carriage, by my Nephew
Barnard Field Stevens, my twin brothers only
son, who was left at six months old with-
out a father. His wife Jennie, a short
time since returned from Denver having
passed through two very serious surgical
operations; and not yet entirely recovered.
No time was wasted in forming an acquaint-
ance, with wife, daughter and son. The
feeling was cordial, and mutual. No pains
was spared to make me feel, that I was
quite at home. I found Field a business
man. He has worked for years at harness-
making; and carries between four and five
thousand dollars worth of stock. He also
has a farm of two quarter sections, all un-
der cultivation, and calls himself worth
about eighteen thousand dollars. He
went to Monte Vista because of being sorely
afflicted with asthma, about nine years ago,
and is now a perfect picture of health. He
so loved the location, that he persuaded his
mother and step-father, to move there, from
the northern part of Iowa, and they also;
are in love with their southern home, with
their son, and wife, and one child near by.
	Aug 25th.—After dinner, according to
previous arrangements, we started for a
twenty miles drive, to the farm above men-
tioned. My sister-in-law Mary Boutwell,
and husband, Field and I, arrived there
just in time to pitch tent and have a camp
supper before dark. Straw was gathered
from a large stack and the bed made, and

[Column 2]
the table-cloth placed on it. Thus we
dined. How did I get through the night?
I divided my time between the bed inside,
and star-gazing outside the tent. The men
were lost somewhere in the stack.
	Monday Aug. 26th. Field said, “What
do you think of the crops? I never saw the
like. Here the fields of wheat, barley, and
oats, had grown far beyond my conception.
	Should I describe the scene as I saw it in
the field, the account would appear fabu-
lous; so I will say, come and borrow the
book of the description of the valley, and
its resources, and read for yourselves.
Many straws of grain are grown in a cluster
from one kernel. From a cluster I counted
from one straw, measuring, six feet and
one inch, and made an estimate, that in the
entire cluster, there, must be fifteen hun-
dred oats. Field said he expected his farm
this year, to yield a profit of from eighteen
to twenty five hundred dollars. The land
is sub-irrigated. That is the ditches are
made ten rods apart, and the water soaks
under. This is of but little trouble. The
hard pan below the soil, holds the water
which soaks up. The climate the year
round is mild. The altitude is 7,665 ft.
the thermometer registers very high, al-
though the heat is not so preceptible in the
sun within about thirty degrees as is ex-
pressed, when a cloud passes under the
sun, a sudden change is made. Hence there
is a great difference in this altitude between
sun and shade. The roads are made by
nature, not a stone for twenty miles, they
are sandy and packed with traveling over
them. Not a hollow, or hill did I see.
One teamster with two wagons and four
horses can haul seventy five hundred. I
had no need to brush dust from my cloth-
ing after a travel of forty miles, going one
way and returning another. The moisture
rises from the ground causing a dew that
lays the dust. As we were traveling for
miles, past these fields, covered with tall
heavy headed grain, they extended beyond
our vision. The valley has undoubtedly,
once been submerged, hence the level sandy
surface. The beautiful white cumulous
clouds, that seemed constantly piled up
along the horizon, surrounding the valley
on the tops of the low mountains, filled
me with such admiration, that I felt that it
could properly be called the “Valley of the
Gods.” I thought this would be a grand
place for a Temple, for the second coming
of the Son of Man, or for a garden of Eden.
	I must here leave the descriptive as the
view widens before me, and bring the
reader back to the house built and owned
by my nephew. A few days before I ar-
rived, it had been visited by lightning.
The mother and both children were shocked.
The lightning passing by the piano without
injuring it, visiting three rooms in its
course, cracked the plastering along the
way, and entering the bed-room, smashed
a large plated mirror into small pieces, then
stopped its destruction by splitting the fur-
ther post ot the bedstead. Did some un-
seen power hold me back, and then again,
hurry me on, preserving me from these
destructive elements? I answer yes.
Surely the destruction by the elements as
predicted in the 24th, Chapter of Mathew are
upon us.
	Before leaving Monte Vista, with my
Nephew, and two children, I participated in
a picnic sociable, in a grove three miles dis-
tant. He belongs to two lodges, or clubs.
This one admits ladies, and he joined it,

[Column 3]
that he might take with him his wife. The
main object of this society is to sustain a
fund, to care for the sick, and bury the
dead. This union reminded me of a cele-
bration in Salt Lake City July 24th, 1849.
Having been driven from our homes in a
body, our love, and interest, as a commun-
ity were one. So it seemed that there was
much harmony with them.
	Monday Sept. 2nd. I started for home,
and at the depot parted with five of my im-
mediate kindred. Why this parting? Be-
cause I do not live for selfish ends alone
I checked my baggage, and paid my fare of
six dollars and twenty cents, to Salida, I
arrived there late in the night. Now using
my excursion return ticket. I checked my
baggage for the entire journey. For three
hours another lady and I, had to wait, with
depot iron seat accommodations We
watched closely the clock, and after our car
was past due, without any call, all rushed
to the coming car. After traveling two
miles to the East, the conductor told us
that we were on the wrong car, and going
the wrong way. Soon we were placed on
the Pullman cars going West, and rode in
the Pullman Baggage Car to Leadville, sit-
ting on a couple of camp chairs. We were
the sole occupants of this empty car. Day-
light soon exposed our lonely situation.
We were then exchanged to our car, which
had stopped for breakfast; but our change was
not for the better. This was “Peach Day” at
the Junction; and fully one and a half car
loads of people were crowded into one.
	Space here will not admit of a description
of the road, as we were going to, and com-
ing, this side of Leadville. I don’t believe
the like can be equalled on the earth, for
magnitude, grandeur, and sublimity of
rock scenery. No one could imagine the
extent without seeing it. At times, the
car windows would not admit of our eyes
beholding the top of the towering cliffs, as
they seemed to reach the skies. We went
flying with great speed, and at one place we
suddenly came to a stand still. By looking
from the platform, I saw a very large boul-
der which had purposely, or accidentally
been, precipitated upon the track, from the
perpendicular heights above. Men with
their chisels and hammers, succeeded finally
in making room for us to pass. We now
struck the dreary clay colored soil of Color-
ado, and to add to our sombre mood, our
train was three hours behind. Thus I
landed in Salt Lake City at 2 o’clock Wed-
nesday morning Sept. 4th, 1895. Soon
after I arrived home I learned that the D.
R. G. Ry. train had been visited by a “hold
up.”
	I must here remember another
cousin, who is connected with the above,
now numbered with the dead, the daughter
of Addison and Louisa Barnes Pratt, and
wife of William McGary, who favored me
with her likeness, and family record the
latter being her last written words on earth.
Ellen Sophronia Pratt McGary b. Feb. 6th,
1832. died Aug. 9th, 1895, of fatty degen-
eration of the heart. After having been
confined to her bed two days, she quietly
passed away, at Garden Grove, Anahiem
Cal. She will be remembered as the eldest
daughter of her mother’s family. In com-
mon with the family, she endured all the
privations of a pioneer life, having arrived
in Salt Lake Valley, Utah, in the fall of
1848. We were much associated together
in those early days, because of her cheerful
spirit, she claimed a place in the leading


ranks of society. She went with her
father’s family on one mission to the Society
Islands in 1849, returning in 1852.
	Since arriving home I have taken up the
thread of life anew, and am continuing the
work of compiling the Stevens Genealogy.
All records of this family name should be
reported at once, to
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY,
	24 W. North Temple
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
	CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
		AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
		14, 1895.
				[Continued.]
	MISS ANTHONY, upon introducing Mrs.
Stansbury said:
	"We have with us a representative of
your neighboring State that is a little in ad-
vance of this last action of Utah in enfran-
chising women, and that is a representative
from Colorado where the women voted at
the last election of '94 and as you remem-
ber were enfranchised by a vote of seven
thousand majority at the election of '93,
Mrs. Stansbury, and I want to say to you
that she is no small part of the Editorial
staff of the Rocky Mountain News, and if
you behave yourselves you will probably
see yourselves reflected in the columns of
that paper. (applause.)
	REMARKS BY MRS. L. M. STANSBURY.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I am very glad that Aunt Susan has told
you that it is my business to write rather
than to talk. I am afraid in our state we
would think it was cruel to ask me to speak
after the speakers that you have listened to
here this morning, and yet it seems that we
from Colorado ought to thank you for the
help that Utah has given us. You have
heard a great deal about what we have to
go through in politics, you have heard
how utterly disreputable it is to go to the
primaries, caucuses and conventions. I
think from my experience that we have had
a great deal more disreputable time in secur-
ing the ballot than in using it, in the State
of Colorado. In the State of Colorado the
struggle has been going on ever since
General McCook suggested it. In the first
legislature I believe in 1876 when the Con-
stitutional Convention was held there, there
was a very hard struggle to get it put into
our Constitution, but our men were not so
well posted in regard to suffrage as they are
today. In 1882 there was a bill introduced
which met an untimely death as bills are
wont to do. There was a suffrage associa-
tion formed for the purpose of raising
money to help to carry their campaign. I
think there were only 8 charter members,
ours has about 180; we kept on working by
ourselves, I do not think there were more
than 20 or 30 of us in regular attendance
until the first legislature convened. After
that, my friends, we introduced a bill, we
were all very young and very green, we
did not know anything about a bill. They 
told us a constitutional amendment was
necessary but it took the lawyers forty-five
years to find that out. We found a young
man who had a constitutional amendment
which provided that no foreigner should
vote on his first papers. He said he was
willing to strike out the word "male"

[Column 2]
which would carry with it equal suffrage to
all women. So in spite of all their ridicule
if we did not know enough to get our bill
in we knew enough to get a rider, and horse
and rider went down together. When the
next legislature met we had a bill. There
were three more bills besides ours to give
suffrage to woman, and it was that more
than anything else that made us feel the
sentiment was general. I think that was
what gave us courage to go to the National
Woman's Association and ask for help. In
1893 the women of Utah held a silver meeting
a few weeks after. That was the first of
our suffrage campaign- We did not desig-
nate it a suffrage meeting, some women
talked silver and some talked suffrage.
Miss Shaw said that she did not know what
she would vote for. Now we are very un-
certain, we may be sorry which ever way
we vote but we do know that we will
vote for silver just as early, and just as fast
as the law will allow us. You have heard
a great deal about the silent influence of
women. Now in our state we have come
to the conclusion that the silent influence
is to talk and talk to a man until he will
give you anything on earth to make you
shut up. I really believe our men have
concluded that they would rather let us go
and vote as we pleased, than to talk and
labor and ask them to do this and that and
the other thing, because they are all willing
to please the ladies.
	I did not expect to speak at all here this
morning; if I had, I would have put on
some bigger sleeves. You understand that
Mr. Worth invented this style himself as he
thought that large sleeves would be neces-
sary to accommodate the muscles.
	Not having expected to speak to you at
all I will make way for some one who is
better capable of doing so. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—This was one of the
political candidates for State Superintendent.
She did not get quite votes enough to elect
her but nevertheless she was one of the
nominees of the democratic party, Mrs. C.
C. Bradford of Colorado. 
REMARKS BY MRS. C. C. BRADFORD
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
Just fancy coming as a representative of a
state where women vote, to a Territory
where women don't yet quite vote and be
presented as a defeated candidate. It is
perfectly dreadful. Nevertheless I was the
first woman ever nominated for a state of-
ficer in Colorado, and though I was beaten
they cannot take that honor from me.
	It seems to me that it is almost like call-
ing for a rush light when the full blaze of
the sun has been permitted to enter a room
to ask me to talk after Miss Anthony and
Miss Shaw have thrilled you as they have
done this morning, it is unkind to you, but
it is a very great kindness to me because
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw and the women
who have worked so long for Suffrage have
helped to put me on the throne and I am
here; (applause) and I am supremely
thankful to them for putting me there. I
like it a great deal better just as Miss Shaw
said than when I was behind the throne.
Another thing, so many people seem to
think that women are going to become so
terribly masculine and do so many terrible
things when they get into politics. I have
been in politics up to my eyes, and up to
my head, and I stumped the state of Col-
orado twice, once as an organizer of a politi-
cal party, and once as a candidate who did

[Column 3]
not get elected, and I have never met in all
the thousand miles I have traveled with
more reverence or respect than I did then,
when I was upon the throne. I never met
anything more cordial or more delightful
than the good fellowship of the men and
women who were glad to support the wo-
man who had helped to win suffrage for
them, and who chose to cast her lot with a
political party who absolutely hadn't the
ghost of a show. I do not believe in wo-
men seeking offices but I do believe in edu-
cational offices in every way, I believe that
the love and education of women are going
to show through some offices in the state
just as much as will that of the men.
	In regard to the differences of sex, that has
been so ably touched upon that I need not
refer to it except that being in politics will
make you more prominent than you ever
were before, because every woman who has
a child knows absolutely that she must take
an interest in the state—and I am so glad
as Miss Shaw says that you are coming in
as a state—I know you are and I believe
every hope will be confirmed, and I know
the faith and the hope of the Utah Women
and the faith and hope of the Colorado wo-
men for their sisters when this great and
glorious Territory becomes a State; and let
me thank God for the recognition of equal
suffrage here in Utah, and it will yet pre-
vail from clime to clime, from shore to
shore and from Canada to Mexico, wher-
ever the flag of the United States waves it
will be dear to our hearts for it is also a
Suffrage flag. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. C. E. ALLEN, PRESIDENT
	OE UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen—I am very glad
to be asked to assist in extending the wel-
come of Utah to our guests Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw. It is most fitting that at
this time the women of Utah should confer
with these distinguished leaders in all that
tends to the elevation of women. This is a
time when very many women here in Utah
are hesitating about what is best to be done.
There are many women who are influenced
by the old conservative feeling which for a
long time influenced me, that political life
was not best for women. It is but a few
years since I became associated with this
movement but for a long time I recognized
this great truth. In this respect my little
daughter far excels me. When she was
eight years old we were walking up Main
street and she said to me, "Mother, I don't
see why the women can't take some part in
politics," and this opinion she has adhered
to up to this time. I finally became con-
vinced that moral reform was impossible
until the ballot was granted to women.
	I used to feel that it would interfere with
home life, but I now see that the safety of
the home depends upon woman suffrage. I
read somewhere in an old law book that the
first of all Roman laws was the preserva-
tion of the home. What a revolution it
would work in our American politics if this
beautiful idea could be carried into effect
from the mother's standpoint. The life of
our very nation is threatened by the evil in-
fluences which threaten our homes, and
who shall speak concerning the young men
if not the home-makers. I believe if this
idea is carried into our politics it will make
of woman the power she should be. I
honor the women who are laboring for the
cause and all who are in sympathy with
them and I believe their noble deeds will be
recorded on the pages of history, that the


[Column 1]
reformation was far deeper than it appeared
on the outside, that their true work was in
restoring our political principle to its true
basis. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Last February we held
our first National Conference south of the
Mason and Dixon line and when the wo-
men from Alabama, Florida and Georgia
were introduced to the audience I was com-
pelled to say that the southern women were
truly born orators and speakers and I begin
to think the women of Utah are born ora-
tors and speakers as well as the southern
women.
	Mrs. Joannah Melton President of the
G. A. R. Relief Society was introduced by
Miss Anthony.
	REMARKS BY MRS. MELTON.
At the last moment your chairman has
invited me to say a word of welcome to our
guests Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw which
I feel very much pleased to do. Twenty-
six years ago; I am not going to say as long
as I live for I don’t want to tell you that,
but 26 years ago in the City of Lafayette.
Indiana, there were posters all over the city
that Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton would appear at the
Opera House. Of course the women of the
city were very much interested and we all
asked what kind of women they were.
Some of the gentlemen said “Now don’t
you go to that Opera House to hear those
women,’’ “Why, what is the reason?
Why should’nt we go and hear those wo-
men, are they not women?’’ “Yes, but
they are men women” (laughter) and I was
a little bit doubtful about going but I said
to myself: “Well, I won’t believe anything
until I see it and I am going to see what
kind of a woman a man woman is”
(laughter) So I went to the Opera House
and I saw women that I only wished that I
could be just like them, they were so
modest and motherly and kind and charm-
ing in their speeches and their conversation
that I was converted then and there before
I left the Opera House and I thought that
Woman’s Suffrage was just right. About
ten years ago I received a letter from Miss
Anthony telling me that she had heard of
me through some friends asking me to take
up the work in the Dakotas’. It seemed a
very hard thing to do in those two states
then because they were divided, but we
succeeded during the little while we worked.
	We were encouraged in our work but it
was just the same as it is here a great many
of the women had a great many arguments
against Woman Suffrage. Since coming
here six years ago I have watched the wo-
men here very closely and I see you have
some very able women and especially this
little woman (alluding to Mrs. Wells) seems
to be a bundle of executive power and she
has a good corps behind her and I knew the
suffrage question was safe in their hands.
I have done all the work I could but you
know the opposition which women are re-
ceiving at this present time and mostly
from the men. It was my privilege to be
invited to a home to meet some of our
Scotch delegates that were here at the Con-
vention, and there were five or six present
and several ladies, some with their wives.
One woman came in and said, “Well, I
suppose you gentlemen voted for us?” One
gentleman replied “You hit me hard!” and
I knew from that that he must have done it
and voted the other way. The lady re-
plied: “Oh, the women have shown to the

[Column 2]
world what they can do, they have shown
they have brains, and now I think it is time
that we have the ballot.” An old gentle-
man remarked to me: “that is my daughter,
she graduated at college, she is a mother
and now she says ‘I will show the people
what I can do.” That is just the argu-
ment that she used that now we have at-
tained this power we have got to the top
and we must not go backwards again. But
ladies, I think you have a grand future be-
fore you and with all the opposition to com-
bat you will succeed in this Territory.
	As Miss Shaw said, I have no patience with
women who do not think that the women
will do right in this Territory when given
the ballot, I have faith to know that the
women have heads and hearts and are just
as true and noble and kindly towards their
own sex as the men, and I don’t see why
the women of this Territory should not
vote just as intelligently for themselves as
a man. One gentleman in the Convention
said his wife was a Republican and he was
a Democrat. He said they would not want
to fight on the question. If I want to do
anything that my husband is opposed to I
don’t say anything I just keep quiet but I
just do my own way. (Laughter) Now I
tell you ladies and gentlemen that we are
just going to get there. Just look at that
ship of State as it comes in. Do you see
those Eastern States? Do you see the wo-
men bending down and looking up? They
are just as eager as the ones marching in
side by side. See the twin States of Dakota
they don’t come in equal they are just half.
Now we have the State of Colorado march-
in, men and women look alike. Sometimes
when we see them together we don’t know
which is the man and which is the woman.
See the State of Wyoming, the men and
women look just alike, and as Miss Shaw
said last night “We live together so many
years that we grow to look alike” and here
comes this beautiful young State of Utah.
Why it is dressed beautifully in white, com-
ing in with purity and glory and every-
thing behind it with men and women
equal. (Applause.)


WOMAN'S EXPONEN.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLVIII.
	“It is fortunate your coming over” said
Sidney one day to his aunt, “the lawyers
who are engaged upon your uncle’s affairs
were imperative about sending for you,
said it was impossible to do without such
an important witness as you would be, con-
cerning many things, for instance Lady
Walton’s death, though, as you know, I
was present, and really I believe you would
have had to come if possible; but we could
never have expected you to bring the
children, and I felt you would not leave
them. Now that you are here, the lawyers
will come down and settlements be made
much more easily than sending papers
across the water for signatures.”
	A story-teller cannot go into all details
of the lives of characters mentioned, nor
even the most important ones; and we
must leave Hilliard castle and its visitors to
the fancy of our readers for a short time,
while it is filled with lawyers and witnesses,
and distant relatives, who push their claims
for consideration. The final adjustment
was not reached without much trouble and
expense, and after long years of waiting,
and careful watching; for other complica-
tions arose through the sudden death by

[Column 2]
accident of young Lord Walton, the father
of Sir Edward’s grand-children. He was
thrown from his horse, and instantly
killed, while out hunting, not many weeks
after the arrival of Mrs. Harrison and fam-
ly, and as no will had been made, and the
children were left orphans the law had to
be appealed to; Mrs. Walton, not caring
to take any individual responsibility, though
she was not averse to doing her duty as
step-mother. Mrs. Harrison the nearest
relative urged her claim, and succeeded
after much tedious intercession in getting
it recognized.
	The climate of England, though native
to Major Harrison did not agree with him,
he had endured much hardship and fatigue
during the war in America, and almost im-
perceptibly his health began to fail. He
was loath to think so, and would not admit
it even to Sidney, who was the first to
notice the change, and to urge the need of
seeing a physician at once. The Major
would not listen to it, but argued he would
be all right as soon as he went aboard the
ship to return. Sidney did not dare tell
his aunt how alarmed he felt about his
uncle’s condition, and therefore she was
totally unprepared when the crisis came,
suddenly, without any previous warning.
Major Harrison spent much of his time
out of doors, on horseback, or reading and
wandering about under the grand old trees
in the magnificent grounds around the old-
fashioned dwelling. Sitting as usual, book
in hand, with head thrown back, after his
usual manner, one afternoon in the late
Autumn, one would have thought him
resting peacefully, and so no doubt he was;
’twas thus he was discovered by Sidney, who
had come out to call his uncle to dinner;
judge his amazement, and horror, to find
he had fallen asleep in death. In a few
seconds the whole household were gathered
round; a few rods away in the former home
of Dr. Bland, a young Doctor lived, who
came without a moment’s delay, a messen-
ger was dispatched in hot haste for another,
and meantime all the restoratives known to
science were used without effect. Discon-
solate will scarcely apply to the woman,
bereft as Mrs. Harrison was of one she held
dearer than her own life. No one ventured
even to try to comfort her; she was utterly
left alone; Sidney feared her mind would
give way, under such heavy pressure, yet
he dared not say more than the common-
place words which his profession as a min-
ster warranted. But he took charge of the,
children, just as he felt his aunt would
direct, were she sufficiently composed to
give advice in the matter. The great tree
had fallen, and Jane Harrison remembered
the dream and the warning.
	So many changes had come to Mrs. Har-
rison in a short period of time that it is
strange she could control her emotions, so
as to attend to the children after a few days,
and maintain the dignity of her position as
the only near relative of these orphaned
little ones. She was indeed a woman of
remarkable fortitude to bear up under such
an accumulation of trials and bereavements.
She was clearer-headed than any of the
lawyers and knew by intuition the best
course to take, and decided quietly and
without hesitation.
	“I shall remain here, at the castle, until
matters are properly adjusted” she said to
Sidney, some weeks after the terrible blow 
had fallen, “I am sure it would be my
uncle’s wish, and your uncle Robert would


[Column 1]
expect it of me too, and when my cousin’s
affairs are made right and the Walton mat-
ters fixed, so we may know what to expect
from that, I shall sail for America taking
with me all the children and nevermore re-
turn here, much as I love the green fields
of my native land.”
	‘‘And am I to be banished Aunt Jane
(Mrs. Harrison,”) said Sidney, in his most
sympathetic voice. “Have I no part nor
lot in this matter, may I not be a part of the
household still? Will you not need some
one to manage such large estates and teach
the boys, prepare them for college and ren-
der some assistance in the arduous labor of
guardianship; even though I may never
again pursue my calling in the ministry.”
	For a few minutes Mrs. Harrison was like
one bereft of her reason, she could not
speak, it was as if a tempest shook her
whole frame and Sidney chided himself in-
wardly for having spoken “Dear Aunt
Jane” he said, “let me stay with you, I will
give up all else for the children’s sake, I
will be a brother to you, now you are left so
lonely, do not shut me out of your life, you
must have need of some one in whom you
can place confidence, I am sure my uncle
would approve of it, and I should be most
happy to serve you, let us understand each
other, shall it be so?”
	Mrs. Harrison acquiesced almost without
words, but Sidney understood and remained
by her through all the days of trial and
final settlements. Sometimes she seemed
so crushed in spirit, it was like a cloud hid-
ing all light from view, all was darkness,
and had it not been for the extra exertion
she was compelled to make for the children’s
sake the consequences might have been
fatal to her reason, or her health, or both;
as it was, she nerved herself for the battle,
and fought it through bravely, never
shrinking though pierced to the heart’s core
often.
	Seldom has it fallen to the lot of one
woman to be left with so many dependent
little ones of different parentage, her own-
two children Conway and Clarice had
separate property rights, then Anna’s
children were heirs in the Hilliard estate
as well as the Walton property, and Clair’s
boy was Edward Hilliard, bearing the name
and inheriting the title of his grandfather.
	A curious complication in one family,
and what the future was to be, even Jane
Harrison with all her foresightedness could
not tell.
	After many weary months which
dragged slowly by notwithstanding the
press of business which occupied the entire
time of both Mrs. Harrison and Sidney, as
well as men learned in the law (and after
many small legacies to relatives far removed
had been settled upon) and gifts bestowed
upon old servants and retainers, the castle
and estates were leased, and as they could
not persuade Maitland’s widow to leave
England, they took an affectionate leave of
her and embarked once more for America.
How changed was everything on their
arrival; how different and how sad the
places seemed, where so much happiness
had been enjoyed. It was hard too to meet
the former friends and neighbors and re-
ceive their expressions of kindly, well-
meant sympathy, which opened anew the
fountains of grief, hard to control when
once aroused.
	Mrs. Harrison interested herself in every-
thing which concerned the children and
watched their progress as though they were
all her very own and they grew up together

[Column 2]
in the closest sympathy with each other.
Sidney Barrington was true to his promise,
he gave up his profession, but still preached
occasionally at funerals, or filled the pulpit
for any of his friends in the vicinity, when
either of them were necessarily absent.
Their life passed along quite smoothly for a
time, and Mrs. Harrison ceased to look for
any extraordinary event to happen. The
boys were ambitious in their studies, Con-
way inclining to medical pursuits, and
Edward Hilliard to music in which his
very soul delighted. Edward Walton was
not so pronounced in any one direction and
really caused his Aunt Jane more uneasi-
ness than the others. He was fond of
horses and of all sorts of out-door sports
and athletic games. The girls were taught
needlework in all its branches and such do-
mestic employments as seemed suited to
their position in life as plain Americans.
Not a word was ever said to them or any
allusion made to titles or estates in England.
	It was finally learned after much research
that the debts of honor most of them con-
tracted abroad had swallowed up the Wal-
ton property, so that Anna's children really
only had what they inherited from their
grandfather Hilliard, and that had been
divided, and subdivided among so many,
that it was not much to boast of, and from
year to year the amount became visibly less.
Mrs. Harrison cared little for the English
estates. Her interests and Sidney Barring-
ton’s were all with the people among whom
they dwelt, and they listened to the un-
favorable recitals that came by letter, from
the lessees of the Hilliard lands and tenantry
without remorse. In fact Mrs. Harrison
felt that if all were gone, the boys would
be less inclined to wander from her and
their home in the new world. She had
means sufficient by prudent management
for all, and she intended the boys should be
taught such industry and economy as would
help them to be self-supporting. She had
imbibed the ideas and habits of the plain
Puritan people and she realized that such
principles were productive of morality and
honesty. She regretted that Edward Wal-
ton showed a tendency to follow in his
father’s footsteps, and trusted to the dis-
ciplinarian methods of Sidney and other
teachers and professors to cure him of his
waywardness.
	The influence exerted by Mrs. Harrison
among all those associated with her in any
way was very elevating, she sought to
make all around her self-respecting and
was a great favorite with high and low not
withstanding her exclusiveness.
	After a regular course of study Conway
feeling it imperative to thoroughly prepare
for his life-work decided that he must take
a university course abroad; his integrity to
his home and the patriotism he had mani-
fested, convinced his mother it would be
safe to trust him, and in fact she desired he
should be thoroughly equipped for his
chosen profession. It was an event in the
calm, quiet life of the staid New England
household, and to Jane Harrison it was like
parting with a part of her life, Sidney was
to accompany him over and make some in-
vestigations concerning property affairs and
cases involved. At the last moment al-
most Edward Walton became possessed
with the idea of going with them, and
reason as his aunt would she could not
change his mind. He was old enough to
declare for himself, he wanted to see his
stepmother, he had heard more than was

[Column 3]
prudent of his father’s career, and naturally
longed to know more. At last unwillingly
Mrs. Harrison consented and charging Sid-
ney to watch over Edward and bring him
back when he returned in the fall and with
tears and sorrowful emotions, they set sail
once more for England.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE STATE TABLE. 
To whom it may concern:
The state table that is being constructed
by Mr. J. R. Wilson—the table upon which
the first Governor of the state of Utah is to
sign the first bill passed by the first State
Legislature—is nearing completion. There
will be a place prepared in the table where-
in will be sealed up a copy of the Constitu-
tion of the State of Utah; and I also desire
autographs from many of the citizens of the
state of Utah, especially of all those nomi-
nated on the State ticket, including the
members of both houses of the Legislature
on the Populist, Republican and Democrat-
ic tickets. These autographs will receive a
place in the table; and all persons who so
desire will please send them to my address:
John R. Wilson, Salt Lake City. As it is
impossible for me to call on each one in
person I send this request and hope it will
be favorably considered by all concerned.
The card should contain the name, whem
born and where, and the official position
now held or having been held.
Respectfully,
John R. Wilson.


Ellis R. Shipp, M.D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 2l, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 44 S. MAIN STREET
Opp. Zion’s Co-op. Mer. Inst’n.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
_________________________________________________________________
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
_________________________________________________________________
