Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1895. No.13.


CONTENTS: 
	Letter From New York—S. W. & M. A. Rich-
ards. Notes. Pilgrim Mothers’ Dinner—Marilla
M. Ricker. U. W. P. C.—Lizzie S. Wilcox. A
Happy Party—M. J. Rawson. Sonya Kovolevsky
—J. M. S. Woman Suffrage Column—M E.
Irvine, Sec. Thanksgiving Half A Century Ago
—Aunt Em. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
L. D. Alder. Relief Society Conference—Mar-
garet A. Caine. Relief Society Reports. State
W. S. A. Of Utah. Eternity Of God—S. W.
Richards. In Rural England—A Story—Con-
cluded. R. S. & P. A. Reports. Conference
N. A. W. S. A. In Memoriam. Louise Jose-
phine Laporte Lang—Hortense Mary Jones.
	EDITORIAL:—Faith In The Future Of Utah.
	POETRY:—Elizabeth Cady Stanton—Margherita
Arlina Hamm. Thanksgiving—New York Sun.


TO ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

1815—NOVEMBER 12,—1895.
No cannon breaks the crystal day,
No chimes cast clamor on the air;
No troops wheel past in glad array
To honor and their love display
For throne or Presidential chair,
The sun and stars look down upon
No war-encrimsoned gonfalon,
But only on a woman’s face—
An uncrowned monarch of our race.
For her ten million hearts today
Raise earnest prayer and praise on high;
Prayer that she longer here may stay
And see the early morning’s gray
Change slowly into rosy sky.
Praise for her busy four-score years,
Praise for her labor, love and tears,
Self-consecrated to the good
Of universal womanhood.
Our lives are monuments. Each one
A structure builds to mark his place.
The humblest slave beneath the sun,
The serf whose work is never done,
The lord and prince of proudest race,
Each builds unconscious of the deed,
Inspired by an immortal need,
A viewless fabric which shall be
His record through eternity.
Dear Elder Sister, thou hast wrought
A monument which through the years
Shall shine in majesty of thought,
In moral power with wisdom fraught,
And consolation free from fears;
A monument of days long gone,
A palace of the present dawn,
A beacon for the years to be
Unto our poor humanity!
	MARGHERITA ARLINA HAMM.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM NEW YORK.
	48 Sands St. Brooklyn, N. Y.
						Nov. 14, 1895.
SECTETARY N. W. RELIEF SOCIETY,
	Dear Sister:—Now that the occasion of
“Reunion of the Pioneers and friends of
Woman’s Progress,” on the eightieth birth-
day of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has
passed into history, as also the reception
tendered her on yesterday at the Hotel
Savoy, at which we were present, we send
to you a brief memoraudum of some of the
features of that event.
	The letter of information and sug-
gestions relative to our attendance, was

[Column 2]
duly received. The Metropolitian Opera
House at which the Reunion was held, seem-
ed a very appropriate place, said to have a
seating capacity, for three thousand two hun-
dred and nine persons, and from the gallery
boxes, banners with suitable mottoes, and
other decorations added to the attractiveness
of the place, while in the front centre of the
platform was erected an arch most beauti-
fully decorated with flowers, under which
was seated the lady guest of the occasion,
and by her side the President of the
National Council, Mrs. Dickinson, delegates
&c., occupied the spacious platform
promiscuously. It was eight thirty p. m.
when the President Mrs. Dickinson tendered
an expression of welcome and greeting, and
program proceedings commenced.
	But only a portion of the program ap-
peared on the stage. It has been suggested
previously that speakers should be allowed
ten minutes, but lectures were read occupy-
ing time, in one instance to twenty-five
minutes, and others without restriction, so
that only a comparatively small part of the
program was realized.
	It is understood, however, that a Pamph-
let will be published, in which will appear
all the addresses prepared for the occasion,
among them probably, one from the Utah
delegation.
	Notice of Reception on the following day
to be held at the Hotel Savoy, was given
with invitation extended to those who
would be pleased to attend. At this, the
Utah Delegation was present, and was cor-
dially recognized by Ladies Stanton,
Anthony, Dickinson and others too numer-
ous to mention. Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony especially spoke of their high re-
gard for the ladies of Utah, and wished a
suitable remembrance. No public presenta-
tion of the Onyx Box was made, but it
was mentioned among other presents which
had been received.
	The whole affair was very pleasant and
at the reception Mrs. Dickinson announced
that in 1900, five years hence, there would
be another similar event, and all were re-
quested to see that at that time their purses
were well filled as well as their minds
stored, for that, to be, most grand affair.
Elder Barnes who with us visited the Com-
mittee, received a complimentary ticket and
attended.
	The Utah delegation wore the colors, blue,
white and gold, which represent the colors
of the Utah Ladies Banner. As you will no
doubt be favored with the pamphlets when
they appear with the addresses, the sisters
will then be able to express their approval or
disapproval of the sentiments offered by
the delegation, as representing woman’s
rights and efforts, and the sure reward of
those efforts.
	Permit us now to say that it was a pleas-
ing opportunity for us, and we only hope
it may be quite satisfactory to those whom
we in person were honored to represent,
though not assigned to any program duty
upon the occasion, by which our voice
could be heard in praise of the labor done
under the most perfect organization known,
and by the ladies of Utah, who are not a

[Column 3]
whit behind the chiefest of those to whom
homage is paid.
	Wishing you, and those prominently en-
gaged with you as saviors among men,
life, peace and happiness; we are your fel-
low laborers for human redemption,
			S. W. & M. A. RICHARDS.


FULLY 8,000 people, says Margherita
Arlina Hamm, assembled in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House in New York City to cele-
brate the 80th birthday anniversary of our
honored leader, Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Every seat and box were sold and re-sold at
an enormous advance.
	In the centre of the platform were three
chairs of state, Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
president of the National Council of Wo-
men sat in one, Miss Anthony in another,
and the central seat somewhat elevated, was
occupied by Mrs. Stanton. Above its high
red back appeard a ground of white
chrysanthemums with the word "Stanton”
formed by red carnations. Festoons of
roses draped the chair. One can easily im-
agine that Mrs. Stanton’s fair, majestic face,
with its aureole of white puffed hair, in this
brilliant setting made a picture not soon to
be forgotten.
 	The boxes and balcony seats had mostly
been taken by representatives of different
associations and were decorated with their
emblems and colors adding greatly to the
splendor of the occasion.
	PERHAPS the most unique of the many
celebrations of Mrs. Stanton’s birthday was
that at the home of Miss Adelaide Johnson.
The "White Nest” as it has been appropri-
ately termed, was decorated upstairs with
the various pictures of Mrs. Stanton, and
her beautiful bust illuminated down stairs
seemed to have added glory for the occasion.
Miss Johnson gave readings, lasting two
hours and a half, tonching the events of
Mrs. Stanton’s life ending with that of her
addresses "The Solitude of Self.” It was
a dignified and beautiful commemoration
and interpretation of Mrs. Stanton and her
work.


PILGRIM MOTHERS’ DINNER.

	FOR many years in New York city the
21st of December has been celebrated by a
set of men commemorating the landing of
the Pilgrims. The celebration is called the
“Pilgrim Father’s Dinner.”  Women were
allowed to sit in the galleries and look on
whilst the dinners were being eaten by the
men.  A few years ago Lillie Devereux
Blake, President of the New York Woman
Suffrage League, inauguarated the “Pil-
grim Mothers’ Dinner” it has been a great
success.  I have been invited to the next
one and hope to be able to go and have
written Mrs. Blake to that effect. I wrote
her that if there ever were a set of women
who ought to be commemorated it is the
Pilgrim Mothers, for in those dreadful days
they not only endured all that the Pilgrim
Fathers did, but had to endure the Pilgrim
Fathers themselves!

	MARRILLA M. RICKER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting for the election of officers
on Friday evening, November 15th. at the
office of the president, E. R. Shipp M. D.
Mrs. Shipp had previously sent out written
invitations to each member of the society
especially requesting her presence, and
after the formal business meeting, the affair
took the form of a sociable.
	The president was in the chair and meet-
ing opened with prayer by Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson. Roll call was answered by
sentiments, original or selected: and when
the name of the treasurer C. C. R. Wells
was called, she responded by presenting to
the president in behalf of the society, and
as a token of love and esteem, a book of
sentiments from various authors. Presi-
dent Shipp did not expect to give another
sentiment so soon but felt to express her
appreciation and thanks for the token which
was a great surprise.
	After roll call the minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved. Then
the minutes of the last annual meeting
were read.
	A motion was made by Honorary Presi-
dent E. B. Wells that the officers for the
ensuing year be elected by ballot. Motion
carried.
	The result was as follows:—E. B. Wells,
president; Nellie C. Taylor, first vice-presi-
dent; H. A. Badger, second vice-president;
E. R. Shipp, recording secretary; Edith
Rossiter, assistant recording secretary;
Ella W. Hyde, corresponding secretary;
Phoebe C. Young, treasurer. Program
Committee for three months, Ruth M. Fox
chairman, Lizzie S. Wilcox and L. D.
Alder.
	The business being transacted, meeting
adjourned until Nov. 30th.
	Some time was then spent in social en-
joyment, conversation being interspersed
with vocal and instrumental music and
recitations. Tempting refreshments were
served on small tables which were adorned
with crysanthemums and bows of ribbon in 
the club colors, pale green and heliotrope.
The room was also decorated with these
colors: and beside each plate at table was a
pretty little souvenir, a card tied with rib-
bons of the club’s colors, and bearing the
following inscription:
	MY CONGENIAL FRIENDS
	OF THE
	U.W. P. C.
“As steel sharpeneth steel, so does the companionship
	of a friend brighten the intellect."
The spirit in congenial air
	Ascends to greater heights,
The mind grows broad, and bright and fair,
	While thought takes lofty flights.
The soul expands and conquers wrong,
	Fond hearts more softly beat;
True friendship breathes an endless song
	To make our joy complete.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15th, 1895.
	The stanza, being original and a true ex-
pression of Mrs. Shipp’s feelings, found a
ready response in the hearts of her guests.
LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


THE annual convention of the National-
American W. S. A. will be held in Wash-
ington Jan. 23-29.


A HAPPY PARTY.

Publisher Woman’s Exponent:
	WE send this small article to you, hop-
ing that you will insert it in your paper.
It was a beautiful morning and the sun
sent forth its warm rays over the earth,
when the people of Farr West met with the
Relief Society for the purpose of surpris-
ing their much esteemed secretary, Sister
Christene Hegsted, President M. A.
Stephenson in charge of the affair.
	The people all marched into her residence
and were greeted very kindly, by the much
surprised sister, while tears of joy moisten-
ed the eyes of every one present. The
house of Sister Hegsted was filled to over-
flowing, so they proceeded to the meeting-
house, where a large table was spread with
many of the luxuries of life, after which a
program consisting of songs and recitations
was rendered in a very pleasing manner,
by some of the young ladies of the ward.
This was followed by a speech from Presi-
dent M. A. Stephenson, “sisters we have
met today for the purpose of showing our
respect to our secretary, who has so faith-
fully served for the past fourteen years, and
she may rest assured, that we do appreciate
her labor.
	She has been called to preside over the
Young Ladies Association, and we wish
her success in her future labors,” and a
hearty vote of thanks was tendered her.
A nice shawl was then presented to her, by
the members of the Relief Society, after
which she, herself, made a few remarks and
tendered her resignation as secretary, and
thanked the sisters for their kindness to-
ward her.
	Some very encouraging remarks were
made by Bishop W. F. McEntire and a few
brethren present. Benediction by P. C.
Stephenson.
Yours Truly,
	M. J. Rawson, Sec.
Farr West Oct. 28, 1895.


SONYA KOVOLEVSKY.

	This is a handsome and interesting vol-
ume published by the Century Company,
New York. It is the authorized American
edition of a work which, we believe, has ex-
cited a great deal of interest in Europe. It
contains two parts. In the first the gifted
Russian lady tells of her experiences of child-
hood in her home, and she does this in a
manner that reveals the great genius that
was at her command. Her great power of
analysis reveals the secrets of the heart of
the child, secrets which are all more or less
familiar, or were so at one period of life to
human beings, no matter in what clime or
under what circumstances they grew up to
consciousness of life; but we have never
come across anybody who has so grasped
these thoughts and sentiments in their very
infancy as this remarkable woman does in
her “Recollections.” And she groups them
and shapes them into lovely language pic-
tures with an artistic sweetness and sim-
plicity that shine through even the transla-
tion sufficient to give some idea of the real
worth of the original.
	The second part of the volume contains a
biographical sketch of Sonya by her friend,
the Duchess of Cajonello. In this the
main features of her life are laid before the
public. It is of special interest because the
gifted Russian woman lived at a time,
when there was a general awakening among


the women in that country for emancipa-
tion. She was among the pioneers on this
field and achieved remarkable success, al-
though her sudden death ended her career
before she had realized her aspirations.
She died of broken heart and one of her
last remarks was: “I have had everything
in life except that which was absolutely
necessary to me.” What this absolute
necessity was is easily gathered from her
own “Recollections” as well as from the
Biographical Sketch, and the whole story
is a lesson by which the thoughtful reader
undoubtedly will profit. J. M. S.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of meeting held Aug. 20th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E. B.
Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Oh ye fair
ones.” Prayer by Mrs. Fewson Smith.
Sang, “Our Country.” Minutes of May
meeting read and approved. Roll called,
many subjects were discussed, and questions
answered by the president, who also read a
chapter on the organizations of State Con-
stitutions. Adjourned for one month.
Benediction M. E. Irvine.

	Minutes of meeting held Oct. 15th,
President Ferguson in the chair. Sang,
“In Twilight Hours.” Prayer by Jane
Allbrand. Roll called, minutes of August
meeting read and approved. The president
referred to Mrs. Stanton’s birthday, and
asked Mary P. Silver to report what the
president wished done in the matter, found
the lady very busy, was asked to call again.
Elizabeth M. Price gave her reason for
thinking we should continue suffrage meet-
ings, they were good. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction M. P. Silver.

	Minutes of meeting held Nov. 19th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E.
B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Proud
State of the Union.” Prayer, State Presi-
dent, E. B. Wells. Sang, “Our Country.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
President Ferguson mentioned that we had
sent a telegram to congratulate Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton on her birthday, an-
nounced that this was our annual meeting
for the election of officers, but in talking
over the matter found some who thought
further meetings unnecesary, would like an
expression from members. A number ex-
pressed their views, but all were in favor of
continuing, for another year at least.
Stake President E. B. Wells told the ladies
in regard to the Onyx Box which had been
sent to Mrs. Stanton, regretted more could
not see it. President Ferguson thought we
had better proceed to the election of officers,
which was then done, resulting in the fol-
lowing ladies being chosen. Kate H. Groes-
beck, president; Della W. Eardley, first
vice-president; E. J. MacFarlane, second
vice-president; E. M. Price, third vice-
president; Cassie C. Newman, Secretary;
Mary P. Silver Treasurer. Mary J. Hol-
den, Chairman Executive Board. Martha
Greames, Eliza V. Smith, Martha Baldwin,
Jane Allbrand, members of the Board.
	The new officers took their places. A vote
of thanks was given to the retiring officers,
and other business transacted. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
				M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

THE year decays, November’s blast
	Through leafless boughs pipes shrill and drear.
With warmer love the home clasps fast
	The hands, the hearts, the friends most dear.
On many seas men sail the fleet
	Of hopes as fruitless as the foam.
They roam the world with restless feet
	But find no sweeter spot than home.
Today with quickened hearts they hear
	Old times, old voices chime and call.
The dreams of many a vanished year
	Sit by them at this festival.
Though hearts that warmed them once are cold:
	Though heads are hoar with winter frost
That once were bright with tangled gold,
	Thanks for the blessings kept or lost. 
Thanks for the strong free wind of life.
	However it change or veer,
For the love of mother and sister and wife,
	Clear stars that to haven steer:
For the quenchless lamps of changeless love
	That burn in the night of the dead;
For the life that is, for the hope above,
	Be thanksgiving by all hearts said.
—New York Sun.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING HALF A
CENTURY AGO.

	MORE than half a century ago in a small
New England village where there was only
one “Church” and that was called a meet-
ing house, because to the old-style Puritans,
Church meant the Church of England,
from which their forefathers were dissenters,
Thanksgiving was a state occasion, with all
the ceremonials such a day implied The
meeting house was decorated with ever-
greens from the woods near by, pine 
branches, and hemlock boughs, and long
trailing vines, that keep fresh under the
thick carpet of fallen leaves, with the scar-
let red berries that give such warmth and
tone to the more sombre, everlasting green;
not only the public places were thus orna-
mented, but the dwelling houses of the
villagers; but here one also finds a variety
of late autumn and winter flowers; and
plenty of good substantial well-cooked food
for notwithstanding the widely-diffused
religious sentiment, there are festivities
afterwards, and plenty of feasting. The 
public service in the meeting-house begun
usually at eleven o’clock a. m. and it was
always special; the morning was observed
as sanctimoniously as if it was the Sabbath,
by the Puritans, but when meeting was
over, there was a change, even in the
minister’s family.
	The service in the village meeting house
on the particular day alluded to here, was
very imposing for a small village; the
treble and alto singers were all in white,
with pale green ribbon and white
chrysanthemums, one would suppose to
harmonize with the decorations, the bass
and tenor, wore their usual Sunday suits
with a knot of green ribbon in a button
hole of their vests; a village Yankee, of
the male persuasion, would not have
thought of wearing a flower in meeting,
those were only for girls and women folks;
at this remote date the writer has not the
least remembrance of the sermon, (singers
rarely do have) but the anthem which has
been practised so long beforehand one never
forgets—and this one was “Lift up your
heads, Ye Everlasting gates—And let the
King of Glory in, Who is the King of

[Column 2]
Glory,” and so forth;—but this is of little
consequence compared to other things, that
transpired on such eventful days. In these
rural villages one generally knows what is
going on in other people’s houses, even
though not clairvoyant, to the details of the
dinner; but enough transpired in one house
to make this sketch sufficiently long, and
to give an idea of the olden time, when
those who are grandmothers today were
barely in their ’teens.
	Let me picture an old rambling house,
with low ceilings and great open fire-places,
and high mantel pieces, full to running
over with children, breathless with playing
games—and with calling to one another,
from garret to cellar—running about with
ginger-bread and maple sugar, eating all
day long, and upsetting the whole house,
filling it with noise and scattering crumbs
and dirt over the well-kept floors and fur-
niture. All the scolding and fretting of
young Mamas’ and Aunties’ of no avail—
while sedate and dignified the older mem-
bers of the family looked on and took no
note of the uproar, except to say now and
then “let the little ones alone, they are
having their fun now.”
	Thanksgiving dinner, at a long table, in
a great square living room, with all the
homely characteristics of the time, passed off
pleasantly; of the many expected, almost
all were present; married sons and daughters
with their children, and the young boys
and girls of this large family; all dressed
for the occasion and in the gayest of spirits
apparently, and yet there was somehow a
tinge of subdued melancholy, only pre-
ceptible to those of prophetic temperament.
The day wore away, the children tired out
with play, were put in bed and the older
members grouped around the huge glowing
fire of pine knots, the blaze flickering and
glimmering in the great square room, cast-
ing dark shadows in the corners, and
against the paneling, making one feel that
such is an hour adapted specially to telling
weird stories, and singing sentimental
songs. Plenty of stories were told of ad-
venture, of wonderful escapes, by sea, and
by land, stories of the ships that went
down, and soldiers killed in battle, ghost
stories and tales of haunted houses, real and
imaginary intermingled with songs such
as “Black eyed Susan,” “The Soldier’s
Tear” “The Soldier’s Dream,” and many a
characteristic love song as well.
	Midnight found them all sitting singing
around the dying embers, the pale light of
the lamps only revealed paler faces, for they
were well aware that on the morrow they
must separate, and naturally the thought
comes, “When shall we all meet again,”
which was suggested in trembling accents
by the mother of this large family—but try
as they would and did, they could not quite
suppress the saddened feeling that came
after this comparatively happy day. And
would it have been even comparatively so,
if either one could have peered into the
future? Alas, No! Of all that met on that
Thanksgiving day, the few who still remain
are widely scattered, having but little in
common, save the remembrance of child-
hood and early life, and the tie of kindred
which is never quite dissolved however far
apart lives are divided.
	Some have fallen asleep to wake no more
in this world, and some now far advanced
in years—live on in a green old age peace-
fully awaiting the summons which comes
alike to rich and poor, high and low. Two

[Column 3]
brave stalwart men (one only a baby then)
gave their lives to their country, and died
on the battle field, in the Civil War. Oth-
ers more fortunate (perhaps) were wounded
and suffered pain, and hardship, but still
live to tell the story of their many encount-
ers and their well-earned honors. These
were the young men and boys--but what
of the women, and the girls? Scattered,
married, widowed, some with large families,
and others with small ones, and still others
sleeping the sleep that knows no waking.
Were I to tell you all, it would indeed be a
romance in real life with plenty of incidents,
embellished with the charms that we
imagine only abound in fiction.
	Don’t fancy, however, that all these
young people remained in the Old Bay
State----Oh, no indeed! They have been to
the Islands of the sea, have sailed around
the world in great ships to far off India,
and eaten raw fish on the South Sea Islands,
have told us since of the beautiful long-
haired tatooed women of New Zealand,
and of the darker, stouter, plainer ones of
Madagascar. They do not all believe in
one religion, notwithstanding their Puri-
tanical teaching. Some are still Congrega-
tionalists however, and still keep Thanks-
giving after the former day manner; and
others have embraced widely different
faiths.
	But there is a chain known to some of
those, who sat around the fireside in that
rambling old house on that Thanksgiving
day in the “long ago” that will bring that
family group and many another together
again in the great future, father, mother,
sons and daughters, with all their numer-
ous posterity however widely separated,
and whether they have died in foreign
lands, or at home, or even been buried in
the depths of the ocean. And for this
precious boon, the Everlasting Gospel, with
its powers and blessings, on this Thanks-
giving day—there is abundant cause for re- .
joicing, even though the house is lonely
and the heart sad with memories of the
days that have been, when happiness and
mirth abounded, and sweet voices now for-
ever hushed, were wont to make such
music as we shall never know again on
earth, and yet these same sweet faces, we
see as ’twere through the mist of falling
tears, and the voices echo in the stillness,
until we fancy, the curtain of the unseen is
lifted, and we are passing into the unknown.
						AUNT EM. 
November 28th, 1885.


MRS. ELIZABETH PRESTON DAVIS,
daughter-in-law of Hon. John Davis, is at
work on her calculations of the ephemeris
of the sum for 1900 while keeping up a
special conrse of study in Johns Hopkins
University.
	The Empress of Germany led her own
regiment of cuirassiers, of which she is colo- 
nel, in the grand military review which oc-
curred at Krekow last March. The report
says that the Emperor was astounded as
she galloped by followed by her regiment, 
and when she was returning the Emperor
met her half way and shook hands with
her. The performance was greeted with
the wildest enthusiasm by the spectators.
This was of course perfectly womanly and
proper, but if the Empress should join the
Frauenbevergung, what would the Em-
peror say?—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
	one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
        regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
    	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

          SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1895.


[Column 1]
FAITH IN THE FUTURE OF UTAH.

	SOME matters pertaining to the new state,
and the state of affairs in the new state, are
being discussed very fairly by women as
well as men, and why not? Women may
not be considered capable of judging impor-
tant issues and questions pending, that in-
volve property rights, individual rights and
marital rights, as well as rites; but they
have quite as much at stake, and perhaps
even more, for women have greater concern
with home and its relations to the state and
with children, and the homes are what the
nation is made up of principally and there
would be no nation if there were no children.
The class of people who migrate, and have
no settled homes are not a nation, they are
only a tribe; women then if so deeply in-
terested should qualify themselves to dis-
cuss intelligently, every question, which
pertains to the life and being and welfare of
this nation, and other nations; they should
acquaint themselves with geographical con-
ditions of country, especially their own
country, as well as other matters, that make
up the sum total. To be ignorant of these
things is to be at the mercy of other people,
and there is very little excuse for ignorance
in this day and age of the world in our free
and enlightened country. There are books
and magazines and newspapers everywhere
and on all subjects, and one is never too old
to learn while one lives.
	And now that women are so soon to as-
sume the responsibilities of the elective
franchise, it becomes a sacred duty to in-
form themselves upon the grave questions
of the times in which they are living. It
is not necessary to make it a public matter,
or to actively participate in public life most
women shrink from that, there are other
methods and ways of studying, and every
sensible wide-awake woman should avail
herself of the best opportunities possible to
her, or within her reach, to look into things,
and get at least a general idea of the gov-
ernment under which she is living and how
its affairs are conducted. 
	The women of Utah should not be be-
hind those of the neighboring states, where
equal suffrage is enjoyed and exercised; and
we have noted with great satisfaction (and
some little pride in the fact also) that our
sisters both in Wyoming and Colorado have
displayed considerable ability, and a good
degree of tact in the part they have taken
in the state affairs.
	It is a source of regret to those who are
specially interested in equal suffrage, that
women were not permitted to take part in

[Column 2]
the first Legislature of the New State, and
if the members elect are wise in their policy,
they will show some consideration for wo-
men in their deliberations when they
meet previous to the Legislative session
proper.
	There are appointive offices in which com-
petent women could do good work, and es-
pecially on all boards of education, of char-
ity and of reformatory institutions. It is
properly woman’s province to assist in
these matters, and even in some of the older
and conservative states where women have
not the ballot, appointments have been
given to women to take part with men in
such places. Certainly the men of Utah
who have been elected to occupy the
highest positions in the gift of the people,
will be just and magnanimous enough to
recognize women without being appealed
to personally; if they do not they will
greatly disappoint one half of the citizens
of this new state, who next year will cast
their votes for the men who have shown
that they would stand by the platform of
principles upon which they are elected.
Women in such positions as educational
charitable and reformatory should be
selected because of the fitness, adaptability
and capabilities for the place or places and
not because of party affiiliations; and when
the time comes that woman’s votes are
counted it is sincerely to be hoped, that they
will make this non-partisanship in educa-
tion, etc., one of the reforms, for which
they will exert their utmost influence.
	The first few years under Statehood will
undoubtedly be fraught with greater inter-
est to all the citizens of Utah than one can
comprehend beforehand. There is a destiny
for the great, West, which has been pre-
dicted by wise men and which is daily be-
coming more widely apparent that must be
fullfilled; and the generation now growing
up have this work to perform; and women
will be participants as well as men; there-
fore the education and growth of knowledge
on all progressive matters should be equal,
and in this way greater historical epochs
may be consummated, than where only
men do the planning, and thinking and
active work.
	“Westward the course of empire wends
its way!” will become more and more
the theme of the poet, and the historian, as
well as the statesman, and the leaders of
the people. Cities will be built up in the
now barren regions, and a higher state of
cultivation than has ever yet been known
will be the glorious future of the people of
the intermountain states: and they will yet
solve the most difficult problems that agi-
tate the world of mankind today.
	All that has ever been predicted of the
future fame and success of Utah, will be
more than realized and perchance during the
next decade. There should be no fear in
the hearts of the people, but a firm faith in
the providences of the Almighty, who will
not fail that people, who put their trust in
Him.


[Column 1]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 2nd, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder. Continued by sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Sister Alder was
called upon to act as secretary. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.

[Column 2]
	President Horne having arrived said she
was glad to meet with us again, said'
“this is a day when we should be as wise
as serpents but harmless as doves. We
should remember the teaching of Jesus,
how he walked and talked with his disciples, ’
yet they did not understand him. We are ,
responsible for our own actions. This is a -
time that Satan is working hard to over-
throw the saints. He and his emissaries,
are wide awake. Sisters becalm, we know
the right will triumph, and let us say “The.
Lord’s will be done.” Do we rely upon
God for grace? Let us watch and pray.
We must be wise and not let our sympathy
run away with our judgment. We should .
be just also. Do good to all but know
what the Gospel requires. The Gospel is
here and is free to all, shall we descend to
the level of those who reject it?
	Sister Peterson, bore her testimony, knew
the Gospel was true, and prayed to be stead-
fast to its principles.
	One sister in the congregation spoke of
the blessings of God to her, had worked in
His house for the dead. There is no true
happiness except among the saints of God.
	Another sister bore her testimony, always
rejoiced in this work. Be faithful, for the
stone from the mountains will crush all
other things, as it rolls forth. Let us
strengthen the hands of onr brothers and
sisters.
	Sister Laker said she put the kingdom of
God first. Pray God to bless all my sisters
and the brethren.
	Sister Morris, felt paid for coming to
meeting this afternoon. This is a day'of
trial, we came here to serve God. His
kingdom takes all. The weak the strong,
all can who wish to serve Him and keep
His commandments. The Lord is no-
respector of persons. We gain the truth,
but we cannot give it. All must seek for
it. I pray God to strengthen the sisters
who preside over us.
	Sister Julia Pack enjoyed herself in the
work of God, “I still feel firm in the work,
I desire to be true, and be faithful? We
need the Spirit of God, to have faith and
may we overcome in the end.!
Sister Hazen, “These meetings are a
source of joy to me. I feel at home, here,
I pray the Lord to strengthen us. The 
Lord blesses those who desire to serve
Him.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb, “I have been ",
in the Church many years, but never saw
a more momentous time than it is now.
Let us seek the Lord continually for wis-
dom. May peace and quiet be restored
again. In the Temple of our God there is
peace. Let us go there and labor. Get
the influence of that house, and take it
home with us. We need the spirit of love
and union. Let us meet together often and
may none of us go astray.”
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony, prayed for the spirit of God to
lead her at all times. Another sister, was
thankful that she was in the Church, never
doubted that this was the Church of God.
Desired to be worthy to be a child of God.
	Sister Julia Samson: “A time is coming
that we shall have to stand shoulder to
shoulder. We have no idea what is before
us. We should pray for God to strengthen 
us. The blessings promised to us (if we
are faithful) we can only gain in the end,
if we enjoy the Holy Spirit we have con-
tinual peace.
	Sister Alder bore her testimony and de-


sired to be faithful.
	Sister Phillips asked the aid of the Lord,
that she might do the work for some of her
dead, related a dream concerning the dead.
	This is a day that those who are not of
Israel will be sifted out.
	Closing remarks by President Horne.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Our God we raise to thee.” Benediction
Sister Elizabeth Paul.
	L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
will be held Saturday, December 14th,
1895, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
rooms in this city meetings commencing
at 10. a. m. and 2. p. m. It is urgently re-
quested that a representative from each
society in the stake be present, as verbal re-
ports are desired. A cordial invitation is
extended to the public.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last business
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, a quo-
rum being present, it was decided that the
annual report of the Society should be made
in February, therefore instead of dating
from the first day of January to the last day
of December inclusive, reports will be here-
after from February to February of each
year. This year reports must date from
the first day of January 1895, or otherwise
a correct record could not be
kept. Secretaries should be careful and
exact in conforming to this official notice.
All reports should be forwarded to the of-
fice of the Secretary, Constitution Building
Salt Lake City, not later than the 20th of
February.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


STATE W. S. A. OF UTAH.

	THE W. S. Association in the several
counties, in this Territory are hereby re-
minded that the memberships are due this
present month, and the State President has
been notified that the entire membership
must be sent on to the treasurer of the
National American W. S. A. otherwise we
shall lose our votes in the Convention dur-
ing the year 1896. Officers are urged to be
as diligent as possible in collecting and for-
warding the money with the names and
addresses of all paid up members to the
Treasurer Ella W. Hyde 246 W. 2nd South
St. Salt Lake City. These lists of names
and addresses must be certified to by the
President and Recording Secretary of the
respective auxiliary W. S. A. The State
President also requires a concise report of
the year’s work in each county to be for-
warded to her address, duriug this month in
time to include it in the yearly report which
must reach the Secretary of the N. A. W.
S. A. before January 1st 1896.
	E. B. WELLS, President.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
ETERNITY OF GOD.
	AT the Latter-Day Saints’ hall, 48 Sands
street, Elder S. W. Richards spoke yester-
day upon the “Eternity of God and the Im-
mortality of the Soul of Man,” quoting
Isaiah XL 12-14. Evidences of the ex-
istence of an intelligent being whom the
Christian world call God, he said, are so
numerous that to most intelligent minds
there is no doubt of this great ultimate fact.
They are discoverable in the creation of the
earth and of man to dwell upon it, demon-
strating an intelligence, wisdom and power
not possessed by man or any combination of
men. The idea of such a being as the
creator or organizer of material things has
existed among men since dwelling upon the
earth, and He must have existed before the
creative work was done, making Him, as
relates to earth and time, a being of eternity,
not limited by time as measured unto man.
He was before time and will be after time
—from everlasting to everlasting; un-
changeable, possessing and exercising at-
tributes that endure “while life or thought
or being lasts or immortality endures.”
Having accepted this fact as one which
consciousness approves, it becomes desir-
able to learn what relationship man sustains
to such an allwise, infinite and eternal God.
We are told that man’s body was formed in
the likeness and image of his maker—like
God’s body; that the spirit of life by which
it was quickened came from the same
source, and when thus animated the body
and spirit united became a living soul, and
that this creator God is the Father of the
spirits of all flesh; that when the spirit and
body are separated by death the spirit re-
turns to God, who gave it, while the body
returns to dust, from whence it came. The
fact that the spirit of man came from God
and shall return to him again proclaims the
eternity of the spirit. But what of the
body? Is the soul of man to be eternally
lost by an eternal separation of spirit from
the body? If so, then the work of God in
creating man is frustrated—made void by
the power of sin, and death has triumphed.
This cannot be, for it is written the grave
shall have no victory, death no sting.
Therefore, it must needs be that the spirit
and body be again united to become a liv-
ing soul, and in a state where there is no
death. In this state and condition it is im-
mortal, and the immortality of the soul is
accomplished.
	But who is to bring to pass this resurrec-
tion or reunion of the body and spirit? Not
man; he has no power to accomplish this.
it must be some one who has all power,
both in heaven and on earth—in heaven for
the spirit’s sake and on earth for the body’s
sake. This work can only be done by one
who is free from sin and over whom death
has no power. It must be the work of a
Redeemer, a Savior from this condition of
death, and this was accomplished by Jesus
Christ, who came to earth, died as men die
then arose from the dead and established
the resurrection or reunion of the spirit and
body for all men; as it is written that as in
Adam all died so in Christ shall all be made
alive; and the decree has gone forth that
this mortal shall put on immortality, this
corruption shall put on incorruption, and
the mission of Jesus shall restore all men
who ever lived to the condition of living
souls, and bring them again into the
presence of the Father to be judged for the
deeds done while living souls in the body.

[Column 2]
In the condition of immortality those who
have kept the law of God shall receive glory
and happiness forever, while those who
have rebelled against God and denied the
efficacy of the atonement shall go away to a
condition of misery and wretchedness, such
as their sins have justly merited, as shall be
determined by Him whose judgments are
just to all men.
	The programme of human existence was
devised from the time before the world was,
that here in a state of trial man might
prove his fidelity to God, the truth and
right and become developed in all the at-
tributes of a godly character, which at-
tributes have been transmitted and inherited
as a legacy from the Father to His children,
and all this that the children may become
like the Father, and in their turn know as
He knows, love as He loves and possess as
He possesses, kingdoms and thrones with
etemal lives, being made kings and priests
unto God to reign with Him forever.
	S. W. RICHARDS. 
	Brooklyn Eagle, Oct. 28th, 1895.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

L.
[Concluded.]
	“EDWARD, my boy, I look upon you al-
most as my own son” said Mr. Barrington,
“otherwise I would not open my heart to
you, but I feel assured you will not betray
my confidence. You already know some-
thing of my history, that I grew up with-
out love, or tenderness from any relative,
I was educated by my uncle, whom you
knew, but he had never even seen me, nor
did he know aught of me except from his
agents in London through whom I received .
my allowance. I came to America on
board the ship on which your father’s,
sister and husband,her cousin and husband,
Dr. Bland, were fellow passengers, and
made their acquaintance; your father was
at that time in foreign lands with Rob Har-
rison (my mother’s brother) who found me
here on his arrival, he was the favored
suitor of your grandfather Hilliard’s wife,
your Aunt Anna’s mother, but through a
conspiracy which has never quite been un-
raveled he lost her, and she became the
wife of Sir Edward. On returning from
his wanderings abroad he met your aunt at
a ball in London and was so struck by her
resemblance to his former sweetheart, and
cousin Clarice Courtney, that he obtained an
introduction, and voluntarily acted as a sort
of self-appointed guardian ever afterwards;
gave her away at the time of her marriage,
and so on. His intention then was to re-
main in England, but somehow he became
strongly attached to Miss Conway, who
was then acting as chaperone to Miss Hil-
liard (Lady Anna) and learning that she
was engaged to Dr. Bland, he decided to
go abroad again, believing fate was against
him in love affairs, and realizing your father
needed experience in the new position he
had been born to, though he knew it not
until his father’s (Sir Edward’s) death, he
decided to continue his wandering life, and
gave himself up wholly to travel, and such
enjoyment as one finds in new places, and
among fresh scenes. Finally from some
sudden impulse, he returned, to find every-
thing changed, and he also found me—the
rest you know except my own particular,
part in the life drama of the people we have 
talked of, which in some instances is more
of a tragedy.”


[Column 1]
	“I am naturally, I think, what some
people designate a religious devotee: I fully
intended when I was ordained to the
ministry to consecrate my life and talents to
the work, and with other dissenters em-
barked for America, where freedom of re-
ligious thought was unrestrained. I have
preached many years, and expect still to do
whatever may seem my duty in this respect
while I live. I never meant to let any-
thing, or any person come between me and
my profession; and I never have (save for a
few days once) but to proceed. You will
pardon my weakness, for I too was young
then, and one cannot quite control one’s
feelings even though a minister.”
	“But ministers marry except Roman
Catholics, uncle Sidney,” said Edward.
	“To be sure they do, but I had grown
up so apart from women, that I was not
like other young men, and my profession
was all in all to me:I almost worshipped
Anna Walton in a certain sense and she re-
turned my affection; but she was another
man’s wife, and therefore sacred, no
thought of making her mine, ever entered
my heart, nor her’s I am sure, for she was
devotion itself to Maitland Walton.”
“Then it was not my Aunt Anna you
were in love with as I had already gussed?”
“No, Edward it was not, and you must
not be shocked when I tell you who it was.
After the death of Lady Anna and of Dr.
Bland, when Mrs. Bland was so lonely and
in great need of sympathy, I was for a time
almost constantly in her company; she is
very fascinating, and has wonderful power
over those with whom she is associated, no
doubt you have heard, she was the only
person who possessed any real influence
with your grandfather, the Baronet. Is it
strange then that a young man, even though
he were a clergyman should have unwilling-
ly yielded to this peculiar charm of mind
and heart? I was not aware of the state of
my own feelings, until I was openly ac-
cused by some of my church members.
Then I was overwhelmed with the thought
forced upon me, and besought the Lord in
prayer; fear lest I had betrayed to Mrs.
Bland a secret, I myself had not realized
until then, humiliated me, until I was men-
tally ill. The Lord was very merciful to
me, and helped me to bear my sorrow alone.
I felt sure Mrs. Bland esteemed me as a
friend and brother and it comforted me to
think so; she had great need of some one
to whom she could speak confidentially. I
could not endure that she should think any
selfish motive had induced me to sympathize
with her in her loneliness. Yet my love
was none the less real, though it had stolen
upon me unawares.
“Very soon after—and while I was still
struggling with my pent-up emotions, Lord
Walton came back bringing his mother
with him and everything was changed.
It seemed providential—for as you know
later on my uncle returned, and then I
learned from his own lips, how he had
loved Jane Conway; and had gone abroad,
to try and forget, had taken your father
with him partly as a sort of tie between
himself and the family, and partly because
of his companionship—for he was an at-
tractive man in all endearing qualities.
My uncle wooed and won Mrs. Bland, and
O, how thankful I was, that I had never
spoken to her of my feelings. Had my
uncle returned and found me a suitor for
the hand of one he had loved, we could
never have been friends; as it was we were

[Column 2]
bosom companions. I myself solemnized
the marriage; and no one knew my secret.
I often trembled lest by voice, or manner I
should betray it. All these years it has
slept as it were until now; I have never
spoken before to any one. You Edward
seem to be more alone than other boys—
and my sympathy for you is greater because
of it, though to be sure Mrs. Harrison is
very much attached to you, yet I can see as
you do, that she has decided views against
intermarriages of relatives. I do not know
whether in your case these scruples can be
overcome. Conway took her by storm, he
has the same sort of masterful spirit, as
his mother, and as your grandfather. She
was compelled to submit in that case, but
in another similar one, I fear she would be
more unwilling still, and you are so en-
tirely different.”
	“Uncle Sidney can’t you intercede for
me, I know my aunt has great confidence
in your advice will you speak for me? I
am as truly an American in feeling and
sentiment as you are, I shall never return
to England, she need not fear that. I am
sure Clarice loves me, and we shall always
be near you—and with Aunt Jane. I
would ask Conway to intercede for me, but
I cannot approach him; he has nothing in
common with me, we are so different, but
you uncle Sidney surely you will succeed if
you attempt it, and who knows but in
pleading my cause you may have the
courage to tell your own story?”
	“No Edward, I am not so conceited as to
think Mrs. Harrison would ever think of
me except as her spiritual adviser, and a
friend of the family, I wonder at myself
whenever I dare to look into my own heart.
This conversation must never be repeated;
and you must not upon any account, or in
any way or at any time refer to it.”
	“It has given me great courage, to hear
what you have suffered and I can see how
brave and true you have been to your bet-
ter nature, it makes me feel how weak and
foolish I am, and but for your wise teach-
ing, and heroic conduct always, I should be
less manly than I am, I owe much to you
and to my Aunt Jane—that is why I can-
not bear to grieve her, or to go contrary to
her wishes, but if I cannot gain her consent,
in this matter, I shall never be good for
anything.”
	“So you think now my boy, but you can
rise superior to any obstacle if you will but
be determined, and put your trust in One
above, and take hold of some useful em-
ployment which will occupy your undivided
attention.”
	“I will speak to Mrs. Harrison in your
behalf the first good opportunity, but you
must not be too sure of my success; I know
how unhappy it will make her, to have
another marriage in her own family as it
were.”
	Sidney Barrington sought an interview
with Mrs. Harrison not many days after
his talk with Edward Hilliard, and found
her bitterly opposed to the uniou of “these
two children” as she called them. But she
considered the matter carefully as she
promised Mr. Barrington she would, and
after much deliberation and great persis-
tency on the part of Clarice who was very
determined, she permitted the marriage to
take place, not however withont many mis-
givings as to its propriety. It was very
evident to her friends and neighbors that
in her heart she wholly disapproved of it,
and in fact that she was sorely disappointed
in the marriages of her family.

[Column 3]
	Events of importance followed each other
in the years just subsequent to the marriages
in Mrs. Harrison’s family, and it was well
for even this brave-hearted, strong minded
woman that she had a friend like Sidney
Barrington to stand by her through trials
and difficulties, ever true as steel,ever hope-
ful, ever ready to strengthen her to endure
and point with faith in the future; for
though he had not the prophetic nature
she possessed yet he had that quality of
tenderness for all human woes, that tacit
sympathy never obtrusive, but ever helpful
to the sorrowing and those who suffer.
	Conway Bland became in time a man of
influence in the community and was highly
respected and useful, in fact quite celebrated
in his profession, and his mother was justly
proud of his attainments. His wife was
strikingly beautiful as her mother had been,
and their children were all that could be
desired.
	Edward Hilliard had never been
physically strong and gradually his health
failed, sometimes the physicians advised
him to go to Italy but that seemed almost
impossible with a wife and child, and Mrs.
Harrison could not consent to part from
them: love and gentle nursing with the
best medical skill could not save him, and
ere three years had elapsed from the date of
the marriage Clarice was left a widow. It
was good for her that she had the little one
to take her attention, for she was inconsol-
able with grief.
	Dr. Bland, Anna Walton and now Ed-
ward Hilliard were laid in the grave-yard
among the pines near the New England
coast, where the sea makes mournful music
not far off.
	While the family were plunged in sorrow
by the sad death of Edward Hilliard, who
should arrive to surprise them, without
even sending a message beforehand but
Kate Walton the great aunt of young Mrs.
Bland. It was a happy circumstance for
them all; it diverted their minds from the
affiction and loss which was very heavy.
Miss Walton was very cheery, and had
come for a change, she was tired of every-
thing, and after running the gauntlet of
seasides, summer resorts, and winters in
London, and Paris, bethought herself of
America and her grand-niece, and as she
said fearing if she wrote and asked permis-
sion, they would “think her a tiresome old
maid,” and perhaps say it was not con-
venient, she decided to take them unawares.
"And now I’m here” she said, one day
soon after her arrival, “you must make the
best of it.” And really she made herself
very agreeable; she had become quite a
sensible person, not at all like her former
self; and as she knew the history of the older
members of both families and even Jane
Conway’s mother the sister of Sir Edward
Hilliard, and many of the love affairs of
these people which had been a sort of hid-
den mystery, she was never tiresome and
the young people became somewhat familiar
with the family history, a generation or
two back. Miss Walton brought with her
from Walton Hall some old letters of Sir
Edward’s written to Lady Walton when
she was Helen Leigh and a queer old locket,
set with pearls, containing his picture when
a young man: these she gave to Mrs. Har-
rison saying, “I think Anna should have
her grandfather’s picture, but the letters
you may destroy, they belong to another
age.” Mrs. Harrison knew more of this
affair than the letters betrayed, but she
kept her own counsel—she had heard the


[Column 1]
story both from her uncle, and Lady Wal-
ton. What a book this woman might have
written, what incidents, what tragedies por-
trayed. Miss Walton was pleased with
America and stayed on and on busying
herself with Anna’s children like Mrs. Har-
rison and taking a deep interest in their
family affairs. She was as much impressed
with Mr. Barrington as the other members
of the family; and though she could not
quite accept his peculiar doctrines "being
too intensely English,” as she thought, yet
she always loved to listen to him when he
spoke in public, which he only consented
to do occasionally. Thanks to Miss Wal-
ton who brought with her across the sea all
the legends of the old castle, even to the
ghost stories and repeated them to the
young people, so that they became familiar
topics and were handed down from one
generation to another. Clarice made her-
self famous in literary work a tendency she
had inherited from her father Robert Har-
rison, and some of her writings are said to
have been very strong and forcible for the
day in which she lived and flourished, and
her poetical effusions tender, sympathetic
and fanciful. She never married again but
devoted her life to her mother and son, dy-
ing before her mother, who after her death
never seemed to have the same enjoyment
in affairs she had always hitherto mani-
fested.
	Meantime a family of young folks grew
up and married some of them becoming
quite distinguished, including Edward
Hilliard the son of Edward and Clarice and
grandson of Clair, and strange enough as
fate would have it, he chose one of the
Doctor’s daughters, a far-off cousin, beauti-
ful as a summer dream, but nevertheless of
the same kin; another grievous trial for his
grandmother, who had set her heart upon
his following her advice in reference to
marriage.
	All the characters mentioned have long
since been gathered home, into the un-
known, and sleep securely their last long
sleep. Jane Harrison learned of Sidney
Barrington’s attachment some years before
her death,through Kate Walton in whom he
confided on an occasion when she had in-
quired why he had never married or if he
had been ‘‘crossed in love in early youth.”
	He replied that he had never loved but 
once and then unhappily, and as Miss Wal-
ton was very fond of romance and had the
rare faculty of obtaining secret information,
she urged and persuaded him to make a
full confession, which he did; she repeated
the conversation in full to the lady herself
thinking it a good joke. Mrs. Harrison
took it seriously and it made her more
tender and deferential towards her life-long
friend; and her only reply to Miss Walton
was—‘‘It never could have been Kate, I
loved him as a brother but no more, and I
know he has been true without hope of re-
ward, but if he had loved you it might
have been different, I only wish you two
had met before,” Mrs. Harrison was as-
sured, in her own mind, that Kate Walton
had an especial regard for the minister,
though he was young enough to have been
her son. It is a pity to analyze too
definitely the hearts of men and women,
even though they died long ago, that they
were human is doubtless true of all who
have ever lived, and we venture the opinion
that Kate Walton and Sidney Barrington
were no exception to the common rule of
rall the world.
	Miss Walton died in America an aged

[Column 2]
spinster, and was buried beside Lady An-
na—where not long after Sidney Barring-
ton was also laid to rest. Edward Walton died
comparatively young and without heirs, as
the last Lady Walton had no claim upon
the entailed estate, the property was thrown
into chancery the American relatives mak-
ing no sort of protest.
	Of their descendants not much is known
save of one a woman, of like characteristics
to Jane Conway, but she lived in the
nineteenth century though born a few years
before it begun. She knew the history of
her ancestry, and told the stories of the old
castles and great elms and oaks, and parks
and green fields and hedges to her family,
with many incidents of interest not men-
tioned here, and she was proud of the
descent and of the inheritance of good blood,
and an honored name, and especially of the
remarkable woman, Jane Conway,
and this strong-minded prophetic daughter
of their race inherited much of their
nobility, though she had not the wealth to
which she was legally entitled.
	In the early days of the preaching of the
Everlasting Gospel in this dispensation,
this grand woman of refined temperament
and gentle blood, embraced the truth and
cast her lot with the peculiar people who
gathered in the Western States, and there
she commenced to lay a foundation for the
redemption of her noble ancestry, which it
is ardently hoped her posterity will continue,
for it is evident from the records of these
families they were people of destiny.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

WILLARD, BOX ELDER.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	THINKING you had not heard from us
for some time and it being advisable to
write a few lines to your valuable paper, I
do so with pleasure.
	Our Relief Society was reorganized on
the 12th of August, 1895, with our aged
President, Sister M. A. Hubbard, (nearly
eighty years of age) still acting as presi-
dent, she has been our president from the
first, and her trusty counselors and mem-
bers feel to try and make her responsibilities
as light as possible, and are trying to do all
the good they can. There has been some
severe cases of typhoid fever here this fall,
and some of a lighter form, but all are get-
ting better now, for which we are all very
thankful.
	Praying God to bless all who labor in the
good cause.
	We remain as ever your sisters in the
Gospel.
MARY ANN HUBBARD, Prest.
BETHIAH T. WELLS, Sec.

RICHMOND.
	Minutes of the 16th annual meeting of
the Richmond Primary Association, Presi-
dent Harriet Fisher presiding. Singing,
“Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by Sister Sarah
Stocks. Singing “Gather up the Sun-
beams.” Minutes of the last anniversary
were read and accepted. Also the Financial
and Statistical report. The first on the pro-
gramme was a dialogue, entitled the
“Greatest Man,” by Lowell and Hattie
Merrill. Emma Sorensen recited “A
welcome address.” Nettie and Lydia
Schow sang, “Let it pass.” Lawrence
Monson gave a recitation. Caroline and
Annie Anderson sang, “Song of little Ma-

[Column 2]
bel.” Harry Vetty gave a recitation.
Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen gave
good instructions, encouraged the children
in the Primary work. Marian Hendricks
recited “Poverty Plagues.” “Welcome
song” by a class of girls. Sister Hannah
Brower read an original address entitled
“Our Prophet Brigham,” also spoke a short
time. Questions and answers about chil-
dren were answered by a class of small
boys. Libbie and Maggie Johnson sang a
song. Hazel Robinson recited “God sees.”
Stake Counselor Emma B. Pike spoke a
short time giving excellent instruction.
Willie Adamson recited “A boy’s com-
plaint.” Alvaretta and Orella Merrill re-
cited a dialogue entitled “Helping Mother.”
Mertie Harris recited “Every inch a man.”
	Resolutions of respect in loving remem-
brance of Eva Ann Brower were read by
Harriet E. Lawrence.
	“Resolutions of respect in memory of Eva
Ann Brower a member of the Richmond
Primary Association. It is with sadness we
record the death of our little friend Eva,
the beloved daughter of Henry and Annie
Brower who departed this life after a ling-
ering sickness Aug. 29th, 1894, aged ten
years seven months and fifteen days She
was a lovely, dutiful child and held the re-
spect of all who were acquainted with her.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we her
friends and associates hold in remembrance
the life of one whose actions in the past
merit the reward of the faithful, and be it
also,—
	Resolved that in her death our associa-
tion has lost one of its most promising mem-
bers,—
	And be it further resolved that a copy of
these resolutions be given to her parents
and also a copy be placed on the record of
our Primary Association.”
	Bishop William L. Skidmore spoke a
short time counseling the children to be
obedient and do what is right.
	Singing, “We are the children of the
Saints.” Benediction by Counselor Chris-
tian Hyer.
	Minutes of the afternoon session of the
Primary annual meeting, President H. H.
Fisher presiding. Singing love at home.”
Prayer by Sister Mary Allsop. Singing
“Live for something.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the last Primary Anni-
versary were read and accepted. Sarah
Smith recited “June queen of summer.”
Wesley Merrill and Pauline Hendricks
sang, “Children’s day.” Sampson and
Leroy Webb recited a dialogue entitled
“The Deacon.” Effie Tippetts gave a reci-
tation. Questions and answers entitled
“The Church,” were recited by a class of
small girls. Julia and Jessie Hendricks
sang “Bessie Fair.” Bertha Monson re-
cited “The Explosion.” Charlie Webb
and Company sang, “The Mormon boy.”
Sister Mary Allsop recited “The power of
God.” Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen
spoke a short time. Song “I cannot catch
the sunbeams” by a class of small girls. A
dialogue entitled "Learning to smoke,” by
Roy Burnham, Willie Barnett, Elmer Mer-
rill and Bertha Johnson. Erma Griffen
gave a recitation. Inez Rainey and Flor-
ence Pet y sang a song. Flora Burnham
recited “Little hero.” Eva Gridla gave a
recitation. Mrs Belle Petty and company
sang a song. Stake Counselor Emma B.
Pike spoke encouragingly to the children.
President Harriet Fisher thanked all for
their help in making our meeting a success


Singing “Little Feet." Benediction by
Counselor Wallace K. Burnham. 
	HARRIET H. FISHER, President.
MARY C. MERRILL	}
MINNIE D. JOHNSON }Counselors. 
	HARRIET E. LAWRENCE, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
	[Continued.]
	Miss Anthony; Now I want to intro-
duce to you a full-fledged voter, Mrs. Brad-
ford, who was nominated on the Democratic
ticket for State Superintendent of public 
instruction. Now Mrs. Bradford comes to
you not having voted as yet for President,
from a state where it has always been urged
that women would not vote if they could,
but I have been told by an Ex-governor
that in Colorado, Denver, especially, that a 
large majority of the women went to the 
polls and cast their vote; so that settles
that objection that women wont vote.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BRADFORD.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: With Miss 
Anthony and Miss Shaw on the program
were it not from the fact that I am from
Colorado, it would be quite unnecessary for
me to say anything to you; but still I have
an advantage, I can vote, I have voted and
I mean to vote as long as I live, and I love
to vote. (Applause.)
	There are so many things that have been
said against suffrage that in the eighteen
months since we have possessed it, have
been absolutely contradicted in my own ex-
perience, that I think it possible that I shall 
do you the most service if I confine myself
to telling you something about what I
actually know, have actually seen done and 
have done myself. Mr. Roberts, a Demo-
crat, said at the Convention words some-
thing to this effect, I am quoting it: “he
said he thought there would be no objec-
tion to women going to the ballot box
quietly, but the primaries and conventions
and things of that sort would be so ex-
tremely degrading to women. I have taken 
part in primaries, I have taken part in two
conventions, I have stumped that State
twice and I don't feel a bit degraded. The
women in Colorado take a great interest in
politics, many of us a far greater interest
than the men; in fact you know there are
only half as many women in Colorado as
men, yet 60 per cent of the votes last
year were cast by women. I think that is
a pretty good record for the sex who would
not vote if they could. (Applause.)
	It has been said that the women would 
be so extremely partisan and so excessively
excitable. Now I have always heard the
most beautiful tribute to woman was her
power to become a peacemaker, and I sup-
pose the men think she would lose that
lovely quality and become partisan. Now
you know in colorado instead of becoming 
partisan and fighting among ourselves, the
women of one party organized into a state
club or state organization and they said to
the men who had two separate organiza-
tions and yet are called by the same name
and had been in that condition for two 
years and a most disgraceful condition it
was; this State organization of women 
said: "We will organize in every county in
this State, we will recognize all you men by

[Column 2]
the name of the party to which from princi-
ple we belong and which we love and hon-
or, but you don't get a single vote and we
won't sit in a convention until you shake
hands and make up and stop that quarrel-
ing. (Applause.)
	So we stood together and I went out over
the State, in every county in the state and 
the men shook hands, and when they came
to Denver they organized in two separate
conventions as usual and the elected the
women delegates and we went to the morn-
ing sessions, and the afternoon sessions
and we called ourselves by the name of the
party, and not by the name of their faction
and we said they would have to do some-
thing so they came together in one big con-
vention and they said "God bless the wo-
men; they did it!" (applause) So we carry
that most pleasing of all qualities the love
of peace and the power to bring about 
peaci in our political parties, and that is not
the only thing, we know how to be decent
to our political opponents.
	When I was in the Southern part of the 
State a dear friend of mine said to me:
"They are going to give you a reception to-
day and that reception must be at my
house." I replied, "What do you think of
a Democratic reception being given in a 
Populist's house?" And she said, "It
doesn't make any difference, I love you and 
I am going to keep you my friend just the 
same. We should be able to recognize the
good in all parties and to preserve and
maintain the right, to be gentlemen and
gentlewomen, to carry out the beautiful
rule to "do unto others as you would have
them do unto you." So I think our in-
fluence was decidedly good. 
	Men are supposed to be civilized enough
by the influence of women, and in mining
camps men become a great deal better and
more gentle, I went to one place in Colorado
and I was met by a committee and the wife
of the Chairman of the Committee came to
see me shortly afterwards. She said, "My
husband blacked his boots the first time in
his life when he went to the train to meet
you." (Laughter and applause.) We 
taught politeness, we taught the men to be
as careful of the woman politician as of the 
woman in the home, and instead of lessen-
ing our power we had just as much rever-
ence paid to us and the reverence had a 
good deal of solid interior respect behind it
instead of merely outside ceremony.


HELEN KELLER, the deaf and blind girl,
is in New York attending the Wright-
Humason School for oral instruction to the
deaf, and has made such progress that she
is looking forward to entering college.
Those who talk to her can now speak to
her as they would to any one else. She
hears them through her fingers by placing
them on the lips, face and throat of the
person speaking.
	MME. HANNA KORANY, who came to
America as delegate from Syria to the
World’s Fair, has left the country for a
visit to her native land. Her heaith has
been seriously affected by onr climate, but
she proposes to return and become an
American citizen, having taken out her
“intention papers” previous to her de-
parture. Korany was the first woman to
speak in public in Syria, and she has given
many lectures in different parts of her coun-
try. She is famous, also, for her writings,
and is called the “George Eliot of the
East.” She has spoken before many wo-


men’s clubs in the United States, and has
engagements for lectures and articles on
her return.
	“MARCELLA” appears as one of the char-
acters in the December instalment of Mrs.
Humphrey Ward’s novel, “Sir George
Tressady,” in The Century. “Marcella”
is now Lady Maxwell.


IN MEMORIAM.
	The following resolutions of respect were
adopted by the Pleasant Grove First Ward Re-
lief Society in memory of Sister Emeline Richards
who departed this life February 24th, 1895. She
was born June 27th. 1857 and leaves a husband
and six children to mourn her loss, the youngest
being only twelve days old.
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call home Sister Emeline Richards,—
	Resolved, that we deeply mourn the loss of an
active member of the Relief Society, who was
ever willing to assist in all good works, was very
generous, and a friend to the poor. She was a
devoted wife and mother and respected by all
who knew her. We feel to extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved husband, mother-
less children and relatives, and can only point
them to a higher source for consolation in their
hour of need.
	Resolved that these resolutions are entered in
our minutes, a copy presented to the bereaved
family and forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
	PATIENCE ARCHER, President.

			{P. E. BROWN
Committee.	{F. E. STEWART
			{SARAH FOUTZ


LOUISE JOSEPHINE LAPORTE LANG.

[Brief Sketch of Life.]
	LOUISE JOSEPHINE LAPORTE LANG daughter of
Joseph Marie Laporte and Louise Perret, was
born Nov. 8, 1828. at Cluses Savory, France.
	At the age of twenty-two, she went to Geneva,
Switzerland, where she was married to John
Daniel Lang in 1857.
	She was born and raised In the Catholic Faith,
but embraced the Gospel, with her husband, in
the fall of 1863, being baptized by Elder Conrad
Schweitzer, emigrated to Utah with her little
daughter (her husband following the next year)
arriving in Salt Lake City, on the 22nd of Sep.
1869, where she resided until her death; with the
exception of five months, living in Beaver duriug
the winter of 1882—83. Although an invalid for
nearly one year; she died suddenly of hemorrhage
of the lungs, at her residence in the 15th Ward,
Salt Lake City, July 18th, 1895; aged sixty-five
years eight months and ten days.
	She was the mother of three children, two sons
and one daughter.
	She leaves her husband, a daughter and a son
(who is on a mission in Europe) six grand-child-
dren and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	She had been a member of the Relief Society
of the 15th and 17th Wards of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, where she had acted in the
capacity of a teacher.
	While in the “old world,” her door was ever
open as a home to the missionaries and in a hum-
ble way she led a faithful and exemplary life and
died as she had lived, in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	Written by her daughter,
	HORTENSE MARY  JONES.
Salt Lake City Aug. 11th, 1895.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

