[Vol12 | July 1925 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Notes from Field Amy B. Lyman]

Notes From The Field Amy Brown Lyman
Swiss-German Mission
The two K?nigsberg Relief Society branches have a membership of 110 active members. Even though many are compelled to work ten hours a day to earn a living, they are nevertheless willing to give two hours a week to Relief Society work. These two organizations are particularly successful in enlisting the younger women in the cause, as well as giving enthusiasm to the older members. Even the smaller children lend their efforts in
THE K?NIGSBERG RELIEF SOCIETY
the knitting of stockings, and are happy in the knowledge that some little needy child will receive the same. The presidents of these organizations state that it is a joy to work in the Relief Society because the members use every effort and talent to build up the work of the organization through caring for the sick, sympathizing with the distressed, and standing by the needy in their trials. By the use of monthly topics the visiting teachers are doing a fine work. They teach that it is more blessed to give than to receive; and so, regardless of the resources of the members, they always have a small donation for the visiting teachers. The teachers also encourage each one visited to submit questions regarding household management and affairs. These questions are answered at the next regular session during the time spent in sewing.


Australian Mission
Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission writes: "On February 13, in company with President Hyde and Miss Esther Stanford, my niece who came to Australia with me, I left Sydney for Melbourne, where we held conference. The opportunity was given me to present Relief Society work, and Miss Stanford gave one of the lessons taken from the Relief Society Magazine, showing how such a lesson should be presented. We took the work up in this way because the organizations here had not been following closely the lessons given in the Magazine and we felt that by a proper presentation of such lessons, the value of them would be better appreciated, and this proved to be true. Many expressions of commendation were given by the sisters who were present at the conference. Mrs. Hannah Griggs is president of the organization at Melbourne.
"On the following Sunday we held conference in Hobart, Tasmania, where the new chapel was dedicated by President Hyde and conference was held with the Saints. On Tuesday night following, the Relief Society met with about forty women, a number being non-members. The same instructions and lessons were given there. This Society is presided over by Mrs. Julia Nash and has been organized for about three years. Our explanations of the Relief Society work and the value of the lessons were very kindly accepted in this conference and we feel sure that good will result in meeting with the sisters.
"We went from Hobart to Adelaide, in South Australia, and held conference with the Saints on Sunday, March 1, and on Monday night about thirty of the sisters met together and received instructions in Relief Society work. The Adelaide Society is a very active organization, presided over by Mrs. Alva Leonard. They have been active in gathering funds for their organization and have recently bought a piano for the church there, which has been much appreciated by the elders and Saints. The branch in Adelaide was organized about two years ago; since then they have been very helpful to the president of the conference and their efforts are appreciated very much by him."
Central States Mission
The Independence, Missouri, Relief Society which has enrolled forty members, is in a flourishing condition at the end of a winter which has made many demands upon its resources. A majority of the members attend the meetings regularly and all are active in the various phases of Relief Society work. March 17 was a most enjoyable day for the members when the 83rd anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated. The members met in the amusement hall of the church
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 379
and spent the forenoon in quilting. At noon a delicious luncheon was served to more than eighty persons. A general color scheme of green and white was carried out in the attractive decorations, the traditional shamrock being used as favors. The employees of Zion's Printing & Publishing Company were numbered among the guests, as were also many who are non-members. At the completion of the last course of the luncheon and while the guests were still seated at the tables, an interesting program was given which was characterized by the spirit of the Relief Society work and by old Irish ballads appropriate to the day. On the 28th and 29th of March, during the quarterly conference held at Independence, the Relief Society members served a regular homecooked dinner on both days. Approximately three hundred and fifty people were accommodated during that time. The net receipts added to the treasury amounted to $44.30.
North Sanpete Stake
At the stake quarterly conference held March 21 and 22, the Relief Society held two sessions which were very instructive. Two excellent lectures were given on the subjects of "Cooperation," and "Goitre." Departmental work was conducted during the afternoon session. There were over two hundred members present at the morning session from the three organizations: Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary, and one hundred fifty present in the afternoon.
Kolob Stake
Anniversary Day was observed as a stake day, all the wards meeting at the Second ward Chapel, Tuesday, March 17. The outstanding number on the program was a pageant representing the organization of the Relief Society, which was under the direction of Counselor Eva M. Crandall. Catherine B. Salisbury was the reader and all those taking part were members of the Relief Society. The pageant was followed by a special feature from each ward of the stake. The opening musical numbers were by the Relief Society chorus. Invocation was offered by E. M. Snow of the stake presidency, after which a speech of welcome was given by the stake president, Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall, followed by a talk by President J. F. Bringhurst. At the close of the program refreshments were served to nearly five hundred people. By request, the same program was given at the opera house the following Friday evening when a small admission charge was made and the proceeds turned over to the community welfare department of the Kolob stake Relief Society.
Cache Stake
The Relief Society of the Fifth ward of Cache stake recently


held a bazaar. The sum raised from this affair was $328.67. A few days later the proceeds of the bazaar were ready to be turned over to the bishop of the ward, to be used in redecorating the Relief Society room, and other class rooms in the ward meeting house. The success of the undertaking was due to the splendid organization, and the loyal work of the women of the Relief Society, and the hearty support of the people who patronized the bazaar. Following is a list of some of the articles contributed by Relief Society women: home-made quilts; crocheted, braided and woven rugs; numerous articles of new clothing; fancy work; old clothing to be remodeled; home-made cakes; home-made candy, and other refreshments. The fish pond arranged for by the Relief Society proved to be an exciting feature and a rich source of revenue. The bazaar was one of the most successful affairs ever given in the ward and demonstrates what may be done by a group working for a common purpose. In the evening a play was given by the Relief Society women. This was followed by a dance in the ward recreation hall, which was attended by about four hundred people. Shortly after the bazaar, it was decided that a new carpet was needed for the Relief Society room. A call was made for the women of the ward Relief Society to meet and bring rags to be made into a new rag carpet. This call met with a hearty response, fifty-six women answering. These members met in the recreation hall and held an old-fashioned rag bee. One hundred twelve pounds of rags were cut and sewed and twenty pounds of sewed rags were sent in by members who were unable to be present. A most successful and enjoyable day was spent and the members have the satisfaction of knowing that in one day material for sixty-five yards of carpet was assembled, prepared and sent to the weaver.
Wasatch Stake
Wasatch stake has carried on a number of activities during the past year, which have been very helpful to the various communities. Prizes were offered by the Relief Society at the holiday season for the best Christmas poem and the best Christmas story. On Mother's Day each year a beautiful gold medal is given by the Relief Society to the high school student writing the best essay on the subject of "Mother." During the summer months last year an interesting feature was the preparation of a special program by each ward. After the programs were given in the home ward, they were rotated so that each ward had the benefit of them all. The cooperative work between the stake Relief Society and the Agricultural College has been very successful. In connection with the Home Nursing work, 197 health cabinets have been established in that many homes, the cabinets containing all sorts of
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 381
emergency and first aid articles. Two hundred homes were reached in connection with the instructions on infant feeding. General posture and the care of feet received attention. One hundred forty women tried out the regime, and the merchants in the various communities were asked by the women to put in proper shoes and to pay more attention to proper fitting of shoes. Four demonstrations were given on the care of burns and bruises. Demonstrations in sewing, millinery, cleaning, dyeing and pressing clothes were given on work and business meeting days and on special days, with no interference whatever with the regular work. In the dressmaking course, 1,352 patterns were cut, 86 suits were cleaned and pressed, 40 hats were made at a cost of $40.75. If bought at a shop these hats would have cost $92.65.
The Sabbath Sun Serenely Falls
The Sabbath sun serenely falls Adown the ruddy west And evening, quiet evening, calls The dreamy world to rest.
And now we meet from many ways? Our worship all our care? To give our lips to songs of praise, Our thankful hearts to prayer.
With spirits bowed and penitent Around the board we meet, Renewed in faith and covenant, To hold communion sweet.
Here Jesus, as of old, imparts His precepts high and true, And, kindled in our grateful hearts, His spirit burns anew.
?Theodore E. Curtis.