SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference of December
21, 1901, opened in the 14th Ward Hall,
with President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, "O, give me back my prophet
dear." Prayer by Sister E. J. Stevenson. 
Continued by singing, "Weep, weep not
for me Zion." Minutes of morning session
of previous conference read and accepted.
	President Horne felt we were more in-
different in attending our conferences in
the city than elsewhere. Are we preparing
for the Savior? Thought He could say if
He should come today, "Shall I find faith 
in the earth?"
	Branches all reported except five.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde's resignation was
read and accepted and she was given a
vote of thanks.
	A report of the work in the Temple was
read.
	The names of the officers of the General
Board were read and sustained. The
Stake officers were sustained as follows:
M. I. Horne, president; Sarah J. Cannon, 
first counselor Clara C. Cannon, second
counselor; J. S. Woolley, secretary; Maggie
C. Hull, treasurer; Maria W. Wilcox, 
corresponding secretary; Julia C. Howe,
Lydia D. Alder, aids. All presidents of 
branches in the Salt Lake Stake were sus-
tained. 
	President Horne spoke upon the duties
of the Relief Society members. Keep from
evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and
attend our meetings. 
	President B. W. Smith felt we should 
look after the poor and make their hearts
rejoice during the cold weather. Let us
be united. Felt she had a great responsi-
bility, wished to do all she did prayerfully
and honorably. Felt pleased with 
her counselors and all officers. "It 
is our duty to keep the Temple clean
and it must be attended to." 
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society
work is a sacred responsibility on every
officer and member. Felt the teachers
should help take care of their respective
blocks. Spoke of the birthday of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith and his true friendship
for women, that she had enjoyed her work
in the Stake and felt she had a great re-
sponsibility in her new position. Said
the people usually donate liberally at 
Christmas time, and we must distribute
liberally to them. Was pleased the 
Prophet Joseph Smith's birthday was to
be celebrated. Believed it should be, that
he was a great gift from God. Spoke of
the trials and experiences of President
Joseph F Smith in the early days. Felt
we do not appreciate our blessings. Let
us speak of all the best we can. 
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction, C. C. Cannon. 
	Afternoon session of conference called to
order at 2 o'clock by President M. I. 
Horne. Singing, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Prayer by Maria
W. Wilcox. Singing, "Praise to the man
who communed with Jehovah." Minutes of
afternoon session of last conference read
and accepted. 
	President M. I. Horne felt that there is
nothing greater or grander to read about
than the life's experience of President
Joseph Smith, and the difficulties he had to
encounter in doing the work he had to
accomplish. 
	President B. W. Smith said she was
very young when she became acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a

[column 2]
strong testimony of his mission before she
every saw him and was always anxious to
hear him speak, he was always full of in-
struction and revelation. She was often
in his society and was well acquainted with
him. Her husband was one of the Twelve.
She was at the organization of the Relief
Society when Joseph Smith often visited
and gave instruction to its members. He
said, "I will live and die amongst you, and
you won't know me." Said his wife, 
Emma, was much beloved. 
	Amellie W. Wardrop was chosen and
sustained as secretary of our Saturday
meetings.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had
often heard him speak. Remembered the
night of his death and of viewing his re-
mains in the mansion house. Felt it a
great privilege to have known him. 
	Sister Lambert said she had a testimony of
the Gospel the moment she saw the Proph-
et. There was a power in him she never
knew in another. Thought the harmony
and order there is among the people should
be a testimony to the world. The night of
his death was one of sorrow. There was
no sleep in our house, it seemed all nature
was awake, the cattle even could not rest. 
	President Bassett said she remembered
seeing him. 
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said she re-
membered how even the little children
wept at his death. 
	The congregation sang, "The Spirit
of God." 
	President Horne said she had often en-
tertained the Prophet Joseph Smith. He
often spoke of the mistranslations of the
Bible and gave much instruction upon
the domestic phase of life, said he was
jovial and pleasant to all. She also 
spoke of the noble parentage of our
present President, Joseph F. Smith. 
	President Angus M. Cannon was first
acquainted with President M. I. Horne in
1844. Said he had heard Joseph Smith
bear a testimony of God. "He has brought
us a knowledge of the truth. The man or
woman is rich who has faith in the Lord." 
Spoke of the mission of our Savior, of His
prayer in Gethsemane to let the bitter cup
pass, but He at last submitted and said, 
"Let thy will, not mine, be done." Let
us remember the mercies and blessings of
God. 
	Brother Jos. E. Taylor was the next
speaker. He said when he was a young
man and his mind was depressed and
darkened he would speak of the mission of
Joseph Smith, and these feelings departed
and his mind was lit up. Was glad his
birth was to be celebrated. Nothing could
be said of him that was too good. He
crossed the river at Nauvoo and healed
every man he touched. Spoke of the
righteousness of Hyrum Smith. Every-
thing that we require to take us into our
Eternal Father's presence Joseph Smith
held the keys to. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was then set
apart by Presidents Angus M. Cannon and
Jos. E. Taylor; Julia S. Woolley set apart
as secretary of Stake; Amelia W. Ward-
rop as secretary of Saturday meetings. 
	President Horne wished all a merry
Christmas and a happy and prosperous New
Year. 
	Meeting adjourned for three months. 
Singing, "The God we adore." Bene-
dfction by President A. M. Cannon. 
