			IXION.

She sat with downcast face and tearful eyes,
	And sighed as if her heart were very sore.
Her friends beheld—and with a look of deep sur-
	prise
Asked: “Whatever canst thou ask for more?

“See! thou hast husband, children, home and
		friends,
	Health, peace and happiness without restraint,
Not these alone! He now another blessing sends—
	Wealth, and honest fame without a taint.”

But still she sat with downcast, tearful eyes;
	And still she sighed; yet answered low and
		meek:
“I do not fail, my friends, to realize,
	The worth of all the gifts of which you speak.

“Yet am I troubled! Sorrow have I known
	And sickness o’er and o’er; while Death and I
With frequent greetings have familiar grown.
	O, give me strength to bear, has been my cry.

“And now, when ease, prosperity and peace,
	Spread out their glittering web for my poor
		feet,
I shrink! and question if some magic fleece
	Hath not wrought out for me this wonder sweet

“Prosperity, and ease, and peace! What snares
	Are hidden in thy brilliant velvet wings.
Wealth, fame and honor! what weight of cares
	Will linger in thy smiling, subtle stings.


“I’ve loved the Christ; and with that love have
		sought
	To fashion life upon His solemn story.
Trial and death, and woe and pain have wrought
	In my past life a gleam of His great glory.

“And now the sorest trial, the keenest test,
	Of all that He has hitherto sent me,
Approaches with a gay and laughing jest,
	And even thou the danger cannot see.

“Dear friend, thou’st loved me in my low estate,
	And wept and prayed with me in bitter hours,
Now further prove thy love, and pray and wait,
	Till God withdraws the thorns from these His
		flowers.

“You know my heart, you know my great desire
	While I may live on earth to serve the Lord.
To rear the little ones so that they aspire
	For nothing greater than His spoken word.

“Ah, pray for me! and ever as you pray
	Ask Him to give me grace for every hour.
Let Him rebuke, chastise me day by day,
	Nor leave me to that other Evil Power.

“Whatever we may do, or me or mine
	To speed the cause of Righteousness today
With fame or wealth, oh let us do! They’re
		Thine,
Oh, Lord, If we misuse, then take them all
		away.

“Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there’s one
	We most desire; the gift of Love! And then—
So loving all Thou has created—give us
	Power to help Thee save the souls of men!”


