[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, September 26,
1901, at 2 o’clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O Jesus,

[Column 2]
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister J. S.
Woolley. Song, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Minutes read and approved.
	President Horne felt we would be blessed
though we are few in number, said those
who come together are fed and blessed
by the Spirit of God. Felt the more we
talk and read of spiritual things, the more
we have of the Spirit of God. We find
this in reading the Book of Mormon.
Recommended all to read the Doctrine and
Covenants as this is his word to us today.
Every blessing is comprised in the Gospel,
both spiritual and temporal. Said she
had recently attended a Relief Society
conference at Nephi where a good spirit pre-
vailed.
	Sister B. W. Smith said she always liked
to be encouraged and not scolded, that she
liked to associate with the cream of the
earth and she felt she found them here
that she was sure Sister Zina was happy
where she is, that she could not shed a
tear except for the loss of her society.
"Let us prove by our works our sincerity
to God.”
	Sister Brown spoke of the pleasure she
had in meeting here in the 14th Ward.
Felt there were thousands of good sisters,
but wondered why more did not attend
more faithfully to their duties.
	The congregation sang, "May we who
know the joyful sound.”
	Sister Barrow felt this is the true
Gospel. She wished to set a good example
before her people. Felt if we call upon the
Elders in faith we will always receive a
blessing at their hands.
	Sister Southern said she wished to be a
Latter-day Saint. Sister Matison bore her
testimony.
	The congregation sang "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Palmer felt we will be blessed if
we live according to the testimonies we
bear, and that it is a great responsibility
we have.
	Sisters Brooks and Moody bore their
testimonies, felt the hand of the Lord had
been over them for good all their lives,
they received many blessings every day.
Felt we should have faith in the Lord
when we are sick and he will heal us.
	Two other sisters bore testimonies and
said we must remember our actions and
words are watched by angels, that the
testimony we bear on earth we must meet
in heaven.
	Sister Mary Morris said the Lord blesses
us as we bless others.
	Sister Barnes considered these meetings
as a school. Sister Stevenson spoke of the
temptations that are around us, and we
should be indeed careful. Said “Let us
exert ourselves to have wisdom in setting
examples and giving words of counsel to
our young people. Spoke of the beautiful
spirit that reigns in Orderville, (where she
had just visited) of the love that prevails
there. Said she knew that President
Snow was a prophet of God. She had
visited Cassia Stake since our last meeting
and the sisters there were filled with love
for one another.
	Sister Paul felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in answering her prayers in
her grandson’s conversion to the truth and
many other things. Said Sister Zina gave
her such a blessing that she had never
received from any other mortal.
	A sister from Orderville bore her testi-
mony. Said she had come to Salt Lake

[Column 3]
City to work in the Temple, that she
always loved to live in the order that was
preached there many years.
	President Horne spoke for a few minutes
on the power that is given to Satan, that
the very elect will be almost deceived.
Said we should always be led by the
whisperings of the Spirit. The Lord gives
us blessings as we seek for them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Lydia
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


