UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The Young Woman’s Journal, a monthly 
magazine, was started in the interest of the
young women of the Territory, in October
1889, with Susa Young Gates as editor.
Lucy A. Clark, one of the charter mem-
bers of the Press Club, was for two or
three years editor of the Farmington Flash-
light. Others are doing a good work on
the same lines who are not named, their
labors not having been specially mentioned.
Among Utah’s best poets is Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, who has written much that has the
true poetic fire and spirit. 
	Among those first mentioned is Lula
Greene Richards, first editor of the
EXPONENT. She was married the next
year after its publication to L. W. Rich-
ards. Soon after Miss Cornelia S. Horne
was made business manager of the paper.
Mrs. Richards’ home duties increased, and
several of the contributors of the paper
offered assistance, among them was Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	In May, 1875, Mrs. Wells assumed
regular duty in the office. Later Miss
Horne resigned her position for a higher
one in a home of her own. In July, 1877,
Mrs. Richards vacated the editorial 
chair in favor of Mrs. Wells. One of our
best prose and poetical writers is Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, who has published three
books, one of them a book of poems. She
is very happy in her descriptions of every
day happenings. She is especially good in
essays, stories, either long or short, and has
written various articles as well as biogra-
phical sketches She also excels where
thought is required and elegant expression.
	Lu Dalton and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
(the last named is an Englishwoman, and
an extensive traveler in foreign countries)
are forcible and interesting writers. Emily
H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted
and inspirational poets of Utah. Ruby
Lamont and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson (the
doctor was educated in Cambridge Eng.)
especially bright and gifted,
	Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene
Richards are poets, and both are classed
among the spiritual and inspiring writers,
their views in all their writings being
decidedly religious. Susa Young Gates is
spoken of as a most prolific writer.
	Among the younger writers, who give
promise of future excellence, are Annie
Wells Cannon (Camilla) who has traveled
in Germany and Switzerland. She has
written graphic and realistic descriptions of
her experiences while abroad.
	Miss Josephine Spencer is a poet and
certainly excels in description; is good at
stories, and has won several prizes. Lillie
T. Freeze and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
deserve mention as treating their subjects


