GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY.
					January 1, 1902.
Beloved Sisters:
	With the dawn of this New Year’s day I
send greetings to the noble band of Relief
Society workers throughout the world. Let
us go forth at this hour with renewed
resolutions to take up the work of relief
and improvement with a strong purpose
and with even more faith and love and
unity than we have ever enjoyed.
	Let forgiveness and charity be our bond.
	Let love and cleanliness and order rule
in every home that our children may not
desire to leave the fireside for idle pleas-
ures.
	And, dear sisters, seek to bind your
society with hoops of love and union.
	Let not harsh words pass our lips, nor
yet any envious nor unkind thought enter
our hearts. Read often First Corinthians,
thirteenth chapter, that we may seek more
ardently the spirit of charity. Be prayer-
ful and seek earnestly to improve.
	Be not carried away with vain social
pleasures and the foolish fashions of the
hour.
	Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle
and womanly.
	The Prophet Joseph addressing the
sisters at the first meeting (the organiza-
tion of this society, March 17, 1842, Nau-
voo, Ill.) said: “This society of sisters
might provoke the brethren to good works
in looking to the wants of the poor, search-
ing after objects of charity, and in admin-
istering to their wants, and to assist by
strengthening the virtues of the commun-
ity.” When I heard these words from the
lips of the prophet, a little of the greatness
of the work to be done by the Relief
Society came before me, and I have never
felt to shirk the duties devolving upon me
either as a member or an officer of this
association.
	I feel that I have been blest in my labors
while ministering to the sick and unfor-
tunate and have experienced much joy in
Relief Society work, and I feel to promise
similar blessings to those who lovingly and


faithfully take up a part of this labor of
relief.
	My counselors, Sister Annie T. Hyde
and Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, join
with me in sending greetings of love and
good will and wishes for a prosperous and
successful year.
	Peace be with you. 
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
President of the Relief Society in all the
	world.
	Salt Lake City, No. 122 North West
Temple Street.


