[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the North Sanpete Stake which convened in
the Mt. Pleasant meeting house, November
23, 1901.
	Meeting opened with singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Edward Cliff. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” President W. Erickson
welcomed all to our conference. Roll call
showed forty-one visiting officers and mem-
bers.
	The first report was given by Sister
Ellen Tulgren, of Spring City. Said they
had a good set of sisters there and a good
enrollment, but a comparatively small
attendance at the meetings. Had visited
all the poor and aged sisters in the ward.
	Sister Hardy, of Moroni, took pleasure
in reporting her ward. They had interest-
ing meetings. All seemed anxious and
willing to bear their testimonies. They
had energetic teachers. Expected to be
able to build a Relief Society hall this fall
or in the spring.
	Sister Tucker, of Fairview, reported
their ward as being prosperous. Would
soon discontinue sending teachers around
for the winter.
	Sister Libbie Simonson, of Freedom,
said their organization was small, consist-
ing of only nineteen members. Owing to
the limited number it was hard work to

[Column 2]
interest them in it, but hoped to persevere
by persistent effort.
	Sister Stewart, of Milburn, said they had
suffered from floods and drought, but felt
to do the best they possibly could. Had
160 bushels of wheat and were making two
quilts. Had no very poor people in their
ward.
	Sister Hyde, of Salt Lake, brought
greetings from Sister Smith. Said she sent
them this message: “Give them my love,
and tell them to get the Spirit of the Lord
to be with them and to keep it.” Was
pleased to hear the reports. Said her
father was one of those who ordained the
officers of the first Relief Society. When
she was ordained to her present position
President Smith said he wished the Relief
Society to advance in every good thing,
but above all to keep the spirit of the
work. Every pure woman in Zion should
be enrolled in the Relief Society. The
members of the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Relief Society should mingle and visit one
another more than they do. The older
women will receive inspiration from the
brightness and vivacity of youth, while the
young women in turn will profit by the
experience of their elders. Subjects might
be taken up so that the meetings could be
made instructive and take the place of
clubs and other organizations. One sub-
ject that is of great importance is that of
training children We should seek for the
Spirit of God to assist us in this great
undertaking, that we may know the proper
way to control them We should pray
every day for grace to look inward and
purge ourselves of all evils.
	Sister Farnsworth felt this was the
greatest work we could be engaged in.
Was pleased to see so many brethren
present. Spoke of the Woman’s R. S.
Building, what an advantage it would be
in entertaining the gifted ladies of our
land, and what a benefit to the officers and
visitors from the different parts of
Zion. Said we should seek for the spirit
of the Lord to be our constant companion,
for it is impossible to raise a family proper-
ly without the aid of this.
	Sister Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by President Matson.
	Afternoon session commencd at 2 p. m.
Singing, “All is well.” Prayer by Presi-
dent C N. Lund. Singing, “O, say what
is truth.”
	Sister Morrison, of Mt. Pleasant, South
Ward, was well pleased with the attend-
ance. All the Mt. Pleasant sisters are
liberal and there is plenty in the treasury
for all the needy if used wisely. The
meetings are quite well attended.
	Candace Wilcox, of Mt. Pleasant North
Ward, said they were trying to do their
duty as they understood it. They had
many poor, but still had considerable in
the treasury.
	Sister Jakeman said she was at one time
secretary of the Relief Society of this Stake
and felt quite at home here. Had taken a
sojourn from home and had the privilege
of explaining the Gospel to many, and
they seemed much interested, especially
with the Relief Society work. Said her
testimony was stronger than it had ever
been before.
	Sister Allred thought to follow the advice
of our aged president, Sister Smith, to get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it was the
best thing we could do. If we do our
duty He will bless us.

[Column 3]
	Sister Candland was pleased to see so 
many present. Knew we would be blessed
by coming together.
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of an organiza-
tion that had been effected to commemor-
ate the early settlers of this State. They
call themselves the “Daughters of the
Pioneers.”
	Sister Hyde testified to the gift of heal-
ing manifested in behalf of her child. Said
we should lay our burdens before the
Lord and not burden one another with our
troubles.
	President Lund had been very much
edified and was thankful to the sisters for
their wonderful testimonies.
	President W. M. Ericksen made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Christian
Johansen. Conference adjourned in-
definitely.
		CARRIE L. ERICKSEN, Sec.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the South Sanpete Stake of Zion, held in
Gunnison, September 6, 1901, Presi-
dent Alvira Cox presiding. Singing,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Prayer by Bishop Madsen. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of the previous
conference read and accepted.
	The various Stakes were reported by 
each president respectively: Ephraim,
(North and South Wards) Sterling, May-
field, Centerfield, Gunnison and Fayette.
	President Alvira Cox said she felt very
much gratified at having such favorable
reports. Reminded those present of their
Stake dues. Felt that the Lord had great-
ly blessed us in answering to the various
calls that are made from time to time.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, Salt Lake City,
then addressed the conference. Said she
was much pleased in listening to the
reports just given. The Relief Society has
proven itself a valuable institution in this
Church. It is a progressive organization
and a great benefit to humanity. Dwelt
on the importance of having a General
Relief Society building. The demands
made for this purpose perhaps are not fully
understood by those living outside of Salt
Lake City. The Relief Society Central
building will reflect credit on the daughters
of Zion. Spoke of the incorrect ideas
entertained in the world concerning the
Latter-day Saints. Nevertheless the time
will come when the Latter-day Saints will
have to entertain the dignitaries of the
earth, hence the importance of having
suitable places for such purposes. Those
who contribute of their means when calls
are made from time to time will receive a
reward in a time to come, the Lord will
bless them abundantly. We must seek for 
the companionship of the Holy Spirit, that
we may be prepared to bear the trials of
life with fortitude. Spoke of the peaceful 
death of Aunt Zina. Felt that in her
departure she deeply sensed a personal loss.
She had received many encouraging words
from the departed, and those who had
received like consolation would surely
remember it forever. “Aunt Zina is not
dead, but has gone to a higher sphere. 
May we go forth from this conference
with a determination to serve God faithful-
ly, that we, too, may secure an eternal 
salvation in the world to come.
	Conference was then adjourned until 2


p. m. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction, Bishop Fjelsted.
	Afternoon, session opened by singing,
“Should, you feel inclined to censure. ”
Prayer by Sister Mary L. Peterson. Sing-
ing, “O, ye mountains high.”
	“A Word of Greeting,” by Lorenzo
Snow, was read by the secretary.
	A letter written by Sister Emmeline B.
Wells relative to the Relief Society build-
ing was ready Sister Helena Madsen,
after which Counselor Abagail Shoemaker
addressed the conference. Said that we
as members of the Relief Society should
feel determined to assist in this great work.
When the Lord blesses us with means
we should feel willing to give a portion
thereof for the establishment of righteous-
ness in the earth. Exhorted all present to
not fail in contributing to the Relief
Society fund. “Let us strive to instil
faith into the hearts of our children. If
we live lives of purity our prayers will be
answered.” Spoke of the necessity of
storing grain.
	Counselor Jane Bench felt to endorse all
that had been said. Spoke of the benefits
to be derived from attending the Relief
Society meetings. Said she felt these
conferences were productive of much good
and expressed herself as being delighted
with the contemplated Woman’s Building.
Regarded it as an individual duty to assist
in its erection. “Let us strive to do all
that we can.”
	Treasurer Mary T. Peterson hoped we
would profit by the instructions given.
“Let us feel encouraged in the project
before, us, in assisting in the erection of
the Woman’s Building. Let us consider
this a great privileg e.” Said she had
quite recently visited her native land. Felt
great sympathy for the Elders abroad
preaching the Gospel. Prayed we might
be sincere in all our undertakings.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder then addressed
the conference. “It is on account of the
mission of Joseph Smith that we have
been assembled together today.” Sister
Alder said she had just returned from a
European mission. Those inexperienced
in missionary work fail to fully comprehend
the difficulties and perplexities that
missionaries have to contend with. Not-
withstanding their trials the Spirit of God
enables the missionaries to carry on their
work successfully. The speaker had
visited three thousand homes while upon
her mission, and related some very inter-
esting and pleasing incidents connected
therewith. Outlined the p[-]oposed
Woman’s Building and said we should
endeavor to support the calls made- from
time to time, and even be willing to place
all upon the altar of sacrifice. Concluded
her remarks by bearing a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	President Alvira Cox made appropriate
closing remarks after which conference
adjourned for six months, to be held in
Manti.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Benediction by Giles Embley.
		Etta Anderson, Sec.


