EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be a National Peace Demon-
stration made by the women of all
countries in May, 1902. May Wright
Sewall is chairman in the United States.
	Monday, January 6, there was a Whitney
gathering at the residence of Horace G.
Whitney, Business Manager of the
Deseret News Company. The house was a
blaze of light, and the rooms beautifully
decorated for the occasion, which was the
birthday anniversary of the host. There
were Whitneys and Whitneys and Whit-
neys, large and small, old and young—
grandchildren and great grandchildren of
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, the founder of
the Whitney family in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake. There was feasting and
talking, instrumental music by Miss Hattie
Whitney, singing by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney and his sister, Mrs. Marian Whitney
Dinwoodey, and George D. Pyper, whose
wife is a Whitney, and a poem by Bishop
Whitney, and the party was a great suc-
cess. The brothers and sisters of H. G.
Whitney presented him with an elegant
copy of Napoleon Bonaparte in three
volumes, very handsomely illustrated, and
as he is an ardent lover of books, it was a
most appropriate gift. May the Whitneys
increase and multiply in numbers and in
strength and each one remember to honor
the name made illustrious in the history of
the Church by their honored ancestor,
Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	We are very proud to welcome among
the periodicals of Utah the Children’s
Friend, a most happy title it seems to be,
and may the venture be a successful one for
the Primary Association. The table of
contents gives good promise of its useful-
ness among the little people and those who
have charge of them. The “Greeting”
from the president of the General Board,
Louie B. Felt, is full of deep love and
humble appreciation of her high position
and its great responsibilities, and it breathes
the true spirit of devotion and helpfulness.
“Suggestions to Officers” contains many
lessons that if carefully studied, followed
and applied will be of great benefit in the
daily labors of those who desire to make
themselves competent teachers in this work
of love among the children. Lula’s poem
is very sweet and full of love, and alto-
gether the new magazine is in the spirit of
the Primary work and makes one think
of the Savior’s words, “Except ye become
as one of these, ye cannot enter the king-
dom of heaven.” These dear sisters whose
work is among the little children will have
the opportunity of growing into that per-
fect love the Savior laid down as the
golden rule of life. The lessons all seem
to have been carefully arranged and with
such a complete guide, surely the associa-
tions will work in perfect harmony. The
Children’s Friend should assuredly be taken
in every home of the Latter-day Saints.


