[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR, 1902.
	A Happy New Year to all our readers,
patrons and friends, and may it prove a
more prosperous one to our dear little
EXPONENT, financially and otherwise.
Great advancement is being made in many
directions and along many lines of pro-
gress, and the sisters of the Relief
Society who expect official information
and instruction through the EXPONENT,
should make a diligent effort to extend its
circulation more widely than hitherto.
	The year nineteen hundred and two has
been ushered in with every indication
of prosperity and the people have every
blessing needful for their comfort and sus-
tenance in this goodly land. The Latter-
day Saints are in the enjoyment of so
many things to be thankful for—among
others peace, freedom from oppression,
and opportunity of spreading the Gospel
of light and truth for the salvation of the
living and the redemption of the dead.
There is much to be grateful for and the
Lord is multiplying His blessings from
day to day and from time to time
Throughout the United States conditions
are changing for the better, and especially
is this the case in regard to the woman ques-
tion; to be sure the world over, much has
been effected during the last few years. It
began in America and has been carried to
many countries. In Washington, D. C, at
the Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
which will open February 12 many coun-
tries will be represented by delegates and
speakers. In fact it will be international
in its nature. The pioneer workers in the
movement and some of the greatest women
in the world will be gathered there on that
auspicious occasion, to tell what has been
accomplished, and the outlook for the
future.
	The four Western states that have suc-
ceeded in obtaining equal suffrage will
send delegations undoubtedly, and assured-
ly the Utah representatives will be on
hand to report the good work and the bene-
fits of the law that gives woman so many
privileges in her own right.
	In Germany particularly, according to
the press reports of the International
Council of women, the woman question
has made great progress. In that country
“there are between the ages of 17 and 50
4,000,000 spinsters; 40 per cent of all the

[Column 2]
women in Germany are unmarried, and a
large proportion of these must earn their
bread. In the past they have lacked
education and industrial training, but
now they have both, in a measure. There
are now industrial schools for women in
all the large towns of Germany, many of
them receiving municipal aid and some
of them notably in Berlin, entirely sup-
ported by the city.”
	The practical reforms in many things
and in many ways that have been brought
about directly or indirectly through the
woman movement would fill a volume
were they enumerated—they (the women)
have not exactly “turned the world up-
side down,” as great and wise men pre-
dicted they would, when first the move-
ment began, but they have made many
wonderful changes. And certainly some
of the greatest and best men have since
been willing to admit, that it has been
vastly for the improvement of the world at
large, as well as the individual.
	Here in our beautiful mountain retreat
away from much of the turmoil and strife
of the outside world, the people enjoy
many sacred privileges that perchance
some hold lightly, because they are every-
day affairs, and they know little by con-
trast; but those who have passed through
the persecutions, drivings and mobbings,
certainly know how to fully appreciate the
days in which we live at the present time,
and their testimony and experience during
the bitter trials of earlier years in the his-
tory of the Church should make an im-
pression upon the younger generation that
ought to inspire them with reverence for
these veterans of battles for the truth, who
fought the good fight with humility for their
armor, and the sword of truth for their
defence; and it should prove to them that
the Lord is able and willing to deliver His
people and to lead them to victory in His
own way and time. The pioneers who
sought out this resting place were not only
great in pioneering and colonizing, but
they were also in the best and truest
sense pioneers for the establishment of
truth upon the earth; the builders of
Temples and sanctuaries in which to wor-
ship God, as well as homes for a people
who had been obliged to go beyond the
borders of civilization Truly enough
history repeats itself, for these stalwart
leaders of the great exodus were the des-
cendants of the pilgrims who fled from
their native land and crossed the mighty
ocean to seek an asylum and refuge where
they might worship God according to the
dictates of their own consciences.
	And now the children and grandchil-
dren of the Utah pioneers are in posses-
sion of the fullest freedom and liberty ever
enjoyed by any body of people, and let us
hope and pray that they may hold it so
sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and
truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed
to them from the fathers who have passed
to the great beyond into the spirit world,
and never let the power of mammon and
of unrighteousness make them false to the
integrity and trust they are so proud of as
their rightful inheritance.
	The young people of this new state
should also be proud of the honor of state-
hood and stand for all that is best and
highest in government for all the people of
the state and for the United States; the free
Republic is also growing and expanding,
lengthening its borders gnd strengthening


other countries, and the freedom vouch
safed to this nation, is a heritage bestowed
by the men who fought for liberty and
were inspired to frame the Constitution of
these United States, and the Declaration
of Rights, so wisely constructed. Every
one who desires the highest good of the
country has abundant scope in this free
land to exercise his best gifts for the good
of all.


