NEW YEAR TRIBUTES.

My Sister Nancy: This bright New Year’s morn,
Thy cherished memory I will adorn
With sweet “For-get-me-nots.” For at the time
When earth life ceased for thee, and life sublime,
In the fair spirit land before thee ope’d,
I was not near thee, as we both had hoped;
But far away; no token I bestowed,
And all these weeks and months this debt have owed.

In fragrant June of Nineteen hundred one
Thy earthly record closed, thy work was done;
Well hadst thou earned thy passport and release,
And in thy new promotion rest and peace!
I owe thee much of tenderness and love;
No gentler spirit in that home above,
Among the just made perfect will be known,
And Father understandeth well his own.

His faithful, loving, true and loyal child,
Who lived the pure religion undefiled.
How often is the spirit hampered here,
With hurtful things which hold, and interfere
With best progression; but henceforth, for thee,
I feel there is no clog, thy course is free;
And truest peace and rest for thy rich mind,
Must needs be usefulness of noblest kind

My dear, sweet sister! may thy labors be
Such as permit thee oft to think of me,
And as my mind goes out to thee, perforce,
In spirit may we hold blest intercourse;
Live o’er again bright hours of guileless youth;
Reach forward, grasping new, enliv’ning truth,
Praise God and bless Him for the gift of tho’t;
And parting, breathe again, “For-get-me-not!”

EVA.

A lover of beauty and truth wast thou,
Of children and sunshine, books and flowers;
	And pleasant it is to consider now,
	The restful smile on thy lip and brow,
How passeth thy peaceful, heavenly hours.
	This New Year’s morn, Nineteen hundred two,
	By thy mother’s grave finds thine own made new.

And together ye work in that sacred place,
Where only the pure and good may appear;
	The glory of love lighteth either face—
	And how many will greet thee with glad embrace,
For whom thou hast worked in the Temples here!
	Grand was thy mission upon this earth,
	Enriched with gems of the highest worth.

Thy father, brothers and sisters all,
Have thy loving words and deeds rehearsed;
	And He who marketh the sparrows’ fall,
	Hath kindly granted thy mother’s call,
That thou, of her daughters, shouldst join her first.
	Oh, visit us oft, in this world of strife,
	With visions or dreams of thy new, bright life!

Thy soul’s companion remaining still,
Calmly resigned to thy summons hence,
	Waiteth to finish the Father’s will—
	But, oh, what joy will your beings thrill,
In the resurrection’s sweet recompense;
	When spirit and body again nnite,
	In fullness of glory and love and light!
