[Column 1]
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of tke organization of
	the General Presidency of the Relief
	Society.
	To the officers and members of the
several Stakes and branches of the Relief
Society in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Our Father in heaven, who doeth all
things well, has seen fit to call home to a
better world our beloved and revered presi-
dent, Sister Zina D. H. Young, after a
long life of active usefulness, and blessed
ministrations in the spirit of the Gospel,
and the calling assigned her by the Priest-
hood of the Church. of which she was a
faithful member. She passed peacefully
away August 28, 1901, beloved by all who
knew her, and many thousands bless and
honor her memory. “Blessed are the dead
which die in the Lord from henceforth.
Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest
from their labors: and their works do follow
them.”
	On Tuesday, October 31, 1901, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was elected to fill the
vacancy caused by the demise of the late
president, Sister Young, and at the special
conference of the Church, Sunday, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, Sister Smith was sustained as
president of the Relief Society in all the
world. Her counselors, who had been
previously chosen were also sustained;
they are Sister Annie Taylor Hyde and
Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, also Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, and Sister
Clarissa Smith Williams, treasurer. These
are the general officers that were sustained
at the special conference by vote of all the
quorums of the Priesthood, and the mem-
bers of the Church who were present on
that memorable occasion.
	We unitedly join with our sisters and co-
laborers here in Zion and abroad in all
parts of the world in gratitude to our
Father in heaven for His innumerable
blessings, that have been manifest ever
since the society was first organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842, now nearly sixty years
ago; and we humbly beseech the blessings
and guidance of our heavenly Father, to
direct all our future efforts, and pray that
the Holy Spirit may be with those who
labor in any capacity therein, and bless
their ministrations however lowly their
calling may be
	We have not taken these responsibilities

[Column 2]
upon ourselves, but have been called in
the order of the holy Priesthood, and we
humbly desire to magnify the callings
given to us of the Lord, and in order to do so
acceptably, we shall need the faith and sup-
port of the First Presidency of the Church,
the Apostles, presidents of Stakes and Bish-
ops, whom we ever feel to uphold, and with
whom we desire to work in harmony, and
to merit at all times their confidence and
blessing.
	Signed,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
General President.
ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
First Counselor.
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
Second Counselor.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
General Secretary.
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS,
General Treasurer.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1901.


