[Column 1]
extremely well. Mary A. Freeze and Lucy
A. Clark have both written poems of merit
and are good descriptive writers, also lofty
and religious. Julia I. McDonald is an
unusually genial writer, and much is ex
pected of her in the future. Flora L. Shipp
is gifted as an imaginative writer. Sarah
E. Russell has contributed largely to our
home magizines. Mary Ellen Kimball,
Wilmerth East and Mary A. House are
logical, religious and patriotic writers.
	There are many others, who cannot be
mentioned in this short article, but we
must mention Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who
writes not only scientific articles, but those
that require comprehensive thought.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, B. S., is a
gifted Utah writer, especially in lofty
themes, as well as happy in description.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman has worked at type-
setting, publishing and writing articles on
almost all subjects. She is a correspondent
for papers and magazines in Salt Lake as
well as Eastern and Western papers.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodman-
see, Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp,
Emma Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel
Sears, Sophy Valentine, Aretta Young,
Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow, Mary
A. Farnsworth and Zina S. Whitney rep-
resent a large number of young women of
whom much is expected in the future.
	The outlook for literary work among
women is encouraging, and it is thought
that the West will be equal with, if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment towards the higher education and
development of mankind.
	At the meeting held November 29, Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson were admitted to the club as
members. 
	At the meeting held March 16, 1894, Mrs.
H. A. Badger, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Miss
Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss Olea
Shipp, of Salt Lake, and Mrs. Fannie
Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, were voted in
as members.
	At the April meeting the name of Mrs.
A. E. Bennion appears, she having given
a lecture on the “Will.”
	The June meeting was by vote, with the
exception of the musical selection, turned
into an informal reception to the Countess
Wachmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts, who
accompanied her, the ladies desiring an
address from the guest of the evening.
	The Countess preferred the members to
ask questions so that she might give the
information thus elicited. She was very
obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly.
	Several of the ladies availed themselves
of this opportunity to learn something of a
religion comparatively new in the West,
but old as heathen philosophy in the East.
	“Theosophy,” the countess said, “is a
grand brotherhood; all religions contain
some of its principles It has no organiza-
tion.”
	At the July meeting Mesdames J. B.
Lawler, Isabella Cameron Brown, Emma

[Column 2]
Holling and Laura Hyde were received as
members. A letter was read from Nevada
V. Davis, a member who is now in the
East, engaged on the New York Herald.
	At the Annual meeting this year the
ladies impersonated famous people of the
past, either writers or characters. On
motion of Miss Ada Patterson Mrs. E. B.
Wells was made Honorary President of
the club for life. Carried.
	At the December meeting Hon. Phoebe
Cousins, of St. Louis, gave a very interest-
ing lecture on Woman’s Rights, also spoke
on the late silver trouble in Colorado.
	At the January meeting, 1895, the Con-
stitution and by-laws were read by the
secretary. Then each by-law was read
separately. A few changes were made,
but practically they remained as before.
Hattie B. Harker and Rebecca H. Doolan
were received as members.
	At the March meeting, by previous
arrangement, both the U. W. P. C. and
the Reapers’ club met at the residence of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, to greet Mrs. Wells on
her return from the Council of Women,
also Dr. E. R. Shipp, who accompanied
her. The Council was held in Washing-
ton, D. C., Utah had been well rep-
presented. A paper on the Sixth Sense,
by Sarah M. Kimball had been read, also
one on “Heredity,” by Dr. Shipp, and
“Forty Years in the Valiev of the Salt
Lake,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the April meeting the two clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs.
There were present Mrs. Corinne Allen,
president; Mrs. McVicker, secretary; Mrs.
Georgie Webber, treasurer; Mrs Ferdinand
Fabian and Miss Mary Teasdale.
	Mrs. H. S. Young, who had proffered
the use of her home, was a very entertain-
ing hostess. The affair was in every way
a pleasant one and the evening was
agreeably spent.
	Mrs. Lizzie Stevenson Wilcox was
selected from the Press Club and gave
“Women in Journalism,” at the annual
meeting of the Federation of Clubs held in
Ogden, May 28.
	The question of a double money stand-
ard for America was taken up and dis-
cussed. In the debate the affirmative won.
	The November meeting, after a short
program had been rendered, was, by sus-
pension of the rules, turned into a reception
to the Misses Chase of Boston, who were
present on the occasion. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells made speeches
of welcome, and the guests of honor spoke
at some length upon their travels through
the old and new world, from the snowy
Alps to the orange groves of California
from the plains of California to the vol-
canoes of Honolulu, depicting many
interesting things and sights in eloquent
language, then paying a glowing tribute to
glories of Salt Lake valley, with its charm-
ing sunsets and snow-capped mountains,
equal, they said, to the grandeur of the
Alps.
			(Continued.)


