A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
PHEBE C. YOUNG.
	The long shadows of the dying year are
falling over the world. The beautiful
green leaves of summer, now sere and
dead, rustle on the ground. Piercing north
winds blow them about as worthless things.
In heaps they lie down in the furrows
under the moss. They cling around the
roots of brush and tree to check their
drifting, or they are trodden under the
foot of men.
	The grim Reaper, too gathers his harvest.
Away in the earth reverently the dead part
is laid. But by the decree of God, the
spirit ascends to worlds on high.
	What a glorious change, from ice, cold
and snow, to a Summer Land! There
flowers of gorgeous hue are playing in the
warm south wind Wide spreading trees
are clothed with foliage of daintiest green
and the grass is thick like velvet to step
upon.
	Thoughts like these fill the mind, as we
stand by the bier of one whose memory is
precious, and whose virtues we would
emulate. She has joined the innumerable
host, who, one by one, gather on the other
shore
	Surrounded by loved ministering angels,
the frail moorings of life were loosened.
With a sigh her spirit was borne away,
leaving the worn out tenement to moulder
to dust. There will be a vacant chair, and
the loss of a tender mother’s loving hand.
But love remains; it is indestructible, and
like sweet incense will ever twine around
her memory.
	Her beautiful, spiritual mind, untram-
meled now by blight of time or cares of
earth, will be inspired by the glory of the
eternal world. Her aspirations for pro-
gression and development, so longed for
here, will find full fruition.
	As a wife and mother she was an ex-
ample of loving solicitude and consistent
piety. Through affliction’s vale she walked
with trembling step, but no murmuring
word. In Trial’s fiery furnace her nature
was refined, and thus she came in closer
communion with the Eternal One. Her
days of loneliness, their depth known only
to God, are over. She is reunited with
the treasures she laid on the altar, and
whose loss made the world a barren wilder-
ness. How bravely she gathered up the
broken threads of life, learning to live
without them, she alone knows.
	She was faithful in every calling of life;
every duty was conscientiously performed.
By her friends and associates of the Press
Club her memory is revered She was a
valued member, and graced the various
positions she vas called upon to fill. Re-


liable when a task was assigned her, she
honorably performed it, gave it her best
efforts.
	From her pen flowed thoughts that were
fathomed out of the well of eternal truth;
and whether in prose or verse, bore the
impress of a superior mind.
	Yet she was so unassuming ! By the
thoughtless she was not noticed, but to those
not captivated by the shining, shallow
sands of life, she was a kindred spirit,
whom to know was to love, and to love
was to revere. The first year of the new
century brought her release, and the year
of Jubilee.
	The shadows of the old year grow longer
on her grave. On the hillside the winter
winds sing her requiem.
	The year and herself have performed
well their missions, and it is well they
should rest from their labors.
	It will only be a little season for her
then the trump of God will sound, and the
dead in the Lord will rise and behold him,
surrounded by countless concourses of
Saints and angels. Then He will make up
His jewels, and they will be like unto her,
clothed in robes of righteousness and wear-
ing the victor’s crown.

Only a little rest, where mountain breezes sigh;
Only a little rest the years are passing by;
Watch and wait, ye loved ones, count well the passing
	years.
Hear again her counsels, heed not your falling tears.

Know that the way of life is through the vale of Death,
That lasting joy is found, through the last failing breath;
Be as true and faithful, as all who enter there,
Her treasures ye are still, and will her glory share.

’Tis not good bye forever—bless the Gospel sound,
Life and immortality in that world abound.
There the ransomed of all ages, joyous will meet,
Sing the song Triumphant, and their Redeemer greet.

’Tis life beyond the river, on the shining shore,
Love of Christ the giver, a fullness evermore.
Then on the hillside rest ’mong the countless dead,
Where breezes sigh in Summer, while stars gleam over-
	head.
