LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 9. Nervous and Mental Hygiene in Children.
(Based on Chapter X. The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
The last lesson?The Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development?will have convinced the reader of the general importance of mental hygiene in the life of the child. The mental hygiene movement is one of the most recent and in many ways the most important developments in the fields of psychology and education during the past twenty years. Dr. William A. White, the author of this well-written chapter, is one of the outstanding mental hygienists (sometimes called psychiatrists) in America. He is at present superintendent of the government hospital for the insane at Washington, D. C.
A. Some Principles of Mental Hygiene
Perhaps the best way to get the "meat" out of the present lesson is for the reader (and class-leader too) to select from Dr. White's chapter principles such as the following:
"Children are not just small adults." (p. 195.) "Then again, the child is not an isolated being." (p. 195.) "The whole developmental period of childhood has these two aims: the maximum unfoldment of the individual possibilities consistent with the necessary degrees of conformity to social standards." (p. 196.) "Strength of character, just like muscular strength, is developed by overcoming difficulties, not by following the path of least resistance." (p. 198.) "The impetus and initiative must come from within the child * * *" (p. 200.) "Every exaggerated character trait is evidence of an unbalanced personality make-up and is evidence also of the existence of the opposite trait." (p. 201.)
To Dr. White's excellent list of mental hygiene principles, we add a few of our own, as follows:
1. Most mental handicaps are preventable.
2. Activity is the normal characteristic of childhood; physical and mental inactivity are pathological.
3. The differences between personalities are so great as to make it dangerous to prescribe the same treatment for all individuals.
4. Mental poise is facilitated by an alternating program of work, rest, and play.
5. Almost all persons have some degree of inferiority-feeling. Compensations for actual or imagined inferiority are quite
normal. The problem of child guidance is therefore one of facilitating appropriate compensations.
6. Every child and grown-up person should experience success or superiority in some field or situation, with sufficient frequency to prevent the development of an inferiority-complex.
7. All children and grown-ups normally demand a confidante, i. e., some understanding person who will listen without moralizing.
8. Energies, impulses, etc., cannot be suppressed. They may, however, be sublimated, i. e., guided to expression on higher planes.
9. Many personality problems are overcome when the handicapped person is able, through the assistance of others, to objectify his own problems, i. e., to analyze his own difficulty as though it were the problem of another.
10. Punishment is a dubious method of dealing with children's conduct problems. The following suggestions of Felix Adler are well worth contemplating in this connection:
a. Never punish in anger. b. Distinguish between the child and the fault. c. Do not "lecture" children. d. Do not threaten them. e. While insisting upon obedience, demand nothing which is unreasonable. f. Do not employ corporal punishment; it tends to brutalize the child, to break his spirit, and to weaken his sense of shame.
QUESTIONS
1. Why is mental health more important than physical health?
2. How do you explain the increasing interest in mental hygiene?
3. What does Dr. White mean by the phrase (p. 197) "reality may be overwhelming?"
4. What is a feeling of inferiority? What are its causes? What types of inferiority feeling (popularly called "complexes") have you observed in children and adults? How should a child with an inferiority feeling be dealt with in his home and in the school?
5. How are "phantasy" related to inferiority feelings?
6. Is wholesome personality in a child as important as his mastery of the three R's? Then why do we fail to emphasize and train for it in our schools?
B. A Good Book for Parents
There has been so much written on mental hygiene that is either over-technical or unsound that we are giving a short review of "incorrigibility" and "bad habits"

or synopsis of a recent book which we can safely recommend for further reading by the parent with an especially difficult problem-child. The book is written by Dr. Erwin Wexberg, and is called Your Nervous Child: A Guide for Parents and Teachers (New York: Albert & Charles Boni, 178 pp., $1.75.)
Dr. Wexberg speaks as a physician. He had a wide experience with children's cases in Vienna, where he was associated with the famous Dr. Alfred Adler. The book comprises three well-rounded chapters on the symptoms, causes, and treatment of nervousness in children. While the manifestations of nervousness may take the form of disturbances of nutrition and urination, night terrors, stuttering, masturbation, lying, etc., the basic condition is that of "a child who has lost courage to fight his way through, or is struggling along the wrong road."
Chief among the causes of nervousness in children, Wexberg lists: The Feeling of Inferiority, The Fatherless Boy, The Youngest Child, The Only Child, Sex, The Spoiled Child, Egoism of Parents, Vain Mothers. With almost uncanny insight he explains how bodily infirmities (such as hare-lip, prominent ears, protracted sickliness) strengthen the feeling of inferiority and cause the child to be nervous. It is not too much to say that the author's discussion of sex as a cause of nervousness and psychic homo-sexuality, is the best and most straight-forward thing anywhere in print accessible to the layman.
The chief prophylaxis and cure for nervousness in children (except, of course, where it is due to organic causes) Wexberg insists is "correct" education, the task of which is "to do everything that can help a child become an independent and courageous man * * * ready and prepared to adapt himself to the community to which he belongs, and to render his best service where he has chosen to serve." Independence and courage are the keynotes of this "correct" education. The author is averse to marks and reports, yet he would "blame mildly and praise in a friendly fashion." He adduces new arguments against all forms of punishment and shows the futility of moralizing. He concludes his effective plea for freedom and the early psychological weaning of the child with the rather startling statement that "children should be treated as adults, not as children."
There is only one important point upon which we differ with Dr. Wexberg and that is in regard to his assumption that only the physician is competent to deal with these common (functional) forms of nervousness in children. If parents and teachers cannot sooner or later learn to deal with most of these difficulties themselves, then progress under our system of family life is impossible. Such intelligent understanding of these matters on the part of the average parent, is, after all, the real reason for the parental movement.