[Vol15 | October 1928 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: One of Japan's Beauty Spots]

One of Japan's Beauty Spots
By F. S. Harris, President of Brigham Young University

Japan has so many places of beauty and charm that it seems a little presumptuous to single out any of these and say that they are more beautifil than the others. However, someone has been bold enough to select three sections which are designated as Japan's scenic trio. There is Matsushima on the northeastern coast, Amanohashi Tate on the west coast, and Miyajima on the south along the Inland Sea. It is to the latter that I should like to take you.

Traveling westward from the great cities of Osaka and Kobe which are at the east end of the Inland Sea we pass for several hours along the coast through wonderful fields of rice interspersed with patches of soy beans and little clumps of dwarf mulberries, the leaves of which are used as food for silk worms. There are some other crops, but rice paddies occupy most of the farm land. These rice fields are covered with water which comes from the numberless clear streams as they descend from the heavily timbered hills and mountains to the north. We might pause and note the many points of interest on these small farms and the activities of the entire family who are helping to get a living from the land. We would be interested in the straw-roofed houses, in the fantastic scare crows or the bells constantly being rung by water wheels to keep the birds out of the ripening rice, or in the dress of the people. But we must get on to our destination.

On leaving the train we are tempted to loiter in the small town to explore curious shops and watch the activities of the interesting people. We resist, and pass on to the ferry landing two blocks away. Here we find a motor boat ready to take us to the island which is the real spot of beauty and the location of the famous Itsukushima Shrine. As the boat moves through the clear water of the Inland Sea, we are surprised to see millions of jelly fishes floating lazily about. Schools of fishes of various kinds dart across our path and we understand how the hundreds of fishing-boats with picturesque sails which are within our view on the sea are able to find profit in catching fish. As our boat takes us near the island, we are charmed by the beautiful pines, gnarled and twisted, which project out over the water. The island is in reality a mountain heavily timbered and containing many shady glens and crystalline streams which tumble down over the granite rocks to the Inland Sea which surrounds it.

On landing, we are met by a group of energetic hotel porters, who separate our baggage into as many parcels as possible so that more of them can do something to call for a tip. Besides those who carry baggage there is a guide who leads along the trail to the hotel which nestles among the pines in the background. Since we come at a season when there are not many travelers, the hotel is almost empty, and as a result the entire force of domestics swarm around us. We do not mind having service, but there is a limit of tips we are willing to pay.

After being settled in the hotel, we are anxious to see more of the beauties of which we have had a glimpse. Miyajima has so many little nooks that are beautiful and so many enchanting spots that we do not know which way to turn. We feel a good deal like the boy at his first three-ringed circus. He tried to look at all three rings at once and got very much confused. The giant torii out in the water and the sacred deer which are along the water's edge and in the various paths, the great old Buddhist temple, the sacred horse, the graceful boats in the bay, the interesting little Japanese women with bright colored dresses and beautiful parasols, the old gnarled pine trees with props holding up their tired, outstretched limbs, the ancient bronze statues, all vie with one another to get our attention. We decide, however, that the only way to see these things is to take them one at a time.

Accordingly, we enter the famous Itsukushima Shrine. It is supposed to have been established in the year 593, A. D. In 1146 the temples were extended and enlarged and the beauty of the buildings increased. In 1270 many of the buildings were destroyed by fire but were rebuilt soon after. The structures of the shrine are said to represent one of the rarest types of architecture known to the world. The shrine is built over the sea and is connected with the land by winding corridors of bridges between which are many halls. The architectural design, indeed, is said by the Japanese to be a heaven-imagined fantasy. The impression is enhanced by the sight of the blue water of the sea in front, the green mountains behind, and the colorful vermillions with which the structures themselves are painted, the ensemble forming a striking combination of views. The charm of the place is enhanced by the beautiful, spotted deer which one sees moving about under the building and around through various parts of the structure. In one of the main buildings, there is the senjokakau, or "the house of a thousand lamps." This huge hall was constructed in 1582, A. D. Near it is a five storied pagoda. A number of historical documents are kept in the archives of the shrine, among which thirty-three rolls of Buddha scripture, or sutra, dedicated to the shrine by the Taria family, stand out conspicuously. In a little room on one side of the shrine is the sacred horse. It looks a good deal like one of our western ponies. It is supposed to be pure white, although in reality it is no whiter than a good many horses we see about the country. It spends all its life in this little enclosure, and is fed grain by people who pass. With coppers they purchase little packages of oats which contain only a few thimbles full of the grain, which they throw into a stone trough. The horse seems very restless, and stamps around a good deal. It was rather difficult for me to make up my mind that it should not be out in the open country enjoying a good run rather than being confined in its "sacred" home.

The hundreds of stone lanterns which line the thoroughfares have a religious significance; the bronze images of the gods and demons which one sees by the way all have a connection with the worship of the people. A climb up a trail through the dense timber to the mountain top where one can overlook the entire country, a boat-ride around the island which is about five miles in circumference, helped to complete our idea of this wonderful beauty spot. It seems impossible in words to describe the charm of the place. High rainfall has made a very luxuriant vegetation; this, with the granite rock which preserves the water in its clear condition, insures many beautiful crystalline streams, small waterfalls, and a freshness to the whole place which makes a person understand why it should have been selected so long ago as a place in which to build a temple.

The combination of verdure-clad sea shores, of sparkling streams, of little nooks filled with attractive buildings, and the interesting people having charming ways, all make up a setting that is most impressive. After visiting this beauty spot, a person cannot help but feel impressed with the fact that we, in our own land, have many opportunities to take advantage of what Nature has done for us, and ourselves build up many attractive places that would add interest to our lives and give a more favorable impression to all those who pass our way.
