[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. ANNUAL REPORTS It is hoped that the ward secretaries and treasurers have kept all books up to date, transferring monthly accounts to the general summary regularly at the end of each month. If the books have been kept according to instructions the yearly reports are already virtually compiled. The reports last year were a source of joy and satisfaction. Too much cannot be said in praise of them. Blank stake and ward report forms will be sent from the General Office the middle of November with the request that reports be sent in early in January. Much depends upon ward secretaries in this matter. It is impossible for the stake secretary to get her report compiled and in the General Office at the appointed time if the ward secretaries delay their part of the work and do not get the ward reports in the hands of the stake secretary on time. In many instances last year stake reports were delayed for many days, and in a few instances for several weeks, because some ward secretaries did not understand the importance of doing their work promptly and early. One ward secretary in 'delaying her work delays not only the report of her own stake, but also the General Report of the whole Society. It should, therefore, be a matter of serious duty as well as a matter of personal pride to each ward secretary to see that her part of this important work is attended to promptly. Northern States Mission. Council Bluffs Relief Society recently held a bazaar for the purpose of raising a wheat fund. The missionaries of the West Iowa Conference supported them and assisted them in their undertaking. As a result $100 was raised above all expenses. South Sanpete Stake. Mrs. Eliza R. Bartholomew, president of the Fayette ward Relief to be a Society, worker has resigned in the Manti her temple. position, She as has she been has been called a devoted Relief Society worker for 58 years. Mrs. Bartholomew is the mother of eleven children. North Weber Stake. The North Weber stake Relief Society distributed throughout the stake 3,240 quart fruit jars which will be filled with vegetables 
 and fruit by the close of September. This stake also has an abundance of dried fruit, -dried corn and beans. In Memoriam. Mrs. Susanna Richardson of the Plain City Relief Society passed away in July. She had been a member of the Plain City Relief Society for 22 years, and was the secretary for eight years. She was born and reared in Switzerland where she received her education, and she later became a very successful teacher of French and German. Before settling in America she travelled very extensively. Mrs. Richardson was a tower of strength in her Society because of her faithfulness, energy, and her intellectual capabilities. . Alberta Stake. Mrs. Emily Hopewell of Cardston, Alberta, Canada, since the war began, has knitted 90 pairs of socks for the Canadian soldiers. Mrs. Hopewell is 59 years of age. Ogden Stake. Under the direction of the Stake Board demonstrations were given Thursday of each week in August, in the canning of fruits and vegetables, at the Weber Academy, by Mrs. Lydia M. Tanner. The Stake Board and representatives from the Relief Society of the city wards attended each week and the following is the result of their labor: Fresh apricots, bottled 109 quarts Apricot jam, bottled 96 quarts Apricot butter, bottled 86 quarts Fresh apples, bottled 27 quarts Apple butter, bottled 17 quarts Cherries, bottled 24 quarts Beets, bottled 46 quarts Corn, bottled 36 quarts Beans, bottled 105 quarts Total 546 quarts Jelly 75 glasses Apricots, dried 41 pounds Corn, dried 46 pounds In addition to this, 51 bushels of peaches were picked and distributed to those in need of them. The Stake Board consists of nine members. Among these members we have the following report: Number of enlarged gardens 4 Number of new gardens 7 Number of vacant lots utilized 3 Number of members storing eggs 4 Number of eggs stored 70 doz. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 641 The ward members are also accomplishing remarkable results along these same lines. The Ogden stake Relief Society shipped in June to the Red Cross headquarters in Denver, a box of articles which were made by their members, the material of which was furnished by the Society. The articles included: 43 pajama suits, 37 bed shirts, 26 bath robes and 60 pairs of socks. Cassia Stake. One of the members of the Buhl Relief Society, who had an abundance of fruit, offered it to the ward Relief Society for the picking'. The members went in a body to the orchard, picked the fruit, canned part of it, and prepared the rest for drying. The women took their picnic and made a gala day of the occasion. Each member of the Cassia Stake Relief Society is donating one jar of fruit for a reserve supply. Ten of the ward Relief Societies of this stake planted potatoes in the spring' and expect to reap a good crop. In this stake, officers' meetings for the Stake Board are held weekly, while stake and local meetings are held once a month. Utah Stake. From Utah Stake we learn that 1,435 quarts of fruit and 475 quarts of beans have been canned at the Relief Society canning center. Several local companies as well as individuals gave generous assistance to the work. One of the members of the Stake Board donated the price of 2 pressure cookers. Another donated 3 sacks of sugar, and still another donated 16 dozen fruit jars. The gas company donated 3 jet gas plates; members of the Board donated utensils for working; the stake gave the use of the store house, the basement of which is used for canning and the attic for drying purposes; the Electric Company paid the expenses of 13 demonstrations and hired a demonstrator; the lumber companies of the city donated trays for drying; the packing houses are sending to the center their surplus fruit. The Boyer Canning Co., of Springville, has canned, free of charge, for the wards surrounding the cannery, both vegetables and fruit. Tintic Stake. Demonstrations in canning food have been held in each of the wards of the Tintic stake, and as a result two pressure cookers have been purchased and the women have been stimulated to greater activity in food preservation. As a means of raising funds to assist with the general work the stake Board gave a party on the night of the 24th of July at Eureka when they cleared $141.20.