[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Making a Husband Out of a Man Helen Rowland]

Making a Husband out of a Man. We reproduce the following witty and excellent advice from the May number of The Vogue. Making a living, making a career, making a fortune, or making fame is not the forte of a woman; it is making a husband out of a mere man. By Helen Roseland. ARE YOU GETTING MARRIED THIS SEASON? If so, this is the most vital hour of your life. It is the rosy hour "before taking," in which a foolish virgin has nothing on her mind but her wedding-veil, and when nothing seems to stand between her and heaven but a vast wedding-bell of marguerites and a black-and-white robed clergyman, with a prayer book in his hands. But it is also the magic hour in which a wise virgin sorrowfully takes her last look at her lover, and prayerfully prepares for the stupendous life work of turning him into a husband. WHAT A YOUNG BRIDE SHOULD KNOW. For husbands are made, not born; and the Lord seems to have sent Eve into the world for the divinely appointed task of putting the finishing touches on Adam. If you fancy that the clergyman is a necromancer, who can murmur a few mysterious words over a wild bachelor, slip the bridle over his neck, and thereby transform him into a tame domesticated creature, warranted to trot peacefully along in double-harness, you are going to meet with some startling surprises. More, you are deliberately placing your happiness on the bumpy end of a see-saw. It is a wise bride who takes herself aside, before the wedding-day, and calmly and solemnly asks herself: "Could I love him, though he lost his front hair and insisted on eating with a knife? "Could I trust him, even though I knew he were lying? "Am I prepared to be a mother, a guardian, a backbone, and a rib to him  and at the same time to permit him to treat me like a kitten? "Am I reconciled to giving up my family, my privacy, my preferences, nine out of ten of my opinions, and every vestige of my individuality'  except my tooth-brush?" If you fail to ask yourself all this, you are practically setting sail on the sea of matrimony in a gasoline launch. Of course, if you are a prospective bride, you have sweetly affirmed to him, and to all whom it may not concern, that, in your opinion, "marriage is a woman's life work." Every girl^ goes about expounding this exalted sentiment to her unengaged friends, 
 at least once in a lifetime. It is such a gentle way of rubbing salt into their vanity. But don't, even subconsciously, delude yourself with the rosy hope that the "work" will end at the altar; or that the recipe for making a success of marriage goes no farther than the primary injunction. "First catch your husband." A fianc is just raw material. Man, in his crude, unrefined, bachelor state, is nothing but clay  just a lump of uniform clay. And making a husband out of a mere man is one of the highest plastic arts known to civilization. In short, wifehood should be classed high among the "arts and crafts," considering how much art it takes to get a husband, and how much craft it takes to hold him. THE MARTYRDOM OF MAN. But do not infer from all this that you are going to be the only self-constructed martyr on the matrimonial altar. In these days, when an ordinary human man asks an ordinary human girl to be his wife, she ought to go humbly down on her knees and thank heaven, not only because marrying men are becoming rarer than the well-known day in June, and proposals as scarce as solid mahogany or genuine Chippendale, but because she has had a revelation of human unselfishness which stands without a rival as the Eighth Wonder of the World. From his point of view, he is staking his immortal soul on a long chance. He has everything to lose, and nothing to gain  except the girl. He is deliberately giving up his care-free existence, two-thirds of his income, most of his pet habits, all of his playmates, and the devoted attentions of all other women  for the possible inattention of one. He is taking off his shield, his buckler, and his halo, and calmly handing them over in exchange for a promise that he will be loved, honored, and obeyed  whenever it's convenient. The love of a woman who marries for love alone may be unselfish; but the love of a man who marries for love alone must be unselfish. And some dark, dismal morning, when the milliner's bill has just arrived, and steel has dropped thirty points, and the only woman he has ever married is weeping her nose pink because she can't have another Rolls-Royce,  then he will remember these things, and it will set him thinking. don't accept substitutes. Of course, the world is full to capacity of a number of things, and there is something in the world for a girl besides a husband. And yet, though I say it softly, there never was a woman so closely wedded to a career that she would not divorce it in a twinkling in order to marry the right man. Some few women have tried being wedded to both, but just as marriage is its own reward, bigamy is its own punishment. Nothing has ever been found equal to a man's shoulder for crying on. Art is thrilling, but you can't run your fingers through its hair. A career is MAKING A HUSBAND OUT OF A MAN. 613 absorbing, but you can't tie pink ribbons round the curls of your brain children. Work is beautiful and ennobling, but it never calls you sweetly foolish names, takes you out to dinner, admires your latest hat, or tells you how different you are from all other women. In short, the most radical self -ordained bachelor girl will admit that she is making no great human sacrifice when she elects to give up her freedom, her wild ways, and her dances, in order to make herself worthy of a pure, sweet man. Every normal girls wants a home,  and what is home without a husband? He is as necessary to this domestic charm as a negligee, a samovar, or a cat. He gives the house that homelike feeling. Without him, it lacks a "finished" look. He suggests ready money like a door-plate, an assortment of liveried footmen or a Porte cohere. He is more of an adornment at your dinner parties than orchids or the latest lion. In the eyes of society, he is better than a certificate of character. The moment you are married, women almost stop gossiping and speculating about you, and men feel that they can come to your parties with perfect safety, knowing that you can have no ulterior matrimonial designs upon them. The family speaks of you as "settled;" and nobody ever again calls you "poor thing." Verily, verily, what profiteth it a woman though she have every luxury in all the world, and have not a little husband in her home? THE GIFT OF A HUSBAND. If a husband were like a hat or a frock, I should say that half the success in the delicate task of "making a husband out of a mere man" depended upon a woman's careful choice and wise selection. But husbands are very much more like valentines or Christmas gifts. You can't choose them. You must simply wait until they arrive and then try to appear perfectly delighted with what you receive. However, having accepted him, it is always assumed that a girl has gotten what she wanted  or, at least, the best that she could get. If he is not all that her fancy painted  well, when it comes home from the shop, what in this life is all that her fancy painted it? When you discover that the hat which the milliner wished on you was a "mistake," do you bestow it upon the laundress, and sit down and repine? Not at all. You try wearing it at another angle; you give it a turn here, a twist there, a new curve somewhere; you add an extra feather or remove a superfluous flower  and behold! the hat gradually begins to look fairly smart. You may even grow to love it in time. And so there are few husbands who, with a little taking in and letting out, polishing up and trimming down, can not be transformed into fairly satisfactory life-mates. There are few utterly impossible 
 men; although T will admit that some of them are highly improbable. ASSORTED HUSBANDS. Husbands come in assorted materials. There are wooden husbands, husbands of steel, husbands of iron, husbands of putty, and a few husbands that are all wool and a yard wide. Given your materials, it is up to you to build the finished product. You can not transform your wooden husband into an idealist or a sentimentalist; but you may be able to make a very serviceable, satisfactory, decorative bit of household furniture out of him. You can not twist your iron husband around your finger, but you can take a great deal of sweet and comforting satisfaction in his durable substantial qualities. You can not make a hero of your putty husband, but perhaps you can model him into a very beautiful oh jet d'art. Once you have made up your mind to look for them, you will be astonished to discover what a number and variety of attractive and interesting possibilities a normal man possesses. and when you have brought these out and developed them to their highest degree, perhaps you will find that the average married man does not make the worst husband, after all. A HUSBAND IS AN OPPORTUNITY. But do not assume that your task is going to be a pleasant sinecure. For the stupendous job of making a husband out of a man. a woman needs faith, hope, and charity  and the greatest of these is charity. She needs faith, first, in herself and in her ability to hold and mold the particular lump of clay she has chosen,  or drawn: second, faith in her ideals: and last, faith in her man clay, knows  in that her husband's a woman ability has onto exalted do or be. ideal When of him,a will strain every nerve in his sold and body to live up to it.  she needs to do is to keep a living picture of himself as a combination hero-gentleman-lover-and-provider constantly before his eye. and he'll think it's his own reflection, and make it the aim of his existence to resemble it in every detail. You can't bully a man into heaven, but you can flatter him into anything, from salvation to perdition. And the sole difference between nagging and flatten is the difference between informing him that he looks perfectly hideous in a low collar, and telling him that he looks particularly handsome in a high collar. You will discover that every man does just about what is expected of him in this world; and it's because most wives expect so little of their husbands that they get so little. For it is a melancholy fact that the average man can rise no higher than his wife's ideal of him. A husband is not a dispensation of Providence; he is an opportunity. And any woman who sits calmly by. and accepts him, just "as is," is not make good on the job of matrimony. MAKING A HUSBAND OUT OF A MAN. 615 When you have done your utmost to adjust your husband to your ideal, it is not at all a bad plan to turn around and adjust yourself to your husband  precisely as you would adjust your hair to your hat, or your figure to the new silhouette. Remember that he, too, has some rosy dreams and illusions as he steps tremblingly and blushingly beside you to the altar. He has that radiant masculine vision of the sunny home, the smiling wife perfectly coiffed and set in the midst of a billowy pink negligee, sitting by his side, gazing worshipfully into his eyes, and agreeing with every blessed word he utters. There are going to be days when you won't feel at all like doing any of those things, and days when they just simply can't be done. Everything will go wrong; stubbornly, sickeningly wrong. So, if some dim, cold, dark, misty morning, he overlooks the matutinal kiss, and seems to forget that you are there, just remember that, at your very best, you can only manage to approximate his prenuptial vision of you, as a combination siren-saint-soul-mate-and-light running-domestic. THE ETERNAL MYSTERY. Do not lay down your task at the first word of impatience, the first hint of neglect, the first sign that you are married to a human being instead of to a stained-glass saint. Do not sit down and mope at the thought that you are a "misunderstood woman." Of course, you are. So am I. So is every woman. That is why men marry us. If any man ever suspected that he "understood" a woman, it would break his heart, for then she would lose her greater charm, fascinating mystery, to him. Above all, do not begin to wonder dreamily if, somewhere out in the vast luminous void, there is not a "twin soul" calling to you,  one who could "appreciate" you. Providence did not make souls in pairs; and exchanging one husband for another is like changing a bundle from one hand to another. It merely affords you a temporary relief. Any woman who has tried that will tell you that one man's moods are as inexplicable as another's, one man's excuses are as weak as another's, and, when he is tired, one man's kisses are as perfunctory as another's. You don't know anything about any man in all the wide world until you have had to share the same house, the same dinner-table, the same servants, and the same relations with him. A wise old millionaire once sagely remarked to a group of young business men, "Stick to one thing until you have made a success of it." If he had been addressing a group of prospect-! ve brides, he might have added, "Stick to your husband until you have made a success of him." After all, making a living, or making a career, or making fame, or making a fortune, or making trouble is not the real forte of a normal woman. It is making a husband out of a man.