[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainment Morag]

Home Entertainment. Morag. THANKSGIVING DAY. While Thanksgiving day in its present form is a distinctly American holiday, it may be of interest to trace it back to its original source. Like many other modern customs it had a -divine origin. The Lord, in speaking to the children of Israel through Moses, said: "Thou shalt keep * * * the feast of the harvest, the first fruits of thy labors, which thou hast sown in thy fields, and the feast of ingathering, which is at the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labors out of the field" (Exodus 23). In Leviticus the command is given, "When ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the Lord, and ye shall rejoice before the Lord your God seven days." In Deuteronomy, Moses gave these instructions: "Thou shalt keep the feast of tabernacles seven days * * * thou shalt rejoice in thy feast because the Lord thy God shall bless thee in thine increase, and in all the work of thine hands." In the book of Nehemiah the Lord commanded, "Go forth into the mount, and fetch olive branches, and branches of wild olive, and myrtle branches and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths. So the people went forth and brought them and made themselves booths every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts and in the courts of the house of God * * * and there was very great gladness." This great Feast of Tabernacles was kept by ancient Israel. It commenced on the Sabbath day. and concluded on the following Sabbath. During the festival the people lived in booths or arbors, out of doors. They carried palm branches in their hands and sang Hosannahs. The psalms sung in their worship were 113 to 118. Numerous sacrifices were offered, and many wonderful ceremonies performed. This great feast was kept to remind the Israelites of their travels in the desert, and also of the time when the tabernacle of the Lord stood in their midst, and also to remind them of the future advent of the Messiah, their Lord and King. They were also commanded to share the feast with the stranger, the widow and the fatherless. The Ancient Greeks held a festival called the Thesmorphoria. It was the feast of Demeter, the goddess of the harvest and agriculture. It was celebrated in Athens, in November, by married women only. A week was spent in HOME ENTERTAINMENT. 631 feasting and sacrifice to the gods. The symbols of the goddess Were poppies, and ears. of corn, fruit, and a small pig. The Romans worshiped Ceres as their harvest deity. Her annual festival occurred on October 4. The first fruits of the harvest were given to the goddess. There were processions, music, and rustic sports and the usual feast of thanksgiving. In England the autumnal festival is called the "harvest home," and may be traced back to the Saxons in time of Egbert. In many of the rural districts the last load of wheat is carried home with great rejoicing and a feast is held to celebrate the "Harvest Home." In many of the churches a harvest thanksgiving service is held. The building is beautifully decorated with autumn fruit and flowers, sheaves of wheat and vegetables. These are later given to the poor. We are America when all the familiar Pilgrim with the origin Fathers of Thanksgiving held their day in first Thanksgiving, in 1621, sharing their feast with Chief Massasoit and some ninety Indians. For three days they rejoiced and feasted. Little by little the custom has spread until it has become a national holiday proclaimed by the President, and kept by every loyal and true American. In our celebration this year, let us go back in spirit at least to the ancient religious order of the feast. We have been abundantly blessed with a bounteous harvest and have conserved, preserved and taken care of, a good deal of our crops. Let us go to our houses of worship with grateful hearts to our Father in heaven. We should share with our less fortunate brothers and sisters, and see to it that no one in our neighborhood is in want. With one voice we can lift up our hearts to the bounteous Giver of all Good. "Oh give thanks unto the Lord for he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever!" THANKSGIVING ENTERTAINMENTS. The month of November brings us those wonderful days of nature that we call Indian Summer. Days of bright, golden sunshine are followed by clear, sharp, frosty nights. The corn is stacked in the field; the leaves,, tanned and brown, play under the raked storm-stripped trees. In the hardy flower-border glows the rich yellows and browns of that queen of autumn flowers, the chrysanthemum. There comes a time when the heart of man joins with nature and says,  "Let us give thanks to the God of the harvest." The President's proclamation for a day of prayer and thanksgiving comes at this time, and it is fitting, indeed, to meet together in the churches and homes of the people to give thanks to the bounteous Giver of all good. Thanksgiving day is an oppor- 
 tune time to hold family reunions, and to remember the poor, for of "all the joys of holiday time sharing is the best." For table decorations use chrysanthemums. If these are not available, a large pumpkin hollowed out to form a basket, and filled with fruit, will make a pretty center piece. The menu will consist of the national bird, turkey, with the usual trimmings. Here is a typical menu: Cream of Corn Soup Celery Roast Turkey Cranberry Jelly Mashed Potatoes Baked Sweet Potatoes Brown Bread Squash Pie Fruit Nuts After the blessing, let each one present tell one or more reasons for being thankful. Mere are some turkey conundrums which may be asked during the meal, or they may be used as a game after dinner: 1. Give five reasons why the turkey should be sad. 2. What part of the turkey is used on milady's toilet? 3. What part opens the door? 4. What is part of a sentence? 5. Which part is used for cleaning purposes? 6. What does the farmer watch with anxiety? 7. Why is a man who eats too fast like a turkey? 8. When cooking, in what country is he? 9. Which part is a story? 10. What appears in the battlefield? Answers to turkey game: 1. Pie got it in the neck; he was bled; got a roasting; terribly cut up; in the sou]). 2. Comb. 3. Last Part Key. 4. Clause (claws). 5. Wings. 6. Crop. 7. Both gobblers. 8. Greece. 9. Tail. 10. Drumstick. Another jolly game is Thanksgiving Shadow Pictures. Are range large sheet in archway with powerful light behind (use reflector ). Here are some good points to illustrate: Landing of Pilgrims on Plymouth Rock. Friendly Indians greet new arrivals. Going to meeting armed. Hostile Indians attack Pilgrim. Mother, teaching Indian maid to do housework, lets baby fall in tub, falls over furniture, and is chased out with broom. John Alden and Priscilla. First thanksgiving. Miles Standish drills raw recruits. Capture of a witch and her escape. Witch steps over candle while a toy witch is drawn up the curtain very slowly. Other subjects will suggest themselves.