[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Happiness | Author: Bunker]
[Happiness Now Wilma Boyle Bunker]

Sister Bloxham reports satisfaction and happiness in the organization of this branch Relief Society: "I am happy to report the newly organized Relief Society of the Battle Mountain Branch. We were fortunate in having all our stake presidency there. The stake Relief Society executives were there also, except for the secretary. The spirit of th Lord was surely with us, and we felt the power of the Priesthood. There are between thirty and thirty-five women living in the area and we are in hopes of having them as members of our Relief Society." 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Photograph submitted by Betty Jo C. Reiser ROSE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) PRESENTS DRAMA "RIDERS TO THE SEA" The cast, left to mght: Bartley—Dan Monson; Nora—Marion Huston; Maurya— Ione Tippetts; Cathleen—Beverly Berntsen. President Betty Jo C. Reiser, reports: "John Millington Synge's 'Riders to the Sea,' a part of the December literature lesson, rated special treatment in the new Rose Park Stake, with a full production under the direction of Verda Mae Christensen, stake literature class leader. It rated special praises, too, from the two hundred Relief Society women from the five Rose Park wards attending. Sister Christensen had her first experience in directing a play cast primarily of adult women — loyal Relief Society women — and reports it was a most wonderful group. Sister lone Tippetts, who played Maurya, has seven children under thirteen years of age. Sister Marion Huston, who played Nora, has six children in the same age group. Other members of the cast each has three children. And it was the busy pre-Christmas season. Yet the play left nothing to be desired in the way of finesse, dramatic strength, and theatrical polish. 'The Lord has truly blessed the sisters in Rose Park Stake to be able to accomplish such things while they are rearing their families, at a time when they feel they most need the blessings of Relief Society work. Sister Christensen was assisted by the ward literature class leaders: Doris Shutt, Dorothy Evans, Mildred Keyes, and Margaret England."

happiness of the whole family. VIVIAN did not know what Ken had planned, but she felt a little fe that he had not taken the children into his confidence as she had done. He only smiled secretively and went about his affairs with a smug happiness. On the morning of the anniversary Vivian came to breakfast in a frilly brunch coat, an anniversary gift of two years ago. She had only worn it twice, when she had been ill, and she put on her new pink lipstick, carefully. Ken whistled when he saw her, and all the children laughed with pleasure, except Laurie who flushed and looked uncomfortable. When Ken was off to work and the children out to play, Vivian dressed in her newest housedress - and cleaned the house. Laurie helped, walking about quiet and morose all morning.. By the time lunch was over and the little ones napping and the larger ones out to play again, Vivian was tired. She sat down limply in the kitchen, TO YOU, BELOVED staring at the gigantic pile of dirty dishes in the sink. Laurie came in with some flowers and arranged them tastefully in the living room. "Thank you, Laurie," Vivian said. "Those will be lovely for our anniversary dinner tonight." "Mama," Laurie began hesitantly, "I told Bryce I didn't think I wanted to go with him anymore." At Vivian's disapproving look, she added hastily, defensively, "I didn't think it was fair, since I have decided on a very exciting career and may never marry. Unless it were someone really different, and." She stopped, groping for words. "It seems a little early to worry about marriage," Vivian answered. "I mean, couldn't you just go out on dates — not always with Bryce, perhaps." "Don't you like Bryce, Mama?" Laurie swung around to face Vivian, wide-eyed and questioning. "I think he is the nicest boy you know," said Vivian sincerely. "But I don't imagine he is thinking about marriage—at his age." "Bryce is eighteen, Mama," Laurie said with a little toss of her golden head. "He—he thinks he would like us to get married when he is through college." "Oh." Vivian struggled to keep the smile back. "But I told Bryce last night that I felt I just wasn't the type for an ordinary marriage." She stressed the ordinary, and Vivian winced. Over her shoulder, before she disappeared upstairs, she added, "If Daddy will take you out tonight, Mama, I will baby-sit. I'm going to do the upstairs now." Vivian was momentarily de- 233 pressed, but the thought of spending an evening out, soon revived her spirits, and she attacked the mountain of dishes and pots and pans with enthusiasm. She could hardly wait to tell Ken. That evening they sat down to their elaborate dinner with hushed expectancy, for two of the boys were laboriously bringing Ken's gift down from its upstairs hiding place. At last they arrived, amid suppressed giggles and sighs. Upon its presentation, Ken was rapturous. "Say, that is just what I have wanted all year, and just in time for our camping trip next month, too." He gave Vivian an affectionate kiss, and the children were ecstatic. Even Laurie smiled. "I am going to give your mother's gift to her after we eat dinner," laughed Ken. "It is so beautiful I am afraid she would be too excited to eat." S° the delightful anxiety lasted all through the dinner, and Laurie began to Cua and to guess with the others. Vivian sat misty-eyed through the whole meal, thankful for her husband and her eight lovely children — even loving the old house, with all its inconveniences tonight, because her grandmother had reared her children here — because it had known so much love. Ken made a great ceremony out of her gift presentation and Vivian sat down in her armchair, with all the children circled about her on the floor. It was beautifully wrapped, and had the little envelope attached that Vivian knew so well. She opened the gift first. Everyone gasped as she withdrew 234 the gleaming necklace from its velvet box. "It's exquisite!" exclaimed Laurie, her hands clasped together. Vivian's heart was too full to let her speak — to let Ken know it was too expensive, too beautiful for her. And how she loved it. She reached out to squeeze his hand and he kissed her. 'Then, carefully, with trembling fingers, she opened the little envelope. She began to read the sixteenth beautiful sonnet that Ken had written to her. "To you, beloved " Vivian couldn't read it aloud. She read it through quietly, the tears blinding her. 'The younger children were still admiring the necklace. Only Laurie stood expectant, longing.. "Laurie, put this card away — with the others. 'There is a little blue box tied with satin ribbon in the bottom drawer of my vanity." Ken looked at her, strangely, and then with understanding warming in his eyes. "Thank you, darling," Vivian said at last. "Hurry and get ready for our date, Mama," he whispered. %? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Vivian had so much help getting ready she wondered if she would ever be dressed. But, at last, she was, © and the necklace made even the old black dress look lovely. As Barbara hurried downstairs to see about the baby, Vivian realized that she had made herself into more of a drudge than was necessary. They love to make us happy, too, if we will let them, she thought, remembering how kind Laurie had been, how cheerful the others about Mommy's date. The door opened and _ closed quietly. Laurie stood against the bedroom door, tall and straight. She cleared her throat,. And Vivian turned from the mirror. "I—I read them all, Mama. I hope you don't care." When Vivian smiled, she continued, with wonder in her voice and her eyes shining, "A poem for every year, Mama. Do you suppose anyone will ever love me... Like that?" Vivian reached impulsively for the hand of her growing-up daughter. They both knew that in Laurie's heart something new and beautiful had been born. Ema Springtime Finds the Canyon