[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: New | Author: Rawlins]
Tlew VUsstas Jennie Brown Rawlins "Here, you ride him, Auntie," invited my young miece, who was proudly showing off her new pony. "No, no, dear," I remonstrated quickly. "Auntie doesn't care about riding horses any more." Then, remembering the days when riding a pony over the smooth, rolling hills had been the epitome of joy to me, I experienced a feeling of nostalgic sadness. I recalled that there were several other hobbies and pastimes that used to fill me with deep-souled delight that I no longer enjoyed. 'There were dishes that used to tickle my palate that somehow seemed now to have lost their savor. I kept thinking of a line from a poem: "My straw no longer bends in colored water."' It's true, I said to myself, as we grow older we no longer greet life with such youthful exuberance. Our senses are not as perceptive to the keen enjoyment of things. There followed a series of events that proved how wrong I was. During the summer months I was invited to join a group that was planning to attend a course at the college. With slight feelings of guilt about robbing my family (the youngest of whom was twelve) of so much of my time, I hesitated, until reminded that it would be a wonderful opportunity for them to learn to accept responsibility. The instructor had a dynamic personality, and was full of fresh, new ideas, and, without being asked, answered many of the questions that I had been pondering in my heart. It was like a gift that you appreciate all the more because you have experienced a need for it. I do not remember ever having enjoyed a course so much in my younger days. That winter we went on a trip and revisited some of the places I had visited as a girl. This time it was not the zoo and amusement parks that intrigued me_ so much as the museums and art galleries— a. FOR MY MOTHER—Molotte 20 a. MOTHER—Rubinstein.20 a. M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse eee > MOTHER MACHREE—Ball 15. MOTHER O' MINE—Tours 20 —. PRAYER FOR MY MOTHER— ee 15 =. SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME—Dvorak 2.2 2 coeeeeeeeeeeeee 10.. THAT'S WHAT GOD MADE MOTHERS FOR—Wood 25 ante THAT WONDERFUL MOTHER: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Mothers Day Whasic FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES ° OF MINE—Goodwin.20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank Please send the music indicated above. C] On Approval CL] Charge (0 Money Enclosed THT LETT LTEL ELS Ts e. Fst south 145 woami uurvensiry, prov o 2060 aa tae Page 2/7 278. BRAND y NAMES? MAKE SEARS BRAND. NAMES YOUR GUIDE. TO WISE BUYING I COLDSPOTKENMone REGU. S. PAT. OFF. REG. U. S. PAT. OFF, CRAFTSMAN S Gorton REGISTERED YRADE MARK QEE. U. S. PAT. OFF. All Sold Only By Sears, Roebuck and Co. HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. _ EUROPE Another famous' FESTIVAL TOUR. Sails for Europe from Montreal on July 16, 1956, via the Empress of Canada. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 places I had considered stodgy and dull in my youth. I began studying my Relief Society lessons more carefully, taking renewed pleasure in them as I did so. I even did some extracurricular reading in the field of literature. 'The characters in David Copperfield and Wuthering Heights became more humanly appealing when seen through the spectrum of experience, and poems that I had recited parrot-like in school suddenly blossomed with exciting shades of meaning. A neighbor of mine is starting an heirloom quilt—a thing she admits she would not have had the patience to undertake when she was twenty. Another neighbor gets great satisfaction out of gathering genealogical data—a project for which she says she has had little time or inclination until recently., I must not fail to mention the soulpermeating joy that comes from service to others, and from becoming acquainted with the beautiful truths of the gospel— a joy that maturity but enhances. Yes, new vistas are continually opening up before us. How foolish we are if we keep our eyes glued only to the old. —- Circle Catherine E.. Berry The blue-gray twilight stretches now Across the hills of night, And windows of each little house Are blossoming with light. Tired husbands open waiting gates, And children straggle home, The homing instinct conquering The primal urge to roam. Beneath each small and sturdy roof Are gathering the clan, The need for food and light and warmth, Instinctive in each man, Has pushed the night beyond the door, Beyond each window pane, And drawn the circle in and made It safe, complete, again. Jo the Relief Society Uissiting Seachers Hazel Jones Owen Perhaps you think the task is small Which you've been called to do, But what's important is the fact So much depends on you. A tiny little mustard seed Has power truly great; It takes a little thing like love To banish fear and hate. It takes perfected detail To make a masterpiece in art; Small things in a mighty building Must play a major part. The little tasks, the kindly deeds, The world may not applaud. But it's the scope of all the little things That shows the greatness of our God! ~—_-- Pee ea ww ee GS OO mie 2S ~~ "2204, ~ an oe - a) aera fore omsinegg CLE we eBay CULE Pare aT os eed To oe ww =—s8ms: Bo ~~ = w@ ¥ r) ¥ wae Use for Old Screens Elizabeth Williamson ON'T throw away old window screens —they make an effective protection for new plants against sun, wind, and birds. ~ ORGANISTS You will receive full information about new organ music and materials as it is issued, and also suggestions of outstanding interest, by filling in the coupon below and mailing it to GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO.

74 So. Main = Salt Lake City, Utah ee ee Oe w em eee w ese nsaeeseecsnccsccccessceessacesesas eee em ena eecwesaceesae see aessasevesseaas Type of Organ 20 eeeeeeceeceeeeeeee Where Installed c - cece een It's awaiting You @ eS there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine.