[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Now | Author: Roberts]
["Now Spring," by Dorothy J. Roberts]

Tell those who follow after That I loved this sacred ground. Vernessa M. Nagle ASPENS, NEAR THE SAN FRANCISCO PEAKS, ARIZONA She Aspen Grove Vernessa Miller Nagle A' aspen grove in spring symbolizes the eternal pattern of rebirth. As bare, angular limbs show green under dark bark, the prophecy of life renewed is manifest. Dignity in adaptation is signified in an aspen grove in summer. Here is yielding, yet purposeful adjustment, a reaching for the heights. Pliant leaves catching the breeze, never still on the quietest of summer days, symbolize life's constant unrest, as they become attuned with a throbbing world. Life's fruition is seen in the blending of riotous coloring of an aspen grove in fall. Flaming beauty represents achievement crowned in glory.

Dorothy J. Roberts Snow's fraying cerements have lost their strength; Now spring disturbs the linens and the leveled girth Of land revives to shrug the winter from its length. Greens, innumerable, will range the loosened earth, Will creep or burst in ray or tower, crown Or shock, into returning sun. Life will leap Forth million-formed to cry the season down That marked the world as won with snow, death, sleep. S ixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" A GOLDEN WEDDING: At the foot of a gigantic mountain lies the pastoral village of Pleasant Grove, which now numbers among its inhabitants two of our aged pioneers. One of these, Brother Hanson Walker, who with others pioneered the way to this barren waste and has assisted to make it the Utah of today, celebrated his Golden Wedding on Friday, April 10th. His children and his children's children poured in upon him and his good wife Elizabeth; they have lived happily together for fifty years Among the guests present was the mother of Sister Walker, Sister Margaret Foutz, who has reached the advanced age of ninety-five years and is still quite active. LEONA Leona, look forth and behold From headland, from hillside and deep, The day-king surrenders his banners of gold And twilight advances through woodland and wold And the dews are beginning to weep Leona, good-by; would the grief That is gathering now, ever be Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief, And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief, O'er lowland and river to me —James G. Clark MINERVA WHITE SNOW: The news of the unexpected demise of Sister Minerva White Snow, wife of Apostle Erastus Snow, was quite a shock to many of her friends and to her relatives in this City. Sister Snow died April 1, 1896, at Manti, where she has been living for several years past, having been called there at the time of the dedication of the Manti Temple, and has been laboring therein almost continuously.... Faithful and true in every department of life, a loving wife, an affectionate mother, a wise counselor, full of integrity and abounding in faith and good works, amiable, tender, considerate of the feelings of others, and full of charity —