[Vol9 | September 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Dollar Saved is a Dollar Earned Lalene H. Hart]

A DOLLAR SAVED IS A DOLLAR EARNED ? 483 standards in mind. The life of a garment made depends on the fastness of color, pleasantness of texture, ability to shed soil, behavior with or without starch, shrinkage and style. Careful planning is necessary for intelligent buying. Buy the best articles and material for the particular needs. In purchasing material to be made, the buyer must keep in mind such questions as; Will it pull or fray easily? (Can it be stitched readily without gathering? Will it wash or can it be cleaned without injury to the weave or color? The style or pattern and trimming to be used must be considered. Some material does not lend itself easily to bias folds or plaiting and if it be wash material, time and energy in laundering must be taken into account. A good plan in making wash dresses and aprons of ginghams, kiddy cloth, etc., is to shrink the material first. This is best done by allowing it to stand in salt water (proportion of three-fouths cup salt to one gallon water) an hour or more. Wash in warm suds of soft water and ivory soap, rinse thoroughly, dry as straight as possible, dampen and iron perfectly even and smooth. A little extra time and energy used in the beginning will save a great deal i in the end, if clothes soon have to be remodeled. - Utility and Texture Warmth and not weight should enter in the selection of winter clothes. The human body is like a furnace, if well stocked and in good order, will give off heat. It should be dressed so as - to retain the heat and get some benefit from it. Wool with covering of some other material is best. The thousands of little cells store up the heat, the outer covering keeps it in, and the cold out. Wool is light and warm but must have proper care or it will become hard, stiff and shrunken. Many a child has been made to dislike wool clothing of every kind because he was forced to wear improperly cared for flannels and kept in a warm house. Imagine trying to persuade a fourteen or sixteen year old boy to sit in church under these conditions. One little test the housewife can make, to determine whether the material she is buying is wool, is to get a small sample and apply a match; the way it burns and the odor will soon convince her as to its quality. Samples of cotton and silk can be easily tested for qualities mentioned above. Perhaps not two articles of clothing require more skill in purchasing and receive less attention, than shoes and hats. Real foot comfort is rarely found, but it could and should be made universal, by scientific study and shoefitting. A salesman should have some knowledge of the anatomy of the foot in order to efficiently serve his customers. The buyer should have common sense and good judgment, that the shoes may give comfort, good looks and wear well. Many ills, especially of women, are caused by improper  | fitting and wearing of shoes. We quote from a recently published article, rules well worth think'ng about: 1. Don't try to wear impractical shoes for practical service. 2. Don't use snap judgment in the selection of the place where you buy your shoes, Scientific footfiting is not usually practiced in shoe cafeterias. 3. Don't fail to bear in mind that your one pair of feet must serve you a lifetime. 4. Don't tell your shoe salesman what size you wear. Make it his business to fit your feet. 5. Don't foolishly allow 'foot style" to supersede common footsense when buying a pair of shoes. 6. Don't sacrifice your comfort by requiring a foot-fitter to do impossible things. Vanity and footfitting are far removed. 7. Don't buy price in buying shoes. It is only relative, while good, honestly made, comfortable_shoes are always an economy. ? It is economy to have more than one pair of every day or walking shoes at one time. The perspiration of the feet tends to rot the leather, hence the necessity of changing often for comfort and wear. Children's Clothing Some mothers hamper their children's devefopment and happiness by foolish dressing. Sometimes for their own pleasure or vanity they dress them in dainty lace-trimmed garments, and then warn them not to soil their clothes, which is impossible for the child to do if he plays. There are many styles of bloomers, petti-. Coats, play aprons and wash dresses, which are easily and quickly made, and ever so much more easily ironed, especially if one is fortunate in owning a machine. It is surely much more sensible for a child to have plenty of good, clean, plain (yet attractive and pretty) clothes than to be hampered with ruffles and frills which take so long to launder. Especially is this true for the school child. It is very poor taste and far more harmful to the child, both physically and mentally. The child is in school for the purpose of being properly developed and if his clothing intereferes with the free movements of his body. Or if he is conscious of what he wears, that development is not normal. Much of the cast off clothing of the grownups can be used in making children's clothing, especially skirts, coats, men's suits, shirts and ties. It is surprising the number of pretty combinations that the clever housewife can evolve by using the scissors, thread, and old clothes bag, All old materials should be thoroughly cleaned and pressed before using. No better or more economical way can be used than to shake them vigorously to remove all dust, then wash in warm suds of soft water and ivory soap, and press while damp. Water from the melted ice in the refrigerator is excellent for this purpose.  The same points considered with smaller children's clothes ca_, be equally well applied to the college boy's or girl's wardrobe. Every average normal girl loves that which is beautiful, and in order for her to get the best and most out of college life she should have pretty, suitable clothes; then she can forget them and herself and devote her time to her work. She should be encouraged in her taste, but care must be taken not to let her worship clothes. First and most important are her needs at the particular place where she goes, and the amount to be expended. She should not take too much; it is better to add a little than 'be overburdened or have the wrong things. A few, well chosen, conservative clothes are more stylish and serviceable than a whole wardrobe of fluffy type. Plenty of underwear and stockings are necessary. Firm material made in a plain, simple way is best for service for every day, with one or two suits of finer materials for special occasions. Wool or mercerized stockings for everyday, and silk only occasionally, with low heel shoes of black or brown, are most sensible and economical. Slippers, the color of evening or afternoon gowns, or black, are always good. White shoes should not be worn with black or dark dresses. One-piece dresses are best for class room. Two dresses, dark wool material, with touches of embroidery and extra collar and cuffs, a skirt and a few middies or knit jackets, - one or two simple dresses for afternoonand evening (coat sweater), one good medium tailored hat, not too fussy, and perhaps a tam or sport hat, with a few little accessories may be sufficient for the girl who enters college for the first time. Care of Clothes No matter how becoming the clothes or how expensive the material from which they are made, if not properly cared for and pressed, they will soon become shabby and old and will not give the service they should. A few little details carefully practiced will prolong the life of a garment materially. As soon as clothes are removed from the body (especially street clothes) they should be shaken to remove dust, and hung up to air. The careless way of throwing clothes on the floor or on the pieces of furniture, or any place handy is not only a slovenly habit, but it shortens by one half the service of the garment. Spots and stains of any kind should be removed as soon as possible. Some of the ordinary and common ones can be removed 'easily by the housewife without injury to the fabric. Most fruit and punch stains can be removed by simply pouring hot or cold water through them. Ink stains if removed quickly will yield in luke-warm water; more obstinate ones can be removed by applying cream of tartar or diluted oxalic acid and then washing in clear water. A medicine dropper should  be used when applying acid. Water spots can be removed by steam. The best way is to force the steam through a cloth so as not to wet the rest of the material. Always wash and rinse in the same temperature of water. When linens or silks are washed they should be dampened all over so they will not spot when ironed. Roll silks in simple thickness between dry, clean, white cloths. Woolen material or knitted garment should be spread on pad to dry. Press wool on wrong side when possible; if on right, press over cloth. Do not use too hot an iron, or press any kind of clothing too often, but keep in press by proper hanging and folding. By the wise selection for the many conservative, serviceable and yet artistic styles and fabrics now obtainable, and by the application of a few fundamental principles, many hard-earned dollars may be saved. Dehydrating Foods?fruits, vegetables, fish and meats, by A. Louise Andrea, giving practical directions for successful dehydration, both for homes and commercial establishments, with a complete line of recipes for cooking and serving dehydrated products of all kinds. This is the book of the hour, coming just at the time when under-production and high prices make it imperative to conserve every bushel of farm, orchard and garden produce. Dehydration is the superior method of food preservation. No cans, jars or tedious canning process necessary. Merely the water removed from food materials, leaving all flavorings and nourishment values intact. "The water taken out of the high cost of living." Perishable produce is preserved easily, economically and advantageously by dehydration, for homes, hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, schools, institutions, ships and dining cars. Pounds are reduced to ounces simply by removal of water content. Money, work, time and spoilage are saved; weight, bulk and storage space are reduced astonishingly. Dehydration furnishes the maximum of good living at the minimum expense. Well called, "The Modern Food Miracle." The Cornhill Company, 2a Park Street, Boston, U. S. A.