[Vol9 | September 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: My Conversion to Work for the Dead Nina B. McKean]

My Conversion to Work for the Dead Nina B. McKean I walked in desolation; on the plain. Whence came or whither bent, I could not tell. But all around, my spirit clouds hung low; 'And why was I alive? My weary voice. Implored. I only knew a vague and helpless fear Oppressed my heart, for nothing I could see. An aching restlessness more sharp than pain Still drove me ever farther on my way. I felt, as mayhap did the Rich Young Man, The law indeed J'd kept e'en from my youth; But I never had great wealth to give, And yet condemned I felt myself to be. What talents had I in a napkin laid? My mind I searched to find where lay the fault, T knew that imperfections strewed my backward path, Yet nothing seemed to bring such sorrow unto me. When to my aching eyes a vision came! Before my path a mighty prison stood, While around my neck was hung a tiny key Which long had hung and soiled my clothes with rust. The great gate of the outer walls unlocked By hands which held a greater key than mine, For me to open, one by one, the smaller cells And thereby let the captive spirits free. For long, long years I'd worn the key While through the pleasant ways my feet had trod, My talents were not for such work, I thought, Until my soul was brought in sorrow low. And still in protest rebel will cried out, 'Am I a locksmith called this work to do? Why should I search through endless cells? To find the door my little key will fit? Quick came to me the age-old voice, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Through my soul A cry rang out as on my garments white, Where rust had been, a crimson stain now spread. Swift flew my feet to fit to doors my key. B: My restlessness, now past, my only fear The time allotted was too short to open all the doors; My woe forgotten, I was filled with peace. And joy of joys, when opened cells I saw From out there trooped, oh happy sight? The kindred spirits I had known before: And knew them as the line which gave me birth.