QUEEN VICTORIA'S GIRLHOOD.

	It is seldom the privilege of a biographer
 to have so interesting and so good a subject
as her R. H. Queen Victoria. By the way,
it seems odd to speak of the queen as a sub-

[Column 2]
ject, At the time of her birth it was well
known that she was a royal little personage,
being a direct descendant of Alfred the
Great, renowned by thirty-five generations,
and thirty-seventh from the first to be de-
clared and acknowledged King of all Eng-
land. Though being of such noble birth
there were also others, and it was by no
means certain that she would occupy the
throne. But it does appear, though she
herself did not declare it as one other did,
that she was a child of destiny. The nu-
merous escapes when her life was in jeopar-
dy, the gradual and silent slipping away of
those between her and the throne, her long
and glorious reign all would faypr this
theory. She is a grand-daughter of George
III., King of England at the time of the
American Revolution. Her father, who
was Edward Duke of Kent, was the fourth
son of the king, and only differed from his
family in being better than the others.
	He married a German princess, Victoria
of Leiningen. She was a widow and the
mother of two children. The Duke, who
was very philanthropic and noble in dis-
position, and on that account most
popular with his countrymen though only
a younger son, was also poor. His allow-
ance was miserably small compared with his
expenditures, and these were not made in
fashionable excesses. Upon his marriage
in 1818 he went to live in Germany with
his bride. The mother of Victoria was a
woman of superior wisdom, with much
common sense and determination. And
one knows not how much of the happiness
of this world today depends upon the wis-
dom, strength of character and goodness of
that one little woman as manifested in the
training of her daughter.
	Shortly before the birth of Victoria the
Duke and Duchess of Kent removed to
England, with a feeling of commendable
patriotism, that their child might be born
on English soil, or as her mother expressed
it ‘‘that she might be born and bred a
Briton."  And a bonny, winsome child it
was that came to bless their home. She
came on May 24, 1819, at Kensington
Palace, and was known to all England as
“the little Mayflower.’’ Her father named
her Alexandrina Victoria after the Czar of
Russia and her own beloved mother. She,
however, after arriving at woman’s estate,
though still young, perhaps vaguely realiz-
ed something of what her mother had done
for her. However, that may be, when she
came to affix her signature the first time as
monarch of the kingdom she determined
that no name should precede or supercede
that of her beloved mother and signed sim-
ply “Victoria.’’ She was but a few
months old when her father, who had un-
wisely remained out in the grounds until
he became damp and cold, upon coming in
could not restrain his impatience to see his
darling child but went straight to her nurs-
ery before putting on dry shoes. The re-
sult was a chill, pneumonia and death. It
is reputed that on one occasion when he
put his child in his attendants arms he said,
“ Take care of her, for she will be queen of
England.’’ That must surely have been
what in women would be called intuition.
	The widowed mother now had naught to
live for but her child. She was not greatly
beloved by her husband’s relatives, most
probably because she was not understood.
But a more devoted mother could not be.
She and her child were seldom parted even
for a short time. The little princess al-

[Column 3]
ways had her little bed beside her mamma,
at meals her little table was also beside her
mamma, and there she ate her bread and
milk and fruit. Her health was tenderly
cared for. As a very young child she was
not robust, but health and strength were
fostered by the discipline and daily regime
of her young life. As soon as she was old
enough she had her daily course of lessons,
followed by riding walking, and simple
recreations. Her half sister, Princess
Fedora, was her companion. She was
very fond of her little garden under the
palace windows, and has often been observ-
ed amusing herself there as other children
do, sometimes sprinkling her flowers and
herself simultaneously.
	Her education was conducted under the
watchful and faithful supervision of her
mother, the Baroness Lehzen and Bishop of
______. being her instructors. She be-
came very much attached to the baroness
and made her one of her chief court ladies.
It is said that lack of wealth in the family
was not an unmixed evil. The duchess
was obliged to practice economy. Think
of a duchess being obliged to be economical!
And it most likely laid the foundation for
the thrift and economy which have charac-
terized the reign of Victoria, and heightened
the power and influence of the action.
	Her life as a child moved with the regu-
larity and precision of clock work, and
orderly and regular habits have been ad-
hered to through her life. She studied
modern languages but did not like Latin.
However, it was part of a discipline. She
excelled in music, drawing and painting.
It is said she might have made a name for
herself if life had not been filled by the
duties of a queen. Her voice was clear and
musical, and to this day strangers note her
clear enunciation in speaking and her fine
tones. The education of the princess was
conducted in. such a way that she did not
know until she was twelve or fourteen
years of age, (biographers differ as to the
time) how near to the succession she was.
It was then her governess, Baroness Leh-
zen, thinking it time for her to know, set
before her a genealogical tree to draw out.
	Presently she said, “I can not see who
is to come after Uncle William unless it is
myself.’’ “So it is Madame,” replied the
governess. Then the princess uttered her
thoughts aloud: “Now many a child
would boast, not knowing the difficulty.
There is much splendor, but there is more
responsibility.” After this she put her
little hand into the hand of her teacher and
said, “I will be good. I will be good.”
	It seems to me her future life was fore-
shadowed by that circumstance. Her life
was as simple and quiet as any little country
maiden in many ways, but there was al-
ways the feeling with her trainers that they
were forming the character of a queen.
She saw but little of court life, and during
the time of her uncle, George IV., it was
well she did not. When William III. as
cended the throne, he was bluff and hearty,
for he had been the sailor prince. His
manners were far from ideally royal. One
has a right to expect fair manners and
noble graces and virtues from royalty; but 
such persons are often disappointing.
King William having no heirs and realizing
that Victoria was next in succession, rudely
remarked in the presence of the Duchess of
Kent and before a host of people, that he
hoped he would live to see the princess at-
tain her majority. He wanted no queen


[Column 1]
regent. The duchess turned quite pale at
the affront, but wisely spoke no words and
immediately withdrew from the royal com-
pany. As for the princess her eyes im-
mediately filled with tears at the humilia-
ation of her mother.
	When twelve years of age Victoria at-
tended her first drawing room and as heir
presumptive stood on the left of Queen
Adelaide. She was much admired for her
innocence and the dewy freshness of her
beauty, besides always having fine and en-
gaging manners. On the 24th of May,
1837 the princess attained her majority. It
was a day of great rejoicings. She was
awakened by a serenade, the words of the
song being composed for her. There were
feasts, illuminations and all kinds of holi-
day doings. The king, whose wish was
gratified in seeing her thus come of age,
gave a grand ball, “at which the princess
for the first time took precedence of her
mother” She is said to have blushed
sligh[-]ly at this change of conditions. The
king himself was too ill to attend and the
princess occupied the central chair of state
but the king sent his niece a present of a
piano worth a thousand dollars.
	During the evening she danced with the
Austrian Prince Esterhazy. He is known
to history chiefly for his attire. Grace
Greenwood says “he looked as if he had
been snowed on with pearls and rained on
with diamonds.’’ He really sparkled with
jewels from head to foot, they were even on
the heels of his boots. “It was said that
whenever he wore this splendid costume he
lost numerous gems without either know-
ing or caring.” Of course many congratu-
latory addresses were presented to this
Royal Princess who was now so near the
throne.
	On the morning of June 20th at 10
o’clock, less than a month after his niece
attained her majority, King William died.
As this result was expected a carriage had
been kept in waiting and immediately the
Archbishop of Canterbury of the Lord
Chamberlain drove to Kensington
Palace. Arriving about 4 o’clock they
found some difficulty in gaining admission,
and more in getting audience of H. R. H.
They desired an attendant to say they wish-
ed to see the H. R. H. on business of im-
portance. After some delay the messenger
returned to say the princess was in such a
sweet sleep she could not venture to dis-
turb her. They replied, “We are come on
business of state to the Queen and know
her sleep must give way to that."
	“It did; and to prove that she did not
keep them waiting in a few moments she
came into the room in a loose white night-
gown and shawl her night-cap thrown off
and her hair falling upon her shoulders,
and her feet in slippers, tears in her eyes,
but perfectly collected and dignified.” The
queen's first words, turning to the Primate,
were “I beg your Grace to pray for me,"
which he did. The next thing was to
write to the widowed queen, Adelaide a
sweet letter, in reply to a request that she
might stay at Windsor until after the funer-
al. It was addressed to “Her Majesty,
the Queen." Some one remarked that it
should be addressed to the Queen Dowager.
“I am aware of that.” was the reply, “but
will not be the first to remind her of her
altered position."
	At eleven o'clock of the same day she
entered upon her duties as queen, attend-
ing her first meeting of the Privy Council.

[Column 2]
The first impression she created was very
favorable, the most adverse, if there were
such could not help being struck by her
calm demeanor, and the quiet dignity,
mingled with girlish sweetness and
modesty.
	“The Duke of Wellington told the Clerk
of the Council, that if she had been his own
daughter he could not have desired to see
her perform her part better.’’ And this
was surely great praise from the Iron Duke,
	After the formal proceedings of taking
the oath etc., the Privy Council was sworn;
and she is said to have blushed to the tem-
ples when her elderly uncles knelt to do
her homage. The girlish feeling of family
respect was at that moment uppermost. An
hour after the Privy Council, came that of
the Cabinet Ministers. And the newly
fledged young queen presided over this also
with much ease and dignity, as though she
had always been accustomed to it. Shortly
after her accession the queen went through
the ronnd of balls, receptions, drawing-
rooms, concerts etc., in honor of the event.
“At Her Majesty’s first soiree there were
ten thousand gentlemen present. The
crush was so great that orders and decora-
tions were torn off and diamond buckles
lost from shoes.” Victoria had been queen
a year and a week, and a day when her
coronation took place.
	She ascended the throne at eighteen, was
crowned at nineteen and happily married at
twenty. If that is’nt fine enough for any
fairy story what could be?
	The coronation ceremonies were conduct-
ed with all the pomp and magnificence
that the occasion required, though the
young queen had shown her wisdom and
thrift by omitting certain portions of what
had been heretofore the ceremonial. She
showed her patriotism too, by having her
coronation robes made entirely in her
native land. The Honiton lace alone gave
work to many poor people in a time of
scarcity too. Is it any wonder she has
been beloved by her people from the first
day of her reign? It is said to be a very
imposing spectacle and one truly regal as
this young queen in her virgin freshness
and modesty marched to Westminister
abbey for the coronation. Her coach of
glass and gilding and her eight stately
white horses wiih their fine trappings, and the
noble escort of all grades of nobility formed
a great pageant. And the enthusiastic and
admiring multitude with their cheers, huz-
zas and waving of handkerchiefs, must have
been reassuring to the youthful sovereign.
The climax of spectacular grandeur was
reached when at the services the crown was
placed on the queen's head, and simultan-
eously the peers and peeresses crowned
themselves with their coronets. Some of
the ladies of nobility had remained in West-
minister abbey in their gala attire six or
seven hours or more. It must have taken
several sorts of emotions to sustain them
that long.
E. S. W.


