DEATH OF SISTER S. A. DWYER

O rest precious loved one under the trees;
	The earth with its care is far from thee now;
O bind a green chaplet with rich, rosy flowers,
	And rest it so lightly on they fair white brow.
And play with the sunbeams as they dance and
		glitter,
	Among the tall trees that border the stream;
O slumber and rest through the long golden
		Summer
	And dream a beautiful, happy dream.

	In the rich glowing Summer when the
earth is crowned with verdure and flowers,
when the birds are chirping to their young
in downy nests and the light wind sighs 
lazily along, we are called to part with a
life-long friend.
	When all nature is happy, the sky only
golden and blue, the tear of sympathy must
fall for the newly dead.
	On Wednesday, July 28, 1897, at her
home in the Seventeenth ward, Salt
Lake City, after an illness of some weeks
duration, surrounded by her husband and
entire family, two sons and six daughters,
the spirit of Sister S. A. Dwyer took its
flight into the Beyond. Sister Dwyer was
in her fifty-fourth year. She had been
patient through her suffering and had un-
bounded faith in her Heavenly Father. She
was happy and cheerful in her disposition,
and was loved most by those who knew 
her best. When the writer called to see
her a few days before her departure, she
expressed a longing to be “out under the
trees,” which so beautifully adorn her
home. They seemed to call her to rest
under their cooling shade; and so she long-
ed to sit under the trees, for there she
would be well.
	She peacefully and painlessly slept away
to another life and we who love her well
know that she is resting under the heaven-
ly trees, breathing in the elixir of life im-
mortal.
	Her funeral was held on Sunday July 29,
1897, Bishop Beatie presiding. A quartette
composed of Thomas Ashworth, Will
Patrick and others feelingly sang “I need
Thee every hour,” also “When the swal-
lows homeward fly” and “Earth has no
pain, heaven cannot heal.” Apostle John
Henry Smith, an old friend of Sister Dwy-
er’s, paid a loving tribute to her memory,
earnestly urged her sons and her daughters
to follow in her footsteps, to be faithful to
their God as she had been, to let her image
be ever present with them, that they
might be shielded from evil and sin. To
remember her words of counsel and live
their lives, so as to meet her with joy and
rejoicing when they one by one should be
gathered home.
	May the spirit of consolation rest upon
her aged mother, now in her eighty-fourth
year, and upon Brother James Dwyer, her
husband, also her children and grand-
daughter. May they truly live for the
better life, where there is no more parting,
tears or death.
	Loving hands placed many pure, rare
flowers on her white casket, which was
borne from her late home by her two sons,
two sons-in-law and two dear friends, her
daughters in spotless white following.

[Column 2]
There was no death, but the spirit of love
and peace. Tenderly she was laid to rest
on the hillside among the countless dead,
and the home which she loved will know
her no more.

There is rest for the feet grown weary with
		traveling,
	There’s a glorious home far away in the skies;
There’s a beautiful garden whose flowers are
		entrancing,
	They are found in the heavenly Paradise.

O there may we meet you out under the trees,
	When the air of the evening blows softly
		along,
O then may we greet you when the sun goes
		down,
	And join in your tender angel song.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Sa t Lake City.


