LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, July 10th, 1897. Singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Prayer by Sister Whittaker. Sing-
ing “O Jesus the Giver.” President M.
I. Horne presided. She said she felt sorry
to see so few here this afternoon, and
thought the sisters could afford to come to-
gether every fourteen days to worship God,
without the Spirit of God we could do noth-
ing. Said we could stay at home and
delve into work until we would lose the
desire for spiritual food. Spoke of the
saying of the ancient apostles about the
last days; read from the book of Timothy
concerning these prophecies and felt that
this chapter applied to us at this time.
She felt sorry there were so many Sabbath
breakers as there were, and exhorted the
sisters to be united, humble and prayerful.
Said it was the Saints that had to open up
this wonderful Western land, and explained
how the Lord kept this barren land in this
condition until the time came for the
Saints to come here, and now how He had
blessed the land and caused plenty of water
to spring forth where once there was none,
felt we were greatly blessed. Urged the
sisters to cultivate the Spirit of the Lord.
The speaker felt it was a pleasure to serve
the Lord and do His will. Prayed the
Spirit of the Lord might be poured out
upon us this afternoon to bless us and
build us up.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson felt we should
not let the moments go to waste. It was a
privilege to have the opportunity of meet-
ing here. The speaker said we should
show by our presence here our appreciation
of our noble teacher, Sister Horne; spoke
on family prayer and the necessity of it.
Thought if we could keep ourselves right
our influence for good would be great;
knew there was much responsibility on the
mothers. Said to guard our actions and
our words and prayed the Spirit of the
Lord might burn within our hearts con-
tinually.
	Sister Smallie spoke of her appreciation
of the Gospel and of her visit to Rexburg,
and said they were all a good, clean people,
that she never heard a naughty word or
saw a bad action, there was not the pride
there that there is here. Spoke of the
United Order, and felt that the Spirit of
the Lord was more to be desired than any
thing else.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she could
testify to the truthfulness of the remarks of
Sister Smallie, for she had known her
for many years and knew what she said
came from her heart. Said the blessings of
the Gospel were many, and felt to thank
her heavenly Father for prophets and the
many gifts that were in the Church. Said
these meetings were the happiest meetings
she attended and felt to bless Sister Smallie.
Asked God to bless us all.
	Sister Crow made a few remarks and
spoke of the things the Lord had blessed
her with, that she worked hard but felt to
put her trust in the Lord. Said she was
blessed with a family of good children;
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Alder bore testimony these meet-
ings were organized twenty-seven years
ago by President Young in this building. 
She was here at the time Sister Horne was
president and had seven counselors. Sis-

[Column 2]
ters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M. Kim-
ball were the only surviving counselors.
Said the object of these meetings was to
instruct the Relief Society presidents and
those who felt like attending. It was here
that the precious jewels were dropped from
the lips of our cherished and dear sisters
who were so gifted and prepared to teach
us.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke of meeting
one of the Christian Endeavor ladies, and
she asked them what their object was.
She told her their object was to do good
and relieve the poor. They then entered
into a conversation and she explained the
principles of the Gospel. The speaker felt
impressed to speak of the Sunday excur-
sions, and how greatly they were growing
in our midst.
	President Horne felt we had been blest
in coming together and said much had
been taught, also spoke of our recent
visitors, the Christian Endeavors. Made
some excellent closing remarks, and said
this meeting would be adjourned for four
weeks owing to the Jubilee. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.
	IT is stated that women control $130,-
000,000 of stock in the national banks in
this country, and 145,000,000 in the State
banks.
	THE Countess of Aberdeen, president of
the International Council of Women and of
the National Council of Canadian Women,
is now in England and is endeavoring to
organize a National Council of Women for
Great Britain and Ireland.


[Column 1]
		Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
		
