BY CLIO.
	FLATTERING reports came in of John’s
devotion to the cause, and his success at
winning converts, which was of course a
great comfort to all who knew of his pre-
vious career. And then came the news
that he had finished his labors and was on
the way home at the head of a large com-
pany of emigrants; but it was not known
just when they would reach the valley. A
small company of men with wagons and
provisions had been detailed to go out and
meet the weary travelers, and were already
on their way.
	The happiness of Grace at this news was
somewhat tempered with doubt as to how
her old lover would feel and act toward her.
She had sought bravely enough to carry
out her plans of independence. One after
another she had accepted the attentions of
numerous suitors, but the end had always
been the same. As soon as they showed
any disposition to become lovable, she had
turned against them in spite of herself.
And here she was, twenty-three years of
age and unmarried; with even her affections
unentangled, except with what she called
her “Memories of early girlhood.”
	She sat alone upon the porch step one
September evening enjoying the soft radi-
ance of the harvest moon, and her thoughts
strayed to the oft-present subject of John
Heplar and his return. She wondered how
he would look, how he would act, whether
he would remember their old friendship; or
if he would still be cold and indifferent, as
before he went away. To her credit be it
said, that all such thoughts were strictly
confidential. Outwardly there was no
danger, and no thought of giving an inch,
of betraying by word or sign her feelings,
unless he took the initiative.
	The click of the gate-latch recalled her
attention and she rose to her feet, for up
the long garden path came a strange figure,
and she was alone, She waited expectant-
ly, and her heart almost stood still as he
stood before her, silent, and as though ex-


[Column 1]
pecting her to recognize him. Her heart,
unruly member that it was, decided not to
stop, but gave a great lurch and thumped
lustily enough when a low, earnest, fami-
liar voice exclaimed:
	“Gracie.”—
	The old baby name, spoken in the same
old fashion. She would have known it
among ten thousand!
	“John—John Heplar—is it you? When
did you arrive?”
	“It is I Grace, and no mistake. I got
in about two hours ago. I left the com-
pany some miles back and came ahead
with one of our Elders who is sick. Are
you glad to see me, Grace?”
	She could not trust herself to speak, so
great was her surprise and emotion, but
she raised her eyes to his face, bright with
glistening tears, and held out both her
hands in a sudden impulsive manner. 
	He drew her toward him, looked into
her eyes, and, as if satisfied with what he
found there, folded her in his arms and
kissed her tenderly.
	“Gome into the arbor, dear, I want to
talk to you,” he whispered. And hand in
hand they walked into the old trysting
place, and sat down upon the old home-
made lounge, hallowed by many associa-
tions in the past.
	“Do you remember, Grace, our last
private conversation?”
	Did she! as if every word was not en-
graved on her heart. If he only knew
how many times she had rehearsed the
scene, and wondered if in her self-righteous-
ness she had not dealt harshly with her
wayward lover, he would not have asked
her the question. She did not speak her
thoughts but only said, “Yes, I remember
very well.”
	“And has the old love died out entirely,
Grace, for I believe you loved me in those
old days a little.” As she only hid her
face in her hands, he went on, the hungry
pleading of his long starved heart manifest-
ing itself in his voice.
	“Was I mistaken then, Grace, and am I
to be again driven forth, a prey to the de-
mon of unrequited love?”
	‘‘Oh no, no—dear John—I loved you
then—I love you now, dearer and dearer--
but I thought—”
	“Go on, you thought what—”
	“That you no longer loved me—you see
you were so cold and distant—I thought,
I thought I had offended you beyond resti-
tution.”
	“Grace, darling, that was the turning
point in my life. You did not know dear,
that the vision of this moment has been
my guiding star since that time.”
	“No, I did not know, or I would have
been spared many uneasy moments. But
how pray, did you under existing circum-
stances, dare to conjure up such a picture?”
	“The conjuring was none of mine. God
has been very good to us to preserve us
both for this happiness. Darling, it is His
work. Would you like to hear the story?”
	“Anything—anything, John, for you
are so good and I am so happy.” And
nestling contentedly in the strong arms of
her lover, Grace Alison listened in wonder
and gratitude to the tale of his sufferings
and trials, and their happy culmination.
	“Well you see, when I left you that day
I was the most miserable being on earth. I
could see plainly that one of two things
must happen; either I must lose you, or
bring my life in accordance with that which

[Column 2]
you firmly believed right. The first was
absolute misery; the last I could not do
without conviction. I did not know what
to do or where to go.”
	“Poor boy,” murmured Grace, compas-
sionately, and was rewarded by a kiss for
her sympathy.
	“I wandered about I don’t know where,
and was finally taken in tow by Brother
Harper, who lectured me soundly and gave
me some practical advise, which I resolved
to follow as soon as possible. After he left
me, I wandered on till I came to the river.
Here everything was still and quiet. I
sought out a secluded nook, and there I
tried to pray. Oh Grace I tremble now
when I think of that prayer, it was so bold,
so presumptuous, anything but what a
prayer should be. But I did not tremble
then; I was desperate. I had tried to pray
before, and had received no visible answer.
I was determined to have one now if such a
thing could be. I expect I should have
repeated my experiment had not a couple
of cows routed me, making me think I had
been discovered. I lay down on the bank,
and finally fell asleep. Then it was that
my prayer was so mercifully answered. I
found myself in a bare and dreary plain
which appeared smooth enough in general,
but which as I plodded along, multiplied
obstacles of every name and nature. There
were sticks and stones, briers and thorns,
fallen logs, narrow, deep ravines with mud-
dy water running in them. Sometimes
there was rain and snow, lightning and
thunder. There were multitudes of peo-
ple of all sorts and conditions; some plod-
ding on my way; some going backward,
some to the right or left. Yet in my par-
ticular path I was alone.
	I think I should have given up many
times and turned back, had it not been that
far ahead I could see what looked like
green fields and gardens, which I felt
would be far preferable to the surrounding
desert.
	Well I plodded along and finally reached
the entrance to a green and pleasant valley,
bounded on both sides by green and wooded
hills and extending for a great distance.
At this place I found waiting to accompany
me—whom do you think?
	“I haven’t the remotest idea,” said Grace
feeling a warm glow over her whole body,
belying her tongue.
	“Who indeed but my own dear Grace,
with extended hands and a smile of wel-
come for the wanderer. Grace I have
reached the end of that weary road; I have
entered the beautiful valley. I have found
you waiting with your welcome of love.
The rest of the journey we will take to-
gether. Hand in hand we traversed this
valley together, turning aside now and
then to gather a beautiful flower or ex-
amine some object of interest. We passed
villages and towns and mingled with many
people, and at last found our forward view
obstructed by the sight of a beautiful white
city in the distance. We traveled the in-
tervening distance and in due time entered
the city together. That was the end of my
dream, the interpretation was made known
to me, and that dear, is what has helped
me to overcome some of my evil propensi-
ties, and bring me to my present happiness.
Can you not see the Divine hand in all
this dearest?”
	“I can indeed, dear John; how thankful
we ought to be, and how true, that we may
indeed reach the beautiful goal shown in

[Column 3]
your vision. My own prayers have been
answered too, in that your “heart of gold”
which I always knew you possessed, has
been made patent to the world. I wonder
if such happiness will last.”
	“We shall be as happy as we deserve,
without doubt, and I hope we shall de-
serve a great deal. Let us go now and see
what our mamma’s and papa’s have to say
to this arrangement. We must not forget
them in our new-found happiness.”
	“I should say not; for who among all
our little world will so rejoice at our good
fortune as those who have toiled for us so
long and borne with our frailties so patient-
ly.”
	Evidently they found no opposition in
these directions, for a few months later
there was the happiest kind of a wedding,
to which all the town were bidden. There
was no finery and but little ceremony.
Such Babylonish things had not yet fol-
lowed the exiles to their retreat; but there
was warm hospitality and fraternal feeling,
and plenty of good things to eat. The en-
tertainment wound up with a grand ball in
the evening in which young and old trip-
ped “the light fantastic toe,” until mid-
night, when all decorously sought their
own homes.
	Dear reader, all this transpired more than
thirty-seven years ago. The happy sim-
plicity of those days has given place to a
more stately and ceremonious mode of life,
since “civilization” has found us out.
Many, many dear friends who figured in
those scenes have migrated to the Silent
Land. Many, many new friends have
joined us from their bright former home,
that they too might enjoy the same privi-
leges as we enjoy. Thousands have gath-
ered from every land to help swell our
numbers, and the little handful of refugees
has grown into a mighty host. It is well.
It is as we knew it would be, and as we
know it will continue to be, only in a great-
er degree.
	Time has sown many silver threads
among the brown and golden locks of our
hero and heroine. Children came to their
little home, grew up and began life for
themselves. Grandchildren have followed
in their wake, and if their good luck con-
tinues, great-grandchildren will also “rise
up and call them blessed.” They have
known many joys, but they have not es-
caped all sorrows. Yet true to God, each
other and their convictions of truth, they
are well on their way toward the Beautiful
City, and hope to enter it, hand in hand.
Their love has never waxed cold, and as
for Grace, each passing year has strength-
ened her faith in her husband’s “Heart of
Gold.”
