SACRAMENTO LETTER.
Dear Sister:
	YOUR dear, kind and helpful letter receiv-
ed and I take pleasure in replying the best
can under my present circumstances. I
feel I cannot do you the justice you deserve,
but I deemed it necessary to give you the
report you desired, and as far as we could
we have done so. Our last meeting was a
good one. We always meet the first
Tuesday after Fast Sunday. There were
six present at our last meeting and I was
so glad for I need the sisters to help and
strengthen me. I feel so weak as presi-
dent, as I have never had any kind of ex-
perience in any organization; but we are
doing the best we can and hope to see the
Society grow and prosper. The six mem-
bers are always present, some are ill often
and can attend but seldom, while others
never attend any meeting, but I think this
may be the case everywhere. Then for
our encouragement we have several investi-
gating who seem so true, honest and near
the kingdom, I feel sure we shall have a
strong Society in the near future.
	Our dear sister, Mary Christenson, is a
Saint in very deed. She is at present very
ill, the day before the Society met last she
went and called upon all the sick and aged
and over did herself and was taken ill that
night. She is almost seventy years of age,
and so bright and ambitious I do not know
what I should do without her counsel and
assistance. We missed her much at our

[Column 2]
meeting, and desire to give her especial
mention. Please insert this in the report
f you will, she actually does more for the
branch than she is able, and outshines
us younger ones in ambition.
	Dear sister you say you would love to
hear some of my experiences. I will say
I should enjoy telling you and will some
other time, God willing, but it would take
too much time now as every moment of my
time belongs to others. Yet I will say I
feel as one of the favored women of the
Father, I saw one of the Nephites and
learned the Gospel twenty years ago, but
did not understand it. I was professing
the Methodist faith at that time. Four
years ago I had a vision of a temple and
angels and was told things that made me
dissatisfied with my Church, which had
changed to the Baptist. I sought every-
where for the true church, and religion for
ten years, and when I became weak and
exhausted and still more dissatisfied and
almost discouraged, I went in secret prayer
and plead with my Heavenly Father. I
could not find Him among the churches as
satisfying to my soul. Elder Joseph
Shepherd of Paris, Idaho, came that day,
and when I heard him I understood the
Nephite and my vision, and for two years
I have had bliss complete, trials without
number, heavy burdens, but like Paul I
thank God heartily for them, for it brings 
me nearer to the Saints and Zion.
	Much sickness has been in my family for
years, and all was summed up in one hor- 
ror a month ago. I have had a tumor in
my breast for some time and for months it
has been very painful. The doctors told
me to have it taken off in haste, make no
delay, and were planning to do so; but I
remembered God says in His word: “I
have delivered thee out of six troubles and
I will bring thee out of the seventh,” and I
fasted and prayed, and the dear Elders
administered to me and it went away
immediately. Praise be to His holy name!
I feel like giving glory to such a Father,
that would rather give his children “bread
than a stone.”
	Sister Lydia Phelps of Salt Lake, former-
ly of this city, aged seventy-one, has just
come to visit me and I am so glad to see
and welcome her. She is the daughter of
William Brewster, and her husband was
William Waterman Phelps, his father W.
W. Phelps, wrote many of our beautiful
hymns. She has just read your letter to
me, and she says, “Give them my love
and say how I would love to be there.”
	Now dear sister this is not as I would
like to have written, and as I said before I
would have given you an account in full if
time permitted. I am also a busy woman,
going continually among the sick and weak,
for it gives me strength to bear others
burdens; the Savior bears mine. “I cast
my cares upon Him, for He careth for me.”
I send love to Sister Zina Young and the
Relief Society. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, with love
			FANNY H. THACKHAM.
MINUTES OF MEETING.
	Minutes of the Sacramento Relief Soci-
ety held at Sister Thackham’s, September 7,
1897, President Thackham presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet.” Prayer was
offered by President Thackham. Singing
“O ye mountains high.” Enrolled on
books eleven, present six. Minutes of pre-

[Column 3]
vious meeting read and approved as cor-
rected.
	Sister Smither remarked that she was
pleased with the work of the Relief Soci-
ety and thought there was much good for
us to do. She hoped the Society would
progress, and still continue to do good.
	Sister Ella Smith remarked that she
thought the Society was very good, and
hoped it would continue.
	Sister Iwa Adams remarked that the Re-
lief Society was a necessity to the Church,
that to be good Christians we must have
charity and help the members that are in
need in any way we can.
	Sister May Sarll hoped the Society Would
continue and be the means cf doing much
good.
	President Thackham was glad to hear
the expressions of the sisters, and to see
the interest that they took in the Society.
She believed Joseph Smith had said,
“Every virtuous woman should belong to
the Relief Society.” She was pleased to
see so many present and she felt strength-
ened to hear the testimonies of the sisters,
and advised all to call on the sisters who
were unable to attend, to encourage and
comfort them as much as possible. She
felt strengthened by the encouragment
given her by the interest the members
showed, and she thanked God for the help
and aid of her Counselors.
	While sewing on the quilt the members
had a very pleasant time in conversing on
the good of the Society. After, singing
“Do what is right” the meeting was
closed with prayer by Sister Smith.
