BIRTHDAY ENTERTAINMENT.

	THE Central Board of the Primary Asso-
ciations, Mrs. Louie B. Felt president,
planned a very excellent entertainment in
honor of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers to be held
in the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall on
the evening of her birthday, October 4, in
this city. Preparations had been going on
for some time previous and the affair proved
a perfect success.
	Mrs. Rogers is known throughout Zion as
the originator of the Primary Associations,
which have been such a blessing and bene-
fit not only to the children, but to many of
the parents; whatever is a spiritual or a
moral uplifting is a blessing to the world,
and this Association reaches to the little
ones, or should do, in each ward in every
Stake of Zion.
	The hall was beautifully and tastefully
decorated in every available place with
flowers and Autumn leaves and boughs
which gave a charming effect, and the
platform and tables looked very attractive.
Mrs. Felt, her counselor, Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and her secretary, Miss May Ander-
son and others associated with them, receiv-
ed the guests and managed the program in
a very creditable manner. Where there
were so many things that deserved men-
tion it is rather difficult to select, but the
delightful paper prepared by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and read by Mrs. Maggie Bassett
certainly should be favorably noticed. It
was a history of the work in brief giving
honor where honor was due, and was writ-
ten in a very pleasing style and read in a
way that all could appreciate. The paper
will, of course, be published and preserved
on record. Mrs. Lucy A. Clark had written
a sweet song which was sung during the
evening and was one of the pleasing fea-
tures of the entertainment.
	Mrs. Rogers, the recipient of the honors,
was a picture and a study. It was pleasant
to look at her as she partly reclined in her 
easy chair (for she came from a sick bed to
be present,) she was most becomingly attir- 
ed and her face always serene in repose was
an index to the soul within, pure and spirit-
ual. She received and responded to the
congratulations showered upon her with
that ease of manner characteristic of the
Spencers. That she was surprised when
she learned all that had been done was ap-
parent, yet there was no outburst, nor
special demonstration.
	The children who took part in the pro-
gram (and it would not have been complete
without children) rendered their exercises
in a very satisfactory and delightful way,
and the best of selections had been made.
	Mrs. Rogers had for some time been de-
sirous of publishing her life and also the
origin, development and progress of the

[Column 2]
Primary Associations, and had collected to-
gether the material and written the manu-
script, and the Central Board, under the
management of its president, Mrs Felt,
have raised the means to secure the pub-
lication desired. Elder Joseph Felt an-
nounced the fact to the audience by reading
a letter from the publishers, Geo. Q. Can-
non Sons and Co. This is the most fitting
tribute that could be bestowed by the Asso-
ciation upon one whose inspired thought
brought about such spiritual growth in the
little ones, the children of the Saints.
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
were rendered and gifts of lovely flowers
were given and delicious refreshments were
served by beautiful young girls, and Presi-
dent Felt and her associates must have
been highly gratified by the good spirit and
feeling that was manifest in all that was
said and done.


[Column 1]
