COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	ON the 22nd of June, it being the anni-
versary of the birthday of Bishop Hunter,
a reception was given by Brother Orson
Brown and his wife Mattie, in honor of
their mother, Sister Phoebe Fife, and the
rest of the aged sisters living in the place.
Among those present were Sister Mary
Eyring, President of the Relief Society of
Juarez Stake, and Sister Cynthia Stowell,
her counselor. The party convened at
one o'clock and spent the time until three
o'clock in pleasant chat on past reminis-
cences, then all retired to a large dining
room and partook of a sumptuous repast,
after which all returned to the pleasant
parlor where the organ sounded with
lively notes by Miss Jennie Galbraith.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Phoebe Fife. The old folks sang "O My
Father." Prayer was offered by Brother
Brown. Singing "We thank Thee O, God
for a prophet." A poem was then read by
Miss Jennie Galbraith which was written
for the occasion by Sister S. T. Brimhall,
which awakened in the minds of those
present many fond remembrances of the
past.
	The eldest lady in the house, Sister Peter-
son, then sang in her native tongue, Dan-
ish, her voice was sweet though trembling


with age. Sister Shonsou spoke of her ex-
perience and of the goodness of God. Sis-
ter Annie Bowman sang a hymn in Ger-
man. Sister Harriet Whipple, aged 73 sang
in English. 
	President Mary B. Eyring recited a 
poem in German and gave the translation 
in English. Sisters Stoell, Hawkins, 
Thompson, Holt and others spoke of their
experiences and their joy in the Latter-day
work. Sister Hawkins led in prayer, then 
all arose and administered to Sister Fife
who had long been afflicted with rheuma-
tism. Sister Susan Martineau spoke of her
experience and stated that she saw the 
burning of the Nauvoo Temple. 
	President Phoebe Fife told of many of
her experiences. She was baptized by 
W. R. Huntington and led out of the 
water by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and 
had often gone to the Relief Society meet-
ings in Nauvoo with her mother, and heard
the Prophet’s teachings to the sisters. Sis-
ter Fife is the president of our Relief Soci-
ety in Juarez and is greatly beloved by all 
the Saints here. Her counsels are full 
of wisdom, she is a friend to the poor and
those who are in need of encouragement.
She was a pioneer in Utah and she has 
been a pioneer in Mexico; her whole life
has been devoted to the interests of the 
work of God. She is cared for in her old 
age by her son Brother Brown, who spares
neither pains nor means to make her happy
and comfortable. 
	At the close of the meeting the old folks 
sang “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction was offered. 
						S. T. B.


