THE GOOD SHEPHERD.

	DO we not read in Holy Writ that He
who scattered Israel would gather them as
a shepherd does his flock? And again we
read in Ecclesiastes 3rd chapter: it reads
thus: "There is a time and a season for
every purpose under the sun. A time to be
born and a time to die. A time to plant
and a time to pluck up that which is plant-
ed. A time to cast away stones and a
time to gather stones. A time to embrace
and a time to refrain from embracing," etc.
	Did not the angel Moroni tell the Pro-
phet Joseph upon showing him the gold
plates in the hill Cumorah, "It is not time
to take them out yet for four years; but
come here and meet me once a year until it
is time to take them." That Joseph did,
so we read in his history. Does not this
agree with Ecclesiastes, the preacher, the
son of King David of Jerusalem, who said
there is a time for every purpose under the
heavens?
	Accordingly there must be a time to
gather Israel. Now I would ask has that
time arrived? I did not think so fifty-five
years ago, when told that a Mormon preach-
er had come to Ithaca to preach the new
doctrine; would I go and hear him tell us
of a prophet and a new bible lately dis-
covered?
	Oh no, why should I since the Savior
was our teacher, and the New Testament
was our guide? I was satisfied, believing
as I did the Episcopal church to be nearer


the Apostolic church than any other, is not
this sufficient? Prophets are no longer
needed since the Savior came, and He is
our teacher. Is not our Bible sufficient for
our salvation?
	I had no curiosity on the subject, but my
friend Mrs. Monroe, was so highly interest-
ed in the preacher she insisted on my
going to hear him, saying, “You know
the Bible tells us that ‘He who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool.’ ”
“Yes of course it is so. I will go and
hear him myself, but do not expect to see
as he does.” I went and found the preach-
er, Elder James Blakesley, preached Bible
doctrine to the very letter. I could see no
fault, and on going several times concluded
that every one who believed the Bible
would accept the Gospel exactly as Jesus
taught it, to be prepared for the Millenium.
	Did He not say “In vain ye cry unto
me: Lord, Lord, and do not the things
which I say." He also said "My sheep
know my voice and a stranger will they
not follow.” Now what does St. John tell
us about this good Shepherd?
	Please read the 1st chapter, 9th verse, it
reads: "He was the true light, lighting
every one that cometh into the world. The
world was made by Him, and the world
knew Him not. He came to His own and
His own received him not. But as many
as received Him, to them gave He power to
become the sons of God, even to them who
believed on His name.”
	13th verse: “He was not born of blood
nor of the will of the flesh nor the will of
man, but of God. And the Lord was
made flesh and dwelt among us, and we be-
held the glory of the only begotten of the
Father, full of grace and truth.”
	Now please tell me why did the Deity
come down and dwell in the flesh among
hnmanity? Was it not to organize His
Kingdom on the earth, and to teach the
human family how to gain the victory over
this fallen nature of ours? He grew up
from infancy to manhood and had a taste of
very bitter things that flesh is heir to; did
He not? Showing us at the same time the
higher law, which is “Peace on earth, and
good will to all mankind." Nor did He
value His own life nor the lives of those
who were sent to help Him accomplish this
great work. Every one of His apostles
were slain excepting John the revelator, be-
cause he met with that change which is
equivalent with death. They had no fear
of death, for Jesus came to bring to pass
the resurrection of the dead.
	This life is short, but it will prepare all
who are faithful in keeping the laws of
God for a life which has no end. How
important then that we give strict heed to
the laws given by the Savior of mankind,
the Shepherd of our souls, who never for-
gets any only those who forget Him, or
choose some other rule of action. For to
all He gives their agency, besides giving
them every faculty of mind and body they
possess. Yet when they serve Him it
must be in spirit and in truth to be accepta-
ble to Him.
