WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL
OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.
	[Submittad for the approval of the
National Organizations and the Local
Councils affiliated with the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States.]
	Preliminary Program for the Annual Ex-
ecutive Session of the National Council of
the Women of the United States, October
25, 26, 27 and 28, 1897, at Nashville,
Tennessee, under the auspices of the Wo-
man’s Department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial and International Exposition.
Monday, October 25, 9:30 a. m. Meeting
of the Executive (open only to Officers of
the National Council, Presidents and Dele-
gates of the National Organization and of
Local Councils affiliated with the National
Councils, members of the Cabinet and
Patrons.)
	Programme for Business Meeting, October
25, 9:30 a. m. 5 minutes: Roll call of
Association and Local Councils affiliated
with the National Council. 5 minutes:
Minutes of last Executive Session read by
the Recording Secretary. 5 minutes:
Annual financial statement by the Treasur-
er. Discussion upon the following ques-
tions: (1) Shall the next Triennial, which
is to be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?
(2) Upon what basis of representation may
Councils embracing two or more states be
admitted into the National Council? (3)
Shall the National Council employ an
organizer for constant work in the field in
organizing Local Councils? (4) shall a
Committee of Information be formed whose-
function it shall be to correspond with the
officers of the National Association not yet
affiliated with the Council, to the end that
an opportunity maybe secured to communi-
cate information respecting the Council to
such associations?
	Monday, October 25, 3 p. m. Formal
Opening of the Council. 5 minutes: Silent
prayer. 5 minutes: Address of Welcome
by the Chairman of the Convocation Com-
mittee, Margaret J. Weakley. 5 minutes:
Response by the Vice-President at Large of
the Council, Rev. Anna H. Shaw. 5
minutes: Announcement of Local arrange-
ments made by Convocation Committee of
the Woman’s Department of the Tennessee
Centennial and International Exposition.
GENERAL SUBJECT.
	The Work of Local Councils. Ten
minute reports from each of the following
Local Councils represented by President or
Delegate: Portland, Maine; Akron, Ohio;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Providence, Rhode
Island; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Quincy,
Illinois; Memphis, Tennessee; Cleveland,
Ohio; Maryville, Tennessee; Bloomington,
Indiana and all other Local Councils affili-
ated with the National Council.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Local
Councils more efficiently co-operate with
Municipal Governments? Discussion on
the address. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
RECEPTION MONDAY EVENING.
	Tuesday, October 26, 9:30 a. m. Ten
minute reports from such of the following
National organizations affiliated with the
Council as are represented by a President or
Delegate: National Christian League for
the Promotion of Social Purity. National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society.
The Florence Crittenden Mission. Ameri-
can Anti-Vivisection Society. The Nation-

[Column 2]
al Council of Jewish Women. National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.
Woman's Foreign Mission Union of Friends.
	Address, 30 minutes: Opportunity and
Obligation of the National Council to Pro-
mote the Growth of Religious Unity. Dis-
cussion of address: Participants limited to
five minutes each. Tuesday, October 26,
3 p. m. Ten minute reports from such of
the following National organizations as are
represented by a President or Delegate:
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association. Illinois Industrial School for
Girls (National Character) Wimodaughsis.
National Woman’s Relief Society. Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers.
Ladies of the Maccabees.10 minutes:
Special report of Delegate to the Annual
Session of the National Council of Women
of Canada, held at Halifax in June.
	Address, 30 minutes: Improved Dress,
Annie White Johnson, chairman of the
committee on dress, followed by illustrated
exhibit in charge of Madame Manvell.
	Tuesday, Oct. 26, 8 p. m. Ten minute
reports from the following organizations
represented by a President or a Delegate:
National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Woman’s Republican Asso-
ciation of the United States. National
Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. Woman’s Relief Corps of the
Grand Army of the Republic.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the National Council to National Govern-
mental Affairs.
	Address, 30 minutes: The National
Council as an Agent in Promoting National
Patriotism. Report of the Conference of
the International Council held in London
in July.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the International Council to International
Governmental Affairs. Wednesday, Oct-
ober 27, 9:30 a. m. Ten minute statements
by each member of the Cabinet present.
Subject: Her own Conception of the Sig-
nificance and Scope of the Work belonging
to her own Portfolio.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Patrons
be Rendered Helpful in the Diffusion of
the Council Idea? Discussion by Patrons
present. Participants limited to five
minutes each. 10 minutes: Report of the
Universal Peace Union.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Council as an
Agent in promoting Peace and Arbitration.
Discussion. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
	N. B.—Wednesday afternoon free for the
enjoyment of courtesies which the Commit-
tee on Convocation desire to extend.
	Wednesday Evening. Reception given
by the officers of the National Council of
Women.
	Thursday Morning, October 28. Meet-
ing of the Executive. (Open only to
officers of the National Council, Presidents
and Delegates of National Organizations
belonging to the National Council, Presi-
dents and Delegates of Local Councils
affiliated with the National Council, mem-
bers of the Cabinet and Patrons.)
	N. B.—This session will be held at the
Maxwell House, which will be the head-
quarters of the Council during the Nash-
ville Convention.
	Special Business: Action upon the
Revised Constitution. Presentation and
discussion of the reports of Special and
Standing Committees.

[Column 3]
GENERAL INFORMATION.
	For ladies not wishing to stop at the
Maxwell House, comfortable quarters can
be secured at satisfactory rates in private
boarding-houses. Information upon this
subject is volunteered by the Chairman of
the Convocation Committee, Mrs. Margar-
et J. Weakley, whose address is 117 North
Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	The rates made by the railroads to and
from Nashville during the Exposition are
much lower than the rates obtained by con-  
ventions. This advantage is, of course,
available to all persons attending the
Executive Session of the National Council.
	The importance of this Executive Ses-
sion can hardly be over estimated, and it
becomes the duty of each National Organ-
ization and Local Council connected with
the National Council to take its share in
making the session worthy of the Council
and of the distinguished auspices under
which this session will be held. This
Executive Session affords the Council the
opportunity to present what is popularly
known as the “Council Idea,’’ in a section
of the country not yet reached by it; and
before audiences that will be representative
of all that is best, particularly in the South-
ern States. It also gives every member of
the Council an opportunity to present its
particular work to an audience which will
carry a knowledge of it, and the inspira-
tion to be derived from it, to all parts of
the great and growing South. 
	This preliminary programme is sent out
in the hope that the important subjects pro-
posed for discussion may be considered by
Local Councils and, as far as possible, by
members of the official board of National
organizations before the session is convened.
	N. B.—Members of the Official Boards
are asked to consider these matters, because
it will not be possible to bring them before
their respective organizations.  
	For all information concerning the local
arrangements at Nashville, inquiries may
be addressed to Mrs. Margaret J. Weakley,
117 North Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	Members of the Cabinet, Patrons of the
National Council and Local Councils are
requested to address any inquiries or sug-
gestions respecting the programme to Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, whose address is
given below.
	All other persons interested in the Nash-
ville meeting are requested to address
inquiries and suggestions to the Chairman
of the Committee, Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Vice-President at Large of the National
Council of Women, and Chairman of the
Programme Committee of the Nashville
Meeting, Wianno, Cape Cod, Mass.
	Rachel Foster Avery, Member of the
Cabinet. Hannah J. Solomon, President
of the National Council of Jewish Women.
Annie White Johnson Chairman of Com-
mittee on Dress. May Wright Sewall,
Member of Cabinet, 633 (new) North Penn-
sylvania Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.


THE three leading newspapers of Nash-
ville employ women reporters. Miss Walk-
er represents the Sun, Mrs. Duncan the
American and Miss Porterfield the Banner.
All are able and do credit to their calling.


