LETTER FROM CANADA.

Editor Exponent:
	THINKING a few lines from our far distant
home to yourself and my dear sisters, as
my interest in them and yourself does not
diminish with distance, I will assume that
your feelings for us are reciprocated.
	Our journey was pleasant and unevent-
ful, but it required a struggle on my part to 
leave my dear mother, under the existing 
circumstances that seemed almost impera-
tive for me to remain with her; but the
presence of my son Joseph I felt would 
somewhat palliate our separation.
	It is needless to state the meeting at this 
end of the road was a joyful one. It was
with feelings of deep humility and grati-
tude that I received the love and respect 
and he rty welcome of my many friends
here.
	As you know, Sister Josephine Booth
of Provo accompanied me home, and it was
a source of satisfaction that nature had
clothed herself in her loveliest robes of
green and verdant flowers to mark her
arrival and pre-dispose her in favor of our
far northern home as agreeably as possible.
	She has already commenced to fulfill my
anticipations with regard to the blessing
she would be to our dear girls here, who
have not the advantages afforded them, as
in many of the larger and older cities.
	We have introduced a Physical Culture
class in our Young Ladies Association em-
bracing the course as given in our new 
guide.
	The Relief Society is still looking after
the interests and welfare spiritually and
temporally of the sisters of this locality,
there are comparatively few who require
financial assistance, but there are many who
are willing and able to assist in sickness,
of which we have very little, or aid in the
many benevolent enterprises to keep means
in our treasury.
	We have organized one new society in
the last year that is composed principally of
young married sisters, who do themselves
the favor of being active members in both
Relief Society and Improvement Associa-
tions. ***
	Yesterday was our national holiday
which was celebrated in a primitive and 
hearty manner, as it was in Utah long
years ago. Speeches, songs, firing of guns,
brass band, hearty good humor, were lead-
ing features of the day. At night the
Pioneer Dramatic Company gave a spirited 
and enjoyable entertainment, with two

[Column 2]
plays entitled “Among the Breakers” and
“The Dentist’s Clerk.”
	It is a matter of surprise the amount of 
talent and excellent ability that seems to be
the natural inheritance of the children of
the Saints. Our Base Ball team played a
match game with the team from Leth-
bridge, in which local talent scored a de-
cided success.
	We have been blessed with copious
showers of rain, which give us almost an
assurance of excellent crops and ample
food for the coming winter for our stock
on the range.
	The sisters join in love and esteem for
yourself and members of the Central Board, 
and hope at some future time they may
have the pleasure of a visit from them in person.
	Ever wishing the EXPONENT success,
I remain,,		Your sister
