LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Aug 7, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding Singing “For the
strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Sing-
ing “’Mid scenes of confusion.” Minutes

[Column 2]
of previous meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne said we had just had a
very busy time of it with the Jubilee.
Spoke of the seducing sptrits that were
abroad trying to darken the minds of the
people. This was one of the signs of the
times, quoted sayings of the Savior, and
spoke against Sabbath breaking. Said we
should teach our children self-denial and
curtail them in so much indulgence, see
that they were not out late at night. Ex-
horted the sisters to store their minds with
knowledge out of good books and urged
the mothers to set a good example for their
children. Said the more we sought after
the Spirit of God we should be blessed.
	Sister Cobb felt the sisters who met here
Saturday after Saturday were the salt of
the earth, also those who were trying to
keep the commandments of God. Felt
they were the sisters who were humble and
prayerful and those who had suffered.
Felt to testify that those whom the Lord
loves He chasteneth, and that some day we
would know the whys and wherefores. Said
her work lay with the children and that she
had been blessed in it. 
	Sister M. O. Brown hoped we might so
live that the destroying angel might pass
us by.
	Sister Armeda Snow Young was thank-
ful that she had the light of the Gospel.
She heard Sister Eliza R. Snow say once in
a meeting that her constant prayer was
that she might never apostatize. Prayed God
might bless our aged counselor and teacher
President Horne, that she might live many
years yet.
	Sister Rawlings said she was seventy-
three years old and could see to thread a
needle without glasses, felt she had much
to be grateful for. Bore her testimony.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony. Sister Mary Ann Hardy said
we must ever be on the watch and be
prayerful She felt she had much to be
thankful for and bore her testimony.
	Singing “Praise to the man.” A Sis-
ter in the congregation felt it a great privil-
ege to come to these meetings, she came a
long way to get here but was blessed in
coming. She felt thankful the Lord had
opened her way to come to Zion.
	Sister Butterworth felt the adversary was
abroad trying to lead the young away. 
Said she was the mother of eighteen child-
ren, but the Lord had seen fit to take four-
teen of them, felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in it.
	Sister Mary Silver felt thankful she had a 
standing in the Church and hoped she
might remain faithful. 
	Sister Wright felt it a duty as well as a
privilege to speak of the goodness of God to
her. She felt we had much to be thankful
for, and spoke of fasting and prayer, felt
sorry to see so few here, she had come
eighteen miles to be here today.
	Sister Nunn testified how she had been
healed by faith. Sister Cooper told how
her prayers had been answered in regard to
her son who had been weak in the faith,
but now had lately been baptized along
with his family, and said she felt like re-
lating this for the encouragement of others.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
spoke encouragingly to the mothers in re-
gard to their children. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing “This God is the 
God we adore.” Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
