	MISS MARY ALLEN THOMPSON is chair-
man of the Press Committee for the wo-
man’s department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial Exposition at Nashville.
	MISS GRACE E. DODGE of New York,
the founder of working girls’ clubs, is
spending the summer at Bar Harbor. Miss
Dodge is very busy with plans for educa-
tional work.
	FRANCES E. WILLARD writes of Mrs.
Livermore’s autobiography: “It may be
said without exaggeratiou that no woman
in America has lived a more symmetrical or
a more helpful life than Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore.”
	MRS. ELIZA ARCHARD CONNER is a
member of the editorial staff of the
American Press Association. It is said that
her paragraphs about women find a place
in eight thousand papers.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS
WARD is at her moorland cottage, East
Gloucester, Mass., in better health than
last year, when she was forced to rest from 
her work upon “A Single Life,” which is
called, so far, her masterpiece. She is now
writing another book.
	MADAME SARAH GRAND has published
no book of importance since “The Heav-
enly Twins.” She has spent her time in
work upon a new novel which will be her
most important literary undertaking. Her
new novel traces the development of a wo-
man of genius from her girlhood to her
marriage. It is described as a most subtle
and extraordinary study of a woman’s
psychological evolution.
	MISS ABBIE A. BRADLEY of Hingham,
Mass., has presented $20,000 to the presi-
dent and fellows of Harvard College, in
memory of her father, the late William L.
Bradley, who was much interested in trees
and tree planting. The income of this fund
is to be expended by the directors of the
Arnold Arboretum in scientific investiga-
tion at that institution for increasing the
knowledge of trees.
	THE American College for Girls in Con-
stantinople is likely to accomplish work of
great significance. The college has pupils
from Asia Minor, Greece Macedonia, Bul-
garia, Roumania and Russia. The hos-


tility of the Sultan has of late caused the
withdrawal of the Turkish students, who,
though few in numbers, were counted
among, the brightest girls in attendance,
and the troublous times at Constantinople
have thinned out the girls from a distance,
especially the Bulgarians.		Ex.


