LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, September 4th, 1897, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Oh say
what is truth.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
P. Young. Singing “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” The minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne felt very much grati-
fied at seeing so many present, and express-
ed her desire that we might have a pleasant
meeting. She said the Spirit went from
heart to heart, and that she loved to hear
the testimonies of her sisters, said the Lord
had said those who bore testimony of Him,
He would bear testimony of them. Felt
all were blessed who did this, and said
Satan tried to make us believe that we
could not bear our testimony and gave us
those frightened feelings that kept us from
doing so.
	Sister Frances Smith and Elizabeth Paul
bore strong testimonies.
	Sister Pixton said she felt well and bore a
strong testimony. Thought that our
hymns were really inspired by God and felt
they were sermons in themselves. Said
there was nothing to be more desired than
the Spirit of God, it was this that cheered
the Saints on their long and lonely journey.
Exhorted the sisters to be humble and put
their trust in God.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and felt she wanted to do all the
good she could. She knew we all had to
work out our own salvation.
	Sister Margaret P. Young was glad that
she was one who embraced the Gospel in
her youth, and felt grateful for what she
had passed through. Asked God to bless
us all.
	Sister Raleigh spoke of the goodness of
God to her and hoped she would be able to
do all things that were required of her.
	A sister bore her testimony to the heal-
ing of her little son and knew it came from
the Lord.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball spoke of visiting
at Sister Pixton’s house and the prayer that
she offered before sitting down to the table.
Was very much pleased with the testimon-
ies of the sisters, particularly of the sister
who spoke of the healing of her little son,
and said we should live near enough to
God that He would hear us and whisper to
us what to do in time of sickness. Spoke
strongly on faith and said this is what we
should cultivate. She knew we were a
blest as well as a chosen people.
	Sister Isabella Workman testified to the
goodness of God to her and said each morn-
ing she asked Him to give her strength for
that day.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said she had been
quite sick and in a great deal of pain, and
she knelt down and asked the Lord what
she should do that she might be made well.
After she arose she heard her son come in
and she asked him to administer to her
which he did, and with the use of conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil she was healed, for which she
felt to praise and thank God.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she felt we
were blessed in having the dearly loved sis-
ters with us who knew and worked with
the Prophet Joseph. Urged the sisters to
do Temple work, she did not know what
she should do if she could not go there, even
if it were only once a month. Felt this
coming election we should make a subject
of prayer which way to vote, as much as
anything else. Prayed that we might ever
be guided by the Holy Spirit.
	President Horne gave out the notice that
two weeks from now was the quarterly con-
ference. Said many times she had felt the
prayers of her sisters, especially the other
day when she had rather over-done by
taking a long drive to attend a conference;
the next day she was entirely prostrated
and she had another important meeting to
attend, but she prayed to the Lord to help
her, that it was His work that she was en-
gaged in, and would He not help her? She
said she laid down for a little while and
went to sleep, and when she awoke she
was greatly refreshed and felt better than
she had for some time. Felt this was
pretty well for one who was 79 years old.
Felt grateful to the Lord for these bless-
ings and prayed His choicest blessings
might be upon us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
