WHAT THE CALIFORNIA PAPERS SAY.
	THAT Madame Mountford is a remark-
ably brilliant woman, and that she is a
great orator and actress, goes without say-
ing to all who were fortunate enough to
have heard her series of lectures at the
Yosemite theater last week, and that she is
withal a true, noble and Christian woman.
Her heart is in the work she has created
and although she has wonderful talents and
would make one of the greatest actresses
the world has known—would, in fact,
succeed in almost any intellectual pursuit—
she feels that this is her mission, and in
doing it she is carrying out the life-work of
her father and of a long line of Christian
ancestors. Her noble aim is to awaken
an interest in the Bibie and by teachings
and explanations with living pictures and
scenes make the word of God so plain, so
simple and so beautiful that every child
will understand and be benefited by it.
We usually expect when we see so large a
woman as Madame Mountford to find in
her a lack of gentleness and much that is
masculine. Not so the Madame. A little
chat with her in her room dispels at
once this illusion and convinces the most
incredulous that she is all gentleness, refine-
ment and altogether charming. Her voice
is low and sweet and her suave and cour-
teous manners are those of an Oriental of
noble blood. She has lectured for fourteen
years, most of the time in foreign lands,
and it is said that her name has become
a familiar household word throughout all
England. She has visited America severel
times and has lectured in most of the large
cities in the East. This is, however, her
first trip to the coast. She went to Salt
Lake City under engagement of the Boston
Concert and Lecture Bereau. Her season
with them having expired she came to Cali-
fornia- not on a lecturing tour, but simply
to see the country of which she had heard
so much. During the Woman’s Congress
in San Francisco she was persuaded to
give a series of lectures and having met
with unqualified success there and here she
has concluded to visit all the larger cities
in the State, and will lecture in them be-
ginning this week in Sacramento. Dr.
Ellis will act as her agent while in this
State. To one comfortably seated in the
audience and gazing upon scene after scene
of Oriental splendor, made so intensly
interesting and beautiful by this gifted wo-
man, but little idea can be formed of the
vast amount of work that goes on behind
the scenes. After having closed, as she
thought, her lecturing tour for the season
she sent her four trained assistants back to
England and came here with only her
maid and valet. As it requires from four-
teen to twenty men, women and children to
assist her in illustrating her lectures, it is

[Column 2]
no easy matter to rehearse and train such a
large number for these lectures. I was an
interested spectator behind the scenes and
watched her as she labored unceasingly
with them up to the last moment before the
curtain rose. Although her maid and valet
rendered some assistance in converting her
company into priests, scribes, shepherds,
Samaritans, Bedouins etc., yet all of the
draping of veils and sashes, sorting out and
arranging of robes, the winding of yards
and yards of material which she rolls into
ropes and puts around and around the
heads in turban fashion, the putting on of
jewels, necklaces and armlets and a thou-
sand and one other details are all done by
the artistic and graceful touch of the
Madame herself. So by the time all receive
the last touch, which is to give the rosy
tint to the cheeks and lips and the dark
shade to the eyebrows and eyes, any other
woman would have been too exhausted to
have gone upon the stage at all, much less
to have held the undivided attention of a
large audience for three hours, but not so
Madame Mountford. Her power of endur-
ance seemed to be equal to her intellect.
When she lectures in the evening she eats
nothing after her noonday meal until her
lecture is over. If she is to give a matinee
no food or nourishment of any kind is taken
after her early breakfast until the matinee
is over, and then very little if she is to
lecture on the same evening. The Madame
has expended $25,000 on the robes,
draperies and Oriental paraphernalia which
she carries with her. They are of heavy
linen, fine camels-hair and silks, most of
which are heavily embroidered and inter-
woven with gold, all done by the hands of
the Oriental women of her country.


