RUTH M FOX.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.

MRS. CLEOPHAS is a native of France,
the daughter of Michel Halbout, an em-
inent sculptor, and her mother came from a
family of Belgium nobility, her name con-
sequently was Eugenie Halbout de Horn.
The family de Horn is one of the oldest and
most renowned in the history of Belgium
and travelers passing through Brussels
never fail to notice the statue of Count de
Horn, which occupies a place in the Hotel
de Ville. She is a lineal descendant of this
brave soldier, noted for his valor, who died
for his country, and inherits much of the
bravery, generosity and patriotism of him
whom she strongly resembles.
Having been taken quite young into the
family of her grandparents de Horn, and
associating with those of mature age, she
showed a seriousness beyond the usual de-
velopment of the youthful mind. 
When only five years of age her father
died, leaving her a fortune in her own
right, whereupon her godfather, the Count
de Miunerkerke Brebisson looked after her

[Column 2]
interests until the time of his death in 1865,
at which time the Count de Meunerkerke,
the minister well known during the reign
of Napoleon III., who was a friend of the
family, was legally made her guardian.
At this time her grandmother, a noble
woman, and herself a woman of great abil-
ity, seeing in the child a great love for
study, placed her in the institute of Mrs.
Blondeau, one of the best colleges in Paris,
where she remained until 17 years of age,
when she passed her examination brilliant-
ly before a commission of academy inspect- 
ors, etc., and received her diploma. She
evinced remarkable proficiency in writing
special Latin exercises, and wrote in her
mother tongue an account of the assassina-
tion of Thomas A. Becket, Archbishop of
Canterbury. The essay was read in the
Sorbonne of Paris by Mr. du Cellier, the
rector at that time, and she was saluted
with enthusiasm and retired with much
honor.
When the war of 1870 broke out, when
everyone in France, women and men,
young and old entered upon the field of
action, Mlle. Halbout de Horn, imbued
with the spirit of the hour and the welfare
of her people at heart, immediately entered
upon the arduous undertaking of providing
food and clothing for the destitute. Under
her personal direction a bureau of benevo-
lence was opened in the Fourteenth arron-
dissement in Paris, and under her personal
supervision women were employed making
clothes for the poor. Assiduously and
systematically this work was carried on
with a most remarkable zeal. Never hesi-
tating, undauntedly she worked, devoting
all her energies to the work that had so
thoroughly enlisted her interest. Hers was
a strong purpose to benefit her fellow
creatures; the result was 2,000 families
were clothed and cared for, and today the
representatives of those families love and 
bless her name. The spirit of benevolence
manifested at this time is deserving of
special commendation when we consider
that at the moment when charity was
needed a fearful war was raging, the dark
and appalling clouds of war hung over her
head and o’ershadowed the prosperity of
her country; it was ’mid the strife of battle,
with bombs falling around her house that
this brave girl gladdened the hearts of
many and faithfully performed her duty.
An instance of her admirable courage
and bravery of a true patriot is shown a t
the time of the civil war which broke out
afterward. When nearly every one went
to the suburbs, this noble girl remained in
her own home with her family, surrounded
by bloodthirsty fiends, who knew no law
and recognized no government. Amid the
fearful carnage Mlle. Halbout de Horn was
held a prisoner by the anarchists, threaten-
ed every hour during six weeks of captivity
with untold horrors and many times threat-
ened to be shot. When questioned as to
her reason for staying when all others had
fled, her reply was: “I did not want the
anarchists to invade my home.”
After the war ended and the regular
government was again established, her
name was proposed for the decoration of
the Legion of Honor. This great honor
she refused to accept, giving as her reason
that she had only done her duty as a true
patriot. Her name was then written in the
Golden Book of the Women of France, in
remembrance of that terrible year, and to
her heart of hearts that reward is sufficient.

[Column 3]
In 1873, at the age of 20 years, she mar-
ried a wealthy importer and during the fol-
lowing 12 years, in company with her hus-
band, visited England, Germany, Spain,
Italy, Switzerland and other countries, be-
coming familiar with all the places visited.
In 1885 her husband was taken very ill
and for two years lingered, suffering intense
agony with that dread disease, a cancer.
His faithful wife assumed the entire care of
the one she loved and while he lived minis-
tered with the devotion of an angel to the
wants of one who was destined never to re-
cover. But death itself must have lost its
terrors when a tender, loving wife was
there to smooth the way as the tired spirit
winged its way heavenward. In March
1887, her husband died, leaving her entirely
alone in the world, as all her relatives had
passed away. The death of her husband
came to her as an overwhelming blow. In
France the women are not protected as
they are in America, therefore when she
had buried her husband new troubles con-
fronted her. When she went to the ceme-
tery to bury her beloved one she was a rich
woman; upon her return to her home she was
poor, for the officers waited to place their seal
upon her possessions, and during the next
six years she was involved in a lawsuit,
meanwhile being obliged to earn her own
livelihood, and compelled to take up the
burden of life. In April 1888 she came to
America, highly recommended by the
French and Belgium consuls as a lady of
remarkable accomplishments, both as a
writer and conversationalist. It was then
that her education proved to be of great
assistance. Her linguistic ability procured
for her an appointment as professor of the
French language in the well known school
of languages, Fisher, in Philadelphia, Penn.;
in Gerard College and also the New Cen-
tury Guild, a college for working women.
At the same time the government of France
took advantage of her departure for this
country to charge her with a mission in the
interest of the Red Cross Society, of which
she was an active member, and when she
came wearing the badge of the Red Cross,
the emblem before which all nations bow,
every door was open for her and a royal
welcome waited her. Visiting the arsenal
in Philadelphia, she was most graciously
received by the directors and accompanied
by the consul of France she inspected the
tent hospital system, in view of recom-
mending the same to the government of
France. She also held correspondence
with the war department at Washington,
D. C., relative to that subject. Her mis-
sion fulfilled she took her chair in the col-
leges named. Her success in all her un-
dertakings was assured from the start. A
beautiful, cultivated woman, noted for her
social, intellectual and benevolent qualities,
she soon became very prominent, and be-
loved by all who knew her.
(Continued.)


NANTUCKET’S historic windmill has be-
come the property of the Nantucket His-
torical Association, which will preserve the
ancient landmark.
	“PRENTIS HALL” is the name given to
the new building at Forest Park, Chautau-
qua Assembly, presented to the women of
Kansas by the citizens of Ottawa. The
building was named in honor of Mrs.
Noble L. Prentis. of Kansas City, Mo.,
formerly of Kansas.


