TERESA CRAWSON WELLS.

IN the heart of Summer she passed away,
When earth was crowned with the fairest
flowers,
To dwell in the realm of immortal day,
And roam ’mid the bright Elysian bowers—
In that land where ete[-]nal summer reigns,
And the fountain of youth perennial springs;
Where music divine in its lofti[-]st strains
Through ages on ages exultantly rings.
	It is a painful duty to write of those we
love who have passed away from earth,
and especially so when one’s own heart is
filled with the sorrow of the parting; but
such entries must be made in the book of
life and left on record, that the name and
works of the deceased may be known in
the generation in which they lived. And
therefore, as one of a number of Utah’s
fairest daughters departed, we offer a
tribute of love to Teresa Clawson Wells,
the beloved wife of Governor Heber M.
Wells and daughter of H. B. and Sister

[Column 2]
Margaret G. Clawson of this city. As a
child the writer remembers Teresa as very
beautiful in face and figure, fair as a lily,
with long golden curls, and better still,
gentle in all her ways and beloved by her
associates for her unselfishness and amiabili-
ty. When quite young she came upon the
stage in the Home Dramatic company in
such parts as were suited to her tender
years, and was a great favorite with thea-
tre-goers, and as she grew to womanhood
she manifested considerable talent in the
histrionic art and seemed a part of the home
company though she did not follow the
stage professionally. She always had ex-
quisite taste in dress in all its details, and
her entire personality was charming to a
rare degree. She had great adaptability
and wonderful tact, both of which qualities
help one in making enduring friendships.
She was a devoted daughter and an affec-
tionate sister, and naturally a sort of leader
in her own family and among her friends;
and with the circle in which she moved she
pleased without an effort, really perhaps
because of the strong underlying sympathy
of her refined nature. Mrs. Wells died in
the very bloom of womanhood in the midst
of a life rich in all that tends to human
happiness, and when one meditates on
such a death, one cannot but say His ways
are not as man’s ways.
	On July 8th, in the morning at 7:30,
after suffering severely and with great
patience and fortitude almost beyond hu-
man endurance, Mrs. Wells worn out with
pain and physical exhaustion finally suc-
cumbed to the inevitable, and the bright
spirit freed from its earthly tabernacle pass-
ed from the loving husband and relatives
gathered around the bedside; but there is
no doubt she joined that innumerable com-
pany” on the other shore where there
were many to greet her who had known
and loved her in life here upon the earth.
Mrs. Wells was an exceptionally devoted
wife, a tender and true mother and well
calculated to entertain and do honor to the
position of her husband as the Chief Execu-
tive of the State.
	The funeral services of Mrs. H. M.
Wells were conducted at the residence of
her mother, 72 N. State St. (whither she
had been moved during her illness) at 4 p.
m. on Sunday July 11, 1897. The house
was beautifully decorated with flowers,
roses predominating, though there were
lilies and carnations in profusion, emblems
of innocence and expressions of love from
hearts overflowing with sorrow for the de-
parted companion, relative and friend.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney presided and
Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
music. The singers were Elders R. C.
Easton, H. G. Whitney, H. S. Goddard
and J. D. Spencer with Elder C. S. Burton
organ accompanist. The services opened
with “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” and after prayer by Counselor
Robert Patrick R. C. Easton sang “O My
Father” in his mellow and tender tenor.
Bishop Whitney made some consoling and
sympathetic remarks, after which H. S.
Goddard sang in full, rich tones, with
much expression the solo “She is not dead
but sleepeth.” President Jos. F. Smith
delivered a powerful discourse and exhor-
tation upon the principle's of eternal life.
The singers rendered “When the swallows
homeward fly,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Wm. Barton.
	When the long train of carriages reached

[Column 3]
the cemetery the quartette sang “Rest on
the hillside rest,” and the resting place of
the remains of Mrs. Wells was dedicated by
Apostle John Henry Smith. The elegant
white casket which had been borne by her
brothers was lowered, and the mound of
earth when covered was strewn with the
fragrant flowers in every conceivable de-
sign of workmanship. Mrs. Wells was
literally buried in flowers. What can be
said to those nearest and dearest thus be-
reaved? Truly God can comfort through
His Holy Spirit.
“Oh, when the heart is full, when bitter thoughts
Come crowding thickly up for utterance,
And the poor common words of courtesy
Are such a very mockery,
How much the bursting heart
May pour itself in prayer.”


