THE JUBILEE NUMBER.

	OUR readers will notice that we have
made this number a sort of Jubilee paper,
and we think the articles by Miss Annie
Laura Hyde and by Mrs. Ruth M. Fox are
particularly appropriate and give many im-
portant facts relative to our people and to
Utah. The two poems we publish were
both written for the prize competition, and
we were very glad to be able to give them
to the public; the last issue of the Expo-
nent contained the very artistic poem “The
Lily and the Bee,” by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, which even the judges commended
when they made their decision as to the
prize poem.
	The poem on our first page entitled
"The Pioneer Journey,” is written from
the heart, the author has felt deeply all she
has expressed and more, and in fact all her
poems are heartfelt, and Sister Woodman-
see has written for many years on Mormon
subjects always, almost exclusively.
	The poem on the third page is by L. L.
Greene Richards, the first editor of this
paper, her writings too, are significantly
Mormon, and she is one of the most charm-
ing verse writers as well as letter writers
and story tellers for children that we have
among our people. Each of these two sis-
ters have told the story of the pioneers in
her own way, and given her own ideas of
the pioneers and their hardships and ulti-
mate success. And though nearly a hun-
dred poems were written for the semi-
centennial the half has not been told nor
can it ever be were a hundred more written.
	There is grand material for the future
historians and biographers of Utah in the
exodus from Nauvoo, the sojourn at Winter
Quarters, and the journey over the plains
with ox teams and other primitive con-
ditions the settling of a desert, the build-
ing of a city, and cities, and eventually of
a great state.
	The people who have written see things
from their point of view, and write accord-
ingly. In this fast age of the world no one
has time to spare to write an elaborate
epic poem. Every one who has ability in
this direction puts it to the best financial use
possible. The journals and magazines of
the day are mostly depended upon to tell
one of important events, and that brings a
thought that might be expressed without
giving offence perhaps; why the Semi-
Centennial was not written up and illustrat-
ed in some of the famous magazines of the
day in a way calculated to attract public


attention, and make it of some historic im-
portance as a matter of record in the coun-
try of which Utah is a part
	The newspapers in this state did full
justice to the Jubilee and the Commission
and to the living Pioneers themselves the
“whole six hundred,” and nine-five more
who came here in 1847—and the illustrious
dead. That is they kept up daily with the
occurrences as they were transpiring, but 
comparatively few people outside of Utah 
read these great dailies—but they do read
the North American Review, the Forum,
Review of Reviews and standard magazines.


