EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE hope and expect the Kindergarten
work will assume large proportions this
year, it is growing in favor and the people
are being educated up to the idea that the
Kindergarten theory and practice as taught
lies at the very foundation of the training
of children for life work.
	THE bathing season seems to have been
liberally patronized during the hot weather
this summer and all the old favorite resorts,
Wasatch and Brighton particularly, with
Saltair and Garfield and the Lagoon.
There are so many cool resorts
and such picturesque scenery that one
need not go far to find a place to rest and
recuperate, if one has the time. Of course
during the Jubilee everybody came to the
city but began to scatter after, and even the
children need a breath of country air before
the vacation is over. Schools will soon


open now and with the record of last year
we may expect great improvement to be
made. 
	MISS LOUISE B. EMERY, of St. Paul, 
who came here very highly recommended 
in her line, Kitchen Kindergartening, has 
been giving lessons to children and teach-
ers in this city during the last four weeks. 
She has illustrated them and at times open-
ed her classes and lectures to visitors. Cer-
tainly this branch of Kindergarten work is 
one of the most helpful things to young
mothers, whose nerves and brain are over-
taxed with the endless questions and con-
stant restlessness of little ones. The ques-
tion so often asked  “What shall we do 
with our girls?” might well be applied to 
young mothers only  it should be put
“What shall we do for them? Every 
young mother in the land ought if possbile
to have the benefit of the Kindergarten. 
	THE annual meeting of the Cannon 
ward Relief Society was held on the 5th of
August in the Cannon schoolhouse, Mrs. 
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Although 
there was a pouring rain accompanied by
thunder and lightning, yet the sisters of
the ward, (some of them coming long dis-
tances) turned out well. After the usual 
exercises of singing and prayer, minutes of 
the organization and of the previous meet-
ing  were read nnd approved, also the
Treasurer’s report for the year, all of which 
were accepted. Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
M. Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, 
Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde and 
Clara C. Cannon each made remarks in-
structing and interesting, also Sister Cannon
the president. Other sisters present who 
would have spoken had there been time
were Sisters Caroline D. Smoot, Catharine 
Lewis, Ruth Ensign and Zina H. Bull. 
After the meeting was dismissed, delicious
refreshments were served to all members 
and guests and social conversation enjoyed.


