READ BEFORE THE U. W. P. C JULY, 1897.
	IN giving even a short sketch of the
Pioneers of Utah it will be necessary to first
know what kind of people they were,
where they came from, what were their
characteristics, and the cause and motives
which led them to leave what was then
the frontiers of a great nation, the bounda-
ries of civilization to seek to find homes, peace
and prosperity in an alien country, barren,
forbidding in aspect, inhabited by some of
the lowest of the uncivilized tribes of
America; to be anxious and enthusiastic to
start upon their journey into a region they
knew not of, leaving their beautiful homes
and smiling farms behind them.
	The historian Bancroft says “There is
no parallel in the world’s history to this
emigration from Nauvoo. The exodus
from Egypt was from a heathen land, a
land of idolaters, to a fertile region designat-
ed by the Lord for his chooen people, the land
of Canaan. The pilgrim fathers in fleeing
to America came from a bigoted and des-
potic people, a people making few preten-
sions to civil and religious liberty. It was
from these same people who had fled from
the old world persecutions that they might
enjoy liberty of conscience in the wilds of
America, from their descendants and asso-
ciates that other of their descendants who
claimed the right to differ from them in
opinions and practice were now fleeing.
	Before this the Mormons had been driven
to the outskirts of civilization where they
had built themselves a city; this they
must now abandon and throw themselves
upon the mercy of savages.
	After the Latter-day Saints, or

[Column 2]
as they are nick-named, “Mormons” were
driven from Missouri they fled to Illinois
and built the beautiful city of Nauvoo, sur-
rounded by farms and smaller settlements.
But the persecutions from which they fled
in Missouri were heaped upon them here
and after having their two leading men killed
and others wounded by an infuriated mob,
while they were under the protection of the
Governor; their houses burned and fields
destroyed and every indignity heaped upon
them, they at length made an agreement
with the representatives of the people of
Illinois to leave the state in the spring.
The agreement was reached on the first
of October and during the intervening
months between October and March the
Saints were busy making arrangements for
their enforced departure. Their prophet
and partriarch were dead, but they were
directed by the council of the Twelve,
Brigham Young being president of that
council.
	To know what kind of people they were,
whether industrious or indolent, one need
but look at the country they have made,
our beautiful state of Utah.
	Everywhere in and around Nauvoo was
bustle and excitement to prepare for the
early spring exodus. The people en-
deavored to dispose of their property,
in some instances this was accomplished, in
others they were enabled to lease, but in
the majority of cases they had to abandon
their homes and farms which had cost them
so much toil and labor, and which they lov-
ed so well.
	As early as February 4th eighteen hun-
dred and forty-six, the first party, left the
city and encamped about nine miles west-
ward on the Sugar creek. They had been
ferried across the Mississippi until that
river was frozen over when they crossed
with their wagons, teams and effects upon
the ice. The night of the 5th of February
in the bitter cold, and in the tents which
had been hastily pitched, the snow being
swept away from below them, nine wives
became mothers. By the middle of Febru-
ary when Brigham Young joined them a
thousand souls with their wagons, teams
and effects had crossed to the Iowa shore.
Here a council was held, the company
somewhat organized and Brigham Young
and some of the leading men who accom-
panied him returned to Nauvoo, held ser-
vices in the almost completed Temple and
then again joined the company on the
Sugar creek, which on Sunday March 1,
the first day of spring, began their west-
ward march, traveling five miles that day
and encamping still on the Sugar creek.
	It was not customary for the Latter-day
Saints to travel on Sunday as they honored
the Sabbath day and tried to keep it holy,
but as Brigham Young had given his word
that they would leave the first day of the
spring, and as the camp was so close to
Nauvoo many of the people were going
back and forth which made their enemies
suspicuous of their sincerity, it was deemed
expedient to start on the Sabbath. William
Clayton was made clerk of the company,
and Willard Richards an easy and versatile
writer, historian. The company traveled
slowly over the undulating snow and
ice covered plains of Iowa, some-
times making but three to seven miles a
day, until on the 27th of March they
reached Shoal creek and were forced to en-
camp there for three weeks on account of
the spring freshets. There a more com-

[Column 3]
plete organization was effected, the com-
pany was divided into tens, fifties and hun-
dreds over each of which was placed a captain
and the whole was divided into two divi-
sions, Heber C. Kimball, president of one,
and Brigham Young of the other, the latter
being also director of all. Laws were
made then for the governing of the camp
laws that were very strict in regard to
morality, honesty and general good con-
duct.
	As they traveled along settlements were
made, and traveling stakes of Zion organ-
ized. In these settlements small houses of
logs, turf and mud were made, land was
fenced in and crops were sown for the bene-
fit of the people who might stay in the set-
tlements, and for the good of those who
followed after them. One settlement on
the Grand river one hundred and fifty-five
miles from Nauvoo was called Garden
Grove, and another twenty-seven miles be-
yond, Mount Pisgah.
	There were now about one thousand
wagons with their precious freight of hu-
man lives rolling over the plains. About
the middle of June they reached the Mis-
souri river, and by the generosity and
friendliness of the Omaha and Pottawat-
omie Indians were allowed to settle on
their lands.
	It was here that the call for the Mormon
Battalion reached them. The United
States was waging war against Mexico try-
ing to wrest from her, her provinces of
California and New Mexico; and to march
across the continent and assist them in this
was to be the mission of the Battalion. Th
people were filled with dismay. Five hun-
dred able-bodied men from their little com
pany out in the midst of the wilds of
America! What had their country done
for them? They had been driven from
their homes, persecuted, robbed and slain;
when they had applied for justice it had
been refused them; did they owe any alle-
giance to her? And yet they loved their
country, it was their country that was
calling; that country to which their pil-
grim ancestors had fled from the persecu-
tions of the old world, that land wherein they
yet hoped to build their city of Zion, their
Holy City. These contradicting emotions
passed through them. What was to be
done? The question was soon answered
for them. Their leaders decided that the
call should be answered, the men should be
furnished. Not enough able-bodied men
were on the banks of the Missouri to re-
spond to the call so Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards,
in the role of recruiting sergeants went
back to Mount Pisgah to enlist men there.
In three days the muster was complete, the
company organized and ready to march.
Instructions were given them, a flag
brought out and nailed to the top of a tree
mast, a farewell party given in Father
Taylor’s bowery, (father of President John
Taylor) and the Mormon Battalion bid
their families and friends a long, in some
cases an eternal farewell. A few women
accompanied their husbands and these with
the servants brought the number up to
five hundred and fifty-nine. Sending so
many of their able-bodied men off made it
impossible for the company to go any fur-
ther that year; even before the call of the
Battalion many women had been forced to
do work which should have been done by
men, and now they were too enfeebled to
undertake the long and hazardous journey,


[Column 1]
accordingly it was decided to go into winter
quarters. Many of the Saints had crossed
the river from Council Bluffs and accord-
ing to instructions they laid out a city
which they called Winter Quarters.
	This city was composed of seven hun-
dred houses, workshops, places of worship
etc,, with a population of four thousand
and divided into twenty-two wards, each
presided over by a bishop and his counsel-
lors. A High Council was also organized.
The city was what is now Florence, Neb.,
five miles from Omaha.
	It was in this city in crude houses of
logs, turf and other primitive materials that
the Saints passed the severe winter of 1846
and '47.
	While camped here it was found neces-
sary on account of trouble in the branch of
the Church in England, for Apostles John
Taylor, Orson Hyde and P. P. Pratt to go
to England to arrange the affairs.
	As spring approached it was deemed
advisable not to take the whole Church
along but for a small company to be select-
ed to push forward, pioneer the way, find
the place where they should build their
city and then the other companies should
follow in their wake. Accordingly one
hundred and forty-four men were selected,
one of whom became ill and could not go,
and a their earnest solicitations three wo-
men, Clara D. Young, wife of Brigham
Young, Harriet P. W. Young, wife of
Lorenzo Young and Ellen S. Kimball, wife
of Heber C. Kimball, and two children
accompanied the party.
	On April 5, 1847, Heber C. Kimball
with six wagons left Winter Quarters and
found a camp four miles west called Cut-
ler's camp, and this camp was the nucleus
of the Pioneer company. On the eighth
some of the leading men returned to meet
Parley P. Pratt and hear the report of his
mission, on the ninth another start was
made but the same men again returned to
meet John Taylor who had returned from
England bringing with him two thousand
dollars in gold subscribed by the British
Saints. Apostles Taylor, Pratt and Hyde
remained behind to organize new compan-
ies and the former soon left, reaching the
basin of the Great Salt Lake the latter part
of September and the beginning of October,
while Orson Hyde remained behind to or-
ganize companies, attend to the emigration
and edit the "Frontier Guardian," the
first newspaper published in Iowa. On
the 15th of April the Pioneer company
finally started with seventy-two wagons,
ninety-two horses, fifty-two mules, sixty-
six oxen, nineteen cows, seventeen dogs
and some chickens. They were instructed
to proceed two wagons abreast as much as
possible, and when liable to be attacked
more; the bugle would sound at five
o'clock for every one to arise, then they
had prayers, fed their teams, breakfasted
and were ready to start at seven o'clock.
At 8:30 p. m. everyone had prayers in
his own wagon and by 9 o'clock all
must be in bed Each company of ten
took their turn in riding in the van
of the train, and when they camped at
night a corral was formed by placing the
wagons in a circle, the fore wheel of each
vehicle being locked in a hind wheel of
the one ahead. One and sometimes two
openings were left in this corral and the
horses and cattle were usually driven into
the inclosure, especially when in a hostile
country. Over this small, mimic, sleep-
ing city the sentries mounted guard. On

[Column 2]
the Sabbath day there was no traveling,
divine services were held and the day was
kept holy. The people were encouraged
to be happy and cheerful and enjoy them-
selves, but excessive levity and loud
laughter was discountenanced.
	The company traveled up the barren
north side of the Platte making their own
road, fearing to travel on the south side
where the emigrants to Oregon and Cali-
fornia were traveling on account of the
depredations of their old enemies the Mis-
sourians. They frequently were com-
pelled to pay tributes of food and provisions
to the Indians, but were usually treated
well by them. In crossing rivers they
used a small leather boat called the Revenue
Cutter which they had brought with them
as a wagon bed from Winter Quarters.
At Loup Fork they ferried some of the
Oregon emigrants across and were given by
them flour and other provisions; these
emigrants were Missourians and it seemed
strange that they should thus help to feed
them when they were in the wilderness.
	They hunted and fished as they went
along, and thus added to their provender.
On May 21, a guide board was put up,
reading: "From Winter Quarters 409
miles; from the junction of the north and
south forks (of the Platte) 9 ¾ miles. Ac-
cording to Fremont this plaee is 132 miles
from Laramie." Various other such guide
boards were made, often a buffalo's skull
being used for that purpose, and these
skulls also served for post offices in which
were hidden letters for the companies
traveling in the rear. On June 1, they
were opposite Fort Laramie and five hun-
dred and forty-three miles from Winter
Quarters, half their journey completed in
seven weeks. There they were joined by
more of the Mississippi Saints and the in-
valid portion of the Mormon Battalion,
seventeen in all, and A. M Lyman was
sent back to Pueblo to take charge of the
Mississippi Saints. On the 4th of June
they left Laramie and met many emigrants
bound for Oregon, and in the region of the
Black Hills on the Platte, ferried them
across the river, as on account of high
water it was not fordab[-]e. Finding that
the smimming of the wagons injured
them they made a raft and ferried their
own wagons and loads as well as the emi-
grants across, charging the latter $1.50 for
a wagon and loads. The money and pro-
visions obtained at this time were equally
divided among the company, the ferrymen
receiving a little more for their work. As
this plan was considered a good one to
establish a ferry nine men were detailed to
man it, and hereby to be able to pioneer
the next company.
	The pioneers met several scouts and
mountaineers of whom they inquired about
the land ahead of them, but all reports
were very discouraging; the land was bar-
ren and no vegetation, little water, a great
salt sea and inhabited by some of the poor-
est and lowest of the savage tribes. They
were advised to go into the northern part
of the great basin valley to a place where
the hunters and trappers cached their furs
as it was the most fertile part, they called
it Cache valley, which name it still bears,
or into the southern part, but around the
great Salt Lake nothing would grow. Col.
Bridger offered one thousand dollars for
the first ear of corn ripened in the place
where the Saints settled. But still un-
daunted they pressed on turning their
faces into the heart of the Rocky Moun-

[Column 3]
tains, and away from the El Dorado of
California.
	On July 7, they reached Fort Bridger
but left it on the 9th and on the 12th of
the month President Young was taken ill
with mountain fever and was compelled to
fall to the rear and cease traveling for
awhile. On the 13th Orson Pratt with
forty-two men and the women and children
of the Crow family, pressed forward to try
and find the Denver trail and make a road
for those in the rear. They went down
Echo Cañon into East Cañon and thirteen
times crossed that rapid stream, often the
wheels of the wagons had to be double-
locked as they descended the steep and
rocky cañons; from East cañon up over
Big mountain, here Orson Pratt and John
Brown riding ahead of the company on
July 19, caught the first glimpse of the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Their
journey then led them over Little moun-
tain, and down Emigration cañon.
	On July 21, Erastus Snow joined the
van guard bringing a message from Presi-
dent Young who thought that on emerging
into the valley if they journeyed a little
northward they would find the best place.
On the same afternoon Erastus Snow and
Orson Pratt riding one horse rode into the
valley. On the afternoon of the 23rd
President Young saw the valley for the
first time, and a ter looking at it long and
steadfastly he said, "Enough, this is the
right place. Drive on."
	That night the President and the rear
guard camped at what is now Mountain
Dell, and on the afternoon of the following
day, the memorable 24th of July, the rear
guard drove into the valley to the place
which those in the van had selected, and
where they had sown their grain. And
their journey was over.
