ELIZABETH ISOLA MORRILL.
	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Elizabeth Isola Morrill, who de-
parted this life July 29, 1897. She was born in
Iron Co., Utah. Sep. 30 1864. She was the
daughter of Edward Homer and Sarah Stoker
Davis. The 28th of January, 1887 she was mar’
ried to Homer Morrill of Junction, Piute Co-,
Utah. Four small children are left to learn
through the keenest sorrow the loss of a mothers
unselfish love. A husband is bereft of a faithful
companion for whom he will ever mourn. A
fond mother, brother and sifter deeply grieve the
loss of a daughter and sister. Sister Morrill was
an active member in the Relief Society, acting at
one time as secretary also as teacher. She was
president of the Primary for a number of years
until the cares of a family and poor health forced
her to resign her public duties. She was never
so happy as when laboring in the cause of right.
Her life was a worthy example for all.
	Farwell dear sister, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone before
	From thy labor and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred evermore.
		HELEN MORRILL, Ass’t. Sec’y.
SISTER ELIZA G LYONS.
	Sister Eliza G. Lyon whose death occured on
the 30th of June, 1897, was the daughter of Geo.
and Elizabeth H. Goddard She was born in Leices-
ter, England, October 20, 1841. At the age of
ten she left England with her parents October 11,
1851, and arrived in St. Louis by way of New 
Orleans and Mississippi River, Jan. 1. 1852. They
started for Salt Lake City June 9, and arrived at
the latter place September 15, 1852.
	She was always an obedient daughter, kind and
generous sister, and fulfilled well her part as a
wife and mother. Her usefulness extended be-
yond the home. In September 1889 she became
treasurer of the 12th Ward Relief Society, at the
same time acting as visiting teacher, which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death. With
kindness and patience she fulfilled these duties
and will ever be held in kind and affectionate re-
membrance by those with whom she was asso-
ciated.
	In the death of Sister Lyon the Society loses a
most faithful officer and member, and her sudden
departure is a great grief to all her relatives and
associates. She leaves a husband and nine chi[-]d-
ren to mourn her loss. She rests from her labors
and her works will follow her
		JULIA A. DRUCE, Pres’t
		ANNIE KINGSBURY Sec’y.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	To the memory of Sister Elizabeth R. Bromley
who died at her residence in American Fork,
July 9, 1897. Elizabeth Roylance Bromley was
born Aug. 26, 1842 in Iowa and came to Utah
with her parents in 1850, and settled in Spring-
ville where she was married to Brother Wm.
M. Bromley November 16, 1859. She was the
mother of ten ch[-]ldren, six of whom survive her,
three sons and three daughters. She removed to
American Fork in 1883 and became a fai[-]hful
member of the Relief Society.
	On May 17, 1887 she was chosen second
counselor to the president, Sister Mary S. Hindley
and c[-]ntinued in the same position after Sister E.
D. Clarke was appointed president, a position
which she filled with credit to herself and satis-
faction to the Society; and though not a fluent
speaker she was willing at all times to fulfill the
duties required of her in administering to the
poor and needy and performing any labor that
was required of her.
	She was a kind, thoughtful mother, sacrificing
her own comfort for the benefit of her family.
She was also un[-]versally respected and esteemed

[Column 2]
as a neighbor and friend. Her greatest wish
during her sickness was that she could have gone
[-]o the Temple of the Lord and continued the
labor of love which she had commenced; but the
great Father willed it otherwise, and the work of
redeeming the dead is left to the children who re-
main behind her. She had accepted the law of
celestial marriage and her reward will be among
those who have lived the law of sacrifice. She
was faithful to the end and as such will have a
crown of immortality and eternal life in the man-
sions of the blest. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we as a Relief Society have
lost in Sister Bromley an ever willing worker and
wise counselor, that we esteem her memory and
deplore her loss, and we pray our Heavenly
Father to bless and comfort her family in their
great bereavement and
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon our records, a copy be sent to the family
and one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
		ELLEN D. CLARKE
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Committee,
ANN SOUTHWELL S. CLARK.
	IN memory of Sister Ann Southwell S. Clark
who died at the residence of her son, Lorenzo S.
Clark, June 8, 1897, aged 81 years, 8 months and
20 days. She was the daughter of Charles and
Sarah Southwell and was born in Cambridge,
England, Sep 18, 1815, married William Seymore
and had one son, Charles W. Seymore now re-
siding in Summit Co. She was baptized and
confirmed April 1850, by Brothers T. W. Johnson
and Goates, and was married to Benj. T. Clark
May, 1850. She came over the sea in the ship
Golconda, crossed the plains in Cyrus H.
Wheelock’s company and arrived in Sugar House
ward October 6, 1853. She passed through
many trials and privations incident to the early
days in these valleys, and was industrious and an
expert embroiderer, by which means she helped
to gain a livelihood for her family. She with
her husband accepted all the principles made
known to the Saints for their advancement and
exaltation in our Father’s kingdom.  When the
Relief Society was first organized in this ward
she was appointed a teacher and she took great
pleasure in performing this duty, which she ddi
fuithfully till July 1888, when she went to reside
with her daughter Mrs. Ellen Siddoway at Rock-
port.
	Funeral services were held at the ward meet-
ing house. Brothers James Johnston, George W.
Larkins, Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop A. Driggs
and Mrs. Sarah B. Gibson spoke of our departed
sister and their remarks were comforting and
consoling.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has called
from our midst our loved and respected sister,
Ann S. Clark, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Re-
lief Society of Sugar House ward extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family and
friends. We feel she died as she has lived a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and that our loss is her
gain. 
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, that they be record-
ed upon the Society record and a copy be sent to
the WOMAM’S EXPONENT for publication.
		SARAH B. GIBSON,
		BETSY BOLLWINKEL,
		ESTHER S. HARDY,
					Committee.
SISTER LYDIA MCKNIGHT
	Lydia McKnight was born Oct. 8, 1826 at Nor-
wich, England. She was baptized as a member
of the Church by Claudius V. Spencer in 1855,
emigrated to Zion in 1862.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS of Respect adopted by the Re-
lief Society of Minersville Aug. 11, 1897.
	WHEREAS, on the 7th day of August, 1897, it
pleased an alwise Creator to remove from our
midst by death one of our beloved sisters.
	WHEREAS, she has always taken an active part
in the Relief Society since its first organization.
She was elected president of the Relief Society
Jan. 30, 1871, which office she held for five
years. She has held the office of counselor for
several years, as long as her health would per-
mit. She has filled the office of teacher in the
Relief Society and Sabbath School also presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., which office she filled


with faithfu'ness and integrity, showing by her
example and precept that she was willing to do
her duty. She was always held in the highest
esteem by all those who knew her, every ready
and willing to help those that were in need.
Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That the Society, also the commun-
ity have sustained a severe 1 ss in the demise of
one so good and usef l. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathies to the bereaved husband and relatives.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of the Relief Society, al-
so one sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and one presented to her husband.
 
   Written by theMinersville Relief Society.


