A MEMORABLE MONTH OF JULY.

	THE mouth of July 1897 will long be
remembered as one of unusual events in
Utah, commemorating the advent of the
pioneers of 1847, emphazing in strong
terms their arrival and the attendant cir-
cumstances, and also the growth and pro-
gress of these vales and the intermountain
region and the industries and institutions
thereof. More history could scarcely be
made in a month in the record of events and
reminiscences than in this one, which in a
sense has been typical of the half century
just past. That this people and this nation
are just upon the eve of great events that
are to transpire, also seems to have be-
come a truism. A sense of uneasiness, of
restlessness and lack of confidence largely
prevails in the midst of the people, and
look at it as we will a change of some sort
seems imperative.
CORNER STONE.
	ON Thursday July 1st the corner stone
of the Brigham Young monument was
laid with all due ceremony and observances;
the place chosen at last after much indeci-
sion was at the head and in the centre of
Main St. on South Temple, the services
began at five o’clock. The streets near
and all available space was crowded with
people. Hon. James Sharp announced the
opening exercises. The Tabernacle choir
chorus sang “An Ode to Brigham Young”
composed by Prof. Evan Stephens, Prof.
Anton Pederson’s band joined in the ac-
companiment; President Snow offered an
appropriate prayer, then “America” was
rendered by the choir and band, which
seemed very inspiring to the assemblage of
people. Hon. Franklin D. Richards de-
livered the oration which was an eloquent
effort setting forth concisely, yet complete
and full, the great work accomplished by
Brigham Young in whose honor, together
with other pioneers living and dead, the
statue was being erected.
	Governor H. M. Wells then gave a short
paper which was more practical, not deal-
ing so much with history, but full of
momentous facts. Mayor Glendenning
came next, his remarks were a graceful
tribute to the true pioneers. The deposit-
ing of the leaden box containing the
treasures by President Wilford Woodruff,
the oldest living pioneer, was next in
order; the box contained names of the
Pioneers engraved on a copper plate, en-
graved likenesses of Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph

[Column 2]
F. Smith, and photograph of Franklin D.
Richards, historian. Two ivory paper
knives, the handles tipped with carved
likenesses of Joseph and Hyrum Smith and
in each knife the inscription, “A token of re
spect from Brother Juchau to Brother
Brigham.” They were given by Apostle
Brigham Young and were originally the
property of his father. A gold mounted
reading glass in a buckskin cover inclosed
in a tin case which belonged to President
Young; the mounting was of California
gold brought to Utah in an early day. On
the tin case is engraved, “This gold mount-
ed reading glass, buckskin cover and tin
case was carried and used by President
Brigham Young. It is a gift from his son,
Brigham Morris Young, to be put in the
foundation stone of the Pioneer monument
Salt Lake City Utah, June 28, 1897. En-
graver J. H. Harrison 81 years old.”
United States coins 1897—$5 gold and $1.
50 cts. and 10 cts. silver.”
	Apostle Brigham Young then ascended
the platform and spoke a few words of
thanks and appreciation and said: “In
behalf of the Brigham Young Memorial
Association I pronounce the corner stone of
this monument laid, and in behalf of Presi-
dent Woodruff and the other surviving
pioneers and the pioneers who have passed
away and the family of Brigham Young,
deceased.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Henson Walker of the
first pioneers, after which a chorus of child-
ren sang a selection and three cheers were
given for the pioneers and the. monument.
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORS.
	Beginning with near July 1st came the
band of Christian Endeavors from all parts
of the country; train load after train load
landed in the city, stopping to see the
sights and to attend one or two of their
meetings, and hastening on further West
to San Francisco and the Pacific coast.
Many hundreds of them were seeing the
West for the first time, and were agreeably
surprised with the progress towards the
civilization that they imagined only existed
in the Eastern states. On Sunday July 4th
the Christian Endeavor people held meet-
ings in the large Tabernacle in this city,
President Woodruff having kindly tendered
them the building as their representatives
in this city had no hall large enough to ac-
comodate the great number who were anx-
ious to attend. In the evening our own
people held service there with the Taber-
nacle choir, Evan Stephens in charge, the
building was filled to its utmost capacity.
The sermon by Elder C. W. Penrose was
strictly upon the first principles of the Gos-
pel and the divine nature thereof. He was
followed by President George Q. Cannon
who bore testimony to the same.
	It would seem only consistent to con-
clude that some of the listeners must have
been impressed by the sincere eloquence of
the speakers and genuine truths so ably
presented. At any rate we have reason to
hope that much of the absurd prejudice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
formerly entertained by them may be re-
moved, and that they will speak of the
people as they found them, kind, generous
and hospitable to the strangers within their
gates.
THE TRANS-MISSISSIPPI CONGRESS,
	The arrangements made beforehand,
chiefly the work of the secretary, W. H.
Culmer, helped to make the coming of the

[Column 3]
Delegates to the Congress from a distance
feel more than welcome. The ladies attend-
ing with them were the especial care of a
committee of ladies from the several clubs
in the city and were agreeably entertained
during their visit. Bands of music were in
attendance to greet them the first morning
of their arrival, and the Assembly Hall was
resplendent with draping, banners, flags
and flowers. The Congress throughout
was interesting and instructive and all who
were present to witness the proceedings
and listen to the speeches made on sub-
jects of importance to our intermountain
country, as well as to all the world, must
have felt themselves greatly benefited with
the information there given, and also,
through discussions pro and con.
UNVEILING OF THE MONUMENT.
	The firing of cannon, opening of the
Jubilee festivities and exercises, began at 7
o’clock Tuesday morning, July 20; this
cannon was brought to Utah in 1847 by
the first company of pioneers, and was
previously famous for having done service
at New Orleans in 1812.
	At 8 o'clock the veterans of 1847 began
to gather on Pioneer Square (better known
as “Old Fort block.”) It was a scene
that baffles description. The Jubilee
colors helped to make the picture less som-
bre than it would have been.
	The veterans of ’47 were headed by
Dimick B. Huntington’s martial band of 22
instruments. There were 318 pioneers in
line when the march began; the ranks were
well interspersed with women, whose valor
was not surpassed by men in those early
days. The line of march led to the Brig-
ham Young monument. At 11 o’clock the
exercises of unveiling the monument be-
gan. Hon Wm. J. Bryan was present at
the ceremonies and was vigorously cheered
on his arrival. Governor Wells, Judge
Zane and Bishop Scanlan were prominent
in the assemblage, but the most conspicu-
ous and impressive personage of all was
President Wilford Woodruff, the venerable
Pioneer of 1847. Bishop O. F. Whitney
introduced by the Hon. Chairman of the
Semi-Centennial Committee, Spencer Claw-
son, read President Woodruff’s prayer
which opened the exercises.
	The ode to Brigham Young was render-
ed by the choir from the portico of the
Hall of Relics. James H. Moyle made the
presentation speech which was extempo-
raneous and closed with the words, “We
present it to the public, in the presence of his
Excellency the Governor of the State, a
worthy son of a noble sire and honored
pioneer of Utah.”
	The immense multitude burst into ap-
plause as President Woodruff arose, then
silence fell again and the honored veteran
of ninety years said in clear tones and
audible voice while the great multitude
was hushed in eager listening, “In the
name of God I now unveil this monu-
ment,”—and instantly the Stars and Stripes
began to unfold and fall away from the
granite column, revealing to the people the
heroic, bronze figure of the great Pioneer
leader Brigham Young.
	Governor Wells in an eloquent speech
accepted the monument in behalf of the
people of Utah—in honor of Brigham
Young and the pioneers. At the close of
the Governor’s able effort, David McKenzie
stepped to the front and led the multitude
in a hip-hip hurrah three times. Apostle


Brigham Young with evident emotion and
amid frequent applause made a very bril-
liant and telling speech. Hon. C. C. Good-
win’s speech came next and was a dazzling
literary effort of great brilliancy and pathos.
The choir sang “America,” and just then
a telegram from Mr. Dallas, the sculptor of
the statue, was received with only the
words ‘‘Best Wishes.” Bishop Scanlan of the
Catholic church pronounced the benedic-
tion.

