BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	ON Monday afternoon June 28, a few
sisters were invited by the youngest daugh-
ter (Zina Hyde Bull) of Sister Marinda N.
Hyde deceased and the late Apostle Orson
Hyde, to assemble at the home of Brother
and Sister Bull in this city in honor of Sis-
ter Bull’s mother and some of her dear old
friends. The parlor and other rooms adja-
cent were beautifully decorated with flow-
ers from their own garden and yard and
were delightful to see and also very
fragrant. The welcome was genuine and
the hostess as radiant as a summer morning.
Greetings over the guests naturally fell
back upon old times in Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo, and many things were called
to mind which were new to the younger
women. Later on supper was announced
and the five o’clock tea was delicious,


though very few indeed of the guests
took tea; ice cream, strawberries and cake,
after several other courses of more substan-
tial viands, and the enjoyment was
heightened by the easy flow of conversa-
tion, much of it relating to Sister Hyde
whose natal day was memorialized in com-
ing together. Twelve years before we had
been invited by the one whose memory we
were perpetuating. At the tea table were
Sisters Jane B. Taylor, wife of President
John Taylor, Mary Ann Hyde, wife of
Apostle Orson Hyde, Zina D. H. Young
wife of President Brigham Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith wife of Apostle George A
Smith, and Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Julia C. Howe, Emme-
line B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie, Martia Hyde and Ida Felt.
	In the evening Brother Bull and Brother
Aurelius Miner came in, also Brother
Joseph Bull Jun. and his wife and a little
meeting was held with singing, prayer and
speaking, and the gifts of the Gospel were
manifest.
	Brother and Sister Bull who have only
been married a few months received many
hearty congratulations from the guests,
with every good wish for their prosperity
and future happiness.
	Sister Marinda N. Hyde was a conspic-
uous figure in the early days of the
Church, and was always greatly admired
for her sterling integrity to the Gospel
through great trials, and in herself possess-
ed an attractive personality. She was per-
haps unsurpassed as a housekeeper of “the
old school;” she had wonderful executive
ability and was a wise and prudent Presi-
dent of the 17th Ward Relief Society for
about twenty years. Her example is
worthy of emulation by the daughters of
Zion in all those attributes and virtues
which make a woman of strong and re-
markable character.


