A RINGING ADDDRSS.

To the People of Salt Lake City:
	EVERY taxpayer is an investor, every
resident a shareholder in the government of
his city. All are directly interested in its
prosperity and advancement. Shortsighted
and selfish is he who makes any other in-
terest paramount to the public welfare;
desperate is the condition of any municipal-
ity where cliques or rings or incompetence
or partisanship control in official affairs,
and business methods become subordinate
to personal or political advancement. In-
dustry languishes, extravagance runs riot,
patriotism is repressed, the honest pride of
citizens dwindles and the people suffer.
	We hold it to be necessary to state, re-
gretfully yet plainly, certain facts with
reference to the condition of public affairs in
Salt Lake City. It is better to tell the truth
now, even at the cost of advertising our
misfortunes, than by concealment and in-
activity to rush swiftly to further sufferings.
	Heavy debts, increase of offices, large
salaries and consequent excessive taxation
have made the burdens upon the people un-
bearable. In 1890 the aggregate of taxa-
tion in Salt Lake City was eleven mills; in
1897 it is twenty seven and one half mills.
Even this enormous figure will not cover
current expenses at their present volume;
and when to this is added that the valua-
tion on which the assessment is made is in
many instances greater than the property
is worth, there will be hone to dispute that
Salt Lake City bears a burden heavier than
almost any city in the land. Depreciation
in values since 1890 has gone hand in hand
with increase in expenses; the ease with
which public money has been expended is
only to be compared with the difficulty the
people have had in supplying it. All things
considered, the statement is fairly suscepti-
ble of proof that taxes have increased more
than two hundred per cent during the seven
years, while the prevailing depression has
many times multiplied the difficulties of the
taxpayer. The load thus placed upon the
small wage-earner and home-owner has
been and is grievous to be borne; among
the poorer classes it has in many cases
amounted to virtual confiscation. Public
improvements which under a more conserv-
ative policy might have been prosecuted,
and thus furnished employment to many
people, have had to be postponed. Nor
have the poorer classes been the only suf-
ferers.  Investments have been discouraged

[Column 2]
because property, even where favorably-
situated, is able to return little more than 
the amount of the taxes; capital, naturally
timid, has not looked this way with favor;
and business men generally have felt to the
utmost extent the voracity of the tax mons-
ter which consumed so much of the profits
of their enterprise and toil.
	 For the present year the city’s income
has been partially anticipated and used—a
deficit exists, in the payment of which a
large portion of the current year’s taxes will
be needed that should properly go only for
next year’s necessary expenditures. In
addition to ordinary expenses, fifty thou-
sand dollars per year, commencing with
1898, must be raised as a sinking fund for
the payment of our municipal debt, which,
as a fitting climax to these financial woes,
may be announced as reaching the enorm-
ous sum of over $2,509,000. Besides all
other evils that come from this condition of
public affairs, the city is prevented from
doing necessary work in preserving and
adding to municipal improvements, the con-
sequence of which is that the city’s progress
is stopped.
	This is a gloomy yet a truthful picture.
Happily we believe a remedy and relief can
be had. The situation calls for the highest
patriotism; men of undoubted integrity and
business ability must be called to office, re-
gardless of politics and every other consider-
ation save the capacity for the duties re-
quired.
	We affirm it as a correct principle and
one that should prevail henceforth, that the
government Of this city should be taken per-
manently out of politics and put wholly on
a business basis. Party administration in
municipal affairs should be forever abolish-
ed. This is no experiment, no new doc-
trine. The best governed cities of the Old
World have made it triumphant, the larg-
est and most progressive American cities
are struggling successfully with the same
problem. The hand of the politician will
in the near future be shaken off in all muni-
cipal affairs, party polities in municipal
campaigns will have no place. Salt Lake
City should be in the front in this great re-
form. Its business should be managed by
business men of approved fitness and ex-
perience. Its servants and employees should
be selected for these qualifications and no
others, just as any private or corporate
business, of which the municipality is after
all but the larger counterpart. Every
shareholder has the right to demand this in
the one case as well as in the other; the
highest success and the best results can be
achieved in no other way.
	Therefore, we who have signed our
names to this address, affirm and hold to
these principles and declarations:
	That party politics have no necessary
connection with municipal management:
	That only such persons should be select-
ed for municipal office as are honest, effici-
ent and willing to devote the requisite time
to the public service, having no unneces-
sary deputies or assistants:
	Who will conduct public sffairs on econ-
omical and strictly business principles:
	Who will levy no higher taxes than are
absolutely needed for public expenses:
	Who will reduce salaries to figures con-
sonant with financial conditions, paying
only such compensation for public services
as would be paid in private business:
	Who will treat public trust as an honor
conferred, not an opportunity for privat gain.


We cordially invite the people of this
city of all parties, creeds and opinions to
join with us in this effort to establish an
efficient, economical, non-partisan munici-
pal government. In furtherance of this
effort we place in nomination the following
named persons to fill the various elective
municipal offices, to be voted for at the
coming election, pledging them our sup-
port and appealing to all patriotic citizens
to do likewise:
CITIZENS REFORM TICKET.
	Mayor—JOHN CLARK.
	Recorder—MISS JOAN SPRAGUE. 
	Treasurer—JOSEPH E. CAINE.
	Auditor—GEORGE SWAN.
	Attorney—PARLEY L. WILLIAMS.
	Police Justice—C. A. WOOLLEY.


