BY CLIO.
	IT was dinner time before the company
reached their destination, the banks of
the beautiful Silver Lake, set like a gem in
the tops of the verdure-clad, rock-ribbed
mountains The afternoon was occupied
in preparing for the celebration on the mor-
row. John Heplar worked with a will
gathering willows and boughs to help
make the three large boweries necessary for
the accommodation of the vast assembly;
also in bringing from the saw mill near by,
planks to form floors for the same. All
was at last prepared. The day god was
just sinking to rest in his couch of crimson
and amber when the shrill but sweet tones
of a bugle floated through the tremulous
air, followed by answering echoes as the
sound reverberated from crag to crag,
and peak to peak. It was a signal for the
people to gather around a small turf-clad
eminence, to listen to words of inspiration
by their leaders. It was a solemn and in-
spiring moment. In the dim twilight, sur-
rounded by the grandest and most beauti-
ful in nature, twenty-six hundred people
listened with devout looks and deepest
feeling, to the prayer offered by their be-
loved Brother Heber, as he plead for Zion
and dedicated the spot for the grand cele-
bration of religious liberty for her people.
And when later there stood before them
their prophet and leader, speaking boldly
for justice, thankfully for blessings received,


[Column 1]
prophetically of the great future, every
heart burned with gratitude and every lip
echoed and re-echoed a solemn amen to
his words of truth.
	A social dance was the program for the
evening. Hitherto John had been most
happy, for he had been very busy with lit-
tle time to brood over his troubles. Now
he felt like running away, wandering into
the surrounding solitude where he could be
alone with his thoughts. He had never
yet spoken to Grace, and what was a party
to him without her sweet companionship.
Not for worlds would he again experience
the misery of that last party. Then he re-
membered his experience on the banks
of the Jordan, and his feelings changed in
a moment from the deepest depression to
sweet anticipation. He quickly formulated
plans of procedure. He would remain and
take part in all exercises. He would treat
Grace in all respects as thougk nothing dis-
agreeable had transpired, with the excep-
tion that he would strictly suppress any-
thing of a lover-like nature. In accordance
with his resolutions he waited until Grace
had danced several times, then approached
her in the frankest and most natural man-
ner he could assume, (for it must be con-
fessed he found it necessary to assume in-
difference toward one whom he had come
to look upon almost as his exclusive
property,) and requested the pleasure of
a dance. To say that Grace was surprised
at this manɶuvre would but mildly express
her feelings. Yet that she was pleased
could be judged from the expression of her
face. Never before had John appeared to
as good advantage. Never had he assumed
in her presence so much of the outward
appearance of politeness. He had been
one of those who seem to pride themselves
on their bluntness, and uncouth behavior.
He had never been her ideal, far from it.
Yet in spite of his many faults, and to the
wonder of her friends and even herself, at
times, her heart had clung to him, hoping
against hope for his reformation. In spite
of her love, however, Miss Alison had a
large fund of common sense, and a still
larger reserve of religious sentiment. Per-
haps it was due to these that she could see
dimly through John Heplar’s rough exte-
rior to the genuine kernel within. How-
ever that might be, it was quite certain
that she would never throw herself away
upon a worthless character, if she knew of
his failings.
	The dance was quite uneventful, but
enjoyable. Grace was pleasant but not
talkative, and John was more than once at
his wits end to keep off an annoying and
awkward silence. He managed pretty
well, however, and later on, danced with
her again with a grain more satisfaction.
	Early next morning the camp was astir
with life and pleasurable anticipation.
The stars and stripes were run up on four
of the highest points in the vicinity, cannon
boomed, bands played, the people sang
praises and patriotic songs. There was
fervent prayer and heartfelt thanksgiving;
more singing; some speech making and
toasting; some military evolutions, the
whole finally culminating in a grand pic-
nic dinner. What a glorious time and
what a happy, grateful, patriotic people!
	The enjoyment was at its height; boat-
ing, strolling, singing and a dozen other
pastimes being in full blast, when atten-
tion was called to the approach of four
horsemen up the narrow, winding road

[Column 2]
leading from the city. Their weary,
travel-stained, but rather excited appear-
ance roused many conjectures as to who
they were, whence they came and what
might be their errand. The suspense was
not of long duration. Too soon was learn-
ed the startling intelligence that they were
well known and devoted brethren, who
had ridden hundreds of miles on horse-
back to bear tidings to their isolated peo-
ple in the fastnesses of the mountains.
And such tidings! The news flows from
lip to lip with great rapidity.—An army
is on its way to Utah to put down an in-
surrection among the Mormons! A host
of men en route over the prairies and
deserts to annihilate the handful of perse-
cuted saints who have taken refuge in the
tops of the mountains, a thousand miles
from civilization!
	There is no noise, no excitement; but
deep in every heart is a firm and settled
conviction of right and justice, and a firm
determination that this project must not be
allowed to culminate. The declaration of
their leader that the army shall not enter
the valley, finds an echo in every heart.
	The merriment goes on, though perhaps
it is rather more subdued. There are
speeches by prominent men, singing and
benediction, more dancing and a good
night’s rest preparatory to return on the
morrow.
	It is doubtful if the news of the advanc-
ing host affected any one more profoundly
than our friend John. He felt stunned.
The idea that after the robbings, murder-
ings, burnings and pillagings, and ravag-
ings which the people had undergone and
of which he had just been reading, of
the parent government which should have
been their protector, should without pre-
text, seek to annihilate their last remnants,
without cause or provocation, was more
than he could understand or bear patiently.
He felt as though he could fight the whole
army single handed, so great was his indig-
nation. So, when a few days later, a call
was made for volunteers to meet the enemy
on their way, he was among the first to
offer his services.
	“Why Brother John,” exclaimed his
Bishop, when young Heplar presented him-
self, “Is it possible you are willing to
fight the battles of a people whom you do
not like, and whom you have esteemed as
the wrong doers?”
	“Such is the case, Bishop Langly,” re-
plied John. “There are such things in
the world, you know, as a change of
mind.”
	“Good for you,” chimed in the Bishop’s
first counselor. “I always said that some
of our rough boys were jewels in disguise,
and held hearts of gold under their crusty
coats.”
	“Thank you, Brother Harper, I hope
you may prove a true prophet.”
	According to counsel, it became neces-
sary for our friend John to be re-baptized
before they set out on their perilous jour-
ney. It is not likely that he would have
thought of it, or done it if he had
thought, but inasmuch as many others
were to undergo the same ordinance, he
was on the whole, rather pleased than
otherwise.
	It is not necessary to go into the details
of the winter campaign in Echo Cañon; of
the hardships endured, and the lessons of
obedience and self-sacrifice learned by those
taking part. It is all a matter of history,

[Column 3]
and as such may be studied with profit by
those of a later day.
	The campaign came to an end as all
things do, and there arrived a day when
those brave men came marching home
again, crowned with the laurels of a blood-
less victory. It had been a time of trial to
the fiery spirit of our hero, and of other
impulsive individuals. But like ore from
the furnace he came forth purified, refined
and prepared for the summons which shortly
followed; that of a call to bear glad tidings
of great joy to a world which sat in dark-
ness.
	During the short period which passed be-
tween his return from military duty and his
departure for ecclesiastical labors, John
saw much of Grace Alison. There were
many balls and sociables in honor of those
returned and those about to depart; and
these naturally brought them together.
But he did not seek a renewal of old ties,
though there is small doubt but his advance
would have been received favorably by
that young lady in the face of what had
passed.
	He did not, however, yet feel sure of
himself, and while he had full faith in the
final accomplishment of his object, yet he
did not feel that he had a right to seek her
until he had fully proven himself worthy,
nor to bind her by a promise which she
might desire to break during his absence.
	A bitter struggle this resolve cost him;
but he came off victor, and bade good-bye
to her in common with his other lady
friends, without once having a word with
her in private.
	Poor Grace, lacking the upholding faith
of her lover, was in despair. Her love
during their estrangement, had grown
stronger and stronger as she saw signs of
the reformation she had so prayed for.
In his apparent coldness she imagined she
beheld a weakening of his love and of her
influence, and she sought in vain for the
clue. Not that she abated one whit in the
maidenly reserve in which she had clothed
herself, but in all legitimate channels had
sought to retain her hold upon the object
of her affections. The diminution of his
love seemed now so apparent that pride
came to her rescue, and she resolved to
take refuge in the same course. She had
many admirers and a little encouragement
to the most acceptable made him very de-
voted. But she was not happy and soon
gave him notice to leave. The only
crumb of comfort left was that John paid
no attention to any of the other girls, and
wrote only to his parents and one or two
male friends, always sending his love
equally to all his lady friends.
(Continued)


