HAWAII.

	HAWAII is a group, or rather a string of
sunny islands of a gentle tropical climate
with Mercury between 75 and 80 the year
round, embosomed midst the placid
waters of the Pacific, 2,100 miles south-
west from San Francisco and nearly the
same distance north from Tahita. An off-
spring of the sea, the result of volcanic
upheavals, their origin verified by extinct
craters fastened here and there amidst the
hills and on the mountain hights of the
group, and by the still blazing fires of that
molten lake—the fiery Kilauea. Of the
ten islands two are little more than barren
rocks, two are used exclusively as cattle
ranges, and the six principal ones are
luxurious in bloom and beauty.
	Their extreme boundaries are about
300 miles apart and their aggregate
area a little more than 6,100 square miles.
This little “land of mystery” meets the
eye of the approaching voyager like a land
of dreams suddenly raised from the misty
waters by the spirits of the deep, or like
the mirage sun bathed and clothed in ver-
dure and peopled with sirens as luring may
be as were the tormentors of the ancient
Ulysses. Veiled in vapors that forever
cling to the lofty brow of the “Pali” an
ideal Paradise that reveals upon approach
a delightful reality. A place of stately
palms, tropical foliage and fern-embowered
by-paths, of gorgeous flowers and luscious
fruits, and a dusky, kind hearted people
whose lives, were it not for exotic influ-
ences, would be almost Edenesque, yet
withal a race that within a century has
dwindled from a healthy, happy nation—
nature’s own children—to a scattering few,
landless and poverty pressed.
	From lonely and sheltered nooks, where
his voice mingles with the murmur of the
lapping waves upon the whitened sand of
his beloved shores, the forgiving and spirit-
less Kauaka chants the “Meles” of his
shadowy past, rich in legendary lore and
peopled with gods and goddesses, divinely
endowed with wonderful powers and sym-
bolized within the sacred doors of their
temples. The traveler and tourist has
been proud to fill his cabinet with rare and
curious relics of the Islander’s mythical
past; relics of legends, reaching back a
thousand years or more; laes, kahilis, idols
and kapa cloth, emblems that have bedeck-
ed the skeleton breast of some long ago
hero chief, and bones and charms that have
gathered the dust of generations in the rock
sepulchers, protected by the rigorous
“tabu.”
	The royal mantle worn by the late King
Kalakaua during his coronation ceremonies
is a wonderful garment rare and beautiful,
composed entirely of small yellow feathers,
only one of which is found under the wing
of a small bird called Mamo. Tens of
thousands of feathers enter into the fabrica-
tion of this royal mantle, but few of which
now remain, emblems of Hawaiian patience,
skill and kingly glory.
	The botanist searching in nooks and


crannies following along picturesque by-
paths, finds a continual unfolding of new
delights. Among other rarities the
shrinking sensitive plant, and a wondrous
variety of delicate ferns. Most of the use-
ful and ornamental growth of the tropics
flourish among the deep foliage of the hills,
some of strong and rugged growth which
may be utilized for canoes and building
materials. The bread fruit, ohiei, guava,
bananna, papaia, mango, tamarind, orange and
other trees are clothed in perpetual green,
with stately palms between them and the
sea, gracefully bending their broad leaves
before the ocean-blown breeze.
	The valuable and fragrant sandal wood
once flourished on the plateaus and hill
slopes but in early commerce with the
whites it became an article of exchange
with the Chinese and to gratify the avarice
of King Kalakaua, to bedeck his royal self
and poi-fed wives with Oriental silks and
velvet, this classic and stately tree was
swept from the islands. A forlorn little
shrub with a faded pink blossom struggling
for existence in some forgotten spot is all
that remains of what was once a source of
Hawaiian wealth and pride. Where the
“lois” of thriving taro and sweet potato
were once the natives care, the cane and
coffee fields bespeak the prosperity of the
progressive “houri.”
	Native products as well as the people bear
evidence of deterioration. Since the advent of
cheap calicoes and shoddy cloth the Kanaka
no more estimates his wealth by his kapa
cloth and mattrasses of beaten bark and
woven rushes. This little archipeligo was
a stranger to the civilized world until the
closing years of the last century and the
race for many years, exchanged no word or
product with the rest of mankind. Their
origin may be traced to the ancient Cushites
of Arabia and their legends repeat the story
of the Jewish Genesis their implements of
industry and war were made of wood, stone
and bone, yet crude as they were, with
them they fought great battles, erected
temples to their gods, and constructed
barges and canoes which they navigated by
the stars. After the custom of the ancient
Israelites they built places of refuge, and
submitted to the decrees of the prophets,
firmly believing in their revelations and
prophecies. The elements were symbolized
by deities, and today after sixty years of
Christian teaching, when their temples are
destroyed and their priesthood dethroned
in a great measure, belief in their gods still
remains. Many of the natives still super-
stitiously throw offerings of fruit etc. into
the lurid depths of the awful, ever restless
caldron of Kilauea, many of them, too,
sicken, grow weak and pale under the con-
viction that one possessing priestly power
is offering prayers and incantations for their
death.
	“Pele,” a deity possessing great powers,
was greatly dreaded and feared. Her abode
was on the island of Hawaii in the lava
caves and fiery crevices of the different
volcanoes, visiting each at her pleasure.
Her anger was easily evoked and she would
cause streams of burning lava to flow from
Her volcanoes upon the lands of such as
neglected to feed her craters with suitable
offerings. Sometimes she would clothe her-
self in the form of a beautiful woman and
seek human association, and many are the
romantic stories of her love affairs and dar-
ing escapades. In 1791 a portion of the
army of Keona near the crater of Kil-

[Column 2]
auea was suffocated and Pele was accredit-
ed with this dreadful piece of work. A
more recent exibition of her powers occured
in 1882 in the village of Hilo, a devastating
stream of lava from Menna Loa had swept
downward twenty-five miles or more and
its line of descent was slowly but steadily
approaching the little town. Much labor
was expended in precautionary efforts and
many fervent prayers were offered, and still
the dreadful avalanche of fire continued
creeping onward and downward. Ruth, a
sister of the late Kamehamehas, was then
living in Honolulu and learning of the
threatened danger, chartered a steamer and
with her retinue left for the terror stricken
Hilo. Upon arriving she declared that
Pele would not refuse to listen to the pray-
ers of a Kemehaha, saying “I will save the
fish ponds of Hilo.” An altar was built
upon an elevation back of the village and
facing the still moving flow of lava. Here
she made her supplications and offerings to
the wrathful goddess. With confidence
and dignity she descended the hill and
returned to Honolulu, and with her depart-
ure the stream of fire ceased in its onward
course and the rough, glistening wall of
black lava stands an evidence of Pele’s
wrath and the faith of the stern, proud,
old chiefess, and though the temples of the
goddess were distroyed many, many years
before, still the natives whisper “’tis the
work of Pali.”
	Moving by way of of the Samoan and
Society Islands a great migratory wave
reached the Hawaiian shores about
the middle of last century. Naumala, a
distinguished chief, was the first to arrive
from the Southern isles. Other chiefs fol-
lowed and for several generations they lived
sequestered lives with no exchange what-
ever with the rest of the world. During
intervals of several hundred years other
migratory tides came sweeping from the
southward, and romantic and political con-
flict give plentiful material for legends of
valor and romance. On December 18th,
1877, Captain Cook, an officer in the Eng-
lish navy, sighted Oahu and upon landing 
was received by the people as a reincarna-
tion of their god Lono. The priests led
him to their temples and accorded him
divine honors. However, petty quarrels
between the sailors and the natives resulted
in more serious trouble, and finally Cap-
tain Cook with four of his men were killed,
but not eaten, as so many are disposed to
believe. It is not true that the Kanaka’s
were ever Cannibals. When the question
was put to them by Captain Cook’s men
they were horrified, and asked in return if
such was the custom among the whites.
There is no existing evidence that they
ever ate human flesh.
	In 1820 the first party of Christian mis-
sionaries arrived at the Islands from Mass-
achusetts, they were well received and
found the work of conversion easy. Other
missionaries followed from time to time,
acquired homes and substantial possessions
and controlled the government, and their
descendants are now among the prosper-
ous and influential of the Islands Church-
es, schools and printing presses have been
established and the native language has
become a written one, a growing business
interest has been developed as the years 
have passed, modern homes have supplant-
ed to a great extent the primitive grass
hut. The steam fire department, the rail-
way, the telephone and the electric ligh

[Column 3]
system all betokens the progress and civil-
ization under whose restraints and sur-
roundings the dark-skinned native is slowly
but surely sinking. The loathsome and
incurable leprosy carried thither by the
Chinese taints their blood, and in their
peaceful conflicts with other forces they
have become a dwindling, thriftless race.
Their footsteps are becoming weaker on the
wave-washed beach, and the echoes of their
weird “meles” and songs of aloho are
growing fainter and fainter among the fern
clad hills. To them and their romantic
past, their legends and sweet, simple music 
we can only say “aloho and aloho nui.”
