IN MEMORY OF THE JUBILEE.
				I
WITH what shall we garland the victor’s head,
When he comes with the spoils of war?
With poppies aflame and with jonquils red,
And cypress that waves o’er the buried dead,
Weave a wreath for the conqueror.
But twine for our heroes, who bravely trod
The deserts for freedom and truth and God,
Our Jasons who captured toil’s golden fleece—
For these—the white-hearted lilies of peace.
				  II.
Green girdled by orchards and corn-wreathed 
	farms,
How their “City of Beauty” smiled!
They whispered farewell to home’s sheltering
	arms;
To welcome gaunt hardship, and dread alarms
From the Indian, fierce and wild —
For glory, men dare the red battle plain;
The miner for gold rends the mountains in twain;
Adventure’s sharp prows cleave the cold, North-
	ern seas;—
But Duty’s white hand waved summons to thee.
				III
In freedom’s strong might, they followed on still
Where pavilions of sunset glowed: 
Faith marked the road over prairie and hill;
Hope waved her wand, and each tear-drop of ill
A rain-bow of promise bestowed.
The “Father of Waters” rolled darkling by,
And turbid Missouri made angry reply;—
But clear came the Voice: “Fear not the deep 
	sea,
For passing through rivers, Lo, I am with thee.”
				IV
Through arid plains tracking their devious way,
Over alkaline regions drear,
The antelope sprang over the dewy spray, 
The lean prairie-wolf snarled o’er his prey, 
Wild buffalo herded near;—
But fearlessly forward the pilgrims stept;—
The golden-eyed stars the night-watches kept,
And light-mantled morning’s celestial ray
The reveille sounded at dawning of day.
				V
They passed through the valley of Baca, and
	hewed
In its depths a life giving well;
Then sang Zion’s songs in wild solitude,
Where Nature’s stone turrets enchanted stood

[Column 2]
’Neath Sublimity’s silent spell. 
Oh fair as highlands of Paradise, seemed
The valley where Jordan’s bright waters
	gleamed,—
Where rolled the Salt Lake its billows along;
ehovah’s great name its perpetual song.
				VI
As maple leaves fall in Autumn’s bright glow,
Gathered back to their parent soil:—
So touched by the frosts that all earth lives know,
In manhood’s full prime, or time’s silvery snow, 
Utah’s pioneers ceased from toil.
They passed from the “City of Saints” to gain 
	The “City of Souls;” a few here remain,
And sweetly, in rich, ripened vintage attest 
Life’s beautiful Indian summer of rest.
				VII.
“They builded their monument loftier far
Than the Pyramid’s royal site,—
More lasting than brass;”—for the victories are,
As oft as returns harvests golden car,
Rewritten in letters of light.
Blest gift of their toil, the desert spring flows;
The wilderness solitudes bloom as the rose;
The grape’s chalice fills with memorial wine,
And flowers, swinging censers, hallow their
	shrine.
				VIII.
’Twas well for us all, with glad jubilee,
To enshrine the memorial year,
With Love’s votive paeans of soft melody, 
To prove Utah’s pioneers never can be
To the hearts of her children less dear.
Sweet music poured forth its proudest refrains,
And banners waved wide over hill-tops and
	plains,—
The resonant note from the organ’s deep throat
Sent swelling afloat, hallelujah strains.
				IX
Bright gardens mingled their choicest display
With the Sego-lily bells fair;
The silk and the gold of great Solomon’s day,
With treasure untold and costly array,  
Could never such vesture prepare. 
The roses unfolded their hearts of perfume;
The passionate glow of the cactus found room,
While crimson and green, and rainbow-dyed
	sheen,
Proved Utah the queen of fragrance and bloom.
With splendor of blossom and richness of grain
With nectar-filled spheres of the vine,—
Such fruitage of farm, and orchard and plain.
Epicurus might charm—Golconda again
Be revived in the ores from the mine—
Diana’s fleet deer, with its silver feet,
And its golden horns left its cast complete
In our Wasatch hills, where full-bosomed rills,
With clangor of mills, the treasure repeat.
Thrice Hail favored state of the golden West!
The all-ruling Ancient of Days.
Who guiding above, gave the pioneers rest,
Whose banner is love, will bless and hath blest—
Still sing to Him anthems of praise! 
God wrought wondrous things for them and for
	thee!—
Tell the proud story o’er mountain and sea,
How the jubilant throng moved to music along.
With triumphant song,—
				Hallelujah! Jubilee!
