THE WOMAN PREACHER.

UPON a time, not long remote,
Some ministers of good repute,
Set out to make a pilgrimage—
And rest their brains so wise and sage,
To gain a respite from their cares,
And surcease from their many prayers,
To see the world, on pleasure bent,
They journeyed to the Orient.

But here, we should not fail to state
This little party numbered eight
Seven reverend gentlemen,
And one fair reverend woman.
They traveled far o’er sea and land,
O’er briny waves, and desert sand,
But when they reached Genoa’s shore
They paused, its beauties to scan o’er.

These reverend sires with one accord,
Paid tribute to fair Anna’s Lord. 
And Anna too, their homage shared—
Though each one secretly declared
His great desire to play a joke
On one who ne’er had borne man’s yoke.
Thus while on fair Genoa's soil,
They sought the hours to beguile.

It chanced that while they lingered here,
Some other vessels too were near—
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
Whose captain came for them to pray,
Give a text and friendly greeting,
And with the sailors hold a meeting.
So fa'e, it seems, with fertile plan,
Is ready e’er to help vain man.

At this time the rev’rend woman
Was ashore on duties human—
To soothe the sick, relieve the poor,
Drive cold and want from many a door,
And wi h a woman’s sympathy
Let their burdened spirits free,
While her companions sought to frame
Some lofty scheme to aid the same.

Now this request the captain made
Just helped the plans they oft had laid,
And there at once they did determine
To have the woman give the sermon;
That when before them she stood dumb,
They'd to her rescue bravely come,
And show the vast superior lore
Of manly brains, as ne’er before.

So when the captain sought their aid
In things divine they warmly said:
“One of our number is away,
One, who most has power to pray
For sinners on the downward road,
And lead them to that blest abode.
So we your message will convey
To our good friend. Ahem—Good day.”

[Column 2]
Then when the reverend Anna came,
With inward mirth and sportive game,
They told her, how she more than all,
Was honored by the captain’s call. 
Though woman-like, and modest too,
She could not quite all pride subdue,
Yet with profound and solemn thought,
Her Father’s aid in prayer she sought.

The morning dawned, serene and fair,
Seraphic incense filled the air,
The ocean, wi e in placid rest,
With scarce a ripple on its breast.
A sacred hush enrapt the ear[-]h,
Where holy thoughts must fain have birth.
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
In calm, and peace, t at Sabbath day.

With expectation on each face
The crew came in with measured pace,
Arranged themselves in groups sedate,
But long they did no have to wait;
For soon the preacher was brought forth—
A woman too! of grace and worth.
The captain stared, confused and grieved,
To find himself so much deceived.
A muttering murmur passed around,
And sneers on every face were found,
Save those reverend gen[-]lemen,
All were filled with discontent.

Down deep within her woman’s soul
A troubled wave began to roll
Yet firm, and brave, and strong, and true,
An inspiration rolled there too.
Deep resolves to stand undaunted,
Turn the tide on those who vaunted.
One moment quietly she stood
And breathed a fervent prayer to God,

Then on the air, so rich and full
Her voice rang out, to thrill each soul,
Her words so gentle, yet so strong,
Burst on their ears like sweetest song.
A magic spell seemed on them wrought
Their minds by retrospection caught.
Bore each one back to love and home,
Ere they had ever thought to roam.

Then with divinest eloquence—
Pure truth her aim, and sure defence;
With subtle power, step by step,
She sought to reach the inmost depth
Of fountains, long since still and dry;
And lift each heart, to God on high;
Unclasp the seal of memories vault,
That each might see his gravest fault.

She led them back to father’s side,
When they, his greatest joy and pride,
Had looked on him in fiilal love,
As next to Father up above.
She bade them think in reverent mood
Of one, who taught them first of God,
When in their childhood, pure and free,
They learned to pray at mother’s knee.

And how those parents, fond and true,
Ere they had bade that last adieu,
Had begged, and prayed them earnestly,
To keep themselves from evil free.
Fond brothers too, do not forget
Nor how the sister’s eyes are wet
With yearning tears, and hopes and love,
For him who thought it best to rove.

[Column 3]
She bade them think of sweethearts fair,
Waiting still in love and prayer,
Whose pligh ed troths were freely given,
As the gentle dews of Heaven.
The faithful wife, in care and grief,
Wh se dreadful fears find no relief,
In secret tears—to all unknown—
E’er wa ting for her love’s return,

She pleads with them in strong appeal,
To mend their ways with ardent zeal,
That on that blest home coming time,
Pure hearts and true, and lives sublime
Will cheer and bless the waiting ones,
And for their grief bring full returns;
So Father’s approbating smile
Will beam, and cheer all hearts the while.
Near the front in foremost row
An old man sat, with head bent low,
And still upon his sunbrowned face,
She yet, no softening lines could trace—
To right or left he did not turn,
Unmoved, defiant, cold and stern,
While all around emotion woke,
Strong hearts were t[-]uched and deep sobs
	broke.

She said perchance some seaman here,
May children have who love you dear,
Whose last embrace you feel e’en yet;
And see those eyes so sad and wet.
Those lisping words you still may hear,
While loving lips to yours draw near,
So real and true it all doth seem,
You cannot think it is a dream!

Now while you see this vision bright,
Made brighter by diviner light—
Resolve to make it real and true,
And nobler, holi r paths pursue,
That all this earthly b iss and love,
Be sanctified by God above.
From sin and sorrow thus made free,
And live throughout eternity.

With hands, and heart, and softening eye
Raised to the Fath[-]r’s throne on high,
In solemn prayer the soft words fall,
A benediction on them all
Lower and lower fell her tones
Till lost a length ’mid sobs and moans,
All hearts were touched the old man too
Wept and pray d he might prove true.

The crew the captain e’en the guests,
Closed round their pleasure to express,
Pressed her h nds, and al declared,
So good a speech they ne’er had heard
And there, and [-]hen, these gen[-]lemen,
Told all, how they had conquered been,
And pardon craved for ill designs,
Along such tender, sacred lines.
