WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 2, 1897, President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “Let those who would be Saints in-
deed.”
	President Horne was very sorry to see so
few here this afternoon but thought it was
owing to the near approach of conference.
Felt there were enough for a blessing and
said this was a trying time for the Saints,
that when we first came here to the valley
that was a trying time but the present time
was the more so. Now was the time to be
tested; now was the time to catechise our-
selves and look into our own hearts. Spoke
of the way we were being tried and perse-
cuted by extremely high taxes. She was
surprised that some of our people would
quarrel and wrangle over politics. We 
should ask our Heavenly Father which
course to take and trust to Him, and to go
to Him humbly and He would hear us.
Spoke in favor of the Non-Partisan ticket, 
said for years she had been in favor of hav-
ing a party that was non-partisan, and said
President D. H. Wells said that the women
were a power in the land. Made some ex-
cellent remarks on this subject. Felt if we
all who were here, though few, testified to
the goodness of God we would be blest.
	The minutes having arrived were read
and accepted.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt that President
Horne had dwelt on many precious subjects
especially that of praying for light on this
coming election. Spoke beautifully on
prayer, and said many times the feeling of
prayer would come over us and at the time
we might be busy, still she felt that the
thought ascended up to heaven and was
accepted. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer
in the case of President Woodruff’s daugh-
ter. Said many times our prayers were not
answered but when this was the case the
Lord would show us that it was better for
us not to have what we had prayed for.
Urged the sisters to fully trust Him, and
said nothing that comes to us would harm
us but would turn to blessings on our
heads. Referred to the vision that Joseph
and Hyrum Smith had when they saw their
mother home praying for them, at the time
when they had the cholera.
	Sister M. O. Brown spoke on prayer, said
she loved to pray and thought nothing
brought to her the comfort that prayer did.
Spoke on asking counselfrom those in
authority.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had
enjoyed the prayer of Sister Wright which
was a sermon in itself, also the remarks of
our President. She had only just got
home from a trip in the country. Gave a
very interesting account of her trip in the
interest of the Relief Society work. Urged
the sisters to be humble and prayerful and
to be true to one another, thought it was
dreadful to have hard feelings towards any
one, but if such were the case it was our
duty to go to the person, or persons, and
make it right. Spoke of the duty of
mothers and urged the sisters to bear their
testimony.
	Sister Wright felt we should let nothing
come along to prevent us from coming to
these meetings. When she was a little
girl her father taught her to pray, and used
to tell her to never let the sun get down on
her anger for she might never see it again.
Spoke of a recent conversation she had
with a lady stranger, felt she had done
some little good in doing so. Rejoiced in
her Temple work and prayed she might
always remain faithful.
	Sister E. Webb felt Sister Wright had
given us very good advice about leaving
our household cares and attending our
meetings. Said many times she had left
dinner dishes as well as the wash tub to
attend her meeting because she felt it was
her duty. Felt sorry that there was so
much strife and division in politics as there
is, and spoke of the happy time we used to
enjoy when this was not the case. Spoke
on prayer and said there was nothing that
gave such comfort as going off by ourselves
and asking our Heavenly Father to help
us; also spoke of the anxiety that mothers
felt for their children and of the joy her
Temple work brought to her, said it help-
ed her to bear the burdens of life, for we all
had them. Urged the sisters to come here.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt she had been
blest in coming here this afternoon, many
precious things had been spoken. Made
some very pleasing remarks.
	Sister Lizzie Decker said she felt she
must speak of the goodness of God to her,
and said she never could have lived if it
had not been that she could go to the Lord
and ask Him for help. Referred to her
Temple work and the benefit it had been to
her, also spoke of her anxiety for her child-
ren and asked the blessing of Heaven upon
us.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the faith
of her little grand-daughter who was very
much afflicted with scarlet fever, she said
she knew if they would send her name to
her Sunday school to be prayed for she
would be healed. This was done and she
was healed almost instantly.
	Testimonies were borne by Sisters Sarah
Phelps and Alice Woolley. President Horne
made some excellent closing remarks and
meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Singing ‘‘From all that dwell below.”
Benediction by Sister Lula G. Richards.
