BY CLIO.
	JOHN HEPLAR walked straight on and
on—too deeply absorbed in his own
thoughts to heed where his feet were carry-
ing him. The conversation with Brother
Harper had made a deep impression upon
him, and he was trying to bring his rebel-
lious, heart to that point of humbleness
which would allow him to follow his ad-
vice. He walked on and on—past the
suburbs and outlying farms, until he reach-
ed the river. Here his steps were neces-
sarily stayed. He flung himself down on
the bank, and began throwing pebbles into
the water. This occupation not proving
diverting, he arose, sought a copse of wil-
lows, and flung himself on his knees, and
tried to pray. The result was something
after this wise:
	“Oh, Lord, if it is true that there is a
Lord. If thou dost live I am thy child
and thou hast placed me here for some pur-
pose. Thy servant has said to seek thee,
and it would not be in vain. Help me to
know my duty and do it. Amen.”
	His prayer was brought to a sudden
close by the sound of splashing water. He
sprang to his feet and rushed from his re-
treat, the thought uppermost in his mind
that he had been discovered. But it
proved to be only two cows splashing and
browsing among the reeds and grass of the
opposite shore. He heaved a sigh of relief,
and threw himself lengthwise on the
ground under the shade of some dwarf wil-
lows. It was a still and drowsy afternoon,
highly propitious to revery and—slumber.
	Already he felt better and lighter in his
spirit. His prayer had been anything but
humble, but it had been exceedingly sin-
cere. It had been a fierce demand for jus-
tice, rather than a humble petition for grace
and mercy. And in this, it was a sort of
reflex of his character. He was so beset
with failings and foibles, yet withal had so
great a desire to do right, that the conflict
had begotten a spirit of defiance, which,
though painful enough to its possessor, was
destined to bring him out of the toils.
	He lay musing on his situation, his hat
pulled over his eyes, until the drowsy,
murmur of the wild bees and the gentle,
lapping of the water on the banks, lulled
him to sleep. How long he thus lay, un-
conscious of external things, he never
knew. But when he awoke and sprang to

[Column 2]
his feet, there was a glad light in his eyes,
and a joy in his heart such as he had never
known. In answer to his prayer, God had
seen fit to pour out his comforting influence
upon him until he felt that he could go
through fire and water to attain the object
which he knew in his heart was possible if
he could but overcome the obstacles which
lay before him.
	He walked homeward with a brisk and
elastic step, formulating plans by the way,
all of which faded into the background as
new ones made their appearance. One
thing he did firmly resolve in his mind,
however, and that was that he should never
again seek after Grace until he should sur-
mount those things which had appeared to
him as obstacles in his path.
	He could not, however, make up his
mind to treat her as a stranger. She had
too long occupied the citadel of his heart
and feelings to be easily torn from that
position. Nor did he desire to do so, but
rather to strengthen the fortress of love by
every legitimate means.
	To this end he set to work. He had
never liked the prosy life of farming, pur-
sued by his father, and had been wont to
shirk all that was possible, so that he had
gained the reputation of being somewhat
lazy. This was not a true estimate. He
was, on the contrary, full of energy, but it
had hitherto been turned into the wrong
channel. All this he knew must be chang-
ed, and though his distaste for the employ-
ment was at this time as strong as ever, he
manfully strove against it and sought to
become interested, or at least to appeal so
until something better turned up. Great
was the wonder and satisfaction of his lov-
ing parents; great the wonder and dissatis-
faction of his former associates, at the
change. His spare moments he devoted to
the study of theology. This necessarily
led him into the past history of his people,
and he was surprised to find how ignorant
he was of events which he had considered
familiar as household words, and which he
had often voted a bore when he had heard
them discussed by the “old fogies” of his
ward. It made him blush now, even when
alone, to think of the disrespectful words,
he had used in relation to those brave, de-
voted, but unfortunate men and women
who had sacrificed so much for the sake of
their beloved religion. Not that he was
yet converted. Not by any means. But it
had been shown to him the path he must
pursue to gain the krowledge he desired,
and he had bravely essayed to accomplish
it.
	Two weeks thus passed away, and John
was becoming more and more interested in
researches. He had proven himself wrong 
so many times that he now began to doubt
whether he was correct in any of his opin-
ions. He had never gone to the great
Source of Wisdom for light again, so his
task was much harder than it would have 
been otherwise. He had isolated himself
entirely from the society of the young peo-
ple for nearly three weeks so that when
the morning of the 22nd of July came


[Column 1]
around, bright and beautiful, and he saw
preparations going forward for a grand
celebration of Pioneer Day in the Big Cot-
tonwood Canyon, he was fain to accom-
pany them, regardless of a former resolu-
tion to stay at home. He did not decide,
however, until the army of merry-makers
had fairly started on their journey. The
inspiring sounds of various martial and
brass bands made his bosom swell with a
feeling unknown before. The sight of the
long procession of wagons, carriages, caval-
ry and foot-passangers, old and young,
brought a lump into his throat and tears to
his eyes, though he knew not why. Per-
haps it brought to his mind forcibly, the ac-
counts he had been reading of the long
exodus of these self-same people from the
fertile East, to the barren West. What-
ever the cause, the feeling was there and
he was not able to quell it. There were
few people left in the town, and it looked
lonely and deserted. Grace had gone; he
had caught the first glimpse of her face since
he had parted from her, as she rode by in
her father’s wagon. He had just presence of
mind enough to bow, but for the life of him
he could not call up even the ghost of a
smile. He fancied, too, that she looked
sad and troubled, but then, he thought,
it might be only his imagination. As he
stood debating in his mind whether to go
or stay, the words of Grace uttered at
their last meeting came to him, “And if I
grant it,” (her pardon for his last offence)
“what guarantee have I that the same
scene will not be re enacted on the very
next holiday.” The words had stung him
at the time, as the truth is apt to do.
They stung him yet, so much so that the
thought decided him. He would go, and
prove to Grace that he could and would
behave himself, even on so hilarious an oc-
casion as a twenty-fourth of July celebra-
tion. In a short time he had his horse sad-
dled and was cantering after the retreating
train.
	“Why John,” said his mother, as he
drew rein beside his father’s wagon, “I
thought you were not coming.” But not-
withstanding her words, the light of pleas-
ure beamed from her loving eyes upon her
son as she spoke
	“Well mother mine,” he responded
cheerfully, “you see when you were all
gone and everything looked so lonely, I
couldn’t resist the temptation to come after
you, and here I am.”
	“You always did go after your mother
when you were a little shaver, so I guess
you hav’nt changed so much after all,”
said his father, with a kind smile.
	“We’re glad to have you along any
how,” said his mother. “That’s true,”
responded his father, “and so long’s
you’re after your mother, you won’t get
into mischief that’s certain.”
	There was a pleasant laugh all around at
this broad compliment of a loving husband
to a devoted wife, and all jogged along
merrily to a place selected for a camping
place, at the mouth of the canon. Then
came the bustle of camp life, the unhitch-
ing of teams, gathering of wood, making
of fires and preparations for supper. But
there was no excitement, no jarring, no
accidents; all moved along harmoniously
and peacefully, every age, sex and condi-
tion seeming to plume themselves for the
exigencies of the occasion. After supper
there was music and singing, story telling
and recounting of old scenes until the call
for prayers put an end to them and all re-

[Column 2]
tired for the night. The next morning
after an early breakfast, the vast company
prepared to ascend the long, rough narrow,
winding passage, known as “the stairs.”
In all of the duties devolving upon the
men and boys of the company, John
took an active part. And even in the
more feminine tasks of cooking and wash-
ing dishes, he might be seen lending a
hand when nothing more serious claimed
his attention. The strange part of it was
that he took pleasure in it. Never before
could he be persuaded to take part in any
public enterprise of the kind, even by his
presence; and here he was, the busiest of
the busy, flying around here and there, his
finger in every pie and his heart in the
whole thing.
(Continued)


