				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, August 20, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne said another two weeks
had rolled around, and we were permitted
to come together again. A sister had said
she thought when she, Sister Horne, passed
away these meetings would end, but there
were others who felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt her usefulness was not
lived out yet. These meetings were a
great blessing and she hoped we would all
feel the necessity of attending. Spoke of
the great plan the Prophet Joseph Smith
had formed in turning west, and Brigham
Young had carried out, and we were now
enjoying their labors. Spoke of the thou-
sands who had been gathered out and the
indifference of the people now. Gave the
parable of the sower, and would like to live
to see Zion purified. Made many instructive
remarks.
	Sister Davis knew the Gospel was
true; needed a blessing and thought she
would receive one today.
	Sister Phelps knew the words of the
prophet had been fulfilled, we had many
years of experience and we ought to be
better people. Spoke of the indifference of
the rising generation, our lack of faith in
healing, and hoped the Lord would help all
those who made the effort to do right.
	Sister Maria B. Barnes had been forty-
two years in the Church, her faith had
been strengthened by the healing of her
daughter; had been prayed for in the
House of God and been restored, wanted to
do what was right and bore a strong testi-
mony.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said the greater 
efforts and sacrifices we made, the greater
our blessings would be. Felt it was our duty 
to speak of the goodness of God, quoted from
the Book of Mormon and said the sisters
needed to be missionaries as much as the
brethren, and they had a work to perform
in Zion. She was trying to redeem her
kindred dead, and felt blessed in having 
the testimonies of the sisters. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson had looked
forward to this meeting, as she had been
absent from the last. She had been in the
Church forty-three years and felt she had so
much to be thankful for; felt to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things,
and knew that those who had attended
these meetings had grown in grace. She
felt the good spirit that was here. Let us
uphold Sister Zina and Sister Horne in
our prayers. Spoke in regard to mothers
having a watchful care over their children
and praying for the boys that were on mis-
sions.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and said she had many things to
be thankful for. Another sister in the
congregation felt she would be condemned
if she did not express her thankfulness  to
her Heavenly Father for His goodness.
She knew the Lord blessed the sisters in
these meetings.
	Sister Frink thought we lost our inter-
est when we stayed from our meetings; ex-
pressed her gratitude to God in leading her
through the struggle of life, and the bless-
ings of the Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and gave her expression of

[Column 2]
thankfulness. Sister J. T. Carrington spoke
on the Patriarchal order of marriage and
the benefit of these meetings; bore her testi-
mony. Another sister spoke of the good-
ness of God to her and prayed for Aunt
Zina and Sister Horne.
	Sister Horne closed by saying she was
edified with the testimonies of the sisters.
Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction, by Sister Clara C. Can-
non.
