VISIT AND MEETINGS.

			MANTI. June 30.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	KNOWING your interest in Relief Soci-
ety work, I venture to send you a brief re-
port of this Stake of Zion.
	Two weeks ago our honored President,
M. A. Hyde, accompanied by her counsel-
ors began their annual tour of the county.
They left Manti early Wednesday morning
holding their initial meeting in Sterling at
10 a. m. The Relief Society of this place

[Column 2]
is few in number, but the president, Sister
Libbie Thompson, has the spirit of her
calling, and although having the usual
difficulties incident to isolated and scattered
communities to meet, she is doing a good
work.
	At 2:30 p. m. the sisters met with the
Relief Society of Mayfield in their com-
modious hall, which was well attended by
both old and young. Sister Olsen, the
president, has had much experience in Re-
lief Society work and is energetic and
judicious in the discharge of her duties.
	After enjoying the kindly hospitality of
the people of Mayfield till Thursday morn-
ing the party drove to Fayette, holding
meeting in the new Relief Society hall at 1
o’clock with nearly all the members pre-
sent, as well as the young ladies. The
president, Sister Eliza Bartholomew, was
for many years the energetic president of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Fayette, and is keen-
ly alive to the duties of her present office
and has an efficient aid in her husband, the
worthy Bishop.
	The next appointment was at Gunnison
at 8 p. m. The weather was quite cold
and disagreeable, and the cheery pitch-pine
fire which greeted our entrance into
Bishop Madsen’s dining room was only
equaled by the warm welcome extended
by the Bishop and his wife, who is the
president of the Relief Society and is very
energetic in her field of labor	Our meet-
ing in the evening was well attended and
a good spirit prevailed. Friday morning
we visited South Gunnison and held meet-
ing at 10 o’clock, returning to Manti in the
afternoon. On Wednesday June 23, Sister
Hyde returned to Salt Lake City, feeling
unable to continue the journey around the
Stake.
	Her counselors, however, completed the
trip, beginning at Ephraim on Wednesday
morning at 10 a. m. The sisters were
much gratified that President Peterson was
able to meet with them and also join them
at dinner at the hospitable home of Sister
Ellen Dorius, the Senior Relief Society
president of Ephraim. The sisters of
Ephraim are still maintaining their old-
time reputation for faithfulness and good
works.
	Our next meeting was in Fairview at 8
p. m., which was well attended. Here as
in other wards we had visited we found the
sisters up and doing, and especially zealous
in storing grain. The president, Sister
Pritchett, is advanced in years and in feeble
health, but her hands are well sustained by
two faithful and energetic counselors, Sisters
Peterson and Tucker.
	Thursday morning we drove to Milburn
where we were kindly welcomed. Our
meeting was not so well attended as on
former occasions owing to sickness. How-
ever, a good spirit prevailed and the Presi-
dent, although she has a large family, al-
ways seems equal to the occasion. We left
our team at Milburn and took the train for
Indianola, held a short meeting with the
sisters there, returning to Milburn on the
south-bound train as we were due at Mt.
Pleasant in the evening. Our meeting in
this city was not so well attended as usual
owing to a large wedding reception which
was in progress and to which a large pro-
portion of the people were invited. The
president, Sister Morrison, in spite of her
advanced age and feeble health is an up-to-
date president, and is always among the
foremost to respond to every call, and is
diligent in good works.


Friday morning we met as per appoint-
ment with the good sisters of Moroni, who
have purchased a building lot and are con-
templating the erection of a Relief Society
hall. We also found them diligent all
along the lines of Relief Society work.
	In the evening we held meeting in
Fountain Green which was fairly well at-
tended in spite of a wedding reception at
which we were invited to be present at the
close of our meeting. We spent a very en-
joyable hour with the young people, and
were royally entertained. Sister Johnson,
the president, although advanced in years
is still diligent and energetic, and is plan-
ning to build a hall in the near future.
Altogether the Society seemed in a prosper-
ous condition.
	We left Fountain Green early Saturday
for Wales, where we arrived in good time for
our appointment. We were pleased to find
that the president, Sister Midgely, had
nearly recovered from a long illness. We
had an interesting meeting and a pleasant
visit with the sisters at the hospitable home
of Bishop Reese.
	We held our last meeting in Chester at
2:30. The president, Sister Olive Acord,
had been working at a disadvantage since
our last visit owing to the illness of one of
her counselors and the removal from town
of the other. The vacancy was filled, and
many encouraging words were spoken, and
altogether we had a very pleasant time.
	We returned home Saturday afternoon,
having traveled 107 miles and held fifteen
meetings in seven days.
	The necessity of sustaining the EXPO-
NENT was impressed upon the sisters in
every meeting, and the instructions were
in the line of cultivating greater faith and
humility, and the necessity of greater dili-
gence in attending the meetings of the
Society, and also the storing of grain, ad-
monition to the young etc
	The visit of Sisters Bathsheba Smith and
M. Isabella Horne at our recent Conference
in Spring City was greatly appreciated, and
the Bishop and the good sisters of Spring
City vied with each other in entertaining
the guests and otherwise contributing to its
success.		Your sister in the Gospel,
							A. L. C.


