SAN FRANCISCO LETTER.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Feeling sure the sisters in Zion would
be pleased to hear something of the mission
work in California, I shall first tell of the
Relief Society organized by President E.
H. Nye, June 3, 1897, at 508 Fulton St.,
San Francisco.
	Sister W. A. Rattenbery was appointed
President; Isabella Y. Sewell First Counselor;
Harriet Simpkins, Second Counselor; Chir-
cazade Woodward, treasurer; Ida. M. Sarll,
secretary and teacher. There are about
twenty-eight members in all, and a more
earnest, loving band of sisters could not be
found on this beautiful earth. Each one is
striving to help the other in her work. 
	We meet each Thursday of the week, the
regular business part of the meeting is first
attended to, then the remainder of the after-
noon is turned into a sewing bee. The
meeting is held in the parlors of the mission
house, 915 Golden Gate Ave. I should say
mission home, for home it is to all the
Elders, with Sister Nye as mother and
friend to all who come. Her “boys” as she
loves to call them, are never turned away to
seek food or lodging elsewhere. Now to
return to the Relief Society work. Much
good is being done, several quilts have
been made, besides the mending being done
each week for the Elders.
	It has been a new and novel sight to 
some of our visiting sisters from Utah, to
see the Elders bringing in their mending to
be done. One with a bundle of socks,
another a coat minus several buttons, etc.
During our sewing hours we have had
many visitors from Utah, among those of
recent date being Sister Foster and daugh-
ter Laura, Ida Fames of Salt Lake City;
Sister Harriet Hoution of Logan; Lucy
Hoveing, Misses Owen, and Williamson of
Wellsville.


[Column 1]
	We have been much encouraged by the
visits of these sisters, and they in turn have
expressed themselves as having much en-
joyed meeting with us here, and helping
in the mission field.
	August 6th being President Nye’s birth-
day, Sister Rattenbery, president of the
Relief Society, and her co-laborers gave
him a surprise party. He with the Elders
having gone to hold a street meeting,
which they are accustomed to do, when he
was sent for to see some Utah friends at
his home, which had been beautifully dec-
orated with lovely flowers, gifts of friends.
In the meantime the Saints had gathered
at the house awaiting his return in the
darkened parlors. As he entered the room
the gas was turned on, and all arose and
sang “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.”
	President Nye was then reminded of his
natal day by a “Birthday Greeting” com-
posed and delivered by Sister Rattenbery.
	Elder Parkinson then presented him with
a silver headed cane with his name delicate-
ly engraved thereon, which was given by
the Elders in the mission.
	President Nye then gave a short history
of his life. Sister Talmage of Salt Lake
rendered a vocal solo, Miss Gertrude Ash-
ly of Ogden gave a recitation, and several
other members of the branch contributed to
the evening’s entertainment with music
and recitations.
	A fine collation was partaken of and a
delightful social time was spent. Bene-
diction by Brother Loveless. All who
were present felt that they had cause to re-
joice in being there.
	The Woman’s Exponent is gladly re-
ceived here and read with interest in Cali-
fornia.
					IDA M. SARLL,
	Secretary of Relief Society of San Fran-
cisco, 915 Golden Gate Ave.

