WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held at Canes-
ville August 24, 1897 in the afternoon,
President Jane S. Coleman presiding. Sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young. Singing “What
was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Prasident. Jane S. Coleman said it afford-
ed her much pleasure to meet with the
brethren and sisters in Relief Society con-
ference. She had lately visited the local
branches of the Relief Society in the west-
ern part of the Stake, all were feeling and
doing well and were energetic in their
labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend
their meetings, especially the monthly testi-
mony meetings, and advised the young sis-
ters to attend also, that a bond of friendship
and good feeling should exist between the
Y. L. M. I. A. and the Relief Society by
mingling together; good advice can be
given, virtue taught and much good
accomplished. Spoke of looking after the
poor and the necessity for the members to
give temporal aid (donations) that the presi-
dent may have the necessary means at
hand to carry out what is required of her.
Wished the sisters to be more interested in
the EXPONENT by subscribing for it.
	Sister Eliza Rust, president of the Canes-
ville Relief Society, gave a good report.
Said all the young sisters had joined and
were members of the Relief Society. They
have a lot nicely fenced and cultivated,
they got a good crop of beans on part of it.
	President Mary A. White reported Giles


[Column 1]
in good condition. Sister Robinson (our
Stake President’s mother) said she had been
interested in the remarks made. She had
visited the Relief Society with Sister Cole-
man and had an enjoyable time. Spoke
upon prayer and the testimony of the Gos-
pel, also upon obeying the Word of Wis-
dom, and gave good advice.
	Sister Mary Ballard reported the Thur-
ber Relief Society in good running order.
Said they were building a Relief Society
hall and had very good success in their
undertaking.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks spoke well,
encourged the mothers to attend their meet-
ings and set an example for their daughters,
also spoke upon virtue, the Word of Wis-
dom and keeping the commandments of
God.
	President H. M. Hansen felt pleased to
hear the good reports of the sisters and
encouraged them to continue to press for-
ward, and their efforts to accomplish good
would be crowned with success.
	President G. Bastian said he had been
interested in the remarks made, also in
hearing the reports given. Spoke on being
kind to the poor, that the needy should not
think or feel bad to receive from the Relief
Society when in need of assistance. He
spoke to the young, said to be kind to their
parents.
	Bishop Hanks had been interested in the
good remarks during the conference and
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society.
Spoke on prayer and a virtuous life.
	President W. E. Robinson said he felt to
endorse the remarks of his brethren and sis-
ters and was pleased with the reports of the
different branches of the Society. He
always speaks very encouragingly to the
sisters and sustains them by attending the
conferences and giving a word in season on
many good subjects. Conference adjourned
till called. Singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersley.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
BEAVER STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Beaver Stake held
its conference in the Society Hall, Beaver
City, Utah, Tuesday Sep. 3, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Present on
the stand were President C. D. White,
Counselors M. L. Shepherd and J. F. Tol-
ton, Bishop Geo. Mumford, Patriarch D.
Tyler, Prof. W. G. Bickley, Sisters C. C.
Shepherd, S. M. Dell, President J. W.
Bickley and others. Meeting was called to
order by Sister C. C. Shepherd. Singing
“Hail to the brightness.” Prayer by
Patriarch D. Tyler. Singing “Praise to
the man.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Sister Shepherd felt thankful to see so
many present, still there is a vacancy in
our midst, but we know that our dear
departed President, Sister Tyler, did her
work and did it well. Felt sorry that
through sickness Sister M. A. White was
prevented from being with us. She had
in company with other sisters visited
through the Stake and found a good set of
sisters, all alive to their duties.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition and
working unitedly. Invited all to attend
the dedicatory services of the new granery
on the 16th inst.
	Sister E. E. Owen said there was a good
spirit here, and contrasted the condition of
the Saints who own comfortable homes as

[Column 2]
being far in advance of a large portion of
the world.
	President C. D. White felt pleased to see
so many present, no ward is complete with
out a Relief Society. The women of a com-
munity shape its destiny. Said he was very
sorry to have to reorganize the Stake Soci-
ety, and spoke very highly of our departed
president. Did not know whom the sisters
would like for president, desired each one
to write a first and second choice on slips
of paper, and himself and counselors would
look them over during the noon hour and
decide. Made many encouraging and
instructive remarks, and said this was a
good year to store grain.
	Bishop Geo. Mumford said the duties of
the sisters as well as the brethren are great.
There is a place for every one in this
Church, let our Church duties be first.
Spoke on economy, and said we should
give kind advice to our young people. If
we see any a little wayward take them
aside and talk kindly and show them their
danger.
	Counselor M. A. Tolton bore a faithful
testimony to the Gospel and said we
should sustain our officers and the author-
ties. Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Be it my only wisdom here.” Bene-
diction by Counselor M. L. Shepherd.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting called
to order at 2 p.m. by Sister C. C. Shepherd.
Singing “Glory to God on high.” prayer
by Prof. W. C. Bickley. Singing “I saw
a mighty angel fly.” The secretary read
a letter from Sister Hannah Sorenson, also
one from Dr. Allen of Provo in regard to
Sister Sorenson’s class of work. Sister L.
W. Jones explained why we should have
those lectures.
	Sister S. M. Dell bore her testimony and
desired to be useful. Counselor M L.
Shepherd said the duties of the Relief Soci-
ety were many and varied. Spoke on
economy, cleanliness, training of our child-
ren and the storing of grain.
	Sister Lydia White made a few excellent
remarks, wanted to do all the good she
could. Sister M. E. Murdock spoke very
highly of Sister Sorenson and hoped we
would get her here and be benefited by her
good instructions. Spoke against slander.
	Counselor J. F. Tolton praised the
labors of the Relief Society and the interest
taken therein. Unity brings success. No
unclean spirit can enjoy the benefits derived
from the Gospel. Sister Mary Fernley and
Betsy Goodwin made excellent remarks.
Patriarch D. Tyler spoke of the ability and
talent of Sister Sorenson. Said we want to
advance in knowledge.
	The biographical sketch and resolutions
formulated by the Beaver Relief Society in
behalf of our beloved President, Sister Ruth
