MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	THE talk of the town, here, there and
everywhere at the present time, is the
coming city election and the reforms that
ought to be inaugurated in the way of
economical expenditure, as well as in
enforcing the laws prohibiting evil prac
tices. There are laws and ordinances
enough on the statute books of the city to
meet every phase of wrong-doing if the
men in official positions (to which they
have been elected by a majority vote of the
people) had the courage to see the laws en-
forced in the interest of justice, regardless
of anything but the welfare of the people of
the city. But there is a lack of moral
energy somewhere in the body politic of
the city officials evidently, because there
are flagrant offences against good order and
sobriety, and these serious matters are pass-
ed over and no one seems to know why the
parties go unpunished, and pursue the
same or similiar evil practices. And so
crime and vice multiplies and the people
submit for the time being because forsooth
they see no redress that seems available.
And yet the avenues for economic adminis-
tration, of local civil government are all
open, and there seems no good reason for
neglect of duty on the part of those in
power.
	The people have become weary with the
lack of discipline, and surely after the ef-
forts now being made the people will put
a non partisan ticket in the field that
can be supported by a large majority, among
whom there should be the new voters (the
women) who almost without exception are
anxious for a decided reform in the manage-
ment of city affairs; they are not willing
that saloons should be open on Sunday,
not even the back doors, nor that liquor
should be sold to boys under age on any
day in the week, or cigarettes either. The
habit is terrible, and yet these very things
are done, and the offenders go unpunished.
	So long as good, honorable, upright
men and women absent themselves from
the primary and excuse themselves on the
plea of lack of time or because so many bad
men go and “pack” the primary, just so
long these evils will exist; but if on the
other hand good, honest men and women
go to the primaries and stand for the rights
of the citizens to good government there
might soon be a radical change, and that
change should be made at this coming elec-
tion in November.
	The good women of this city should

[Column 2]
come out in full force and see to it that
every man or woman who is nominated for
any office within the gift of the people of
the city should have a clean record. Stand
firm and maintain the honor and best inter-
ests of the people, for justice and equality
as well as economy in all departments.
	These matters are being taken in hand
in many of the large cities, and even where
women have not the privilege of the ballot
they are doing good work in these direc-
tions. How much more the women of
Salt Lake City can do with the ballot in
their hands is easy to perceive. And there
is no question about its being high time to
do it. There should be no wavering, no
hesitating---dare to do your plain duty con-
scientiously and let the watch-word be
reform, remember always “eternal vigilance
is the price of liberty.” Do not allow un-
principled men to get your votes, and rob
you and your children of their homes and
inheritances by increased taxation and by
their sophistry and cunning lead you to
believe, it is all in the interest of progress.
Prosperity and progress comes more surely
when the larger number of people own
their homes. It was the policy of the
pioneers who settled these vales, and in
this city, as well as in smaller cities, towns
and villages, but of late years many have
drifted away from this practice, and the
people are less independent because of mak-
ing other investments and involving the
home. Agriculture and gardening are not
very remunerative just at present perhaps
but if the majority of the people are going
into mining and similar pursuits, they
must be supplied with grain and other pro-
visions and those who till the land will not
be at their mercy, but will be the ones who
will fix the value of breadstuffs and the
like. From all appearances now the pro-
phecies of Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball and others are likely very soon to be
literally fulfilled. Therefore be advised in
time and don’t give away your inheritance
(or your birthright) for a mess of pottage.
The Lord is watching over His people and
those who listen to counsel and keep the
commandments given to them in this day
and age as well as in the former days, will
be able to stand when “all that can be
shaken will be shaken,” as the Scripture
says.


