EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANY of the Relief Society Conferences
are being held about this time, and are
being attended by sisters from the city by
invitation of their officers. We have been
expecting reports of these Conferences for
publication or for the records, but so far
there have been very few minutes sent in.
It is impossible to keep posted in regard to
these Conferences unless the Secretaries
send the minutes to headquarters. Some
changes have been made in officers and
new branches organized, which should be
reported.
	WE wish to call the attention of the sis-
ters and our good friends to the Woman’s
Store on First South St., just a little west
of Main St. in the Nauvoo building.
Ladies will find there almost everything
needful in the way of dress and articles for
use. Mrs. Maria Francis and her daughter
Mrs. Kelly are very desirous of pleasing
the public in the way of dry goods and
potions, and are well posted in the details


of business and know how to buy as well as
to sell. They are polite, courteous and
kindly and make it a pleasure to attend to
customers. They make a speciality of
dressmaking and millinery in connection
with the store. Mrs Francis was in busi-
ness many years in London before coming
to Utah. Ladies remember this is a co-
operative woman’s enterprise, and examine
the articles here before buyiug anywhere
else. Your patronage is earnestly solicited.
	MISS JESSIE ACKERMAN, a world-re-
nowned celebrity, is now on a visit to Salt
Lake City, and has delighted her audiences
by her eloquence, earnestness and enthusi-
asm in reform movements, principally tem-
perance. Miss Ackerman has an excellent
voice for large buildings, and in the Taber-
nacle in this city she had to make no extra
exertion whatever in order to be heard
distinctly. She is a great traveler, having
been twice around the world, and in many
lands, China, India, Japan, Africa, Iceland
and most of the European countries. She
has climbed to the summit of the Alps and
other notable heights, and has also donned 
a divers suit and been to the depths of the
sea. Spiritually as well as temporally Miss
Ackerman has been climbing into heights
and also diving into depths, not to fish for
pearls however, but for human souls. In
visiting our sanctum with Mrs. E. E.
Shepard (a teacher of this city) she found
the Primary Association officers meeting in
session and being invited spoke a few
words of encouragement to them, saying
that the work for the children appealed
very strongly to her heart. Miss Acker-
man has been instrumental in aiding the
W. C. T. U. in many, very many countries,
and we sincerely wish her God speed in her
noble work of love and reform, undertaken
for the betterment of the home and the up-
lifting of the human family.


