THE WOMEN OF AMERICA.

	I THINK it is not strange that we pause
for a moment in this enlightened day to
pay a tender tribute of praise to the silent
suffering hearts that have labored, yearned
and died for the cause of Liberty and the
prosperity of our nation. Labored in silence
and devotion, caring for no other honor
than to be worthy wives and mothers of
our heroes and noble men. Since the
memorable day when the Queen of Castile
offered her jewels to the dreamer of Genoa
to carry him out into the sea of darkness,
into the unknown world, the patient, lov-
ing sacrifices of woman has not only fol-
lowed but led in every movement for the
cause of humanity, and the glory of the
New World. Every student of history
around will remember the beautiful story
of Mrs. Winston giving of her substance to
fit out the “Mayflower” for its question-
able voyage across the wintry ocean. And
you will not forget how Mrs. Carver’s
bravery persuaded her husband, the Rev.
John Carver, the idol of the Pilgrims, to
join their expedition to the New World.
And the sad, sweet story of Rose Standish,
the dainty beauty of the Plymouth com-
pany, the flower and pride of all who knew
her, who died ’mid the vicissitudes of that
dreadful first winter. The name of Priscil-
la Mullins will never be forgotten, and the
less known but equally faithful Ann Brew-
ster, who nursed the sick and starving like
the very guardian angel of the company.
	Indeed the women of those days took no
active part in framing of national politics,
but their tender persuading love of patriotic
zeal led their husbands, sons and lovers to

[Column 2]
the van of battle as woman's love has ever
done since the chivalrous days of bold 
Knight erranty. And when the sons of 
Liberty were forming in the fields of battle
mothers, sisters and wives were laboring
arduously to provide them with food and
clothing to protect them with food and
clothing to protect them from the raw ele-
ments of those New England winters.
The wives of Jefferson and Adams urged
them on in the cause of American Indepen-
dence, as whose wives did not? The sad-
dest picture in the life of Washington is
that when parting to fill the office of Presi-
dent for the last time he said, “I am un-
willing at the close of a life so nearly con-
sumed in public cares to quit this peaceful
abode for an ocean of difficulties.” There
in his beautiful home at Mt. Vernon he
leaned his head upon the shoulder of his
aged mother and wept. “I will see you no
more,” she said, “but go my son, fulfill
your public trust, and may God’s peace and
your mother’s blessings attend you.”
That great, grand heart so terrible in war
could stand it no longer, weeping he
withdrew from her side forever. She the
molder of his character; she the guardian
angel; she the idol of his closing years is
only one bright star in the Empyrean of
America’s noble women.
	Today as we take a furtive glance over
the fields of American history, we are aston-
ished that little over a hundred years ago
the first door was left ajar that women
might enter the portals of a University.
Now nearly every University in the land
proudly admits her to its fountains of
knowledge, and thousands are exclusively
for her. She is emancipated in the body
politic, she is the proud heir of all the love
and honor of the American manhood.
	Recently it is said that Max O’Reil, the
celebrated French wit, made the assertion
that if he could choose his country and his
sex, he would choose to be an American
women. Now that the women of America
have been honored by the immortal author
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” Harriet Beecher
Stowe, by Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady 
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Frances
Willard, with Honora Palmer and Mrs.
Eagle it will be no longer questioned that
the divine slumbering jealousy, for truth
and progress which has so long characteriz-
ed the hearts and lives of America’s noblest
women is capable of kindling into a proud
self-luminous flame to be an honor to her
nation and her home.
	The time has come when idle women as
idle, slothful, untrained men will be, shall
be looked upon with scorn. She must
henceforth be a self-sustaining helpmate to 
her husband, and his elevated, worthy, re-
spectable companion. Let us pledge our-
selves as mothers, sisters and wives in this
most promising nation of the world that we
will unite in the cause of progress and
liberty, that we may not only emulate the
examples of our foremothers but that we
may do our little to immortalize the closing
years of this great century as the golden
age of womanhood.
					EMILY RAY
Fillmore, Utah.


MISS EMMA C. SICKELS has been com-
missioned by Governor Tanner of Illinois,
a delegate to the meeting of the Farmers’
National Congress for 1897 to 1898, to
represent the Domestic Science Association,
of which she is president.


