FORTY YEARS PRESIDENT.

	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL has presid-
ed over the Relief Society in the Fifteenth
ward in this city over forty years. The
anniversary occurred on the 9th of last
February. The occasion was recognized
only on September 16, of this year, as it
was not convenient to celebrate it last
winter.

[Column 2]
	Preparations were made to have it a
unique affair, and about two hundred and
fifty invitations were issued to guests, most
of the number being those who resided
in the ward and had been generous in help-
ing to sustain the Relief Society; other
guests were General and Stake officers of
the Society and of the Church.
	The most noted visitor was a cousin
of Sister Kimball’s Chief Justice Granger of
the State of Iowa, who occupied a seat of
honor and who made an address which was
very commendatory of the labors and efforts
of the Mormon people, and particularly so
of his cousin whom he spoke of in the most
affectionate terms, she being his nearest
living woman relative. The Judge has
taken pains while here to look into matters
from an educational and business stand-
point and has examined our affairs without
prejudice.
	It so happened that the most important
personage, Sister Kimball herself who had
planned the whole affair, was not able to
attend the banquet on the evening it was
given and it was a great disappointment to
all those who had assisted as well as the in-
vited guests.
	The hall was handsomely decorated for
the occasion with flags, banners and beauti-
ful flowers, the tables were loaded with
fruits and delicious viands in great variety,
and the scene was most inviting except for
the absence of the one whom all would
have delighted in honoring. Bishop R. T.
Burton was also detained at home and Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young and her counselors.
	Rodney T. Badger who had been selected
as toastmaster (and who, by the way, did
himself and the company great credit as
well as the President) took charge in the
absence of Sister Kimball, and when the
guests were seated Bishop Elias Morris pro-
nounced the blessing.
	A communication in writing from Sister
Kimball expressing her regret at not being
able to attend and giving some few ideas of
her continuous work in the ward, modestly
expressed, and alluding to the many
changes etc., was read by Brother Thomas
Hull and was deeply appreciated by the
company. In recognition Elder C. W.
Penrose moved that a committee wait upon
Sister Kimball and convey to her the love
and esteem of the assembly, and congratu-
lations upon the success of her many
labors and long service in the field of wo-
man’s work, in not only philanthropic but
many other directions in the Church and in
the State. Bishop Morris appointed Thomas
Hull, Nephi Morris and Sister E. B. Wells.
During the absence of the committee Elders
Jos. E. Taylor and C. W Penrose addressed
the assembly. In the early part of the
evening Bishop Morris, Sisters M. I. Horne
E. B. Wells and Judge Granger were called
upon. Sisters Horne and Wells spoke
specially upon the Relief Society, its labors
and results. A song by Mrs. Maggie
Hull was delightfully rendered and the
lady warmly applauded. After the com-
mittee returned a brief report was made by
Sister E. B. Wells and accepted by the
Bishop and the guests, and after some other
appropriate remarks to those who had aided
etc., the guests rose and sang “Praise God
from whom all blessings flow,” and Coun-
selor Joseph Morgan closed with prayer.


THE Countess of Aberdeen will contri-
bute an article on ‘‘Woman’s Place and
Work in Canada,” to a new encyclopedia
of Canada, edited by J. Cantell Hopkins.


