BANQUET TO JOSEPHINE R. WEST.

	A BEAUTIFUL tribute of love and re-
spect was paid to Sister Josephine West.
president ot the Weber Stake Primary
Association. A surprise banquet was
given her by the presidents and officers of
the Primary Associations of the different
wards in the Stake, to show their apprecia-
tion of her untiring labor for eighteen years.
	The Semi-annual conference of the
Primary Association convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle on Saturday, September 11, at
11 a. m. On the stand were a number of
Salt Lake visitors, who, by their presence,
were aiding in the success of the day. There
were the following members of the General
Board: Louie Felt, president; Lillie
Freeze, counselor; May Anderson, secre-
tary and treasurer; Belle Salmon, aid.
Also Sister Aurelia Rogers, first promoter
of Primary Associations; Sister Emily S.
Richards, one of the directors of the
Orphan’s Home at Salt Lake City; Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Weber Stake, recently returned
from Washington, D. C. There were also
on the stand Sister West and one of her
counselors, Rose Canfield; also Sisters
Burton, Herrick and Moench; also Sister
Jane S. Richards, president of the Stake
Relief Society organization, and mother of
Sister West.
	The following brethren were also present:
Apostle Franklin D. Richards; President
L. W. Shurtliff, of Weber Stake, and
Elders Lorin Farr and Richard Ballantyne;
also a number of Bishops and their counsel-
lors.
	The large and beautiful building was
almost filled with little boys and girls in
their holiday attire looking happy and
sweet, a beautiful picture to behold.
	The conference was called to order by
President Josephine West. After singing and
prayer, the time was occupied in songs,
recitations and class exercises, interspersed
with short speeches from the visitors.

[Column 2]
Special mention should be made of Mrs.
Ruthinda Moench for the beautiful poem
composed and read by her for Sister West,
expressive of the loving sentiments of the
association towards her.
	Sister Marion Burton with a neat little
speech presented Sister West with a beauti-
ful gift from the Primary Association, a
heavy set of silver, lined with gold, consist-
ing of bowl and spoon, cream and sugar
bowl. This was a great surprise to Sister
West, and she responded in a brief but feel-
ing manner, expressing her appreciation of
the token of love.
	After singing, benediction was pronounc-
ed by President Middleton and conference
adjourned. The visitors and officers took
up the line of march in the following order:
Apostle Richards and family, Hon. Lorin
Farr and family, Presidents, Bishops and
families.
	Arriving at the banquet hall, the Third
ward Institute, we were greeted with a
beautiful sight, a feast for the eyes and
inner man. Three rows of tables the
length of the hall were filled with the
bounties of the earth, and decorated with
May flowers. While the guests were filing
along into their alloted seats, sweet music
was being discoursed by Misses Cannon
and Houtz and many fair daughters were
fluttering here and there, trying in their
sweet way to make all happy,
	Speeches were again indulged in for
awhile and the crowd began to disperse
with many handshakes and a “God speed
you” to Sister West in her journey.
	Much credit is due Sisters Rose Canfield,
C. C. Richards and their associates for the
success of the entertainment and banquet.
							    Ex.


[Column 1]
