MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	IF to give expression to such sublime
sentiments as those uttered by President
Woodruff at the late Conference be deemed
treason, then has the world gone backward
instead of forward. If to declare honesty
is before partisanship is wrong, then have
we indeed come upon perilous times, that
must try honest men's souls to the utter-
most. Surely women have not yet become
so wedded to parties that they must vote
with a certain party, whether their own
conscience will approve or not. If the wo-
men of this city will heed the signs of the
times, and notice how vice and corruption
have grown and flourished in this fair land
within the last few years, there need be no
fear of misrule, for if all honorable upright
men, vote for men of principle and strict
integrity and the great majority of women
join with them in the struggle for a change
in city government, there will be no cause
for fear of being outdone by any party poli-
ticians, who are after the spoils of office.
	The words of wise and good men like
President Woodruff should be heeded in
this campaign, and wisdom and prudence
should be exercised in urging upon those
who are not informed of the conditions of
the city government, that they may know
of the traps and snares laid for the unsuspect-
ing and unwary. It is not the time for
silence but the people should be fearless and
willing to speak the truth and stand for the
right. This spirit of resistance against
those who oppress the taxpayer and the
laborer is not confined to Salt Lake City
nor to Utah, although if it were the cause
is just, but in several large cities of the
East, the non partisan theory has been put
in active operation.
	In one of the leading magazines of the
day the writer upon this subject speaking
from experience says: “With me associ-
ated as treasurer of the board was Mr.
Avery E. Andrews. He was a Democrat,
I a Republican, and there were questions of
of national politics on which we disagreed
widely; but such questions could not enter
into the administration of the New York
police if that administration was to be both
honest and efficient, and as a matter of fact,
during my two years service Mr. Andrews
and I worked in absolute harmony on every
important question of policy which arose.
The prevention of blackmail and corruption,
the suppression of crime and violence, the
safe guarding of life and property, securing
honest elections and rewarding efficient and 

[Column 2]
punishing inefficient police service, are not
and cannot be properly made questions of
party difference. In other words such a
body as the New York police force can be
wisely and properly administered only up-
on a non-partisan basis, and both Mr. 
Andrews and myself were quite incapable
of managing it on any other.
	“Certain of the difficulties we had to face
were merely those which confronted the en-
tire administration in its management of the
municipality. Many worthy people expect-
ed that this reform administration would
make an absolute revolution, not merely in
the government but in the minds of the
citizens as a whole; and felt vaguely that
they had been cheated because there was
not an immediate changing of every bad
influence in social life.
	“In administering the police force we
found, as might be expected, that there was no
need of genius, nor indeed of any very un-
usual qualities. What was required was
the exercise of the plain ordinary virtues,
of a rather commonplace type, which all
good citizens should be expected to possess.
Common sense, common honesty, courage,
energy, resolution, readiness to learn, and a
desire to be as pleasant with everybody as
was compatible with a strict performance
of duty: these were the qualities most call-
ed for.
	“Our methods for restoring order and
discipline were simple, and hardly less so
were our methods for securing efficiency.
	“It was not at all difficult to protect
decent people in their rights, and this re-
sult was effected at once. It was the en-
forcement of the liquor law which caused
most excitement.”
	On this subject the writer has much to
say and closes it after several columns by
saying: “The result of our labors
was of value to the city, for we gave the
citizens better protection than they had
ever before received, and at the same time
root out the corruption which was eating
away civic morality. We were attacked
with the most bitter animosity by many
sensational newspapers and every politician
of the baser sort, not because of our short-
comings, but because of what we did that
was good. We enforced the laws as they
were on the statute books, we broke up
blackmail, we kept down the spirit of dis-
order and suppressed rascality, and we ad-
ministered the force with an eye single to
the welfare of the city. In doing this we
encountered, as we had expected, venom-
ous opposition of all men to whose interest
it was that corruption should continue, or
who were of such dull morality that they
were not willing to see honesty triumph at
the cost of strife.”
	“We were obliged to treat all questions that
arise purely on their merits, without refer-
ence to the desires of the politician. We
went into this course with our eyes open,
for we knew the trouble it would cause us
personally, and what was far more import-
ant, the way in which our efforts for re-
form would consequently be hampered.
However, there was no alternative but to
abide the result. We had counted the cost
before we adopted our plan, and we follow-
ed it resolutely to the end.”
	Some of the best women in New York
City came forward in the movement made
in 1894 spoken of here, and lent their sup- 
port in various ways, though they had not
the ballot as women have in Utah. If
effective work can be done without the fran-

[Column 3]
chise, think how much more weight women
can have who hold the voting power. It
seems quite essential that the women of this
city at the present time should inform
themselves concerning this important ques-
tion of non-partisanship in municipal affairs
and vote understandingly, which is easy
enough to do if one will take a little time to
study the questions. It is simply a duty
which the women of this city owe to them-
selves and the community of which they
form a part, to stand resolutely and deter-
mindly for good government by a faithful
administration of the laws upon the statute
books. Surely no woman with any pro-
nounced ideas of honesty, economy and
morality would wish to see the present
conditions continue. A radical change
must come, and the only course to pursue
to avoid strife and trouble, is to declare for a
non-partisan administration of municipal
affairs.


