THE UTAH PIONEER JOURNEY.
Now! let the Scroll of Time awhile unroll—
	That briefly we may scan on history’s page—
A pilgri age of Fifty years ago,
	Fraught with importance to this wondrous age.

Behold! a company of Refugees,
Inspired with courage and with faith sublime,
Wending their way toward a distant clime,
Crossing the prairies, vast as mighty seas.

Obeying thus, the mystic voice of Fate,
The overruling force of Destiny,
Fulfilling thus the marv’lous prophecies—
By ancient Seers and one* of later date.

Westward! these sturdy pilgrim’s feet are bent,
Trusting—that where “The Rocky Mountains
	rise,”
They yet will pitch their tents ’neath sheltering
	skies.
Upon “the backbone of the continent.”

And live in peace and truly realize—
Freedom of Conscience, to the r hearts content,
And build new homes—and Temples grand and
	great,

And there withal uprear a mighty State.
Most dang’rous is the pilgrims trackless way—
Beset by barbarous tribes, who nothing spare;
Woe! to the “pale face” who becomes their
	prey.
Woe! to the Trespasser, within their Lair.

Ferocious wolves, howl out their fierce desires,—
All through the night and spoil the exiles sleep,
And glare, with baleful eyes upon the fires
That faithful watchmen in their turn must keep.

At early dawn, the bugles startling call—
Stirs all the camp, to get an early meal,
The hymn of praise is sung, and one and all,
Entreat the Lord, to guard and guide them still.

Fresh as Creation’s morn the earth appears;
The plodding oxen quite good natur’d seem,
And light of heart, these hopeful pioneers
Move forward, trusting to the power Supreme.

Anon, perforce they halt, beside a river—
That must be crossed, however deep or wide
Minus a bridge, of any kind whatever
Yet, undismayed, they reach the other side,
And safely land their chattels and their teams,
And once more bid fare-well to waking dreams.

Thus weeks and months roll past until at last—
Their eyes behold the tow’ring Wasatch heights,
The outstretch’d chains of Everlasting hills
Out-ranked by few of Nature’s grandest sights.


[Column 2]
Now from the Western slope, the pilgrims gaze
Upon the Canaan of the Latter days.
So interwoven with their fondest dreams,
Alas! how undesirable it seems,
And still they look, and strive to voice in vain
The mixed emotions, that their hearts contain,
And men ally and naturally they ask—
Will all our efforts prove a hopeless task ?
Can arid, wastes—tired human frames sustain ?
Or must we still march on, and on, again ?
But Brigham Young, their Leader, by God’s
	grace,
Decisive y exclaims “This is the place!”

Weary and rough they look, and travel stain’d
What does it matter, now the goal is gain’d?
Yet Fashion’s votaries scarcely would admire—
These tourists in such worse for wear attire,
But nobler Heroes! God will never make—
Than these brave Mormons, who for conscience
	sake—
Sought out the valleys of the Great Salt Lake.

Like stately sentinels, so tall and grand—
The mountains looked on valleys, almost bare;
Scant vegetation languished in despair,
And desolation frown’d upon the land.

Mark how the hands of toil have changed the
	soil,
And turn’d the torrents from the snow-clad hills,
Into a mul itude of sparkling rills,
That from the desert wilds, removed the Ban,
And well rewards the patient husbandman.
Doubtless, the approbating smile of God—
Rests upon ev’rything, and ev’rywhere,
And vivifies and beautifies the sod,
In answer to the laborers toil and prayer.

“The solitary places shall be glad,”
“The wilderness shall blossom as the rose,”
Thus sang the ancient Seer: and thus the New,
And blessed are their eyes who gladly see,
On this auspicious day of Jubilee
The confirmation of the promise true.

SONG.
List! the jubilant echoes o’er mountain
	heights ringing
List! the beautiful valleys resounding with
	praise,
List! the streams and the fountains together are
	singing—
A chorus of joy, on this day of all days.

The sweet throated wa blers, are blending their
	voices,
As upward, and upward, unfettered they soar;
Oh come all ye people while Nature rejoices,
And render Him thanks,whom the Angels adore.

Shall the outcome of Faith be ascribed to man’s
	shrewdness,
Now the once dreary waste ike an Eden
	appears?
Shall we dare o deny ’twas God’s infinite good-
	ness,
That hitherward guided our brave pioneers?

