MISS BELLE KEARNEY.

	MISS BELLE KEARNEY, a celebrated
teacher and lecturer and a great favorite
with the public wherever she has spoken
both in America and across the ocean,
recently visited Salt Lake City and spoke
in the large Tabernacle, Saturday evening,
Oct. 2. Her lecture was entitled “Why
Are The Wheels Clogged?’’and here as else-
where, she was received with great favor.
Miss Kearney is traveling under the auspices
of the Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union. Miss Frances E. Willard speaks of
her eloquence and devotion to the cause in
the highest terms of praise. Miss Kearney
came to Utah partly to attend a Conven-
tion of the W. C. T. U. held here at that
time, and she made several speeches at the
Convention that were highly complimented.
She is a young Southerner from Mississippi
with the pleasing Southern accent and an
easy, graceful manner.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
during the evening in the Tabernacle, and
introduced Miss Kearney, and Elder A. E.
Miner offered prayer. The Committee had
succeeding in securing some of the best
musical talent in the city for a musical pro-
gram. Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered in
his inimitable style, with great feeling and
expression the “Ave Marie” from Mascag-
nis’ opera Cavelleira Rusticana, and Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang “Just As I
Am” by Sudds, with intense feeling, and
her high notes rang out clear and distinct,
which is always a pleasing feature in vocal
music. Prof. Heber S. Goddard sang an
Aria by Donizetti, his magnificent voice
filling the large building with rich vocal
tones, awakening tender and sublime emo-
tions. A sacred thing indeed is the gift of
song, and accompanied by such music as
Prof. McLellan is capable of rendering,
and in a building that is of itself lofty and
inspiring to the soul, one cannot help feel-
ing it must be a joy to give so much pleas-
ure to others.
	Miss Kearney is a very fluent and origin-
al speaker, she uses no notes, nor is she in
any sense sensational. Her voice is far-
reaching and full of pathos, and her tones
are never monotonous. She is a young wo-
man of strong character and a just desire to
do good, she is giving her talents and heart
to this missionary work.
	A reception was tendered Miss Kearney
at the residence of Mrs. Annie T. Hyde


where those who were anxious to meet her
socially might have the opportunity. Mrs.
Hyde’s handsome parlors were artistically
decorated with beautiful autumn leaves and
boughs, and presented an almost fairy-like
appearance, and with the cordial welcome
of the pleasing hostess and her sweet man-
nered and amiable daughters, the afternoon
was very enjoyable, even though the storm
kept many of the ladies from calling.
About thirty, however, availed themselves
of the privilege of meeting and chatting for
a few moments with Miss Kearney, who is
a delightful conversationalist in a social
way, as well as a wonderful public speaker.


