JOSEPH AND PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.

	ON Sunday evening the 27th of June,
very impressive services were rendered by
the Sabbath School of the 2nd Ward in the
ward meeting house, the occasion being
the anniversary of the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph, fifty-three years ago. The
building was packed by an attentive con-
gregation, on whom a silent awe rested
throughout the exercises and the strictest
of attention was given.
	“Joseph Smith’s First Prayer” was
sung by the school. A prayer was offered
by Counselor Paul Olsen, followed by a
beautiful sacramental hymn, as that or-
dinarice was administered. Also a touch-
ing quartette by members of the School,
“Galilee,” Sister Jessie Malin being the
leading voice. Another quartette, “He
Knows” was beautifully sung by Brothers
John Robinson and Thomas Ashworth,
Sisters Dean Caine Alder and Nora Lynch.
	The Kindergarten class, Sister Amy B.
Lyman teacher, was represented by little
Vera Shimmons, who so clearly recited the
story of the little children who prayed for
the Prophet Joseph, when he said to his
guards “You can go home tonight, God
will hear the little children who have pray-
ed for me, and I shall be safe.”
	The Primary class, Sister Lena B. Davis

[Column 2]
teacher, was represented by little Hazel
White, a grand-daughter of Apostle Orson
Hyde, who recited a poem composed for
the occasion by her teacher; her costume
was that of a moss rosebud, and it was in
the flower garden of Sister S. M. Kimball
that the Prophet so admired this lovely
flower.
	The thrilling strains of “Praise to the
man who comuned with Jehovah’’ echoed
and re-echoed through the building as the
school sang the hymn. Sister Edith Lov-
sey of the Theological class gave the history
of Joseph until the Church was organized,
in a pleasing manner. She was followed
by Brother John H. Sainsbury, who related
the testimony of the “Three” and the
“Eight witnesses” to the validity of the
Book of Mormon, in a clear and forcible
voice.
	“O, My Father” was tenderly sung by
Sister Dean Caine Alder, Brother C. D.
Schettler very sweetly accompanying her
on the guitar. Brother C. Hyldahl fol-
lowed, describing in an impressive manner
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple and
the glorious visions given on that occasion.
Then the revered melody “A poor wayfar-
ing man of grief” softly fell upon the ear,
the congregation joining in the hymn.
The vision of the Prophet Joseph, Patriarch
Hyrum, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards incarcerated in the old jail at
Carthage, sadly rose to view. Brother
Taylor saying he felt a sense of oppression
as of impending danger, when the Prophet
requested him to sing the hymn a second
time. Thoughts and feelings were awaken-
ed that are so well known to the Latter-day
Saints.
	The martyrdom of the Prophet and
Patriarch was concisely and solemnly
given by the teacher of the Theology class,
Sister Lydia D. Alder. “Give me back
my prophet dear” was recited by Rida
Taylor, a grand-daughter of the late Presi-
dent Taylor. “Weep, weep not for me
Zion,” was feelingly sung by the school
and congregation, thus closing these grand
and solemn exercises. A few words ex-
pressing pleasure and giving encourage-
ment to the Sabbath School were given by
Counselor John Gallacha.
	By the kindness of Bishop L. D. Hardy
the use of the Ward hall was placed at the
disposal of the Sabbath School for the eve-
ning, for which the Superintendency ex-
tended many thanks, and urged the parents
to come to the Sunday School and assist in
teaching some of the classes, and encourage
the teachers by their presence.  
				GEORGE D. ALDER,
						Superintendent,
				JAMES HOOPER,
				JOHN STRINGAM,
						Assistants


[Column 1]
