JEAN INGELOW.

“To poet’s eyes
All things, however mean or common, have
A hidden beauty and a radiance
Not seen by common mortals All God’s works
To him express some tender, loving thought
Which, in the hurry of this busy world,
We do not hear, or do not understand,
The quaint, sweet language that is all their own;
To take these beautiful and tender thoughts
And then translate them into single words
Made easy for his children’s stammering tongues;
This is the poet’s tas[-].”
	Jean Ingelow as a poet put into the
explicit words of mystic rhyme some of the
prettiest pictures of life,—put into the
mind’s mirror so vividly, that the interest-
ed reader forgets the words of the poem,
and sees the picture as if it was mounted
on canvas and encased in the frame before
him. “A mother showing a portrait of
her child,” is a poem matchless and unsur-
passed for illustrating to its readers the
great love of a mother for her child, and
her reflections of the hopes espoused by all
mothers for the heavenly gathering of
the departed. The last two lines of this
poem make a gem of themselves, that we
should all keep shining in our every day
thoughts, and use as a guide for our acts
and love for others:
		“Then thy heart must take forever
		Less than it [-]esto[-]s.”
	How beautiful this sentiment,—and how
much grander our world would be if we all
would “Take less than we bestow!”
Selfishness would then vanish as a mist be-
fore the bright sunshine.
	Jean Ingelow was born in Boston, Lin-
colnshire, in 1820. Her mother was of
Scotch descent, and her father was a well-
to-do banker of fine intellectual culture.
The poetess was exceedingly shy in her
younger days, and lived a quiet, unevent-
ful life until 1863, when the first publica-
tion of the poems secured her recognition
among the great poets and authors of the
day. She was charitable, and her “copy-
right dinners” three times each week to
twelve needy persons just dismissed from
hospitals, was one of her ways of showing
the charitable inclination of her character.

[Column 2]
	She exhibited many of the proofs of the
influence of her surroundings in her poems;
we can see in her poems the influence
the sea, the fine old churches and monas-
tic ruins had upon her. Jean Ingelow was
not spoiled by the fame her works brought
her; she once said “I do not care about
fame, or rather, scarcely believe in such a
thing, but it is a great pleasure, and a very
true one, to give pleasure to so many peo-
ple for the time being.”
	Her friends on this side of the Atlantic
endorsed her to Queen Victoria, and pro-
posed that she be appointed “poet Lau-
eate” of England, but she did not receive
the appointment, although she numbered
Queen Victoria among her personal friends.
	Jean Ingelow died in London July 19,
1897.
