A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.
	IN the year 1890, at the time of the
Johnstown flood, she took an active part in
rendering assistance to the sufferers, be-
lieving it to be her duty as a representative
of the Red Cross Society to which she had
sworn allegiance. Her efforts at this time
were greatly appreciated and a vote of
thanks was extended to her by the execu-
tive committee of the society.
	It is well, I think, to say right here
something of the objects and aims of this
society of which there is not half enough
known for the general enlightenment of the
people: The society was organized for the
relief of suffering by war, pestilence, fam-
ine, flood, fire or other calamities of suffici-
ent magnitude to be deemed national in ex-
tent. This society is subject to the call of
the national committee, the national presi-
dent of the society in America being Clara
Barton of Washington, D. C., whose fame
is widely known in the G. A. R., and
much good has been done by her in the
Red Cross Society in America.
	To return to our subject. In the year
1891 after remaining in Philadelphia three
years, her hand was sought in marriage by
H. V. Cleophas, one of the first settlers of
Big Piney, Wyo., who was an old friend of
her girlhood days in her happy home in
sunny France. The marriage ceremony
was performed in Philadelphia, after which
Mr. and Mrs. Cleophas started for their
western home, taking with them the many
blessings and good wishes showered upon
them by their faithful and loving friends in
the Quaker City. They experienced no
little difficulty in reaching their journey’s
end, being obliged to travel nine days over


[Column 1]
land, through snow-covered mountain
roads and finally, after many hardships,
their home was reached. Mrs. Cleophas
has a beautiful home situated within 80
miles of the Yellowstone Park. The scen-
ery is picturesque and magnificent. “Cot-
ton wood Ranch” is an immense property,
woodland abounds, majestic trees spread
their giant limbs and sheltering leaves about
the Cottonwood creek and the Green river
that merrily flows in zigzag course all over
the vast domain. There is a beautiful
island covered with cottonwood trees and
luxuriant grass; all this is surrounded by
mountains, a gigantic belt of stone. 
	Within her home everything is elegantly
and artistically arranged. She has a
library of upwards of 300 books, contained
within a carved oak case, which has been
in the family de Horn since the time of
Louis IV, and was the property of the
great Buffon. Mrs. Cleophas is a very
busy woman, conducting a very extensive
correspondence and attending to the entire
care of the household without help, writing
for several papers published in France,
where she is well known as a literary wo-
man, writing under the nom de plume
“Michel Andre,” and sending out her
words of cheer to many here in America.
She is first of all concerned in the happi-
ness of her husband and her home, con-
fident that whatever else of her
time and herself she has to give belongs to
humanity, to the service of her fellowmen
and women, and in the fulfillment of the
best service she can give, her life is spent.
	Among the opportunities coming to her
in her new home, was the possibility of
opening a postoffice at her home, thereby
benefiting the community. Heretofore she
had experienced much trouble with the in-
adequate mail services or facilities of her
isolated residence and a 16 mile drive each
week to reach the postoffice seemed un-
necessary, providing a postoffice could be
established nearer. A year ago Mrs.
Cleophas applied for a postoffice and re-
ceived a most courteous reply from the
government officials at Washington, D. C.,
they understanding the applicant to be a
woman of large attainment and great
earnestness of purpose, and recognizing
her executive ability, appointed her as
assistant to H. V. Cleophas, who was
appointed postmaster, the office to be named
Cleo, which is an abbreviation of Cleophas.
Just to show the indomitable will and
courage of Mrs. Cleophas, and to show her
true worth as a noble woman, I will speak
of one of her trials. At the time that she
applied for the postoffice, the postmaster at
Big Piney, where she had been accustomed
it send for' her weekly mail at such a dis-
tance, for reasons not known, waged war
against her, sending letters to Washington,
D. C., to post office officials there, calling
her “stupid and ignorant,” said that “the
postoffice would not pay and was not need-
ed, and that she lacked ability to run it.”
All this and more was said by the man who
had never met Mrs. Cleophas, and owing
to his interference, notwithstanding the
fact that Mr. Cleophas was appointed post-
master in August and received all material
and everything to open the office with on
the 3rd day of October, the Cleo post office
was not opened for business until the 7th
day of February. During many months
and up to the present time Mr. and Mrs.
Cleophas have been sorely tried and perse-
cuted beyond endurance, until at last Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cleophas has placed herself under the pro-
tection of the government officials, who
were very glad to serve her. Her’s is a
life calculated to inspire great respect and
she has shown remarkable tact and good-
ness of heart in her generous treatment of
one who sought to injure her, and it would
seem that when the true facts of the case
are known, and there are good and brave
men in Wyoming who will not allow such
insults to pass unnoticed, and it would
seem that the people of Wyoming could do
no better than to sustain and support Mrs.
Cleophas in her undertakings, and help her
to promote the welfare of the state and
county where she lives. It is her aim to
elevate and purify the atmosphere and
social status of the place where she lives,
and if by doing good she inspires the enmity
of those who seek to retard the growth of
the settlement of the place, and if these
people who have never met her continue to
make her life among them a continual war-
fare, then it is high time that the good
citizens arouse themselves and come to her
aid, otherwise there will be a blot upon the
reputation of the citizens who are sworn to
honor the rights of women. Good, true
women are needed in every community and
are a blessing wherever found, and Mrs.
Cleophas is truth itself, a progressive wo-
man, self-reliant and a chaste and noble
character, before whom every true man
would do homage.
	Mrs. Eugenie Cleophas is 42 years old.
Her carriage is stately, yet gracious. Her
manners are a combination of extreme
dignity and exceeding meekness, without a
trace of self consciousness or egotism. She
possesses the rare faculty of adapting her-
self to all classes of people, and hence
makes many friends and retains their affec-
tion. Piling high above her forehead is a
waving mass of soft, silken white hair,
which brings out the beauty of her dark
blue eyes, their tenderness reflecting the
beautiful soul within. Her complexion has
the natural freshness of a girl’s and her
smiling lips complete an ideal picture. She
exercises a beneficial influence upon all
with whom she comes in contact. She is
an accomplished musician, a woman of
beautiful character and magnetic person-
ality. She is prominently identified with
many societies, and is adored by many
people in France and all over the United
States. All through her present troubles
her womanly modesty asserted itself and
she would not give publicity to the in-
famous treatment she has received, she
sought for peace rather than bring herself
before the public gaze. But at last her
friend's who know of her trials must rally
to her assistance without delay, when a
man who calls himself a patriot and a
soldier, treats with disrespect a woman of
the Red Cross Society, before which every
soldier kneels in recognition of the great
work performed by them, it is time that
the public at large are informed of it.
Brave men and true soldiers do not wage
war against women, and it must seem
strange to our sister, accustomed all her
life to the society of true men and women,
to be insulted now for doing all in her
power to improve the condition of those
around her. One instance worthy of note
which will, I think, prove the assertion
herein made relative to her prominence in
the Red Cross Society, occured while she
was filling the position of professor of
languages at Philadelphia in 1889. The

[Column 3]
French warship, the Arethuse, came from
France, and while in port at Philadelphia
gave a brilliant reception. Mrs. Cleophas,
then Mme. Block Halbout de Horn, was
honored by a special invitation from
Admiral Brown de Colstown to attend the
entertainment given on the bridge of the
ship, as a representative of the French
branch of the Red Cross Society. She
attended and was accorded every honor at
the command of French officers and sailors
aboard the Arethuse. Mrs. Cleophas has
been actively engaged in hospital work,
having been a member of the society called
Les Dames du Calvaire, a private order
founded by a rich widow, and with only
widows in the order, their work being
much the same as that of the Sisters of
Charity. Having a hospital of their own
wherein only cancer cases are received; and
amid all the sufferings of said hospital this
woman, with the character of an angel, has
sought to alleviate the painful suffering of
many who were stricken down with an in-
curable disease.
	Space will not permit me to relate half
that could be said of the good deeds per-
formed by this true-hearted woman.
	I am personally acquainted with Mrs.
Cleophas and know her to be all that a true
woman can be.				Ex.


