R. S. REPORTS.

	THE quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society was held in the
Assembly Hall, Sept. 18, 1897, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were her counselors, A. T. Hyde, and C. C.
Cannon, also Z. D. H. Young, B.W. Smith,
J. C. Howe, E. Stevenson, Rachel Grant,
E. S. Taylor and E. Webb.
	Opened by singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Prayer by Sister
Paul. Singing “Guide us O Thou great
Jehovah.” Statistical and financial re-
ports were read and adopted.
	Sister Horne gave instructions to the
secretaries in regard to keeping proper
accounts, and said this was an important
organization for the sisters of the Latter-
day Saints. The officers should be diligent
and if they cannot represent their wards
they should see that some one does. The
Prophet had promised that great power
should be given the women; they should
have power to teach and expound the
Scriptures, that by coming together we
get the bread of life. The speaker said she
would like the sisters to keep up their testi-
mony meetings and look after the poor and
infirm, and not the strong as they could
take care of themselves.
	President B. Young said it was the duty
of the sisters to build halls and granaries,
and store up wheat for a time of need.
She had visited some of the country wards
and was pleased to see they were doing
their duty and were energetic in storing
wheat. Had visited the Sanpete confer-
ence at Gunnison and found it well attend-
ed and doing a good work; was pleased
with the good reports that were given of
this Stake. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction by Sister Julia Druce.
	AFTERNOON SESSION.—Opened by sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Sister. Rachel Grant. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Horne stated that Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde had sent in her resignation as assist-
ant secretary, which was accepted and a
vote of thanks given for her past services.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she was
grateful that she could come here and feel
the Spirit of God; felt we were in the
Kingdom of God and associated with those
who had made great sacrifices. We had
left everything to look upon the face of the
Prophet, and how we had been blessed by
obedience to the Gospel. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society when the Pro-
phet Joseph spoke to the sisters. Said it
gave her joy to meet with the sisters and
to know they were striving to live near the
Father.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the good
reports; and the teachings she had received
from Prophets, Elders and others; the Gos-
pel was being taught to every nation,
tongue and people.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said we did not
appreciate the Relief Society as we should.
It was a school and we should encourage
faith, and above all get the Spirit of the
Lord.
	E. S. Taylor, general president of the
Y. L. M. I. A. said she was heart and
soul with the work. Spoke of the many
faithful workers in Zion and the good results
of the Relief Society.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said it was a
great privilege to belong to the Relief
Society and urged the presidents of the

[Column 2]
Society to read the Church works, and ap-
point some one to discuss them.
	Sister Horne in her closing remarks gave
instructions in regard to the reports being
sent in by Feb. 1. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Sister E. Webb.
