				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF HEALING. 
	The Latter-day Saints know that the
gifts of the Gospel are restored again on
the earth and among them the gift of heal-
ing the sick has been very prominent.
And those who are acquainted with the
work in the Holy Temple, (where many
afflicted Saints come with hope and faith to
be restored again to health) know the 
power made manifest.
	We the laborers in these holy places can
testify as eye witnesses that many have
received great benefits, and many have
been healed of their ailments by the ad-
ministrations of those that were appointed
and set apart to work in these holy places.
Among those who have been favored is a
young lady by the name of Mary Ann
Douglass, whom we wish to mention. Her
 foster-mother, Mrs. Olroyd of Fountain
green, Sanpete Co., was sick nearly all
winter and the young lady was her nurse
and constant attendant, being in good
health. On the 1st of April Mrs. Olroyd
died having hold of Mary Ann’s arm at the
time of her departure taking her along, as 
she believes, to the spirit world. These
are the words of Mary Ann to the writer:
	“When mother died she held my arm and
took me along with her, it seemed not far
to go, till we were walking in a nice grassy
place, ladies dressed in white meeting us,
shaking hands and greeting mother, but
they seemed not to notice or care for me
except my sister-in-law who had died about
two years previously; she was the only
one who recognized and greeted me. And
thus we walked around and saw many
people who knew mother, they all seemed
to be very happy. At length mother let
go of my arm when I again became con-
scious and found a few of the sisters who
were in the house, rubbing my body. I
was gone or absent about two hours and
fifty minutes.
	“When I got up and tried to walk I
was unable to do so, like one that is para-
lyzed, especially my back had lost all its
natural strength.”

[Column 2]
	On the 5th of May that sister was
brought to the Manti Temple where she
was blessed and administered to and also
received her endowments, during which
time she was carried through the house in 
a chair. She was prayed for in the Tem-
ple for two weeks. As the young woman
saw no change in her condition until the
15th inst. some of her friends consulted a
doctor who saw her that day and promised
to come in two days and see what he could
do  But the Lord restored her, for the
next day on the 16th, she felt to get up,
and to her great surprise she could walk,
and walked that day to one of her friends,
a distance of four blocks at Ephraim City,
and the distance back making eight blocks.
though she could not walk one step the
day before. On the 20th of May she came
to the Temple again to show us all what
our Heavenly Father had done for her.
	Dear reader imagine, if you can, the sur-
prise and joy in our hearts to see Sister
Mary Ann, the helpless babe of two weeks
ago, walk in without assistance as though
nothing had been the matter. A feeling of
joy and gratitude to our merciful Father in
heaven swelled in our hearts and another
testimony was added to the many given
before, that God is not unmindful of His
children, that His priesthood is restored
again to the earth with all its powers and
privileges there unto belonging, for the 
benefit and blessing of the faithful.
			EMMA R. KELLER.
Manti, July 30, 1897

