READ AT THE U. W. P. C. JULY 31, 1897.
	THE greatness of our Utah, and her abili- 
ty to display it surely cannot be doubted
after what has been witnessed by the hosts
of people who have invaded our borders 
during Jubilee week. Of the splendid
exercises, magnificent pageantry, gran-
deur and immensity I shall have little
to say, as this was well written up in the
all the daily papers and is now a thing of 
the past, and will take its place in history
as one of the great events of the Rocky
Mountain region. However, I feel that
in justice I must make mention of some of
the facts. The Counties made a fine show-
ing, exhibiting the products and industries
of the State. Colorado had a beautiful
float, the loftiest one in the procession, 
which was much appreciated. It was a
graceful way of manifesting her sisterly
feeling. The Silk worm Float was uniqne
and instructive. The Sego Lily and the-
Z. C. M. I. Fairy Float were simply en-
chanting. Then there was the Salt
Fountain, The Car of all Nations, The
Queen and her attendants, and more pri-
vate floats. In fact all were worthy of
special mention, and there must have been
scores of them; but to me there was some-
thing grander and deeper, that made a far
more lasting impression than all this
gorgeous splendor. First of all was the-
remnant of that noble band of Pioneers
representing in themselves patience, loyal-
ty, bravery and endurance, and proving
by the part they took in the celebration
that their indomitable will and energy was
by no means exhausted How proudly
they marched to the Pioneer Monument
and participated in the unveiling thereof !
What a change since despised and rejected
they had sought a home in the Great
American Desert! How their thoughts
flew back to the time they first beheld the
Western sun setting upon this then arid
waste. Their beloved leader and prophet
lying in his carriage worn with sickness
and fatigue. With no home but the broad
expanse before them, hemmed in by the
everlasting hills which seemed to be the
walls upon which the clear, blue sky above
them rested. And even in their most
sanguine dreams they could not have seen
this day, when surrounded by thousands
and ten of thousands of people of various
sects and creeds, showering upon them the
greatest honors men could bestow, they
would amid inspiring music, loud huzzas
and booming cannon, see a monument to
themselves surmounted by a statue of their
noble leader, standing at the head of the
principal thoroughfare of one of the most
beautiful cities in the union, presented to
the state; a reminder to future generations
of their own heroic deeds.
	True to life was the emigrant train,
flooding the memory with recollections of
burning sands, alkali plains, bad water,
fording rivers, or in lieu thereof riding
across on some stalwart’s back. Perhaps
we are climbing mountains, or descending
with heavy ropes attached to our wagons,


[Column 1]
pulling with all, our might to keep them
from tipping over. Again we hear the
crack of the whip on our little three by ten
tent, the signal for rising and preparing
breakfast, on a camp fire made of buffalo
chips gathered and carried for miles the
previous evening. Footsore and weary
we encamp at night to find that we must
walk a mile to get water for cooking pur-
poses. The cattle are giving out, we must
cache our treasured china. Provisions are
scarce. We must travel far into the night
ere we reach food or water for the famish-
ing cattle. The woeful tidings that a man
is shot while hunting falls upon our ears
or may be a little child is dead. Can some-
one find a winding sheet quickly as possi-
ble? Time is precious, we must hasten
on! These are but a few of the trials which
were borne with hopeful hearts, and prayer-
ful lips, singing songs of Zion, for were
they not nearing the promised land of
which prophets, and inspired men had been
singing all through the ages! Did not
Isaiah say that “The wilderness and the
solitary place shall be glad for them, and the
desert shall rejoice and blossom as the
rose.” The most pathetic sight however
in the great panorama was the handcart
company, the cheers and applause that had
been lavished by the multitude upon other
divisions, gave way to another kind of
emotion. The hearts of the people were
deeply stirred, strong men knowing noth-
ing of the hardships of crossing the plains
save in imagination, struggled to keep
back the tears.
	The greatest possible contrast to this was
the first railway train that arrived in Salt
Lake valley, telling of the hope and the
joy and expectation that came into the
hearts of the people as puffing and blowing
and screaming it entered the city. We
were no longer shut out from the world,
but henceforth would be a part of it.
Travel instead of being something to be
dreaded, would now be a pleasure. Friends
would be gathered and loved ones reunited.
Yea “They shall come with speed, swiftly."
	But the crowning glory of the celebra-
tion was the children. Was it not an in-
spiration to see them? Coming, coming,
and still they come, many of whom were
the offspring of the early settlers, a verit-
able army marching through the broad
streets of the ideal city that was laid out by
the pioneers. One could not imagine any-
thing but goodness and purity in, connec-
tion with those children, and indeed there
should be nothing else. Born of worthy
sires, unselfish mothers, who by their ex-
ample have taught them unwavering faith
in God, where the pure air and exhilarating
breezes, the lofty peaks and mountain
streams all sing to them of liberty, and
whisper of a better day for all mankind.
O, that they may prove worthy of their
inheritance, for on the children our glory
rests. May the structure so well begun
upom the faultless foundation, laid by the
parents, continue to grow and its lustre in-
crease until the rays thereof shall reach the
furthermost corners of the earth that all
nations seeing our good works may profit by
our example.
	The Utah Pioneer Jubilee was a grand
conception, most brilliantly executed, and
culminated most magnificently. The bene-
fits cannot be estimated by dollars and
cents, the effects will be more far-reaching
than we can realize at this time. Utah’s
fame was scattered far and wide, it was

[Column 2]
like sowing good seed that shall blossom
and bring forth good fruit after many
days.
