THATCHER, ARIZONA.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society of Thatch-


er ward, Arizona, held June 3, 1897,
President Elizabeth Moody presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing. Prayer was offered
by Patriarch Phileman Merrill. Singing.
There were present of the Stake Presidency
President Willmirth East, Mary Ransom
and Serena Merrill, her counselors. Roll
called, forty-four officers and members pre-
sent. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Elizabeth Moody made opening
remarks. President Willmirth East spoke
words of comfort and encouraged the sis-
ters in all good works. Said our trials
were to purify and exalt us, tried to im-
press upon the sisters the necessity of tak-
ing and reading the EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary Ransom said, “Think
of the magnitude of the work these branch-
es of the Relief Society are accomplishing.
She exhorted all to be diligent in their
labors.
	Counselor Serena Merrill said she heard
the Prophet Joseph Smith say we could not
realize the greatness of the work. By per-
forming our duty we should have joy and
satisfaction in our labors, and strength to
bear all our trials. She had never felt a
doubt as to the divinity of Joseph Smith
and the truth of this work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Layton bore her
testimony and spoke very feelingly of the
long illness of President Christopher Lay-
ton. Patriarch Phileman Merrill addressed
the sisters; spoke on the duties of mothers
and said children should be taught at home
obedience, truth and virtue.
	Sister Mary C. Cluff spoke of the energy
and willingness of the sisters of Thatcher
in performing their duties.
	Bishop Samuel Claridge spoke of Sister
Moody’s good works, as she had faithfully
performed her duty for a great many years.
She was now going to Utah on a visit for
two years. It being necessary to appoint
some one to fill the vacancy during her ab-
sence, Sister Maria McRae was unanimous-
ly sustained in that position.
	President Elizabeth Moody wished the
good will of the Bishop and sisters during
her absence while in Provo. Felt well in
her labors and exhorted all to be united
and diligent.
	A great many of the sisters from other
wards were present in honor of Sister
Moody’s departure, as she is widely
known and respected. Our sisters in
Thatcher are among the first in charitable
acts. Recently a brother and sister had the
misfortune to have their home burned; they
came readily to their assistance, as within
twenty-four hours they received $140.75 for
their aid.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
refreshments were served to all present by
the Relief Society. Altogether it was a
very enjoyable time.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Sec’y.
		DIANA J. ALLEN, Ass’t. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, June 26,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were her counselors, A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox, Julia
C. Howe, L. D. Alder and E. J. Stevenson.
Opened by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Prayer by Sister S. Gibson. Sing-

[Column 2]
ing “We thank Thee O, God for a pro-
phet.” Minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	President Horne said she was glad to
greet the sisters this morning, but
was sorry to see so many absent. The
country wards were poorly represented,
they should try and send a representative,
the conference was only once in three
months and we should be willing to spend
a few hours in serving God, He was the
Author of our being and all the good things
we enjoy, it seemed that our religious
duties were of a secondary consideration.
We should be spiritual minded in our
homes and let our husbands and children
feel its influence, our homes should be
happy homes where we cultivated His spir-
it. She had been on a visit to the South
with her children and grandchildren and
had a nice time, had spoken in public at
Richfield, was urged by her children to
stay but felt if was her duty to attend the
Conference at home, and had sacrificed her
feelings to be present. Said that the bless-
ings that were easily gained are not appre-
ciated as much as those that are harder to
get. She had visited at American Fork
and had attended the officers meeting, their
reports were excellent and the meeting was
filled.
	Verbal reports from all the city branch-
es of R. S. were given. President E. S. Taylor
of theY. L. M. I. A. said she was pleased
to hear the good reports of the Society; she
wished to keep in touch with the Relief
Society. In her travels was often asked to
speak in their meetings and realized their
duties were arduous. She knew all the
ins and outs of the financial affairs, had
been secretary a twenty-eight years. The
Society developed the sisters in charitable
works, and made them better Latter-day
Saints. Felt when she saw the aged sis-
ters tottering to the stand they should be
made honorary presidents and younger
ones take their places. The Prophet
Joseph was inspired when he organized this
Society. The young girls should be identi-
fied with the Society and help nurse the
sick, instead of the aged sisters. The work
of the Relief Society was spreading intel-
lectually as well as spiritually; said may
God help us to perform our duties. Closed
by singing “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Maria W. Wilcox.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Opened by sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by 
E. Webb. Singing “The Spirit of God.”
The presence of President Zina D. H.
Young, Sisters S. M. Kimball and Rachel
Grant was added to the stand, the meeting
was largely attended and a few country
wards reported. President Horne gave
some instructions and said she wished her
voice could reach every Society in Israel
and stir them up. felt many were wearing
out but their spirits were just as active. It
was a great labor for the aged sisters to car-
ry on this Society, and felt the young sis-
ters should have an interest in the work, gave
nstructions to the secretaries in having
the new forms, and sending in their reports
promptly.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said she was
pleased to see the old faces as well as a
few young ones, and felt the Relief Society
sisters were the salt of the earth. A work
of love and good should interest all, was
interested in the report of the Fifteenth
ward, it was beautiful to hear the testi
monies and reports and felt the young sis


[Column 1]
ters should be engaged in the work of
charity, the presence of the young would
cheer the older ones. Prayed for all the
presidents.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt
weak to give instruction to her sisters, but
felt it was a grand work to be engaged in.
The young sisters did not see anything pro-
gressive in the Society, but in a few years
they would testify to the good it had done
them. Felt pleased in listening to the re-
ports, it was profitable to us to make an
effort to attend our meetings, we were
strengthened for other duties. Prayed for
the aged sisters that were getting infirm,
they had lived near the Lord and were
growing old beautifully, let us sustain them
by our faith aud prayers.
	B. W. Smith had been happy in hearing
the reports and remarks. She had been
fifty-five years in the work and was not
weary yet. The first meeting she attended
she was taught to embroider, and it had-
brought her in many a dollar since. She
had learned more of her religion at the
Society than any other place, learned to be
liberal to the poor and care for the living
and the dead, would like to see our ranks
filled up and more join in the good work.
Testified to Joseph Smith’s mission.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she felt
like talking an hour. The Relief Society
was organized after the pattern of the Holy
Priesthood, said when she saw Aunt Zina
walk in and saw how feeble she looked,
she asked herself where was the faith in the
Relief Society, why cannot our faith be so
strong that we can ask our Heavenly Father
to build her up and make her strong? We
should live near to God and do our part
well, she had been connected with the Fif-
teenth ward Society forty-five years, the
young people think our Society is not pro-
gressive enough. Spoke of President
Brigham Young organizing the Retrench-
ment Society and calling his young girls
together and giving them instruction, felt
the young people were being led instead of
being leaders.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt we had
been feasted and the Spirit of God was
here, every heart knew what was right.
Joseph Smith had turned the key for wo-
men. The young ladies would yet con-
sider it an honor to belong to the Society, we
needed wisdom to talk to our children, be
cheerful and happy. Felt to rejoice in the
Gospel and hoped to hold out to the end. 
Sister Rachel Grant was pleased to be
here, but had not heard one word, but
knew the good spirit had been here. Felt
to express her gratitude for her son’s recov-
ery, had the assurance that he would be re-
stored, and his recovery had been a testi-
mony to him and his children. Spoke of
her pleasant association with her sisters
and felt to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things, and spoke of the kind-
ness her son had received at the Hospital
and from the Sister Superior especially.
Prayed for the blessings of God on all.
	Sister Horne said the Spirit had been
poured out on the speakers. She said we
needed the aged sisters to balance the
young, they had stood the trials, mobbings
and drivings and had been proven while the
young ones were led by pleasures aud ex-
citement, the proper spirit leads us to be
quiet and simple. Spoke on the calamities
abroad and preparing for the great events 
that were coming; spoke on storing grain
and preparing for a day of need. Prayed

[Column 2]
for blessings to rest upon all that we may
realize the importance of our mission. 
Adjourned for three months by signing 
“Praise to the man who communed with 
Jehovah.” Benediction by Lydia D. Alder. 
