VOTERS.

	THE women of this city and of the entire
state should constantly remember, and especi-
ally at election time, the responsibility rest-
ing upon them equally with men in regard
to voting, and in regard to selecting suitable
persons to fill any office of emolument or
trust within the gift of the people. In
accepting equal suffrage it was understood
that women also accepted the duties and
obligations as well as the privilege. And it
is certainly expected that a large majority of
women would act conscientiously in all
matters pertaining to the welfare of the
state including its several localities. When
cities and towns are well regulated and
wisely controlled the state is benefited; in
fact government begins first in townships
etc., spreading out into counties and so on;
and if, as is a fact of the Constitution of the
country, we have a government by the peo-
ple and for the people, every individual per-
son of years of accountability should accept
his or her portion of the actual responsibility;
and much more devolves upon those who
have the ballot in their hands.
	Women have in the past, thought men
careless of the great privilege accorded
them and now that it has come to pass that
the women of the Rocky mountain states
have been favored with the franchise, and
equal political privileges, they should see
to it, that they should not fall into the
errors of partisanship or of indifference to
the public weal.
	In this state particularly where so many
women pay taxes, the financial and

[Column 2]
economic welfare should be a consideration,
as well as the moral tone of the community.
Reform in city government is the cry in
many places, and at the present time, we
who live in Salt Lake City, are especially
desirous of seeing a better condition of
affairs, and the laws and ordinances on the
statutes more strictly administered than
they have been of late. If there are seri-
ous grievances and wrongs that reflect upon
the well being and morals of the commun-
ty, then it is possible that radical measures
must be taken in order to set things right.
	The women of this city have great
power for good in their hands at this critical
time, if they will only exercise it wisely,
and this coming election will be a golden
opportunity to make the ballot count on the
side of right, justice and reform.
	Mothers who see and know the great in-
crease in vice of various kinds, should most
seriously take advantage of the time, and
consider what strong measures can be
taken to eradicate the existing evils, and
prevent future spread of wrong-doing that
they may not be answerable for the down-
fall of the innocent and unsuspecting. And
in the matter of voting it should certainly
be the man who is honest, upright and
true as well as capable, instead of the party
to which he belongs; or the woman, should
a woman be nominated who is patriotic
enough (and has the essential welfare of
the city at heart) to stand by the cause of
reform and not be swerved to the right or
left by any specious reasoning of men, who
seek place or power with a view to personal
aggrandizement, or from any other unworthy 
motive.
	As long as there is a wrong to be righted
women should have the courage of their
convictions and stand firm as the everlast-
ing hills for the triumph of right.
	Women have much at stake in this mat-
ter because of the moral sense of obligation
which it is expected they will exercise, and
also that the whole nation is looking on to
see how women who have this precious
boon, the ballot, will carry themselves;
whether they will yield to the dominant
influences that prevail among men, and
become particapants in the political affairs
that pass current as being the proper
thing, or if they will still remain womanly
and motherly, maintaining those principles
that tend to foster and strengthen the best
attributes of mankind.
	Women have not asked for suffrage be-
cause of place or power, or to crowd men
out of the ranks of the wage-earners or pro-
fessions, but that they may be acknowledged
as being an equal in the work and business
of the great world in which all must live
and take part, along all lines that lead to
progress and development in the civiliza-
tion of of mankind in the best sense of these
terms and conditions. This great work
can never be done well by one half of the
human family; it is the opinion of all who
think deeply that men and women must do
the work together, and unitedly.


[Column 1]
