[Column 1]
the angel Moroni told Joseph, when he first
saw the plates, he said, “It is not time yet
for four years to take these plates. But
meet me here once a year until the time ar-
rives.” This the prophet did and was thus
prepared for that which followed, even that
success would only follow where faithful-
ness was found, with an earnest zeal to do
right, for right, wrongs no one, you know.
	This is our firm belief, having proved it
to be even so. My first experience was at
Nauvoo, when we were driven out leaving
all our possessions behind us. Now I
would ask were we driven because we were
more righteous than they?
	No not exactly; we were trying to keep
the laws of God but were not perfect in our
lessons, accordingly our chastisement re-
sulted in our good, as it always does when
we acknowledge the hand of God in it, as
Job did in his affliction, when his wife said
curse God and die. But Job said, thou
speakest as one of the foolish women; has
He not a right to chastise as well as to bless?
	Did not Joseph our prophet teach us,
“That God is angry with none, excepting
those who will not acknowledge the hand
of God in all things?” And we always find
when we will do this there is truly a bless-
ing awaiting us.
	This we find again when a revelation was
given to Prest. B. Young on the west bank
of the Missouri River near Council Bluffs,
1847, concerning the camp of Israel in their
journeyings West. This shows they must
be organized in companies with a covenant
and promise to keep all the commandments
and statutes of the Lord our God, and the
blessing of this journey will never be for-
gotten by those who were in this company.
His words being like those of King Ben-
jamen to his people. Even that they should
be a righteous people in keeping the com-
mands God has given, acting uprightly and
just in every instance, each one bearing
their own burthens according to the abilities
God had given us, and then lend a helping
hand to the needy in times of accident or
affliction.
	This was faithfully observed, as I am a
witness, and prosperity attended our efforts
daily. Thanksgiving and songs of praise
were offered daily until we arrived safely in
the valley, nor was it forgotten after our
arrival here in 1847.
	This course was followed for ten years
prosperity attending our efforts, until we
were provided with nice comfortable homes,
good gardens and orchards, etc.
	Then we were threatened with destruction
by an army of 10,000 men, but the Lord
heard our prayers and we were saved by his
powerful hand; and why? Were we begin-
ning to become proud of our success?
	Inasmuch as this was the case surely this
army came in time to awaken us to a sense
of our duty to God, making us feel our de-
pendence upon Him.
	This precious record the Book of Mormon
shows us the danger of pride, telling us of a
people who lived in rightousness for four
generations, then pride made its appearance
which produced envy, hatred and malice,
then followed by war, until that people were
swept from the earth and became extinct;
and had it not been for twenty-four gold
plates found by the people of Lemhi, we
should have known nothing of this people
today. Here we learn a lesson from this
book, what power the tempter has upon a
proud people.
	This book warns us again and again to

[Column 2]
beware of pride. Is not this a valuable
book, and agrees with Holy writ, the Bible
which says "Pride comes before destruction
and a haughty spirit before a fall." Let us
then beware of pride, is the desire of,
ZION'S CONVERT.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 23rd, 1894.


