OLD FOLKS ANNUAL EXCURSION.

	On Thursday the 11th inst., the old
folks of Salt Lake City and county made
the trip to Pleasant Grove in Union Pacific
cars kindly provided by the company for
this happy occasion. It has become a reg-
ular custom now that the “old folks” over
seventy should go somewhere every sum-
mer for an “outing” and a good time.
This is their first visit to Pleasant Grove
and it seems to have been one of the most
pleasant of all the pleasure trips the party
has ever taken. The morning was lovely
after the rain of the previous evening and
the old people were astir early, and so were
the committee who are indefatigable in
their labors to make every thing comfortable
and enjoyable for these aged veterans, who
have come to think of this excursion as a
settled thing, and to expect it and look lor-
ward with a sort of eagerness for the day to
come, from the time their last trip was
taken. To them it is indeed a festive oc-
casion, and they always look so happy,
their faces beaming with smiles.
	It is a beautiful thing to pay respect and
honor to the aged, who have borne the
burden and heat of the day and at eventide
are waiting the summons that comes to all
sooner or later. To minister comfort, to
add some little to the lonely lives of those
who are bereft of friends, and who need
heart sympathy, to greet them with smiles
and kind words which sometimes mean so
much to those whose lines have not been
cast in pleasant places, is commendable and
will certainly return to bless those who
bless.
	This Old Folks Committee and Old Folks
Choir have made quite a “hit” in the part
they have acted year after year in honoring
the veterans. It is a worthy example to
set and one which might be followed by
others if not in the self-same way, in reach-
ing forth a helping hand to the veterans
who have wrought out for their prosperity
many blessings, and made the lives of the
present generation richer, fuller, and more
complete, because of their arduous labors
and heroic self sacrifice.
	The cars containing the precious frieght
of many human souls sped gaily out of the
U. P. depot, at 8 o’clock a. m. There
were many red badges for those over
seventy, quite a number of blue ones for
eighty, and a few white ones for ninety.
Crowds of people were at the depot to see
the train pull out, and once fairly started
Bro. Wm. Foster with the Choir merrily
sang “All Aboard,” to the great delight of
the veterans; afterwards several selections
were given, the choir as is their usual way
going from one car to another.
	The train reached its designation at 10:25
and the party were most heartily welcomed
by the Pleasant Grove people, a brass
band in attendance, the Sunday School
children in line, the whole making an at-
tractive picture. The grove which is a fine


