[Column 1]
one was prepared with everything needful
for the comfort of the visitors; and at the
entrance over the archway was the inscrip-
tion “Welcome and Honor to the Aged.”
There was a full committee of citizens to
attend to all the details, and young ladies to
serve the refreshments. On the platform
besides the committee of Salt Lake and
Pleasant Grove were a number of leading
cittzens of Salt Lake and Utah counties and
Apostles Brigham Young, John Henry
Smith, F. M. Lyman and H. J. Grant,
also Elders J. G. Kimball, Jos. E. Taylor,
C. W. Penrose, W. N. Dusenbury and
Mayor Bullock of Pleasant Grove and the
pioneers John Brown and Henson Walker;
many came from adjacent settlements and
the attendance as a whole was very numer-
ous; There were 1,200 over seventy, from
Salt Lake Co. alone, besides those from
Utah CO.
	The exercises of the day began by the
Old Folks choir singing “Auld Lang
Syne.” Apostle F. M. Lyman offered
prayer, the choir sang “We Shall Know,”
and Mayor Bullock delivered the address of
Welcome, after which a bounteous repast
was served in excellent style to all in the
grove, and greetings and conversation of
other days followed which is always a sig-
nificent feature of old folks pienies.
	A call for all over ninety years of age to
come to the platform was responded to by
several and it was found later on that there
were present eight persons over ninety.
Mrs. Margaret Ploutz ninety-five, who was
at Haun’s Mill‘ Mrs. Jennette Aird ninety-
six, Mrs. Sarah Free ninety-five, Mrs.
Sprague ninety-two, widow of Dr. Sprague
so well known in Utah in the early days;
Litus Davis ninety, Nancy Norrell ninety,
Mary Argent ninety-two.
	While the crowd were coming together,
the Lehi band played and the Old Folks
sang the favorite hymn composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “O My Father.” Elder
George Goddard came to the front and was
received with great applause, he stated
that Bro. C. R. Savage had originated the
movement of giving the old folks an annual
excursion, which has now been continued
twenty years. Bro. Goddard in his char-
acteristic way asked all to stand who were
with the first excursion twenty years be-
fore, and about thirty-five rose in response.
Bro. Goddard is a great favorite on these
occasions as well as in all Sunday School
movements. The Lehi band discoursed
sweet music and Apostle Brigham Young
spoke briefly to the veteran fathers and
mothers in Israel. Agnes Olsen Thomas
in sweet voice sang “Away Down on the
Swanee River.” Apostle F. M. Lyman
made a few telling remarks and stated his
belief that the old folks were increasing,
thought that “those who passed away
should be able to carry good news to the
other side and tell them how we loved and
cherished the old folks.” He believed Utah
would become remarkable for love and re-
spect to the aged. A duet was flnely ren-
dered by Misses Frampton and Swenson of
Pleasant Grove. Patriarch John Brown
contrasted the present situation with that
of 1847, when he came here with the
pioneers. At the close of this pleasant
gathering, Doxology was sung and the
benediction pronounced by Elder Jos. E.
Taylor. It is quite remarkable that these
excursions always end happily, nothing of
a serious nature ever having occurred to
mar the trannquility of the aged people, for

[Column 2]
which all feel gratitude to God for his pre-
serving care over these veterans. Great
credit is due also to the very efficient man-
agement of the able committee who never
weary of this delightful undertaking.


