WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	Allow me to ask, are not these the days
our Savior foretold should come, when He
said “In the last days the Lord will pour
out His Spirit upon all flesh.”
	Can we fail to realize this to be even so,
when we see how it has enlivened and
quickened the understanding of many, who
were endowed with faculties to understand
readily some one of the many sciences; for
instance, such as the power of steam, and
how to govern and control it to advantage;
also electricity which is another powerful
agent and needs great skill to use it safely,
and then what wonders may be performed
in bringing messages. Only think of speak-
ing by telephone to a friend forty miles or
more away, and can hear so distinctly you
can tell if it is a man or woman who is
speaking to you, and hear all they say; and
only since 1844 when the first telegram was
sent from Baltimore to Washington. Now
it is sent by cable across the ocean so quick-
ly that the death of the Czar of Russia was
here in the papers the next day, the 2nd of
Nov. and he died on the 1st of Nov. And
only think, the first steamship crossed the
ocean in 1819, not quite 77 years ago, and
will now go in eight days, or less, a distance
which took a sailing vessel 2 to 3 months to
get there. Nor are these all the wonderful
feats that have been performed in 77 years,
about the time when I first saw the light of
day, but now even at this time of life, I am
captivated and delighted by science.
	Especially by our sewing machines
which prove such a blessing, and were first
in operation in 1841, only 54 years ago.
	Then our photographs since that time I
think, yet take our shadow so accurately it
is indeed charming; besides this farming
machinery so quickly done, that one man
will do the work of five men, all is speed,
speed, until one is nearly bewildered.
	Would it not be well to stop and think,
who gave us every faculty of mind and
body we possess? and who will call us to an
account when our probation here is ended
on this earth, for to die is one of the laws
of nature, and we must go when Father
calls us home. Now it is written “God is
a spirit, and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth, and knowing
as He did, the danger we would be in at
this time when pomp and a grand display
of what the human family can do, was
uppermost in the mind of all. He has a
sacred record hid up for this fast age, a
time of great danger to the thoughtless and
simple who know not God and care less
perhaps.
	This record is a guide the same as the
mariner’s compass is to the sailor on the
ocean, showing us the upward and onward
course is the right one to save us from de-
struction. It is called the Book of Mormon,
the name of the one who has charge of the
record. Was not this record preserved for
the express purpose of teaching this genera-
tion how to prepare to meet their Lord and
King? I think so. We plainly see while
reading this history that those who love

[Column 2]
God with all their might, mind and
strength are never forgotten by Him. No
indeed, they have the same care that a
tender parent has over a loving child.
	In the First Book of Nephi, fourth verse,
he tells us, “In the beginning of the reign
of Zedekiah king of Judah many prophets
called on the people to repent or the great
city Jerusalem would be destroyed. There-
fore his father Lehi prayed earnestly to the
Lord in behalf of his people, and as he
prayed there came a pillar of fire, and
dwelt upon a rock before him, and he saw
and heard much, and because of the things
that he saw and heard, he did quake and
tremble exceedingly. Then returned to
his own house at Jerusalem and cast him-
self npon his bed being overcome by that
which he saw and heard.”
	But the Jews did mock him and would
not believe there was any danger of de-
struction. After this the Lord appeared to
him in a dream, blessing him and telling
him to take his family into the wilderness
and leave Jerusalem for it is to be destroyed.
He did so; then comes a history of his
travels and afflictions yet not so great as
those who were destroyed in the great
city.
	Please read the book and behold what
choice blessings were given to Nephi who
believed all his father had spoken, then had
the same sight himself. Then he was taught
to build a ship and take his family to a
choice land, where prosperity attended their
efforts even as he was told, saying, “If ye
will keep my commandments ye shall pros-
per in the land.” We find this promise
often repeated in this book, and never to
fail when strictly keeping the command-
ments of God our Father.
	I greatly admire the history of King Ben-
jamin as given in this book. While talking
to his people he said. “I say unto you, as
I have been suffered to spend my days in
your service, even up to this time and have
not sought gold nor silver or any manner
of riches of you. Neither have I suffered
you should be confined in dungeons, nor
that ye should make slaves of one another,
or that ye should murder, or plunder, or
steal, or commit adultery or do any man-
ner of wickedness. Bu[-] have taught you
to keep the commandments of the Lord in
all things, and even I myself have labored
with mine own hands, that I might serve
you, and that you should not be laden with
taxes and that nothing grievous should
come upon you, as ye yourselves are wit-
ness this day. Yet I do not say these things
to boast. Neither do I tell it to accuse you,
but I tell it, that ye may know that I can
answer a good conscience before God this
day. I do not desire to boast, for I have
only been in the service of God. And be-
hold, I tell it that ye may learn wisdom,
and learn when ye are in the service of
your fellow beings, ye are only in the ser-
vice of God. Book of Mosiah, 2nd chapter.
	Now I would ask, where do we find rulers
of this kind today. Yet such men must
rule and reign again, before Jesus comes to
reign. He must find a righteous people
when He comes again to earth.
	Is not this reasonable to suppose? Do
not we learn from this book the importance
of being a righteous people if we would
prosper in this land?
	We also learn from holy Writ, the
Bible, there are times and seasons for every
purpose under the sun. As you remember


