MRS. HORNE’S VISIT TO IDAHO.

	Editor Exponent:—The summer visit of
Sister M. I. Horne to her daughter, Mrs.
George Spencer the past month, has been
made a source of interest and profit to the
Relief Society of this Stake.
	It was at the request of our worthy Pres-
dent, J. P. Lindsay, that our beloved Sis-
ter consented to hold two meetings in Paris,
which were well attended considering the
short notice given.
	Sister Lindsay made a few appropriate
remarks before introducing our Sister, who
was listened to with great attention. Sub-


jects presented were, the necessity of fully
sensing the responsibility that rested upon
us, and the obligations we were under as
Saints, and as members of this Church, in
order that we obtain the reward of the faith-
ful. The responsibility of motherhood in
training children. Observing the Sabbath
day. Spoke also upon the life and charac-
ter and teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The last named subject delivered
as it was by one personally acquainted
with the Prophet, though familiar as house-
hold words to President Lindsay and some
others in the congregation, was to all in-
tensely interesting and soul inspiring, and
calculated to strengthen our faith, confirm
our hopes and lead us onward.
	The question of Woman’s Suffrage
though not as familiar as the latter subject,
was listened to with the greatest attention
and interest, and has awakened thought
and reflection that cannot fail to produce
good results. It is a subject almost new to
many of our Sisters, and who have not
fully comprehended its importance, and the
powers and privileges the franchise would
be likely to confer; but being connected
with a young and progressive state, we
hope to fall in line with Wyoming, Colorado
and Utah in the Woman’s Suffrage
movement, and secure every advantage
that can be obtained by equality at the
ballot box, in the schools, colleges, and in
every way and place where woman’s in-
fluence can be expected to better her social
condition, and that of humanity in general.
Your Sister in the Gospel, L. M. Hart.
	BLOOMINGTON, Idaho, July 3, 1895.


