NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS E.U. Yates sailed for England
early in June and will be gone until Sep-
tember.
	THE University of Chicago is about to
publish a bi-monthly, called the American
Journal of Sociology. Professor Albion W.
Small, assisted by the faculty of the social
science department, will have charge.	
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET was re-elected
president of the British Woman’s Temper-
ance Union. Lady Somerset and Miss
Willard have both conditionally accepted
invitations to speak before the fifth meeting
of the great Anti-alcohol Congress, to be
held in Basle, Switzerland, August 20-22.
	Two women of Cripple Creek, Colorado,
were recently called to act on a jury in a
case where a woman was defendant. The
fact that the mixed jury were only out
five minutes when they brought in a ver-
dict of guilty shows that the presence of
women in the jury box will not necessarily
delay matters or prevent justice being done.
	In Pennsylvania another of the noiseless
steps of progress toward’s woman’s enfran-
chisement has been taken. For the first
time the mothers of that State have this
week secured the equal costody and control
of their own children. Half a million
mothers have now, in the Keystone State,
a right still denied by our Legislature to
the women of Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Julia B. Nelson says: “Woman
does not want the earth, but neither will
she be satisfied with the use of a third of it;
she wants ‘the undivided half!’ Gentlemen
may cry ‘Peace! Peace!’ but there will be
no peace until she has a clear title to that
which her Heavenly Father bequeathed to
her. His last will and testament has been
set aside through many dark ages, but she
now has the will in her possession, is able 
to read it, and bases her claim to joint title
in the ownership of the earth on that sec-
tion of the will found in the first chapter of
Genesis 26-28 inclusive.’’
	The Union Signal will revert to a cus-
tom of former years, and omit two issues in
midsummer. The last issue before the
holiday, July 11, will be the special world’s
W. C. T. U. number, containing full ac-
counts of the great London meeting and
the “doings” of the white ribbon party on
the continent. Then says the Union Sig-
nal:
	Editors, proof readers, compositors and every-
one connected with the paper will hie away on
the first train or boat to a cool, quiet spot, and
spend the two weeks conscientiously seeking re-
newed ability for their various arduous tasks.


