OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	This morning I was highly entertained
while reading our little paper. In the
first place in reading the remarks of our be-
loved Sister Horne whose teaching is al-
ways so motherly and kind, well seasoned
by scripture lessons making every word
weighty and inspiring to memory. Not
only so but all the daily duties of life which
have been her experience appreciated day by
day, and practicable as well.
	She also refers to the remarks of President
Brigham Young, who, while urging the im-
portance of diligence and faithfulness in our
duties to God and to each other said, “If
we are not diligent and faithful in keeping
the commands of God our Father, when
Babylon falls we will fall with her. Nor
will we be worthy to be called by the name
of Him whom St. John saw in his vision
whose name was written on his thigh,
“Faithful and True.”
	Another article in this paper, the editorial,
was called, The Need of the Hour, her
opinion is, there never was a time when
there was greater need of activity and dili-
gence in looking after the interests of the
community than the present. This then
shows that the growth and prosperity of a
people depend largely upon the work of
the preliminary proceedings, also the energy,
perseverance, thrift and industry of its sons
and daughters, and finally her petition is,
“Oh, that supreme wisdom may be given as
it was to our fore-fathers who framed the
glorious constitution of our great Republic.”
	Now I would ask, should not we offer
another petition for those men who are
now expected to frame as she says a consti-
tution for the State of Utah, that it may be
permanent, a sure foundation that will not 
continually need patching up. because it is
not equally well poised?
	It seems that we have every facility to
make Utah a lovely State a good home for
the industrious and frugal community.
Such as those who first entered this valley;
they were a humble people appreciating
every blessing as a gift from God our
Father, not forgetting to thank Him con-
tinually for blessing the efforts of this peo-
ple and also in answering their prayers in
times of affliction, for such times will come
occasionally to prove us, this test will show
whether we are chaff or wheat, and charita-
ble as well. Yes, it will test our faith in
omnipotence who is at the head of all in-
telligence, and of the One who never fails to
hear the prayers of those who keep his
commandments, for such persons can ask
in faith, knowing the words of Jesus were,
“In vain ye call me Lord, Lord, and do
not the things which he bids us.” Then
let us be careful not to grasp too eagerly
the things of this life that we forget the
world and look beyond, is my prayer.
M. E. K.
Sept. 25th, 1894.


MISS NELLIE MURPHY of the Antlers
Hotel, Colorado Springs, is said to be the 
only woman room-clerk in a large hotel in
this country. In England the position is
often held by women.
	THE demand for space in the Woman's
Building at the Cotton States and Inter-
national Exposition has been so great that
the woman's board has been compelled to 
ask for an appropriation for an annex.


