NOVEMBER?

	The question of whether women can
legally register and vote at the coming
election in November is still unsettled and 
from information of a reliable character we
glean that the Utah Commission are un-
willing or not sufficiently confident to de-
cide it. It seems incredible that such an 
important matter should be left to registrars
to decide, and it involves too much interest
in the new state to be set aside without in-
vestigation. Lawyers and judges have
had the matter under advisement, but no
positive solution of the question has been
reached.
	The Utah Commission are busy appoint-
ing registrars for the several counties, and 
we notice that at a meeting held by the 
Commission on Friday June 12th, Commis-
sioner Tatlock introduces a resolution on
this subject, proposing to submit the ques-
tion to the Attorney General, which cer-
tainly does seem the safest thing to do un-
der the circumstances. The resolution is
as follows:
	First—Under and by virtue of the foregoing
provision of the enabling act, and the proposed
constitution are women, who are citizens of the
United States, over the age of twenty-one years,
and who have resisted in the territory for one
year next prior to November 5, 1895, entitled to 
resignation?
	Second—Can women possessing the qualifica-
tions set forth in the foregoing be legally en-
titled to vote upon the question of the adoption,
or rejection of the proposed constitution at the
November election, A D 1895?
	Third—At the November election to be held
in 1895 as above stated, can women possessing
the qualifications set forth in question No. 1
legally vote for the state offices provided for in
the proposed constitution?
	The resolution was laid over until an-
other meeting. 
	It seems too bad to lay the matter over;
there certainly ought to be some positive
authority for, or against the proposition.
To vote or not to vote seems to be the vital
question for women at the present time. 
	The suffrage has been conferred upon 
the women of the territory by the delegates
duly elected to the Constitutional Conven-
tion while assemble, and it does seem as 
though the right of suffrage ought to be
exercised by them in having a voice and a 
vote as to the officers who shall govern
and control affairs in the new state. It will
make a very great difference in many re-
spects if women are to be excluded from
this first election.

[Column 2]
	The women of this commonwealth are by
every possible right of citizenship entitled
to fair representation in public affairs.
They have borne heroically their share (and
the largest share too) of the hardships and
burdens of colonizing. Wherever men
have gone to open up new fields, and found
new settlements women have gone with
them, with their little children, exposed to
the same dangers from sun and heat, or 
cold and storms of all kinds, from savage
Indians, from wild animals, from snakes
and reptiles, living in tents and wagons,
with scarcity of food and clothing in many
instances, performing all the labors of the
household, bearing and nursing and rearing
children, and many of these women, scores
and scores of them have taken the wool
from the sheep, carded, spun and wove it,
and afterwards cut and made into wearing
apparel the cloth their own hands had pre-
pared for the family use, knit the stockings
mittens, etc., for every member of the
household. Who but the mother knows,
realizes or appreciates what women have
suffered who have gone into a new and un-
civilized country?
	This is not only true of Utah and the 
West, it is also true of our Pilgrim mothers
and of the early settlers of other lands. 
	The pioneer mothers of Utah have not
sat idly down with folded hands, but they
have labored with hand and brain, and
helped to make the land beautiful, and in
all the prosperity which has or will come,
they should be partakers of the benefits and
results, and share in all the privileges. The
sons of such mothers can well afford to grant
equal suffrage to women, and in the near
future when Utah receives her crown of
statehood, and women have equal part,
women will not be forgetful of the advan-
tages it will bring, nor shirk the responsi-
bility of the duties which attend upon this
high privilege. 
	There are many positions in the gift of
the people suitable for women to occupy
and which they could fill with honor and 
credit, and men need not be afraid there
will be no room for them, because there are
vast tracts of land still uncultivated to be
made fertile and beautiful for habitations,
and while earth yields grain and fruits the
sower must go forth to sow, and the reaper
to reap, and women will be sure to come to
glean, following close upon their track, for
the immutable law of Jehovah will ever re-
main in force, consequently there is no need
to fear, for men and women will work side
by side better when all conditions are equal,
and the generations to come will be better
adapted to a higher civilization than those 
that were born under the old regime of
man's political supremacy and woman's
subjection.
	But as to the subject under consideration
shall the women of Utah vote in November,
it is devoutly to be wished, that the matter
will soon be settled by proper authority so
that there may be safety, and the new state
not endangered by any one attempting
what is not legal. And as to the laws reg-
ulating voters, the fact of naturalization is
an important one and should not be neg-
lected by foreign-born women. It must be
remembered that women are to vote in the 
new state upon the same platform as men,
consequently every woman who registers 
and votes must be a native born or natural-
ized citizen of the United States. Formerly
when the franchise was exercised by the
women of this territory many women took

[Column 3]
out their naturalization papers, but of late
years we have not noticed that such has
been the case, though men have been ad-
mitted to citizenship right along. There
should be no delay in this matter, it is of
vital importance but set about it directly
and see to it that you have everything done
legally, remember one vote counts the same
as another, high or low, rich or poor.


