MISS ANTHONY AND MISS SHAW.

[Extracts from California Notes.]

	"Anna Shaw captured the town." Busi-
ness men of notoriously conservative views,
who came to sneer, remained to applaud
her witty utterances, and came, and came
again. Yea, verily, Anna Howard Shaw,
we need thee, and must have thee to stump
the State for the campaign.
	The universal appreciation of Miss Shaw,
the honors tendered to her and dear "Aunt
Susan" in the shape of a banquet by the
Unitarian Club (consisting of prominent
and influential male citizens), and the offi-
cial action of the Board of Education in
ordering the schools closed at noon in order
to enable the teachers to hear Miss Anthony
(an unprecedented and most noteworthy
event in the history of the movement, in
my humble opinion), show that we are not
so unenlightened, after all; and when in ad-
dition Miss Anthony has done us the honor
to declare publicly that the papers of our
Pacific Coast women were equal if not su-
perior to any she had ever listened to, we
have reason to feel proud of our success,
and to hope that we may be permanently
delivered out of the slough of unenlighten-
ment by the triumph of our suffrage amend-
ment next fall.
	For which the petitioners do humbly
pray!
	These friends came to San Jose immedi-
ately after making the Joachinite trip.
Common mortals, in like conditions, pray
only to be let alone till sleep and solitude
bring recuperation; but this notable pair of
strong-minded individuals appeared quite
unconscious of fatigue at the reception Sat-
urday evening, June 8, to which Mrs.
Goodrich issued a general invitation through
the daily papers. On Sunday, the 9th,
Miss Shaw preached in the Santa Clara M.
E. Church in the morning, and in San Jose
at 3:30 p. m., in the First M. E. Church,
the largest Protestant church in the city, to
an immense audience, many staying during
the entire service, while hundreds were un-
able to get in. Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress in the evening to a crowded house in
the Unitarian Church, from which it is
readily to be seen that Sunday was not a
day of rest for our visitors; but all the same
they met their engagement at the State
Normal School at 8:40 Monday morning,
and were in happiest vein as they spoke to
that concourse of seven hundred prospective
teachers. It was beautiful to note the quick
response accorded by the youthful audience
to the speakers' good points. One can not
but be hopeful that seed sown in such cul-
tivated soil must bring forth abundantly.
After the speeches, the pupils rendered the
"Star Spangled Banner" and other patriotic
songs in fine voice and form, thus bringing
to a fitting close a most inspiring hour.


MRS. EMMA SMITH DEVOE has been
doing really remarkable work as an organizer
and raiser of equal rights funds in the West.


