IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLV.

	When Jane Harrison bade the Walton
children good-bye her her sorrow was very
keen notwithstanding her manifest self-
control; she felt there was much to be con-
sidered and perhaps it would be best for
the present that they should be with Mait-
land, it would she hoped and trusted be a
tie to bind him to his home. Her own
heart was sorely afflicted because of the war
which was disrupting the country and her
husband was taking an active part in pub-
lic affairs which every day assumed more
serious proportions. Sidney Barrington
was chaplain of a regiment stationed near,
and all this was decidedly against the
opinions of Maitland, though he was so
thoroughly indifferent to his country's
methods that he took little interest in what
Mrs. Harrison and others told him. Jane
Harrison was very patriotic in her way and
willing to make every sacrifice possible for
the cause of the colonies in their rebellion
against British rule, and to the utmost of
her ability she encouraged and stimulated
those women who were faint-hearted and
fearful of the final outcome.
	Some months went by and still Rob Har-
rison was away on duty and his wife had
only her woman and neighbors about, but
Conway had grown a great boy and com-
panionable, and they conversed much
together of the old castle, and the beautiful
scenery which the boy remembered well,
and his mother dwelt upon the serious

[Column 2]
wrongs inflicted upon the colonies by King
George, and the boy Conway would grow
quite enthusiastic as he listened to his
mother's eloquent portrayal of the hard-
ships endured by the early Pilgrims, and
the injustice of the mother country. Once
or twice he asked, "Why did you let Ed-
ward and Anna go back to live under such
a wicked King, a tyrant, could we not have
kept them here with us? now we shall never
see them for the King will never let ships
come when the war is over."
	"Never fear Conway," his mother ans-
wered, "they will be sure to come when
we are free, and stay with us, but you Con-
way, promise me you will be true to this
our land and never forsake it never, what-
ever betide." And the boy promised for
in reality Jane Harrison feared should any-
thing happen to her, that Clair would feel
it his right to take Conway back to Hilliard
castle.
	But Mrs. Harrison lived, a little daugh-
ter was born to her one stormy night when
her husband was miles away, and none but
her women were near her, yet she rejoiced
that she passed the ordeal safely for Con-
way's sake as well as the little stranger,
and she knew too, how glad her husband
would be for his first-born. Mrs. Harrison
recovered rapidly, in fact there was no time
to be ill, there was too much excitement
everywhere, and the most harrowing tales
were told from one to another of the hard-
ships and privations of those who were de-
fending their homes and country against
such fearful odds.
	At last on leave of absence her husband
came and her joy was almost too great, but
she exerted herself to be calm, and Mr.
Harrison displayed more emotion with all
his heroism than the patient mother who
had borne so much alone, waiting in ex-
pectancy of what she knew not. "Jane,
my dear wife, what shall we call our little
darling, you know I must soon be off again
and I should like her named while I am
here with you."
	Jane knew as women do naturally that
he would love to have his little one called
by the name of one he had loved when a
boy and quickly replied, "Let us name
her Clarice for Anna's mother, it would
have pleased Anna I am sure." "Always
brave and self-denying was there ever such
a woman as my true and loyal wife? I was
thinking we could call her Jane."
	"Oh no we cannot have two Jane's in
one house." "Then let it be Clarice since
you really wish it." and they both felt it
was right, and so it was settled. Sidney
came home too meantime and baby was
christened Clarice Harrison.
	When Clair and Maitland heard the
news of baby Harrison, they sent costly
presents and loving messages, and the
children Edward and Anna talked of noth-
ing else for weeks afterwards, and indeed
they never forgot the time when the letter
came bringing word of the little cousin
away over the water, the great sea of which
they had so often talked since they had
crossed it on their return to England.
Maitland allowed the children to go often
to the castle and stay there with Clair who
was very fond of them and they loved the
place much better than Walton Hall. Lady
Walton was very suspicious and sometimes
irritable with them sending them away just
when they were most anxious to be with
her, for she was always elegantly attired

[Column 3]
and everything about her of the most ele-
gant and costly ornaments, furnishings and
pictures and the children thought this
grand lady and her belongings as charming
as any fairy tale and sometimes when the
maid would tell them of fairyland and the
wonderful people who lived there, little
Anna would exclaim, "but mamma, Lady
Walton, is more beautiful than any of them."
Lady Walton was very proud of Edward
and also very fond of him, he bore the name
she loved best, and gave promise of being as
brave and as brilliant as Sir Edward had
been in his palmy days.
	The next event of great importance was
the sudden death of Lady Walton; and this
made a material change in the family ar-
rangements. Maitland's wife had never
cared for his mother with any degree of
affection, but had allowed her to retain the
place of honor, being too sensible to assert
herself though Maitland had sometimes in-
sisted upon her doing so; the children too
had been left more under her direction,
though sometimes for weeks together she
left them to the care of maids and govern-
neses. Now young Lady Walton assumed
the responsibility of the household, and
proposed to superintend the children.
	As is well known the war of the Revolu-
tion lasted for seven years and during that
period of time Robert and Jane Harrison
remained true to the allegiance given to the
colonies, and Robert Harrison was pro-
moted and given the title of Major, while
Sidney Barrington still true to his patriotic
convictions prayed and preached, and min-
istered comfort and consolation to many
hundreds of wounded and dying men. His
mission was a lofty one and he was ever
aided and encouraged in this work of love
by his aunt, Jane Harrison.
	Meantime very little was known of their
friends on the other side the water; party
feeling ran very high and there was no op-
portunity to argue or adjust questions re-
lating to differences of opinion. Their lives
drifted wide apart, all communication was
in a measure cut off. It was long after-
wards "when the cruel war was over," and
peace was restored, that some news came
indirectly at first that Clair Hilliard had
been abroad that a son had been born to
him, and his wife had died shortly after, and
he was left alone and desolate; that Mait-
land had not been so circumspect as it was
hoped he would be. Clair afterwards de-
cided to take his little son and go across the
sea to America and visit his cousin. News
from the relatives there was very encoura-
ging, and almost without warning, save a
message sent by a mutual friend, he arrived
late one summer evening at the handsome
residence of his cousin Jane. The meeting
was a very affecting one and many tears
were shed, and it was more like one coming
from another world. Mrs. Harrison was
deeply shocked at the change in her cousin
and felt unless he recuperated quickly, his
days were numbered. He was no longer
the light-hearted gay musician and singer,
but frail and care-worn, evidently the death
of his young wife, and the care and burden
of a large estate had taken much of his vi-
tality, and he had not the heart or the am-
bition to rise above these difficulties and
afflictions. Clair gave them good news of
Anna's children, told them of the beautiful
Anna, and the brave and captivating young
Edward, which was very gratifying to his
cousin.


