		THE END OF HIS ROPE.
	With the boundless resources of a glorious
contingent, man alone, where God said it
was not good for him to be, has brought
this republic to to its present stress. Man
has done his work as well as in his nature
he knew how to do it, but he is now at his
wit’s end; he has reached the end of his
rope. Oh, we have had a republic which
has been splendidly fathered, but it hasn’t
been mothered, and that’s what’s the mat-
ter with it to-day.
	Nature’s fundamental law has been set
aside. The inexorable law of the Almighty
has been abrogated. One of the two fac-
tors which should have been employed, has
been unused. Man’s work has been done,
woman’s work left undone. We are suf-
fering the penalty of outraged natural law.
God put men and women in the same world
together that they conjointly might work
out a high and holy outcome here on earth.
	Had the God of the universe intended
that men should work alone in a republic he
would probably have placed him on this
earth a full-orbed sufficiency and women
would have been placed on some other
planet.
	We shall not have a full-orbed, enduring
republic until we have woman nature ex-
pressed actively, intelligently, forcibly at
the ballot box. Then, in time, not in a day
or year, it was a long way from the gorilla
to the gentleman, woman as the conservator
of human life, will impress her nature on
the republic. Woman’s part in the repub-
lic will be on the Ways and Means com-
mittee, to sustain and provide for human
life. This committee will supersede the
committee on War and Navy appropriations.
Woman will provide for life, and man will
no more provide for death, via cannon, shot
and shell. With woman’s advent in the
republic the glory of the bayonet here will
pale, woman will transfer that halo to the
brow of moral heroes.
	To make home conditions for each and
every child born in the republic, to place
the republic upon the safe, sure foundation
of healthy, happy homes, to shatter the
shackles of industrial slaves, to set the
wheels spinning on toward that good time
when the constant strife for shelter and
bread shall not dwarf the soul, to uplift to
a plane that shall permit the uufoldment of
all that is sweetest, truest and  best in the
lives of the children of God, this is woman's
part in the republic.


