MRS. MESSENGER’S POEMS.
	
	When in Washington last winter a very
bright and pleasant lady was introduced to
me by a dear friend whom I met on my
first visit to the capital, and in introducing
the lady she said; My friend here, Mrs.
Messenger is a poet and an author which,
(as a matter of course) interested me very
much more, and after conversing with her
a few minutes, she promised to give me a
copy of her book, in return I promised to
make a notice of it after a careful review,
which I had not time to give for some
weeks, but have found some charming
verses and can safely recommend its perusal.
	The title is “The Vision of Gold,” which
is a long poem of real merit and then many
shorter poems. One rather lengthy poem
but very odd and quite a romance full of
clear-cut gems is Halloween, which opens
with an extract from Goethe.

	“And what is more deserving to survive,
	And silently to work for centuries,
	Than the confession of a gentle love
	Confided modestly to gentle song.”

	Mrs. Lillian Rozell Messenger is the full
name of the author of the book of poems
from which we republish some snatches as
specimens; all her poems are pure in lan-
guage and feeling, and show a mind gentle
and refined, as well as poetic talent and cul- 
tivation.
	From a poem entitled “Adieu.”
		“Good-night, sweet night;
		I must away though not to leave thee dumb,
		Nor very lone, for see the moon hath come
		And gives thee now a soul of light!”
	In a poem of three pages, all very good
called “The Press,” I have selected one
verse.


"As far as the desert spreads its night,
	In the forest or West or East,
The Press to the dreary will bear its light, 
		And knowledge shall be high-priest.” 
From one called “Fate.”
	"The murmur of joy in the young old tree,
		And echoes in two hearts below,
Who dream in love’s felicity
Which only the loving know. 
					“If.”
	"The little prayer I said for you,
	That floated out on violet wings
	Softer than roses twilight brings
	Between the sunset and the sea,—
	That angels named Felicity—
	Will ope the cold, dark door and roll
	The stone away from your dim soul
	Whence you will come to find instead
	Your higher self, peace wept as dead,
	And angels by, you never knew.
	If love be true! If love be true!
					“A Farewell.”
	"Good-bye, old year, good-bye!
	I hope that you buried all wrongs said,
	And the broken vows,let them rest in your tomb!
	For Oh, you’ve taken from me
	What will not return through the cycles fled,
	Nor be lost in eternity.”

	The book contains many gems. The
poem Farewell is a very beautiful one, we
have only quoted the last verse.
								E. B. W.


