died June 12th, 1878. He was our earliest
great poet and Thanatopsis one of his earli-
est poems. But when we call Bryant our
earliest poet and Thanatopsis our earliest
poem, we must not suppose that both had
not had many ineffectual predecessors.
Versifiers like gowns flourish for a time
and are then forgotten in favor of a later
fashion? Bryant being asked in 1818 to
write an article on American poetry for the
American Review, complied, and, among
the many names of poets mentioned in his
article the works of not one of them are
read today. All these volumes belong to
fossil literature, that may be dug up and
studied for the light it may throw on the
customs of a time, or its own intellectual de-
velopment, but which so far as its own vi-
tality is concerned has passed away beyond
hope of resuscitation. Almost coeval with
American Independence itself was the no-
tion that there ought to be an Independent
American literature. The revolution had
resulted in the formation of a republic new
in pattern, in opportunities, in ideals; a re-
public which having broken forever with
the political system of Britain would gladly
have been freed from all obligations, includ-
ing intellectual and aesthetic obligations to
her. We hardly realize how acute was the
sensitiveness of our great-grandfathers on
this point. The satisfaction they took in
recalling the victories of Bennington and
Yorktown vanished when they were re-
minded, and there was always some candid
foreigner at hand to remind them that a na-
tion's real greatness is measured not by the
size of its crops, nor by its millions of
square miles of surface, nor even by its
ability to whip King George the III,
armies but by its contributions to philos-
ophy, to literature, to art, to religion;
“What have you to show in these lines?”
We imagine the candid foreigner to have
been perpetually asking, and the patriotic
American to have winced as he had to re-
ply “nothing.”
	The Hebrew Patriarchs whose faith
Jehovah tested by denying them children
until their wives were aged, were not less
troubled at the postponement of their dear-
est wishes than were these eager watchers
for the advent of American genius. Long
before Bryant's little volume was published
in 1821, those watchers had begun to spec-
ulate as to the sort of work in which that
genius would manifest itself and there was
conjured up that bogy—The American
Spirit—which has flitted up and down
through our college lecture rooms and
fluttered the mind of immature critics ever
since. Consequently they did not ask “Is
it excellent?” but has it the American
spirit? Bryant himself must consciously or
unconsciously have been subjected to
those influences, for who can escape breath-
ing the common atmosphere? But he had
within him that which is more potent than

[column 2]
any external mold, and which is the one
trait in genius of any kind, he had sincerity.
What he saw he saw with his own eyes.
what he spake he spake with his own lips.
Bryant by merely being natural and sincere
was instantly recognized as belonging to
that lineage, every one of whose children is
a King.
	The story of his entrance into literature
cannot be too often told. His father was
a genial, fairly cultivated country doctor;
his mother, Sarah Snell, an indefatigable
housewife with Yankee common sense and
deep-grained Puritan principles. William
Cullen was precocious; both parents en-
couraged his aptitude for verse making. In
1810 he entered the Sophomore class of
William’s College and spent a year there.
He hoped to pass from William’s to Yale
where he looked for more advanced in-
structions, but his father's means did not
permit and instead of finishing his course at
William’s he went into a country lawyer’s
office and fitted himself for the bar Just
at the moment of indecision, in the autumn
of 1811 Byrant wrote Thanatopsis. Contrary
to his custom he did not show it to his
father but laid it away with other papers in
a drawer. Six years later his father, Dr. 
Bryant, found that and the “Waterfowl.”
He sent them to Boston and they appeared
in the Review for September 1817. The
young poet having completed his law
studies was practicing law at Great Barring-
ton unconscious of the fame about to de-
scend upon him; the best judges agreeing
at last that a bit of genuine American liter-
ature was before them, and the uncritical
but appreciative, from ministers to school
children, read, learned, admired and quoted
the grave sonorous lines. Thanatopsis is
composed of two Greek words, Thanatos,
meaning death, and opsis a view—a vision
of death. A strange corner stone for the
poetic literature of the nation which had
only lately sprung into life, a nation con-
scious as no other had been of its exuberant
vitality, of its boundless material resources,
of its expansiveness and invincible will.
Yet neither the glory achieved nor the am-
bition cherished fired the imagination of the
youthful poet. He looked upon the earth
and saw it but a vast grave. He looked
upon men and believed not their high at-
tainments nor the great deeds which herald
hnman story but their transcience, their
mortality. Nothing in life could so awe
him as the majestic mystery of death. A 
hundred years have elapsed since his birth;
three generations have known his works.
His poetry lives today and the qualities
which have vitalized it for three quarters of
a century show no signs of decay. There is
no doubt as to the veracity of his pictures,
and the moral tone which pervades them is
of a kind men will not soon outgrow. As
editor of N. Y. Evening Post, his editorials
were always full of dignity. He elevated
the level of the American newspaper. He
was never a snarling critic either of men or
of measures, and there was in the office of 
the paper a list of words and phrases not al-
lowed in its pages.


Bryant delighted in nature, for her own
sake, for her beauty and variety. What is 
more beautiful than these expressive lines
taken from “God’s First Temples.”

