THE EVOLUTION OF SUFFRAGE.
BY ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.
	The theory that “manhood suffrage” is
based on manhood strength,” and that every
voter must be a possible soldier is a very
plausible theory and commands careful con-
sideration, owing to the brilliant array of
names pledged to its support. One must
face this hypothesis as Copernicus con-
fronted the popular belief that the earth is
a stationary monarch, around which the
obsequious sun revolves as a satellite.
What may be called the “physical force
theory” of government, is a fallacy as im-
mensely widespread, as profoundly rooted
in popular prejudice, and as strongly main-
tained by those whose religious and politi-
cal systems depend upon it, as was the
Ptolemaic system of the universe.
	But fallacies are doomed to fail, and this
one is no exception to the rule. It is an
easily exploded error. The fine art of
critical examination of history is still in its
merest infancy. Modern man has taken a
superficial survey of the records of the past;
he has noticed that warriors have played an
important and conspicuous part in society’s
business, that warriors are chiefly of the
male sex, that, in Christendom, men both
vote and fight, and that, in Christendom,
women neither vote nor fight, and he has
jumped to the conclusion that voting is a
privilege born of fighting. Hence, the
women who credulously accept such state-
ment of facts and hasty conclusion, perse-
veringly argue that government is upheld
by physical force, and, consequently, “weak
woman” can have no part in it.
	Now, I believe that every fair-minded,
dispassionate person, who seeks, not to
prove herself on the winning side, but
simply to become a discoverer of truth,
may easily herself detect the falsity of such
theory of government. In the first place,
the very meaning of the word refutes such
an hypothesis; in the second, all human
history gives it denial in the third, every
family’s government demonstrates that
brute compulsion is a failuse and, in the
fourth place, each individual knows that it
is neither physical force nor the threat or
fear of physical force which governs her
actions. To govern is merely “to guide.”
In its essence, it is a purely voluntary ac-
ceptance of a leader, by one or by many,
whose affectionate trust is given to the per-
son or persons who seem to the governed to
be naturally fiitted for governing. As soon
as government passes out of this mutual
willingness between governors and gov-
erned it becomes war, and war is pure
chaos, so far as the objects of government
are concerned. The only good thing which
the human race has ever gained through
war is its present horror and detestation of
war. It has cost us millions of precious
lives, rivers of blood and mountains of
woes heaped upon woe, to purchase the
lesson that everything attempted by methods
of war may be more quickly, economically,
sensibly and happily won by the use of
reason.
	The Declaration of Rights, published by
our Continental Congress in 1774, affirms
that “The foundation of all free govern-
ment is a right in the people to participate
in their legislative council.” To this, the
Declaration of Independence,in 1776, added
the affirmation that no government is just
unless it derives its powers from the con-
sent of the governed and, when the time
came to publish our national Constitution,
its corner-stone proclaimed that “We, the
people of the United States,” found our
government upon justice, justice having
been previously defined in the principles
announced in the two declarations above
referred to.
	It is true that those principles, established
for us by a few lofty souls, were imperfectly
understood by the masses, while all the
powers and principalities of despotism
among us had a selfish motive for resisting
them to the bitter end. Behind us lay
thousands of years of despotic rule, which
had generated increasing arrogance, pride
and greed for power among those privileged
to wield authority over their fellows, and
which had ingrained habits of servility,
weakness and timidity among those sub-
jected to authority. On the side of the
ruling class reigned utter contempt for the
capacity of “the people” they were al-
luded to, even by historians,as “the scum,”
and it was deemed impossible to improve
their condition. Beside this general con-
tempt among the “nobility” for the masses
special class contempt prevailed wherever
one class held legal power over another.1
The clergy ruled the laity despotically, and
disdained to give them any voice in such
government; husbands ruled wives, simi-
larly, and all men similarly made and tried
to enforce laws upon all women.
	When our ancestors openly and solemnly
repudiated every form of government based
on a pretendedly “divine right,” and an-
nounced that, henceforward, we as a people,
would accept no right of government, save
self-government, the long battle between
Might and Right began. Far from won-
dering that it took seventy-four years to
eliminate human slavery from among a
people professing our principles, and that
Article 1 of our Constitutional Amend-
ments is still neither put in practice nor
even understood, and that the male people
are still so stupid as not to see they have no
just right to rule female people without
their ballot-given consent, we ought to
congratulate ourselves that the just cause
of self-government has made even such
progress as it has, in face of the tremen-
dous opposition, waged during the past
hundred and twenty years by despotisms of
every kind. Every inch of advance along
the line of true self-government by the
people, has been won at the cost of perse-
verance unto death, against terrible odd.
	The prophets of evil (the Cassandras of
conservatism) began immediately to fill the
air with clamorous protests against every
measure proposed in the interests of freedom
for the people. Vested Privilege shrieked
that religion would disappear and morality
decay, unless an established church were
given power by the State to compel the
people to accept dogmas—and to pay tithes.
Vested Privilege screamed that civilization
would die if slaves were not forced to the
drudgery that masters hated, and kept in
obedience by fear of blood-hounds and the
crack of a whip. And now Vested Privilege
is again howling that the family will disin-
tegrate and the home tumble into ruins; if
man should publicly recognize woman as
entitled to a vote in her government!
	O, ye of little faith! If you cannot be-
lieve that fidelity to just principles will pro-
duce good fruit, look at the demonstration
which all past human history affords of
this truth. By actual example it is proven


that, true civilization grows only as liberty,
and self-government grows that true re-
ligion flourishes and morality is pure only
where all are equally free; and that the
noblest specimens of both family and State
are found only when and where women
are least subjected to men, and are strug-
gling to uphold their right to perform their
duty as responsible citizens. Politics is
simply the joint business of those who con-
stitute the state. It is because the State is
but an expanded family that its interests
suffer, and must suffer, when the feminine
members of the expanded family close their
eyes, ears, heart and mind to the evils
arising through their own selfish apathy to-
ward the common weal.
	Over and over again history teaches this
lesson:—the same rule that makes for the
righteousness and prosperity of a family,
makes for the good of the State. Where
equity is established for all where all are
nterested, actively, in the happiness of all
where each allows the other the liberty
each prizes for him or for herself where
all are unselfishly willing to take turn in
serving as guides to those who want direc-
tion, but where no one strives to dominate
others by force,—there the conditions are
perfect for the highest human develop-
ment of both family and State.
	Whatever superficial readers of the past
may assert, every profound student of
history wilt find that no people on the face
of the earth ever rose to its “highest
civilization,” in “periods when women
were the slaves of men, when children were
the property of parents, when infanticide
was universal, when labor was despised,
and when there were no 'rights' natural,
or acquired, except for the warrior and the
patrician.”
	What is “civilization?” It is a social
condition based wholly on a life which is
opposed to militancy.
	To be civil is to be kind, gentle, courteous,
considerate of others, rendering unto them
the justice we wish them to give to our-
selves. Civilization is the state of being
refined in manners and of being free from 
the grossness of savage life.


