MRS. DIGGS OF KANSAS.

[Synopsis of address, National Convention
of Women, Washington, D. C.]

	It is a long way from the gorilla to the
gentleman. It is a long, long way from
the primal government to the republic.
	That persistent energy in nature which
has compelled a continuous though undula-
ting development of man and his govern-
ments has at last brought the civilized world
to a consensus of belief that a republic, a
democracy, a State in which the need and
the desires of the people constitute the
code of conduct is the best, the wisest and
the enduring form of government. Along
the way of progress from the gorilla to the
gentleman, and from the tribal to the re-
public, enough data have been gathered to
warrant the scientific declaration that all
active, productive, enduring life is dual.
Each rounded unit of life is made up of
hemispheres, each having separate functions,
each having distinctive work to do. In the
human duality it is a man’s part in the
work of life to clear the way, to overcome
obstacles and to lay foundations. It belongs
to man with his strong right arm to do
pioneering of every sort. To the other half
of the human duality belongs the later work;
woman’s work is supplemental. Woman
continues and completes the edifice of which
man has laid the foundation. At the heart
of that much-bemouthed phrase, “The
home is woman’s sphere,” lies the whole
great truth. It is woman’s part to make
and mold the home.
	The heaven of all human longing, the
canopy and shield of human life and human
endeavor, the school of human character,
the educator and conservator of social order,
the very bulwark and the vital breath of
human government is the wise, pure, sweet
home. Without the light that gleams from
wholesome hearthfires social order gropes
and fails. Without the character bred in
homes, there can be no true citizenship.
Without the home there can be no republic.
	What must a republic be that it shall
abide and endure? A republic can but be
the aggregation of its smaller epitomes—the
homes which evolve the character of its in-
dividual factors. A republic must be the
reflector of all social life. Its soul and its
essence, its vital breath must partake of the
nature of full-orbed human life. It must be
made up of the dual parts which, united,
constitute a home atmosphere, home con-
ditions, and safe, sweet home environments.
	Man alone cannot create and maintain
such a republic any more than he can create
and complete a home. It is not that man is
not “as good,” as just and as wise as wo-
men in his way; they simply have their
part in life to play, and it is not man’s part.
A woman’s republic might be just like a
man’s republic, but it would be
no nearer a real republic; it would violate
nature’s laws just the same it
would not have the same faults, but it
would have fatal faults just the same.
	For 6,000 years, and who knows how
much longer, men have been pioneering
along with governments, clearing the ob-
stacles, paving the way for the republic.
For a hundred years have men been play-
ing republic on North American soil. For
a sturdy, striving century man—the human
demi-sphere—has been trying in this re-
public to do the whole work of a full hu-
man orb. Not content with his natural


part of the work, foundation building, man
has been laboriously, not to whisper ludi-
crously, trying to do the work of his other
human half. He has been piling founda-
tion stones up to the height of the dome
and has called his work a complete edifice.
Dead failure. Proof, vide “Congressional
Record,” February 14, 1895, page 2415,
Hon. J. Proctor Knott’s letter. True,
every word of it.

