[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field]
As  many  do,  in  search  of  greening  fields 
And  buttercups  beneath  an  azure  sky; 
Who  thinks  he  garners  nature's  richest  yields 
Because  he  loves  a  narrow  country  lane 
Where  lilacs  blow;  because  he  lingers  where 
Sweet  grasses  feel  the  silver  touch  of  rain 
And  pampered  roses  freight  the  heavy  air. 
He'll  live  his  long  life  through  and  never  know 
The  wonder  of  this  desert's  blossoming: 
These  bright-winged  things  that  are  like  sunset  glow 
Or  crimson  flames  that  waken  in  the  spring, 
Wlien  God,  more  than  in  any  other  land. 
Flings  loveliness  across  the  arid  sand.

Sweeter  Than  Any  Story 
Hazel  K.  Todd 
JULIE  paused  before  the  type- 
writer on  the  desk.  For  a  brief 
minute  she  looked  at  the  rows 
of  keys  with  their  milhons  of  un- 
written words.  But  she  was  too 
tired.  Instead,  she  went  out  on  the 
porch  and  sat  in  the  late  daylight 
on  the  red  porch  chair  that  had  been 
scratched  by  little  feet  climbing  up 
and  down.  It  was  a  relief  just  to  sit 
for  a  few  minutes  with  no  babies 
tugging  at  her  skirts  and  no  im- 
mediate pressing  task.  The  three 
smallest  children  were  in  bed.  Peter 
and  Beth,  seven  and  nine,  were  play- 
ing with  a  group  of  neighbor  chil- 
dren. Frank  had  not  come  home  to 
his  evening  meal  yet,  so  she  had  a 
few  minutes  before  she  cleared  away 
the  supper  things.  But  she  had  no 
heart  for  anything  but  just  to  sit. 
Since  before  the  twins  were  born 
a  year  and  a  half  ago,  it  seemed  she 
had  hardly  had  a  night's  sleep  with- 
out uncomfortable  feelings  or  cry- 
ing babies.  Then  there  was  all  the 
sickness  of  the  past  year,  tonsils  and 
measles,  and  little  four-year-old  Ter- 
ry's ruptured  appendix.  Now,  with 
the  thoughts  of  a  new  one  to  nurse 
through  cutting  teeth  and  all  the 
other  baby  hardships,  she  was  filled 
with  self-pity  and  resentment. 
Besides,  there  were  all  the  stories 
she  meant  to  write  some  day.  How 
her  fingers  itched  sometimes  to  tap 
out  on  the  typewriter  some  of  the 
things  that  came  and  went  mysti- 
cally through  her  mind  while  she 
ironed  little  dresses  and  sewed  shirt 
buttons.  She  had  thought,  with  the 
children  growing  older,  she  might 
have  a  chance.  But  now  another 
baby  was  coming  to  take  all  her 
time. 
Across  the  yard  in  the  early  twi- 
light she  could  see  Mrs.  Nelson,  her 
newest  neighbor,  working  in  her 
flowers.  How  carefree  she  looked, 
cutting  roses,  slim  in  her  cool  dress 
with  a  bright  kerchief  around  her 
hair.  Morning  and  evening  she  had 
time  to  trim  roses  or  tie  up  sweet 
peas.  But  then,  she  had  no  chil- 
dren, never  any  little  dirty  faces 
to  wash,  or  baby  food  to  prepare. 
Now  she  was  running  across  the 
grass  to  her  husband,  coming  up  the 
walk.  Julie  bit  her  lip.  She  used 
to  run  to  meet  Frank.  Now  she 
wondered  if  she  would  ever  run 
again.  She  watched  them  standing 
by  a  half  dozen  lilies  with  long, 
slender  stalks.  She  had  seen  Mrs. 
Nelson  fuss  with  them  often.  She 
looked  at  her  own  shaggy  garden. 
Only  today  the  twins  had  mad^  the 
kitten  a  bed  in  the  middle  of  her 
double  petunias.  They  lay  mashed 
and  broken,  just  a  ragged  mess  of 
leaves  and  wilted  color.  Suddenly 
hot  tears  sprang  to  her  eyes.  It  was 
so  easy  to  cry  now. 
CHE  brushed  the  tears  away  and 
the  hair  that  had  fallen  over  her 
face.  As  she  did  so,  her  glance 
reached  across  the  yard  again.  Mrs. 
Nelson  was  looking  at  her  curiously. 
She  was  alone,  now,  holding  a  bou- 
quet of  sweet  peas.  Since  early 
spring  they  had  lived  with  only  a 
lane  between  them,  and  there  had 
been  no  more  conversation  than  a 
Page  257

258