[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Now We Are Gabbott]
headers  to  come  next  week.  Then 
of  course,  you  know  we've  got  to 
thresh.  Besides  there's  a  lot  of  stuff 
in  the  garden  yet  to  dig.  Why, 
we've  got  enough  food  to  last  us  all 
winter." 
"Honey,  I  saw  you  chasing  those 
cattle  when  we  were  down  in  the 
valley,  and  I  knew  what  a  killing  or- 
deal you  were  having.  I've  tried  it 
myself.  And  I  said  to  Delia,  then, 
'Sis,  you're  right,  the  meanest  thing 
I  ever  did  was  to  bring  Anne  out  to 
this  forsaken  place.'"  Joe's  voice 
quivered. 
"But,  dear,  you're  here  now. 
Everything'll  be  easy.  I  don't  want 
to  leave,  not  yet.  Our  job  isn't  fin- 
ished here.  I'm  a  changed  woman, 
Joe;  I've  learned  to  see  so  many 
things  your  way." 
"And  I've  learned  to  see  things 
your  way,"  protested  Joe.  "I  guess  it 
was  just  stupid  of  me  to  get  so  at- 
tached to  this  place." 
They  began  to  follow  Delia  and 
the  children  to  the  house,  but  before 
they  had  gone  many  steps,  they  were 
aware  of  Hadfield  riding  into  the 
yard. 
"Hello,  Joe,"  he  said.  "I'm  glad 
to  see  you  back,  and  I  want  to  tell 
you  this  little  wife  of  yours  has  sure 
looked  after  things."  Hadfield 
leaned  on  the  horn  of  his  saddle  and 
looked  down  into  their  serious  faces. 
"I  hope  your  legs  are  all  right." 
"They'll  be  as  good  as  ever  in  a 
few  more  weeks,"  replied  Joe. 
"Well,  how  about  the  deal?"  Had- 
field came  to  the  point. 
"Oh,  yes,  the  deal  for  the  place. 
Well,  honestly,  Mr.  Hadfield,  we've 
decided  not  to  sell  for  the  present, 
but  we'll  still  give  you  a  chance  if 
we  decide  to  later,"  replied  Joe, 
reaching  the  decision  so  quickly  he 
was  half-afraid,  and  looked  at  Anne 
to  see  if  she  approved. 
"That's  right,"  said  Anne.  "We're 
going  to  make  ever  so  many  im- 
provements first,  however,  so  we 
can  get  a  good  price  for  it." 
Hadfield's  face  clouded.  "I've 
already  made  a  payment  on  it,  you 
know." 
"Oh,  yes,  the  check."  Joe  fumbled 
in  his  pocket,  and  finally  produced 
the  one  evidence  of  the  sale.  "Here 
it  is.  You  see,  I  didn't  cash  it.  I 
was  able  to  make  other  arrange- 
ments for  my  hospital  bill." 
He  held  it  up,  but  Anne  took  it, 
and  tore  it  to  bits.  "Mr.  Hadfield 
doesn't  want  it.  His  money's  all  in 
the  bank  and  everybody's  happy." 
Anne  laughed  impudently,  then  hys- 
terically, but  in  a  moment  she  was 
crying  again.  "You  won't  try  to 
hold  us  to  it,  will  you?" 
The  scowl  on  Hadrield's  hawk- 
like face  broadened  into  a  grin.  "You 
win,"  he  said,  "good  luck." 
'T^HE  sporting  wind  was  cool   and 
soothing  when   Anne  and   Joe 
reached  the  hilltop  to  watch  the  sun

WINDY  HILLTOP  2S1 
go  down,   and    a    lone  hawk   was  that,  your  little  cottage  in  town   is 
spreading  his  wings  to  cut  a  true  still  going  to  come  true." 
course  directly  against  the  current.  She  looked  up  questioningly. 
Hand  in   hand,   they  stood   silent  ''We're  about    the   last    of    the 
against  the  benediction  of  the  sky,  homesteaders,  and  we  can  be  thank- 
surrounded  by  the  vast  solitude.  ful  to  have  had  such  an  opportunity. 
"How  often  I  pictured  this  place  This  humble  heritage  should  always 
in  my  mind  when  I  was  lying  in  the  be  ours  and  our  children's.  I  have  a 
hospital,"  Joe  said  reflectively.  good  trade,  and  there  are  still  other 
"And  were  unhappy  to  think  of  ^^'"^f  ^  ^^"  ^^  i",  ^^^  Wmtti    And, 
losing  it,"  prompted  Anne.  y^."^    kc"!''^^         ^  
""^^  ^"^          """ 
Joe  grinned.  "Yes,  I  admit  it."  ^^^^  ^^^^^^^  the  vision  instantly. 
They  surveyed  their  rough  acres,  "What   wonderful    summers    we'll 
partly  subdued  by  their  toil,  and  a  have  here  while    the   children   are 
mutual  pride  of  achievement  pos-  growing  up,  and  what  grand  things 
sessed  them.    "Darling,"  said  Anne,  we'll  raise  to  eat.    All  our  friends  in 
"as  soon  as  you  were  hurt,  and  I  town  will  be  jealous  because  we  have 
started  to  feel  responsible,  I  began  a  country  home  and  a  city  home, 
to  love  everything  here,  and  with  too."    She  laughed  as  the  wmd  blew 
you  gone,  I  began  to  realize  how  it  Y'  ^'']^^'\  ^^''  '"  T'^^  ^^^""^^     ^ 
bound  us  together."  ^^^f  •    Lookmg  up,  she  saw  the  hawk 
°  make  a  magnificent   dive  into  the 
Fervently,  he  drew  her  to  him.  wind. 
"Dear,  you  are  wonderful.    I  don't  ''Our  wings   are   set  right,"   she 
believe  any  other  man  ever  had  such  murmured,  putting  her  lips  up  to  be 
a  heroic  little  wife.  And  because  of  kissed. 
PLEA 
Margaret  Jenkins 
O  Savior,  thou  who  suffered  all, 
When  sorrow  fills  the  night, 
Help  us  to  put  our  hands  in  thine 
And  walk  towards  the  light. 
A  SIMILE 
Loie  M.  Beach 
A  baby  is  like  a  breath  of  spring, 
A  tiny,  sweet,  refreshing  thing, 
Each  day  a  change,  and  as  it  grows. 
It  blossoms  like  a  summer  rose.

A  New  Coat  for  an  Old  One 
Blanche  N.  Coe 
WOULD  you  like  to  convert 
an  old,  straight  coat  into  a 
new,  flared  model  to  wear 
with  full,  long  dresses?  By  carefully 
following  the  directions  given  in  this 
article,  you  can  perform  this  trans- 
formation. 
Before  you  begin  the  remodeling 
process,  carefully  observe  the  way  in 
which  the  bottom  of  the  coat  is  fin- 
ished so  that  you  can  refinish  the 
new  one  in  the  same  way. 
First,  make  a  chalk  mark  around 
the  sleeve  halfway  between  the  in- 
side of  the  elbow  joint  and  the  wrist 
joint.  Cut  at  the  chalk  mark.  (See 
Diagram  A).  Carefully  press  with 
a  damp  cloth  the  pieces  you  have 
cut  off  as  you  are  going  to  use  them 
later. 
Open  the  underarm  seam  of  the 
sleeve  almost  to  the  armhole.  Also 
open  the  inside  seam  of  the  lining 
of  the  sleeve  almost  to  the  armhole. 
Remove  the  padding  at  the  top  of 
the  sleeve  and  at  the  shoulder  and 
insert  the  new-style  padding  for  the 
shoulder.  After  you  have  placed  pad 
correctly,  put  a  tailor's  mitt  in  the 
top  of  the  sleeve  and  shoulder,  cover 
with  a  cloth  wrung  from  warm  wat- 
er, and  steam-press  into  shape.  If 
the  material  in  your  coat  won't 
shrink  into  a  nice  shape,  the  top  of 
the  armhole  seam  can  be  opened 
and  part  of  the  old  sleeve  cut  out  to 
make  it  fit  the  new  pad. 
With  a  thin  piece  of  tailor's  chalk, 
or  a  piece  of  soap,  mark  the  new 
hemline  of  the  coat  evenly,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  below  the  finger- 
tips when  the  hands  are  hanging  at 
Page  268 
the  sides.  Use  a  yardstick  so  that 
the  bottom  of  the  coat  is  exactly  the 
same  distance  from  the  floor  at 
every  point.  Cut  on  the  dotted  line 
of  the  chalk  marks.  (See  Diagram 
A). 
Diagram  B  represents  one  of  the 
pieces  cut  off  from  each  sleeve.  From 
each  piece  cut  a  triangle  (i.)  with 
which  to  widen  the  sleeves  (See 
Diagram  C ) .  Make  a  triangle  pat- 
tern with  paper  as  long  as  the  arm 
seam  opening  and  as  wide  as  the 
goods  allows  and  lay  the  pattern  on 
the  cloth  as  shown  in  Diagram  B. 
Sew  the  flare  (triangle)  in  place  as 
shown  in  Diagram  C,  with  the  wide 
part  of  the  triangle  at  the  bottom 
of  the  sleeve. 
Open  the  side  seams  of  the  coat 
and  lining  almost  to  the  armhole. 
From  the  piece  which  you  have 
cut  off  the  bottom  of  the  coat  cut 
two  flares,  (triangles  2  and  3),  to 
put  into  the  side  openings  of  the 
coat,  one  for  each  side.  Also  cut 
the  circular  pieces  (4)  to  be, put  in 
the  bottom  of  each  sleeve  from  this 
same  piece  of  material.  Cut  these 
circles  as  large  as  possible.  The  dia- 
grams (D-i  and  D-2)  show  two  ways 
of  doing  this.  If  the  piece  of  ma- 
terial cut  from  the  bottom  of  the 
coat  is  sufficiently  wide,  and  the 
pattern  of  the  material  is  such  that 
it  can  be  used  crosswise,  then  cut  as 
in  Diagram  D-i.  If  the  pattern  of 
the  material,  however,  such  as  a 
stripe,  cannot  be  used  crosswise, 
then  cut  as  in  Diagram  D-2.  Join 
the  pieces  carefully,  matching  the 
notches  of  2  and  3,  and  press  the
