[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Annual Sharp]
step  on  a  prickly  pear  or  a  sharp 
stone.  A  quarter  of  a  rpile  farther  on 
she  came  to  the  road  again.  Over  the 
brow  of  the  next  hill  she  could  see 
the  top  of  a  windmill  that  marked 
the  Home  ranch.  Mrs.  Home 
would  say  she  was  late  again  and 
why  wasn't  she  like  Marie. 
Suddenly  a  horse  came  galloping 
around  a  turn  in  the  road,  followed 
by  a  paint  pony— Angus  Johnson 
and  Pete  Jim. 
"Stangers  have  corralled  Star- 
light," Angus  yelled  as  he  passed. 
^'StaiUghtr  Pete  echoed,  lashing 
his  pony  from  side  to  side. 
Gloria  froze.  Dust  swirled  about 
her  face  and  she  did  not  know  it. 
What  had  Angus  said?  Stangers  had 
corralled  Starlight.  Stangers  had  .  .  . 
With  a  sudden  leap,  she  sped  down 
the  road  toward  home.  Stangers  had 
corralled  Starlight.  Throwing  open 
the  kitchen  door,  she  reached  into 
the  cupboard  for  her  pencils  and 
pad. 
Even  by  cutting  over  the  hills,  it 
was  four  miles  to  the  Stanger  ranch.

228 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
Gloria's  face  was  red  and  streaked 
with  dust  as  she  came  panting  into 
the  yard  where  the  stallion  was  be- 
ing held.  Men  of  every  age,  ranch- 
ers and  dry-farmers,  even  a  few  from 
town,  were  crowding  about  and  on- 
to a  high  pole  fence. 
''Get  back/'  a  man  spoke  rudely 
as  the  girl  tried  to  force  a  way  to  the 
top  pole.  "Get  gone.  This  is  no 
place  for  girls.  That  animal  is  a 
killer." 
'Teave  me  alone!"  Gloria  kicked 
at  him  with  one  foot. 
''Come  on,  wildcat.  Beat  it.  Go 
home  to  your  mother."  The  man 
laid  his  hands  on  her  and  would  have 
lifted  her  to  the  ground,  but  just 
then  a  hoarse  shout  went  up  from 
the  crowd.  The  man  turned  hur- 
riedly lest  he  miss  something. 
Gloria  sat  on  the  top  and  nudged 
her  toes  between  two  lower  poles. 
She  drew  a  deep  breath.  There  he 
was.  There  he  was,  her  Starlight. 
Never  in  all  the  world  had  there 
been  another  like  him.  He  was— he 
was  unbelievable.  Her  fingers 
moved  surely,  smoothly  over  the 
paper. 
Indifferent  as  to  how  the  stallion 
had  been  corralled,  indifferent  to 
the  sweating,  swearing  men;  only 
vaguely  conscious  that  men,  horse- 
back and  on  foot,  were  venturing 
into  the  corral  and  dashing  out 
again;  through  all  the  dust  and  con- 
fusion Gloria^s  attention  was  on  her 
never-quiet  model.  Once  the  stal- 
lion plunged  straight  toward  her  and 
the  fence  emptied  like  magic.  When 
the  men  climbed  back  Pete  Jim  was 
on  one  side  of  her  and  his  father  on 
the  other. 
Then,  for  one  priceless  moment. 
Starlight  stood  in  the  center  of  the 
corral,  his  tail  high,  mane  blowing. 
eyes  dilated  with  terror  and  chal- 
lenge. Don't  move,  oh,  don't  move/ 
Line  by  line,  stroke  by  stroke,  the 
horse  grew  on  the  paper;  a  horse  so 
perfect  in  form  and  arrested  move- 
ment the  Indians  lost  interest  in  the 
live  animal.  Five  minutes  more  .  .  . 
"He's  wearing  down!"  "Watch 
out,  everybody!"  "Now  is  the  time 
to  get  him!"  "Jim  Stanger  is  going 
in  on  his  roan!" 
/^LORIA  sensed  the  tension  at  the 
gate.  She  saw  Starlight  gather 
his  muscles  for  the  try;  she  saw  him 
leap;  she  knew  he  had  scattered  the 
men  at  the  gate  and  was  gone. 
A  roar  of  disappointment  went 
up  from  the  crowd.  Men  flung 
themselves  on  their  horses  and  gave 
chase.  The  yard  was  suddenly 
empty.  Gloria  sat  motionless,  ex- 
cept for  her  arm  and  hand.  She 
must  catch  those  last  lines  before 
the  picture  faded  from  her  mind. 
When  at  last  she  had  finished  and, 
with  a  tired  sigh,  raised  her  eyes,  she 
was  alone  on  the  fence  except  for 
Pete  and  his  father.  The  older  In- 
dian, a  braid  hanging  over  each 
shoulder,  pushed^  back  his  hat  and 
black  eyes  looked  into  blue  ones. 
"Good,"  he  said  shortiy,  and  the 
girl's  tired,  reddened  face  brightened. 
"We  are  camped  down  by  the 
Narrows,"  Pete  told  her,  as  he  slid 
from  the  fence  to  follow  his  father. 
The  four  miles  home  were  end- 
less. Gradually  the  fever  of  creation 
left  the  girl,  and  what  she  had  to 
face  at  home  loomed  unendurable. 
They  would  not  laugh  this  time. 
They  would  have  tight  mouths  and 
hard  eyes.  Papa  might  ....  Oh, 
Papa,  Papa.  His  birthday  was  near- 
ly over,  and  she  had  nothing  for  him. 
(Continued  on  page  283)

U\elief  Society   [Jouilding    llews 
WE  
are  delighted  with  the  spirit  with  which  our  Rehef  Society  women 
are  contributing  to  the  Rehef  Society  Building  fund.    It  indicates 
a  strong  testimony  of  the  gospel  and  a  sincere  appreciation  of  the 
value  of  Relief  Society. 
In  making  their  individual  contributions  the  sisters  are  assuring  them- 
selves of  great  satisfaction,  for  our  prophet,  George  Albert  Smith,  in  his  con- 
ference address  of  October  2,  1946,  promised  that  it  would  be  a  most 
"gratifying  experience  for  the  daughters  of  Zion  to  feel  that  they  had  been 
able  to  provide  themselves  a  suitable  home."  He  also  said  that  in  doing  so 
they  would  find  great  happiness. 
We  all  have  a  feeling  of  pride  in  the  beauty  and  magnificence  of  the 
Church  office  building  when  we  visit  there  or  take  our  out-of-town  friends 
to  see  the  building.  How  our  pride  swells  when  we  visit  the  magnificent 
'This  Is  the  Place"  monument,  dedicated  last  year  in  honor  of  our  pioneers, 
and  know  we  had  a  share  in  helping  to  build  it.  And  that  pride  will  in- 
crease with  the  years.  Most  of  us  have  at  times  heard  someone  say  with 
pride  that  he  contributed  to  or  assisted  in  the  building  of  one  of  the  tem- 
ples. It  will  be  just  as  great  a  source  of  joy  for  each  of  us  to  be  able  to  say, 
''I  helped  in  the  building  of  this  wonderful  Relief  Society  building." 
Here  is  an  excerpt  from  a  letter  from  one  of  the  missions: 
Many  favorable  reports  have  come  from  the  branches  concerning  their  share  in  this 
project.  The  sisters  have  expressed  a  keen  desire  to  be  a  part  of  this  great  drive  and  to 
feel  that  they  will  actually  own  a  part  of  the  building.  This  feeling  is  akin  to  owning 
one's  own  home.  The  example  has  inspired  smaller  groups  to  own  and  furnish  their 
own  Relief  Society  room  where  before  they  were  content  to  meet  in  a  hall  or  a  home. 
Many  ways  and  means  are  being  employed  to  raise  the  money.  These  projects  alone 
will  knit  the  women  more  closely  and  will  bring  about  a  feeling  of  unity. 
Page  229