freedoms for which it stands. Pretense and folly are lost, for the moment, in reverence. Eyes are alight with pride and the spark of renewed ideals. The throat tightens as the parade, a colorful and symbolic pageant, moves down the street, historically depicting the scenes and achievements of the past. And we of the present generation can but stand and watch—and measure the adequacy of the present. Handcarts... I cannot follow them down the street. I cannot see them for my tears. "Come, Come, Ye Saints" That song is the embodiment of faith and the prayers that brought our people here. The cords of restraint all but snap, for to me it is my own parents singing It is their story I relive today we OK OK ok INTER came early in the year 1857. Almost before the fall days were done there was a heavy frost and the world seemed enveloped in a damp, thick blanket of fog. Every day it grew colder. Trees cracked in their bark and the sound was like ice popping on the Virgin River. The dampness penetrated every cranny of house and _ body. Cattle died on the range and corral stock could stand only by leaning against inadequate shelters and fences. 'The people, reduced to smutty flour for their coarse bread, with little milk or fruit, became inert like the half-frozen animals. But with the first intimation of spring the natural resilience of the pioneers called forth new courage, as surely as the warming of the sun called forth new grass. And, because horses were too poor for travel, a pioneer boy began a thirty-five-mile walk to the town where his sweetheart lived. The dawn was still raw with cold, but the air was freighted with the scent of coming buds and thawing ground. It was a good world. It made a man feel strong and free. Twelve hours later, in the welcoming, mild dusk, he swung in long strides up the street and to the house of the girl he loved. Together, they welcomed spring. Because of their distance from the Endowment House, they were married the next day by the girl's reluctant father and, in a borrowed wagon, drawn by a borrowed team, they began the journey to the town that was to be their new home. The boy had exactly a dollar and eightyfive cents. The girl had two dollars and a half, a chest packed to its bulging lid with homespuns, rugs, a Page 435 436 meager assortment of cooking utensils and dishes, and a few small packets of sugar, sage, and thyme. And, stowed carefully into the back of the wagon, was a small four-lid cookstove, her dead mother's most prized possession, now the binding link between the old life and the new for the young bride. The joint heritage of both the boy and the girl was an unshaken faith in the goodness of life and their part in it. Two days of creaking, jolting travel and the borrowed team pulled the borrowed wagon into the yard of the borrowed dugout that was to be their first home. The sun had gone down in a blaze of orange light. Strange sounds filled the twilight, sounds that saddened the girl by their unfamiliarity since they were part of the unknown that lay ahead. The boy turned the homemade key in the handmade lock, and they went into the windowless little dugout. And suddenly, because they were together, it became home. THERE followed days, weeks, and months of hardship and privation—drought, snakes, insects, hunger, fear. Sometimes, even doubt. A son was born, too frail and weak to survive in his rigid surroundings. There was little but faith left, yet it was enough to heal their sorrow and send them in search of a new and better location. The boy, in the new settlement, was assigned his section of land, did his allotted rods of fencing in the company plot, worked and prayed, fought Indians, guarded the fort; dreamed and waited for the good future he knew would be theirs. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 The girl, pressing back fatigue, hunger, fear, and sorrow, kept her faith, too. And she kept her smile and her love for her husband. "T see a little light," she would tell him, "we'll be prosperous some day, I have no doubt; but never more blessed than we are now. We'll have other children—sons and daughters who will be faithful and happy. All that we do now is for them." And the boy agreed. For, by then, they had a home, a garden, milk, and honey. And none of it was borrowed. Surely, God had been good to them. Then came another spring and another little new son. A strong boy, equal to his surroundings, beautiful as their faith. Then, as if to test them, they were called to help colonize in a high, cold climate that was foreign to them and seemingly barren of promise. But neither faltered. The boy left the girl to care for the little new son while he went ahead to prepare a home in the new place. The summer was hot and long. 'The girl and her baby were stricken with measles. Denied water to cool the fever and with little care by the frightened neighbors, who knew there was little they could do to stop the ravages of any disease, the baby died and the gitl was left alone. But she kept her faith and prayed to live, prayed for strength to bear her loneliness, prayed that the runner would find her husband soon and bring him home. And because of her faith, when the boy came, he found her smiling we Ke Ke "Utah, We love thee. Land of FOR THOSE WHO COME AFTER the mountains high, land of the sunny sky" Yes, Utah, we love thee! The pioneer floats were gone, now, lost in the parade. High school bands came gaily into view —smartly costumed boys and girls, playing with all the glad young strength of their hearts, their steps high with hope.... Floats depicting the state's prosperity.... Mining, manufacturing, building Agriculture, giant peaches, golden as the sunset shimmering on Great Salt Lake; celery as crisp and fresh as a mountain breeze; rainbows of flowers; floats of children, singing The new generations. And because of them, blessed be the old, the pioneer generation. A good heritage for us who pioneer in a new, and equally testing age. What is our stature? * Kk Ke & CROSS the valley, miles from the scene of the parade, is a little house, set well back in a halfacre lot, surrounded by a hopeful lawn and struggling young shrubs; wild columbine against the foundation; a steppingstone path and a waggly tailed little dog to welcome us. 'T'oday's young parents live here, and the place is their own. "I want to see what I can do on my own," the boy said. "Do you think you can take it?" "If I can't, what has my education been worth?" she countered. She is young and fair-skinned, enthusiastic as a spring day—and as hospitable. He is not home, but as she takes us through the compact little house, we see him through her eyes—young, ambitious, eager to put his heritage to the test. And such 437 dreams they have, and faith, and ideals; these modern edition pioneers, as Courageous as were my 1857 boy and girl! By the work of their hands and their minds, they have managed to preserve the culture and dignity, the courage and foresight of their ancestors. Four years of navy service and college for him, four years of making things do and getting things done, for her. Three rooms built of pumice blocks, plastered by hand just to see if he could, painted by her just to see if she could. Her eyes shine as she shows us where the lintels are placed, for doors to new rooms are already planned and, when the little house begins to get growing pains, out will come a few blocks and there the door will be. With $2,000 saved from his service days, the house was built. From the attic and basement of their parents' homes, came the furnishings. Carefully refinished or slip-covered, these pieces look modern and inviting. And there is a real little cradle, of pioneer vintage from her own and her mother's baby days. Doors, windows, marble mantle and hearth, pressed stone for the kitchen work table tops, are anniversary, birthday, and Christmas gifts from their two families and their many friends. "If I begin to wish there were more such anniversaries," she confided, laughing a little, "I remind myself of all the things the real pioneers didn't have and never even dreamed of having: radiant heat, electric lights, automatic stoves and washing machines, refrigeration, doctors to apply the sciences that have brought children's diseases down to Nellie Ward Neal Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Roxey Robson Heslop President, Primary Association, Farr West Stake descendant of stalwart pioneers and one who has striven all her life to uphold their traditions and_ standards, Nellie Ward Neal comes well qualified for her appointment, on May 4, 1949, to the general board of Relief Society. Her new assignment is a fitting climax to her activity in the auxilary organizations of the Church. She has served efficiently as secretary, class leader, and counselor in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, as a Sunday School teacher, a Religion Class stake board member, and a counselor in Primary, but her greatest achievement and joy have come in Relief Society service. As a theology class leader, her lessons were well prepared and interestingly presented. The families in her district always welcomed her as a visiting teacher. In February 1939, she was called to be president of Plain City Ward Relief Society, being released in September of that year to become president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. January 18, 1942, at the division of the stake, she was chosen to preside in the new Farr West Stake and has continued in that calling until the present time. In this position, she has been a member of the executive council for the Latter-day Saint girls' program, which included for some time the NELLIE WARD NEAL preparation of the mothers and daughters meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences. She was Relief Society representative on the first Ogden Deseret Industries Committee, and vice chairman and later chairman of the Relief Society presidents department of the Northern Utah Region in welfare work. She performed faithfully and competently all the duties devolving upon her. A patriarchal blessing, given by her grandfather, James Ward, which promised that the spirit that led her Page 439 440 forefathers from the land of their nativity would be her constant companion in her labors, has had a powerful influence in her life. She was born in North Ogden, Weber County, Utah, a daughter of Lorenzo and Mary E. Barker Ward. She and Roosevelt Neal were married June 6, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple, and established their home in Plain City. He and their nineteen-year-old twin children, Donald and Dorothy, have given wholehearted assistance to Sister Neal in all her Church work. She has always been interested in educational pursuits. She graduated from Weber Academy and Weber Normal College and has taken extension courses from Utah State Agricultural College, the University of Utah, and Brigham Young University. She taught school in Ogden and Weber County. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Her bits of verse have been sent to many friends for Christmas, birthdays, in times of discouragement and sorrow, or as a kindly thought of remembrance for some service rendered. They have also added beauty and inspiration to many programs. Thoughtfulness, friendliness, a keen sense of humor, sincerity, humility, devotion to duty, love of God and all his creations, and a fervent testimony of the gospel are virtues which qualify her for the position of responsibility to which she has been called. Hosts of friends are saying, "Coneratulations, Nellie. We love you. Thanks for your help along the way. You have inspired us with your faith and diligence. May our Heavenly Father grant you his choicest blessings in your new appointment." Little Sure Feet Iris W. Schow Through the long' days, over hillock and flat, Little feet measured the length of the Platte; "Stepped off" the rising slopes, through the coarse grass; Bruised by the jutting rocks, gained the South Pass; Over the steepest ways, pressed right along; Youth put wings to their tread; trust kept them strong. Now, tough steel tools, guided by a trained hand, Measure the breadth of our civilized land; But the survey which was real and complete Was made, step by step, with little sure feet. Biobege C. Cameron Johns Thoughts are worlds About to start, But words stay chiseled On the heart. Mood of Music Ruth Harwood Were I to sing to you today The music of my mood, The essence of my song would be A psalm of gratitude. The Land of the High Uintahs Olive W. Burt HE Uintah Basin in Utah, with its surrounding country, is a magnificent, unspoiled area, parts of which remain almost as they were when the Mormon pioneers came into the Great Basin. Or you can go back further, carried by the remnants of old forts, inscriptions scrawled upon sheer canyon walls, names of mountains and rivers, to the wild, free days of the Mountain Men, or on back to the days of ancient Indian tribes whose mark is faint but unmistakable—or even go back to the day of the dinosaur. Truly, the flavor of age is nowhere else so pervasive and compelling as it is in the northeastern part of the State. The Uintah Basin is bounded on the north by the Uintah Mountains, one of the few important east-west mountain ranges in the country. It '5 a beautiful range, with the highest peaks in the State rising majestically into the unsullied sky. They look peaceful, as if nothing could disturb them, but they have known disaster. They have felt the great heaving upthrust that tilted them high above their old resting place; they have felt the clawing fingers of glaciers, scraping ugly gashes across their face and breast. But they have waited quietly, until the scars were healed with pine and spruce, with flower-enameled grass, and shrubs sweet with wild fruit. Above the 125-mile-long chain of lesser slopes, rises King's Peak, highest point in the State; with Wilson, Hayden, Marsh, and Leidy peaks and Mount Lovenia, all rising more than 12,000 feet. Below their snowy summits are hundreds of jewel-like, glacial lakes, fed by sparkling mountain streams, and teeming with trout and mackerel: Mirror, Grandaddy, Moon, Island, Pyramid, Green, to name only a few of the best known. While an automobile road has been built into this alpine region as far as Mirror Lake, the area iS really unspoiled and will remain SO, as it has been set aside by the Federal Government as a permanent "primitive area." In the most frequented spots, such as Mirror Lake, the gateway to the Grandaddy tegion, Moon Lake, and Defas Park, accommodations for the less hardy are available—cabins, stores, lodging, guides, horses, and boats. But to get the real "feel" of the place, one has to pack in, sleep under the stars, eat campfire meals, in short, take the region for what it is—a throwback to days when what is recreation today was hard living. AS is to be expected, the rivers, born of the melting snows in these peaks, are not insignificant streams: the Bear, Provo, and Weber, and the Duchesne that feeds the mighty Green, itself a tributary of the Colorado. These rivers, making their inevitable way to the sea, have carved channels as varied as the waters themselves, from the bustling, trout-filled Provo and Weber to the terrific Green, with its Red Canyon gorge and Hideout Canyon more Page 441 442 Ais _ fy Olive W. Burt RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 MIRROR LAKE IN THE HIGH UINTAHS than 1500 feet deep, channeled through the rock, and Ladore Canyon, in ages past the lush feeding ground of giant reptiles. The heavily timbered slopes teem with game, and the marshes are alive with beaver, muskrat, and mink. It was the abundance of game that made the region a bountiful hunting ground for the Utes who claimed the area, and for the Shoshones who strayed that way, as well as for Priddy Meeks and his son-in-law during the famine times in the tiny, new THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS Mormon settlements further west. But it was the endless reserve of rich, furbearing animals that brought the first white men to live in the region. A few miles west of the ColoradoUtah border, on highway 40, is a marker honoring the "first white men in Utah," Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Father Escalante has left a rather detailed record of his visit to this area, but it was an exploratory trip, resulting only in calling attention to the region. The first white people actually to live in the area were the trappers and traders—that romantic, freefooted band of Mountain Men and those who followed in their wake to outfit and supply them. These men, who made a business of romance, left their imprint on this rich region, and the first year-long dwelling for white men within the territory that is now Utah was built by a trader. ARLY in the 1800's, any gentleman with sartorial aspirations had to have a beaver hat or two. The Hudson's Bay Company, exercising a protected monopoly of the fur trade in the North, was waxing greedy with wealth, when the Americans along the Mississippi, particularly in commercial St. Louis, began to cast envious eyes upon the fur business. General William H. Ashley and his associates turned their backs on the Missouri River to follow the Platte westward, crossed the Rockies, and came into the virgin land to the West. Many of these men are remembered in Utah place names, but here can be mentioned 443 only those that came into the Uintah region. Ashley "invented" a new system of collecting the peltries from his trappers and distributing supplies—a system called the rendezvous. At a. Designated time each summer, all company and independent trappers and Indians with peltries to trade, would meet at a planned spot. To that place would come the heavily laden pack train of the company. There would be a week of high living, during which the peltries would be sold, and new supplies purchased. At the end of the week, the trappers would return to their streams and lakes, with nothing but their kit for the coming season, and the pack train would return to St. Louis, even more heavily laden (but with peltries) and with all the money it carried out to pay for the furs, returning with them as payment for goods. The first of all rendezvous was held on Henry's Fork of the Green River, on one side or the other of the Utah-Wyoming boundary line, in the year 1825. In following years the rendezvous was set in other lush fur regions, but the trappers from the high Uintahs always made their way to the meeting place, loaded with rich peltries. In 1831 Antoine Robidoux came into the Basin to establish Fort Uintah on the Duchesne river. With him, it is supposed, was one Denis Julien, who carved his name and the date in five different places on the walls of the canyons, to establish himself as the champion inscription writer of this period. 'This post was destroyed by Indians in 1844. In 1837, Robidoux evidently built Courtesy, Utah State Historical Society RENDEZVOUS OF FUR TRADERS AND TRAPPERS another post, near the place where the White and the Duchesne Rivers enter the Green from opposite sides. Charles Kelly, Utah historian, has found remnants of such a fort and inscriptions of 1837 of both Robidoux's and Julien's names. After the destruction of Fort Uintah, the area was left pretty much to the Utes and the trappers who were too "sot" in their way of life to change, though Captain John C. Fremont and his men made a couple of trips through the area, with varying reports as to what they found here. Once or twice companies of "Forty-Niners" or other transcontinental journeyers would venture down from the Oregon Trail and cross the Uintah Basin, but these excursions were generally not very happy ones and did little for the country. In 1851, soon after Utah was made a territory, with a good deal larger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 area than it covers today, the Uintah Basin was incorporated in Green River County (now in Wyoming). It remained so until 1862, when county boundaries were changed, and changed again and again, all into the present boundaries of Wasatch, Duchesne, and Uintah, with Daggett not established until 1917. Brigham Young, as Governor of the new Territory, was also Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and he created the Uintah Agency. It had a rather sketchy existence, and on August 25, 1861, Daniel H. Wells announced a list of names of men who had been called to go into the Uintah Basin and establish a settlement there. Brigham Young, explaining his action, said, "Now I want a settlement there and I wish to pick the company. The Gentiles will take possession of that valley if we do not, and I do not wish them to have it." ' THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS THE advance group set out early in September, but soon returned, reporting that the land was good for nothing "but as a hunting ground for Indians and to hold the world together." The plan for a Mormon settlement there was held in abeyance for a time, but just then Pres- 'dent Lincoln set apart all the fertile valley of the Basin as an Indian reservation, closed to white occupancy. President Young was quite upset to find his prediction of a few weeks earlier, fulfilled in this manner. The Indians in the Basin were generally friendly to the whites, particularly to the Mormons, but further east, in Colorado, there were a number of uprisings and massacres, and $0, in 1887, three companies of soldiers were ordered to leave Fort 445 Fred Steele in Wyoming and proceed down to the Uintah Basin, there to establish a fort for the putpose of keeping the Indians in hand. The soldiers came into the Basin from the north, and after a good deal of hardship due to their isolation from supplies, they finally built Fort Duchesne. Most of the buildings of the original fort have disappeared, but the community is still there, and is at present the headquarters of the Indian Agency. Meantime, a few Mormon families were seeking homesteads on the less choice ground available to them. In 1876, the Robert H. Snyder family moved into Ashley Valley and for ten months Mrs. Snyder was the only white woman in the valley. In 1877, John Fairchild took his famFrom a painting by Ramsey PAINTER'S CONCEPTION OF PREHISTORIC ANIMALS OF THE UINTAH BASIN 446 ily in. Children began to be born there, and to die—and the Ashley Valley was a part—though an isolated one—of the general development of the Territory. In the winter of 1877-78 the first school was opened, and in 1879 new settlers poured in. The following winter was one of those cruel tests that seem to have followed the Latter-day Saint settlers into every new community, as if trying out their mettle before giving them peace to go ahead. This winter the only contact the little settlement had with the outside world was through mail carried on snowshoes by Peter Dillman. Peter Dillman is a name that appears everywhere in the history of the Basin—postmaster, school teacher, interpreter, guide, friend, neighbor. Keeping Dillman company in his activities were the Hatches, George Albert Glines, the Snyders, and others whose names still ring through the Basin. In 1878, Alma James Johnston built a cabin for his wife—not in the valley as everyone else had done, but up on the "bench" northwest of the settlement of Ashley. 'This was the first house on the present site of Vernal. In the seventy years since then, this community, the county seat of Uintah County, has grown slowly but steadily, with farming and livestock—and lately the oil fields to the south—to aid its prosperity. Westward in the Basin other settlements—Roosevelt, Duchesne, and Myton, grew up along the highway that crossed the Basin from east to west. There is no railroad into the area, even yet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 ODAY, the Uintah Basin claims the proud title of "Bread Basket of the State." It also boasts the only important veins of gilsonite in the