comed her as a visiting teacher. In February 1939, she was called to be president of Plain City Ward Relief Society, being released in September of that year to become president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. January 18, 1942, at the division of the stake, she was chosen to preside in the new Farr West Stake and has continued in that calling until the present time. In this position, she has been a member of the executive council for the Latter-day Saint girls' program, which included for some time the NELLIE WARD NEAL preparation of the mothers and daughters meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences. She was Relief Society representative on the first Ogden Deseret Industries Committee, and vice chairman and later chairman of the Relief Society presidents department of the Northern Utah Region in welfare work. She performed faithfully and competently all the duties devolving upon her. A patriarchal blessing, given by her grandfather, James Ward, which promised that the spirit that led her Page 439 440 forefathers from the land of their nativity would be her constant companion in her labors, has had a powerful influence in her life. She was born in North Ogden, Weber County, Utah, a daughter of Lorenzo and Mary E. Barker Ward. She and Roosevelt Neal were married June 6, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple, and established their home in Plain City. He and their nineteen-year-old twin children, Donald and Dorothy, have given wholehearted assistance to Sister Neal in all her Church work. She has always been interested in educational pursuits. She graduated from Weber Academy and Weber Normal College and has taken extension courses from Utah State Agricultural College, the University of Utah, and Brigham Young University. She taught school in Ogden and Weber County. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Her bits of verse have been sent to many friends for Christmas, birthdays, in times of discouragement and sorrow, or as a kindly thought of remembrance for some service rendered. They have also added beauty and inspiration to many programs. Thoughtfulness, friendliness, a keen sense of humor, sincerity, humility, devotion to duty, love of God and all his creations, and a fervent testimony of the gospel are virtues which qualify her for the position of responsibility to which she has been called. Hosts of friends are saying, "Coneratulations, Nellie. We love you. Thanks for your help along the way. You have inspired us with your faith and diligence. May our Heavenly Father grant you his choicest blessings in your new appointment." Little Sure Feet Iris W. Schow Through the long' days, over hillock and flat, Little feet measured the length of the Platte; "Stepped off" the rising slopes, through the coarse grass; Bruised by the jutting rocks, gained the South Pass; Over the steepest ways, pressed right along; Youth put wings to their tread; trust kept them strong. Now, tough steel tools, guided by a trained hand, Measure the breadth of our civilized land; But the survey which was real and complete Was made, step by step, with little sure feet. Biobege C. Cameron Johns Thoughts are worlds About to start, But words stay chiseled On the heart. Mood of Music Ruth Harwood Were I to sing to you today The music of my mood, The essence of my song would be A psalm of gratitude. The Land of the High Uintahs Olive W. Burt HE Uintah Basin in Utah, with its surrounding country, is a magnificent, unspoiled area, parts of which remain almost as they were when the Mormon pioneers came into the Great Basin. Or you can go back further, carried by the remnants of old forts, inscriptions scrawled upon sheer canyon walls, names of mountains and rivers, to the wild, free days of the Mountain Men, or on back to the days of ancient Indian tribes whose mark is faint but unmistakable—or even go back to the day of the dinosaur. Truly, the flavor of age is nowhere else so pervasive and compelling as it is in the northeastern part of the State. The Uintah Basin is bounded on the north by the Uintah Mountains, one of the few important east-west mountain ranges in the country. It '5 a beautiful range, with the highest peaks in the State rising majestically into the unsullied sky. They look peaceful, as if nothing could disturb them, but they have known disaster. They have felt the great heaving upthrust that tilted them high above their old resting place; they have felt the clawing fingers of glaciers, scraping ugly gashes across their face and breast. But they have waited quietly, until the scars were healed with pine and spruce, with flower-enameled grass, and shrubs sweet with wild fruit. Above the 125-mile-long chain of lesser slopes, rises King's Peak, highest point in the State; with Wilson, Hayden, Marsh, and Leidy peaks and Mount Lovenia, all rising more than 12,000 feet. Below their snowy summits are hundreds of jewel-like, glacial lakes, fed by sparkling mountain streams, and teeming with trout and mackerel: Mirror, Grandaddy, Moon, Island, Pyramid, Green, to name only a few of the best known. While an automobile road has been built into this alpine region as far as Mirror Lake, the area iS really unspoiled and will remain SO, as it has been set aside by the Federal Government as a permanent "primitive area." In the most frequented spots, such as Mirror Lake, the gateway to the Grandaddy tegion, Moon Lake, and Defas Park, accommodations for the less hardy are available—cabins, stores, lodging, guides, horses, and boats. But to get the real "feel" of the place, one has to pack in, sleep under the stars, eat campfire meals, in short, take the region for what it is—a throwback to days when what is recreation today was hard living. AS is to be expected, the rivers, born of the melting snows in these peaks, are not insignificant streams: the Bear, Provo, and Weber, and the Duchesne that feeds the mighty Green, itself a tributary of the Colorado. These rivers, making their inevitable way to the sea, have carved channels as varied as the waters themselves, from the bustling, trout-filled Provo and Weber to the terrific Green, with its Red Canyon gorge and Hideout Canyon more Page 441 442 Ais _ fy Olive W. Burt RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 MIRROR LAKE IN THE HIGH UINTAHS than 1500 feet deep, channeled through the rock, and Ladore Canyon, in ages past the lush feeding ground of giant reptiles. The heavily timbered slopes teem with game, and the marshes are alive with beaver, muskrat, and mink. It was the abundance of game that made the region a bountiful hunting ground for the Utes who claimed the area, and for the Shoshones who strayed that way, as well as for Priddy Meeks and his son-in-law during the famine times in the tiny, new THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS Mormon settlements further west. But it was the endless reserve of rich, furbearing animals that brought the first white men to live in the region. A few miles west of the ColoradoUtah border, on highway 40, is a marker honoring the "first white men in Utah," Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Father Escalante has left a rather detailed record of his visit to this area, but it was an exploratory trip, resulting only in calling attention to the region. The first white people actually to live in the area were the trappers and traders—that romantic, freefooted band of Mountain Men and those who followed in their wake to outfit and supply them. These men, who made a business of romance, left their imprint on this rich region, and the first year-long dwelling for white men within the territory that is now Utah was built by a trader. ARLY in the 1800's, any gentleman with sartorial aspirations had to have a beaver hat or two. The Hudson's Bay Company, exercising a protected monopoly of the fur trade in the North, was waxing greedy with wealth, when the Americans along the Mississippi, particularly in commercial St. Louis, began to cast envious eyes upon the fur business. General William H. Ashley and his associates turned their backs on the Missouri River to follow the Platte westward, crossed the Rockies, and came into the virgin land to the West. Many of these men are remembered in Utah place names, but here can be mentioned 443 only those that came into the Uintah region. Ashley "invented" a new system of collecting the peltries from his trappers and distributing supplies—a system called the rendezvous. At a. Designated time each summer, all company and independent trappers and Indians with peltries to trade, would meet at a planned spot. To that place would come the heavily laden pack train of the company. There would be a week of high living, during which the peltries would be sold, and new supplies purchased. At the end of the week, the trappers would return to their streams and lakes, with nothing but their kit for the coming season, and the pack train would return to St. Louis, even more heavily laden (but with peltries) and with all the money it carried out to pay for the furs, returning with them as payment for goods. The first of all rendezvous was held on Henry's Fork of the Green River, on one side or the other of the Utah-Wyoming boundary line, in the year 1825. In following years the rendezvous was set in other lush fur regions, but the trappers from the high Uintahs always made their way to the meeting place, loaded with rich peltries. In 1831 Antoine Robidoux came into the Basin to establish Fort Uintah on the Duchesne river. With him, it is supposed, was one Denis Julien, who carved his name and the date in five different places on the walls of the canyons, to establish himself as the champion inscription writer of this period. 'This post was destroyed by Indians in 1844. In 1837, Robidoux evidently built Courtesy, Utah State Historical Society RENDEZVOUS OF FUR TRADERS AND TRAPPERS another post, near the place where the White and the Duchesne Rivers enter the Green from opposite sides. Charles Kelly, Utah historian, has found remnants of such a fort and inscriptions of 1837 of both Robidoux's and Julien's names. After the destruction of Fort Uintah, the area was left pretty much to the Utes and the trappers who were too "sot" in their way of life to change, though Captain John C. Fremont and his men made a couple of trips through the area, with varying reports as to what they found here. Once or twice companies of "Forty-Niners" or other transcontinental journeyers would venture down from the Oregon Trail and cross the Uintah Basin, but these excursions were generally not very happy ones and did little for the country. In 1851, soon after Utah was made a territory, with a good deal larger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 area than it covers today, the Uintah Basin was incorporated in Green River County (now in Wyoming). It remained so until 1862, when county boundaries were changed, and changed again and again, all into the present boundaries of Wasatch, Duchesne, and Uintah, with Daggett not established until 1917. Brigham Young, as Governor of the new Territory, was also Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and he created the Uintah Agency. It had a rather sketchy existence, and on August 25, 1861, Daniel H. Wells announced a list of names of men who had been called to go into the Uintah Basin and establish a settlement there. Brigham Young, explaining his action, said, "Now I want a settlement there and I wish to pick the company. The Gentiles will take possession of that valley if we do not, and I do not wish them to have it." ' THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS THE advance group set out early in September, but soon returned, reporting that the land was good for nothing "but as a hunting ground for Indians and to hold the world together." The plan for a Mormon settlement there was held in abeyance for a time, but just then Pres- 'dent Lincoln set apart all the fertile valley of the Basin as an Indian reservation, closed to white occupancy. President Young was quite upset to find his prediction of a few weeks earlier, fulfilled in this manner. The Indians in the Basin were generally friendly to the whites, particularly to the Mormons, but further east, in Colorado, there were a number of uprisings and massacres, and $0, in 1887, three companies of soldiers were ordered to leave Fort 445 Fred Steele in Wyoming and proceed down to the Uintah Basin, there to establish a fort for the putpose of keeping the Indians in hand. The soldiers came into the Basin from the north, and after a good deal of hardship due to their isolation from supplies, they finally built Fort Duchesne. Most of the buildings of the original fort have disappeared, but the community is still there, and is at present the headquarters of the Indian Agency. Meantime, a few Mormon families were seeking homesteads on the less choice ground available to them. In 1876, the Robert H. Snyder family moved into Ashley Valley and for ten months Mrs. Snyder was the only white woman in the valley. In 1877, John Fairchild took his famFrom a painting by Ramsey PAINTER'S CONCEPTION OF PREHISTORIC ANIMALS OF THE UINTAH BASIN 446 ily in. Children began to be born there, and to die—and the Ashley Valley was a part—though an isolated one—of the general development of the Territory. In the winter of 1877-78 the first school was opened, and in 1879 new settlers poured in. The following winter was one of those cruel tests that seem to have followed the Latter-day Saint settlers into every new community, as if trying out their mettle before giving them peace to go ahead. This winter the only contact the little settlement had with the outside world was through mail carried on snowshoes by Peter Dillman. Peter Dillman is a name that appears everywhere in the history of the Basin—postmaster, school teacher, interpreter, guide, friend, neighbor. Keeping Dillman company in his activities were the Hatches, George Albert Glines, the Snyders, and others whose names still ring through the Basin. In 1878, Alma James Johnston built a cabin for his wife—not in the valley as everyone else had done, but up on the "bench" northwest of the settlement of Ashley. 'This was the first house on the present site of Vernal. In the seventy years since then, this community, the county seat of Uintah County, has grown slowly but steadily, with farming and livestock—and lately the oil fields to the south—to aid its prosperity. Westward in the Basin other settlements—Roosevelt, Duchesne, and Myton, grew up along the highway that crossed the Basin from east to west. There is no railroad into the area, even yet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 ODAY, the Uintah Basin claims the proud title of "Bread Basket of the State." It also boasts the only important veins of gilsonite in the United States. No longer inarticulate and isolated, it makes its bid for a place in the sun through co-operation and willing effort. The white citizens and their Indian brothers have joined hands in a sort of mutual admiration society, which has its climax each year in the Uintah Basin Industrial Convention. At _ this three-day gathering, both races display their crops and stock, their handiwork and crafts, their skill on foot and on horseback, their traditions and culture. All this has been written, and yet not a word has been said about the national monument up in the very northeast corner of the Basin—an area so unique that it draws the scholarly and the curious from all parts of the country. This is the Dinosaur Monument — the graveyard of the giant reptiles, where are found hundreds of skeletons of the prehistoric monsters that once roamed this high land. It is only a seven-mile trip from Jensen, on U. S. Highway 40, to this awe-inspiring quarry, where, in indisputable stone, the past becomes believable and real. A trip into this magnificent area of lofty peaks and golden desert; of quiet farms and mountains split into chasms; of thrifty white men and ambitious Indians—a land of contradictions and contrasts—will reward you with the "feel" of the past and the pulse of the present. The Jumpher Family Deone R. Sutherland Vi Nama and Papa T all started to happen when my sister Randy, whom my brother Richard calls "Rancid," heard about Papa's new job first, and the intended move. We were out in the back yard throwing the trash that wouldn't go into our cans over into the cans in Anderson's back yard, since they weren't home. It's because we have so many children that we are always overflowing, Mama says. "Gee, Rancid," said Richard, handling a big clinker like a handy club, should he need one, "gee, Rancid," repeated Richard, waving his clinker, "what did Mama say?" "She said, 'Under no condition, under no condition, could we all movel'" Randy lifted her hand. "Mama said, 'It's in the middle of winter, too. And _ the children, Hugh. What about the children?' " "Just tell it your way, not like Mama," instructed Martha Jane. "Doesn't she put on?" asked Richard. "Rancid Barnharp!" "Bernhardt," I corrected. "Anyway, she smells," said Richard. Randy went into the house. We went on dumping stuff and thinking about what was going to happen to all of us. "I don't want to move," said Martha Jane, and her glasses slid off the end of her nose. I picked them up, wiped off the snow, and straightened them. Richard handed me a piece of string, and we tied them around her ears. We didn't say anything. When it got too cold to stand still any longer, we walked around the house, making a trail in the snow, stood under the cherry tree in the back yard, kicked at the stunted pine, and then picked up Martin and went in. Mama called Grandma on the phone and told her, but we weren't supposed to know yet. Then Grandma came to see Mama. "You can't possibly give up your lovely home," declared Grandma. "What are you thinking of to make a move with all these children? Besides, what would I do without my only baby in the same city?" Grandma blew her nose on one of the long white lace handkerchiefs she always carries. "You were never very strong, Kate. Now, you take a stand. Hugh's always had his way. Be firm. Stay here without him, if necessary. Oh, he's important enough to make other arrangements if he wants to. Oh, my poor, beautiful child," and she blew her nose again. Randy told us all about what Grandma said and, when Grandma went, she patted Mama on the shoulder, chucked Martin under the chin, but she never ever took him to hold, and drove away in her own car, "Mama's Mama is very different from Mama, most of the time," said Richard. We didn't hear any more about Page 447 448 Papa's transfer unt] the next night. "You had better mention it to them, Kate," said Papa, following Mama into the kitchen. "T can't; you'll have to be the one to tell them," said Mama. "You're the one that's breaking up our home. You're the one that's going away." "It's not as bad as that," said Papa. "I want you all to come with me. I need the experience in my work. We'll be back in—oh, no more than a year or two." "All of us move? Leave our home after I've worked so hard on it. Leave my mother—my parents? I've lived in this town all my life," wailed Mama. "But you're married to me," said Papa. "We make the home together—" Mama and Papa looked at each other, They had come back into the dining room, They both looked tired and sad. Mama had red spots high on her thin-boned cheeks, and her eyes looked stubborn. "Well," Papa sighed, "you'd better tell them then." We tried to pretend it was something we hadn't heard about before. "Does Papa want to sell the house?" asked Randy. "Ask him," said Mama. "No, we could rent it for a year Or so, and then without a doubt we'd be back, Just as soon as ['ve had the practical experience." "We're not going," Mama decided. "The children and I are Staying here. Can you imagine a family our size moving? Mother was stunned when | suggested it. You can go alone, since you insist. We'll wait for you here." Papa looked so lonely we children RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 would have said we would go, but then that wouldn't have been loyal to Mama, who looked very lonely also. We didn't say anything. We tried not to think that Papa wouldn't even be here for his birthday. We always had a birthday party for each of us, and Papa's was the most fun, Mama »" confided "She should touch them to her lips, and tty to hold back the sobs and then not be able to. They do that in all the books," "What does Mama do?" I asked. The way she looks when she washes c'ean enough. I expect she and Papa are too old to be romantic." PAPA left in the afteoon. We see him off. "I should have said goodbye to the children at home," said Papa holding Martin away from him. We stood looking at him and Mama. "Well, Kate," he said. The train made a noise and the porters hurried the people. "Well, Kate," repeated Papa. "Don't go," begged Martha Jane. "Wipe your nose," Papa said to "You're stubborn," said Mama, biting her lip. "Oh, Kate," said Papa, and the THE JUMPHER FAMILY train started up and Papa jumped on the step. "We'll mail you your birthday presents," called Martha Jane, who is very practical. That only made Papa lock more lonely, hanging on the step, and then the train was gone, and Mama was crying into Martin's bib we'd forgotten to take off him, while Martin picked up the hairpins very carefully out of Mama's hair. When we got home the house seemed very empty. Martha Jane dropped her glasses out of one of our second story windows, and Randy came down with the hives. We still had two weeks before Papa's birthday, but now we didn't want to buy anything, we didn't want to have to mail our presents to him. "Of course we'll mail him his presents and have a special dinner," said Mother. "We'll celebrate your father's birthday even if he is away on business." Richard went with Mama to help her pick out our presents, and Randy and I and Martha Jane stayed home and waited. Randy got out Papa's letters and read them. They sounded cheerful in a way. "That's just to cover up," said Randy. She lay on Mama's bed eating the chocolate chips that Mama was going to make chocolate chip cookies with. "Are they good for your hives?" I asked. "I miss him, too." "Tf he were here," said Randy, "I would even let him see me in the music festival at school, if I got over my hives in time. I'm a dancer, you know." "Yes," I agreed. ("She isn't really," Richard had told me. "She just 449 waves her arms and sort of wiggles, like this. She looks a mess.") "Weren't you going to let Papa go?" "Oh, no," said Randy. "It's tertible to let your parents go just to be proud of you. Lesley and I think it's common. But I would even let him go if he were here." Randy lay on her stomach. "I don't even want to read any more." I wiped Mama's cold cream off Martin's face and picked up her powder box. It had been a long time since we had heard Martha Jane. I went to find her. E wrapped Papa's presents on Friday night. Martin tried to eat the blue and silver wrapping string, but Mama stopped him. Then he crumpled the tissue paper in his hands and looked very surprised. We gave him a ruined piece to play with. "If Papa were here," said Richard, "we could have a good party." "Who'll get to choose the menu for his birthday dinner now he isn't here?" asked Randy. "T will," said Mama. She pasted the package for Papa and picked up Martin, who was fussing. He dropped the silver string across her dark hair. "There," she said. "Now won't Daddy like a package this size!" "T guess so," said Richard. "How far away is Papa?" asked Martha Jane. "Not very far, dear." "He says he has a nice apartment," Randy reminded us, "that is, if we wanted to come on for awhile." 450 "You couldn't go anyway, with your hives," said Richard. "They're not catching," said Randy. "It would be awful not to be really where he is for his birthday, wouldn't it?" "Are we going to Papa?" asked Martha Jane. "Are we?" asked Richard. "Are we?" I asked. "We are," said Mama. "Oh, yes, we are," and she began to cry a little and Martin dropped another piece of silver string across her hair. "We'll go by train," said Mama. "We'll get there by his birthday." "W'ell surprise him," said Richard. "Well, not exactly," said Mama. "We'll wire. We want some place to stay." "What about this asked. "Tl have your grandfather help me rent it. Oh, my!' Mama smiled at us. "You'll be good on the train, won't you? All of you will help?" "Oh, yes," we said. Grandma and Grandpa came down to the train to see us off. "Well, Kate, you've done some foolish things, but I guess this is the most foolish," said Grandma. "Never mind," said Grandpa. "All those children," said Grandma. "I told you not to marry Hugh. I told you to have a small family. I told you not to let Hugh tear you away. Remember, I warned you against chasing after him. No pride—" "Never mind," said Grandpa, lifting Martha Jane up the step. "I warned you, Kate," said Grandma. Mama jumped up the step house?" I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 and took Martin from Grandpa. She kissed Grandma. "['m sorry to be leaving you," she said. "I'm sorry to be going away for awhile," but her face looked all smiley. And we waved. Only a day and a night and a morning and we would be with Papa. The train began to move. We went in and sat in our seats. Randy had Mama's old Japanese fan which she held open across her face with just her eyes peering out. She was sensitive about having the hives. Martha Jane carried her dolls. Richard and I put Martin between us. We were really going somewhere. We were travelers. We felt very cosmopolitan. Randy said something behind her fan. We leaned forward, but her voice came muffled and she was being dignified. It didn't matter. We'd soon be with Papa and our family would all be together again. And for Papa's birthday! HE people on the t