rain seemed very nice. One lady leaned forward and tickled Martin. "Ooooo is sooo cute," she said. After awhile she lifted him up over the back of the seat. "Oooo sit with me," she said. Martin reached up and pulled her hat down across-her face. "Get the baby," said Mama to Richard. But just then Martin lost all the popcorn Richard and I had fed him in the station to keep him good. He lost it on the lady. "Oh!"' said the lady. "Oh, dear," said Mama, and she went and got Martin. The lady went down the aisle to the rest room. When she came back, she kept looking very carefully out of the window. THE JUMPHER FAMILY We went in to lunch. Randy sat across from me. Everybody watched her eat while holding the fan. It got to be quite fascinating. Not once did she lower it. "What shall we have for dessert?" asked Mama. "Ischree—" said Randy. "What?" "She said ice cream," said Richard, staring at Randy. He had grown quite respectful toward Randy and her fan. She did look different with it. "Oh, look," cried Martha Jane. "It's snowing!" Everybody in the car looked out of the windows. It had begun to snow. We could no longer see the fields we were passing, and the little towns blurred in the snowstorm as we went through them. "It won't be long," said Mama. "Now, we'll go back, and I'll tell you lots of stories. And then it will be night, and tomorrow we'll see your father." "But first we get to sleep in a box," said Martha Jane, sliding down off her chair. We went back to our car. Martha Jane hopped on one foot all the way. Richard bet me that she'd never make it. Randy held her fan and walked behind us. I knew she was pretending she didn't know us. She did that lots of times when we were downtown. "Walk up with us," Papa or Mama would say, but Randy would lag and look away and pretend she didn't belong to all of us. "It's her age," Mama would whisper to Papa. Randy would frown and try to pull her features so that she didn't resemble us. That would make peo-?? 451 ple stare at her also. Like now with the fan on the train. We went back to our seats. "Now maybe Martin will quit chewing the upholstery," Richard said. "Now that he has eaten." Mama held him on her lap, and he poked at her eyes and then tried to chew her buttons. She held him and let him see the snow through the window. "Snow," said Mama. "Snooooo!"' said Martin. "He can talk," said Mama. "Did you hear, he can talk?" "Snoooo!" repeated Martin; then he laughed. "We'll tell Papa," said Randy. "Won't Papa be pleased?" said Richard. "Snoooo!"" said Martin. And he kept saying it all afternoon and that evening. And when he woke up the next morning he said it. "T like sleeping in a box," said Martha Jane. "I want to always—" "It's too exciting now to read," said Randy. "We'll soon be there." "Say snow, Martin," said Mama. "Snoooo!"' said Martin. E got ready to get off the train. This was a big city we were coming to. The buildings stretched tall and white and dark. Martha Jane stood up and put her hand on Mama's knee. I would have, too, but I was almost too old. Then we had to get ready awfully fast, for there we were and there was Papa coming, running down the platform under the long, low roofs to meet us. He grabbed Mama and then us, and we stood on the platform and it was very cold, but that didn't matter. (Continued on page 462) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1889 "For tHE Ricuts OF THE WoMEN oF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL Nations" One fault finding person in a family can make a home so miserable, that its members are glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek that comfort which is denied them by their NOTICE: Dr. Hughes' Training School for Nurses will open its Second Term October ls, 1889, at her residence on First West Street. The Proposed summer term will be postponed on account of the heat. Students desiring to enter should apply as early as possible as the usual number of the class is now nearly complete. MEMORY OF THE SEA In the midnight hour, a memory Swept like music o'er my soul As I stood in silent reverie, Where the surging billows roll;— Minor music, sad and sorrowing, Full of trembling, full of tears, Ever like the ocean's murmuring, Bringing back the tide of years, Telling of the long forgotten In the cycles of the past, Of the nations crushed and broken In the world's great holocaust. —E. B. W. PLEASANT GROVE: Special meeting at the meeting house May 20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. President John:— "There are many subjects we could speak upon. We live in an important time, and it requires us to be prayerful and diligent TIME OF CHANGES: Many practical lessons of faith and repentance have been taught this people in their journeyings, wanderings, and times of severe trial, and they assuredly know that there lo \ c (x < aw VK. Y Py a Bd Fae: * No q a. ZA a ee OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, wellknown Utah writer, and frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has received word from Bobbs-Merrill Company, her publishers, that her interesting and instructive book for children, Luther Burbank, Boy Wizard, has been translated into Japanese and German and is being distributed in these countries. 'The same company is bringing out her book Prince of the Ranchi, the Story of a Collie, in August. The locale is the Thousand Peaks ranch of Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells (President of the Primary Association) on the upper Weber River, Utah. N spite of being blind since infancy, Almeda Adams, eightythree years old, of Cleveland, Ohio, has conducted choirs, taught music, written operettas, books, and magazine articles, and has kept house for herself, living alone. In countless ways she has helped the underprivileged. She says that to help others, "No one needs eyesight, just insight." OVIET women are still forbidden to leave Russia to live in other countries with their foreign husbands, the excuse being that they would be "exploited as kitchen slaves." Who is supposed to do the Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon housework in a communistic society? Jew se women are doing a splendid work of regeneration among their young girls in foreign countries, by establishing homes where various types of training are afforded and subsequent employment is found for them. The homes provide a democratic atmosphere and an interesting social life. The entrants are selected by committees of women doctors, psychiatrists, business women, and social workers. Many of the girls were in wartime concentration