camps. BLIZABETH CANNON PORTER McCRIMMON, formerly of Salt Lake City, now of Los Angeles, was honored guest at a luncheon of the Circulo Hispano-Americano in San Francisco, during Pan-American Week. Mrs. McCrnmmon is the author of Cortez the Conqueror, and after the luncheon, her book was reviewed by a well-known critic, and highly praised by the president of the club. N Denning, Arkansas, a slate of all women defeated an all-male ticket at the municipal election in April. For seven years this small town has elected all women officials. Page 453 C— EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 36 JULY 1949 She lew Frontier ORE than a hundred years have passed since the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints first entered the wide and lonely valley between the Wasatch Mountains and the Salt Sea. They were pioneers to a land of promise and theirs was the task of subduing the arid Jand and of building edifices of faith and courage and erecting and sustaining the more lofty temples of the spirit. Our forefathers on that long journey to Zion were accustomed to sorrow and disappointment. Their campfire thoughts and their hopes and dreams along the trail were a weaving of grief for those whom they had left behind and a surge of hopeful beckoning into the unknown land. Their old homes had disappeared forever on the eastern horizon and they looked toward the West as pilgrims seeking "the ramparts of the rocks" for their protection. President Brigham Young, expressed his thoughts of the valleys in prophetic words: God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and to the south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the saints will gather in from the nations of the earth. This will become the great highway of the nations. Much of the conquest of the land has been completed, in the home Page 454 valleys and even in the far-off places. There are few unknown regions to beckon the pioneers of today. Our generation faces a new fromier that requires an even more elusive accomplishment. To us and to our children have been given the task and the duty of retaining in its strength and purity the gospel heritage which our forefathers cherished through tribulation. And it is our further responsibility to use our time and our energy, the allotted span of our lives, to help in the great work of directing the minds of men and women towards the rich spiritual life which is gained through brotherhood, through being keepers of not only our own eternal destiny, but through being also of service in the spreading of the message of Jesus, which must be exemplified at home and carried to the far frontiers. It is, perhaps, an easy and an accurate accomplishment to measure — that yield of grain which has been secured from the desert, but who is there among us capable of measuring the harvest that may come from a spiritual planting? These seeds develop less certainly and may require a greater length of time for their maturing. And we who seek a new frontier must go forward with great courage and with the inspired devotion of the true pioneer who sees not only the near goal, but the long road that reaches beyond this world. V. P. C. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT (Photograph taken on a recent birthday) Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant Age Ninety-Three, July 7th gracious and lovely woman, rich in memories, and still interested in the affairs of her family, her community, and her Church, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, widow of President Heber J. Grant, finds much pleasure and contentment in the sunset time of her life. Comfortable and happy in her pleasant home high above City Creek Canyon and Memory Grove, Salt Lake City, Sister Grant often sits at her window looking out upon the valley and the gleaming lake, thinking, perhaps, of the part she and her family have played in the development and growth of the city and Church. Sister Augusta, as she is lovingly called, is a precious link to the past, for she was so much a part of her husband's life that she still seems to be inseparably joined to him in the affections of Church people. She has many friends and a large family who make her days bright with remembrances, telephone calls, and visits. Relief Society women throughout the Church wish her a happy birthday and many days of contentment among the people she loves. Page 455 , Sable Settings and Slower Arrangements Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the fourth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] Sable Settings for the Canyon E love to go into our canW yons—not only because they are so beautiful, but because of the complete change from our ordinary surroundings which the scenery gives. Just as your guests enjoy wearing casual clothes for your canyon party, so they will welcome original ideas in your table settings to enhance the satisfying food which robust canyon appetites call for. So this month I want to talk about table settings suitable for out-of-door picnics, or to be used in canyon and country homes. It is in our family log cabin at Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, that most of my activities have centered, so I am asking you to pardon me if I become a bit personal. | One affair that I shall never forget, because of the complications preceding the dinner, took place at the M. I. A. Home at Brighton. I had planned a pioneer theme since the date was near July Twenty-fourth. When I arrived to set the long table in the dining room, I found, to my consternation, that a meeting of the general boards of the Y. W. And Y. M. M. IA. Was in_ progress there and would continue for some time. What to do? It was suggested Page 456 that there were some window shutters stacked away for the winter. Could we improvise a table by placing these shutters on wooden sawhorses? We did! I tried to use wrapping paper in place of a cloth, but the shutters were so wide that, even by using two strips of paper the length of the table, there was a gap of about seven inches in the center. Fortunately, I had planned to decorate with covered wagons, miniature bonfires, and pioneer dolls. I quickly ran outside, shoveled up some loamy soil, generously sprinkled with dry pine needles, and made a realistic road down the center of the table. The covered wagons and the bonfires looked quite at home. These latter were made by placing dry twigs in the form of a tepee with bits of orange and yellow cellophane tucked under the twigs to simulate fire. A stick of burning incense placed in the top of the twigs made a spiral of smoke. Place cards were bits of sagebrush tied with calico bows. An idea which I have used over and over, varying the central theme according to my mood, is to make an out-of-door scene for the center of the dinner table in the cabin at Brighton. The base is nothing more nor less than a large square of gal- TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS vanized iron salvaged from an ancient washing machine. (The machine, long since useless for its original purpose, makes an excellent coal bin.) It has been such fun when on a tmp, to pick up some quaint little object for our canyon table setting. From Yellowstone Park came several little incense burners in the form of log cabins and a tiny bear to stand under a miniature pine tree. Ever so small Indian baskets and Pieces of pottery were found in Mex. Ico. There are even some little rubber donkeys, with natives astride, from faraway Haiti. Some of my most prized possessions have come from the "five and ten." Here | found metal sets of cowboys and Indians and some very realistic bits of rustic fence to arrange as I choose. From Bethel, Maine, the home of my maternal pioneer ancestors, came some little birch canoes to float on our make-believe lake. HE lake is made of a Piece of broken mirror with plaster of Paris, painted tan, encircling it. The entire piece of metal that we use on the table is covered with green moss which we gather a short time before the guests arrive so that it will keep 457 fresh and moist. There are always a few tiny wild flowers available, such as buttercups and forget-me-nots, with which to dot the moss. A few colorful rocks, bits of bark, and treelike twigs complete the setting for whatever figures we decide to use. Wild flowers always make a lovely canyon centerpiece. I especially love a patriotic combination of red Indian paintbrush, white columbines, and bluebells, and they come as if ordered just right for the month of July. But sometimes it happens to be just between seasons. This will give your Imagination a chance for free play. The oddest idea I ever used was one summer when it rained overly much, with the result that flowers were scarce. There were, however, quantities of toadstools and mushrooms, with their umbrella-shaped caps delicately tinted in mauves, creams, and rose colors. These, with moss and rocks, made an unusual and really beautiful table. I remember particularly the huge fungus which measured a good ten inches across and held lighted tapers. Next month I shal] talk about "glamour weeds." + Sinomorhs Christie Lund Coles Swiftly I lift my eyes To catch their loveliness, Like sprays of sequins On the night's blue dress, Like golden trumpets, Music, visible; Like shattered rainbows, Jeweled, beautiful, I watch them and my heart Lifts upward now to ache, Hearing the sputtering sound As new ones rise and break, And fall upon the night In such brief finery That ancient stars are dimmed Before their sorcery, Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and _ transportation. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna decides that she must have a better home for her children. A salesman, Kent Taylor, shows her a house on a hill, which Joanna cannot afford to buy. Unexpectedly, however, she is offered $5,000 for her recipe for Boston-baked beans. ENT Taylor came when the man had gone. He sat on the edge of the kitchen table and filched cookies from the growing pile before him. "It's incredible, Joanna." But he seemed not too much surprised. Joanna, taking more cookies from the oven, straightened and stared at him. "Kent Taylor! You had something to do with this." The afternoon sun _ poured through the window and burned on his bright hair. "Strangest thing. I'm to do an article for the Post about the William Davidson Company." Joanna came to the table and leaned on it. "You told them about me about my Boston-baked?" His hazel eyes mocked her. "Come to think of it, believe I did. Angry?" "Oh, Kent, how could I be?. Page 458 I'm I'm always so amazed when it happens so naturally." "What are you talking about?" "Miracles." Kent caught her wrist. His face was very close to her own. Joanna could see the gold flecks in his eyes, the light freckles under his tan, the lines that quickened when he was amused. 'There was a sudden thudding in her breast. "Now we can celebrate. You're going to get your house and your shop. Be young, Joanna. Be young and frivolous. Don't be bowed down with responsibilities all the time. Let's go rake a few stars down from the sky." "Td like that," Joanna said. "I'd like that very much." He swung to his feet. "Wonderful! I'll call for you at eight tomorrow night. We'll have dinner. We'll dance. Can you dance, Joanna?" "T've forgotten how." "Good! Ill teach you." Abigail came over when he had gone. "I saw his car drive away and I came right over. Oh, Joanna, I'm still walking on stars from that Mr. Parkinson. Now finish telling me." Joanna said dreamily, "I have a date, Abigail... A date with Kent." Abigail flushed with pleasure. "About time, I says. When is it?" "Tomorrow." "Pll go down town with you in the morning... Just to see you don't buy another practical dress." JOANNA The dress was a soft green wool; the coat was gray, the hat a dashing thing of gray to match the coat. It had a green feather slashing through it. Joanna could hardly bear to leave the dressing room in the shop. "T never dreamed I could look like other women." "What other women wouldn't give... To look like you do this minute. Now for a manicure and a hair fixin',. Oh, we'll give that young man a surprise, we will," Abigail promised. T was fifteen minutes to six when Joanna, breathless and taut with excitement, reached home. Her children fell back from her, awe in their eyes. "Gee, Mother, you look wonderful." David's eyes shone. "Like a movie star!" Penny said. Michael pushed a grimy paper in her hand. "This is our program for tonight. Gee, I'll bet none of the other fellows will have a mother as good-looking as mine." Something lurched sickeningly within her. Memory. This couldn't be the night! Dimly, for days, she had been aware of David's excited talk about the P. T. A. Program. She looked down at the paper in her hand. "Solo... Michael Niels." She looked down at his bright, expectant face. "You're... Going to sing... Alone?" she asked. "Sure, Mother. That's the surprise. I told you I was going to bring you a surprise. They chose me out of the whole school." "Darling," Joanna said, and hugged him hard. The other children were jumping up and down in their excitement. Sally pushed the yellow curls out 459 of her eyes. "Take us, Mother. We want to hear Michael. We're going to sit in the front row." She called Kent Taylor, caught him as he was leaving. She had never heard his voice on the phone before. She liked it. It was quick and deep. "Joanna? Anything wrong?" She told him, and heard his click of impatience at the other end of the line. "But, Joanna, I'm going away tomorrow. Denver and then New York. I don't know when I'll be back." She said dully, "But Michael has never sung before. 'This is important to him. I couldn't let him down." "T see." The words were like a little gate closing against her. Michael came into the kitchen when she hung up the receiver. He flung himself upon her, hugging her with all his might. "TI love you," he said. "I'm going to sing like a million dollars, you wait and listen." She hugged him to her, hiding her face in his hair.: NOW covered the ground in the morning, hiding the bright, blown leaves, shrouding the trees. Joarina was glad to see the whiteness. It hid the color of a hot autumn. She plunged into the business of getting her family settled in the new house, and her work moved to the little shop she and Abigail had found. These were gigantic undertakings, requiring their toll of her strength, until she fell into bed so exhausted that her heart began a queer, lurching sensation. She went to a doctor. He shook 460 his head. "You really must slow down, Mrs. Niels..." She smiled at him. "I will slow down, just as soon as I get things settled. Then I'm planning a visit to one of the seacoast towns. I'm going to lie under a palm for months and months." His rueful smile matched her own. "lve been planning something like that for thirty years. Don't put it off too long, Mrs. Niels." But when the moving was finished, the new furniture in place, and her small brood gathered in silent ecstasy before the joy of their first fire in their first fireplace, Joanna wondered if she would ever be so happy again. She sat in the low rocker that she had brought from the old house and slipcovered. The children knelt on the white shag rug before the blaze. Penny's hands were clasped under her chin. "I guess this is the most beautiful house in the whole, wide world." Joanna laughed and curled Sally's long yellow hair around her fingers. "There must be thousands of nicer houses than this, right in this city." "With this this feeling in them, Mother? 'This beautiful feeling?" Joanna nodded. "With this beautiful feeling. But aren't we lucky to have it?" She smiled at David. "I see you've written out the chores?" David nodded and sped to get the paper. "I got it all figured out, Mother. If each one of us will just do his job and put a check right here when he's finished, there won't be hardly anything for you to do." Joanna read the list again. David RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 was to take care of the lawns and the porches and the basement, Michael was to oversee the wastebaskets and run the errands, and help Sally with the dishes. Penny was to make the beds, vacuum, and dust. Sally laid her cheek on Joanna's knee. "Oh, Mother, I love you so much." "We all do," David said, "and someday you won't have to do one single thing. We'll do it all. You can just ride around in a car and wear fur coats and things." "Mink," said Joanna and bent and laid her face against Penny's cheek. "My children," she said softly, "my dears." OANNA used to wonder which gave her the greatest joy, her house or her new shop. The shop had been a dreary little place when she rented it, with fly-specked mirrors, dirty walls, and grimiet floors. Now, under the brushes of ainters and the scrubbing cloths of herself and Abigail, the place began to gleam. She papered the front of the shop in yellow and gray striped paper, hung pale yellow poplin drapes at the windows, covered the floor in black linoleum with a yellow border. Her showcases glistened. She hung bright plates in a circle around the mirror,