[Vol55 | September 1968 | Sequence: 17 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
642  From  Near  and  Far 
659  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
660  Editorial— It  Is  the  Little  Things  That  Count     Louise  W.  Madsen 
696  Notes  From  the  Field— Relief  Society  Activities 
720    Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home— Inside  and  Out 
662  Ribbon-Worthy  Work     Sarah  Emmaline  Winsor  McBride 
676  A  Little  Walk  Along  the  Upper  Provo  River  (Utah)     Claire  Noall 
678  A  Nursery  for  Loving  Care     Virginia  Tippetts 
679  Chore  Chart     Ann  Muir  Anderson 
680  The  Wonder  of  Bulbs     Alice  Willardson 
682  An  Old-Fashioned  Fair  for  Harvest  Time 
684    Gift  Cookies  For  All  Occasions     Melba  S.  Payne 
Lesson  Department 
703  Spiritual  Living— The  Blessings  of  the  Priesthood     Roy  W.  Doxey 
709  Visiting  Teacher  Message— Each  Person  Needs  to  Feel  Accepted     Alice  Cotton  Smith 
710  Homemaking— Priceless  Treasures     Celestia  J.  Taylor 
712  Social  Relations— Lighting  the  Way    Alberta  H.  Christensen 
718  Cultural  Refinement— no  lesson  planned  for  December 
689  Two  Self  Portraits  by  Rembrant  van  Ryn     Floyd  E.  Brienholt 
690  "Snowstorm"  by  Joseph  Mallord  William  Turner     Floyd  E.  Brienholt 
691  "Lady  Jean"  by  George  Bellows     Floyd  E.  Brienholt 
Poetry 
641    Autumnal     Linnie  F.  Robinson 
Visiting  Teachers,  Annie  C.  Esplin  650;  Autumn  Serenade,  Margaret  Read  654;  Today  We  Live, 
Rente  H.  Littlewood  693;  Woodland  Child,  Peggy  Tangren  695;  Faith,  Bonnie  S.  Gudmundson  708. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ©  1968  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign.  $2.00  a  year:  20c 
a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  sup 
plied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new 
address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the 
Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  Oc- 
tober 8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manu- 
scripts.

Birthday  Congratulations  to 
September  8,  1968 
■  On  his  ninety-fifth  birthday,  the  women  of  the  Church  extend 
congratulations  to  President  David  O.  McKay  whose  voice  has  been 
lifted  in  many  lands  to  proclaim  the  everlasting  gospel — whose 
travels  and  teachings  have  circled  the  globe,  and  whose  counsel  and 
guidance  have  been  such  a  blessing  in  directing  Relief  Society 
activities.  We  feel  to  express  gratitude  and  rejoicing  for  the  prophet 
who  dwells  among  us,  and  whose  days  have  been  lengthened  upon 
the  earth  to  give  counsel  and  blessings  to  the  world-wide  Church 
membership. 
It  is  a  comfort  and  an  inspiration  to  Relief  Society  women  to 
know  that  they  may  look  to  President  McKay  and  to  Sister  Emma 
Ray  McKay  for  an  example  of  ideal  family  life,  and  for  direction  in 
Church  and  community  service.  They  have  guided  the  sisters  and 
directed  them  along  the  pathways  that  encompass  the  lives  of 
Latter-day  Saint  women.  Counsel  has  been  given  for  the  sisters  as 
they  progress  in  their  callings  and  increase  in  their  responsibilities 
from  the  time  that  they  are  daughters  in  the  home,  to  activities  as 
missionaries  or  students,  to  the  time  of  marriage  and  motherhood — 
and  always  in  their  positions  of  membership  and  leadership  in 
Church  auxiliaries. 
Many  of  the  daughters  of  Zion,  in  times  of  perplexity  or  indeci- 
sion, have  paused  to  ask  themselves:  "What  counsel  has  President 
McKay  given  us  in  answer  to  this  questioning?  What  guidelines 
has  he  set  before  us  to  indicate  direction  and  the  pathway  that  will 
lead  to  eternal  progress  and  an  understanding  of  everlasting  pur- 
poses?" 
The  spiritual  environment  of  seeking  women  in  the  Church  has 
been  illuminated  and  made  more  beautiful  through  the  life  and  the 
teachings  of  President  McKay.  He  has  said:  "I  want  to  express 
appreciation  of  the  environment  with  which  I  was  blessed  .  .  .  those 
grand  old  mountains  .  .  .  the  meadowlark  singing  in  the  morning  .  .  . 
daybreak  over  the  eastern  hills.  .  .  .  Swiftly  do  we  become  like  the 
thoughts  we  love  .  .  .  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  permeates  all  nature  .  .  . 
one  must  put  oneself  in  tune  by  obedience  to  eternal  principles  of 
conduct  and  by  authoritative  confirmation."  {Home  Memories,  pp. 
215-216.) 
May  the  faith  and  prayers  of  Relief  Society  women  everywhere 
be  manifest  in  birthday  wishes  to  President  McKay.  May  our 
Heavenly  Father  continue  to  bless  him.  We  are  thankful  for  a 
prophet  "to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 
644

\