Spafford

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY ot The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office:

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! This packet of visual aids and pictures ls designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons $1.25 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, seret Boo COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA vga a Utah 84110 or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send items circled if 2 Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 3!2% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account. Total $.. Illo gu 0009050 0928008 5005 0D ER ER EES nese see ss oe senna Address... 00.0... Cece ccc eee ees 3.00000 City...............-.. State... SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [I (check here) Sept. R. S. 68 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life can help you build your future... Insurance is the stuff that dreams are made of. Beneficial Life mortgages help make home ownership a reality for thousands of eager young families. A Beneficial Life insurance policy makes it possible for a famly to retire its mortBENEFICIAL LIFE gage early, should the need arise. Beneficial Life helps buy and Srsurance Company protect the ownership of that new home. Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ¥ The Relief Society agazine OCTOBER 1968 HOLD AUTUMN There is a pause in October... A sigh as though earth breathes One golden breath of forever Into the gathering sky. The oak turns And there is a magnificent heather Turned sun... And all becomes one Late testimony Of beauty Before death takes what seems like Its one solemn duty... The toll of winter. Above ail the harvested grains And the flash of red in the hills That touch heaven, There is that one last sigh That is seven Times seven springs driven. The magnificent all-consuming pulse For life hard-put-out. The flame Before the smoke Has risen. —Marilyn McMeen Miller The Cover: §§ Brown and Gold in Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire W. Noali Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: fj Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: fj Dick Scopes Illustrations: G Mary Scopes 721 C Som ON ear and Ser I cannot express fully the joy and appreciation I received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I thank Sister Mckay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. I read this article often, and it cheers me up when I am blue, and makes me feel that.! Can do better. Y Marian del Vatie, Abbeville, Louisiana I thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), I find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature I have ever read. Sally Cheney, Santa Rosa, California I cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content.! Watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although I regret parting from my sisters here, I know that I will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors. R. May M. Foote, Billingham, Teeside, England This is my second year for receiving regularly The Relief Society Magazine. Like so many wives in this day and age, I must work outside the home, and like all of these women who receive the Magazine, and who cannot attend the regular meetings, I feel closer to all the sisters everywhere. After reading the Magazines I pass them on to a very good Methodist friend of mine. She, in turn, uses the copies in her Sunday School, whenever possible, as well as in her church meetings. These lessons are received with pleasure, for there is much to be gained in spite of the difference in religious beliefs.; Ruth E. Sanford, San Francisco, California I am humbly grateful to find my poem ''The Maker of Hills" in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. To have it illustrated in such a beautiful manner, with a picture of hills, gives me much pleasure. I am happy to be featured on the page with Helen Mrovka, where her fine article ''The Song of the Hills'' appears. Annie C. Esplin, Orderville, Utah How thrilled and proud I was to read in the July 1968 issue of the Magazine (page 558) that one of my mother's poems (''Rain Song,'' January 1962) is going to be reviewed in the cultural refinement lessons. She is the same Bernice Burton Holmes who won second place in the Relief Society Poetry Contest in 1962. Her daughter-in-law Carol Crane Holmes feels especially honored because, as the cultural refinement class leader in the Woodland, California Ward, she will be privileged to be teaching this lesson - when it comes. Trilby Priest Holmes, Brea, California I can hardly believe it! When I read 'Aunt Elly's Mirror," (July 1968, by Mary Alice Moore), it was like a reflection on my own life. I get so lonely, and sometimes the phone won't ring for days. I came from the city, and we now live on-a ranch with vur three busy children. We recently remodeled the old family home with a large picture window, and I have been willed an old picture frame. I have now decided to rejuvenate the frame and make a mirror out of it for our '"'new home.'' Thank goodness far The Relief Society Magazine to keep me busy. Renie Moore Hibbert, Otto, Wyoming 722 The RelIlicf Society Magazine volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 ~=For All Eternity If Not for Time Harold B. Lee 728 A Pleasant Journey Pauline J. Jensen 731 Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Virginia S. Harrington 738 Recipe For Family Home Evening Lillian Y. Bradshaw Fiction 749 The Anniversary Kathleen Peace Gregory 761 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 7 Mabel Harmer General Features 722 From Near and Far 743, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 ~—'Editorial—The Inspiration That Guides Us Louise W.