[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 6 | Fiction | If Spring Be Late— Chapter | ]

RIBBON-WORTHY WORK

Sarah Emmaline Winsor McBride, Pima Ward, St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, has crocheted, knitted, embroidered, and quilted from early life. She was following in the footsteps of her grandmother who had won ribbons at the Chicago World's Fair.

It has been one of the great joys in her life to be able to give handmade articles to friends and relatives on special occasions. It has been said that a room wouldn't hold all the articles she has made.

In addition to keeping busy with handiwork, Sister McBride keeps up on world affairs, reads many and varied books, and has been active in the auxiliaries of the Church, and in community organizations. She served as a visiting teacher for thirty years.

She has seven children, ten grandchildren, and fourteen great-grandchildren. At eighty-six, she still has a zest for living and is seldom idle.

662

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By
(Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69)

Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted
Alice Colton Smith

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969

OBJECTIVE: To show that acceptance encourages growth.

It is easy to thrill with borrowed courage as we identify with the shepherd leaving the comfort of the fold to search the hot, scorching desert for the strayed. We rejoice that Jesus saw good in the sinner and offered the water that quencheth all thirst to the oft married woman then living with a man not her husband. We are gladdened by the acceptance of the erstwhile wastrel, the prodigal son by his father. We are delighted that Jesus received little children when his disciples "rebuked those that brought them." (Mark 10:13.) We are grateful that Jesus would dine with publican and sinner. But what would happen if Jesus were our neighbor—dining with sinners, seeking out those who had left the Church, visiting with a woman whose reputation was besmirched, and accepting back, with love, the family "black sheep"?

Do such in need of help dwell on our street? Can we, as Jesus, keep our own standards yet receive into our hearts and lives those whose behavior is different and help them gradually to find a better way? How can we become the greatest friend (not necessarily the most intimate) of both non-active Saint and member?

One wintry afternoon, a nonmember woman said to me, "The Mormons at this university have much to say to one another, but they do not include me in their visiting. I've spent three lonely years on this campus. I can't wait until I'm back home and some Mormon missionary calls on me. Will I give it to him. The Mormons don't practice what they preach." Do we send our missionaries at great expense to the far corners of the earth and fail to preach the gospel through our lives at home? Also, how can we help returned missionaries and their families be gracious to visiting mission members?

One boy's mother constantly told him he was the ugliest boy on earth. A younger son had an older brother held up to him as better and more capable. An anxious mother continually criticized her daughter, rarely praised her. A teacher openly favored her pleasant pupils while disapproving of the less capable and unruly.

709

September 1968

"The noblest aim in life is to strive to live to make other lives better and happier," said President David O. McKay. (Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., p. 280.) To encourage, to help achieve, praise whenever possible, teach how to learn from failure, to give to each child the certainty that he is a worthwhile, loved, and valued child of his parents and of God, to accept others with their limitations, as people such as are we, who are not yet perfect but desire to be, is to follow the advice of our prophet. Of children and the non-Mormon, especially, we should be thoughtful and considerate. None should be called bad, although sometimes we may and should discuss that which is being done as not praiseworthy. By loving and accepting all our neighbors as worthwhile, we will help them and us grow toward God. Acceptance is the fertile soil in which growth takes place.

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events.

INTRODUCTION

Instinctive in all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, is the desire to preserve for our posterity the knowledge and assurance of our having lived. Coupled with this natural inclination is the impulse to share with our associates, particularly our loved ones, our moments of happiness, our accomplishments, our aspirations, and our hopes. Were this not so, no books would have been written, no songs would have been sung, and no pictures would have been painted.

The Latter-day Saints are a record-keeping people, for to keep records is a part of their great heritage from The Book of Mormon, as well as from the Bible. Our interest in genealogy bears ample evidence of this fact. In his infinite wisdom, the Lord has commanded from time to time, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, the keeping of records of all that has transpired.

The Relief Society Magazine for January 1967 contains the homemaking discussion, "Keeping

710

Records," which emphasizes the value and importance of keeping various kinds of home-management records. We recommend a review of this particular discussion. However, the purpose of our current discussion is to make us aware of the joy and satisfaction, as well as the historical values, to be gained from the compilation of significant family events and to indicate various methods which can be employed in the making of such records.

HOW SHALL WE COMPILE OUR FAMILY RECORDS?

Some months ago, in answer to a request for information relative to this subject, one of our lovely Relief Society sisters, who is a mother of nine children, contributed several ideas which should prove helpful. To begin with, she says, "Without counting my husband, my children, the gospel, etc.—of all the lovely worldly things I possess, the ones I cherish far above all others are the family books I have kept since our marriage twenty-three years ago. I have often told baby-sitters that if the house caught on fire, by all means to get the children out first, but if there was any time at all—to get our family records out next."

She says further, "I have these books custom-made at a bookbinding company so that they are all the same size." Briefly, this is what these books are comprised of:

1. Our Wedding Book
2. Our Life Together Books
   a. Baby pictures and announcements
   b. Yearly family pictures
   c. Homes we have lived in

   d. Schools our children attend
   e. Wards where we have had our recommends
   f. High school graduations
   g. Armed services
   h. Missions
   i. College graduations
   j. Family weddings
   k. Grandchildren
   l. Church activities
   m. Vacations and trips
   n. Business ventures
   o. Other family activities

3. Children's Record Books (One for each child)

Sister Badger says, "I believe that keeping a book for each child is one way of making a child feel that he is ... an individual with talents, abilities, and achievements of his own. ... Each little accomplishment is duly recorded. There is nothing my children enjoy more than getting their books out and looking through them or showing them to a friend." Some of the things recorded in these books are:

   a. A newspaper the day of the child's birth (This tells so much—the weather, clothing styles, world and local news, hair styles, movies, food prices, etc.)
   b. Personal firsts (first tooth, haircut, day of school, etc.)
   c. Significant events (Church activities, parties, hikes, accidents, etc.)
   d. Friends
   e. Pets
   f. Schools and teachers
   g. Personal accomplishments
   h. Jobs

4. Family Home Evening Book. Each page includes a program of events, chairman, song, prayer, business, scripture, program, refreshments, and any special activities which might be included.

5. Photograph Album. "Always have your camera loaded." This album contains treasured pictures, mostly unplanned, on-the-spot snapshots which

711

September 1968

become an important part of the family record. It also contains family photographs taken from time to time.

6. Scrapbook. This contains cards children have made for Mother's Day, Father's Day, birthdays, valentines, and Christmas. It contains the art work of children mounted on colored construction paper with child's name and age. It contains, also, original compositions—stories, poems, talks, special letters, etc.

7. Family Treasures. Plastic-covered pages are used to keep and preserve family treasures such as precious letters (John Taylor, Brigham Young), an old clipping announcing Lincoln's death and

the other important events which may be among the family's possessions.

CONCLUSION

Every family may not want to carry out such an extensive record program, but each can work out its own method according to the needs and desires of its members. The important thing is that every family realize the joy and satisfaction which can come to them through the preservation of the significant things which have made their own family what it is.

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life

Lesson 3—Lighting the Way
Alberta H. Christensen

(Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969

OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human relationships.

INTRODUCTION

In the foreword of Behold the Lamb of God written by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Harold B. Lee speaks of President Clark's humble faith and of his scholarly study of the life of the Savior:

Among the great scholars of our day was President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. During the earlier mature years of his life, he lived away from the organized units of the Church, in Washington, D.C., and

later in Mexico, associated with the State Department of the United States, and then with the diplomatic service.

During these years, the Sabbath Day was observed by him just as sacredly as though he were in full attendance at Church meetings and Church activities. He engaged himself on the Sabbath, when there were very often no other activities available, in the study of the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the Savior of the world. He procured, over these years, an excellent library on the life of the Master and with painstaking care, set about to work out a "harmony" of

712

September 1968

stances which the Holy Writ tells us about, came him who was to be and was the Savior of the world. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, Deseret Book Company: Salt Lake City, 1962, p. 97.)

For Home-doing

Make the ministry of the Savior, as well as the advent of his birth, a living part of Christmas in your home this Christmas time.

CULTURAL REFINEMENT
Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family.
No lesson is planned for December in this department,
due to the holiday season.

[DECORATIVE FLOURISH]

[ADVERTISEMENT WITH ILLUSTRATIONS]
WORLD WIDE
Travel Agency

FIESTA TOURS
MEXICO
Personally Escorted

Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969
Enjoy Summer Sun in
Fabulous Acapulco • Quaint Taxco • Majestic Mexico City • Beautiful Guadalajara
Pueblo • Mazatlan and other cities

Included:
All Transportation                    Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise,
Good Hotels—fine Food & Safe Water        Famous High Divers, Xochimilcho, Dancing, etc.,
12 Meals                            Deep Sea Fishing (optional)
Famous Railway in the sky           13 Archeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of
Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet,    Quetzacoatl, Tula, Zachicalco, etc.

ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR "TRAV-A-LEADERS"
Specializing in Mexican Tours
Write: 1795 East 3170 South • Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 • Phone: 484-9752

718
