[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 703 | General Feature | Gift Cookies For All Occasions Melba S. Payne | Lesson Department]
[Gift Cookies For All Occasions Melba S. Payne Lesson Department]

Although the prophets, seers, and revelators (First Presidency, Apostles, and Patriarch to the Church) have 

703 September 1968

 the power to interpret the scriptures, yet they are under the overall power and authority of the President of the Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Address to Seminary and Institute Faculty, July 7, 1954, at Brigham Young University.) No faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint would contend against these authorities on matters of doctrine. With the foregoing limitation, every member of the Church should receive revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a_revelator. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950, Vol. 6, p. 58 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC\.) In this same vein, the Prophet wrote that in this dispensation there would be revealed know]- edge that had been kept hidden from before the foundation of the world. Furthermore, this period of time was anxiously desired by the ancients, for all things would be made known. (D&C 121:26-32.) Class Discussion In what ways may a member of the Church profit by the gift of revelation? VAIN EFFORTS Men are incapable of preventing the Lord from giving revelation to his people, since man cannot stop the operations of the Holy Ghost. The individual by his unworthy actions may, however, prevent the Holy Spirit from giving him guidance and blessings. (D&C 1:32-33; 130:20-21.) 704 The numerous attempts to thwart the Lord's work in this dispensation have come to nothing. Although individual apostasies among some in high places have made their impact 'upon others, the Church has continued to roll forward. President John Henry Smith said the following about the work of the Lord:... Nothing can Stay its progress. You and I may fall by the wayside; we may lack the fortitude and faith to endure and fulfill our part; but the work itself has gone on from the day the announcement was made of the administration of heavenly beings, and it will continue in its onward march until every nation, kindred, tongue, and people throughout the universe shall hear the glad tidings of great joy and have the privilege of accepting or rejecting the same in the exercise of the agency our Father has given them.... It can not be expected that its mission will be accomplished without Opposition. It must meet adverse elements, it must overcome obstacles, it must secure the ground step by step, without fear and without favor, honoring our Heavenly Father, and maintaining the dignity of that Priesthood God has given to us.... (Conference Report, October 1905, pp. 13-14.) CALLED AND CHOSEN The Lord has said that many are called, but few are chosen. (D&C 121:34.) His servants have been calling upon the nations to repent. Many have responded to this call, and those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ are chosen, for they are the salt of the earth. They are the savor of men; that is, they are distinctive among men. (D&C 101:39-40; 1 Peter 2:9.) But all who become members of the kingdom of God do not fulfill the requirements to become chosen. Worthiness of life is the requisite to be chosen. (D&C 105:35-36.) Jesus came into the world that light might lead men to the Father. He is declared to be the Light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. (D&C 93:2.) Then it follows that those who elect to remain in darkness rather than to receive the light have not become aware of the spiritual influences which may enlighten their lives. THE THINGS OF THIS WORLD In a further explanation of the reason for members of the Church not being chosen, the Lord said that they set their hearts upon the things of this world. (D&C 121:34-35.) When one's heart and mind are upon temporal things only, his spirituality is weakened until the things of God are no longer a part of his daily life. Sometimes this weakening process is hastened when men seek the approbation and praise of men at the cost of principle. When this happens, the bearer of the priesthood forgets that only upon the principles of righteousness is it possible to call upon the powers of heaven. Former spiritual strength is wasted away, and the individual has lost the power to officiate for the Lord and to bless his family with the divine influence which accompanies righteous conduct. (Ibid., verse 36.) What are some of the things of this world which lead to this condition? In the same revelation, we learn that pride, vain ambition, and compulsion, when used to dominate the souls of men, bring a loss of the Spirit of Lesson Department the Lord. (/bid., verse 37.) Inordinate pride prevents a person from being sufficiently humble to acknowledge his weaknesses and faults. A domineering attitude does not allow a husband-wife-child relationship full growth in a home. Compulsion was the plan advocated by Lucifer in the premortal world. It has brought hardship and sorrow from the evil it has created in the lives of the dominated. The following counsel to Emma Smith is applicable to all: And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay -aside the things of this world, and seek the things of a better. (D&C 25:10.) Class Discussion Wherein do pride, vain ambition, and compulsion work toward disharmony in the home? INDIVIDUAL SALVATION Each person is saved upon the same principles. No distinction is made between them, for each is a child of God sent to this earth to receive training in the laws of progress. Men are ordained to the priesthood because this authority is the power to preside in the home and in Church capacities. The woman, on the other hand, has the responsibility to bear and rear children. In this capacity she must give her time and talents that the children receive the best training in principles of righteousness. The husband and wife, together, share the responsibility of rearing the children. The mother is entitled, through her faithfulness, to receive the blessings of the priesthood. For this purpose, she is married in the temple where she receives 

705 September 1968

 the principles of exaltation and, in a real sense, partakes of the greatest blessings of the priesthood that God bestows upon his children. (D&C 124:27-28; 41-42.) PRIESTHOOD PRINCIPLES One of the important purposes for which men exist is to perform service for others. Since all men agreed premortally to sustain the plan of salvation, each one is under covenant to assist in the salvation of all men who also made the same covenant. When men or women use their influence to affect for good the behavior of others, they are fulfilling this obligation. The Lord has said that when bearers of the priesthood attempt to affect the behavior of others, they should do so only upon righteous principles. These are enumerated in the revelation as: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. (D&C 121:41-42.) Inasmuch as women in the Church seek the same salvation as the men, and the priesthood saves both on the same principles, priesthood principles of conduct must be adhered to by both. "ONLY BY PERSUASION" The priesthood bearer and those who receive the blessings of the priesthood are counseled to use their authority only by persuasion, not by force. One persuades to his own belief or actions by appeal to reason, and not by force. In terms of the gospel plan, free agency is the basis for governing the souls of men. Force was rejected in the pre- 706 mortal councils as being opposed to the laws of God. One may urge but not compel. The mother in the home has the rare opportunity to persuade the children to act in conformity with good principles. She listens to complaints, entreaties, and requests, knowing that at these times correct counsel and instruction may be given. In this process one repeats counsel and also the consequences of disobedience to law. The Prophet Joseph Smith was upbraided by the Lord, on an occasion, for accepting the persuasions of men rather than the counsel of God in the revelations. As a consequence, he was denied the privilege of continuing in the Lord's work until he repented. (D&C 3:5-8.) So also does man forfeit blessings by failing to follow righteous counsel. "BY LONG SUFFERING" The saints are called upon to bear patiently the ridicule, insults, or even injuries which may come because of adherence to the truth. The Savior suffered insult, ridicule, and extreme pain as no man has suffered. (D&C 19:15-17.) His life in this respect is a challenge to all. To teach a child of God that gospel truths are worth taking the insults or tauntings of others, is a noble task. To learn that truth is truth and will ever remain so, and that the finest quality of soul is to stand up for truth, is a major lesson to be learned in life. "BY GENTLENESS AND MEEKNESS" Authoritarian methods of instruction, where the parent or teacher attempts to impose his will upon someone else, are contrary to the principles of gentleness or meekness. Harsh methods of discipline are rarely effective. Fear of reprisal or correction rarely brings desirable results, for fear may generate hatred for the disciplinarian. Quiet conversation without a display of anger, becomes the rewarding method of obtaining results. Is it not also wise to be a good listener to receive the full story rather than only one side? The gentle, meek person seeks to understand, to use gospel principles as guides to correct solutions to problems. His concern is to make the _ best judgment in all cases by weighing all evidence and, through prayer, to reach right decisions. "BY LOVE UNFEIGNED AND BY KINDNESS" Love of God is the highest expression of love that is possible. (Deut. 6:4-9.) Can a man love God and not love his fellow man? The apostle John answers this question with a question: "... He that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" (I John 4:20-21.) Members of the Church are bound together in a bond created by the Spirit of the Lord. Of all people, their administrations should be characterized by love. This love must be unfeigned; that is sincere, genuine, not pretended. "PURE KNOWLEDGE" The dictionary defines "pure" as faultless, perfect, true, and blameless. Pure knowledge, as Lesson Department used in the revelation, includes all of these adjectives. The knowledge that saves is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ— it is true knowledge. The laws of righteousness are perfect, blameless, and faultless. In view of this information, for what kind of knowledge should the Latter-day Saint seek? Without gospel knowledge, it is impossible to be saved, and it is impossible to assist in the salvation of others. What has already been given in this lesson about the virtues which should govern one's actions in his relationship with others, indicates the need to follow the Lord's counsel. If true knowledge is to guide our actions, then what principle is given for our guidance after we have reprimanded a son or daughter, or others? The answer is: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. (D&C 121:43-44.) If one desires to be "moved upon by the Holy Ghost," it is necessary that his life conform to "pure knowledge." Would the Holy Ghost inspire and direct the father or mother who did not try to use the principles by which the priesthood operates? (Moroni 8:25-26.) If we are faithful in bestowing love toward our own and others, this promise is given: Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence 

707 September 1968

 of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. (D&C 121:45-46.) CONCLUSION The Lord promises through his ancient and modern prophets that revelation would be abundant in the last days and that the members of his Church would enjoy its benefits. Men who would endeavor to stop his work would come to naught. Although those who would affiliate with his church would be the salt of the earth, all would not be chosen, primarily because their desires would be upon the things of this world. Some significant promises were given to the priesthood, an everlasting dominion with the blessings of the Holy Ghost. The principles necessary to function in the priesthood were qualities of soul, as important for the women of the Church as well as for the priesthood. In training children, instructing youth, and in the numerous relationships which exist among members of the Church and others, counsel was given whereby those relationships would be successful. Among these principles of righteousness were: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. If these qualities abound when instruction, reprimands, and counsel are given, the Holy Ghost will lead, guide, and direct into meaningful relationships.