[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 696 | General Feature | Editorial— It Is the Little Things That Count Louise | W. Madsen]
Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Sunderland Stake (England) Holds 'Achievement Day" April 6, 1968 Left to right: Francis Downing, President, Newton Aycliffe Ward Relief Society; May Guthrie; Margaret Cheek (seated in chair); Evelyn Murray; Heather Peacock; Dorothy Currie; Jane Hancock; Lily Collin. Afton Hardy, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held an 'Achievement Day' in our stake, which was most outstanding. Featured were displays of handiwork prepared by each of the fourteen wards and branches of the stake. Pictured is the display representing the Newton Aycliffe Ward. All of the displays were outstanding and depicted the great interest the sisters take in their work." 696 Texas South Mission, Southwest District, Eagle Pass Branch Holds First Relief Society Bazaar, February 23, 1968 Left to right: Ruby Cowan; Eva Pena, Counselor, Eagle Pass Branch Relief Society; Virginia Stephenson, missionary; Francisco Jimenez; Alica Zamarrippa, President; Oralia Maldonado; Fannie S. Hemsley, President, Southwest District Relief Society. Geneal J. Larsen, Supervisor, Texas South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Much cooperation was evident during the preparation for the first bazaar to be held in the Eagle Pass Branch. This is a small Spanish branch, where the sisters appreciate and enjoy the lessons from the Spanish Magazine. "From the proceeds of the bazaar, they were able to purchase a new Zigzag sewing machine which will be useful in preparing for future bazaars, and in teaching the members to do home sewing. "We are very proud of the accomplishments of this small branch." Nebo Stake Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention February 9, 1968 Gladys S. Wilson, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The stake board hosted a visiting teacher convention. A special tribute to visiting teachers was given by Ruth Rothe, in which she mentioned that for 125 years visiting teachers have been spreading their glad message. "There were 252 sisters in attendance. A lovely dinner was served, followed by a fashion show. Under direction of Zella Peay, stake Homemaking Counselor, classes had been offered teaching the techniques of tailoring. Ten coats and two suits resulting from these classes were modeled. Classes will be offered again this fall. "Visiting teachers with over forty years service were honored with carnations." 

697 September 1968

 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Magazine Display at Singing Mothers Concert April 19, 1968 Front row, left to right: LaPriel Frandsen; Evelyn Winters; Joan Harward. Second row, left to right: Arline Brown; Parenthia Rhead. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Magazine representative prepared a lovely display featuring The Relief Society Magazine in connection with the Singing Mothers Concert. The centerpiece of interest was a large globe which displayed the countries of the world where Relief Society is established. "The Singing Mothers chorus, consisting of eighty-two members, presented a concert with the theme, 'Love Makes the World Go 'Round.' 'Music was selected which portrayed the many kinds of love: love between man and wife; of family; for country; our Lord; one another; and of music itself. Light refreshments were served to 400 guests." Zion Park Stake (Utah), Hurricane North Ward Celebrates Relief Society Birthday March 1968 Left to right, modeling wedding dresses from 150 years old to modern: Monta Ballard; Carolyn Ballard; Winona Gibson; Dorothy Spendlove; Gloria Montgomery; Gai Stratton; Mina Hutchings; Corinne Stout. Marzeil L. Covington, President, Zion Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday celebration of the Hurricane North Ward Relief Society was well received and memorable to the many sisters who attended. The theme for the event was 'Take Time for Love, for Love Is Eternal.' "The program opened the door of memory to the most special day in a woman's life, as wedding dresses were modeled. There were fifty-five dresses in all, beginning with one just three days old, culminating with one 150 years old. As the dresses were modeled, music representing that -era was played. 'The hall was beautifully decorated in keeping with the theme, and little wedding bands in jewel boxes were given as favors. Invitations were extended to all sisters in the stake, and attendance was over 200."' Utah Stake, Provo Third and Provo Fourth Ward Relief Societies Present Programs for Anniversaries, April 25, 1968 Front row, left to right: Mildred Hall, President, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; former stake officers: Clarice Sumpter, President; Edna Williams, First Counselor; Ethel Lewis, chorister; Thelma Weight, cultural refinement class leader. Back row, left to right: Marion Seamons, Education Counselor, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; La Real Mitchell, Secretary; Geneve Shepherd, Second Counselor; Olga Nicol, Education Counselor, Provo Fourth Ward Relief Society; Eva Terry, President; Ida Bailey, Secretary; Alba Hatch, Homemaking Counselor. Clara P. Denham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Two of the wards in our stake celebrated their one hundredth anniversaries within a few months of one another. We invited each of them to present part of the programs which were presented in their wards at our stake Relief Society birthday party. "The Third Ward presented a talk, supported by two tableaux formed by sisters of the ward. The thirteen former presidents of this ward were featured in an inspiring review of devoted service. "The Fourth Ward presented a short slide presentation highlighting Relief Society activity from its organization in Nauvoo to the present day in the Provo Fourth Ward, also calling attention to the devotion of twenty-three former presidents. "In addition to these presentations, appreciation was given to five retiring board members, with slides and narration about their achievements." 698 I AOURTH WAR, Om I ANNIVERSARY I September 1968 East Ogden Stake (Utah), Thirty-Third and Forty-Third Wards Present "Thorns and Roses,"' March 1968 Front row, left to right: Ruth Webber, organist, Forty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Harding, President; Blanche Johnston,

spiritual living class leader. Back row, left to right: Kaye lvie, organist, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Hanson; Clarice Williams; Norma Willie; Wanda Blaisdell; Kathleen Newman, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Edith Horowitz; Colleen Roberts; Idonna Brunetti, chorister, Forty-Third Ward; Mona Chase. Lillian Christiansen, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: -''The Thirty-Third Ward and Forty-Third Ward of the East Ogden Stake Relief Society combined to present a most outstanding program in honor of the anniversary of Relief Society. "The theme for the program was 'Thorns and Roses,' and it consisted of original prose, poetry, and song lyrics. It honored our predecessors in Relief Society, and ended with a tribute to the workers of today. The picture shows the 'Nightingales,' who presented most of the singing for the program. Research was done in early Relief Society Magazines and other sources by Blanche Johnston and Helen Harding, to gather humorous and poignant highlights to make the program outstanding." Portland West Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Sing Frequently Mildred M. Jensen, President, Portland West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Music for stake quarterly conference in March was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Approximately seventy women participated. The Singing Mothers have been active this year, furnishing music for three of the past four stake conferences, and presenting an outstanding spring concert. "The concert featured not only the Singing Mothers chorus, but small ensembles and individual talent from members of the chorus. Beverly Smurthwaite is the stake chorister, and Carolyn Timothy accompanies the group." Garden Grove Stake (California) Makes Available Red Cross Home Nursing Program Standing, left to right: Beth D. Smith, Second Counselor, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, instructor trainer; Noreen S. Osborn, spiritual living class leader, instructor trainer; Ruth Vincent, instructor; Marian Johansen, instructor. Patient: Artee Cox. Afton W. Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Garden Grove Stake Relief Society presidency felt that we should make available to the sisters in the stake a course which would qualify them for a Red Cross certificate in Home Nursing, but, more importantly, that they would be able to care for the sick in their homes and be better prepared to nurse the sick on assignment of the president. "Santa Ana Chapter was the nearest organized chapter, but it was found that there were no qualified instructors in all of Orange County. With help from the Los Angeles Chapter, a qualified instructor trainer came to our stake and taught four registered nurses the necessary course of study to meet Red Cross qualifications. The course was completed in June 1967. "The following October, the first class was given, and from then to the last of April, four complete six-weeks courses in Home Nursing were taught. Forty-eight of our sisters received Red Cross certificates. The course will be made available each year to our stake as long as it is needed." 700 a fete De UeuE, Cae ween c 1% J Ni I Sue Gor I rs he ' ' if y> ¥-\ ie lny i] Pires y ') September 1968 - Olympus Stake (Ut ba ae be _ an — f ah) Relief Society Board Sponso April 27, 1968 Members of the Olympus Stake Relief Society board, front row, left to right: Ann Hemming; Metta Christensen; Maxine Porter, First Counselor; lola J. Peterson, President; Ann Larsen, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Varley, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Carroll Smith; Lucille Salisbury; Alfarette Liddle; Mary Ann Anderson; Elizabeth Woodhead; Maxine Silver. Sister Peterson reports: 'Members of the stake board prepared and served a luncheon to 400 guests. The flower centerpieces in the picture are made from dotted Swiss, and were made by members of the board. The dessert favors were small pots of ice cream graced by flowers harmonizing with the centerpieces.'' g "g 'i. > m ss Z ie, g. 3; + tg ae — ss rs Spring Luncheon Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Honors Visiting Teachers March 4, 1968 Seated, Minnie Hall, honored for having served forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. Former presidents of the Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Relief Society, left to right in the order in which they served: Faye S. Belliston; Drucitla L. Smith; (Alice T. Judd, absent); Vida F. Conway; Ruth F. Peterson; Zoe A. James, current President. Marval A. Smith, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Minnie Hall was honored for the service she has rendered for forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. She started as a young woman, just after she was married, and has carried the responsibility continuously. She has been an inspiration to all who know her, always going the extra mile. She is pictured with five of the six presidents under whom she served."' 702 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 91—The Blessings of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:26-46.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman resolves to use her influence in harmony with the great principles of persuasion, gentleness, and mildness, as set forth for the INTRODUCTION From the trials and difficulties of a dungeon jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote an epistle to the saints that has contributed three sections to the Doctrine and Covenants. (Sections 121, 122, 123.) In that part of the letter which makes up Section 121, emphasis is given to the condemnation of the enemies of the Lord's people, including apostates. Then follows a change from these condemnatory statements to the blessings received by the faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint. REVELATION TO ALL Aside from salvation itself as a gift of God, probably the greatest gift bestowed upon man in this life is the gift of the Holy Ghost. Without this gift there is priesthood to exercise. No salvation. (D&C 33:10-13; 76:50-53.) In addition to providing remission of sins with water baptism by an authorized servant of God, the Holy Ghost, among other blessings, is the means whereby revelation is communicated to man. (Ibid., 19:31; 2 Nephi 31:17; Moroni 10:5.) By the gift of the Holy Ghost men learn the truth of the revelations. (Moroni 10:3-4.) Among the other blessings, this power imparts knowledge of the plan of salvation to the member of the Church as well as to the prophet. One learns the meaning of passages of scriptures always subject, however, to the interpretation of those empowered to interpret the gospel.