[Vol55 | September 1968 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall]
Claire W. Noali Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: fj Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: fj Dick Scopes Illustrations: G Mary Scopes 721 C Som ON ear and Ser I cannot express fully the joy and appreciation I received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I thank Sister Mckay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. I read this article often, and it cheers me up when I am blue, and makes me feel that.! Can do better. Y Marian del Vatie, Abbeville, Louisiana I thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), I find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature I have ever read. Sally Cheney, Santa Rosa, California I cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content.! Watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although I regret parting from my sisters here, I know that I will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors. R. May M. Foote, Billingham, Teeside, England This is my second year for receiving regularly The Relief Society Magazine. Like so many wives in this day and age, I must work outside the home, and like all of these women who receive the Magazine, and who cannot attend the regular meetings, I feel closer to all the sisters everywhere. After reading the Magazines I pass them on to a very good Methodist friend of mine. She, in turn, uses the copies in her Sunday School, whenever possible, as well as in her church meetings. These lessons are received with pleasure, for there is much to be gained in spite of the difference in religious beliefs.; Ruth E. Sanford, San Francisco, California I am humbly grateful to find my poem ''The Maker of Hills" in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. To have it illustrated in such a beautiful manner, with a picture of hills, gives me much pleasure. I am happy to be featured on the page with Helen Mrovka, where her fine article ''The Song of the Hills'' appears. Annie C.