[Vol55 | September 1968 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson]
f/miA 
I  have  just  received  the  April  1968  edition  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  and  I  felt  that 
I  should  write  you  immediately  and  tell  you  how  the  story  "Home  Revisited"  (by  Christie 
Lund  Coles)  aroused  poignant  memories  in  me  of  my  father  when  he  was  very  ill  in  the 
hospital,  begging  to  be  "taken  home."  Unable  to  sleep  the  night  he  passed  away,  the 
great  truth  of  God's  mercy  came  to  me,  and  a  testimony  that  helped  to  prepare  me  in 
no  small  way  to  accept  the  restored  gospel  when  the  missionaries  came  to  our  door 
three  years  later.  I  have  realized  Moroni's  promise  in  answer  to  prayer  regarding  the 
truthfulness  of  the  gospel.  I  love  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Housework  goes  out 
the  window  when  the  Magazine  comes  through  the  door. 
Jean  C.  MacDonald,  Glasgow,  Scotland 
Thank  you  for  publishing  my  poem  "Storytime"  in  the  May  Magazine.  I  do  appre- 
ciate having  something  published.  It  may  interest  you  to  know  that  the  poem  was 
read  aloud  by  the  instructor  at  a  class  I  have  been  taking  —"Writing  for  Children"— an 
evening  class,  at  Santa  Clara  University.  She  had  seen  the  poem  in  our  Magazine 
at  the  home  of  a  friend,  and  had  recognized  my  name  as  being  on  her  enrollment 
list.  This  was  really  a  thrill  to  me.  All  the  members  of  the  class,  including  the  in- 
structor, were  nonmembers.  May  I  express  my  appreciation  for  Mabel  Harmer's  ser- 
ial "If  Spring  Be  Late"  (to  be  concluded  in  November).  It  is  always  rewarding  to 
read  Mabel's  stories.  Norma  Wrathall,  Sunnyvale,  California 
I  enjoy  the  many  poems  published  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  They  have  in- 
spired me  to  try  my  hand  at  writing  poetry.  Shirley  Dupuis,  Old  Town,  Maine 
I  have  gained  so  much  from  the  editorials  in  the  Magazine.  For  instance,  you  should 
see  how  I  have  marked  up  my  Magazine,  because  of  the  editorial  "A  Pattern  for  the 
Daughters  of  Zion"  (July  1966)  by  Vesta  P.  Crawford.  New  and  significant  thoughts 
were  given  to  ponder  over.  For  one  thing,  "Wisdom  and  strength  are  the  endowments 
of  the  woman  who  is  able  to  think  before  she  speaks,  and  then,  sometimes,  not  to 
speak  at  all."  I  have  used  this  suggestion  frequently.  It  helps  me  in  self-mastery, 
which  I  always  need  to  apply.  It  was  stated  in  such  a  way  that  I  can  recall  it  when 
applicable.  Thanks  for  this  inspiration.  The  Magazine  becomes  more  wonderful  all 
the  time.    I  appreciate  it  and  the  fine  choosing  of  material  that  goes  into  it. 
Clara  H.  Park,  Draper,  Utah 
I  just  had  to  write  and  tell  you  how  much  I  appreciate  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
Our  daughter  was  first  introduced  to  the  Magazine  at  home.  Now  she  is  a  class 
leader  in  Relief  Society  at  Brigham  Young  University  and  has  her  own  subscription.  I 
watch  every  month  for  helps  and  ideas  to  send  our  missionary  son  in  Italy.  I  thor- 
oughly enjoy  the  stories  and  articles  written  by  my  cousin  Frances  C.  Yost  of  Ban- 
croft, Idaho.  The  Magazine  has  been  in  my  home  for  more  than  twenty  years,  and 
gets  better  all  the  time.  Valaine  H.  Jessop,  Clearfield,  Utah 
Our  "Song  for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine,"  was  written  by  Sister  Mary  Grasteit,  who 
was  our  former  stake  Relief  Society  president.  Our  stake  has  enjoyed  it  so  much.  We 
have  also  recorded  it  on  tape.  It  was  used  to  launch  our  Magazine  drive  and  was  most 
effective.    One  of  the  verses  exemplifies  the  mood  and  spirit  of  the  song: 
When  things  are  going  not  just  right, 
And  everything  is  not  exactly  bright, 
Just  take  a  moment  with  this  book 
And  you  will  have  a  new  outlook. 
G/enna  C.  Woolf,  President,  Anaheim  Stake  Relief  Society  (California)

The 
Magazine       Volume  55  September  1968  Number  9 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp        Associate  Editor    Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager    Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
644    Birthday  Congratulations  to  President  David  0.  McKay 
646    Because  They  Care    Zelma  R.  West 
651     The  Red  Cross  and  Phoenix  and  Mesa  Stakes  (Arizona)  Relief  Societies  Conduct  Home  Nurse 
Training  Classes     Myrtle  R.  Olson