[Vol11 | May 1924 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Essence of a Tear Dr. George W. Middleton]

The Essence of a Tear By Dr. George W. Middleton
A chemist sat in his spacious shop While the multitude passed his door; In the pride of his heart he followed his art And thrived on the chemist's lore.
He had tested, by means of his spectroscope, The essence of stars and sun, And proved that the earth from her nebulous birth And the universe are one.
The tiniest bit of a phial was brought Containing a mother's tear,— The quintessent part of a mother's heart Distilled in a liquid sphere.
Great sage, who has reached by analysis The depths of the Milky Way, Since you are so wise, please analyze This precious drop, I pray.
So much water, and so much salt, For tears are all made of brine; Some indican blue, of an infinite hue,— The simples were linked in line.
This is the record which science gave Of the essence of a tear; Just cold and concise, like an invoice of ice, As it fell on the listening ear.


But it failed to discover the breaking heart Which was back of that gushing tear, Or to touch on the cause of the infinite laws Which determine our destiny here.
For a brave, fair boy, in the bloom of youth, With a blush on his manly face, Where a mother's kiss, in an hour of bliss, Had left its lingering trace,
Went forth to the front with the Stars and Stripes, When his country made its call; In the maddening roar of the battle's fore, He was one of the first to fall.
All draped in the folds of his own loved flag, With taps at the close of day, In his place in the row where the poppies blow They laid him in sadness away.
And a mother's heart went into that grave, And a mother pays the cost, In oceans of tears through the infinite years, For each boy that our wars have lost.
But science is dead to these things of the soul, Their dicta lie not in her course; She knows but dimension and modes of extension, And blind application of force.
The heart when it speaks knows no limiting bounds, But goes back of the tear to its cause, In the white heat of passion discovers the fashion Of Nature's great infinite laws.
Dissolved in this tear was a patriot's faith, And a mother's heart in a storm, But worldly men with the chemist's ken Saw only the outward form.
But the inward eye saw God enthroned In this miniature world of a tear, For all things of worth, both in heaven and earth, Are brought to focus here.