[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: AN APPEAL TO UTAH WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

AN APPEAL TO UTAH WOMEN.
	We publish in this issue the Governor’s
Proclamation in regard to an election, and
we hope and trust the women of this State
who hold the franchise, and have equal
political rights of suffrage with the men of
Utah will avail themselves of the privi-
lege conferred upon them in the constitu-
tion of the State, and by their earnest en-
deavors to promote the highest good of the
State and its people, use their utmost in-
fluence in the interest of harmony, and
show to the country, of which they are an
important part, that they appreciate the bal-
lot and will make use of it for its legiti-
mate purposes. In the years since statehood
was conferred upon the people many wom-
en have taken an active part in political
issues, and have rendered good service in
both the great parties. A few have been
elected to office, and have made a good rec-
ord. Utah alone of all the states has had a
woman senator, one who sat through two
terms of the Legislature, having been so
fortunate as to get the long term. And
women have been elected to the Lower
House and have been efficient in the work
assigned to them and acquitted themselves
well on committees In several counties in
the State women have filled the offices of
auditor, treasurer, recorder, etc., and at the
present time women are filling the offices of
recorder, treasurer and minor places and
no complaints are made in reference to their
honesty or capabilities. 
	There are comparatively few women who
would care to accept public positions of
trust or emolument if tendered them, but
the few have proven woman’s ability to
discharge public duties with credit and suc-
cess The work so far has . not intruded
upon the home or its obligations. No com-
plaints have been made of neglect of hus-
band or children because of going to vote
or holding office.
	Women can be very helpful in the com-
ing campaign if they will use their woman-
ly influence for justice and righteousness,
not condescending to any of the petty bick-
erings and strife that occasion broils and
disturbances when electioneering is in full
progress. It is not vet decided what the
mode of campaign will be, but whatever may
be the ultimate decision, it will be the plain
duty of every patriotic citizen to consider it
his or her duty to do his best for the main-
tenance of order and a peaceful solution of
the question to be settled by the votes of

[Column 2]
the people of the State. Do not, women of
our fair State, indulge in any ill feeling
that would keep you from casting your vote
for the man of your choice to represent
Utah in the halls of Congress.
	The conditions that confront the people
at the present time throughout the country
and throughout the world, demand from
women their earnest attention and the best
thought and active participation in the
public welfare in whatever way seems wise
and prudent; and more especially does it
devolve upon women who hold the ballot
to exert their utmost influence at the polls
by casting the ballot for men who will
serve their constituents honorably and up-
rightly without fear or favor in the inter-
ests, of justice and equality of privileges, and
maintain the rights of the working man or
woman as well as those who abound in
wealth, that all may enjoy the freedom and
liberty guaranteed by the constitution of
our country.
	At this crisis in the affairs of the state it
seems that every man and woman, and
especially heads of families, should stand
for the principles embodied in the good old
Constitution and Declaration of Inde-
pendence, formulated by our forefathers
under divine inspiration, as we candidly
believe; and whatsoever others may do who
disregard the Constitution or trample it
under foot, the Latter-day Saints above all
people should maintain their integrity to it
and manifest to the world that intense love
of freedom of conscience and the true spirit
of liberty that was the crowning virtue of
our Pilgrim fathers, and which eventually
must be the touchstone of human liberty
for all patriotic citizens who love their
country and the dearest rights of their
countrymen. Love God and your fellow-
men, is a motto often used, but more often
abused Utah should stand for righteous
laws and justice, and above all the women
of Utah should do their part in the inter-
ests of all the grave questions that are on
the tapis at the present time, and prepare
themselves for greater and graver condi-
tions and situations in the future.


[Column 1]
