Gratitude Should Be Expressed Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it (Proverbs 3:27). MANY of the tools for building happiness lie so close at hand that their worth is often unrecognized. Among these tools, easy to use and free for the taking, is gratitude. Its possibilities for assuring personal contentment and spreading joy to others have perhaps not been fully discovered by any of us. Gratitude has many facets, but fundamentally it is the recognition of the good and the beautiful and thankfulness for them. "Count your many blessings" has been good advice since the world began. This philosophy is still a comfort and a compensation, an ideal to be cultivated, for it is still a paradox of human nature that the largeness of gratitude does not always correspond to the extent of the blessings received. Appreciation is an attribute of the generous mind and the open heart.
When the spirit of thankfulness attains its full stature, it goes beyond gratefulness for that which we personally possess and gains joy from blessings which others own.
Whatever type of gratitude may permeate our thoughts, its value is only half effective if we do not express our sense of gratefulness. Gratitude unexpressed is idle treasure. The thoughtful word of sincerity, the simple "Thank you," the note of appreciation, are all answers for favors received. The alert willingness to offer service to those who have given freely of their time and substance is gratitude expressed.
Gratitude to God is the leaven of religion. Gratitude for country becomes the vital force of patriotism. Gratitude for one's heritage forms the basis for that continuity of life which expresses itself in record keeping and ordinances for the dead. Today more than ever before, we realize an abiding gratitude to that courageous ancestor of the family who first listened to the gospel and believed.
Too often children, even sons and daughters who have attained adult status, fail to give credit to their parents for years of sacrifice and care. Too often the rush of daily life obscures the duties of gratitude. Parents, too, as they grow older and their thoughts turn inward, may be guilty of ingratitude. Through lack of forbearance and understanding, they may demand more of their children than can be given or should be expected.
The Lord has said (Doc. & Cov. 59:21) "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled save those who confess not his hand in all thing, and obey his commandments."?V.P.C.