Notes TO THE FIELD
Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
"RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" was voted the official name of the Society by action of the General Board of Relief Society at the Board meeting held June 27, 1945. This name replaces "National Woman's Relief Society" by which name the Society has been known since 1892.
When Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the name chosen was "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Later when ward organizations were effected after the arrival of the saints in Salt Lake Valley, the designation "of Nauvoo" was dropped and, in 1872, by vote of the members, the word "Female" was also dropped from the title. "Relief Society" was used as the official name of the organization from that time until 1892 when the Society was incorporated for a period of fifty years under the name "National Woman's Relief Society." Since Relief Society is an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose message is to all the world, the name "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," is felt to be the proper one.
Stake Planning Meeting Recommended During September
THE General Board, with the approval of the General Authorities, again recommends that a stake planning meeting be held during the month of September, preliminary to the beginning of regular weekly meetings in October, for all stake board members, ward officers, and class leaders. It is recommended that, wherever feasible, this meeting be arranged in connection with a stake priesthood meeting or a local board conference in order to keep transportation at a minimum. The purpose of this meeting is to stimulate all phases of Relief Society work at the beginning of the 1945-46 season, to preview lesson work and other activities planned for the coming year, and to give whatever instructions and help are deemed necessary by the stake board. Stake Relief Society presidents will please acquaint their respective stake presidents with the recommendation that special meeting be held, and arrange with them as to the
most favorable time for calling the meeting. Stake Relief Society presidents are requested to send complete details of this meeting to all ward presidents as soon as possible so that good ward representation may be assured. The General Board feels sure that stake board members will make every effort to take full advantage of this special meeting, and that they will be well prepared to conduct their respective departments for ward workers at this meeting.
Red Cross Classes in Nutrition Now Available
THE American Red Cross is now offering throughout seven Western and Pacific States; namely, Utah, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, California, Oregon, and Washington, courses in nutrition designed to aid homemakers with the problem of substitute foods for rationed items and also with the proper preservation of food and food values. These courses are particularly valuable at the present time because of food restrictions and the possibility of future food shortages.
Two courses are available?one is a twelve-hour course; the other is a twenty-hour course. Classes are conducted once a week or at more frequent intervals according to the desires of those participating in the activity.
Relief Society groups wishing to take advantage of these courses are advised to get in touch with the nutrition chairman of the Red Cross in their local communities. Instructors will be provided free of charge and the necessary equipment will be supplied by the Red Cross.
Relief Society War Bonds to Be Deposited with General Board
DURING 1944, the General Board arranged for the pooling and safekeeping of war bonds purchased by Relief Society, so that none would be lost track of during the reorganizations of Societies which end of 1944, many bonds had been deposited with the General Board for safekeeping only, however, many Societies have not taken advantage of this service.
All stake and ward Relief Societies whose bonds have not been posted are urged to take advantage of the free safekeeping service offered by the General Board. No charge will be made for this service. Bonds mailed to the General Board for safekeeping be sent by registered mail. A receipt will be issued for each bond received, showing the name of the stake or ward Relief Society to which it was issued, the date of issue, the series, the bond serial number, the face value of the bond, and date of maturity. As the bonds mature, they will be returned by registered mail (Continued on page 477)