[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PIONEERS IN HUMAN WELFARE JESUS AND HuMAN WELFARE KNOW men," said Napoleon in exile on St. Helena, ''and I tell you that Jesus Christ is no man. Everything in him astonishes me. His spirit overawes me, and his will confounds me. Between him and whoever else in the world, there is no possible term of comparison. My armies have forgotten me, even while living, as the Carthagenian army forgot Hannibal. Such is our power! A single battle lost crushes us, and adversity scatters our friends.... What an abyss between my deep misery and the eternal reign of Christ, which is proclaimed, loved, adored, and which is extended over all the earth! Is this to die? Is it not to live?" One of the reasons why Jesus Christ continues to intrigue our interest and to draw our love, after two thousand years, is that he manifested such profound concern for people who were handicapped by sin' or physical or mental defects and that he taught principles which, wherever applied, have ameliorated their condition. Indeed, even those persons who do not believe in the godhood of Christ, accept wholeheartedly his social teachings as the highest ever advanced. In fact, these teachings, especially the spirit in which Jesus worked among those who needed his aid, constitute the basis of about all that has been done in human welfare activities since his time. It is this aspect of his teachings and practice, not the theology side, that we shall be concerned with in these lessons. 1. THE Facts IN THE LIFE OF JESUS ESUS was born inBethlehem, Palestine. His mother was Mary, and his reputed father was Joseph, although he was in a special sense the Son of God. One of the Gospels (Luke's) traces his ancestry back to David, king of Israel. But. Although Jesus was born in Bethlehem, he grew to manhood in Nazareth, which has been characterized as the most despised town in the-most. Despised province in the most despised nation on earth at the time. "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" was the way in which Nathanael, unbeliever, put his objection to what Christ was doing among the people. And this was thought a sufficient "argument" against his work. An incident related by Luke shows Jesus to have been what we call today precocious. | While he was visiting Jerusalem with his parents at about the age of twelve, he was found by them talking with the wise men of the Jews, who marveled at his knowledge and wisdom ? which astonished and pleased Mary and Joseph. With this single exception we know nothing of his childhood and early manhood in Nazareth. But Luke tells us in the most general terms that "Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." At thirty years of age Jesus entered upon his public. Ministry, which lasted only three years. But not before he had prepared himself by fasting and prayer and thought.
LESSON DEPARTMENT This, it seems, was after his baptism by his cousin John, whose work had already begun.
Forty days and forty nights, we are told, Jesus fasted in the wilderness, after which "he was an hungered."
Then it was that the tempter came to him, to try him by appealing to the physical appetite, the love of power, and the love of personal glory.
Students of the Gospels usually divide the life of Jesus into several parts. First, the Early Judean Ministry. He began his public work in Jerusalem at a Passover.
Here he drove the money changers out of the temple; talked with Nicodemus about being born again; and, on the imprisonment of John the Baptist, withdrew into Galilee. Second, the Galilean Ministry.
During this time he changed his residence from Nazareth to Capernaum; chose twelve men to be apostles, of whom six were humble fishermen; uttered those incomparable sayings that we are familiar with in the Sermon on the Mount; proclaimed the approach of the Kingdom of God, and foretold his own sufferings and death; was transfigured on the mount in the presence of three of his apostles; and became so popular as to excite the hatred of the Pharisees.
Thereupon he returned to Jerusalem with a popular acclaim that added fuel to the flames of that hatred. Third, the Journey to Jerusalem and his work there.
During this period occurred the raising of Lazarus from the dead at Bethany; the third prediction of his death and resurrection; denunciations against the Pharisees; and the tragic events of the Last Week in Jerusalem?the arrest, the betrayal, the trial before Pilate, the Crucifixion.
Last of all, comes the Period of the Resurrection 501 , with the various appearances to the disciples, his instructions to the apostles, and the Ascension. The Mormon historian, of course, would add another period?the Ministry of Jesus among the Nephites and the revelations of him to Joseph Smith. Meantime, it should be said, two things ought to be noted in the Jewish ministry of Christ. First, Jesus grew in the favor of the masses from the time of his first sermon in the synagogue at Capernaum till he entered Jerusalem; but, as he became more and more popular, he drew down upon him increasingly the wrath of the Pharisees, who were determined, if possible, to destroy both him and his influence with the people. The cause of this popularity is not far to seek. To *begin with, he knew more of God and of his life than the Jewish teachers generally. Then, with this knowledge as opposed to their book-learning, went the idea that he spoke with authority. But more perhaps than either of these was the feeling in the multitudes who followed him that here was a man who loved them.
There was a secret something in him that easily and quickly won their hearts. Second. As one goes over the details of the life of Jesus, one gets a clearer conception, as one reads, uf his mission as the Savior of the world.
Perhaps this is due to the fact that Jesus himself had to lead the thought, not only of the disciples generally, but of his apostles, from vagueness to clarity. At first they had the mistaken notion that he was to deliver the Jews from the Roman yoke, whereas he had come to deliver them, and all men, if they would, from the bondage of sin and ignorance and the ills of both the flesh and the spirit. 502 2. SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN CHRIST'S TIME SOCIAL problems are at heart moral problems.
When we raise the price of food because we can, not because it is necessary; when we take too much of the earnings of labor to the hurt of the worker because we have the upper hand; when we force poor people to live in slum districts where filth and ignorance and crime breed and fester; when we allow children to grow up undernourished and untaught?we are committing a moral as well as a social wrong. In the Old Testament, therefore, the word ?righteousness' properly covers what we today understand by the words. "ethics," "morals," and "justice." And so, when the major prophets, and some of the minor prophets as well, attempted to sere into the very souls of the people, especially of the leaders, the idea that God demanded righteousness, we have no difficulty in understanding the social implications of the sentence. "Wherewith shall I come before the Lord," cries Micah. "and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a vear old?.
Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He hath shewed thee. O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee. But to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?' And Isaiah says, "Seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow." Undoubtedly, as Rauschenbush points out, the "sympathy of the Christianity and the Social Crisis, Chapter I. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prophets, even the most aristocratic of them, was entirely with the poorer classes." Both Isaiah and Micah inveighed against "joining house to house and field to field," by which they meant the land-hunger of the wealthy; Amos condemned those capitalists who "'sold the righteous and the needy for a pair of shoes;" and others warned the judges in Israel against having one measure for the poor and another for the rich. But not only was the sympathy of the prophets with the poor; the law was made largely to protect the poor against the oppression of the rich.
Every seven years the fields were to lie fallow, and whatever grew on them belonged to all, like our berries on the hills and in the forests. The owners of grain fields and vineyards were  cautioned against too careful harvesting of corners, so that the poor might profitably glean. A hungry man, passing a field, was at liberty to help himself ?not as a privilege, but as a right. Moreover, the laborer must be paid at sundown. The Sabbath was in reality a labor law. "that thine ox and thine ass, and the son of thine handmaid, and the sojourner may be refreshed." No slave could be held forever, and when he became free he was to be loaded with gifts that he might get a fresh start in life.
Thus in ancient Israel "the manhood of the poor was more sacred than the property of the rich." And so, we repeat, social problems are moral problems, only on a large scale. It was on this excellerit foundation that Jesus built his greater social structure. 3. Social TEACHINGS OF JESUS AS the social standards of the Israelites before Christ were higher than those held by contemporary LESSON DEPARTMENT nations, so the social standards set up by Jesus were immeasurably above those of both the prophets and the law.
First of all, his estimate of human worth, on which all social theory and practice must ultimately rest, was far above that of his predecessors. The prophets and the law, as we have just seen, leveled at all oppression of the poor, partly, it would appear, through compassion.
Jesus put the matter on higher ground. The soul of the poor man was as precious as the soul of the rich man. As a matter of fact. He did not distinguish between individuals, when it came to measuring personal values in and of themselves.
Here is the classical statement of the case: "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"
With this idea of the inestimable value of human souls, Jesus sent his apostles "to all the world" to preach the gospel to "every creature." It was probably with this idea in mind, too, that he rebuked one of the apostles for trying to keep little children away from him, instead of encouraging them, on the ground that thev "were of the kingdom of heaven." Furthermore, Jesus looked upon every individual as consisting of a soul, or spirit, and a physical body, both of which needed to be taken care of. The spirit was more important, because it was eternal and, therefore, could not be destroyed, like the body. "The life is more than meat, and the body than raiment." And this dual being was enjoined to be "perfect." even as God is perfect. And then, secondly.
Jesus contemplated a new order of society, which he often spoke of as the King503 dom of Heaven. "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven."
There is no evidence to show that, by this phrase, he meant a political government, certainly not that the kingdom of heaven is something within us. The Jews of his time were looking forward to the establishment of a Messiahship, and Christ accepted this idea, with modifications, as the basis of his idea of the new social order. It was to be an order in which the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man should be the ruling principle. It goes without saying that this new social order contemplated marriage and the home. "They twain shall be one flesh''?this sentence represents the union of husband and wife in natural bonds, bonds of mutual love and purpose. And Jesus, contrary to the practice of not only the dissolute Romans of his time. But of his own people as well, was inflexibly opposed to divorce, except in recognition of an already broken union. "What God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.'' Also in the new order children, as in Jewish tradition.
Would be "'the heritage of the Lord." and he who had his "quiver full" should be "happy." because he would not be ''ashamed." It would not be an exaggeration to say that the groundwork of Christ's social teachings is laid in this passage: "A certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself. And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast answered right: This do, and thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, 504 said unto Jesus. And who is my neighbor? And Jesus answering said? "A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him;and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then Jesus said unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." (Luke 10:25-37) From the beginning there have been Christians who have thought that praying and reading psalms would save them, just as there are persons who would have us believe that waving a flag is the height of national patriotism. To such, apparently, these words were addressed by Jesus: "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: and before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand. Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hunRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:31-40) But Jesus did more than teach. He practiced his own doctrines? that is, he helped those who were in need as occasion presented itself. To be sure, much of the help he gave is beyond what any mere mortal can do, for he performed many miracles in behalf of those whom he aided. It is the spirit. However, in which he worked among the poor that is valuable to his followers generally. His sympathy for the helpless went far beyond anything to be found in the men of the Old Testament. He built up the self-respect of the poor, for one thing, by noticing them and then ministering to their needs, while at the same time he either ignored or rebuked those who were in the habit of receiving attention. If, as he said, "the poor ye have always with you," yet he gave as a sign of his Messiahship the fact that "the poor have the gospel preached unto them."
Every reader of the Gospels knows of his sympathy with the woman who put an insignificant sum of money into the contribution chest. "This poor widow," he said to his apostles, whom he called' specially to him for the purpose, "hath cast more in than all they which have cast into the treasury. For all they did cast of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living." He gave succor to the physically handicapped. On one occasion "two blind men followed him, crying, Thou Son of David, have mercy on LESSON DEPARTMENT us.
Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you! And their eyes were opened." (Matthew 9:27-31) St.
Mark has this about the healing of a deaf man, who had also a defective tongue: "They bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech. And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit and touched his tongue; and straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain." (Mark 7:31-36) In Mark, too, (2:1-12) we have a case of palsy healed, which is too long to be quoted here.
Luke tells us (17:11-19) that as Jesus went to Jerusalem "ten men that were lepers lifted up their voices and said, Master, have mercy on us. And he said, Go, shew yourselves unto the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed." Here, considerably abridged, is a case of what we of today would call insanity, but termed by Mark "possession." (5:1-20) When Jesus "came out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, who night and day was in the mountains, crying and cutting himself with stones.
Jesus said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And the unclean spirits (for their name was Legion) went out, and entered into the swine. And they that fed the swine came to Jesus, and they saw him that was possessed And their eyes were 505 with the devil, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind."
Perhaps it should be repeated that the purpose in giving these miraculous healings is to show the universal sympathy of Jesus for the poor and the physically and mentally handicapped.
Jesus also indicated the attitude that should be taken toward the sinner.
This is shown in such wellknown parables as "The Lost Sheep," "The Lost Penny," and "The Prodigal Son.'"' It is further manifested in his words to the woman taken in sin: "Neither do I accuse thee; go thy way and sin no more." He had no words of harshness, but only of compassion, for the sinner. To go out and find those who had broken the moral and social law?this was an obligation which he placed on his followers everywhere.
Suggestions for Discussion From the four Gospels and Christ's ministry to the Nephites (Third Nephi, in the Book of Mormon) select the social teachings of Jesus.
Every member of the class should read at least one of these references. In what ways could the Good Samaritan have been a good neighbor other than by binding the wounds and providing physically for the traveler?
What traits of character did Jesus manifest in his relations with his fellow men?
Name persons in history who have shown similar traits in their service to mankind. 
  Mission Lessons
HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
Lesson I?HEALTH AND HAPPINESS 'Today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness and every tomorrow a vision of hope."?From the Sanskrit.
Happiness is necessary to happiness, now, and in the future.
Great contributions have been made in recent years by science to safeguard Public Health.
Annual physical examinations of adults and health examinations of school children have contributed much to the happiness of the world. We cannot say any longer that "My boy, John, is thin like Grandfather, and that Mary's cough is chronic just like Aunt Nell's." In these days we must know why John is underweight and do something about it. Perhaps Aunt Nell died of Lung Fever, now known to be Tuberculosis. We must no longer take things for granted?there is a reason why one child has repeated attacks of sore throat and another snores badly and sleeps with his mouth open. The Doctor can tell us why he is subject to sore throat! And what we should do about it. In like manner the causes of earache, bad posture, and frequent colds, may be discovered and proper treatment given. It may be possible in the light of modern medical science to find even the cause of Grandpa's rheumatism. In olden times, many people believed that disease was caused by bad spirits and witches, and they were more interested in who caused the illness than in any method of correction. Our ancestors carried charms to ward off disease. We remember the Asafetida bags hung from the children's necks. The Chinese build walls to keep bad Health is necessary to happiness, now, and in the future. spirits away and the Blacks of Africa still depend upon witch doctors.
Modern science can teach us what to do if we would be well and happy. 'We must substitute knowledge for superstition.
Prevention is greater than cure, and right living, cleanliness and sanitation are the true bulwarks against disease. "To cure is the voice of the past, to prevent, the divine whisper of today." Had we lived in the Fourteenth Century our expectancy of life would have been but twenty years. The average length of life was so short, that as late as the time of Napoleon it was only thirty-five years. Today, life expectancy has been increased to nearly sixty years, and our children may still enjoy a further increase. It is not that adults take better care of themselves now than in olden times, that the span of life has been so extended, but rather the fact that more babies are saved at birth and children better safeguarded in infancy.
Science and medical education have not only lengthened the number of years of life for the vast majority of human beings, but have also taken away the fear of pain and many of the discomforts and handicaps of disease. The crippled child now has a chance, and the blind are made to see and the lame to walk. The first human beings were deeply concerned with their health; the history of medicine forms an interesting chapter in the story of the world's progress.
Moses gave the LESSON DEPARTMENT Children of Israel some very definite rules governing the sick and those, "Thou shalt nots,' form an excellent guide to health and sanitation today. Jesus, the divine healer, spent much time blessing and "healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people." The ancient Egyptian priests were very proficient in the care of the sick and taught the Jews what they -knew of Hygiene. The Greeks were outstanding among ancient people, for their knowledge of the care of the human body.
They developed some trained physicians and surgeons, who taught not only the benefits to health, which come from a strong body, but also that health is the royal road to beauty. The Romans established baths at most of the Thermal Springs in Europe to promote health and cleanliness. The remains of these healing stations still exist.
Surgical and dental instruments have been found among the ruins of Pompeii rather similar to some which are being used in many hospitals today. Ancient Italy gave us great Anatomists whose descriptions of the structure of the human body are outstanding.
France contributed the great Pasteur, who taught that disease is caused by small organisms, too small to be seen by the unaided eye.
From him came the Pasteurization, or gentle heating of milk, to kill these organisms. And thus the lives of millions of babies have been saved.
England gave us Lord Lister, called the father of surgery, because he was the first to apply the methods. Of sterilization, which methods have made modern surgery possible. In like manner each of the countries of 507
Europe has made its special contribution to health and hygiene.
Medicine has advanced more in the last fifty years than in all the previous centuries of the life of civilized man, and the world is fast becoming a safer, freer, and happier place to live in. Smallpox, which once was a most dreaded disease, claiming the lives of great numbers of people?even many Kings and Queens of Europe ?now is almost a thing of the past. The Plague, which many times swept over Europe and Asia, killed millions of people. The death cart was once heard in the streets of all the great cities, with the cry of, "bring out your dead.'"' Now Cholera is limited to only a few cases in the largest of the port cities of India and China.
Before the light of modern science, Yellow Fever, Typhoid, Malaria, and many other diseases have almost disappeared.
Today we are protected by many health agencies.
Since the World War, an international health organization exists, and assists health officers with local problems. We have organizations for the prevention of Tuberculosis and the study of Cancer; we have our great hospitals and infirmaries, well-trained doctors and sympathetic and intelligent nurses. At no time in the history of the world have disease and death had so many enemies. As individuals, we each have our contribution to make to this great epoch of progress. Our environment is such that we cannot live for ourselves alone?we must inform ourselves about the rules of health and sanitation?we must report diseases to the proper source and we must have the physical defects of our children corrected?we must 508 give more intelligent care to our sick at home and learn when to call the doctor.
Early diagnosis may save life, and frequent examinations are imperative. A mere increase in knowledge is not enough to safeguard health and prevent disease. The knowledge must be interpreted, accepted, and practised by the people.
Steering our ship of health for the right port, requires that we chart. Our course thoughtfully.
Health is a matter of knowledge, plus discipline. We must know what to do, and then do it. It has been found that mental progress and physical fitness tend to go together?children who rank high mentally are, in general, enjoying excellent health.
When a person is in good health, his whole body is in fine working order. He feels full of life and vigor, and radiates cheerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fulness. A man's ability to accept life's reverses depends largely upon his state of health.
Health is a greater boon than wealth, and happiness depends primarily upon it. As John Galsworthy wrote, "Substitute health and happiness for wealth, as a world ideal, and translate that new ideal into action by education from babyhood up. The intelligent cooperation of the public is the all-powerful weapon against disease. The common things in life are the things that are often the least understood. For the purpose of a better understanding of some of the common enemies of health and as a reminder of facts which may have been forgotten, these necessarily brief and elementary lessons on health and home nursing follow.