[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: A Kleinman]

Wait By Bertha A. Kleinman Mismated?who shall judge beyond the veil, Where lives misshapen and misspent are scored, When dross shall fall away and error fail And only Beauty triumph in the Lord! When loveliness shall claim its own at last, And truth of yours shall search for truth of mine, When into discard all the sorry past Shall slip away and leave the chaste design. Mismated?nay, for only Love endures, And in the splendor of the tapestry, Where skein of mine is blent with skein of yours, No discord shall disturb the harmony. The veil is drawn. Beyond the Sunset Gate Perfection lies. Strive yet awhile and WAIT. From an Ogden
Kitchen to Fifth Avenue 
By Cora Carver Ritchie THE business world had gone mad with a nightmare of failures.
Stabilized business concerns, controlled for scores of years by efficient men, tottered and fell. Men's hearts were numbed by the unusual conditions.
Courage seemed a word of the dim past. The world lost all sense of values. Manufacturers, east and west in every country of the world, felt the depression. The cry came from big houses everywhere, "We need no more help.
There is no business.
This depression has killed our trade. We will not buy because we cannot sell."
Into this picture of gloomy grays, came the remarkable words of Ada Quinn, founder, owner and manager of the Kathleen Quinn Wholesale Garment Co., located at Ogden, Utah. "Yes, I need expert help! We are rushed beyond capacity. We run extra night shifts to try to keep orders filled.'' In answer to long distance phone calls she said, 'No, I cannot promise any more orders ahead. You will have to wait your turn."
Just seven years ago Ada Quinn, housewife, mother and social welfare worker decided she would like to go into business for herself. She didn't know or care particularly what kind of business. Her big problem at that time was to find work for women, especially widows. She wanted to put into effect the theory that real social welfare work comes through helping others to help themselves. She had made rugs, quilts, aprons, etc., in the Relief Society. Why not make aprons to sell? She says, "I set myself to work to learn the art of buying materials and making aprons for sale purposes. I had only five dollars so I bought a few yards of gingham and a few spools of thread and started out. I made four different lots of aprons before I sold any. I picked them to pieces time and time again before I was satisfied. I was so tired I sent my little boy to town with them. I had my first thrill when the manager of a large store in Ogden took them and ordered eleven dozen more." WITH her five dollars, her idea, one family sewing machine and her will to work, she was launched on her business career.
From that moment success was hers.
Difficulties were to be met on all sides, but she possessed unlimited courage.
Orders for fifty dozen aprons came next. She bought another sewing machine and called in more women. She laughed as she spoke of her early experience. "I bought an old electric motor and attached it to my machine.
Every time we tried to hurry, off flew that old motor. "Then my kitchen became too small and I moved into a fourroomed shack that stood in my back yard."
Orders kept increasing.
Other business houses began to notice her. She declared her first big scare came when other houses tried to put her out.
When she refused they threatened her saying, "We will push you to the wall." Her friends became alarmed and tried to get her to sell out. Her husband, who had aided her in many ways, coaxed her to \ 452 give up her business. Her business friends said, "Sell now before they get you.
Save what you have." But Mrs.
Quinn was the daughter of frugal-fighting pioneers and was on the battle-field of business to stay or die. She realized that she lacked business education and experience, but she says, "I knew the men who were trying to copy and put me out were only men in a woman's game, so I knew I had a good fighting chance. She decided to enlarge her business and get greater net returns by buying direct from wholesalers, so she took a trip to the East.
Here she met her first big set back. The wholesalers refused to even show her samples.
They considered her business too small.
Determined to keep on, she bought from jobbers in such large quantities and kept her credit so good that she soon became well known. In just a few months time salesmen from the East and West called on Mrs.
Quinn to display their samples. Her business outgrew the four RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rooms, so she built a large brick factory.
Today it is a modern up-todate, well lighted, well ventilated factory, a veritable bee-hive of happy busy workers, turning thousands of yards of bright colored prints and laces, tape, braids, voiles, etc., into the now famous Katheleen Quinn House Dresses and Aprons. She fills orders not only in eleven dozens or fifty dozens, but three thousand dozens at a time. Her aprons are sold in the largest stores in America and as far as QUINN FACTORY, 1927
Panama. She has no salesman. She and her daughter, Katheleen, do all the buying and selling, drafting patterns, and managing the office help, and training the girls and seamstresses. MRS. QUINN maintains a staff of designers and drafters, but she oversees everything. In fact, the Quinn Factory is a woman's business. She can do any part of the work herself from the discreet, hard business deals with buyers, to the tiniest, daintiest seam work.