THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS.
JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD
President First Counselor Second. Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND:: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vou. XXI AUGUST, 1934 No. 8 EDITORIAL Cleanse the Movies OR a long time there have been sporadic efforts to cleanse the movies. Now a concerted effort is being made that is causing the movie producers to tremble, it is reported. Twenty million Catholics are called upon by their leaders to pledge themselves to not attend any motion pictures except those shown in homes and Catholic institutions. No member of the "Legion of Decency" will go to a motion picture theater until the producers run only clean pictures. It is said that many of the motion picture theater owners would be glad to eliminate objectionable films but claim they are helpless under the block-booking system, which compels them to take the bad with the good. Many Protestants and Jewish leaders have endorsed the campaign, and it is said that it may be taken up by all creeds and be extended throughout the world. The Literary Digest says, "It is estimated that the average weekly attendance at motion-picture theaters in this country is 77,000,000 people, of whom 23,000,000 are under twenty-one. If all Catholics join the Legion of Decency, and adhere to its solemn pledge, Hollywood will be touched to the quick? in the cash register, which, say Catholic leaders, is the only place it can be touched. Producers who believe in the starkest realism for the screen will have a little lesson in realism themselves." Adolph Zukor, head of the Paramount, says, "Never before in the history of the industry has there been such an effort to clean house from within as now." It will be a wonderful attainment if this campaign succeeds, so that this popular form of recreation will be cleansed and such objectionable films as have been shown for many years will cease to appear in any theater. Editor Manager assistant heneeens Mary Connelly Kimball