Visiting eaeher IT lessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 46—"And Now, My Beloved Son, Notwithstanding Their [The Nephites] Hardness, Let Us Labor Diligently; For If We Should Cease to Labor, We Should Be Brought Under Condemnation; For We Have a Labor to Perform Whilst in This Tabernacle of Clay That We May Conquer the Enemy of All Righteousness and Rest Our Souls in the Kingdom of God" (Moroni 9:6). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 5, 1957 Objective: To remind us that we as individuals must never cease laboring to bring souls to Christ. T is well for each of us to bear in mind that we do have a labor to perform while here in mortality, and to realize what that labor is. We are not here to drift aimlessly with the tide of circumstance, for there is purpose in our existence. We are on earth for two specific reasons: to work out our individual salvation — to "conquer the enemy of all righteousness" as Mormon states, and as individuals to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Church of Jesus Christ embodies a great missionary system. The truth of the gospel must be offered to all the world, and each of us has an obligation to do all in his power to contribute to this effort. Not all Church members receive formal missionary calls, but, nevertheless, all can and should participate in this vital work of spreading the gospel. One stake has instituted a project whereby the Church members contact their nonmember friends and inquire how much they know of our Church principles, and ask if they would be Page 842 interested in knowing more. It was found that nearly fifty per cent of those questioned said they were interested in learning more. Brigham Young said:... There is neither man or woman in this Church who is not on a mission. That mission will last as long as they live, and it is to do good, to promote righteousness, to teach the principles of truth, and to prevail upon themselves and everybody around them to live those principles that they may obtain eternal life (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322). There are different types of missionary work: among them, that which is accomplished by the influence of good example; that done through formal missionary labors; that which is done by discussion with friends and neighbors during day by day association, and others. Mormon brings out an important point concerning the teaching of the gospel. Though some people seem unreceptive to the gospel, we should not feel justified in discontinuing our efforts in their behalf, else we ourselves may come under LESSON DEPARTMENT condemnation. Individual personalities and backgrounds differ widely and some people cannot accept the gospel as readily as others. Some may have been prejudiced against the Church by the poor example of a Church member or have been given false information. Neverthe- 843 less, it is our responsibility to continue to persuade with patience and love. Let us use every noble means at our command to bring souls unto the Lord. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D. & C. 18:10). Work Mlecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at