LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
EMOTIONAL PROBLEMSPHILIP AND CLARENCE
The emotional life of early childhood is an important field of thought and research among the students of mental hygiene. The emotional experiences of infancy and childhood control, to a great extent, the attitudes and behavior of adult life. Childhood fears, doubts, anxieties, angers and despairs, not only upset the child during the period of the emotion, but are often the beginnings of unwholesome emotional attitudes or patterns. Much has been written and said regarding the relative importance of heredity and environment in the development of the individual. It is not the purpose of this discussion to revive the question, but merely to point out that much conduct attributed to heredity is really traceable to the early emotional environment of the child.
That children are born with certain physical and mental equipment is generally accepted. That the degree of health and mentality are important factors in determining successful social adjustment is also recognized; but the possession or lack of health and mentality offer no full explanation for the conduct of individuals. Persons of normal physical and mental development present a variety of pictures. In the same family there may be business failures and successes; there may be sad, melancholy characters, and happy, cheerful one; there may be quarrelsome, selfish, disagreeable persons, and generous, good-natured ones. The explanation of these various types of behavior and attitudes is found largely in the emotional life of the individual.
It is true there are certain inherent trends that may be considered inherited patterns of conduct. Pugnacity, or curiosity, or fear may be one of the dominant instincts of an individual, and, as such, may be considered one of the predispositions of conduct. But these trends, even if assumed to be of inherited origin, are not fixed and unchangeable. They may be developed, inhibited or modified by the controlling factors in the environment. The conversion of such instinctive, hereditary trends to wholesome modes of habitual response should be the aim of child training in the home, and the main objective of education.
Psychiatrists state that it is not difficult to show that an individual's behavior toward his fellow beings depends mostly on his early relations towards his parents. If a child is given too much attention and affection, he develops too great a dependence on his parents and may never learn to compete successfully with his playmates in school and in the adult world of affairs. He develops an exaggerated opinion of his importance, and never gains the power to gain independence from the parental ties. This is especially a danger in a home where there is an only child, and the parents lavish their attention and love on the one boy or girl. The picture of such a coddled child is a familiar one, and his inability to break away from the "mother's apron strings" expresses his weakness and futility.
The child who is criticized and corrected constantly also develops unwholesome emotional patterns. His constant sense of failure, and his repeated humiliations soon make of him a bundle of fears and repressions. Not wishing to expose himself to further humiliations, he unconsciously refrains from new trials and new experiences. The quiet, timid person, who is regarded as a little stupid by his family and schoolmates, may be a bright, normal person, afraid to express himself because of painful childhood experiences.
An unhappy home also leaves its mark on the developing child. Scenes between parents, undue anger, and general domestic infelicity cause the child to experience anger, fear, hatred, etc. He unconsciously takes sides in a family quarrel and develops an unwholesome antagonism toward one parent, which will express itself toward that parent and the sex represented all through life.
Emotional experiences, which are as much a part of the child's environment as the physical environment, are extremely important in modifying his instinctive trends and in molding wholesome patterns of conduct. Experiences which give a child an exaggerated sense of his importance, such as pampering during illness, or too much attention by solicitous parents, give him wrong attitudes to face the world. Experiences which humiliate him, which give him a feeling of inferiority tend to frustrate normal expression and development. Experiences of sorrow and unhappiness may color a child's life with somber colors or may develop an unwholesome attitude toward persons or institutions that represent, to him, the causes of the unhappiness.
The boy Philip is an example of the harm over-solicitous parents can do. He was a six-year-old boy, well physically and normal intellectually, but he was the victim of severe headaches that would attack him at any time. A history of the family attitude toward him when he had his first headache attack reveals the cause of their recurrence. He had observed the attention that was bestowed upon his mother when she had an attack of headache. The suggestibility of childhood made it only natural that he should be similarly ill, and when he was rewarded with the satisfaction of like attentions and concern, the pleasant experience became a frequent one. Philip did not lie consciously about his headaches. It is the unconscious that provided him with the mechanism for receiving the desired attention. The headaches and nausea were real, but the cause of them was not a physical but a psychical one. Such unconsciously simulated illnesses are not uncommon, and when the desire to gain some end or to escape some unpleasant experience can not be satisfied in a normal way, the unconscious mind devises abnormal means of attaining the desired end. Physical manifestations of pain and illness, which seem very real to the individual, may have no physical basis but are mechanisms of gaining certain ends not consciously recognized by the individual. These physical manifestations induced by some unconscious motive are termed "hysteria." Just as Philip became the victim of headaches to gain attention, other persons will induce nausea, fainting, deafness, paralysis, etc., to gain some unconscious desire. That these mechanisms become habitual with some persons is quite apparent. The really healthy child, who develops illness when crossed, or thwarted, or corrected, is developing unwholesome mental habits. The use of ill health as a tool to gain any end should be discouraged. The treatment, as in the case of Philip, is to give the person an insight into his unconscious motives, and to make the use of illness ineffective. If the person does not gain the attention, or the visit to the picture show, or the new shoes, or whatever may be the end he is trying to gain, he will abandon the mechanism of illness as a futile one. Encouraged by securing the desired end, he may become a victim of a series of illnesses, that will make wholesome, normal, physical and mental development impossible.
Clarence, another six-year-old boy, was also the victim of parental lack of understanding of emotional problems of childhood. He was the youngest of four children and was considered slow and backward by his parents. He talked very little, was shy, and stubborn. His shyness and his family's criticism of him made a vicious circle. The more he was criticized the less power he had to express himself. He became unresponsive, shutting out the entire outer world which had brought him humiliation and unhappiness. The story of the treatment is enlightening, for the moment that he discovered someone thought well of him and believed in him, he found courage and a desire to express himself. When the teasing at home was discontinued, he entirely broke away from the shackles of fear and shame that had kept him bound.
Clarence represents an extreme case, but he typifies the experience of the child who is made to feel inferior. If the child really has some mental or physical handicap, of which he naturally is sensitive, he should be given every opportunity to find expression and the satisfaction of successes to overcome his feeling of inferiority. But not only handicapped children are made victims of a sense of inferiority, normal children by unwise treatment can be given this same discouraging, stultifying feeling of helplessness and uselessness. Criticism, "teasing," and parental severity can make a child afraid to express himself. Severe parents may have "good children," in the sense that they are quiet and unobtrusive, but these "good" children may be frustrated in their normal development by the fear of family criticism. They may become shy, and reticent, and never develop their real powers and possibilities. They become afraid of the experiences that stimulate expression and growth, just as Clarence became the speechless, reticent victim of his humiliations.
Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 185-192.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. What is meant by inherent trends of behavior?
2. Show how early emotional experiences may change or modify these instinctive trends.
3. How do over-solicitous parents often hinder the child's development?
4. Why is an only child in danger of developing unwholesome attitudes?
5. What is the danger of too much criticism of children?
6. How does quarrelling in the home affect the children?
7. What was the cause of Philip's headaches? How were they treated?
8. How should manifestations of illness, which have no physical bases, be treated?
9. Why was Clarence considered stupid?
10. How was he freed from his feeling of inferiority?
Salt Lake Costume Co. DEALERS IN MASQUERADE COSTUMES Play Books, Operas, Operettas, Toupees, Masks, Carnival Goods Women in Utah have been progressive and shown their place to leadership both local and National. For that reason we feel sure our service and costumes will appeal to you. JOHN HANSEN, Pres. And Mgr.