[Vol14 | January 1927 | Sequence: 18a | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for March - Lesson I: Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons for March

LESSON I

Theology and Testimony

(First Week in March)

WOMEN OF THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIMES

In an article entitled "The Bible's Greatest Women," by Bruce Barton, appearing in Collier's, The National Weekly, for March 27, 1926, we have the results of a vote cast by 10,000 preachers. They are:

1. Eve.
2. Ruth (who had the highest vote next to Mary, the mother of Jesus.)
3. Hannah, the devoted mother.
4. The one woman whom the Bible calls great.
5. Esther.

The remaining five are as follows:
6. Mary, the mother of Jesus, (for whom practically every vote was cast).
7. Mary of Magdala.
8. The Sisters of Bethany.
9. The Woman of Samaria.
10. The widow who gave the mites.

Taking the judgment of the preachers for what it is worth, and thanking Bruce Barton for his contributions, which may be read with profit, we shall attempt to form an acquaintance with the women of the Dispensation of the Meridian of Times.

We are at once in harmony with the modern divines in naming Mary the Mother of Jesus as the greatest woman. Here was a mission of higher privilege, if not of greater responsibility, than that of any other woman. She was to bear, care for, teach, and train the Son of God, the "beloved" Son of God, the "Only Begotten" of the Father.

The Virgin

Her childhood life is shrouded in obscurity. That she grew up in Nazareth seems certain, but as a virgin she was one of the promises of the ages. She was proclaimed in prophecy. (See Isaiah 7:14.) She was seen by the gift of seership. (See I Nephi 11:15-20.) She is an ideal for the best of art. She is the subject of enduring literature. The following from the pen of Lew Wallace, in Ben Hur, and copied by Professor Willard Done in Women of the Bible is illustrative of the tribute paid to her by writers:

"She was not more than fifteen. Her form, voice, and manner belonged to the period of transition from girlhood. Her face was perfectly oval, her complexion more pale than fair. The nose was faultless; the lips, slightly parted, were full and ripe, giving to the lines of the mouth warmth, tenderness, and trust; the eyes were blue and large, and shaded by drooping lids and long lashes; and, in harmony with all, a flood of golden hair, in the style permitted to Jewish brides, fell unconfined down her back to the pillion on which she sat. The throat and neck had the downy softness sometimes seen, which leaves the artist in doubt whether it is an effect of contour or color. To these charms of feature and person were added others, an indefinable air of purity which only the soul can impart, and of abstraction natural to such as think much of things impalatable. Often, with trembling lips, she raised her eyes to heaven, itself not more deeply blue; often she crossed her hands upon her breast, as in adoration and prayer; often she raised her head like one listening eagerly for a calling voice. Now and then, midst his slow utterance, Joseph turned to look at her, and, catching the expression kindling her face with light, forgot his theme, and with bowed head, wondering, plodded on." (pp. 157-8.)

From Carpenter's World Travels we include a description of Nazareth that will give some idea of its natural beauty, which is similar in all important details to what it was in the time of Christ:

"Nazareth by moonlight is wonderfully peaceful. At sunset all business stops, and within an hour or so afterward everyone is in bed. There are few places that seem so far from the strife of the world. Business is swallowed up in the beauties of nature. * * * The sunsets are surpassingly beautiful. The other night the golden beams of the sinking sun seemed to form a halo over this the home of our Savior. There were many white clouds in the sky, which changed first to rose and then to gold, the color growing stronger and stronger, until the whole west was one blaze of fire and molten copper."

It is certain that the well, or spring, in the center of the town is the one from which Mary drew water with the other women of Nazareth. We include Mr. Carpenter's description of this spring:

"In the center of the town is Mary's Well, or, as it is sometimes called, Jesus' Spring, or Gabriel's Spring. This is undoubtedly authentic, for it is the only spring or watering place Nazareth now possesses or ever has possessed. It is therefore certain that the child Jesus and the Virgin frequented it, and that Mary came here daily for water. This is a fountain rather than a well. The water gushes forth in two streams into a stone basin, whence it flows into a stone-inclosed pool. There are always women with water jars about it, and the scenes of today are probably very much like those of Christ's time."

As a betrothed maiden, Mary the mother of Jesus knew what it was to have the implicit confidence of a just man. She had the experience of being at once innocent in the eyes of the God she worshipped, and guilty in the eyes of the man she loved. She was the recipient of high-minded mercy from a righteous man, and the miraculous vindication of a just God.

The circumstances of her being taken by Joseph as his wife must have placed him in her mind as a divinely appointed guardian and leader and companion.

The Mother

The Babe of Bethlehem, the "Only Begotten" of God, was but one of several children born and mothered by Mary, the mother of Jesus. From the reading of Mark 6:3 we are led to think of her as the maternal head of a family, several sons and daughters.

To some minds, the thought that Mary could be the mother of the direct Son of God, the "Only Begotten," and still remain a woman seems almost sacrilege, but such was the case.

She had the joys and sorrows of a mortal mother. Her first born was not all divine; to think of him as such is to disregard the mother in his make-up; to hold that he was perfect would be to declare the perfection of both of his parents. When a boy he chose to absent himself from his parents in a way that caused them grief, three days of torturous anxiety and when his mother brought before him the parental side of the picture, he left off his discussion with the Jewish divines and went home with his parents. Whether the thought or emotion provoked his action, it seems evident that Mary asserted the rights of a mother to put the mother's side of a problem up to a boy and that most ideal of all boys, responded in ideal conduct.

Her motherhood was of a type that could not eliminate anxiety, even though the boy could not appreciate that anxiety. She recognized the rearing of Jesus as a sacred trust and did not feel justified in leaving his care to his father alone, even though she knew him to be the great protector and director of all, her solicitude never deserted her offspring.

She even showed anxiety at entertainments. She followed him on his missionary tours. She stood at the cross and heard him say, "It is finished."

As a mother, Mary was no less ideal than as a virgin; she was incomparable.

The Woman

The most elect of women. Among the intelligences, if not to be chosen as a ruler, she was chosen to be the mother, the teacher, and the trainer of the supreme leader of men.

While motherhood was the culmination of her greatness, behind that motherhood was a great individual, a personality of greatness, and added to that great spiritual personality was the heritage of a noble ancestry. The Biblical genealogies of Jesus, recorded in Matthew 1 and Luke 3, fail to show her royal descent but that descent was proclaimed in the salutation of the angel Gabriel when he declared that her Son should inherit the throne of his father David. (See Luke 1:32.) Jesus could not be the son of David on his father's side, the declaration was a divine recognition of Mary's descent from David. When appealed to as the son of David for help, Jesus recognized his high grade eugenic inheritance. (See Matthew 9:27-30, also Jesus the Christ, p. 86.)

The fact that Jesus addressed his mother as woman, has been a subject of some discussion. One thing is certain in this matter: the Christ who loved his father better than he loved his own life could but use the titles of greatest respect when addressing the woman of his father's choice. (John 2:4; John 19:26.)

Many times Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. (See Cruden's Concordance "Son of Man.") Looked at from a human point of view and believing that he had not a human father, one is forced to the conclusion that Son of Man meant Son of the men who were the ancestors of his mother. God was his father but Adam and Noah and Abraham were his grandfathers through his mother.

There is, however, another view as to his use of the title Son of Man. It is the view that recognizes God the Father of Jesus as a perfected Man, and that its use by Jesus was in line with his life of humility among men and high esteem before God. One can scarcely think of a higher appreciation of a father by a son than the recognition of and admiration for the progress made by the former.

Without making a decision as to the objective of the use of the term the "Son of Man," we may not be able to decide, but we may safely decide that the Christ reverenced his mother and worshipped his Father. The greatness of the One is incomprehensible, and the greatness of the other is beyond comparison. The one progressed with a perfect manhood to becoming God, and the other miraculously became the mother of the Son of God and remained a woman still, the greatest of all women.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. Are we estranged or drawn nearer to Jesus by studying him as human, in part?
2. What did a betrothal mean to Mary and Joseph?
3. Explain the expression "put her away privily." Matt. 1:19. (See Jesus the Christ, pp. 83-84.)
4. What is the evidence that Mary the mother of Jesus bore and reared children other than the Son of God?
5. In the light of Luke 1:32, was God, the Father, eugenically careful in selecting the mother for his "Only Begotten?"
6. Name five of the greatest events in the life of Mary the mother of Jesus.
7. From what point of view was the domestic task of Mary different from, and greater than, that of any other mother?