12 EDITORIAL A Testimony of the Divinity of Jesus Christ Last Summer we had as a guest in our state, a gentleman who possessed a good deal of information upon a number of subjects. He was often right 'and his ideals were often very worthwhile, but on one vital point he was seriously wrong. He advised that our missionaries cease bearing testimony and turn to proclaiming the doctrine of eternal progression, stating that testimony bearing is "suggestive," and that it will not appeal to thoughtful persons?persons of intellectual standing. If there were no genuine dollars in the world there could be no bogus ones, so that we admit at the outset that there may be such a thing as a bogus testimony, which is in and of itself an admission that there must be genuine testimonies. We care nothing about the bogus sort, for they have no more power to save than the bogus dollar has power to purchase, but we are interested in a living testimony of the divinity of Christ, and in a testimony of the restoration of his gospel in these latter days. Any intimation that persons who bear testimony in soberness and truth are in any way inferior to others, even though those EDITORIAL 613 others be recognized as "intellectuals" is strikingly absurd. To begin with, Jesus himself acknowledged his divinity when he said to Peter, who declared he was the Christ, the Son of the living God, "Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Today the far-reaching influence and work of no other born of woman stands out as does the influence and work of Jesus of Nazareth. We take it that we do not need to argue to support the intellectuality of the great missionary apostle Paul. Paul was recorganized as a scholar, and yet so potent is his testimony, as it has come ringing down the ages, that we almost forget that he was a scholar, remembering most of all the testimony which he bore. Recently an article appeared in The Forum from Senator Reed Smoot. The editor's introduction to the article refers to Senator Smoot as a captain of finance. He is truly that, and has always been regarded by those who know him best as an expert business man. To quote from one writer, '"He is a man who literally eats figures." Yet, in appropriate places, and at appropriate times, Senator Smoot does not hesitate to bear testimony that he knows that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God. We take it that no responsible person would be so foolish as to intimate that the United States has as chairman of its Committee on Finance a man who is feebleminded. President Heber J. Grant who is at present presiding over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is valued by the adherents of the Church perhaps as much for the strong testimony which he bears as for any other contribution he makes to the wellbeing of his people. His is a testimony of sincerity and power, clean-cut and unequivocal, which is carried forward by a speaking voice of very unusual quality. That he regards not only his own testimony but the testimonies of the Latter-day Saints as fundamental, in the building of their faith and the saving of their souls, none can doubt who read this testimony borne by him two years ago in the October conference: "I rejoice that the Church of Jesus Christ is founded upon the first great vision that was enjoyed by the boy Joseph Smith over one hundred years ago. He declared that he saw two heavenly beings, whose glory and grandeur were beyond the power of man to describe, and that one of them addressed him and pointed to the other and said: 'This is my beloved Son, hear him.' There cannot be any doubt in the heart of a Latter-day Saint regarding Jesus Christ being the Son of the living God, because God himself introduced him to Joseph Smith. It is a fundamental truth of the Church of 'Jesus Christ in our day that 
 Joseph Smith was and is and ever will be a prophet of the living God; and with Joseph Smith recognized as a prophet of God, and the. Testimony in our hearts of that fact, there will never be any schism, so to speak, in the Church of Christ. Any individual who does not acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, has no business to be associated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This Church is, as I read to you it should be a marvelous work and a wonder. There is nothing like it in all the world, because Jesus Christ, the Son of God established it, and is the head of it; because Jesus Christ manifested himself to the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery, and to others; and because God, in answer to prayer, has given to people all over the wide world, where the gospel has gone, 'an individual knowledge and 'testimony regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged." The Women Hold the Fort In the October issue of The Forum is a very cleverly written story entitled, "The Bootlegging Woman." The story represents a woman who is breaking the law by manufacturing intoxicants and selling them. The word goes out that liquor may be obtained at her house-boat on the Duwamish river, and so officers are detailed to make the search. The officers find the house-boat very neat, and are surprised when they enter it, realizing as they do that it is not the sort of house in which one would expect to find liquor. They go through and fird nothing. The longer they search the more infuriated they become. At last they tear up the floor, hammer holes in the walls, and break to pieces the picture of her mother, to whom she is devoted. She is sure when the officers enter they will not be able to discover the whereabouts of the liquor, and so she sits quietly crocheting. Finally when the search is abandoned, and the officers retire, the woman goes out and cuts a few cords that lead into the water. At the end of each of these cords is a quart of "hooch." By severing the strings the bottles are let into the river and their contents at once destroyed. The story represents the woman as one who has had a severe struggle to make a living, and who is now, for the first time, through the sale of illicit liquor, enjoying a little ease. We are glad that Kate Mullen, its author, gives us a woman who in the end would rather live a life restricted so far as material comforts are concerned, than break the law. Any other outcome would be a libel on the position occupied by the women of the United States on this important question. EDITORIAL  615 Recently we had a visit from Dr. Valeria H. Parker, president of the National Council of Women of the United States. In an address before the Women's Christian Temperance Union of the state, she expressed herself as being happy to declare that the thirty-five affiliated organizations of the Council stand for prohibition. Many men who declared themselves in favor of woman suffrage did it because they believed that women would support moral issues. It is a matter of the keenest satisfaction to women that their trust has not been misplaced, and that prohibition is receiving such abundant and whole-hearted support from the organized women of the United States.