when mentally tested was found to make an excellent grade. But she began to fail in her school work, to be filled with discontent, to be lazy at school and at 'home. She was very sure of all her opinions; she was critical of her parents and family, and when she was scolded or opposed in any way there was a family scene with cross words and quarreling, ending usually in a violent storm of tears. Criticism and scolding did not seem to change Martha's behavior. She became more and more indolent, doing nothing at school or at home. Martha was not a mean child, nor a lazy one. She had reached a point in life that most adolescents meet. Her ideals and opinions seemed more important to her than the opinions of her parents. She wanted to earn money, to support herself, to 'be independent. Because of her lack of experience, she could not realize her own limitations at earning money, or the responsibility of making any decisions. She had the natural desire to reach out for experience and independence, but she wished to move too fast. Her parents' treatment, of scolding, of constantly criticizing, was not assisting her to achieve the gradual growth that would give her an increasing sense of independence.. After she had been studied at the child guidance clinic, the parents were advised how best to help Martha through this difficult period. As a result the family did not criticise her so constantly. She was given praise wherever possible. Her ideas 'N GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 645 and interests were considered quietly, and she was given an opportunity to make decisions. She was also given the responsibility of home tasks as a test of her ability to enter the business world. When she found that she could leave school if she wished, when she was made to feel that she was not compelled to do things, she soon found school had its interests and advantages. Her school work soon improved. She became helpful and happy in the home 'circle. In this discussion of Martha our author emphasizes the point that persons are not lazy. Laziness is a symptom of some underlying causes that often are not well understood by parents and teachers. Laziness may be a symptom of weak jntelligence or of emotional upsets or instabilities. These conditions are subject to change and modification depending on physical defects or nutritional difficulties or glandular abnormalities, and on wunpleasant experiences that cause emotional instability. That intellectual weakness may be the cause of so-called laziness is obvious, especially among children. The borderline and dull-normal children are usually kept in the same grades and assigned the work in the school-room, and in spite of the effort and desire on their part to succeed, the tasks are often beyond their comprehension. In order to forestall habits of inactivity, these children should be given opportunity to do things which they are capable of doing. Their handicap should not be increased by 'habits of idleness and by the discouragement and hopelessness that accompany constant frustration of successful activity. Any physical defect that renders an individual less alert may be the real cause of a child's inactivity. A child with nutritional inadequacy is easily fatigued, and may be unable to perform the required work. ' This nutritional inadequacy may be caused by under-nourishment, over-nourishment, lack of vitamines, etc. A tubercular condition, or the after-effects of typhoid fever, pneumonia and other serious illnesses also increase fatigability. ? A glandular disturbance such as an under-active or overactive thyroid gland may affect the conduct of an individual to a great extent. A person with an under-active thyroid gland is sluggish and easily tired. One with an over-active gland is nervous and excitable. In either case the performance of the school work or other tasks is greatly impaired. These more apparent and better understood causes of fatigue and inactivity perhaps need little elaboration. The difficulty is that physical defects, and malnourishment, and infection, and glandular upsets are not always recognized by parents. Once the diagnosis has been made, most parents see the need for treat- 
 ment and for special recognition of the child's difficulties. Early and frequent and thorough physical examinations should be made of all children where possible. One symptom that should be a warning of the need of medical examination is that of chronic weariness, of inactivity, of apathy. It is unjust and unfair to call a child "lazy" when he may be in need of new diet, of eyeglasses, or of medication by an expert physician. The emotional experiences that cause a person to become indifferent, careless, discouraged and "lazy" are many. It may be that because of some scolding, some failure, some embarrassing incident that the child has an unconscious fear of failing again. In order to protect his pride or ego from further pain and hurts, he unconsciously refrains from further new attempts. Such an unconscious process is called a "defense mechanism." The wunconscious is defending the ego from the pain of further failure. The mechanism used to avoid such painful experience may take many forms. An attitude of apathy and indifference is a common defense mechanism. Such a defense is unwholesome for it blocks the individual's ability to undertake new tasks. _ A child whose emotional problems are thus blocking further development should be assisted in releasing this tied-up energy. He should not be scolded, or abused, or driven. This only adds to his fear of expression. He should be given confidence to win some small successes; be given approbation for his achievements. He should be helped to enjoy the stimulating and pleasurable experience of accomplishing some desired end.: Reference: Challenge of Childhood Dt. Ira S. Wile, pages 171-182.. Foto} Questions and Problems 1. Why is the period of adolescence an important one in the development of the individual? 2. Why did Martha wish to leave school? 3. How was she helped to develop independence gradually? 4. Why is the passing from dependence of childhood to independence of adulthood necessary? Why must it be gradual? 5. What is laziness? 6. What are some of the causes. Of laziness? 7. Why does repeated failure make persons fear further attempts? 8. What is a "defense meee ismial 9. How can energies, blocked by fear of failure, be released! Salt Lake Costume Co. DEALERS IN MASQUERADE COSTUMES Play Books, Operas, Operettas, Toupees, Masks, Carnival Goods Women in Utah have been progressive and shown their place to leadership. Both local and Na''ional. For that reason we feel sure our service and costumes will appeal to you. JOHN HANSEN, Pres. And Mer. 35 West Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 999 Send for Catalog If you Only Knew how wonderful you feel after drinking Radioactive Water for a reasonable length of time, you would get a Lifetime Radium Water Jar today. The value of radioactivity is so well established from a health standpoint that the following statistics, compiled by the internationally-famous authority?Dr. Sigmund Saubermann, Berlin, Germany,?will convince the most skeptical of the beneficial healing and curative powers of radioactivity. No. Of BeneNot DISEASES TREATED Cases Cured fited Benefited Old age, Not Benefited DISEASES TREATED Cases Cured fited Benefited
Old age, without symptoms of disease 214 000 188 26
Anemia Ill 71 40 00
Asthma (Bronchial) 37 00 31 6
Apoplexy 81 00 70 11
Arterio-Sclerosis 305 00 294 11
Arthritis 1291 906 219 166
Bronchitis "Acute" 167 83 55 29
Bronchitis "Chronic" ? 33 21 2 10
Cystitis "Chronic" : 21 11 00 10
Diabetes 201 00 147 52
Eczema 59 22 15 22
Gastro-enteritis "Chronic" 41 8 26 ? 7
Gout "Acute" 52 00 42 10
Gout "Uric Acid Diathesis" 411 114 265 32
Glycosuria 162 162 000 000
Conditions of weakness after influenza
and other diseases 439 328 79 32
Laryngitis 12 00 11
Lumbago 221 112 86 23
Metritis "Chronic" 197 000 127 70
Myocarditis 14 00 11 3
Nephritis "Chronic Parenchymatous" 144 000 130 14
Nephritis "Interstitial" 87 00 53 34
Neuralgia "Neuritis" 235 113 115 7
Neurasthenia 358 228 129 1
Parametritis "Perimetritis" 115 45 40 30
Peritonitis "Chronic" > 34 22 11
Polyarthritis 219 116 100 3
Polyarthritis "Chronic Rheumatic" 125 110 7 8
Rheumatism 780 543 203 34
Sciatica .... 280 .
195 59 26
Tabes Dorsalis "Lancinating Pain" 66 00 33 33
TOTAL 6512 3210 2588 712 Stop experimenting and buy a Lifetime Radium Water Jar. MANDIS SALES COMPANY 
 MAIN WAS. 1477 SALT LAKE CITY N When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "Department Store Salt Lake City Oh Christmas Store EVERYTHING FOR EVERYBODY Write Vera Keene, Our Personal Shopper For Suggestions..INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK Best in the Market Will Last a Life Time, 36 Glasses in Each Tray RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED. Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used ' in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver., SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered. Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City  ABE $7,500  Travel and Ag Pedestrian Accident Policy one year one Dollar. FLIRTING WITH DANGER Why is there so much talk of "Safety First" if it be not true that dangers multiply with each passing year? We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. Accidents happen every day. For your own protection and the protection of your family Insure today. Che Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine They Rank First! Just as the L. D. S. Relief Society ranks first in field of charity, just so does the Utah Loud speaker rank first in the field of clarity! UTAH CONE SPEAKER Made in Salt Lake City, Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Und