LOVE ASPECT OF THE ATONEMENT 599
The Son had planned the play, in which he, the hero of the great drama, must give to each and all of humanity more than they could give to him. They should become helpless captives of death; he should ransom and give new life to all; he should suffer and die and descend into the pit. "And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." (John 17:5.) In all his life of loving sacrifice, the atonement hero not only taught but walked, with mercy and justice wed, back to the presence of his Father where he unlocked the prison door and opened a gospel dispensation. (I Peter 3:18-20.) (Also Vision of President Joseph F. Smith, Improvement Era.) The Christ was to be in hell but not of it, and all this for love, first, of his Father; second, of humanity; third, of his mission, wanting nothing more. That he neither sought for nor thought of other recompense is made clear in his prayer report to his Father. (John 17.) He paid the race death-debt, that man might be, in the life to come, an immortal, living soul, which is more than he was in the life before, for then he was but a living spirit. He gave his body and shed his blood that man might have a body new with spirit blood within its veins, and then besides, he lived an earth life which not only taught the way, but made the path back from spiritual death to spiritual life, which spiritual life is the enjoyable presence of him with whom Adam dwelt in Eden; and thus the Christ, the hero, became the one ideal of the ages. The love-winning power of the atonement glows in the expression: "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me." (John 12:32.) There is prophecy as well as edict in the two great commandments: "And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these." (Mark 12:30-31.) The last personal injunction of the great redeemer to his apostles was a love message. "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you." (John 13:34.) One of his final declarations pointed to the carry-over of his affection into the world beyond when he said: "In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also." (John 14:2-3.) These statements seem to encompass all love from the call of Divinity to the coo of the dove; parallel in scope with the reach of the atonement, from the abode of the Gods to the prison of the condemned.
When Christmas Came
(A true story of early days in Utah)
Mae M. McAllister
I knew it was nearly dawn. I seemed to be trying to sleep and yet trying to wake; the semi-stupor of an un-get-at-able problem repeatedly roused me, and then sent me drowsily off again in a mystifying, unattainable quest. My goal assumed a form of beauty; and I ran and ran, until exhaustion chained my feet. Then it became a grotesque shape, calling and beckoning to me with a finger of gold, until in my madness, I toiled on and on—I would have it for my own—this thing that, in its hysteria and worth, at once, both held and repulsed me. Languor over-powered me. I tried to give up the chase and rest; but like a phantom of delight, it flitted far beyond the vision I pursued.
I awoke perplexed and weary to a steady rustling of rain fall. The day following in the wake of my dream seemed dark and foreboding, everything was hopelessly bedraggled and forlorn. Heavy black clouds hid the sun, the birds refused even a twitter, except for a disconsolate hoot-owl who at measured intervals rolled forth a mournful call. Thus half the morning had worn away, when Mrs. Simpson, a neighbor woman, ran in "to see how the packing was progressing," and, incidentally to air her interest about our intention of stopping off in Salt Lake City. The "Mormons" were intensely notorious in the East at that period. "Mrs. Olson said that you were going to stop off in Salt Lake City, but I didn't believe it. Oh, are you, really? Well, you'd better not let one of those 'Mormon' polygamists get his eye on you, or your husband will have to join to get even; but, perhaps you are going for the purpose of joining them. Mrs. Olson said she had her suspicions, but then, of course, I know you wouldn't stoop to anything like that."
She paused for my answer, and for breath. "We are planning on stopping over a day or two," I said. "Mr. Davis has a brother there and wants to see him." "What! A brother in Salt Lake City? But then, of course, he may be a missionary to the wicked 'Mormons'—oh,—oh, a 'Mormon' himself, how can you bear the disgrace?" Every word was a sword point; I at once censured myself for having, in an unguarded minute, admitted this reproach upon my husband's family, and began, apologetically: "He was just
WHEN CHRISTMAS CAME 601
a boy when he joined the 'Mormons.' It was while we were still living in Denmark, before Mr. Davis and I were married. Out of curiosity John went to a street meeting held by two 'Mormon' elders; and once under their influence, 'tis said, you are bound to join them. He was almost ready to leave for America before he let his parents know that he was a member of that despised Church. His father disowned him and his mother shed bucketsfull of tears. No worse disgrace could have been brought upon the family. His father and mother have never forgiven him, and none of the family have seen him since. At first none of the family would answer his letters, but he kept on writing just the same. Then his first child died, and Olef answered the letter that brought the news. Since then they have written once or twice a year."
"But, a 'Mormon' relative," put in Mrs. Simpson! "How could you marry Mr. Davis after his brother had disgraced the family?" "I loved Mr. Davis, and he was not to blame for his brother's mistake. We have always felt the disgrace keenly, but Olef says he still loves him as a brother, though he detests his views. I have no desire to come in contact with the 'Mormons', but it seems the only thing we can do, to stop over a few days when we are going right through the town where his brother lives."
Mrs. Simpson rose to go. Her parting shaft added color to my many misgivings concerning our stopover in the 'Mormon" city. "Well, from what they say about Salt Lake City, it is as bad as Chinatown for its secret passages and private rooms. You'd better watch that a sliding door doesn't close forever between you and your husband while you are in the 'city of many wives'."
The next Sunday the minister's sermon was all for our benefit. He discussed the "Mormons;" their superstitious religion, their poverty, their immorality, their evil influence over those who came in contact with them. It was evident that Mrs. Simpson had reported her visit with all necessary embellishments. I felt that every eye in the congregation was on us, and that we were deserving of criticism. I tried that evening to persuade my husband to visit his brother after we had settled in California, for it was to California that our minds were turned, with a view of making our home. He was as opposed to the "Mormons" as I, but he knew nothing of the superstitious fears that were haunting both my sleeping and waking hours. "Pass right through the town where John lives without stopping?" and a look of surprised disappointment filled his eyes. "You wouldn't want to hurt him so, mama, even if you despise his religion. Haven't we always tried to show the true Christian


spirit? Would you feel best to do it that way?" In spite of my fears and misgivings, I felt justly rebuked. I agreed with him that he was right, and that John had been sufficiently punished with the scorn of his family. He assured me that our stay in Salt Lake would be short, perhaps only a week; and I exacted a promise from him, that while we were in the city he would allow no one to talk religion with him. The day had worn heavily on me, and these two promises gave some assurance, some relief.
Many friends saw us off on the train, a week later, when we left Wisconsin, and were really sincere in wishing us "God speed." Mrs. Simpson couldn't resist one last word, "Write and tell us all about the 'Mormons'." Our trip over new country might have been a pleasant one except that my morbid fears kept me unstrung and ill at ease. My husband urged me repeatedly to tell him what was wrong, but I insisted that it was nothing—perhaps the preparations for the trip had tired me more than I had guessed. When our train chugged into Salt Lake City, I sincerely wished that we were going to pass through without stopping an instant; but with my husband and two children, soon stood in the crowd at the depot. I looked around, "Why, I thought all the people here were 'Mormons'," I said to Olef, "but there are lots of good, honest looking people in this crowd. Can it be possible that other people would live here among the 'Mormons'?" Just then John merged from the crowd, caught my husband in his arms, and we were hurried away to his home. I kept on the alert for any surprises, or any efforts of this despised sect to involve us in its strange views. The first day or two we were there, John took us around the city, and to call on some of his special friends. I was quite disappointed with the intelligence of this isolated people; with the development they were making, the permanency with which they built their desert country, with the atmosphere of culture and education that surrounded them, but in spite of it all, I still suspected their morals, their whole religious code. On the third day, I was suddenly seized with mortal fear, when John's wife invited me to attend Relief Society meeting with her. My mental recording apparatus ticked off like electricity—they had showed us the best of everything, done everything to assure us; but now it had come—this was to be the kidnapping Mrs. Simpson had warned me against. I offered every excuse—but the true one, but persistent Emma overruled them all; even my husband insisted that I go. I suspected men in ambush with every step, but my searching eyes went unrewarded, and we reached the hall with no unusual occurrence.
WHEN CHRISTMAS CAME 603
I don't know what I expected to see when I went inside—but I didn't see it, everything seemed outwardly calm and peaceful; inwardly, I was all turmoil, but sat quietly waiting my doom. Meeting began with a song. Then one of the women arose to pray. What was happening—a sudden calm filled my breast, I listened with amazement—I understood every word of her most wonderful prayer, though I knew only the Danish language and she prayed in English. I was alarmed at this incident, and determined to get away from the city at once lest the influence felt during the prayer should do for me just what the "Mormon's" influence was purported to do.
That evening I related the circumstances to my husband, pleading that we be off for California immediately. He listened in silence, but made no reply to my remarks, but after a moment commented on minor happenings of the day. Fear that his attitude was changing gripped my heart. The next day, Gloy came running in, followed by the other children, "Mama, let's not go to California yet, let's stay for the conference and the big celebration." And the others joined in, "There are going to be fire-crackers, and races, and picnics and everything." "Let's stay for it, mama, please." Even this childish prattle seemed to portend evil. "Hush, hush!" I begged, "we cannot stay, we must be on our way." And I sent them out to their play. Then Emma took up their cause, urging that a few days more or less could make no difference to our Western trip. I tried to defend myself, but burst into tears and left the room. My apprehensions were distracting, how did I know but that the celebration was to culminate in my separation from my husband. Again I broached the subject of leaving to Olef. "Don't you think we'd better decide to stay for the conference, and the celebration that is to follow right after, Mama?" he said leisurely, "It will really make no difference to us; and the children and everyone else seem so anxious for us to remain." This was too much for the tension I had sustained ever since reaching the city, and I flashed back at him, "Why, I believe you are becoming converted. You tolerate everything these people do. You promised me we'd stay only a week, and now you want to break your promise. I have suffered this humiliation long enough—nothing under heaven can prevent me from leaving at the end of the week. A week is a month under some conditions," and I broke into tears.
Then my ever kind husband tried to soothe me; he had thought I might enjoy staying, but if I desired, we should certainly leave on Tuesday.


But Monday morning, John was called out of town on urgent business and would not be back until Wednesday. He wanted Olef to stay until he returned. "We have been separated so long, and you are making your visit so short, that I feel I just must be here to see you off. Can't you possibly wait until Thursday?" After we went to bed that night, Olef, very tactfully put the question up to me. I felt it small to refuse him, but it seemed I could not consent. We talked pro and con until Olef fell asleep. I lay for a long time, wretchedly studying the problem: why should I still suspect these people when conditions seemed so fair among them, and they had given every proof of sincerity—surely I was hard in my heart—but then Mrs. Simpson's stinging words together with the strangeness of my dream, flooded my mind and drove from it all reasoning. "What is the difference to John and Olef?" I complained, "they have said their good-bys, at most they could be together only a few hours more—and what if John shouldn't get back when he expected, besides all the packing was done, and everything would have to be upset again—and anyway, wasn't it a frame-up?" I couldn't shake the fear of treachery. The clock struck one. In a determined moment, I roused Olef, and said, "I've tried, dear, oh, so hard, but I can't decide to stay." "All right, little woman, it is to be just as you wish," and in two minutes, he was again snoring. His kindness shamed me, but my fears throttled my better impulses and, struggling with these feelings, I sank into the same dilemma of restless sleep and dreaming I had experienced that morning just before leaving Wisconsin. It repeated itself, almost with perfect exactness, bringing weariness of body and of brain. I was awakened, I know not how, and found myself at the children's bed. "Gloy," I said, "Gloy, dear, what is the matter?" She threw two feverish arms around my neck, my face seemed to scorch against hers. "Darling, what is it?" "Oh, mama, I'm burning up!" I called my husband, and made a light. We did everything we knew for her, but though we had thought it just a cold, she seemed to grow worse with each heart beat, and daylight urged us to send for a doctor—a "Mormon" doctor—the thought almost choked me. The doctor came and pronounced it typhoid. He seemed competent, and most solicitous for her well-being, and was able to make her easier; but the fever raged on, and I thought of my rash statement, "Nothing under heaven can keep me from leaving when the week is up." Could this be reproof? And when days passed with never a moment's improvement, our trip was postponed indefinitely. We rented a house and moved to ourselves that we might have absolute quiet.
WHEN CHRISTMAS CAME 605
Everybody in the neighborhood, yes, everybody in the whole town, did all in their power for our help and comfort. They cooked and brought meals to us, did our washing and ironing, watched at the sick-bed, and showed every conceivable kindness, saying that it was the work of the Relief Society to comfort those in need. I squirmed under the humiliation of accepting favors from the "Mormons", but they were just the people who gave favors without realizing it, and before one could object. The days wore into weeks and the weeks into months, and our fair little eight-year-old, lay like a will-of-the-wisp, more of another world than this; all medical aid and loving care seemed futile. John and Emma begged and begged us to have our child administered to; the bishop and his counselors, and many other friends urged that there was no harm in testing it out. Even the doctor tried to persuade us, but we were firm as adamant; it was sheer folly, why resort to it? Why mock our own human intelligence just because we knew we must give her up. The little pale face grew thinner, and the frail form more languid. She was far past being delirious; much of the time she was wholly unconscious, she had not spoken a word or scarcely opened her eyes for more than a week. The doctor had given her up, and still she lingered on. One day as I sat watching for the breath that must bear her beyond our reach, I caught a movement of her lips, and leaned over eagerly to catch her faint whisper. My heart ceased its regular beat as I listened, "Mama, if you'll have the good men pray for me, I'll get well," she paused and I waited for I knew she had not finished. "if you don't, I'll die." I could make no response. I motioned to my husband and we retired to a far corner of the room, where I repeated her words to him. "It's no use, I know that, this administration," I said, "but it is her last request, and we cannot let her die with an ungranted wish on her lips." My husband surprised me. "I have been wondering for two or three days, if we ought not to have her administered to." There was no time for discussion; it was no moment for rebellion; the bishop and his counselors were called in. It was only to satisfy her dying wish that I had considered having them, and in my heart they were unwelcome. The child lay as in death, her lips almost as colorless as her white drawn face, I knew that nothing could save her. The elders performed the administration, and waited, but she lay as silent as death. They conversed quietly among themselves, and I could feel that they wanted me to leave the room, but I would not yield. Then the bishop spoke, "We are not going to leave this house until our prayers are heard in heaven, and the restoration of this child shall be a testimony to her parents of the truth of the doctrines of Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints." A half hour later, they asked us all to kneel by the bed, and they again laid their hands on her head. When they had finished, her eyes moved, and by holding a mirror over her mouth, we could tell that she was breathing. Even such slight signs of life gave us encouragement; still I did not acknowledge any efficacy in faith, any power in prayer, and could find no peace in my heart. Three weeks passed, registering slight improvement, our little girl was still too weak to speak, and we wondered how her life could hang thus by a thread. One night, Mr. Davis had lain down for a few minutes and I was alone by the bedside, when I noticed that she had gone into convulsions. I ran into the room where Olef was, "Papa, quick! Go for the doctor, Gloy is dying!" He grabbed his coat and ran to the door, but unseen hands held him back. The power was as real as physical human strength; he could not combat it, looking on, I realized his struggle. He came back to me and said, "Let's kneel at her bed like the 'Mormons' do, and pray, I've been prompted many times to do this, but feared you would think I was being converted; yet, I am convinced that we, as well as the elders, must bow in the meekness of faith, or our child will never recover." We knelt in prayer, and when I listened to my husband's first prayer at the bedside of our dying daughter, I knew that I must yet be scourged until I could humble myself before God. Little Glory was resting before we rose to our feet; tears filled our eyes when she opened hers and recognized us. "Do you feel better, dear?" her father asked. "Yes, papa," and she smiled. Her words were like the ringing of chimes. From that time on, we did not dare to neglect praying for her, and slowly but surely, her strength came back; but still we showed no intention of accepting these new-fangled doctrines. At length she began to talk of the other children, and notice other things that had interested her before she took sick; as she grew tired, she always ran into a sort of delirium. One day during - one of these talkative moods, the "big celebration" flashed into her mind, and she began plying me with questions. "Didn't they have the big celebration? Why didn't we go? I didn't see any fire-crackers," and then—"when will it be Christmas?" "In about two months," I answered—"Just two months from today," I added, as I glanced at the calendar. "We will be in California for Christmas,' I went on—and my thoughts ran on WHEN CHRISTMAS CAME 607 a tangent as to how faté works her way. It has been over three months since we left Wisconsin with the. View of being in California in three weeks. But Glory interrupted my reverie. "Tl be glad when Christmas comes." '"Will you, my dear? So will I. What are you going to do on Christmas?" "Oh, I'm going to be baptized. I'm going to be a 'Mormon', so when I get sick I can be prayed for and get well." I smiled at her earnestness, and said, "Oh, are you?" But in my heart I was secretly glad that we would be far from Salt ' Lake City when Christmas came, where she could forget her foolish notion. For, though I had learned to like Salt Lake City, and my prejudice against the "Mormons" had cleared away, I was beginning almost to mistrust myself in this atmosphere. Gloy rattled on, "Yes, and so are you and papa and Ernest we'll all be 'Mormons'. Her childish prattle did not worry me now as it once had done, especially since we were already beginning to shape our plans to be on our way once more, but I redoubled my force to urge a speedy departure. But it seemed that the fates were not content with the havoc they had wrought in our plans, and the dread typhoid confined our boy to his bed; and two or three days later, I, too, was stricken with the fever, and lay many days in a stupor of semi-consciousness. Whenever it merged into delirium, I seemed, repeatedly, to see Gloy going down to the water's edge, on Christmas morning, then I would beg my husband to "let us start for California in the morning." Then always the delirium played a trick of diversion, and I begged to be baptized. When the fever was gone and I was rational, I seemed to recall, vaguely, and with embarrassment, what I had said, but no one ever gave me a clue of proof, no matter how I questioned. Oy Days lengthened into weeks, and the elders came often to our home; and when in time, myself and little boy were again well, we knew that it was only through the mercy ©: God. By this time, my heart was softened, as my husband's had long since been; and before we realized that we were fulfilling Glory's wish, we had set the Christmas Day for our baptisms. The day was white with snow, but clear and bright, the happiest Christmas we had ever known. John and Emma were overjoyed, and the whole city seemed one family, rejoicing over our conversion. We had been lashed, literally lashed into the fold, but we were sincere and our hearts were glowing with the warmth of happiness. Every vestige of hardness and bitterness had, gone from them, and we were ready to say, "Thy will be done." It was f 
 then that we knew, in truth, that the (Christmas is a day ot "Peace on earth, good will toward men.” Our going to California, became only a visit, and that, years later. Olef had had the pleasure of two missions to Denmark and the supreme joy of converting both his father and his mother, who returned to Salt Lake City with him at the close of his second mission. The greatest peace and contentment that we have ever known has come through obeying the teachings of Christ, in being true Latter-day Saints.