[Vol52 | December 1965 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: 960 Birthday Congratulations]
DECEMBER  1965 
man,  and  a  man  that  he  has  a  claim 
upon  a  woman  in  the  resurrection;  it 
is  the  gospel  that  teaches  them  that, 
when  they  rise  from  the  tombs  in  the 
resurrection,  they  will  again  clasp 
hands,  be  reunited,  and  again  partici- 
pate in  that  glory  for  which  God  de- 
signed them  before  the  world  was. 
I  can  personally  testify  to  the 
influence  of  a  good  mother  and  a 
good  wife;  in  fact,  I  think  I  must 
be  somewhat  of  a  specialist  in 
this  matter  of  women;  I  had 
seven  sisters,  six  daughters,  one 
mother,  and  one  wife,  and  four- 
teen granddaughters,  and  some 
great  granddaughters.  I  speak, 
then,  from  experience  when  I  tell 
you  that  you  have  a  choice 
assignment;  you  are  favored  of 
the  Lord;  he  couldn't  be  every- 
where so  he  sent  you.  God  bless 
you  that  you  will  measure  up  to 
your  assignment. 
Now  I  know  that  some  of  you 
are  wondering  what  we  are  going 
to  say  to  the  men  about  this.  If 
you  will  come  to  the  Priesthood 
meeting  Saturday  night,  you  will 
know.  I,  for  one,  propose  to  hold 
up  to  the  men  the  grave  responsi- 
bilities that  rest  upon  any  man 
who  marries  a  woman,  who 
fathers  a  child,  who  holds  the 
Priesthood  that  he  may  honor  it 
and,  in  honoring  it,  may  honor 
God. 
We  commend  and  congratulate 
this  great  organization  of  women. 
You  have  a  world-wide  reputa- 
tion and  responsibility.  We  are 
proud  of  your  outstanding 
leaders.  They  are  honored  and  re- 
spected by  women's  organizations 
throughout  the  world.  We  pray 
the  Lord's  blessing  upon  them 
and  upon  you  loyal  and  efficient 
stake  and  mission  officers  and- 
upon  all  members  of  this  powerful 
and  efficient  arm  of  the  Church. 
As  we  sing  together,  "Home, 
Sweet  Home,"  let  us  resolve  to  go 
home  and  have  our  regular  home 
night,  study  the  lessons  that  have 
been  prepared,  and  lead  our 
children  in  a  circle  of  prayer,  that 
they  may  come  to  know  God  and 
to  bask  in  the  sunlight  of  his 
love,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 
On  a  Snowy  Evening 
Linda  Clarke 
Softly,  like  the  twilight  hour, 
Snow  dims  the  church  and  grounds. 
Gently  in  a  song  of  hope 
An  organed  hymn   resounds. 
From  an  open  chapel  door 
A  beam  divides  the  night 
And  tracks  there,  by  the  faithful  made, 
Are  etchings  on  the  white. 
Pray  for  those  not  citadeled, 
Far  from  the  light's  warm  span, 
Alone  upon  the  fringe  of  night 
Cowled  in  the  words  of  man. 
890

Send  me  your  flakes  of  snow, 
Pile  them  high  upon  fluffy  pile! 
Under  their  softness  my  beauty  will  grow. 
Just  let  me  rest  a  little  while.  .  .  . 
Wind, 
Wind, 
Whisper  a  bedtime  story, 
To  my  mountains,   my  valleys,   my  everything, 
While  we  sleep  and  dream  of  the  rampant  glory 
We'll  bring  to  the  world  come  spring. 
Hal    Rumel

Luciie  P.  Peterson  Appointed  to  the  General  Board 
Julia   Rae  P.   Keith 
Our  family  rejoiced  at  Moth- 
er's (Luciie  P.  Peterson's)  ap- 
pointment to  the  Relief  Society 
General  Board,  September  29, 
1965.  She  has  been  training 
for  such  a  position  all  her  life. 
Mother  was  born  in  Ogden, 
Utah.  Her  father,  Chauncey 
Parry,  died  when  she  was  four 
years  old,  and  her  mother, 
Julia  E.  Hutchens  Parry,  reared 
her  seven  children,  teaching 
them  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel. Grandmother  spent  thirty 
years  as  ward  and  stake  Relief 
Society  president  in  the  North 
Weber  Stake. 
When  thirteen  years  old, 
Mother's  Church  service  began. 
She  has  been  president  of  the 
ward  Primary,  YWMIA,  Relief 
Society,  and  stake  Relief  So- 
ciety. 
My  father,  M.  Blaine  Peter- 
son, and  mother  were  married 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  during  the  depression  years.    He  enrolled   in   law 
school  in  Washington,  D.  C,  and  when  they  returned  to  Utah  they  had  a  law 
degree  and  two  young  children. 
Father  has  had  Mother's  willing  support  in  all  his  Church  and  civic  activities. 
During  the  years  he  spent  in  the  United  States  Congress,  as  Representative  of 
the  First  Congressional  District  of  Utah,  she  had  many  interesting  experiences. 
As  president  of  the  Chevy  Chase  Ward  Relief  Society,  in  Maryland,  she  worked 
closely  with  the  missionaries. 
Our  home  has  been  one  of  love  and  understanding.  My  brother,  Major 
Richard  B.,  who  married  Joan  Hinckley  Willes,  is  a  radiologist  in  the  Army 
Hospital  in  Landstuhl,  Germany.  I  attended  Brigham  Young  University,  and 
married  Bill  G.  Keith  in  the  temple.  Thomas  P.,  who  is  attending  Weber 
State  College,  served  in  the  North  German  Mission  as  assistant  to  the  mission 
president.    MaryLu  is  a  sophomore  at  Brigham  Young  University. 
Mother  attended  Weber  College,  Utah  State  University,  and  studied  a  year 
in  New  York.  She  served  as  secretary  to  the  President,  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
and  the  Alumni  Association  of  Weber  College.  She  is  presently  a  member  of 
the  Board  of  Trustees  of  Weber  State  College,  and  is  on  the  Coordinating 
Council  of  Higher  Education  of  Utah.  She  and  Father  are  active  on  the 
Parents  Committee  of  Brigham  Young  University. 
May  our  Heavenly  Father  continue  to  bless  her  in  her  new  calling. 
892