[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 905 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman sitting on top of a globe/Earth]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman sitting on top of a globe/Earth]

Iphigene Ochs (Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger), seventy-three, is the daughter of Adolph Ochs, who bought and began publishing the New York Times in 1896. She is matriarch of her family circle and is on the Board of Directors. Her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, is president and publisher. She is a powerful influence in keeping the Times up to the standards maintained by her father: vast knowledge in every field, encyclopedic coverage of material, accuracy, and the impossibility of anybody's buying its influence.

Miss Betty Skelton of Detroit, Michigan, set a new international record for women's land speed in driving a car last September on the Bonneville Salt Flats near Salt Lake City. Her record was 277.62 miles per hour.

Miss Phyllis Steorts of Salt Lake City, is president of an international organization known as Executive Secretaries, Inc.

Mrs. Gwen Cafritz is one of the first 250 people to carry "on the person" alarms. The new invention, planned to help fight crime, beginning in Washington, D.C., is an F.M. radio transmitter that can be carried in pocketbook or briefcase to send a message to a private monitoring service, which, in turn, informs the police. At the same time it sounds an audible alarm to frighten away the criminal. Mrs. Cafritz, a Washington hostess, was a recent robbery victim.

Mrs. Sue Weiss worked with Dr. Melvin Selzer (both from the University of Michigan) in a study to discover the proportion of chronic alcoholics among drivers responsible for fatal accidents on the road. The results indicate that the percentage is almost fifty.

Caroline Field, nationally known for her work in children's libraries, is head of the children's library in Philadelphia. She has brought to her city, and to the country at large, an awareness of children's needs for good literature, and of what constitutes high-quality reading for children.

Miss Marguerite Piazza is a beautiful and popular opera star who believes that one must have versatility to succeed today. She is praised for both singing and acting. She also dances and sings jazz.

Helen Waite Papashvily has written a lively biography of Louisa May Alcott for children from ten to fourteen years of age. Those familiar with Miss Alcott's autobiographical novel Little Women will note with enjoyment the relationship between the facts of Miss Alcott's life and the fictional incidents which developed from them in the novel.

Joan Ritchie, nationally famous folk singer, who specializes in ballads of the Appalachian region, also plays the dulcimer, an instrument of ancient origin.

905
