[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 951 | Lesson | Literature — The Place of Suffering in Life — Part II Bruce | B. Clark]
efer to concentrate on only one or two or three of the four. A valuable hour could, for example, be spent studying "Michael" alone. Each leader may choose the selections she feels she can if we respond to them maturely. Teach most effectively for her group. To bring the problem covered by this lesson sharply into focus, I recall an incident still vivid in my memory that occurred in 1944, over twenty years ago. A neighbor who was a prominent leader in the valley where I was living, stood up in fast and testimony meeting one Sunday to say he had no fear for his handsome young son, who was on his way overseas to participate in the World War II invasion of Europe. "He has always been a good son," said the man, "honest and clean and Church-active. He has just returned from an honorable mission and has been through the temple. I know the Lord will protect him and bring him back to us." Three weeks later the son was dead, killed in mid-air in a paratroop invasion before he even had time to: set foot on French soil. And the father became a bitter, beaten man! So grief-stricken was he, so shattered in his faith, that he felt the Lord had totally deserted 95) DECEMBER 1965 him and all the world was against him. Moreover, he never recovered from the shock. He withdrew from Church activity, became sullen and brooding in attitude, and died a few years later, still overwhelmed and embittered by the grief he could not comprehend. Such deaths do occur, and we need to be prepared to accept them without collapse of faith and character, even when, in our limited mortal vision, we may not fully understand them. "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord'' As explored more fully on pages 394-396 of the text, the problem exposed by this incident and by Gerard Manley Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord" should not be ignored. While it may be generally true that righteous people prosper in business and health, all of us also know that sometimes righteous people suffer all manner of earthly hardships and calamities. Business disaster sometimes overtakes the faithful, and the ravages of disease, plus the shock of sudden accidents, cut down saint as well as sinner, and sometimes in the vigor of youth as well as in the feebleness of age. Clean living is not a guarantee that one will never have problems, nor should we expect this. The very purpose of life is to strengthen character through meeting challenges. Moreover, life is everlasting, and the sufferings of mortality are not the same when viewed from the vantage-point of immortality. The rewards of righteous living are ultimately spiritual, not material. Righteousness will not guarantee man against tribulation, but it will fortify his spirit to meet whatever tribulations life 952 offers and to mature his character for the responsibilities of the eternal future. The great reward of righteous living, available to all, is not material prosperity and freedom from hardship, but spiritual peace of mind and the serenity that comes with a free conscience and a testimony of the truth. 'The Fly" "The Fly" by Katherine Mansfield is included in the text (see pp. 372-379) and in this month's lesson principally as a powerful, dramatic little story portraying a man who has an unhealthy reaction to grief. Instead of accepting the death of his son and adjusting to it with the passing of years, the man nurses his sorrow to keep it painfully alive so that the grief that once was genuine turns into sentimental self-pity. We, of course, admire a person who loves so deeply that the memory of a beloved one remains strong long after death has taken the one beloved. We can hardly admire the person, however, who wallows in self-pity and enjoys feeling sorry for himself as the old man in "The Fly" does.

[Literature — The Place of Suffering in Life — Part II Bruce B. Clark]

the literature leader chooses to teach this story, she should turn to Out. Of the Best Books, where it is printed in full with a detailed discussion. "'Boless" "Boless" by the great Russion author Maxim Gorky is also included in this month's lesson. Here our interest centers on the contrast between the huge, homely Polish woman Teresa and the smug, callous, preachy Pan Student. We are touched by the pathetic story of Teresa, that "mastadon in petticoats," because we are reminded that large and homely women have hearts just as tender, desires for love just as intense, loneliness just as deep, and capacity for companionship just as great as do dainty and pretty women. We are annoyed by the insensitivity, the bored callousness of Pan Student, who talks about the need for sympathy and understanding, but lacks genuine sympathy and understanding. Again, the literature leader who chooses to teach this story will find it with a full discussion on pages 386-393 of the text. '"'Michael'"' Because it is more easily available to readers who may not have a copy of the Relief Society literature text, William Wordsworth's great narrative poem "Michael" is given central discussion in this month's lesson. The poem is so famous that it can be found in almost any volume of Wordsworth's poems or of English romantic literature in almost any library. And it is included in full with a detailed discussion on pages 405-419 of Out of the Best Books. Most readers and critics agree that "Michael" is Wordsworth's greatest narrative poem and one of the finest short narrative poems of the world's literature. Also, it is an impressive study of the nature of suffering in human experience. Written in stately, dignified, even majestic blank verse, it tells a simple story but also a beautiful and powerful story. Indeed, so impressive is its simple tragic power for most readers that, once fully experienced, it will remain in the memLESSON DEPARTMENT ory forever, like an incident out of the Old Testament. "Michael" opens with a thirtynine-line introduction which sets the dignified, reverent tone of the poem and in which Wordsworth explains why he is writing it: that in a remote mountain valley which as a boy he knew, there is a "staggering heap of unhewn stones" around which centers an old and moving legend which he wishes to retell "for the delight of a few natural hearts." He then goes on to tell the story of the old shepherd Michael. Listen to the words of the poem: Upon the forest-side in Grasmere Vale There dwelt a Shepherd, Michael was his name; An old man, stout of heart, and strong of limb. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength: his mind was keen, Intense, and frugal, apt for all affairs, And in his shepherd's calling he was prompt And watchful more than ordinary men. Hence had he learned the meaning of all winds, Of blasts of every tone; and, oftentimes, When others heeded not, he heard the South Make subterraneous music, like the noise Of bagpipes on distant Highland hills. In every way Michael was noble and gocd, and, like Abraham of old, ne was blessed in his old age with a son named Luke, whom he loved deeply and with whom he formed a beautiful, gentle, profound companionship. But soon as Luke, full ten years old, could stand Against the mountain blasts; and to the heights, Not fearing toil, nor length of weary ways, 


 He with his Father daily went, and they Were as companions, why should I relate That objects which the Shepherd loved before Were dearer now? That from the Boy there came Feelings and emanations—things which were Light to the sun and music to the wind; And that the old Man's heart seemed born again? When the son was eighteen, and Michael eighty-four, financial difficulties pressed upon the family in the form of a "debt of honor." Long before the time Of which I speak, the Shepherd had been bound In surety for his brother's son, a man Of an industrious life, and ample means; But unforeseen misfortunes suddenly Had pressed upon him; and old Michael now Was summoned to discharge the forfeiture, A grievous penalty, but little less Than half his substance. After much discussion it was agreed that Luke should be sent to work for a distant kinsman to relieve the financial stress. Deciding to send him away was most difficult for Michael and his wife Isabel, for they loved the boy deeply. But their love for their land was equally great. And the only possibility for keeping the land as an inheritance for the son was to allow the son to be away for a few years, thus earning sufficient money to discharge the indebtedness and return to his parents and the land they all loved. So arrangements were made for his departure. But before the old father and the young son separated, Michael took Luke into the hills where 954 they laid the cornerstone of a sheepfold as a covenant of their faith in and devotion to each other. Michael assured Luke that at eighty-four he still was "strong and hale," and while Luke was gone he would use the pile of gathered stones to build the sheepfold and to do the other work now performed by the two together. He counseled his son: rT 3.. Lay now the cornerstone, As I requested; and hereafter, Luke, When thou art gone away, should evil men Be thy companions, think of me, my Son, And of this moment; hither turn thy thoughts, And God will strengthen thee: amid all fear And all temptation, Luke, I pray that thou May'st bear in mind the life thy Fathers lived, Who, being innocent, did for that cause Bestir them in good deeds. Now, fare thee well— When thou return'st, thou in this place wilt see A work which is not here: a covenant "Twill be between us; but, whatever fate Befall thee, I shall love thee to the last, And bear thy memory with me to the grave. —~—Then Michael and Luke separated. At first good reports came of the son, but months later Luke "began to slacken in his duty," and "in the dissolute city gave himself to evil courses: ignominy and shame fell on him, so that he was driven at last to seek a hiding-place beyond the seas." Old Michael was somewhat sustained in his grief by his deep love, for There is a comfort in the strength of love; "Twill make a thing endurable, which else Would overset the brain, or break the heart. But partly his love was, in very fact, responsible for his grief, for there is no grief more harsh than that of faith betrayed. Thus, bearing the burden of his sorrow, Michael went about his daily work suffering in silence, often sitting in numb loneliness at the site of the unfinished sheepfold, anguishedly disappointed in his erring son, but still loving him, even as God must feel for his erring earth children. I have conversed with more than one who well Remember the old Man, and what he was Years after he had heard this heavy news. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength. Among the rocks He went, and still looked up to sun and cloud, And listened to the wind; and, as before, Performed all kinds of labor for his sheep, And for the land, his small inheritance. And to that hollow dell from time to time Did he repair to build the Fold of which His flock had need. 'Tis not forgotten yet The pity which was then in every heart. For the old Man—and 'tis believed by all That many and many a day he thither went, And never lifted up a single stone. Now, says Wordsworth in the closing passage of the poem, many years have passed since Michael and his wife died. All that remains are the unhewn stones out of which the sheepfold was to be built—and the legend of the grand old man who bore his grief with such tragic dignity. It is a powerful and unforgetLESSON DEPARTMENT tably sad and beautiful story. In a way, although perhaps Wordsworth did not think of this, it is the Prodigal Son parable retold, but with the son not returning. Its ethical message is not only to parents who may suffer as Michael suffered, but also to children—and all of us are children—who may falter as Luke faltered, and who through the poem may be strengthened in our desire to fulfill the faith in us of those who love us. As one aspect of the story, note that old Michael becomes a greater, more heroic figure through his suffering. Suffering dignifies and deepens him. Someone has defined tragedy as the spectacle of a heroic figure suffering heroically. We admire as well as pity a character of tragic stature, even as Michael is. Wordsworth once said of himself, "A deep distress hath humanized my soul." Is there a kind of understanding, a largeness of the soul, which comes through personal suffering, and can come in no other way? Is there a majesty of the human spirit that becomes most clearly visible only in a moment of defeat and disaster? Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. What specific evidences are there in "The Fly" that the father's grief is unhealthy and self-pitying rather than healthy and mature? 2. What are the dangers, as suggested in "The Fly" and in Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord," of placing too much expectation in material rewards for righteous living rather than in spiritual rewards? 3. What specific evidences are there in "Boless" that Pan Student is not as genuinely sympathetic and understanding as he pretends to be? 


 4. Discuss how the dignified blanksuffering with the shallowness of verse language and form of "Micthe old man's in "The Fly." hael" are appropriate for the story 6. What qualities make "Michael" a that is told. Great piece of literature? Does it 5. Contrast the dignity of Michael's have weaknesses? * Note: CORRECT NUMBERING OF LITERATURE LESSONS The lesson "Growth Through Experience,' which was printed in the October issue of the Magazine, should have been numbered 11; and the lesson "The Place of Suffering in Life'—Part I, printed in the November Magazine, should have been No. 12. Under the Surface Ruth House l HAvE told my husband many times, as I cleaned the boys' room, that it would be ideal to have a manhole in the middle of the room. Twice a week, I would open the manhole and hose down the room. That way, I need never worry about what was precious enough to save, or what I could discard. One morning after the boys had cleaned and picked up in their room (which I secretly call '"'The Jungle"), I put them to work at various jobs while I went in to sweep, and as I surveyed "The Jungle," that morning, I sighed. There were stray socks under the bed, a bag of marbles on the window sill, and as I moved the bed, papers fell from underneath. I discovered a secret hiding place under the mattress; note papers under the rug, and a rock collection scattered on the dresser among an old Weekly Reader and some old tickets, still "lucky" to a child. And then I saw a paper slid under the dresser scarf, with the corner sticking out. I pulled it out and saw a half-written letter, put under there for safekeeping until it could be finished. And I read, "Dear Mother, I love you. Thank you for all the things you do for me. I will try to be a good boy today so I can grow up to be a missionary." I sat down on the edge of the bed and dabbed my eyes with my apron. Never again will I call it "The Jungle'; never again wish for a manhole. I will look under the surface and see the beauty of their belongings, and, yes, under their dirty faces and patches, too.

And perhaps I have been looking at my friends and neighbors in the wrong way, too. I'll look under the surface in my heart and my life, and you look under the surface at your home, and perhaps when we meet, we will all have more beauty in our hearts. 956 HAWAIIAN TOURS November 1965 February 1966 <—_> ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 <_ MEXICO Early Spring Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Shank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAFPFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah w BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 a> DESERET PFREws PREsS UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE b Ernest L. Glien Assistant Professor of English Brigham Young University Four Lectures EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.00 k * *& DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University Price $1.50 Available now from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 _ EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS 1965 CATALOG sent on request 957 SAN FRANCISCO or LOS ANGELES TOURS 5 Days $57.00 November 24-28 MEXICO XMAS TOUR 18 Days $218.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 Days via San Francisco $127.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 HAWAII FUN Jan. 11-23 13 Days $550.00 TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 E.

Enchant the meadow To move as a sea, Shifting each shadow Of fence and tree, Till the field runs over With flowing gold, And ships cruise the clover, Jewels in their hold. Tomorrow the willow Will be just a tree; But tonight make it hollow, A galleon for me. ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORAL ARRANGEMENTS Abide with Me—Madsen -.20 Come, Come, Ye Saints—Madsen...20 Come Ye Blessed of My Father.20 Come Ye Blessed—Scott.25 Create in Me a Clean Heart 26 Eternal Life ee 26 Eye Hath Not Seen -..--2. 2 God of All Nature — 0 00..0-22.25 Incline Your Ear - -------- 25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee.20 Lord, God of Our Fathers.- 26 Lord Is My Shepherd—Ryg.20 Lord's Prayer—Robertson 25 Peace I Leave with You.20 Prayer for Our Country -.-. 26 Voice in the Wilderness -.26 Gertiro Music Co 327 Broadway idaho Falls, idaho 83401 We can supply all the Music suggested for special numbers for the Theology, Social Science and Literature lessons. 958 Jumbo (12" x 151%') extra heavy ita COOKIE SHEET with FREE U and I Sugar Gingerbread Boy (or Girl) pattern, gingerbread and frosting recipes and colorful deteiee =f suggestions. U and I Sugar Cookie Sheet Offer P. O. Box "'A" - Seattle, Washington 98109 Check choice: ( 1 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheet and Gingerbread Boy Pattern. Enclose $1.00 and U & I label (J 2 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheets and Gingerbread Boy pattern, plus free nylon spatula (will not scratch aluminum). Enclose $2.00 and U & I label Name Please Print Street or RFD City State Zip Code Price subject to change without notice. Offer good only in U. S. A. (except where prohibited). Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. Offer expires Dec. 31, 1966. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM WITH YOUR ORDER. Our next vt party! With a beautiful tiered cake usin Most popular premium offer we've made repeated at your request. Pans in most wanted sizes, as shown. D Boy! You can dress up your next festive occasion these Muuis® PARTY CAKE PANS ever Four U and I Party Cake Pans P. O. Box 500, Manitowoc, Wisconsin Please send me the U and I Mirro Party Cake Pans. Enclose $1.00 and U & I label Street or RFD. City State Zip Code___ Offer expires December 31, 1966. Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. Price subject to change without notice. Offer good only in the U. S. A., and void in any territory where prohibited. Look for these offers on back of U and I Sugar "Special Offer" bags now at your grocers SSSCHSSSSSHeereeFeeesOseoeeeseseees 4 of, ff f i L 101