[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 911 | Home | Festive "Sand Bakels" for the Holidays | Hjordis Skollingsherg]
910 I I I I FESTIVE "SAND BAKELS" FOR THE HOLIDAYS Hjordis Skollingsberg Kearns North Stake, Utah As a feature of the Kearns North Stake, Utah, visiting teacher convention, the theme of "Around the World With Relief Society" was effectively presented by the sisters of the stake who were born outside the continental United States. Hjordis Skollingsberg, who was born in Norway, made some of her famous "Sand Bakels" for the refreshment table. The "Bakels" are tasty and very attractive. They have a special appeal for parties and for the holiday season. "SAND BAKELS" (Fancy Tarts) Preheat oven to 350° For crust: 2. Add: Mix: lc. And 2 tbsp. Butter 3c. And 3 tbsp. Flour 1 ce. Sugar (add more flour, if dough is too sticky) 1. Add: 1 egg 3. Add: 1 big tbsp. Heavy or whipping 1 tsp. Almond extract cream Beat well together Press dough into tart forms or tart tins (muffin tins or individual metal jello molds can be used) and bake. The dough should be about 4% to \% inch thick. Bake until golden brown. Fill with whipping cream. (In Denmark the tarts are filled with vanilla pudding.) Then put a layer of strawberries or strawberry jam, then a layer of whipping cream, and a cherry on top. Where? Ruth G. Rothe Where, oh, where Has the time gone? People wonder every day. Perhaps they should be told The truth, that— Time has slipped—AWAY! 911 or two to sit beside, Where Io ve and faith a bide, i ree, » ane he Chorus Stilled so And One Ss To lend a Sp Hal Rume! I I Fr _ rich Ir ariel A New Version of an Old Game Verda F. Burton Member, General Board of Relief Society (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 1965) Model: Dora Z. Fotheringham, Holladay Stake The skirt was made from an old sheet dyed orange, and decorated with brightcolored pockets cut with pinking scissors from scraps of printed material. (For directions, see continuation on page 931) 914 = =. ®. ' 3 ' ou - I ors 7 a Se eke EYE Ce ae ha ey eats ties TS EEE We o Hal Rumel aoe I '«? 5. Made by Susan S. Curtis, Bonneville Stake, and Jane N. Sheffield, Monument Park Stake. A graceful evergreen tree (pine, fir, spruce, juniper, cedar) sprayed a glistening white, and adorned from top to bottom (in the center), with a streamer of pink