[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 927 | Home | Red and Green for the Holiday Table 992586 "UInndneerr - Gtlhoew " S u r f aGclea s s R uantdh HRoeusisne Lamps Joy | N. Hulme]
Red and Green for the Holiday Table ee OR OT "sy i ae e nam by we. ~ a» =m Hal Rumel A lace tablecloth was placed over a green undercloth to make the effective ''groundwork'' for a festive design using holly and other greenery, accented with the deep red of carnations and apples (both real and artificial apples were used). Artificial cherries could be substituted for use in a similar design. The tall silver epergne, with matching serving dishes and candelabra (with red candles) make a pleasing harmony. A crystal or a milk glass epergne could be used effectively. Baskets of small slices of fruit cake and pecan rolls, wrapped in colored cellophane and tied with red and green ribbon were placed on the serving table, and were presented to the guests as favors. 927 nga pg * pene eae ccmmmee ""Inner-Glow'' Glass and Resin Lamps Joy N. Hulme Fiber-glass and Poly-paste Lamp made by Lila N. Blanchard Inner-glow Resin Lamps made by Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts "INNER-GLOW"" GLASS AND RESIN LAMPS (Instructions are for a small TV light — 4" diameter by 9" high. In Parentheses are sizes for hanging Inner-glow Resin Lamp The Mold consists of four Parts: (1) A wooden base approximately 10" x 10" x 4" with 14°" x y" Strips Of wood fastened around the edge. (2) A piece of rolled tin, aluminum, Or stainless steeI 814" x 15" (1114" x 19"; 1514" x 20") to form cylinder. (4) Two Pieces 10 mil Plastic film not affected by resin); one, (14" x 18"; 14" y 18"), to cover the inside of rolled metal. Selecting Glass Choose colors that wilf harmonize with or Provide an accent for the "; and table lamp base 6" x ig'"-). Fiber-glass and Poly-paste Lamp room in which you plan to use the lamps. Do not overlook Clear glass, which looks like Crystal, and is availCal insulators (from power Poles) are other sources of glass. If you plan to uS€ green in your lamp, remember that this color dominates when the light is On and use about half as much as you think you want. Preparing Glass Start with Clean glass and it before you try to break it. This is done Clean, it is best to wrap the glass in foil to prevent burning grease from Making 


 dark spots on it. Always keep glass covered when pounding; break it inside a paper bag or between lintless cloth on a hard surface. When pieces of the desired sizes are reached (dime to nickel sizes for small lamps; up to fiftycent size for large lamps) sift the "sand"' out with a course strainer or screen. You will need about four pounds (10; 13) of prepared glass. Place the glass in a strong shoe box and mix with an old spoon. Wash in ammonia - water (no soap) and dry thoroughly before using. Setting Up the Mold Cover the core by wrapping mylar tightly around it and secure the mylar with tape tabs. Remove the core and run a long piece of 34'' heavy-duty tape along the inside of the mylar tube. Remove tabs. Trim mylar so that only a small overlap remains. Replace on core. Roll the metal strip, overlapping the ends until the desired diameter 4" (514"; 6") is reached. Hold in place with tabs, and then fasten securely with three long overlapping strips of tape along the seam (these should be carried over the end and three or four inches to the inside of the cylinder). Put mylar inside and, making sure it fits tightly, secure with tabs on inside. Remove and fasten with strip of tape on outside. Remove tabs and replace in the mold. Place core near center of base. Place cylinder over it, keeping the seams at the back; adjust so that the thickness of the walls will be the same. All around. Place a pencil mark on the base where the front and side edges of the cylinder should be. Remove the cylinder. Pour melted paraffin into base around the core. Quickly place the cylinder into wax, matching it to the pencil marks. Let set until wax is hard. Pouring the Lamp Have all materials close at hand on newspaper or foil; the glass in a flat box with a spoon to your right; mold in front of you; resin, catalyst (the hardening agent for the resin); measuring cup (a peanut butter jar with measurements is good for this); mixing can (quart juice can), and stick for stirring 930 44" x 20" dowel or equivalent) to your left. Mix one pint of liquid resin with a short 14 oz. Of catalyst (or measure as indicated by instruction on product), and stir well. Pour into mold one or two cups at a time, depending on the size of the lamp. Stir glass and put it, a tablespoon at a time, all around the lamp, being extremely careful that the pieces do not slip between the mylar lining and the mold. Pack glass tightly by tapping with the stirring stick. Repeat until metal mold is full, making sure all the glass is covered with resin. As you near the top, mix and pour in less resin, so that you do not fill it too full. Let the lamp set at least 24 hours. Removing Mold Knock off the base by tapping with a hammer. Cut tape along the seam and peel the outer mold and mylar lining away. Holding lamp securely, remove the core by tapping with a hammer on top. Remember this piece is tapered and will come out only through the bottom. Clean up pieces of mold and save to be used again. The lamp is now ready for wiring. Wiring An electrician can do this for you or provide you with the materials to do it yourself. Only the sockets and globes will be mentioned here. The small lamp takes an intermediate socket and 5"" tube globe to fit it (25 watt). The hanging lamp will need to be drilled to accomodate a spider assembly for hanging. It needs a regular size socket and 5"' 40 watt globe. The table lamp uses a regular socket and 11" 40 watt globe to light the base. FIBERGLASS AND POLY-PASTE LAMPS Select papier-mache forms of the shape you wish from a hobby shop, or from your home (pasteboard cartons, beach balls, etc), or you can cut and combine the basic shapes in many ways. Lamps are made in as many sections as necessary for molds to come out (usually two). Do not forget you will have to replace the globe so leave an opening large enough. Dip the molds in melted paraffin until they are covered with at least two coats. After this has cooled, cover the outside surface with mold release (available at hobby shops). Cut fiberglass reinforcing material to fit the form, using wedge-shaped pieces to fit tapered shapes. Use rubber gloves or talcum powder if your skin is sensitive to the glass fiber. Mix a paper cupful of resin and over catalyze it (15 drops per ounce). With an old brush, paint this resin over the glass fiber, saturating it. Do this with all parts of the mold. Set on wax paper and let dry about one-half hour. At this time the resin should be in the gel stage, and you can clean off excess from the edges with scissors or a knife. When resin is dry, apply poly-paste (thickened resin). Color (with poly-dye) enough poly- "INNER-GLOW" GLASS AND RESIN LAMPS paste to do entire lamp as it is hard to match the color. Catalyze small quantities at a time as you use it. Spread poly-paste on the form and press in decorations as you do. These may be glass pieces, cast resin pieces, shells, marbles, plastic flowers, etc. Leave some large areas near the edges uncovered until after you have joined the pieces so the seam won't show. After the poly-paste is hard, carefully pry the forms away from the molds. Join the parts together with Poly-paste and finish the uncovered parts. Let dry completely before wiring. (If the materials for making the lamps described in this article are not available in local shops, they can be purchased either in person or by mail from the craft and hobby shops which advertise in The Relief Society Magazine.)! AM A FISH POND Verda F. Burton (Continued from Page 914) Directions: 1. Turn selvage up 1 inch around the bottom to thread wire for hoop. Measure 16 inches above, mark with ruler, and make a 1-inch tuck for the next hoop. 2. 3. Measure 12 inches above, and make a second l-inch tuck for upper hoop. 4. Cut for desired skirt length; make 20 darts 3 inches deep at waist, tapering to nothing at second tuck to make less bulk at waist. 5. Make a ll-inch hem around the top and thread with twill tape to tie at waist. 6. Sew on pockets, making sure you skip over tucks. 7. Sew up side and run wire through tucks. Rm, The girls will love to pay their money and choose a pocket from this old-fashioned oll. A clown suit, a companion to the doll, is fun for the boys' choice of pockets. It -was made by Irene L. Heusser of Sunnyvale Ward, California. She used a white sheet jor the suit and added bright-colored pockets, with a large red ruffle around the top. These two living dolls will really make a hit at a bazaar. Balloons tied to the shoulders or carried in the hands add a festive note. Darts € Vava Vow tuck -—"#— tuck selvage length of sheet CHAPTER 8 (CONCLUSION) Shirley Thulin @ Joan hurried towards Doctor Niles' office. In the last hour she had changed her mind back and forth a dozen times about resigning. She was hurrying now so she wouldn't change it again. She looked up as David fell in step with her. "Boy, where do you get all your energy this early in the morning?" he asked. "I've been chasing you clear down the hall. Tom wants you." "I'll see him on my rounds," she said. "He said he needs you right away is something wrong, Miss Morgan?" "I I guess I could see him now, did he say what he wants?" "No, but he sure is one happy guy these days, thanks to you." "Don't forget, you thought of getting him to go to school." "Yes, but you convinced him," he laughed. ''See you later."