Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving ald and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3,,1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$3.95 OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen An apostle of the Lord speaks to youth about their "growing pains''in straightforward language that has impact and meaning. Perfect gift for your children or for your own reference. $2.95 THIS AGE OF CONFUSION by Alvin R. Dyer An invaluable guide to those who would know of the problems and confusion that beset those churches of the world that have not accepted the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This book will strengthen your testimony by clearly revealing the "concrete" foundation of our faith. $3.50 i csevet Book (Satya eesage, COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah g4119 Phone 328-8191 e@eeeeoeee#eoeneoeeese Enclosed find$, in check/money order/cash/ Or bill. Me, I have an account. Iwish books 1. 2. 3. (circle): Le Me. Ie aon < Sir, gL. Te Weiwk ty.) cil Aine aN RNIN Me a a tani kil trax WP viet Wiest» & signs gelae < eee he eeel ane ae4 ee Residents of Utah, please add 32% sales tax. RS DEC 65 Residents of California, please add 4% sales tax when ordering through California store.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_12_12_Fict_The_Coles.txt) ===
record for women's land speed in driving a car last September on the Bonneville Salt Flats near Salt Lake City. Her record was 277.62 miles per hour. Miss Phyllis Steorts of Salt Lake City, is president of an international organization known as Executive Secretaries, Inc. Mrs. Gwen Cafritz is one of the first 250 people to carry ''on the person" alarms. The new invention, planned to help fight crime, beginning in Washington, D. C., is an F. M. Radio transmitter that can be carried in pocketbook or briefcase to send a message to a private monitoring service, which, in turn, informs the police. At the same time it sounds an audible alarm to frighten away the criminal. Mrs. Cafritz, a Washington hostess, was a recent robbery victim. Mrs. Sue Weiss worked with Dr. Melvin Selzer (both from the University of Michigan) in a study to discover the proportion of chronic alcoholics among drivers responsible for fatal accidents on the road. The results indicate that the percentage is almost fifty. Caroline Field, nationally known _ for her work in children's libraries, is head of the children's library in Philadelphia. She has brought to her city, and to the country at large, an awareness of children's needs for good literature, and of what constitutes high-quality reading for children. Miss Marguerite Piazza is a beautiful and popular opera star who believes that one must have versatility to succeed today. She is praised for both singing and acting. She also dances and sings jazz. Helen Waite Papashvily has written a lively biography of Louisa May Alcott for children from ten to fourteen years of age. Those familiar with Miss Alcott's autobiographical novel Little Women will note with enjoyment the. Relationship between the facts of Miss Alcott's life and the fictional incidents which developed from them in the novel. Joan Ritchie, nationally famous folk singer, who specializes in ballads of the Appalachian region, also plays the dulcimer, an instrument of ancient origin.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_12_15_SpFt_Christmas_Board.txt) ===
About that many Americans have TB germs in their bodies. That was the report to the nation by the United States Surgeon General's Task Force on the future of tuberculosis control. How many of these 35,000,000 ''break down''? And what happens when they do? Answer—each year about 53,000 develop (or break down into) active TB, each capable or potentially capable of spreading TB to others. And another 10,000 previous sufferers from the active disease, suffer a relapse. That is why this year's Christmas Seal appeal, the only source of funds available to the Tuberculosis Associations, is one of the most important in history. Your contribution will help turn the tables on TB and help assure that final victory, not only for tuberculosis but other crippling respiratory diseases. Please use Christmas Seals generously on all your holiday mail. And answer your Christmas Seal letter with a heartfelt contribution. I Love Life Zara Sabin Life!! Love it, All there is of it: Its winds and its rains, Its high hills and plains, Its days that are fair— Red roses everywhere. All there is of it. This life, I love it. 908 Janet W. Breeze m The yearly joyful suspense leading up to Christmas is one of the most exciting events of childhood. And the extra little fun things that mothers and grandmothers do to enhance the anticipation, create lasting memories for starry-eyed youngsters. ~ Here is a new twist to the old European custom of celebrating the pre-Christmas that can be fun for the whole family. Instead of a calendar or numbered scene which helps count the suspenseful days, decorate your dining room table, or some corner of the house, with a "Sugar Plum'' tree. First, find a small, but sturdy, tree limb which can be successfully sprayed silver, gold, green, or any other color you desire. At the same time, paint one candy box or shoe box for each anxious child. (And we suggest spray painting outdoors, if at all possible.) When the paint is dry, "plant" your tree in a foil-covered container in which you have placed a ball of modeling clay. Fill the container with rocks to prevent the tree's tipping with the weight of decorations. Next, give each child in the family a supply of old Christmas cards or colored construction paper, glue, and glitter, so he can make one decoration for each allotted day until Christmas. Decorations cut from old cards or made from paper should have a small hole punched in the top end for threading through a strong loop, ornament book, or wire, for attaching to the tree. In addition to paper decorations, each child's collection could also include small silver bells, candy canes, small packages of raisins, little colored paper sacks containing sugared cereal, nuts, or other Christmas treats. When the decorations are complete, they are safely tucked away in the boxes which were painted earlier. Each child can decorate and personalize his own box as desired. Now for the best part.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_12_27_The Home_Christmas_Beautifu.txt) ===
DINING ROOM The long table is covered with a white linen cloth accented with a red runner of brocaded taffeta. A narrow runner of green velvet centers the red material. Six green candles ring a grouping of artificial fruit and plastic balls as a centerpiece. A bow of green velvet ribbon accents the red and green balls hanging from the chandelier. The Christmas tree, standing between the white candelabra, is made of Oregon grape leaves, sprayed a dark green, and ornamented with plastic balls, some of which contain small electric lights. The tree body is made of styrofoam. MUSIC ROOM—LIBRARY Maroon-colored love seat and chair; pictures above the love seat come from Brazil and are made of butterflies. The artificial tree is trimmed with plastic balls and crystals taken from a chandelier (plastic crystals could be substituted). The colors harmonize with the pale green walis and ceiling. Transparencies by Hal Rumel 921 > 512345 1998 KITCHEN AND BREAKFAST NOOK VIEW A runner of red felt borders the top of the wall, decorated with cutout figures of bells, Santa Claus, and stars. They are attached with glue. The holder for Christmas cards is made of red felt, with a green pocket. The interesting and unique twenty-four day calendar in the center of the wall is decorated with a felt Christmas tree to which are sewed sequins and small glittering belis. The small decorative figures on the calendar are felt pockets, each one containing a small gift. On each of the twenty-four days preceding Christmas, one pocket is opened by the children and the gift placed upon the Christmas tree. The white tureen centerpiece on the round table is filled with artificial fruit, pine cones, and holly leaves. A Christmas apron made of burlap, decorated with drapery balls, is laid across the smaller table. SHANOA'S ROOM AT CHRISTMAS TIME The tree on the table is made of raffia. Some of the raffia is left in its original dark nink color and some of it is sprayed a pale pink. Gold and silver glitter crystals are sprinkled on the raffia and small lights glow in the branches. The raffia is given body for the branches by being intertwined with wire. The small dark green tree on the floor is really a music box, jeweled and pearl-encrusted. Se ee eee es mint meat.