A Visit to the American Embassy in Mexico By Alice D. Moyle A LONG felt desire to visit the wonderful ruins of Yucatan and Mexico resulted in Brother Moyle and myself sailing from New York recently bound for Progresso, the only port of entry for the peninsula of Yucatan, where we landed five days later and proceeded to Merida. This quaint Spanish City is the capitol and only city of any size in Yucatan, it has a little less than a hundred thousand inhabitants. From there we visited Uxmal and Chichen Itza where are found some of the most extensive and remarkable ruins of the cities of the Mayas葉he most progressive and enlightened nation of the ancient Aborigines of America. These cities must have had a far greater population than Merida now has. I should like to dwell on this fascinating part of our trip, but I want to tell you of our visit to Mexico City, and of the interesting and important position occupied, and of the work being performed by our own Mrs. Clark and her distinguished husband. After leaving Yucatan we took a steamer to Vera Cruz and from there went by train over one of the most picturesque roads on the continent to Mexico City, where we were met at the station by Ambassador and Mrs. Clark and taken bag and baggage to their beautiful home, the American Embassy. Mexico City is seventy-five hundred feet above sea level on a great plateau surrounded by mountains, AMERICAN EMBASSY 254 towering over all is the famous Mount Popocatapetl, which is ten thousand three hundred feet above the valley and nearly twenty thousand feet above sea level. It has been called the "Vesuvius of America,' but now only _ occasionally emits smoke. Its peak is snowcapped, and on a bright day its summit seems to link with the sky. Mexico City is perhaps the oldest city on the continent, and has a population of 968,443. The Span RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE high arched windows and huge fireplaces. The drawing rooms are beautifully furnished and draped with old brocades, antique furniture and beautiful mirrors. The large dining room easily seats fifty to sixty people. This room opens with low French windows onto a wide ｩ veranda which runs the length of the house, and from this we reach a lovely garden, or patio enclosed by a high wall covered with vines and flowers. In this enclosure at THE CLARK FAMILY ish atmosphere, the tropical vegetation and flowers, combined with its temperate climate, make it a most desirable place in which to live. The American Embassy, by far the finest of any of the Embassies in Mexico, is imposing and impressive, and iis very fittingly called "The White House of Mexico." It is a large one-story structure, Spanish -style, with flat roof, heavy columns, ceilings twenty-five to thirty feet in height, marble floors, the other end of the garden are the offices of the Ambassador and his staff in a dignified building, called the Chancery. The Embassy is beautifully decorated for all entertainments and every day is filled with the loveliest flowers, immense bowls of which are in every available space. As we approached the Embassy, we entered through large carved iron gates, which were closely guarded. These led to a recessed white marble entrance, which was very striking with its red AMERICAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO velvet carpeted steps, and looking out upon a wall of beautiful flowers and beds of Calla lilies. Ambassador and Mrs. Clark are very busy people. Besides affairs of State there is much entertainment. Luncheons, teas and dinners 209 During our stay we were fortunate enough to be among the guests at two large dinner parties, one given to educators and men of affairs in Mexico, the other to Diplomats and distinguished visitors. A large dinner dance was also given -LIVING ROOM IN AMERICAN EMBASSY follow each other in quick succession. Once every month the Embassy is thrown open for a large reception at which three or fotr hundred people are entertained. The guests include Mexican Diplomats and Officials, American and British Subjects, in fact, the Embassy is an open house. For the American Consuls, eighty in number, who were attending a conference in Mexico City at the call of Ambassador Clark. Mrs. Clark shares the distinction, with the wife of President Rubio of Mexico, of being chosen an honorary President of the Pan-American Society. This Society was enterMUSIC ROOM IN AMERICAN EMBASSY~ 256 tained recently at a beautifully appointed luncheon by Mrs, Clark. It is the privilege and custom of the Ambassador to entertain any and all distinguished people who visit Mexico. Mr. Thomas S. Gates, President of the University of Pennsylvania, and until quite recently, the partner of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan, with his wife, were guests at the Embassy during our visit. Ambassador and Mrs. Clark planned and accompanied us on several wonderful trips to places of interest. One delightful jaunt was to Xochimelico,* where are located the famous floating Aztec gardens. These gardens were originally made by inter-lacing twigs strong enough to form a mat, and covering them with a thin layer of earth. Being light they were easily moved across the canals with oars. They were sometimes one hundred feet long. Fragile huts and gardens were built upon them. Eventually these gardens took root, and trees and shrubs grew, until now they are stationary gardens of trees, flowers, and vegetables. Each little plot of land is a floral paradise. At one of the landing places, awaiting our party of eight, was a quaint flat bottom boat with posts supporting a canopy covered with bunches of flowers. Down the center of the boat a table was spread with'a most delicious luncheon. We were towed by a native through picturesque canals lined on both sides with gardens of flowers, and the most wonderful tropical vegetation. At every turn in the stream, we passed boats bound for markets laden with fruit, vegetables and flowers. We visited the wonderful pyramids, temples, and ruins of pre historic time, in and around Mexico City. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Xochimelico means "Where flowers grow." Another delightful trip was our visit to Cuernevaca, where the summer home of the former Ambassador, Mr. Morrow, is situated, and is still maintained by him. Here the most luxurious tropical gardens, swimming pool and quaint Spanish home is at the disposal of Mr. and Mrs. Clark. Of all the demands made upon Mrs. Clark, none does she enjoy more than her philanthropic and charitable work. She has already identified herself in the work of the Red Cross and other local charities. Mrs. Clark had the honor lately of opening a large bazaar. Mr, Clark's decision, that no liquor 'be served at the Embassy, while quite an innovation, has impressed the American Colony with its consistency and good taste. If one may judge from the popularity and length of time the guests linger, Mr. Clark has refuted the idea so prevalent, especially in Latin countries, that dinners and entertainments cannot be popular without serving liquor. Twelve native servants are employed at the Embassy, and Mrs. Clark is able to give, in Spanish, the final word in the management of her household. One of the most highly prized members of the staff is the efficient and attractive Social Secretary. Mrs. Clark's Chef is reputed to be the finest in Mexico, with which I heartily agree. This article would fall short if I did not tell you about Luacine, the only child of Mr. And Mrs. Clark at home. She is not old enough to attend formal parties, but is a joy in the Embassy. Luacine will graduate from the American High School in June. She speaks Spanish, and is -very accomplished in music and composition. She, with AMERICAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO her mother, are at work now on an operetta. Her intelligent, sweet unaffected manner is winning for her many friends. Mr. Clark's appointment to this high position, is due to his expert knowledge of International Law, and to his demonstrated ability to handle successfully the delicate and important diplomatic affairs of our government, with Mexico. It is. Common for Ambassadors to be appointed because of great wealth, social distinction, or coming from 257 important centers of population, but Mr. Clark was chosen not for these, but for his recognized ability, knowledge, fitness for the place, and popularity with Mexican people, who are not easily understood. That so small and remote a state as Utah should be thus favored, is a distinct honor, not only to Mr. Clark, but to the State. Mr. Clark's home and domestic life in Mexico is typical of the highest ideals of the people to whom he belongs, and of the country which he represents.
