The Consumer's Responsibility to the Manufacturer and Merchant By Vilate Elliott, Professor of Textiles and Clothing, B. Y. U.
Ignorance and selfishness are two factors in buying; often it does not occur to a woman that she is affecting anyone but herself in what she buys. Yet it is a part of her responsibility to know how and where the garment is made. She must know something of the sanitary conditions, of the number of hours required of the workmen, if a reasonable wage is paid to them. Some people are heedless of these facts until they are told that little children wearing uninspected clothing may be endangered and exposed to disease. If a mother understands these conditions, she will insist on branded garments. These things help her to realize that the selection for her family takes her out into the world and into many homes not so pleasant as her own, where the living is scanty, where a starvation wage is paid, where the mother is not permitted to give her time to her home and family. She will know she must take her share of the responsibility of such places of garment making. She will be anxious to identify herself with the consumer's league or other associations for the betterment of working people. The woman who does these things, giving of her time and strength, usually profits by it: she has the satisfaction of knowing that other little children are being better cared for, that people are working in cleaner, lighter, and more sanitary buildings, where rest rooms and nurses are found, where a decent wage is paid, and where a limited number of hours is considered a day's work.
Where a woman trades at one store frequently, she may form the habit of trading with the same saleswoman. If she continually asks for certain lines of goods she will be shown that class of garment. In this way the habit of right choice will grow, she will have satisfaction in her knowledge of buying that which makes for the betterment of her home, which makes her a more competent spender in handling the money with which she has been provided.
The retail stores have given their customers many privileges and accommodations such as rest rooms, phones, credit, delivery. Some people have misused these privileges, they have taken advantage of them until the American woman has formed many bad shopping habits. Getting garments on approval without any or very little intention of keeping them, and then returning them, sometimes in a soiled or crumpled condition and showing marks of having been worn, is a practice to be condemned. Such garments are usually returned and sold at a discount. The manager does this rather than lose a customer or his reputation for being generous. This habit also makes it necessary for the store to keep a bigger stock of goods in order not to lose sales while the garments are out. There should be a time limit on a garment sent out on approval. It is morally wrong to permit an article to be sent out unless one expects to make a purchase, but there are people who deliberately plan to have them sent out, expecting to wear them on some
302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
special occasion and then return them.
Free delivery is another much debated question. Delivery adds about five per cent to the cost of the merchandise and is paid by all alike. Would it not be better to make a small charge for delivery for those desiring it? Is it not fair for those who wish special privileges to pay for them? Should not delivery be limited to at least once a day? However, more packages would be carried if the time of waiting for the package could be eliminated.
Late shopping adds to the expense of the store and incidentally to the cost. Seventy-five per cent of the sales are made after two o'clock. Some stores offer a ten percent discount on all shopping done before ten o'clock. Early morning habits of shopping are excellent: the buyer is fresh and better able to judge what she wants. The sales people are not so busy and are anxious to show their materials, and can give
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 303
more time in helping the customer in her selection. It is well to be definite in your shopping. If you have not decided on what you want to buy, tell your saleswoman you are just looking. Don't feel vexed if she does not give you an unlimited amount of time. Be frank with her, tell her you may return after having looked elsewhere. If you do return, go to the same saleswoman, as the sale belongs to her. Many of them are paid a commission on their sales. If a customer takes up much of her time and buys nothing, her commissions are diminished. This is discouraging, you really have prevented her from making other sales. A customer expects courteous treatment; she should be willing to accord the same to the saleswoman. A kindly word carrying with it an expression of appreciation will throw an atmosphere of cheer around the saleswoman, perchance, for the rest of the day.
