What is Adequate Maternity Care? By Hazel Corbin, General Director Maternity Center Association, New York City the observation, care and instruction 'by doctors and nurses of pregnant mothers from the time the mother thinks she may be pregnant until she is able to resume her regular activities and to care for her new baby. The Maternity Center Association cares for mothers in one section of New York City by holding clinics where doctors examine those patients who, for one reason or another, would otherwise have no medical supervision; by sending public health nurses to visit mothers in their homes, and by conducting classes for mothers at the centers where they can see the model clothes and supplies for babies and themselves and practice bathing and dressing a baby-sized doll. Nurses urge each mother to register as early as possible with the private doctor or hospital physician who will deliver her so he may direct her care during pregnancy and know all about her when it comes time for the delivery and care of the baby. Each mother is helped to select, from the facilities ADEQUATE maternity care is available, what is best suited to her condition. The nurses, working with the doctors and reporting to them each time they see the mothers, see each mother at regular intervals during pregnancy to: 1. Help with every question or problem that may disturb her peace of mind or happiness or interfere with the health of the other members of the family. 2. Detect any discomforts, abnormalties or complications in time to have them corrected before they can hurt the mother or the baby. 3. Teach the mother and father about: (a) The mother's hygiene, diet, rest, exercise, elimination, bathing, clothes, care of breasts, care of teeth, and how these items may be fitted into the daily regime of the home. The preparation for the baby including clothes, bed, toilet supplies and the care of them. (c) The preparation of delivery (b) 266 supplies and planning for the mother's care when the baby comes and during the next few weeks. The care of the baby—bath, rest, exercise, food, habit formation—and how the best daily regime may be secured without disrupting the family life. (d) The nurses help the doctor or midwife during delivery and make regular visits afterward to give, or teach some responsible person to give, the necessary care to mother and baby, as well as to see that the household is running smoothly so the mother can rest as long as necessary, and gradually, as the doctor advises, resume her usual activities and increased responsibilities. When the mother begins to care for her baby, the nurse is right there to explain again all those points— each so. Important—that the mother has learned in the classes at the center. Then, she helps the mother to plan her day's work so she can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have time for rest and other things and still give the baby the best of care. Before the nurse stops visiting 'she makes sure of three things— first, that the mother has seen her doctor for the last examination that is sO necessary to detect and correct at once any bad effects of the pregnancy, and. Second that the baby is registered with a doctor or a clinic for regular health supervision and instruction until he goes to school, and finally that father and mother both recognize that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," and that regular health examinations for the whole family are that ounce of prevention. The death rate among mothers who have had this care was twothirds lower than it was among those mothers living in the same district who did not have this care. If every mother in this country could have the care she needs, we would no longer have a maternal mortality rate higher than twentyone other countries.
