Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) EXALTATION
1. The Exaltation of Place in the Universe. Theologically man and woman stand at the head of the intelligences of this planet. By divine fiat they are in dominion. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 2). But their dominion extends beyond this earth; it reaches out into the universe. The mind of man is greater than all the stars, for it can contemplate them, and they cannot contemplate it. Planets may come and go, worlds may be born and die, but the mentality of man is indestructible. The whole material universe has not the possibilities, wrapped up in it, that is possessed by one human soul, for it can learn and love and grow forever; it can give and increase by giving; thought and love, mercy and justice, all increase by being given. Suns become exhausted through the expenditure of light, but the longer the mind sheds light the brighter it becomes. We must part company with the learned Greek Sophocles who said, "Man is but breath and shadow, nothing more," and enjoy Shakespeare who exclaims, through Hamlet, "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a God!" We cannot believe with Emerson that Man is a God in ruins, because of our acceptance of the revealed truth that man is a God in the making. This marvelous truth, coming to us through President Lorenzo Snow has become a Latter-day Saint aphorism, "What man is, God once was; what God is man may become." Man's prospective place in the universe is more than that of a contemplator of worlds, it is that of a creator of worlds. On one occasion, President Lorenzo Snow, visiting the kindergarten department of the Brigham Young University where the children were moulding in clay, took one of the mud balls from a child and holding it up said, "Children make these toy worlds now, some day they will make worlds like the one on which we live."
2. Man's Exaltation in Ancestry. We set aside as an unproved theory the alleged ape-ancestry of man, and hold fast to the divine declaration that our first ancestors were the direct offspring of the Gods. "So the Gods went down

to organize man in their own image, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 4:27.) For the genealogy of the human family from Christ to Adam see Luke 3:23-38. There we find that Adam was the son of God. The appreciation of a high ancestral exaltation forms a foundation for faith in our possibilities, and inspires an ambition towards an ideality that reaches beyond mortality. Naturally the knowledge of noble ancestry produces a self-respect that will not degenerate into self-conceit.
3. The Exaltation of Increase. In the power to beget beings in the form and image of God is an exaltation near to that of creatorship. That parenthood which rises above mere physical progenitorship is one of the highest forms of exaltation for both the now and the hereafter. It is a glory of intelligences; it is founded on soul affinity, yearning for offspring and the approval of the Lord. In the exaltation of increase, attitude is fundamental. The desire for offspring is mental parenthood. There is real motherhood and genuine fatherhood in the yearning for children. The foster-parenthood of people who are denied direct progenitorship is so sublime that it may well be the foundation of high exaltation. In the economy of the spiritual universe no noble desire ever goes unrewarded. Desire for posterity is one of the characteristics of noble spirits. Among the seven great desires of Abraham was the desire for posterity, (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 1:2). One of the three great promises made to this "Friend of God" this "Father of the faithful" was the promise of endless increase. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 2:9.)
4. Exaltation and Ordinances. Ordinances are performed as a part of the process of exaltation. They are expressive of order and the sharing of responsibility. A church without ordinances would be like a state without oaths of office, or business without formal contracts. Unless the words of Jesus are false, we must believe that the rejection of an ordinance is a bar to entrance into his Father's Kingdom. (See John 3:5.) Jesus performed the ordinance of ordaining apostles. (See Mark 3:14; John 15:16.) The whole career of the Savior indicates that he wasted neither time nor effort in doing the non-essential. The sealing ordinance is made one of the prerequisites to the highest exaltation in the world to come. Rejecting this ordinance
men and women cannot reach the destiny for which they were "added upon" or given the privilege of earth life. (Doc. and Cov. 132:19-20.)
5. Exaltation and Service. Our interest in God comes from a desire to express gratitude for superhuman help already received and our expectation of help yet to be given. Take away the idea of helpfulness, or service, and our conception of Deity as an object of worship is gone. Our Father in heaven has become what he is to us through his unselfish service to us. God has advanced to exaltation above all because he had done more than all for all. Jesus was working out something more than salvation while on earth. He evidently was on a mission of winning the souls of men through service. He already had a place in the Godhead, and possessed the intelligence necessary to the keeping of that position. He had the glory of individual intelligence and was working for the glory of intelligences. He said, "If I am lifted up from the earth I will draw all men unto me," and thus he would have the glory of not only his own intelligence but the glory of the recognition of other intelligences as their Savior-God. There can be no selfishness in a life that gives more than it gets even though it gets much. One who can meritoriously wear the badge on which is the sentence, "I serve," cannot fail of exaltation to the full limit of his righteous desires.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Wherein is man exalted above all the physical universe?
2. Why is a single soul of more importance than a whole system of uninhabited worlds?
3. Show that ancestral exaltation must be supplemented by individual effort to be of much value hereafter.
4. What desires must be behind the exaltation of increase to make it joy-giving and lasting?
5. Distinguish between self-respect and self-conceit.
6. What were the seven great desires of Abraham?
7. Mention the three great blessings promised by the Lord to the "Father of the Faithful."
8. What exaltation is impossible without the sealing ordinances?
9. Discuss the proposition: Ordinances alone cannot guarantee permanent exaltation.
10. Discuss: There are no loafers in Heaven.
11. Discuss. God exalts no one arbitrarily.
12. Describe progressive exaltation as presented by President Joseph F. Smith in Gospel Doctrine, pp. 85-86.

LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September)
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
One of the first writers of fiction in America was Charles Brockden Brown. He followed the fashion of fiction then in vogue in England. Ghost stories and tales, making use of supernatural material, were in style. During his time and prior to it, poets of America were languishing for the mother country. It did not occur to them that the Hudson River was as worthy the poet as the Thames or the Avon, or that the birds that caroled in the interminable forests of America made as sweet music as the blackbird, the sky lark and the nightingale of England. We had to wait until the time of James Fenimore
JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
Cooper for a break from the old world. Cooper gives us the life of the pioneer, in the eastern part of our country. He was born in New Jersey in the year 1789. His father was of English extraction and his mother Swedish in descent. Cooperstown, on Ostego lake, a very beautiful estate, was acquired by his father, William Cooper, for their home. This region was so primitive in its nature that the wild beast and the Indian were as yet its inhabitants. Soon the log house, their first dwelling, gave way to a rather ambitious mansion, and in time Mr. Cooper went to congress. All of his son's later experiences in the city, at Yale university, and in other places foreign to rural life, did not obliterate
the impressions that nature, in all its primitiveness and grandeur, had made upon his mind. He was dismissed from Yale, not because of any very serious escapades, but because he loved the out-door life very much better than class room exercises. His dismissal from Yale caused him to go on shipboard, as a sailor before the mast. There was no naval academy at that time, so that he had to take his training upon the ship. He visited London and Gibraltar, and on his return received a midshipman's commission. He gave up the sea at the time of his marriage, as his wife greatly preferred that he should spend his life with her in the country, to going to sea.
An odd accident changed the whole course of his life. One day, while reading a dull piece of fiction, he remarked to his wife that he believed he could write a better story than that. She dared him to try, and as a result he wrote a tale of English life entitled, "Precaution," which was very stupid for the reason that Cooper knew nothing of high life in England. He might have given up writing altogether had it not been intimated to him that he was very unpatriotic to choose an English theme for his first novel. This suggestion led to a second venture, which was successful. The revolution was a matter of interest to him, and so he chose Westchester county as his scene. He had heard John Jay tell the story of a spy who had served the American government most fearlessly and unselfishly. From this story he created the character of Harvey Birch, and thereby added a great character to the world's fiction. "A character," says Mr. Trent, "appealing profoundly to the general taste of the period for pathos and romantic contrasts." Mr. Pancost says of The Spy "that its publication was almost as memorable an event in our literary history as the publication of Irving's Knickerbocker History of New York." In a sense The Spy is a historical novel. The fact that it is Washington and no other with whom Harvey Birch has his memorable interview, undoubtedly adds to the charm and power of the book. Nevertheless, Cooper's knowledge of the type of man he was describing and the scenes in which the story was laid, had very much to do with it. A position as a man of letters was now won for Mr. Cooper. Before the year was over, he was known favorably in both England and France.
His next venture was The Pioneers, in which he described scenes familiar in his boyhood. Another venture was The Pilot. He had read Scott's Pirate and declared that it was written by a landsman, so he determined to write a sea tale that would reflect his first-hand experience of the sea. Long Tom Coffin and the pilot himself, and Paul Jones would alone have made the story noted, but to these was added the life of the sea, and in it Cooper did something that no other writer had really tried to do, thus giving America the distinction of creating real

sea fiction. This year chances to be the centenary of the publication of both The Pioneers and The Pilot.
After Cooper's success with The Pilot which had made him something of a lion in New York, he turned again to the battleground of the Revolution and wrote Lionel Lincoln, or the Leaguer of Boston. This book has all the accuracy of detail characteristic of the modern realistic novel.
In February, 1826 Cooper gave to the world the best of all of his works of fiction, The Last of the Mohicans. As a story of thrilling adventure, it is worthy of high praise. Yet, this is only one of its favorable points, for to employ the words of a well-known critic, "It is full of the poetry of the forest, embodied in the great hunter, Hawkeye." Cooper's fame was now at its height, and he could afford to visit Europe. From June, 1826, to November, 1833, he moved from country to country, the recipient of many courtesies which he did not receive in a very gracious fashion. Mr. Trent says, "He was too typical a democrat to make a favorable impression everywhere. He fancied that his success as a writer made it necessary to lecture to both the old world and the new on their particular weaknesses. Because of this fact, he grew to be very unpopular."
The time in which Cooper lived was not as distinct from our own time as one might think at first hand. Europe half feared and wholly misunderstood America during that period. Ignorant and prejudiced travelers were doing their best to make relations still more strained, very much in the fashion that they are doing it today. Cooper's frequent flings, both at his own country and Great Britain, only succeeded in making him enemies in both countries.
During these years of unfortunate controversy, Cooper wrote some of the best and some of the worst of his novels. The famous Leatherstocking Tales give us Cooper's best pictures of the life he sought to portray. These books, The Deer Slayer, 1841; The Last of the Mohicans, 1826; The Pathfinder, 1840; The Pioneers, 1823; and The Prairie, 1827, to name them in the order in which they should be read, are Cooper's greatest contributions to literature. In this series of novels, he has given us Natty Bumpo, or Leatherstocking, at five successive stages of his life. "We find him on his first warpath, humble and as one who had not been proved; we see him in the fulness of his marvelous skill and sagacity, and we see him finally when age has come upon him, his friends dead, his very dog feeble and toothless, his famous rifle, Kildeer, out of date and ready, like its owner, to be laid aside. To thus show the life and development of a single character in five successive novels is a memorable achievement and the success with which this has been accomplished is one of Cooper's highest claims to distinction."