THE GUARDIAN OF THE DESERT Opportunity Makes a Masterpiece of Your Life Radio Talk given over KSL Dec. 2, 1932 By Elise B. Alder LIFE is a great and noble calling and not a mean commonplace existence to be shuffled through most any way." Real living is an art and must be gained by our own efforts. Our growth depends on straight thinking and a proper conception of the relative value of things. The art of living is a process of selections, eliminating the things not worth while, selecting the essentials, concentrating on spiritual and mental values. We are successes or failures, happy or miserable depending on the satisfactions we select and the relative values we put upon spiritual and material possessions. An unknown author gives us these words: "Suposing today were your last day on earth The last mile the journey you've trod After all your struggles how much are you worth How much can you take home to God? Don't count as possessions your silver or gold For tomorrow you leave those behind And all that is yours to have and to hold Are the blessings you've given mankind. "Just what have you done as 'you journeyed along That was really and truly worth while? Do you think your good deeds would offset the wrong Could you look o'er your life with a smile? We are only supposing, but if it were real And you invoiced your deeds since your birth And you figured the "profits" you've made in-life's deal How much are you really worth?" We must learn to appraise the durable satisfactions of life and to evaluate properly those unsatisfying prizes on which nearly all hearts have been set during the last few years. We had literally become slaves to the artificial things of life. Life was too complex. We must now turn to the simpler form of living, one in which there is less luxury and more stability. Our success is not measured by the wealth we accumulate, nor the speed we can travel, but by the quality of our intellectual and spiritual interests, and the effort we are putting forth to make other lives sweeter and more joyous. The search for knowledge in and of itself brings a joy and satisfaction that no other activity can supply. Wealth may take wings and fly away, but knowledge is an everlasting possession, and is a vital force. We do not think much of a person who is not wiser today than he was yesterday. Michael Pupin's mother said to him, "Knowledge, my boy. Is the golden ladder over which we climb to Heaven, knowledge is the light which illuminates our path through this life and leads to a future life of everlasting glory." We often hear people say, if we had only had an opportunity for education. Opportunity is knocking at our door. When we stop to think of great men such as Shakespeare and Lincoln and others whose school education was limited who have given to the world master pieces in the English 172 language we say with Longfellow, "The heights that great men reached and kept, Were not attained by sudden flight, But they while their companions slept Were toiling upward through the night." There is an Indian legend of a good spirit who, wishing to benefit a young princess, led her into a ripe and golden corn field. "See these ears of corn, my daughter; if thou wilt pluck these diligently, they will turn to precious jewels; the richer the ear of corn, the brighter the gem. But thou mayest only once pass through this cornfield, and can'st not return the same way." The maiden gladly accepted the offer. As she went on, many ripe and full ears of corn she found in her path, but she did not pluck them, always hoping to find better ones farther on. But presently the stems grew thinner, the ears poorer; farther on they were blighted and she did not think them worth picking. Sorrowfully she stood at the end of the field, for she could not go back the same way. She regretted the loss of the golden ears she had overlooked. To each of us are golden opportunities offered; life speeds on to the goal from which there is no return; let us redeem the time, for fields are white to harvest. Confidence and belief in our own ability to achieve will speed our progress. Making life a masterpiece does not necessarily mean that one must engage in some high profession, some great special work or learned calling. All honest labor is dignified and ennobling. Many men have made masterpieces of their lives as cobblers and have lifted this occupation into dignity and respect.