NOTES BY THE WAY.

	We have had such a pleasant time recently
visiting in the Southern settlements, that we
are desirous of giving our readers a brief de-
scription of a flying visit through Sanpete Co.
We traveled in the interest of the organizations
of women and children, and also of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. We were accompanied by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and our daughter
Louie.
	Leaving this city by the Utah Southern
morning train, we arrived in Nephi just before
noon, where we held a meeting with the sis-
ters of the Relief Society at two o'clock p. m.
Nephi is a flourishing railroad town now, al-
though until recently the people depended
almost entirely upon agricultuial pursuits.
The trees and shrubbery are abundant and
give it a pleasing appearance. They have ex-
cellent farms, gardens and orchards, and their
surroundings denoted prosperity. Elder Or-
son Hyde's son was there with a carriage and
horses, waiting for us when we arrived, and
shortly after the close of the meeting we were
on our way to Fountain Green, the nearest set-
tlement in Sanpete Co., and as it had been
raining during the afternoon, the [--]ads were
not so dusty.
	Having heard much of the beauty and gran-
deur of Salt Creek Canon, we were anxious to
observe all within the range of our vision. The
road is winding, lying between lofty ridges of
mountains of a variety of color and shades, most
of them rocky and steep, the shrubbery seem-
ingly growing out of the solid rock; others
were more verdant, and trees and flowers
helped to make the picture beautiful. The
birds were singing all around us, and here and
there the squirrels, frigntened at the approach
of the horses, ran from bush to bush to hide
themselves. We all fully appreciated the
scenery on our way; and every now and then
some of us would exclaim, O how grand, how
beautiful, how picturesque! Mount Nebo can
be seen only a short distance away, the highest
point in this vicinity. Away it towers above
all the rest, majestic as they appear, as though
it was the crowned head—the king of moun-
tains.
	We reached the Bishop's at Fountain Green
just before dark, and found Mrs M. A. P. Hyde
waiting our arrival. We were glad to retire
early, as we were all fatigued by our long ride
and drive through the canon. The next day
we went on to Moroni; our route lay a[-]ong the
fields, with mountains in the distance. The
people were busy harvesting, and we were
pleased to observe they nearly all had ma-
chinery at work, which so materially lightens
the labor formerly all performed by hand. The
fields of grain were beautiful in the sunshine,
and presented a charming pastoral picture.
Occasionally we saw hayfields, and the fra-

[Column 2]
grance of the new-mow[-] hay was wafted to-
wards us. The crops are not so abundant this
season, on account of the scarcity of water,
yet to us who were not accustomed to seeing
such large fields and stacks of grain they
seemed wonderful.
	Moroni is one of the oldest towns in the
county, and the stone wall and bastion, built
at the time of the Indian trouble, gives it
rather an ancient appearance.
	From Moroni we went on to Fairview, pass-
ing through Mt. Pleasant on our way, leaving
an appointment there for a general meeting to
be held the following day. Mt. Pleasant is in-
deed what the name indicates; the situation
is very romantic, and it has every appearance
of prosperity. We arrived at Fairview in time
to hold two meetings the same day, one in the
evening, and as it was the anniversary of the
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A., there was a
party in the evening, which commenced as
soon as the meeting closed. Fairview is a much
larger settlement than we had thought, and
there is a very great number of children. The
Bishop was an old acquaintance of ours in
childhood, and we were were delighted to see
him after so many years, surrounded with
blessings on every hand, beloved and honored.
His aged mother, too, whom we had known in
former days in our good old New England
home, was also there to greet us and inquire
about old friends. It is always pleasant after
long years to meet those we knew in early life;
it calls up many deep emotions that have lain
buried in the inner recesses of the heart.
	From Fairview we returned to Mt. Pleasant,
where we held meeting in the afternoon, then
on to Spring City, arriving there in time to
meet with the sisters in the evening. In the
morning we had another meeting, of the Pri-
mary Association and as many others as would
fill the hall; indeed, at most of the places we
visited we met with the children, and with
permission of the Bishops they were organized
wherever it had not been done previously.
	From Spring City we posted on to Ephraim.
Here the sisters are building a hall and store
in one, and a place to store grain. At the
present time they have over 1200 bushels of
wheat stored, most of which they gleaned.
This is a proof of what the sisters may do in
storing up grain against a day of need. We
found the sisters earnest and diligent in regard
to the storing of grain, and indeed it is quite
wonderful how much has been accomplished 
by the organizations of women in so short a
time, commencing, too, without capital. At
Ephraim we visited the two Sunday Schools
and heard the children answer questions on the
Book of Mormon that astonished us. From
this place we went to Manti, where we visited
the Temple grounds, of which we intend giv-
ing a brief description at another time, as also
of other things we saw. Our space will not
permit us to enter into details. At Manti the
sisters are building a rock store. We had a
very full meeting there, many brethren were
present.
	From Manti we journeyed to Mayfield, from
there to Gunnison. In this place the Relief
Society are erecting a large building, one por-
tion of which a large hall, will be completed
<p lafga="" hafij="" wiil="" be="" completed="" thij="" fall,.="" the="" pthyr-paigthe="" b.uliqingh="" fie'="" signed="" for="" a="" theatre,.="" )itth.,.tage="" .and:="" ;other="" rpomq="" adjoining;="" the(s?pmd.="" eloryw="" ilheontain="" rooms="" ,cocoon.eryjfibraryriridpthe="">this fall. The other part of the building is de-
signed for a theatre, with stage and other
rooms adjoining; the second story will contain
rooms for cocoonery, library and other purposes.
It is to have a mansard roof and will be, when
completed, a very handsome building.
	From Gunnison we went on to Fayette, 
where some organizations were formed, and
the next morning we rode over to Juab and 
took the train to return home.

[Column 3]
	At Fayette we parted with Mrs. Hyde, who
had traveled with us all through Sanpete Co.,
and to whom we had become strongly attached
on account of her many amiable and pleasing
qualities and her gentle and attractive manner.
	Throughout our entire journey we were most
cordially welcomed and hospitably entertained,
and everywhere the Bishops were specially
kind and delighted to see the sisters’ who had
come on a visit, hear them talk, and show them
all the attention possible. We were introduced
to a great many brethren and sisters, whom
we were very glad to meet, and who expressed
themselves delighted tomeet the sisters from
THE CITY. The scenery we saw would alone
furnish subject matter for an article, but at
present we will only say Sanpete is in a pros-
perous condition, and its valleys teem with
plenty, and the children are a numerous host.
				[handwriten] E. B. Wells


