A FEW THOUGHTS.

	"All ye inhabitants of the world and dwell-
ers on the earth, see ye when he lifteth up an
ensign on the mountains." (Isaiah xviii. 3)

	Ever since the creation man has made laws
to prescribe the people, and has set aside the
laws of God, to the overthrow of nations. Is
not past history sufficient to elucidate this,
and will man persist in this work of dissolu-
tion? How was it with the world in the days
of Noah? Later with our Savior? And how
will it be with this nation, now a powerful
government in the midst of the earth? Look
well to your acts, that you do not merit a simi-
lar fate, and walk that broad road to destruc-
tion! Let us investigate the matter, and see if
our government is not making laws to pre-
scribe, to cast into prison the innocent, to de-
prive its citizens the right of justice, of con-
science, also of their religious rights, to wor-
ship God according to their own views. If we
as Latter-day Saints would believe in a God
without body, parts, or passions, if we would
believe the Pope had power to forgive sins, or
believe baptism was not essential for our salva-
tion, if we would be atheists, shaking Quak-
ers, quiet Quakers, or if we would believe in
some of the dogmas of the day, that have been
established by man-reformers from errors they
could not swallow, we might live with them
in peace; but now because we cannot swallow
what they could in their religious faith, they
use the same weapons their fathers did, stripes,
death and imprisonment.
	We do not want to countenance grogshops,
billiard saloons, houses of ill fame, but their
laws have subjected us to all their attendant
evils. O! the inconsistency of man-made laws
—a cover for sin and degradation. Our most
bitter enemies are largely of a class we blush
to name, and of those who love and make lies.
But our friends are the virtuous, the most hon-
orable, the pure in heart, who will listen to

[Column 2]
the voice of truth that comes from God. "All
ye inhabitants of the world and dwellers on
the earth, see ye when He lifteth up an ensign
on the mountains," for the hour of His judg-
ment has come; and He will come out of His
hiding place and vex that nation that lifts its
puny arm against His work, and bring it low
in the dust. For He has said He would do a
marvelous work, which would be a wonder to
all people. And again, He says He doeth
nothing unless He revealeth it to His servants,
the prophets: these words prove we shall have
revelation. If they bring every evil accusation
against us, we will worship the true and liv-
ing God, whom Abraham, Isaac, Moses, Seth,
Jacob, all the old patriarchs and the New Tes-
tament disciples worshipped.

	We are the women who will stand firm to
our faith, to our brethren, to our patriarchs, to
our God, who was the friend of Abraham, and
his posterity in plural marriage, of whose seed
we are; and shall we cowardly deny our origin,
the very fountain of our existence? Did not
Christ say He was the offspring of David, the
bright and morning star?

	I ask, Has our government the power to
make an intelligent, enlightened community
like the Latter-day Saints, with all their
knowledge of Bible doctrine and revelation di-
rect from the fountain head, and who are con-
versant with all the dogmas of a confused sys-
tem of things, religiously and politically, in
the world, that they were glad to leave, have
they the power to make them abandon their
faith? We, the women of Utah, will plead
and pray to our Father in Heaven for our
brethren in prison, and we do sustain and up-
hold them as men of God, who are unjustly
sent to prison by misapplied law—a one-sided
affair, to measure us in their own small mea-
sure, throwing stones at us that will break
their own glass houses.
	We feel proud of our brethren who dare speak
the truth and come out against error, false-
hood, superstition and overt acts of violence;
we can put full confidence in them, for they
are trustworthy. Our Delegate will act honor-
ably as such for we have proven him. And
would that all our officers of law, or who hold
positions, were such men, that would act justly
and with equity.
	We as a community desire peace; we sought
for it by coming here, leaving our all to our
enemies. Can they not be satisfied with what
they have heaped upon us? If they are not
satisfied with our course of life, let them depart
in peace; we can do as well without them as
we did before they came, and a little better.
My son was eight years of age before he saw a
drunken man. What has led some of our sons
and some of our brethren into this great evil?
Drinking saloons. Who are leading some of
the daughters of Zion from virtue's path? Not
polygamists; they are safe with them.
	Those who raise the hue and cry against our
religion and design to thwart the purposes of
Jehovah are this class of men. Has not this
people opened up a great thoroughfare for
commerce by railway to a desert region, that
no other people would have sought out, or un-
dertaken? And it was only accomplished by
them through the living faith they had in Him
who rules the destiny of nations. No power
can stay our progress.
	"This saith the Lord God. Behold, I will
lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up
my standard to the people; and they shall
bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daugh-
ters shall be carried upon their shoulders.'
(49th Isaiah, 22d verse.)
						PHILANTHROPY.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 11, 1879.


