	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., IDAHO,
		July 21, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give you a brief sketch
of our First Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies in the Bear Lake Stake
held on the 17th and 18th of July, in the
Paris Meeting House, which was beautifully
decorated for the occasion.
	Authorities on the stand were, of the 
Presidency of the Relief Societies, Julia
P. Lindsay and her Counselors; local au-
thorities, Apostle C. C. Rich; visitors from
Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I.
Horne, S. M. Kimball and S. M. Heywood;
also Sister E. Townsend from Meadowville.
Meeting was opened in the usual manner
Pres. J. P. Lindsay occupied the stand for
a short time; said she was pleased to meet
with the sisters in the capacity of a Confer-
ence; felt great pleasure in having those
sisters from Salt Lake present, as their
presence would greatly strengthen us. The
Statistical and Financial report were then
read by Sister Alice M. Rich, Stake Secre-
tary.
	Sister E. R. Snow in her remarks spoke
of the first Relief Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, with its officers and
members; said no one should be admitted
as a member without a recommend. In-
structed the members to be punctual in at-
tending their meetings, and the benefit to
be derived therefrom. Said they required
spiritual as well as temporal food. Also
spoke upon the necessity of storing grain;
did not favor the idea of small bins; rec-
ommended that several of the settlements
co operate together and build at some cen-
tral point a large, substantial granary. The
material of this building should be wood,
not brick, or stone.
	Sister M. I. Horne alluded to the great
responsibilities resting upon the mothers in
Israel, also the necessity of the sisters learn-
ing to do business in a proper manner, to
educate themselves for the responsible po-
sitions they would have to fill. They should
arrange their labors so that they could at-
tend their meetings and get the Spirit of
God; it would materially help them.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
	Afternoon session: after the opening ex-
ercises, the Presidents of the different
wards occupied a portion of the time in
representing their societies, which were in
a prosperous condition, all striving with
due diligence to perform their duties in
this great latter-day work. Sister S. M.
Kimball in her remarks related some very
interesting incidents regarding the organ-
ization of the first Relief Society in Nau-
voo, also of its re organization by Pres. B.
Young in Salt Lake City, and the labors of
herself and sisters in the societies.
	Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock the
following morning. Benediction by Apos-
tle C. C. Rich.

[Column 3]

	July 18, 10 o,clock a. m. In addition to
the visitors present the first day, Elders
James H. Hart and George Osmond, of the
Presidency of this Stake, were present. The
President and Counselors of the Y. L. M. L.
A. occupied the stand. Sister S. M. Hey-
wood expressed herself pleased to meet
with the sisters of this Stake; felt the same
spirit here that actuated the sisters in St.
George and other Southern settlements.
Counseled the sisters to do all they could
to help the brethren in their various duties.
Was pleased with the reports that were
read, also with their diligence in gleaning
and storing grain; hoped they would con-
tinue faithful in the good work. Exhorted
them to patronize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and other Church Publications.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened in
the usual manner. Sister Snow in her re-
marks referred to the good work these or-
ganizations were doing for our young people,
also the necessity for us to become self-sus-
taining. Suggested that the sisters in the
different settlements form committees and
collect together a good supply of straw, and
learn to braid and work it up into hats for
their husbands, their sons and themselves;
she said they should draw out of the ele-
ments the material they need.
	Sister E. Townsend said she had been
greatly blessed during the past week en-
joying the society of the sisters from Salt
Lake, traveling with them and attending
the meetings which they held in the dif-
ferent settlements; felt it to be one of the
most pleasant weeks of her life. Exhorted
mothers to be very careful in instilling cor-
rect principles into the minds of their chil-
dren, teach them good manners and en-
courage them to be punctual in attending
the Primary Meetings.
	Pres. J. H. Hart in his remarks pointed
out the necessity of building the Logan
Temple; told the sisters to encourage their
husbands and sons in that great work.
	Pres. G Osmond said we are all co-labor-
ers together in building up Zion, should
respond cheerfully to every call made upon
us by the servants of God.
	Apostle C. C. Rich expressed himself as
greatly pleased while listening to the re-
marks made during the Conference, espe-
cially those by the sisters from Salt Lake
City; wished the sisters of this Stake to
improve the present opportunity and get
all the instruction and counsel they possi-
bly could from those sisters, he knew they
were well qualified to counsel and instruct.
Proposed that Prests. J. H. Hart and G.
Osmond, with twenty able-bodied men,
should accompany him to the Logan Tem-
ple saw mill camp, there to celebrate the
Twenty-fourth day of July, the twenty
brethren to remain and work for one month
for the Temple.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction.
	ELIZABETH PUGMIRE,
Stake Corresponding Secretary.


The Portland Oregonian of recent date
says: "Among the passengers from Alaska,
to this city, by steamer California, was Miss
Sallie Ball, who is probably the youngest
Government official holding a commission
in the United States. The little miss,
though but twelve years of age is the duly
appointed postmistress of Sitka and the
manner in which every detail of her office is
attended to is worthy of adoption by more
than one Of the ‘Nasbys’ of this State."


