	FAIRVIEW, July 17, 1879.
Editor Exponent:
	Our Annual Meeting was held on the 14th
of June, 1879, Sister M. A. Hyde, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this Stake,
Sister Frantzen, President of the Relief So-
ciety of Spring City, and her Counselors,
Bros. Larsen and Frantzen, and others of
Spring City, Sister Morrison and her Coun-
selors and others from Mt Pleasant, were
present by invitation. Our President be-
ing absent on account of sickness in her
family, Bishop Tucker took charge of the
meeting. After the usual exercises and
reading of minutes, the financial report
was read as follows: Received since June,
1878, $231 20. Disbursements: Emigra-
tion, $22 75; Manti Temple, $82 00; Chari-
table purposes, $134 13; Missionaries, $5 00;
Total disbursements, $243 88; Property on
hand, $226 46; Grain stored, 372 bu.
	After the reading of the report Sister
Hyde spoke mostly to the young; said the
girls held the reins to the extent of their
influence over the young men. They
should not countenance those who use pro-
fane language or intoxicating drinks. Rec-
ommended the organization of Primary
Associations, and gave much good instruc-
tion to parents. She was followed by Sis-
ters Frantzen, Morrison, Allred, and others,
who spoke well. Bro. Larsen, of Spring City,
spoke very encouragingly; said the sisters
were doing a good work in looking after
the needy and storing grain, and the time
would come when the Relief Societies would
be considered as Saviors in Zion. Several
other brethren and sisters made some re-

[Column 2]

marks. Bishop Tucker said he thought the
time had been well spent; felt an interest
in the Relief Societies, and felt to bless all
who were working for the interest of Zion.
	It was moved and carried unanimously
that we sustain our officers as they stand.
A good spirit prevailed throughout the
meeting. Dismissed by singing by the
choir and benediction by Bro. Frantzen,after
which a picnic supper was served, when all
adjourned to the schoolhouse, where a party
was given by the Society.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres't,
