				AUGUSTA JOYCE CRICHERON.
May 20th, 187[-].


[For the EXPONENT.
PRAYER.
At the close of day, when the beautiful
stars of heaven are twinkling with a sweet,
soothing, soul-inspiring light, filling our
heart with awe and humility, pouring into
our souls,  with  sweet unconsciousness,
thoughts of heaven, of the dwelling place
of our great and noble Father, ideas of an
eternal home of happiness, peace and tran-
quility; when as we gaze upwards to those
beautiful orbs of heavenly light,  when He
touches softly a chord of the heart, the vi-
brations of which say kindly though firmly
to our fiercer feelings, "Peace! be still!"
what is more  beautiful than prayer?
Can we help saying in our hearts:  "O
God, forgive us, for we have sinned much
and long! help us, O our much loved Father,
help us to live in the future a far better life
than in the past, that we may at length re-
tire to the loving arms of Thy holy rest?"
Gladly  would we now, if we dared and
could breathe away the bound that keeps
us from heaven, accept his sweet offer,  "Ye
who are weary and heavy laden come unto
me and I will give you rest;" yes, yes, we
 feel that we must go now, we cannot again
withdraw our eyes and our souls from those
glorious planets that speak so eloquently of 
the greatness, power, and magnitude of
God; we would fain ask for the rest that is
offered us and discover a perpetual home
in one of those bright orbs, where "the 
weary are at rest."  But no, we dare not;
for even in our pure revery, our heavenly
contemplations, a shadow lingers near us;
aye, it rest upon us; it remains with us, al-
though the Holy Spirit hath chased away
all evil thoughts and feelings from our
hearts at the present moment, although we
have, all unconsciously, resolved never,
never to sin again, still that shadow lingers;
it is the shadow of past sin, the shadow of
doubt.  As long as it remains with us we
dare not leave this mortal sphere; we hope
that by remaining here a little longer we
will be able to expiate for our past tollies,
and drive away the shadow that haunts us.
Yes, even in our holy communion with the
stars, those worlds of light and beauty, we
are conscious of its presence; so are the 
stars, for they seem to look upon us half-
reproachfullym half sorrowfully for our 
former weaknesses.
But even while they reproach us they
seem to beckon us onward, to lure us on to
better paths, that we, through our strug-
gles and victories, may sometime attain to 
them and to their glory.  They speak of a
life full of happiness, glory, and spotless
purity, even as they are.  They are beacon
lights of hope set upon the shore of eter-
nity, to guide us to heaven.  True, the
ocean of life that intervenes between them
and us is broad, and deep, and dark, the 
desert is great and dreary; but let us not 
"faint by the wayside," overcome with op-
pression and toil: let us not become terror-
stricken when clouds "black as midnight"
gather upon the sky above the ocean of life,
when lightning flashes are borne to view,
thrilling  strong  hearts  with  terror  and 
dread,  when  storms  gather  around  us,
threatening  to wreck  our frail barque  and
to sink us to  the bottom, with the troubled
billows rolling over our heads, lulling us to
rest at last; let us not murmur, or fear, but
remember that "our Father is at the helm,"
and He will guide us safely to that longed-
for shore.  Let  us  not  forget  to  remain a 
few moments at the many verdant oasis
which he has spread broadcast along the
desert of life, to quench our burning thirst,
to cool the hot fever on our brow, to refresh
our worn and weary bodies.
Yes, we have a long way to travel ere
we reach that brilliant shore, but the voice
of God whispers in comforting accents
"Hope on! hope ever! despair not! love
me, trust me, and I will guide you safely
to that heavenly home of eternal rest!" Oh,
with what joy and calm ecstasy do those
words of reassurance and love thrill through
our souls!  We realize the greatness of His
love and forgiveness, and we cannot refrain
from exclaiming:  "Praise ye the Lord!"
Prayer!  What is its object?  A sweet
communion of soul to soul, the to us invisi-
ble speaking to the almost unconscious soul
of the visible.  The answering of anything
asked in Christ's name, as far as it is wise
in the all-seeing, unfathomable depths of
wisdom of God.
Prayer!  Holy Messenger of Holy Peace!
Ely as the sunbeans to the realms of light,
where my Father dwelleth; tell Him of the
sufferings of His sinful child- how I have
sinned and suffered this day; tell Him of 
my repentance, my struggles to overcome;
of my failure, my weakness; bid Him send
me immediately greater strength, greater
power and greater courage, to fight, to en-
dure, and to carry on the warfare against
my enemy, sin, that I may not become the 
victim of my Father's foe.  Tell him how 
I love Him, how I worship and adore Him,
how I will constantly struggle to gain His
presence, for I yearn for it, I crave it; bid
Him send to me, to guard my every action,
to comfort and soothe through trial's dark
hour, His holy guardian angels.
And to-morrow, Holy Prayer, ascend
again, as I arise from my couch of slumber
and temporary rest; ascend again to Him
whom I love above all else; inform Him of
my gratitude for the night's peace; entreat
Him to guard me during this day from
sin and folly, that I may be worthy of His
blessings and guardianship.
Ascend constantly, O  Prayer, from the 
depths of my soul to my Savior, my Re-
deemer, my God and Father!  Ascend con-
stantly, mounted on the wings of love, and
upborne on the arms of faith.  Let thy elo-
quence and beauty be the purity, the hu-
mility and the fervency of my soul; then
surely will my Father hear me, believe me,
and respond with His boundless love and
mercy, for He is an impartial God; He will
surely help me to "love much and be for-
given."
	MARIA M. MILLER.
Richfield, Utah.


