BABY-STARVING IN BOSTON.

	The "Traveller" recently published a
startling account of the manner in which
baby-farming is carried on in the neighbor-
hood of Boston, and a medical student in a
college not far from this city has added the
result of his experience, which shows the
great morality at baby-farms and the ease
with which the bodies of infants can be ob-
tained for dissection. This student publicly
said that a certain person was applied to for
a regular supply of children's bodies for a
number of students. A low price was
agreed upon and the students were furnished
with the dissecting materials. As fast as
one lot was exhausted another supply was
sent to them until they had received nearly
three hundred dollars.
	Dr. Dixwell, who bears the same relation
to the Boston Society for the Prevention of
cruelty to Children that Mr. Jenkins does
to the New York society, said to a "Travel-
ler reporter: "There is much baby farming
carried on in Boston in a small way. Some
hag will hire apartments in an obscure street,
take half a dozen babies to nurse, and by
keeping them on a low diet succeed in mak-
ing money. It is necessary that she should
have physicians associated with her to
sign certificates of death, but this
matter is easily arranged with unscru-
pulous men. When the death list becomes
too large they soon learn to keep it to them-
selves. There is really no inspection of
these places, the number of inmates is not
known, and a death excites no suspicion.
The Board of Health attempts to supervise
these places and has issued a demand that
all children taken to board above the num-
ber of three under one year old shall be
registered. There are no special powers
given to its officers to enter any of these
places without a warrant, and they do not
feel disposed to lay themselves liable for
trespass. However, our officers have never
let such a consideration weigh for a mo-
ment when it was thought necessary to
make an investigation.
	"One of these abodes of disease and
death was in James Place. We visited it
and were shown into a room which was
rank with foul odors, and where seven chil-
dren, white and black, all of them under a
year and a half old, were huddled together
on a "shake-down"  One of them was
sadly diseased and another was very sickly.
One of the healthier children was feeding
out of the same bottle used by a child with
a contagious disease. In a quart jar was a
mixture of molasses and laudanum, which
was used as a "soothing syrup" and which
accounted for the starved and pinched faces
and fractious tempers of the children. The
old crone who kept the house had the repu-
tation of being a witch. We requested her
to bring us two children from above, which
she did, dragging one of them by the wrist,
while the other was carried under her arm
like an umbrella. On application to the
Board of Health, the place was broken up.
	"In a similar place on Kinnaird street
slow starvation was carried on. The chil-
dren had apparently good natural constitu-
tions, but their bones were sticking through
their skin. They were in a rear room,
which the woman refused to open to us at
first. It was very warm, but the windows
were all closed and wraps were piled on the
cribs. The children were sleeping with
the pupils of their eyes strongly contracted
—an unmistakable evidence of opium—and
they were in a state of uncleanliness sick-
ening to behold. But their chief suffering
appeared to be from lack of food. We gave
some milk to two of them, and they de-

[Column 2]

voured it with an eagerness which could
have been produced only by starvation
One of our men asked the "medical gen-
tleman" in attendance what was the matter
wifh a certain child at this place, and he
answered, "Chronic hydroecphalus." No
such disease existed. The child was taken
away and cared for, and is in a fair way to 
recover. Of course these people devise
ridiculous stories to account for the sickness
of their "boarders" when an attempt is
made at investigation. In this case the
woman told us that the mother of this
child brought a poisoned rose and waved it
across the nose of her infant, and that the
odor of the flower was so very rank that
everybody in the house complained. There
was one of these places near the Massachu-
setts General Hospital where they were so
careless a while ago that they allowed one
of their children to tumble out of a fourth-
story window and break its neck. The diet
in all these "farms" is of the most inexpen-
sive kind, and the milk is greatly diluted.
Then the various "soothing syrups" make
the children quiet and take away their ap-
petites in a great degree. So much for the
petty places. If I were at liberty to speak
of the large "farms," such as exist at Wor-
cester and Westfield, and in fact in almost
every county. there would indeed be a
revelation. These are private institutions
backed by wealthy men. We have had
two or three of them under watch for some
time. We have 300 men in the different
districts and a dozen here, and besides we
are in communication with the kindred so-
cieties at New York and Philadelphia and
Portsmouth, N. H., forming a complete
allied children's society. If it chances that
some of our men are known, we can obtain
others very quickly. We intend to ferret
out this thing and stop it.
	"At Tewkesbury the mortality among
the children is very large. The reason is
that the help are paupers, and the women
are old and helpless. It is the best the State
can give at present, but it is not good
enough to keep the children alive. Last
year the supervisors of the institution rec-
ommended that no infant under one year
should be sent to Tewkesbury, but if possi-
ble placed in the Massachusetts infant Asy-
lum. This is a semi-public institution. It
receives $4 a week for every infant which
the State sends there. An infant can be
well cared for for $2 a week. If we could
receive the price paid to the Infant Asylum
we could make the infants we pick up out
of the streets pay for all the rest of our
children. But it is an exclusive thing and
we cannot get it. I do not favor the revi-
val of any system that tends to encourage
illegitimacy of birth, but when you have a
healthy child to dispose of and have to send
it to an institution where it cannot receive
proper care, it seems too bad that there is
not a properly organized and legalized place
to which you can conscientiously send it.
I see no way to remedy the evil except to
take from the Infant Asylum its exclusive
State patronage and offer the four dollars a
week to other institutions. Then every
child would be taken care of. As it is now
there is an immense waste of human life,
which registration does not show. You
could form some idea of it if you knew
how many bodies are found in the river,
sold to the medical students, and picked up
in all sorts of places. While I lament the
prevalence of illegitimate children, I think
we are called upon to take care of them
and provide for their moral as well as bodily
growth in a proper manner."
	These revelations obtained by the "Trav-
eller" make it certain that a branch of your

[Column 3]

State Charities Aid Association is as much
needed in Boston as in Philadelphia, where
treatment in a house of refuge drives young
boys to suicide.—Boston Correspondence of
the N. Y. World.


