BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Shakespeare! There is but one Shakes-
peare! he is inimitable in the full sense of
the word in every part of his life and char-
acter. Little is known of his private his-
tory, and most of that little is traditionary;
there is a mystery around him, which he
seemed desirous to enhance. He wrote his
own epitaph, and in it pronounced a curse
upon any one who should remove his body
—as he anticipated that his country would
desire to have him entombed in her national
mausoleum; respecting his strong injunc-
tion the nation satisfied itself by erecting a
monunment to him in Westminster Abbey
and the Church of Stratford, on Avon has
retained the illustrious Dead! Stratford, it is
perhaps needless to say, was his birthplace,
and a more lovely spot and all its environs
could hardly be found: it is surrounded by
immortal scenes, and edifices, Leamington
Kenilworth, Warwick Castle, Guy's Cliff,
Coventry with its immortal Lady Godiva,
and other scenes, all lovely as Eden or at
least so they seemed to me. Amid such
scenes was the immortal Bard born and
reared; these I presume were his Tutors, and
his Alma Mater; for I have never heard that
he had any other and yet what depth, what
erudition, what insight into the workings of
the human heart and brain do his works
display; there is also, as in all great writers
prophetic spirit and insight into the beyond;

[Column 2]
In his Midsummer Night's Dream these
words occur "I will girdle the Earth with a
thought." Was not such a thought the embryo
of the electric Telegraph: his works contain
his Life, his heart, his brain, his thoughts, his
feeling, his entire comprehension of human
nature, even to a marvel! his dramatic com-
positions show this, and how few can read,
and properly embody his characters. It re-
quires a John Kemble a Mrs Siddons a
Garrick, an Edmund Kean, a Charles Kean,
and his gifted wife, the imimitable Dowton
and a few others, to personate fully the
characters so few can read. Shakespeare was
a great favorite with Queen Elizabeth she
called him "Will Shakespeare and often sent
for him to Court to read his plays to her;
she also witnessed their performance as he
frequently personated his own characters.
Her box was at the side of the stage; and
she once told her Ladies, she would see if
she could not disconcert him in his character
of a King. Of course the Ladies were all on
the qui-vive to see the feint the Queen was
going to play off upon him. In making the
moves he approached the Queen's box, when
watching her opportunity she dropt her
handkerchief upon the stage; Shakespeare as
King, was surrounded by his Courtiers, and
addressing them, when the handkerchief fell
at his feet. Not losing one particle of his
kingly dignity he calmly turned to one of
the gentlemen and said "before we proceed,
pick up Our Sister's handkerchief" he neither
compromised the character he was enacting
or that of a gentlman. Though the Queen of
England and a proud Tudor she was delight-
ed at the complete embodiment the calm pres-
ence of mind and perfect realization of the
character he was sustaining which he ex-
hibited on her stratagem to throw him off
his guard. Ben Jonson was a poet and an
extraordinary wit of the day, and when he
saw Garrick perform Shylock, he exclaimed
aloud;

"This is the Jew.
That Shakespeare drew"!

Those few words are an epitome of just and
appreciative criticism both to the author,
and to the actor, and have stood as a de-
cided aphorism ever since. Shakespeare
lived in a coarse, dark age, but Shakespeare
and Elizabeth were lights in the world and
their names are among the immortals, "Not
for an age but for all time."


For the EXPONENT.
