PROSPECTUS.

	Every intelligent person desires to travel,
and, if this be imposible, desires to learn
what travelers have seen and heard and ex-
perienced in all parts of the world. Many
an ambitious boy has left home comforts
and bright prospects on shore and cheerfully
encountered the hardships and perils of a
sailor's life, that he might visit foreign lands
and learn something of other countries than
his own The most enlightened govern-
ments have often sent out costly expeditions
to circumnavigate the globe and inquire in-
to the phenomena of nature in every clime,
and the manners, customs and resources of
strange nations; and the stores of infor-
mation thus obtained have been published
for the benefit of mankind In more recent
times enterprising individuals have, at their
own expense, organized parties for the
general exploration of unknown regions,
for special scientific research, or for furnish-
ing the advantages of travel to those who
could spare but a limited amount of time
and money for this object.
	The Woodruff Scientific Expedition
Around the World is undoubtedly the grand
est and most attractive undertaking of this
kind that has ever been projected, and
has awakened the liveliest interest through-
out the country. It has been for a consider-
able time before the public, and has steadily
grown in favor with the people. The diffi-
culties which pioneers in all great and
novel enterprise[-] must meet and overcome
have by no means discouraged its managers
and patrons, and they propose to persist in
all reasonable and honorable effort until
some, at least, of its magnificent possibilities
have been realized. This Expedition has
been very appropriately named a floating
college because it is to be an educational
institution of high order, well organized,
thoroughly equipped and located upon a
first class iron steamship which is to under-
take a voyage around the globe. The Clyde-
built steamer General Werder has been
selected for the use of the Expedition and
fitted with every convenience for the ac-
commodation of two hundred and fifty pro-
fessors and students. She has been inspected
and approved by officers of the United
States Navy, and granted an American reg-
ister for the purposes of the Expedition by
a special act of Congress. Naval officers of
large experience and the highest reputation
will be appointed to command and navigate
the ship, and the journey of nearly forty
thousand miles on the land and the ocean
will occupy eighteen months, and will be so
planned as to reach all the principal cities of
the world in the most favorable season of
the year.
	President W. S. Clark, of Amherst, Mass.,
will have entire control of the educational
department instruction. The students will
be furnished with uniforms and cadet rifles,
and thoroughly drilled in military and
gymnastic exercises with special reference
to physical culture and the preservation of
vigorous health.
	The best sanitary and police regulations
will be enforced, and the highest Christian
morality inculcated, while gambling and
indulgence in alcoholic liquors will be


[Column 1]
strictly forbiden. The students will be
divided into suitable sections according to
their ability and attainments, and each sec-
tion will be under the particular care of a
competent professor, though receiving in-
struction also from others. The course of
study will be arranged to meet the neces-
sities and tastes of every student so far as
possible, but all will be required to attend
faithfully to the duties assigned. Persistent
disobedience will be followed by discharge
from the ship, with a free passage home by
the most direct route.
	Books, maps, diagrams, apparatus and
other necessary appliances for study and
investigation, will be provided for the use
of all members of the Expedition. Detailed
information concerning the officers, the ship
the organization and the course of instruc-
tion, may be found in our own paper.
It is confidently believed that the thought
time and money hitherto bestowed upon
this novel educational institution has been
well expended, and that the results, as seen
in the present arrangements, will meet the
entire approval of the most experienced
travelers, the most prudent parents and
guardians.
	In response to the numerous favorable
notices which have appeared from time to
time during the past winter in the public
prints, hundreds of applications have been
received from young men who were ready
and eager to join the Expedition upon any
terms but the payment of a large sum of
money. Students from vairous institutions
in all parts of the United States and Canada,
and even graduates of colleges, have begged
the privilege of serving as sailors, waiters,
or in any other capacity, for the sake of see-
ing the world and participating in the bene-
fit of the proposed voyage. Inasmuch, how-
ever, as more than half a million dollars are
required to defray the unavoidable expenses
of the Expedition, and as it is not a bene-
volent institution, it is evident that "those
who dance must pay the piper. While a
considerable number of the applicants are
able and willing to give satisfactory security
for the cash payment of the required fees,
there is still a large majority who are al-
most with out pecuniary abi[-]ity and yet
would cheerfully make great sacrifices to
enjoy the advantages offered. Special ef-
forts have therefore been made to devise
some means by which this numerous class
of ambitious and worthy students might se-
cure for themselves free scholarship.
	It has long been the intention of the man-
agers to publish an illustrated weekly jour-
nal of the Expedition, to be printed regu-
larly on board ship and to contain all the
most interesting facts and observations
which might come to the knowledge of its
members. Such a publication under proper
supervision would be a powerful and con-
stant stimulus to all the faculty and students
to observe accurately and record correctly,
and in a pleasing manner, the incidents of
the voyage, and whatever was new and note-
worthy in the varied scenes through which
they might pass. A copy of this paper sent
to friends at home would answer the pur-
pose of many letters, and thus save an im-
mense amount of time and labor for better
uses. As soon as it became known last
winter, when it was expected the Expedi-
tion would sail on the eighth of May, that
such a journal was to be issued from the
ship in whatever port she might happen to
be on the day of publication, and that the
seventy-eight weekly numbers could be
obtained, postage free, for five dollars, sub-
scriptions began to come in from all parts of
the country. It was at once demonstrated
that the people would gladly welcome so

[Column 2]
unique a newspaper, especially if carefully
edited, neatly printed, and well illustrated
by original sketches and photographs pre-
pared by the artists of the Expedition.
	When on the eighth of May it was found
that less than half the requisite number of
students had deposited their fees with
Messrs. Drexel, Morgan & Co., the bankers
of the Expedition, it was promptly decided
to return the money to the depositors ac-
cording to contract, and to try a new scheme
for the accomplishment of the desired ob-
ject. Students were abundant, while funds
were scarce. Both were essential to suc-
cess, and success in so good a cause seemed
to be duty. After much deliberation it has
been determined to offer the following
terms to all young men of correct habits,
who have attained the age of fifteen years
and are well versed in the common English
branches of education.
	First, the sum of three thousand dollars,
paid in advance on or before the day of sail-
ing from New York, will defray for one
student all the expenses of the voyage on
ship and shore, including washing, books
and uniform.
	Secondly, a free scholarship, including all
expenses as above specified, will be granted
to any appli[-]a[-]t qualified as above indicated,
who shall secure six hundred cash subscribers
at five dollars each, to the paper called
AROUND THE WORLD, of which this may be
regarded as a sample number.
	Thirdly, any eligible person may pay his
fee partly in money, and partly in subscrip-
tion at the above-named rates.
	Finally, any person, desiring to act as
agent for the Expedition [-]n obtaining sub-
scribers, will receive authority and full
instruction on application to Woodruff
Expedition, St. Nicholas Hotel, New York.
A certificate will be given to every agent at
the close of his engagment, stating how
many subscribers he has obtained; and, if
he does not wish to avail himself of a scholar-
ship, he may sell or otherwise transfer the
number placed to his credit to any eligible
person who may desire to join the Expedi-
tion, and who shall recive for the same the
full value of five dollars each in the pay-
ment of his fee. In lieu of other compensa-
tion, any agent will, on application to the
office be paid, before the sailing of the 
Expedition, twenty five cents in money for
each subscriber he may have obtained. As
soon as two hundred students have secured
their membership in any one of the ways
specified, notice will be given to all agents
of the fact, and the day of sailing will be
announced as soon as practicable thereafter.
Excellent accommodations will be provided
for all who are accepted as students, and
the state-rooms will be assigned by lot by
the purser on board ship. Subsequent
changes for the convenience of individuals
will be made as may be found desirable.
	All money received for subscription or in
payment of fees, will remain on deposit
until the sailing of the Expedition is as-
sured, and will then be drawn for use in
defraying necessary expenses only by drafts
countersigned by a majority of its three
trustees. In case two hundred students
should not be enrolled after a reasonable
time, and the Expedition for any cause
should be abandoned, all money for sub-
scription and fees in the hands of the
treasurers will be forwarded forthwith to
the several owners thereof on return of the
receipts for the same.
	From the foregoing statement it will be
seen that the Woodruff Expedition is not 
abandoned, but is in a healthy and hopeful
condition. It is now more widely and
favorably known than ever before, and has

[Column 3]
been reduced to a plan which seems both
feasible and attractive, and which places its
advantages within the reach of any enter-
prising and energetic young man. If its
numerous friends will kindly render it the
assistance it deserves, there will be little
difficulty in securing one hundred thousand
subscribers to AROUND THE WORLD, and
two hundred students will soon be en-
rolled for one of the most romantic, delight-
ful and instructive excursions ever under-
taken.


