HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE on hand reports from several
branches of women's organizations that we
intend publishing as soon as possible.
	WE WISH to say that during our trip South
we found some sisters practically engaged in
raising cocoons. The finest and largest quanti-
ties were those raised by Sister Maria Larsen
at Spring City, and Sister Rebecca Wareham
at Manti,
	WE FIND it necessary to again remind our
contributors that when they send articles for
publication they must send the editor their real
name. Recently we have received articles with
fictitious signatures, and the name of the
writer withheld.
	On Monday, August 4, three of the Twelve
Apostles were committed to prison for con-
tempt, in not complying with the requisition
of the order of the Court, which they affirm was
absolutely impossible. To-day this case come
up before the newly appointed Judge, but it is
again postponed until to-morrow. They have
our earnest prayers and sincere sympathy, and
we trust they will not have to remain long "in
durance vile."
	BROTHER GRAVES of Provo, who travels in
the interest of sericulture, called at our office
and informed us he had taken from the North
to Provo sufficient silk to make seventy-five
yards, and that they were already making
black satin. A meeting of the Silk Associa-
tion of Weber Stake will be held in Ogden on
Aug. 30, at which time a full report will be
given of the condition of sericulture in that
county, the number of mulberry trees, also co-
coons and silk-worm eggs. 
	GOV. BRAYMAN, of Idaho, is paying a short
visit to our Territory. He is on his way back
to Boise City, after a short visit to his home in
Wisconsin, and also to the seat of government
in Washington. The Governor was one of the
peace commissioners who visited Nauvoo at the
time of the exodus of the Mormon people; sent
there by the Governor of Illinois. He is a ge-
nial and cultivated gentleman, and is well
posted in regard to this people. We like to
meet such persons, have them visit our Terri-
tory and become acquainted with its institu-
tions. We wish the Governor a pleasant and
safe journey to his field of labors.
	MISS AMY Sherwin and Mrs. Murtha Por-
theus have recently visited our city and won
the admiration of a host of music lovers. The
concert given on Monday the 11th inst., was one
of the most interesting entertainments given
here this summer. Miss Sherwin has a remark-
ably fine, clear voice, and acted the part of Leo-


n ora, in the prison scene from Il'Trovatore, in a
manner that completely charmed the audience
and won expressions of applause from all sides.
The gem of the evenings, however, was the
duet, "O Sainted Mother," from Maritana, by
Miss Sherwin and Miss Olsen.  The other la-
dies and gentlemen who took part in the per-
formance also deserve special mention, but
space will not allow.  On the whole the con-
cert was very succe[-]sful as an entertainment,
and we regret to say it was not so financially.
The performance certainly deserved a better
house, and it is to be hoped that the public
taste will rise to a higher degree of apprecia-
tion than it now possesses.  Friday evening
the Pinafore was again presented, with some
interesting changes of scenery and character.
Josephine, represented by Miss Sherwin, was a
more charming character than ever.
	LADIES' MEETING in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Aug  2, was ex-
tremely interesting. Counselor Phebe Wood-
ruff presided.  The minutes from Y. L.  M.  I.
Associations and Primary Associations were
very good indeed, and show a marked progress.
Counselors P. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, E.
Howard and another sister addressed the meet-
ing, dwelling much upon the troubles of the 
present time, the injustice of the measures
taken by those who are opposed to this king-
dom; the sisters were exhorted to be prayerful
and diligent in doing their duty and keeping
the commandments of God.  Sister Howard
made a short political speech, in which she ad-
vised the sisters to go to the polls and vote at
the coming election.  These meetings are an
educational institution, where women are
taught and instructed in the practical duties of
life, and are of the greatest mutual benefit.
Here the daughters of Zion may become ac-
quainted with the experiences of the elder sis-
ters, and learn to profit by their large and long
experiences. These general meetings are to
the local Relief Societies what the high school
is to the district schools.  The sisters who teach
in these meetings are capable of feeding the
souls of their hearers with spiritual food, fresh
from the fountains of life and light.
	Minutes of a Meeting of the Ladies of Utah
Co. held in Provo City, Aug. 1, 1879, Pres A. C.
Smoot and David John of the Presidency of the
Stake. Bps Harington and Paxmam and many
of the prominent Ladies of the County: after
the usual devotional exercis[--], Pres A  O. Smoot
arose and stated the business of the meeting to
be the organization of a Silk Association or
Utah Stake; also to organize the Association in-
to three districts.  After further remarks en-
couraging the enterprize, the Election of officers
was proceeded with as follows:  Silk orgnization
Margaret T Smoot, President;  Mary  John
and Addie  D[-]sen[-]er, Counselors;  Albert
Jones, Secretary; William Paxman, Trea[-]urer;
Daniel Graves, Traveling Agent; Central Dis-
trict, Provo, Springville, Spanish Fork; Esther
A. Beebe. President; Lucy W. Kimball, and
Sarah Goodman, Counselers; Hannah Booth,
Secretary; Ann T. Dugdale, Treasurer; North-
ern District, North of Provo, Mary Hindley,
President; Ellen D. Clark, and Meilisa Mott,
Counselors; Emma Fatherstone, Secretary;
Mary Shelley, Treasure[-]; Southern Distrect,
South of Spanish Fork, Agnes Douglas, Presi-
dent; Susin Fairbank[-], and M[-]ry Mo ore,Coun-
selors; Matilda D. Dixon, Secretary; Elizabeth,
Tanner, Treasurer.  At the Counclusion of the
Election the officers were set apart to their re-
spective officers by the Priside[-]cy of the Stake
assisted by Bishops Harington and Paxman;
after which Pres. A. O. Smoot advised the offi-
ciers of the Districts to help the Saints of the
several wards in their selections of ward officers
meeting then adjourned until 6,30, P.M.
	After prayer by Bishop W. Paxman, Presi-
dent Margaret Smoot intreduced Mary Hin-
ley of American Fork who had business to
present connected with the County orgniza-
tion.  Mrs. Hindley called upon the Secertary
of the County Association, Mrs  Fatherstone
who read the Reports of the Assocation; the
Finances showing a balance in hand of $77 24
Mrs. Hindley then announc[-]d the dissultion of
the County Association under her presidency
and expressed her desire that her late officers
and fellow laborers would attach themselves to
the new organization with the same diligence
that they had shown under her administration;
Elder Daniel Graves. moved a vote of thanks
to Sister Hindley and out  going-officers for
their diligence in the cause of Sericulture. Car-
ried unamious.
	Mrs. Zina Young Williams, after expressing
her interest in the work presented the Stake Or-
ganization with five hundred Mulberry Trees;
from her Cocoonery Grounds situated in Salt
Lake County.
Pres Margaret.  T.  Smoot. in behalf of the
Association accepted the gift of Mrs. Williams,
thanking her for her liberal support of the cause-
The former purchasing Agents, Mrs. Clark of
American Fork and Mrs. Douglas of Payson,
were reappointed with instructions to retain
the balance in other hands for purchasing the
present season's crop of cocoons;  Mrs. N Wil-
isams was appointed Purchasing,  Agent for
Provo.   Meeting then adjourned untill the 7th
of November 1879,
A. JONES, Sec'y.


