"NO OUTSIDE MEDDLERS"

	Dear EXPONENT: I have found so sweet a
morsel in a late number of the Woman's
Journal, that I long to share it with such
of your readers as do not have the pleasure
and profit of reading that valuable paper.
Allow me to quote: As to the woman ques-
ton. why not let it be a woman queston?
Why make a man question of it? Women
are competent to decide on their own course
of action. A woman can tell right from
wrong. A woman is as likely to know what
is womanly as a man is.
	Why does man step in to decide for her?
That’s what puzzles me. I am not at all
particular about voting, but what I am par-
ticular about is to know why I do not know


as well as a man does, whether or not it is
right for me to vote, or to "speak.
	"Don't suppose, now, that I wish to do any
of these things, having an outsider stepping
in between me and my conscience to trans-
sact my private business for me."
		MRS. A. M. DIAZ.
	Now I feel just as Mrs. Diaz does, because
I do wish to do these things, and I am
particular about voting; and I think it the
most arrogant presumption for man to as-
sume the right to decide all points of right
and wrong, all questions of propriety or ex-
pediency, and even what is womanly.
	Being a profound believer in reciprocal
rights and duties, I protest aganst further
allowing men's opinions to be our highest
court of appeal until they shall pay the
same high honor to our opinions. (just think,
in that case, of the vast overturning there
would be in the world's affairs!)
	Until that happy day, I insist upon my
right to have and to hold my own opinions,
and to act upon my own judgment, so long
as by doing so I do not infringe upon the
rights of others. And it is just the same in
matters of religion. For instance, I look
upon marriage as the highest and holiest of
sacraments; and when any "outsider" begins
to argue with me that marriage is not re-
ligion but only a civil contract, I want to know
who authorized him to decide for me what
is or is not religion; to settle the case bet-
ween me and my God,
	You see where it hinges, don't you? It is
having an outsider stepping in between
me and my conscience to transact my priv-
ate buisiness for me."
	L. L. D.
St George, Washington Co, U. T.


[For the EXPONENT.
