	THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

	The Mutual Improvement Associations of
Utah and the adjacent Territories have enrolled
a membership of about twenty thousand per-
sons. This host of young people is marshaled
under the banner of Progress and improve-
ment, and is engaged in the pursuit of religious,
scientific, historic and literary knowledge.
	Up to the present time the Associations have
had no general representative publication de-
voted to their interests, though the growth of 
the organization, the character of its exercises,
and the development of literary talent among
its members have long required, and now de-
mand such an organ.
	To meet this requirement, we were induced
to address a proposition to the authorities of 
the Church, to publis a Monthly Magazine.
They gave it their sanction and approval, and 
authorized us to canvass the Associations for 
subscribers and contributions, and if we were
justified by the support given, to commence
its publication.
	Favorable assurance of interest aud encour-
agement having been received from many
parts of the Territory, we have made our ar-
rangements for publication, and propose to 
issue the first number of the Magazine on Oc-
tober 1, 1879.
	Among its contents will be found articles
upon Doctrine, Sacred and General History,
Science, Literature, Art, Music, Biography and 
Travel;  Correspondence of Missionaries, from
all parts of the world; Association Intelligence,
and instructive essays on their growth and 
progress;  Poetry, Wit and Humor, Words of 
Wisdom, etc.
	The Magazine will contain twenty-four
double column pages of reading matter.  It
will be printed upon heavy white paper, in 
clear, new type, with a colored cover and fly-
leaf of advertisements, that will be torn off
when bound.  It will make, each year, a hand-
some octavo volume of 288 pages, being a com-
panion book to the "Millennial Star" and 
"Journal of Discourses."
	We urge the Associations to adopt and con-
tinue the exercises of writing essasys and com-
positions, and the publishing of manuscript
papers, that all possible encouragement may
be given to those having ability to write.
The officers and members of Associations are
requested, whenever articles appear possessing
intrinsic or literary worth, to secure them, and 
forward them to our office for publication.
	We desire the young ladies and gentlemen
of the Associations to feel perfect liberty in
writing for the Magazine, and that they un-
derstand it is distinctively a society publica-
tion, devoted to their welfare, that they can
call "our paper."
	In regard to subscriptions, we respectfully
request the Stake Superintendents and the 
Presidents and other officers of the Associa-
tions to interest themselves in circulating this 
Prospectus, and urging the members to sub-
scribe at once for the Magazine. Agents for
collections will be appointed as soon as prac-
ticable.
	Terms of subscription, two dollars a year in 
advance. Remittances should be promp ly
made by P. O. Money Order, or Registered Let-
ter.
	Address all communications to Junius F.
Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah. P. O. Box 402.


