Remembering the Birthday of President Grant THIS November, President Grant would have been eighty-nine years old had his life been spared a few months longer. Members of the Church and a multitude of friends, all over the world will remember President Grant's birthday with gratitude and thanksgiving, appreciating the faithful and inspired service he rendered, his love and kindness that reached beyond his family, beyond his Church, and to an ever-widening circle of friends and associates. Among the hundreds of letters which poured into the homes of President Grant's family, following his demise, there are none which exhibit more reverence for him and more understanding of his true greatness than those written by his grandsons in the armed forces. Excerpts from some of these letters follow: PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT Page 647 In Italy, these words were penned to Sister Grant: I'm sure that Grandfather was a great man. His calling as God's servant was evidence that he was one of the Lord's choicest children. I'm thankful tonight for my noble heritage. I'm thankful for having known and loved my Grandfather. I'm thankful for his testimony of the gospel because it has helped me to understand life and the part I should play in it. Many times a person who has achieved greatness is misunderstood and his personal life is very often one of trouble and unhappiness. But such was not the case with Grandfather. One of the greatest joys he experienced was the love and understanding which you and his children have shown him. You created a home, and though sometimes it was in foreign places, it was ever a haven of love and peace where he could come. From Germany, another grandson wrote: It is hard to express one's thoughts at this time. They are intermixed with memories of the greatness and goodness of Grandfather's life and the knowledge that he is now released from a burden which he carried so cheerfully during his last years. Knowing this, we have little cause to mourn. We can only express our gratitude for the wonderful influence he had on our lives and the secure knowledge we have that we will be with him again. An expression written in Panama reads: I have relived a great many of the moments I was privileged to spend in the presence of this truly great man, and in so doing I have been awed at how richly endowed he was with character and personality and a fine zest for living. The greatest lesson he leaves for me is in his unquenchable spirit. My fondest memories of him will be of the times when we drove in the mountains with the top down on the car while he sang with a gusto which came from his deep and abiding love for the natural works of God. All of us whose lives have been touched by his owe him a debt which can be paid only in emulation. In Austria, another grandson had this to say: It is comforting to know that on the other side of the veil the joy of Grandfather's coming back and the joy of those welcoming him back far surpasses the sorrow of those who are left behind and who must part with the one they love. I feel so distant and far away to try to help at a time like this. However, there is always one thing that I can do and that is to go on living so that I may merit what has been given me and, in so 4oing, bring happiness to those who have given me so much. In Newfoundland, these words were penned (again to Sister Grant): I have always been proud that I have known both you and Grandfather. Your perfect family life, your cheerfulness, your generosity, your high standards in everything, make me humble indeed in your presence.... Please remember that I am one of the thousands who loved Grandfather and remember, also, that I love you. Space will not permit an inclusion of more excerpts from these letters, except for one which strikes the keynote of President Grant's greatness, for, after all, it was the gospel which made him great. This letter was written by a grandson in the United States: I have never been able to express how proud and humble I have always felt about having him for a grandfather. If I do my best all my life, I wonder if I'll be worthy of the heritage I have,... Thank God for the gospel of Jesus Christ and the absolute realization it brings that we shall see our beloved Grandfather again.