Tables That Tell the Christmas Story Vesta P. Crawford "CHRISTMAS comes but once a year, but when it comes it brings good cheer." This rhyme we learned as children, and there was a special brightness, a lasting splendor, associated with each word. Christmas this year, for most of us, will be a day of quiet rejoicing, a day in which we hope and pray for that lasting peace long ago promised upon the shining hills of Bethlehem. And yet there should be in our homes many visible tokens of joy and cheerfulness; there should be evidence of the spirit of love and giving. It has been said that Christmas was created for children that they might always remember the story of the Babe of Bethlehem and his gift to the world. Surely it is Christmas at home that becomes a never-fading picture in our galleries of good thoughts. One way to make Christmas beautiful is to decorate the dinner table. Let this be planned in advance with all the family participating. Select snow-white linen, a pale gold or light blue cloth, as a fitting background for Christmas colors and Christmas candles. Silver should be polished to jewelled brightness before the celebration. It is fun for the family and the guests to make place cards by putting their names in a box and mixing Page 676 them up. Then let each person draw out a name and make a place card for that person. Here is ample opportunity for the expression of individuality in design. An original verse makes a good place card; a gum-drop base, holding a "sprig" of evergreen is very pretty. Try using a gaily decorated cookie for a place card, or perhaps a little candle. Even a child can make a bright and pleasing decorative card. For that all-important centerpiece, here is a fist of holiday materials that may be used alone or in various delightful combinations: Candles Miniature Christmas chimneys made of cardboard Pine cones and cedar berries Colored Christinas tree decorations Evergreen branches Paper and plastic bells Stars and constellation arrangements Poinsettias Paper chains Mounds of popped corn Jerusalem cherries (bright green leaves and brilliant red berries) Figurines (sheep, shepherds, angels, camels, reindeer) Cotton, arranged to represent snow-mounded hills Cut-out silhouettes of Santa Claus Miniature artificial trees Weeds, grass, or grains, frosted with white enamel and decorated with artificial snow sequins Holly and mistletoe Oranges, grapes, tangerines, apples, or other fruits TABLES THAT TELL THE CHRISTMAS STORY 677 YOUR centerpiece may be as simple as three tall candles or as elaborate as a detailed representation of a cradle scene. You may place a poinsettia plant in the middle of your table, or you may make a minute procession of the Magi as they journey into white-walled Bethlehem. Some of the most beautiful decorative arrangements are the least expensive. Try this one for snow-white enchantment: before the deep snows of winter come, gather thistle twigs, rose-apples, wheat heads, bean pods, blackberry leaves, or similar contributions from the late fall garden. These are all potential ornaments. Dip them in common white enamel and let them dry slightly. Then sprinkle them with artificial snow crystals. Your gleaming twigs may be arranged for a centerpiece to use with a light blue or a pale gold linen cloth. A winter landscape makes a beautiful centerpiece. Use cotton for the hills, evergreen twigs for trees, a mirror for the pool. Amplify the t. Festive Table with Candles and Evergreens scene with a little toy house, a plastic dog, and a cotton lamb. Let Santa Claus approach in his loaded sleigh. Christmas decorating takes a little though a little planning, and much of the spirit of giving. Long afterwards, your children will remember that Christmas at home was bright and beautiful. Santa Claus in a circle of pine cones and evergreen twigs ?Frosted? weeds and evergreens. Colored Christmas tree balls and two red candles. Santa Claus and his sleigh on a ?glassy? pond. The ?trees? in the border are evergreen twigs. ILLUSTRATIONS BY BETTI WILLIAMSON