[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | December | Issue: 4 | Title: Mrs. Frazer’s Book | Author: Unknown]

MRS. FRAZER’S BOOK.
	Mrs. Fraser, sister of F. Marion Craw-
ford, has recently published a new book en-
titled “Reminiscences of a Diplomatist’s
Wife,” in which there are many references
and memories of her talented brother. One
of Mrs. Fraser’s interesting memories of
many printed in “The Bookman,” is a day
spent at Pompeii with her brother when he
was full of his book “Zoroaster.” It was a
day all blue and white, of the thousand clear
and tender shades, that the verticle mid-day
sun of the south draws from marble and
sky and sea, and they were reconstructing
the Pompeii of two thousand years ago with
the fine Roman ladies and their lords and
cavaliers and troops of clever slaves, the
dancers and singers, the busy shop keepers
and the smart garrison and the brown fisher
folk, when Marion began to read the “Chant
of the Priests” which he had just written
for the opening chapter of “Zoroaster.” He
was always a wonderful reader, with his
full voice, his restrained and sonorous bal-
ancing of phrase. But that day some strong
compelling chord had been touched and
Mrs. Fraser recalls that after the first few
words his hearers were in Italy no longer,
but in the heart of the older world, the gor-
geous, gold-clothed, sun-worshipping near-
East.”
	The memories of Crawford recall to mind
his visit to Salt Lake City and how he was
entertained at the Bee Hive House, then the
residence of Spencer Clawson, by the Utah
Woman’s Press Club. He gave a most de-
lightful lecture in the city which, like many
other of our splendid opportunities, was only
slightly appreciated and now that this great
novelist is no more we realize our neglect.
But in the perusal of Mrs. Fraser’s book
there are many glimpses of his greatness
which those who met him will read with
pleasure.
	
						A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
