[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | December | Issue: 4 | Title: Notes About Women | Author: VINCY R. BARKER]

		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	For the first time in Colorado’s history a
woman has been elected State Senator. She
is Mrs. Helen Ring Robinson of Denver,
book reviewer of the Rocky Mountain News.
She will take her seat when the General
Assembly convenes in January.
	A considerable number of women have
sat in the Lower House at different times,
but a woman. Senator is an innovation—
even in Colorado, with its twenty years of
equal suffrage.
	In private life, Mrs. Robinson is the wife
of a Denver lawyer. She took a leading
part in the successful campaign made a few
years ago to keep Denver’s corrupt water
company from securing a twenty-year re-
newal of its franchise, and is a woman,
highly respected. Even before she takes
her seat in the Upper House a movement
has been launched to make her president
pro tem. of the Senate, and she stands a
fair chance, as the Democrats are in the ma-
jority. Mrs. Robinson was elected on the
Democratic ticket. In fact, so popular is
she that she ran far ahead of the ticket.
	Only one other woman in the United
States has ever been chosen State Senator.
Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon was elected
to the Utah Senate some years ago and did
good service there.—Exchange.
	Woman suffrage is to be debated in more
than one hundred high schools throughout
North Carolina in the coming year, as the
result of plans adopted recently by the
State Teachers’ Assembly. The women
teachers also adopted resolutions demanding
that women be appointed to positions on
school boards and on textbook committees.
	“Abigail Scott Duniway, done in her 79th
year.”
	Below the name of Governor Oswald
West upon the proclamation that makes
equal suffrage effective in Oregon, the
counter-signature of Mrs. Duniway, written
by her on November 30, was her final word
in a campaign that has been carried on by
her indomitably for more than 14 years.
	“There,” she said, as she laid down the
pen and the Governor bent over her shoul-
der to place the blotter upon the signature,
“It’s a fact at last.”
	The Portland Oregonian says:
“The proclamation was written by Mrs.
Duniway herself at Governor West’s sug-
gestion, and, with the exception of his sig-
nature and the attesting signature of Sec-
retary of State Olcott, every line upon the
parchment was made by her pen. Before
signing the document Governor West had
her fill out the blanks for numbers and date
lines, so the proclamation might uniformly
be her work.

[Column 2]
	Miss Mary M. Barteleme, for eighteen
years public guardian of Cook county, Ill.,
was inaugurated, Dec. 12, as Chicago’s first
woman judge. Miss Barteleme was the
choice of the judges of the circuit court.
She will assist Judge Pinckney in the juve-
nile court and will direct most of her atten-
tion to girls who come under the court’s
jurisdiction.

	Holland has just had its first suffrage
procession. The Amsterdam Woman Suf-
frage Association lost its president, a pio-
neer worker in the cause and much beloved,
Mrs. Theodora Haver. She was given such
a funeral as no woman in Holland ever had
before. The many equal rights societies
sent banner-bearers and delegates; the bier
was covered with the white and yellow suf-
frage flag, and followed by a multitude of
floral tributes. Then came the relatives,
and after them hundreds of suffragists from
all parts of the country. Preceded by a
band playing Beethoven’s and Chopin’s
funeral marches, the procession wended its
way through the streets of Amsterdam to
the railroad station, whence the body was
taken to Bremen for cremation. The fu-
neral is reported to have made a great fin-
pression.

	Miss Mabel Boardman, secretary of the
American Red Cross, today received from
the White House the insignia of the fifth
Order of Crown, conferred upon her by
the Japanese emperor for distinguished ser-
vice.
	So far as officials here know today it is
the first time an American woman has
been so honored by Japan. The order con-
ferred upon Miss Boardman was specially
established to recognize meritorious service
done by women.
	The insignia was sent to President Taft,
president of the American Red Cross, by
Marquis Matsukati, head of the Japanese
Red Cross. President Taft has written to
the marquis and to the Japanese emperor,
thanking them for the honor paid Miss
Boardman.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board

	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen. $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen. $1.25.
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
		VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.		Ogden, Utah

