[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 721 | Article | At Half-Past Autumn | Peggy Tangren]
[At Half-Past Autumn Peggy Tangren]

Understanding Between Parents and Children Parents and children need to 

725 October 1967

 understand each other better. Often people living under the same roof suffer a lack of harmony, at times there is even bitterness because they are not understood. Young people today face many problems. At times, parents are a problem to their own children. It is surprising how many times we interview children who tell us what an obstacle their parents are: to belief in God, to observance of the commandments, keeping the Sabbath holy, or attending their meetings. It is, of course, true that children are often a problem to their parents. There is no doubt about that. Scholars in one of our great universities, not long ago, made a survey among a large number of families on the matter of juvenile delinquency. They studied not - only the parents, but also the children, and they called in many delinquent children to see if they could find out why they were delinquent—what was at the bottom of this problem. Eighty per cent of these delinquent children said that their parents did not have time for them and did not care what they did, so long as they did not disturb the routine of the parents. The same percentage reported that their parents did not care whom their children chose for friends. Seventy-five per cent of all these delinquent boys and girls said that there was no parental love in the home. Isn't that heartbreaking? That is why there is delinquency. There is one great reason for juvenile delinquency today and for all gangs and mobs—that is the breakdown of family love, harmony, and responsibility. 726 Religion in the Home Another very interesting thing was that the study showed that in homes of these delinquents there was little or no religion whatsoever. Many of these youngsters said that they would like to have some religion, but the parents wouldn't allow it in the home. What a commentary that was!

We believe that if parents and children will endeavor to understand each other, that most of the problems existing in homes can be done away with, providing that all are willing to establish, in the home, an atmosphere where obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ prevails. You know how peace comes. It is the peace of Christ, not as the world giveth. It is the spirit of Christ, which is the spirit of peace; and the only way we can have the spirit of Christ is to obey the gospel of Christ. It is obedience which brings about the sanctifying influence of the spirit of God into every family so that there can then be love at hom and peace. We believe that parents and children ought to sit down together and talk over their family matters on a basis of love and understanding. The most serious problem our young people are faced with today pertains to their personal conduct both in and out of the home. Parents are too often too busy with other things to talk these problems out with their children, and as a result, young people go elsewhere for their direction and are often misled. Back alley advice is never any good.