[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 748 | General Feature | In Memoriam Nada | Rich Brockbank]
IN MEMORIAM NADA RICH BROCKBANK Nada Rich Brockbank, wife of Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 2, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Jesse Pomeroy and Louise Rogers Rich, and was born September 13, 1913, in Paris, Idaho. Sister Brockbank received a teacher's certificate from Utah State Agriculture College, now Utah State University. In 1934 she was married to Elder Brockbank in Washington D. C. The marriage was solemnized in the Salt Lake Temple in 1937. They have five sons and one daughter. Elder Brockbank became the first president of the North British Mission in 1960. Sister Brockbank assisted him by making the mission home a place of welcome to the elders. She supervised Relief Society activities in the mission until Elder Brockbank was called from the North British Mission to pioneer the Scottish-Irish Mission late that same year. Once again she was truly an inspiration both to the elders and to the Relief Society sisters in the mission. Sister Brockbank has given valued service as a Relief Society teacher in her ward. When Elder Brockbank was director of the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair in New York, Sister Brockbank missed no opportunity to welcome visitors and share her testimony of the gospel. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Brockbank and their family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Nada Rich Brockbank be a continuing blessing to them. (- ~ NO SACRIFICE Linnie Fisher Robinson I made a promise in my early youth To sacrifice for thee, dear Lord, above; To learn thy sovereign will, thy every word, And serve my fellows with unstinting love. And I have served in myriad ways And shared with those I found in need; But, oh, the sweetness that came back to me, Repaid so many times each single deed. So never once in all these years, Has there been aught of sacrifice from me; Accept my good desires, through rueful tears,: I have but gained the while and better see. OD 748 UNIFIED STARTING TIME FOR CHURCH PROGRAMS As has been announced previously, all Church curriculum programs, both Priesthood and auxiliary, will begin their year's work on Sept 1, 1967, in the Northern Hemisphere, and March 1, 1968, in the Southern Hemisphere. The new Relief Society stake and ward record books have been adjusted to the new schedules for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The following reasons for recommending that all Church programs Should have a uniform starting time 2. Should start with the school year will be of interest to mothers: 1. It is recommended that a uniform starting time for all the programs of the Church be adopted for the following reasons: A. C. All organizations dealing with a given age group would be able to correlate their efforts more easily and effectively in such areas as: (1) the preparation of age-group lesson materials, (2) the development of activity programs which would grow naturally and logically out of the correlated instructional program, (3) the development of a meaningful correlated leadership program and teacher training program. If the young people are associated together in the same age groups in all the Church organizations, and if the programs of these groups all begin at the same time, (1) the members of these organizations could be advanced (move together from one class to another) at the same time, (2) the leadership of each age group could function more efficiently and develop a closer relationship with each other. Calendars for all events and activities on all levels of Church government could be developed and carried out more easily. It is recommended that all the programs of the Church begin at the same time as the school year for the following reasons: A. The Southern Hemisphere school year begins about six months later than the Northern Hemisphere school year. This interim period (1) would allow time for needed materials to be received from the United States by regular mail, and (2) would allow time for materials to be translated. It is desirable to keep young people together in social groups. If members of Church organizations were advanced at the same time as school groups, the Church members could move ahead and associate in their Church functions with their social groups (school associates). The printing and mailing of manuals for all Church groups could be completed before the Christmas rush. Also, these manuals and other materials could be packaged and mailed together, eliminating several mailings during the year. 749 Marian Gardner Nielson ¢ Esther lovingly traced the intricate appliquéd flowers on the taut quilt. Her fingers lingered on the rows of tiny, almost invisible, stitches which breathed life into the feather design. She smiled at the rainbow-colored pieces arranged in her own wildflower pattern. The quilt was as beautiful as she had envisioned it years ago when her first grandson, Jamie, had been born—shades of coral, delphinium blue, lavender, and sage green, with accents of delicate yellows and gold. The sprays of shaded wild roses, the white and purple columbines, the tiny blue forget-me-nots were set off by a fragile border of fern fronds and _ pink-lavender cliff flowers looped with trailing greenleafed vines. "It's beautiful,'' she breathed. Since she had put the quilt on the frames two weeks ago, she had hurried out of bed at dawn in 750 order to get at the quilting. It was a slow work, each stitch having to be placed just so, each flower having to be carefully etched with the tiny stitches in order to make it puff out. But she had plenty of time before she needed it. Jamie wouldn't be married for another month. If she worked on it for a few hours each day, she could finish the quilt and even have plenty of time to bind it by hand. This was one quilt she wanted to do alone. True, Mattie had come over and helped her put it on. They had carefully stretched the pale green back and tacked it onto the frames. They had taken special pains to smooth the batt; they had been most particular in getting the top stretched taut and straight before they pinned it to the bottom. "It's too tight, Esther. It will be hard to quilt,' Mattie had objected. "T like it that way, Mattie, you know that.' Esther was adamant. Mattie shrugged, but said admiringly, 'This is the most beautiful one you have done, Esther. The colors, and that wildflower design.... How long did it take you? When did you find time? I've never seen you working on it." Esther laughed. "Well, I'll admit it has taken me a couple of years. But a first grandson getting married is something special—especially one named after his grandfather." Her eyes misted. "James Parsons McBride!" How proud Jim would have been of him—serving as a foreign missionary, three years in the army—then college. And now, marrying Nancy. "Nancy will make Jamie a good wife, Esther." Esther put her hand on the quilt. '"He's always been so thoughtful of me. He told Jim that last day, 'Grandpa, I'll take care of Granny. Don't you worry.' " Esther stopped talking, still tenderly touching the white quilt with its lovely flowers. "This is for Jamie and Nancy on their wedding day. It's a_ surprise, Mattie. None of the family knows about it. That's the way I want it. I want to see Jamie's eyes light up and hear him say again, 'Why Granny, what have you been up to now!' " This was a quilt of her own making. She chose as a design the wildflowers she and Jamie had gathered years ago in Monument Valley, on the Bears' Ears, and at the foot of White Mesa. She - wouldn't even let Mattie help quilt it, let alone the Relief Soci-?