BENNINGTON, IDAHO.

	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was duly cele-
brated by the people of our ward. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a m. An address
of welcome was given by President Mar-
garet Van Orman, after which a program
consisting of speeches, songs and instru-
mental music was rendered. An excellent
sketch on the life of Aunt Zina Young was
given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay. Original
recitations were given by Mr. James
McCouan, one on St. Patrick’s Day caus-
ing much merriment.
	At two o’clock one hundred and seventy
people were seated at the tables which 
were loaded with a delicious dinner, and
served royally. While enjoying the dainty
repast sweet music was furnished by a
number of young ladies.
	At 3:30 p. m. the program was con-
tinued, consisting of singing, instrumental
music and step dancing, in which some of
the older people excel. A letter from our
worthy Bishop, A. R. Wright, who is now
laboring among the Lamanites, was read
by Silas Wright and was much appreciated
by all.
	Badges were given to all over fifty-five
years of age, and the day’s enjoyment con-
cluded with a grand ball in the evening in
which all the older people participated.
	On the 18th dinner was served at the
meeting house to ninty-three school chil-
dren, after which they were allowed to
“trip the light fantastic.” The young
people danced to their heart’s content that
evening.
	Much praise is due the committee for
their zealous work in making such a gala
day. It will long be remembered by all


[Column 1]
participants as a day of perfect enjoyment,
peace and harmony.
				AN OBSERVER.
NINTH WARD.
	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was celebrated in
the Ninth Ward meeting house, March 17,
1902, President Mary Mair presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister E. L. Webb. Singing, “O My
Father.”
	A program consisting of songs, recita-
tions and singing by the younger members
of the ward was rendered.
	Sister Lucy W. Smith Kimball made
interesting remarks on the early history of
the Church and the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. She paid a glowing tribute to Sister
Emma Smith, the first president of the
Relief Society.
	Brother C. W. Penrose said the Prophet
Joseph was inspired of God when he or-
ganized this society. It was a great help
to the Bishops of the different wards. He
advised the sisters to meet together often
and strengthen each other by their testi-
monies and faith in this great work, said
the Lord would protect and guide us if our
hearts were right before Him.
	Bishop J. W. West realized the good
work the sisters were accomplishing in
ministering to the sick and assisting the
poor.
	Brother O. A. Pettit also made timely
remarks and encouraged the sisters to press
forward in the good work.
	An excellent luncheon was partaken of
by all present which numbered over one
hundred. After luncheon there were more
recitations and singing. The meeting was
then brought to a close, Sister Martha
Barrow pronouncing the benediction.
						M. M. G.
ORANGEVILLE.
	A celebration was held March 17, 1902,
by the Relief Society of Orangeville, in
commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society at
Nauvoo, Ill.
	The Social Hall was very tastefully dec-
orated for the occasion, the ladies hall
being too small to accomodate the large
crowd, as the general public was invited.
	Religious exercises were held in the
afternoon, President R. E. Robertson pre-
siding. Singing, “Praise to the man.”
Prayer by Brother P. A. Childs. Singing,
“Oh, give me back my Prophet dear.”
Sketch of the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith by N. T. Guyman. Sr. Historical
sketch of the Relief Society organization,
General, Stake and Ward, by Sister Maria
Guyman. Music on the accordean by
Brother A. Anderson. Reminiscences of
the Prophet Joseph Smith by Sister J. P.
Curtis. Recitation, “Fraught by the
Mother’s of Men,” by Sister Mary Jewkes.
Original poem by Sister J. E. Childs:
Essay on the Relief Society by Sister A.
M. Fitt. Around, “The Praise of our King,”
was then rendered by the choir. Remarks
by President R. E. Robertson. Song,
“Take Me Home,” by Brother and Sister
Hadfield. Recitation, “The Magic Key,”
by Sister Lizzie Reid. Appropriate and
interesting remarks were made by Bishop
Joseph Robertson. Singing, “Our God,

[Column 3]
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by the
chaplain.
	One of the pleasing features of the after-
noon was the singing by the Relief Society
choir, under the leadership of Sister Rachel
Hillian.
	The party in the evening was well at-
tended by old and young. The dancing
was interspersed with the following pro-
gram: Song by Brother A. Jewkes. Song
and step dance by Sister Eliza Cork.
Music by Joseph Jewkes, Robert Johnson
and J. D. Jewkes. Lecture on charity by
Sister M. Tuttle. Song by Loraine and
Joseph Jewkes. Song by Florence Hawkes
and others. Song, “Flitting Away,” by
Adelaide Thompson.
	Picnic was passed about 11:30 p. m. Old
time dances were a part of the evening’s
entertainment, which were indulged in by
all.
	The committee were Hattie S. Reid, R.
E. Robertson, S. E. Curtis, Jane Moffitt,
Amelia Jewkes, Anna M. Fitt and Mary
Cox.
CEDAR CITY.
	The 17th of March was celebrated by the
Relief Society holding a special meeting at
two p. m. in the ward hall. Everybody
was invited and a large attendance was
present.
	The program previously arranged by a
committee of sisters was duly appreciated:
Vocal and instrumental music by several of
our young ladies, biographical sketches,
speeches and readings occupied the time.
	Sister M. A. Lunt, our former Stake
president made a very interesting and
timely speech. We all missed the presence
of our beloved Sister A. E. Webster, who
for so many years was the leading spirit of
our society, but was not able to be with us
at this time on account of her poor health.
	Brother Webster by request spoke for a
short time, referring to the great progress
the society had made in general and the
great good accomplished by the sisters.
	We have but a few in our midst now
who were numbered among the mem-
bers of the first organization of the Relief
Society of this place which occurred in the
year 1856.
	The ten cent fund was promptly attended
to during a few minutes intermission
which was taken up in an interchange of
greeting and general hand shaking.
	Our society is at the present time in a
thriving conditien under the general super-
vision of President Ann E. Thorley and
counselors, Mary Armstrong and Lucy
Jones.
