WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
BENSON STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of
the Benson Stake of Zion was held in the
beautiful Relief Society building of Lewis-
ton, January 11, 1902.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Rebecca Rawlins extended a greeting
of welcome to all. Reports from the various
wards were given, showing them to be in a
good condition.
	Among the speakers of the forenoon
were President Lucy Cardon, of Cache
Stake, Counselor Annie T. Hyde of Salt
Lake City, and Bishop William Waddoups.
	The main topics treated upon by Sister
Hyde was the value of the association and
the means for making the meetings inter-
esting and instructive in temporal as well
as spiritual things.
	Brother Waddoups spoke of the necessity
of training and leading our children in the
path of duty.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock
and during the intermission a delicious
luncheon was served to all present and a
very enjoyable time was spent.
	Meeting convened again at two o’clock.
The principal speakers at this session were
Sisters Done, Lucy Cardon, Annie T.
Hyde, Maud Roskelly, also Presidents
Alma Merrill and Brigham Hendricks.
	Sister Done spoke of the greatness of the
association and of the necessity of women
being on an equality with their husbands in
all that is noble.
	The remarks of Sister Hyde were mainly
in regard to the Word of Wisdom and
tithing, and of the designs of the Lord in
the bringing of His people to these
valleys.
	Sister Cardon spoke of the great good
which could be accomplished among the
poor and the sick.
	The remarks of Sister Roskelly were
mainly instructions to the secretaries.
	Presidents Merrill and Hendricks spoke

[Column 2]
of the importance of fulfilling all the re-
quirements made of us by the Gospel.
	MARIA HUTTLEBALLE, Cor. Sec.
NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion met in
the Tabernacle at ten a. m., February 14,
1902.
	President Lillie C. Page presided and the
meeting opened by singing the hymn,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother Thomas Daniels. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Minutes read and
with one correction made accepted.
	President Lillie C. Page spoke of the
meeting to be held on the 17th of March
and urged all to make it a day of enjoy-
ment and profit.
	A report from the president of each ward
was called for, and each responded with
a very good showing, both spiritually and
financially. Conference then adjourned,
after singing “Now let us rejoice,” till two
p. m. Prayer by Brother David Lant.
	At two p. m. conference reassembled.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop J. S. Taylor. Singing,
“Come let us anew.”
	Sister Price, of Goshen, spoke on the
subject of motherhood. She said in part:
“We should ask the Lord to help rear our
children in the fear of the Lord, and ever
keep a watchful care over them. Set good
examples and see that the children follow
them, be careful about the associates they
keep and they will never go astray.”
	Sister Pierce, of Salem, said she felt
weak and timid, but greatly blessed to be
with the sisters today. We cannot begin
too early to teach our children to be kind
and thoughtful of the elderly people.
Parents should interest their children at
home every evening by good books or by
any instructive means.”
	Miss Stella McClellan then favored the
audience with the song, “Tell Me,” which
she sang beautifully.
	Sister Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
Third Ward, also spoke on the subject of
motherhood. She said: “Every sister is
willing to become a wife, but many refuse
the holy condition of motherhood. If we
live rightly, according to our Father’s
word, we will not hesitate to have families
and by having the spirit of the Gospel we
will instruct them in it. Be your childrens’
best friend, get their confidence and they
will love and honor you all the days of
your life.”
	Counselor E. J. Dixon felt greatly bene-
fited by what had been said and urged the
sisters to donate to the Woman’s Building.
	President J. S. Page said he had enjoyed
the conference, and answered some ques-
tions referring to the duties of the sisters.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.”
Benediction by Brother Smith.
			MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference, held at East Bountiful,
January 30, 1902, President Susan Grant
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Patriarch Judson
Tolman. Singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.” Minutes of previous
morning session were read and approved;
the annual report was also read and
accepted.

[Column 3]
	President Susan Grant was pleased to see
so many here. “We have so many things 
to be thankful for, and I hope we will all
live in a way that the Lord will continue
to bless us. Dear sisters encourage singing
among your children, for the Lord has said
the songs of the heart are prayers unto
Him. The Spirit of the Lord is with us,
today and we will have a good time May
we have the Spirit to be with us at all
times.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth said, “I feel at
home when we have the Gospel. We all
have the same great aim in view and are
united. I think the work of the Relief
Society is the grandest in the world. The
women of the world did not make much
progress in their societies until Joseph
Smith organized this one. It makes us
better women when we take an interest in
this work. We are more humble and more
united with our husbands. Show me a
home where the father and mother are
united, and I will show you a home that is
attractive to the children.” Spoke of the
great mission of George Washington, he
truly earned the title of Father of his
Country. Teach your children to be loyal
and patriotic citizens.
	President Mary A. Page reported the
South Bountiful Society “We have a
good band of sisters. Our teachers make
their visits once a month and are trying to:
do what good they can. I pray the bless-
of the Lord to be with us.”
	Counselor Mary S. Clark: “I am pleased
to meet with you again. It is necessary
for us to meet together once in a while to
be spiritually fed, that we may be able to
overcome the temptations we meet with.
Teach your children the principles of the.
Gospel and of the beautiful character o
the Prophet Joseph Let us have charity
for those who do not belong to our Church,
set them an example at all times and try to
draw them into the fold. We should all
try to govern our tongues and be not the
first to speak of the faults we see in our
bre[-]hren and sisters May the Lord bless
us all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt: “I am happy in-
deed to meet with you all once more.I
feel thankful that we have been permitted
to come forth in this dispensation to help
in this great work. Remember the Lord,
and call on Him often for His Spirit to be
with us in teaching our children. So much
of this depends upon the mothers and they
need all the assistance they can get. The
object of every Latter-day Saint is to serve
the Lord and keep His commandments. I
ask the Lord to bless us with His Spirit at
all times.”
	President Jane Pack reported the society
of the West Bountiful Ward. We have
good sisters and enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord in our meetings. We are all trying
to do what good we can.”
	Centerville was reported by President
Elzina Tingey. “Our sisters are united
and are doing the best they can in taking
care of the poor. May we all have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.”
	President Nancy Willey reported the
East Bountiful society: “We have a large
society and our meetings are usually well
attended. Our teachers are united and
trying to do their duty. May the bless-
ings of the Lord be with us.”
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother D. O. Willey.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-


[Column 1]
ing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Counselor Henry Rampton. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.” Roll
called and minutes of previous morning
session of conference read and approved.
	President Susan Grant then read an
article from the EXPONENT and presented
the names of the general officers. She also
encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT, it is our paper and our duty to
keep it up.
	Counselor Hyrum Grant: “I am very
glad to have the privilege of bearing my
testimony before the sisters There are
many gifts given to the children of God,
one of the greatest is to know this is the
Church and Kingdom of God. In looking
over the reports of what has been done for
the poor, I find that the Relief Society has
been a great help, and I know the people
have been blessed in paying their dona-
tions.
	Farmington society was reported by
President Helen Miller: “Our society is
in a very good condition and all are trying
to do what good they can. I pray the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: “I have been
pleased with all that has been done here to
day, especially the reports of what has
been done for the poor. Money is given
to us as a blessing. If we hoard it up we
lose the blessing, while if we are liberal and
generous with the poor we make many
homes happy and our blessings are multi-
plied.” She then related a very remarka-
able instance of how medical skill failed to
restore a child’s sight, but when the
Priesthood was called in and faith was
exercised the child began to improve.
	Counselor Joseph Clark: “I realize in
looking over this congregation you are
the ones who support the Relief Society. I
know in every ward there are a certain few
who are always at their post and can be
depended upon. It costs quite an effort to
live the life of a Saint, we have to make a
good many little sacrifices, but it is these
sacrifices that make us strong in the faith.
pray the Lord to bless us all.”
	South Hooper society reported by Presi-
dent Alice King: “We are all trying to do
the best we can and take care of the poor.
	President Emma Corbridge represented
the West Layton society: “Our society is
small and very scattered, the sisters are
united and doing the best they can. The
Spirit of the Lord meets with us and we
have good meetings. I ask the Lord to
bless us all”
	President Susan Grant: “I have been
pleased and feel to endorse all that has been
said. We must strive at all times to have
the Spirit of the Lord with us to help raise
our children in a pleasing manner before
