				CLARA BARTON.


[Column 1]
HULL HOUSE, CHICAGO.
	Probably most of the readers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT have heard of Hull
House in Chicago, and if so will be inter-
ested to know more of this economic, phil-
anthropic enterprise for industrial women,
which in so short a time has become cele-
brated the world over.
	Hull House is known as the result of
the magnanimity of one woman, so to
speak. Miss Jane Addams, who was the
founder and has been the active promoter
of the interests for which Hull House has
become famous.
	The object of Hull House is (as stated in
its charter) “to provide a center for a high-
er civic and social life; to institute and
maintain educational and philanthropic
enterprises, and to instigate and improve
the conditions in the industrial districts of
Chicago.”
	Ladies who have been residents of Hull
House sometimes give public lectures on
the institution at great conventions and
assemblies, telling of the good it has ac-
complished; but though one has heard a
half dozen of lectures on the subject one
cannot realize the great work done by
listening to the theory, as one can in actual-
ly going through the house and taking it
as an object lesson, and even then one
searcely comprehends the value and im-
portance of the work and what it must
mean to those who have been participants
in its benefits, until one has fully digested
what one has seen.

[Column 2]
	One might be justified in speaking of it
as a great business center, and yet it is
even more. It has a social, a moral and
intellectual side as well as industrial and
economic; and further it has higher edu-
cational and artistic advantages. In fact
it combines almost everything necessary to
life and the pursuit of happiness.
	Perhaps a list of what is taught there
may give the reader some idea of the mag-
nitude of the work undertaken and which
has proved so beneficial in improving con-
ditions that looking at previously seemed
appalling.
	For “Classes advanced” the spring term
begins April 1, and continues ten weeks,
and the fee for each course is fifty cents.
Secondary classes are free but all students
are required to register. Each day in the
week is devoted to a given subject—the
subjects are: Rhetoric, Reading, Grammar,
Poetry, General History, United States
History, Parliamentary Law, etc.
	Art and Technical Classes, fifty cents for
a term of ten lessons. This includes:
Carpentry, Sloyd, Wood Carving and Pot-
tery, Mechanical Drawing and Design-
ing, Basket Weaving, Metal Work, Clay
Moulding, Architectural Sculpture, Draw-
ing, Painting, Designing, Sketching,
Dressmaking, Millinery, Embroidery, Study
of Textile Industries, Sewing and Cooking,
In the cookery Miss Addams herself in-
structs both women and children on differ-
ent days: for instance women on Tuesday
and children on Wednesday.
	Gymnastic classes for men and boys, also
women and girls. Mr. Pearson of the Y.
M. C. A. Training School for Physical
Education has charge of the men and boy’s
Gymnasium this year, and Saturday
evenings have been given over to game
and basket ball practice. The woman’s
class has also begun its basket ball
practice.
	There are dancing classes for adults and
children, arranged for beginners and those
advanced and a nominal price or fee, with
excellent teachers in all departments.
	Music and singing are made a specialty,
they have public recitals in the Hull House
Auditorium. Audiences are enthusiasiic
on these occasions. Recently the Hull
House music classes gave a program of folk
song and dances in national costume that
was very successful financially and other-
wise. Remember these are the children of
the working people, and in many instances
the very poor.
	Hull House Clubs are a social feature as
well as educational and are all systematical-
ly arranged and under careful management.
There is the Jane Club, which is incorpor-
ated and maintains a club house for young
women upon the cooperative plan, the
weddings of the inmates of Hull House
take place in the Jane Club House.
	There is the Woman’s Club. This club
sometimes gives neighborhood parties
under the Social Extension Com-
mittee. There is the Hull House Shakes-
peare Club, Hull House Men’s Club, Hull
House Dramatic Association. Evening
Clubs are the Drexel, Henry Clay, Howe,
Washington Irving, Medill Alumnie Aria-
dne, Progressive Literary and Social Club,
Sewing Club, Gospel Club, Goodrich
Alumnie and more than a dozen others, so
that one can see much of the instruction is
given in this interesting way.
	Hull House has what is known as a
Labor Museum. For five afternoons and
evenings each week these rooms are used

[Column 3]
for classes, but on Saturday evening the
entire floor is devoted to the Labor
Museum and the public is cordially invited.
It is designed to show the development in
methods of production from the earliest
times, and as nearly as possible to illustrate
the differences of various nations. Actual
work is going on in wood work, metal
work, pottery, cooking, spinning, weaving,
basket work, printing, book binding and
clay modeling. The trades are further
illustrated by collections, charts and pic-
tures, which are open for study and in-
spection. In spinning five national cus-
toms are regularly shown, Syrian, Greek,
Italian, Russian and Irish.
	We must not forget that an excellent
Kindergarten is included in the Hull
House work; babies and little tots are
taken care of through the day for the
mothers, who go out to work, for five
cents per day.
	In short, Hull House includes every
department of household work, trades and
industries in all the several branches,
and its social life is something almost mar-
velous in the outcome. There is a com-
fortable restaurant for working men and
women with good plain wholesome fare at
a reasonable price. A library and reading
room, lecture halls and lectures by cele-
brated men and women, always free on
Sunday nights.
	At some future time we hope to tell you
something more about Hull House and
what it has done for the community round
about, and the splendid example it has
given others to do likewise.


