			SELECTED.


Miss Wright, daughter of the Mayor of
Denver, has been invited to christen the
new Battleship “Denver,” which is to be 
launched in April.


[Column 1]
THE AGE WE LIVE IN.
[Read by the writer at the Thursday evening
session of the Fourth Triennial of the National
Council of Women of the United States, February
20, 1992, in Washington D. C., held at Carroll
Institute.]
	In taking a retrospective view of the
nineteenth century, (of which we older
people have some real knowledge), its stir-
ring events, its victories and triumphs in
many directions and its advancement along
many lines leading to higher thought and
better living, and summing up the tacts and
figures, one who observes carefully cannot
help feeling it contains an unmistakable
prophecy of the future development of the
race of mankind.
	Referring back to the days of Joel, the
prophet, who foresaw these later times in
which we live, we read, "Your old men
shall dream dreams, and your young men
shall see visions.” And they are not only
dreaming and seeing visions, but the real-
ization of all and more than has been fore-
told.
	Indeed mankind is fast approaching a 
time when still greater events will transpire
than have ever been known since the earth
was formed and man given dominion there-
in for in this age the product of the civil-
zation of all the ages, and of the splen- 
did achievements and accumulated knowl-
edge of all the centuries is with the people
of the world.
	All the attainments that have ever been
reached by the greatest scientists, discover-
ers, inventors, explorers, artists and arti-
zans, and their labors in the various fields
of knowledge and of industries, down
through the ages of time, have an existence
still, and have left their impress and effect
upon the world that can never be wholly
effaced or blotted out.
	History may not have preserved it all,
there may be no tangible record of what
has been gained, but sometime we shall
know that nothing has been irretrievably
lost.
	Men talk of the lost arts of the medieval
times, but really that which is considered
so, much of it, still exists in some form or
way, in the realm of space, seen or unseen
and that which is passed away is more
than compensated for in the munificent
present.
	Who would not rather live today than
in the ‘‘good old times” of which some of
us talk so glibly ? This is the day which
the greatest men of all the ages foresaw
and looked forward to with joyful antici-
pation, and which they ‘‘longed for and
wished for and sought but never found.”
	In a thousand ways the people of this
age have the advantage of those who
lived in more primitive times, notwith-
standing all that is told of the greatness of
buried cities, now being unearthed, and the
wonderful art of the preservation of mum-
mies known to the ancients. Not even
the vastness and permanency of the Egyp-
tian Pyramids could convince the nine-
teenth century man that people then were
more enlightened or more advanced in the
arts and sciences than the present gener-

[Column 2]
ation; and what would be said of that day in
comparison with the glowing possibilities
and larger opportunities of this newer cen-
tury.
	Again much that has been done long,
ago was by individual effort, or through,
the agency or genius of one or more great
men, leaders of thought and enterprise; in
our day there is combined force and concert,
of action of men of wisdom, of intelligence
and of courage that never falters, and by,
organized bodies of able and competent
men to bring about all that is accomplished,
of great significance.
	In this age we have organization.cooper-
ation, union of labor and of skill such as
never was known before among any people
or race of men throughout the long lines
of our ancestry from the days of Father
Adam down to the year of our Lord 1902,
and rapid strides are being made onward
towards perfection in many things and
many ways, and this is but the beginning, 
as it were, of the days of marvelous works
and wonders.
	It would be impossible to enumerate all
the new devices and discoveries in science
man has wrought out that tend to better
surroundings and easier conditions and cir-
cumstances for the masses of the people,
and to lighten the labor of woman in.the
household and elsewhere, thus increasing
the possibilities for higher education and
culture and making life more pleasant and
desirable, not only to the rich and well to
do, but to the working people, who are the
bone and sinew of the world of mankind
and whose well being must be considered
in every great question that agitates the
world.
	When one considers the growth of true
knowledge gained through a few recent
years, as compared with the same period of
time farther back, one cannot help estimat-
ing and calculating what the generations
yet to come will be able to bring about
with the superior advantages and manifold
opportunities that these changed conditions
will render possible.
	Woman as well as man is taking part in
the great drama of the ages, and is making
her influence felt along many lines of pro-
gress in various directions, and in many
matters pertaining to the present and the
future, the earth and the heavens.
	One of the tremendous forces more recent-
ly brought into active exercise, which bail
heretofore lain partially dormant, is this
awakening of woman and her cooperation
with man in the world’s great work
	She comes upon the stage of the
great drama of the world’s history at the
most opportune time, when there is need of
her intuition and genuine service, and.slie
has come to stay until all is accomplished
that now lies hidden from view in the
womb of the unborn years
	To be sure we might say woman has
acted wisely her part heretofore, and what-
ever has been undertaken by man in the
past in one way or another has been
supplemented by woman, and she has done
the work well which seemed most essential
to build up or help the family life to rear


[Column 1]
sons and daughters for future generations,
to smooth the rough places and diffuse
sunshine and sweetness, to bestow mercy
and tenderness in the routine assigned to
all mankind through the circumstances
and environments in which their lot seemed
to be cast.
	The old saying “man must work and
woman must wait,” might be arranged to
read, “Woman must work while she waits
for the wheels of progress to roll around.”
But that condition for her is now nearly
over, and the time has come when she can
lift up her voice and say, in the words of
Solomon the wise man, “Give her of the fruit
of her hands, and let her own works praise
her in the gates.”
	Civilization and enlightenment have
reached a phase that could no longer brook
the somewhat dependent stage of woman’s
powers that had for centuries existed, and
woman herself began gradually and percep-
tibly to throw off the lethargy in which she
had become enveloped like a shroud, and to
supplicate, entreat and sometimes to de-
mand for herself and her sex, more privi-
leges and a broader field in which to
exercise her mental and moral forces and
activities, and to teach this higher thought
to others, diffusing the element of greater
hope to her fellow women until the leaven
thus generated, that was no larger than a
grain of mustard seed gave new life and
power to rise to all women who would par-
take of its influence; and many felt the
divine afflatus, and the spirit of this awak-
ening has become, as it were, general until
man himself is more or less conscious of the
strength of this seemingly immaterial yet
intense vitality in woman that is permeat-
ing the world.
	Thousands of women have been praying
for this day and age in which we live, and
are now basking in its sunshine of progress
and development the prophets and seers
of old, the sages and poets all down along
the line have lifted their voices in antici-
pation of such a time, a day of freedom
that has already begun to dawn; its roseate
light of splendor is lighting up the ever-
lasting hills of promise, and we see it draw-
ing nearer. The faith of the many who
thirsted for righteousness has so far pre-
vailed that greater light has come into the
world and broader charity and love is be-
ing disseminated, truth that will dispel the
darkness of error; and bye and bye through
the potent agencies now fermenting in
nearly all lands, the blessed day of peace
will hasten on, the universal brotherhood
of man, the dream of the greatest, the best
and wisest men and women of all the ages;
and it will reach the climax of its fulfill-
ment in the century that has just dawned.
	The inspiring influences that have been
causing this uplifting are all in the program
marked out for the children of our Father in
heaven, let those who dare deny it! But
as sure as the scriptures are true and they
are true, so sure woman must be instru-
mental in bringing about the restoration of
that equality which existed when the world
was created, when the morning stars sang
together and the sons of God shouted for
joy. Woman was there in that harmon-
ious gathering, endowed with all her pris-
tine purity and loveliness, and shared with
man the honors of that momentous occasion.
The scriptures teach that God created man
in His own image, male and female created
He them, and said unto them “Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth and

[Column 2]
subdue it, and have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.”
Perfect equality then, and so it must be
when all things are restored as they were
in the beginning. It is this spirit stirring
within woman that is to bring her back
again to that primeval state that existed in
the Garden of Eden. It is the song of the
poets ringing down the ages, and, as it
were, the echoes of the divine music of a
far-off region of sublime hopes and aspira-
tions that had lingered in the soul without
power of expression, a dim memory of
something far distant, call it by what name
you will, it is an incentive to higher
thought—an ideal, a superb height of ex-
cellence towards which we are climbing,
slowly, may be, but surely. Christ has
given us the pattern, and He has told us to
love one another, given as a divine com:
mandment, and it is this great universal
love that will eventually redeem the world.
	It is not the few whose path in life is to be
made easy, but it is the masses from all
lands and among all peoples who must
come up to this standard of excellence
given by our Savior, the Golden Rule,
“Do unto others as ye would they should
do unto you” and when men and women
keep this law, then will come the time of
“Peace on earth, good will to all mankind,”
and let it be in this century, when the in-
spired poet Tennyson’s words shall come
to pass.

"For I dipt into the future, far as human eye
	could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder
	that would be.
* * *
Till the war-drum throbbed no longer
	And the battle-flags were furl’d,
In the parliament of man the
	Federation of the world." 

		E. B. W.


