LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING,

	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, February 1,
1902, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills
we bless Thee.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
Steele. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The minutes of last meeting read
and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson said she felt blessed in
coming to meeting. She had been to
Ogden to the birthday of Sister Jane S.
Richards, they had a nice time. Urged
the sisters to do their duty as teachers, as it
was a grand calling and a great privilege.
Spoke of the time being too short to do
what she would like to do, felt a desire to
visit the poor and urged the sisters to come
to meeting.
	Sister Squires felt the Lord had blessed
her. Wished to do all the good she could.
	Sister Saunders enjoyed coming to
meeting. Other sisters in the congregation
bore their testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and felt to thank the Lord for the
blessings they had received.
	Sister Agnes Jones, said she had a testi-
mony to bear. She had visited these
meetings ever since the first organization,
was always pleased to see the teachers come
to her house.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy thought every one
ought to bear a testimony. She felt it a
great blessing to come to meeting, and two
sisters said they were pleased to come to
these meetings. They felt well in doing
their duty, and felt glad they were teachers

[Column 2]
in the Relief Society. Thought we could
not do too much for the Lord.
	Sister Anderson felt thankful to the
Lord and hoped always to prove faithful.
	Sister Sarah Stanley spoke of the great
affliction of losing the use of her arm, but
by the use of the oil and the blessing of the
Lord it was restored again. Urged the
young sisters to come to meeting.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Cannon appreciated
coming to meeting, spoke of the teachers
coming out and doing their duty. We all
feel well in doing our duty, she thought
that in other churches many of the mem-
bers attend to their meetings better than
we do. She felt the time was too short to
waste and urged all to strive to do their
duty, for we are all responsible for our own
part.
	Sister Knox bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel. Knew Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God.
	Stake Counselor J. E. Taylor spoke of
the gift of healing, of the faith of a little
boy in healing by administration through
the teachings of his mother. Urged all to
have faith in the Lord, in case of sickness
to call upon Him in faith and He would
heal them. Urged all to cultivate the
spirit of healing, said the duties of the
Elders when called upon to administer was
to rebuke the disease. Advised the sisters
to have sympathy for one another.
	President Angus M. Cannon thought
when praying to the Lord we often asked
for things that we did not need, the Lord
knows best. Spoke of several circumstan-
ces of sickness in his family, of the
blessing of the Lord through faith and
administration, of the differences in having
faith in the Lord and faith in the doctor.
When we ask the Lord to bless the sick we
should say, “Thy will be done.” We
will be pleased when we all get through
and all rejoice together.
	Sister Margaret Hull was set apart as
treasurer of the Salt Lake Relief Society,
President Angus M. Cannon officiating.
Sister Hull then sang, “One Bright Crown
for Me.”
	Sister Stevenson thanked Presidents
Cannon and Taylor for coming to visit us.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Bene-
diction by President Cannon.
