SIXTH WARD CELEBRATION.
	Exercises were held in the Sixth Ward
assembly rooms, Monday, March 17, in
commemoration of the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, March 17, 1842.
	President Isabella West presided assisted
by her counselors, Ellen B. Watson and
Alice Butterworth. On the stand were
Bishop James C. Watson, Counselor Alex-
ander Burt, Patriarch Jesse West, Elders
Arnold Giauque, of the Y. M. M. I. A.,
Albert Re[-]ser, Brothers James Latham,
Thomas Winter, Henry Pugh; Sisters
Louisa Green, Jane Powel, Margaret Lath-
am, Caroline Fullmer and Mary A. Rush-
ton.
	The singing was led by Brother James
Poulton Sen., organists, Louisa Giauque and
Jane Poulton.
	Opened by singing, “We thank Thee,


[Column 1]
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Bishop
James C. Watson. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President West in her opening address
extended a warm welcome to those present.
Spoke of the growth of the good work of
the society. Our Heavenly Father blesses
us in our labors. Spoke of the magnitude
of the work of the society which is ever
alert to care for the sick and needy. Her
earnest desire was for the welfare of the
society. All married women who are
Latter-day Saints should be members of
the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph
Smith was impressed to organize this
society for a benefit and blessing to us. If
we live up to our privileges we shall gain
an exaltation in the kingdom of our
Heavenly Father.
	A brief sketch of the Relief Society from
its first organization up to the present time
was read by Secretary E. Condie. Song,
“The Holy City,” by Mamie Evans. Organ
solo, Louisa Giaque.
	Counselor Ellen R. Watson knew Joseph
Smith was a prophet of the Lord, he was
inspired when he organized the Relief
Society. Was pleased to be connected with
her sisters in this grand and noble work.
Those who have large families have many
home duties to perform, but there are
but few who could not find time to attend
their meetings and attend to spiritual
duties. In the faithful discharge of them
we gain a blessing. Said let us assist the
needy and encourage those who are weak
in the faith. Referred to the ten cent fund
to assist the sisters in their traveling ex-
penses.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth said the
Prophet Joseph turned the key when he
organized the Relief Society for the benefif
of the poor, the sick and afflicted. Spoke
of the noble women with whom she was
and had been acquainted, was pleased to 
have such an honor. Such were President
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, faithful, energetic workers in the
kingdom of our Heavenly Father, giving
their kind counsels and instructions to the
sisters “Theirs is a noble work, they are
laying up treasures in heaven.” Spoke
earnestly to the sisters who were not en-
rolled as members to become so. They
could form no idea of the unity and love
we sisters have for each other. We enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord by doing good in
this noble work, which will never end un-
til our Savior comes to reign on the earth.
	Bishop James C. Watson said we have
not only met as a Relief Society anniver-
sary, but as a reunion of the ward. Ap-
proved of the sketch read by the secretary.
Many reflections were brought to his mind.
Referred to the magnitude of this Latter-
day work. The divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, the inspiration he received
from God the Eternal Father to inspire him
to organize the Relief Society, also in
electing those sisters in their various
offices. Spoke of the unity of the sisters in
this society with the Bishopric, the noble
work they had done and were doing. Re-
ferred to the good instruction given by
Apostle Anthon Lund during conference,
on being kind to the young people, not
using harshness, but use kindness, patience
and forbearance to the wayward ones. 
Counseled the sisters to be charitable to
each other, seek after those who are not so
strong in the faith, encourage them to be

[Column 2]
one with you. Thanked his Heavenly
Father for His many, blessings to him in
restoring him in health and strength thus
far.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	Patriarch Jesse West referred to the
grand and marvelous work performed by
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum, the kind, sympathetic disposition of
the latter. Related an instance of his
pleading with the Prophet in regard to an
erring brother. Felt to bless the Relief
Society in the name of the Lord. Spoke of
the sayings of Paul. Felt to honor and
love President Joseph F. Smith and
Patriarch John Smith, for they were lineal
descendants of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother, Hyrum Smith.
	Elder Giauque realized the importance
of the work devolving upon the Relief
Society. There is much to be considered;
the power they can exercise at home is
great, they should be in unity with their
husbands, should put aside selfishness and
give aid to those who are in need. These
sisters can do more than the brethren, they
know better the wants of the sisters. Their
sympathy and kind acts can relieve those
who are bowed down or sick. Said all
young married women should be members
of the Relief Society, they need counsel
and instruction from those who have had
experience. Spoke of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the
first organization of the Relief Society, it
being the only one organized in that way.
Spoke of the auxiliaries which were organ-
zed, such as the Mutual and Primary,
which are the first. In the Primary the
little tots are taught in a simple way the
principles of truth. These were organized
by the Presidency or with their sanction,
and are just as essential in their proper
order. But the Relief Society is of a differ-
ent character. It gives a wide scope for
thought and action. Spoke of the unity
and love that should exist in the home
circle, children were much better trained
when parents were united and often follow
in the footsteps of their parents.
	Sister Powel had been in the Church
many years, gave her experience and also
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, said she had been connected with
this society twenty years. Many do not
realize the importance of the work to be
done in this society. Spoke of the redemp-
tion for the dead, what a blessed thing that
the Lord has opened a way for those who
did not hear and obey the Gospel here, and
have passed behind the veil.
	Brother Winter felt blest in being located
with the Saints of God in these valleys.
Bore a powerful testimony to the healing
power through the servants of God in his
behalf. Bore testimony that President
Brigham Young was a servant of God.
Even the Gentiles acknowledge him to be
a great man, spoke of his power as a leader
and how through his influence the Lord
made the sterile valleys to blossom as the
rose.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the
Relief Society as a different organization to
any other. It opened up a wide channel
to extend sympathy, charity, counsel and
instruction to the sisters. It was organized
by revelation through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and is throughout the world where
our people are. It has attracted the notice
of many in the world, and many other

[Column 3]
organizations pattern after it. He had
been connected with the ward for forty-two
years, was acquainted with President West,
Counselor Alice Butterworth and Sister
Rushton, all were untiring in their efforts
for good and had performed a noble part.
	Brother Pugh thought the Prophet
Joseph did not foresee the magnitude of this
great work when he organized the Relief
Society, for it has grown to a marvelous
extent. The sisters have done a noble
work. Spoke of the integrity of Counselor
Ellen R. Watson to the Gospel, rejoiced in
hearing her strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. He had been acquainted with
her from her girlhood.
	Sister Rushton bore a strong testimony
to the truth. She was personally acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo,
underwent many trials and tribulations in
connection with her husband and the
Saints, being driven and threatened to be
shot by the mob. Shared both joy and sor-
row with the Saints at that time. When
she reflected on these things her heart was
too full to say more.
	Brother Poulton bore testimony to the
divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Was
proud to be connected with such noble
women as President West, Counselor But-
terworth and Sister Rushton, had known
them since the year 1864. Their deeds of
kindness would never be forgotten, they
were noble women working for the interest
of their sisters, ever cheerful in the dis-
charge of their duties, willing to respond
to the calls made on them night or day to
alleviate suffering. Joseph Smith was a
prophet of the Lord, revered his memory.
Honored the sisters in their various call-
ings.
	President Albert Reiser, of the Y. M. M.
I. A., spoke briefly on the first organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet, also
the name desired by him for that society,
he desiring it to be called a Benevolent
Association, it being overruled, however,
by the sisters. Emma Smith as president
giving her hearty approval, it was known
at that time as the Female Relief Society,
the Prophet kindly giving way to the
sisters in this. Today there are many
societies in the world who are patterning
after us. The organization known as the
National Council of Women, to which our
Relief Society is connected, has many
noble women as members who are alleviat-
ing the sufferings of many, lightening the
labor of many young boys and girls who
have to toil hard in workshops, trying
to ring about a better condition of things
in the world. But the Relief Society was
organized by divine revelation, and those
connected with it are seeking through their
faithfulness to be a power for good among
their sisters. Emma Smith was elected by
revelation some twelve years previous to
the time of the organization, “to expound
the scriptures.” When Emma was elected
president, the Prophet said, “Now is the
revelation fulfilled.”
	Counselor Burt endorsed the sentiments
of the former speakers, spoke on the law of
obedience to the Priesthood of God, the
observance of his laws, also the divinity of
the Prophet Joseph and the noble work the
sisters of the Relief Society had done and
are doing.
	Sister Latham bore a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, Had been con-
nected with the Relief Society many years.
She was pleased to have our Bishop with


us, also the other brethren, had enjoyed
the instruction given to us by them.
	Sister Green felt proud to be connected
to the Relief Society, many of the poor had
been benefited and a good work had been
done. Said it is a work of love, a grand
and glorious work. “I love it and if my
sisters would come out and join us they
would enjoy themselves, we can all find
time for pleasure, we can find time to
attend these meetings and thus gain a
blessing.”
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Brother Thomas Green.
	A sumptuous dinner had been previously
prepared. The committee on arrangements
for dinner were Thomas Green and the
young ladies of the Mutual Improvement
Association. The young ladies deserve
great praise, for their bright smiles and
sweet faces added much to the enjoyment
of the evening.
	Later in the evening the following pro-
gram was rendered: Recitation, V.
Pardue. Comic songs, David Fullmer.
Recitation, Sybil Wetzel. Song, William
Pardue. Male quartette. Song, Mamie
Evans. Comic songs by Lillie Hunter and
George Campbell. Selection, graphophone,
Albert Schoenfeld. Remarks by the Bishop.
	The evening’s amusements ended in a
social dance.
