RIVERDALE.
	The Relief Society of Riverdale, Weber
Co., Utah, held annual day exercises on
March 17, 1902, this being the sixtieth
anniversary of the organization.
	The exercises were held in the ward
meeting house, commencing at eleven
o’clock a. m., President Mary M. Dye pre-
siding. The congregation sang, “Come,
let us anew.” Prayer by Elder Richard
Dye. The M. I. A. sang, “How swift the
months have passed.” President Mary M.
Dye gave to all a welcome and spoke upon
the organization of the Relief Society.
Recitation, Lucinda Fife. A paper upon
the organization of the Relief Society was
read by Sarepta Child. Duett, Margaret
Fife and Amy Bybee.
	Patriarch Sanford of Bingham spoke of
the Relief Society and its good work
among the poor and needy. Felt in his
heart to bless them, for they were trying to
comfort those who need assistance.
	Remarks were made by Sister Edna
Stimpson, who was counselor to our late
president, a mixed quartette was rendered
by Nancy Bybee, Sarah Dye, James Bingh-
am and Samuel G. Dye, and remarks were
made by Counselor Mary Stimpson.
	Bishop A. A. Bingham was thankful
that the Relief Society was in the ward, as
it is a great help. He knew the sisters
to be good, faithful women, and prayed
the Lord to bless them in their labors.
	Remarks were made by Counselor
Martha A. Fife, Brothers William Stimp-

[Column 2]
son and Joseph Fife. “Praise to the man”
was sung by the congregation.
	Counselor Samuel G. Dye, of the Bishop-
ric, realized the importance of the Relief
Society work and knew the sisters
to be women of wisdom, patience and in-
dustry. “By their works ye shall know
them,” and they will be rewarded accord-
ing to their works.
	Benediction was pronounced by Brother
William C. Parker.
	By the assistance of the young ladies
a bountiful repast was spread, and after
partaking of the same, a social time was
enjoyed. Songs, recitations, music and
step dancing by the older brethren were
enjoyed by all.
	In the evening a grand ball was given
which was participated in by old and
young.
