			CULTURE.

	The Utah Silk Commission take pleasure
in again notifying the people of our State
that the season for raising silk worms is
here again, and that we are prepared to
send silk worm eggs to those who desire to
engage in this industry this year. We
have already received many letters from
those who intend taking up the work this
season, and hope those who have raised
silk in the past will continue to do so in the
future, as their past experience will help
them to add much to the quality of the
cocoons they raise this year. We also ad-
vise those engaging in this work to use the
pamphlet of instruction issued by the Com-
mission, as many failures in the past have
been due to the use of other books. We
must remember that this high and dry
climate is very different to most silk pro-
ducing countries; this is one reason why
we have so much better results when we
understand how to take advantage of these
conditions.
	We are pleased to inform the public that
an effort is being made in Congress to
assist those who are interested in this
work, also that a line of scientific experi-
mental work will be taken up this year at
the Experimental Station in Logan, which
not only shows the growing interest in silk
culture, but will also give information we
greatly need.
	Many have no doubt read with interest
the letters coming from the silk raising
districts of China during the past winter,
and if the production of this valuable fiber
can in that country produce a city of
millionaires, its production will no doubt
add much to the wealth of the agriculturists
of this country, as soon as it is thoroughly
understood and trees planted in numbers
sufficient so that the production need not
be limited for want of food for the worms.
	Address all letters to the secretary, Room
502 City and County Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah, and state the number of per-
sons who can give their time when needed
and the number and age of trees from
which leaves can be secured. Do not leave
writing until late in the season. The silk
worm eggs and books of instruction, as
well as any information, will be furnished
to those desiring the same absolutely free
of charge by the commission.
			MARGARET A. CAINE,
	Secretary Utah Silk Commission.


