Notes from the Field
North Central States Mission:
Mrs. Phoebe M. Welling, president of the North Central States Mission Relief Societies, writes as follows:
"Wherever the lady missionaries labor, they are always helpful in the Relief Societies, and in some of the branches, the Elders also take an active interest. Our organizations are a power for good in all the branches where they are operating. I had the opportunity of visiting all the Relief Societies, except the two in Canada, last year. All are thriving and finding plenty to do in these hard times. I think there are none of our people in actual want.
"I met President Welling in Montana, on his return from Utah last October. We held five Relief Society conferences on our way home. We visited both of the Indian Reservations where we have members of the Church. Those visits are always interesting. The sisters at Wolf Point have organized a Relief Society and tried at different times to hold regular meetings, but they do not carry on without interruptions when left without missionaries, as they are at present. The lesson material in the Magazine is difficult for them, especially as some of the sisters cannot read and speak English. I am arranging some simple theology lessons in a manner that the sisters who have been to school can present to the others, trusting that it may work out to the mutual benefit of all. Enclosed is a snapshot of the officers; the names are as interesting as the faces.
Mrs. Phoebe M. Welling, President North Central States Mission Relief Societies; Mrs. Tiny Mountain, Mrs. Bear Skin, Mrs. Pointing Iron, Relief Society Presidency, Wolf Point, Montana.
"The Relief Society in Billings is an inspiration. The group is largely made up of young mothers. I happened to be there on a work and business Tuesday. They were making hand-painted door stops; a swarm of little children were being cared for along with the other work, and the lesson was also presented. I was thrilled.
"We have most loyal support from the St. Paul and Minneapolis branches. Not so long ago the Minneapolis Relief Society sponsored a program to raise funds for a Missionary Benefit. They also contributed four large boxes of clothing for our Wolf Point Indian Branch. Each Relief Society has presented plays that are worthy of comment.
"All through the summer months last year, the Relief Societies of the mission made an effort to meet with the members who live far removed from the chapels and those who are physically unable to leave their homes. Very pleasant trips by street car, motor bus and automobiles were arranged, each group carrying picnic, gifts of flowers, etc. In every instance neighbors and friends congregated and people became acquainted with our Relief Society activities. Many pleasant contacts resulted.
"Our Saints in some of the sections where drought and unemployment have been felt so keenly, are doing well to keep going. Bless their hearts, they show fortitude equal to that of our early Pioneers. They are so scattered that they hold meetings in the summer months when the weather is pleasant enough to travel. I feel humbled in their presence."
Northern States Mission:
Mrs. Artemesia Romney, president of the Northern States Mission Relief Society, writes:
"All the Relief Societies in the mission have held conferences, and seem to be very much interested in the work. The members in the mission work are at a great disadvantage, because they are so scattered, and distances are so great. It requires a great deal of money as well as time to get to their meetings, but the sisters are faithful and desire to learn more of the work. The Relief Society has been given part of the time at each conference to explain the work. The conferences seem to be a great stimulus to all Relief Society members. The Handbook is in all the branches, and is a great help to them.
"The new mission project has been to get the District teachers active in all the branches. It has been very successful so far this fall and winter. In one branch the new project has been the means of almost doubling the attendance. Many of the branches send in similar encouraging reports.
"The accomplishments of the sisters in their Work and Business Meetings are outstanding. A great many articles have been donated, and the sisters make them over into very nice garments. In this way the Relief Societies are helping to clothe the needy. In a number of the branches nearly all the members are relatives, and they do a great deal of charity work for each other. This is not credited in our report. Many people not of our Church will donate 'cast offs' which can be made over.
"Even though many of the members are out of work, subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine have increased materially. A number of the branch organizations have bought the Magazine, and are allowing the sisters to use them as they pay for them monthly—10c each month. This gives the members a chance to use the Magazine while it is being paid for.
"We regret very much that we found it necessary to discontinue four of the organizations. The number was so few and the members were so scattered that it seemed impossible for them to get together. Many of them reported that they could not obtain carfare for transportation. All other organizations are doing fine work. There have been five re-organizations since the work commenced in October—Logan Square, University Branch, Detroit, Bloomington, and Peru.
"Many of the branches have held successful bazaars and parties of various kinds to raise funds. I feel that the work is progressing nicely, and there is more need for service all the time. The two branches in Chicago have donated nineteen large boxes of clothing, and we have packed and sent them out to the needy in the different branches."
Central States Mission:
The following word comes from the Central States Mission:
"A Relief Society convention was held Sunday afternoon, December 13, 1931, in Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, under the direction of the mission Relief Society president, Mrs. Charlotte T. Bennion.
"There were members present from six associations: Leavenworth, Topeka, Kansas City, Kansas; Kansas City, Missouri; St. Joseph and Independence. This was the first convention ever held in the Central States Mission, and it was a decided success. Instructive counsel was given by Sister Bennion. Interesting discourses were given as outlined by the General Board. Reports were given by the presidents of the Societies, and a most interesting feature of the convention was when the retiring officers, who have given long faithful service were called upon and they bore fervent testimonies to the divinity of the Gospel. The convention was inspiring to all present."
Kansas City (Missouri) Branch.
Mrs. Julia Claridge Ellsworth, Relief Society branch president, writes:
"The annual Relief Society conference of the Kansas City branch was held on March 13, 1932. This was attended by people from all over the Central States Mission, there being nearly 300 in attendance. Splendid talks were given by President Samuel O. Bennion, Mission President of Relief Societies Charlotte T. Bennion, class leaders, and others. Special music was furnished by our choir, trio and other numbers. We are all delighted with the proceeds gained from our cafeteria luncheon, as people are so short of means at the present time.
"We have such a wonderful group of sisters in our Society. It has been one of the greatest joys of my life to work with them.
"On the seventeenth of March we held a very unique party. Our program, which preceded the old fashioned ball, was presented in the form of a radio program. We had the stage fixed just like a broadcasting station, it being Station K. C. R. S. (Kansas City Relief Society), James Ellsworth, Jr., proving himself to be a very clever, humorous, as well as instructive announcer, carrying us back to 1842, with all its romance, joys and tears. At the close of the program we were transferred by remote control to the ballroom, where an old time orchestra played the old time melodies for our dancing, and a most enjoyable time was had by all."
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI RELIEF SOCIETY
Mrs. Charlotte T. Bennion, Relief Society Mission President, writes:
"Although most of the sisters are undergoing a very trying time owing to the depression, yet, they are faithful, energetic, and trying to live up to the rules of the Relief Society work, so I am glad to report that they are doing the very best they can under the circumstances."
Texas Mission:
Word comes from Mrs. Irene Rowan, Relief Society President, and an example of activity and foresight is in evidence in the report of this, one of the newest missions.
"The Relief Society built a canning plant at Kelsey, borrowing the funds from the mission with the hope of paying it back from the earnings of the cannery, which has been a wonderful blessing to the people in that vicinity. They have actually canned more vegetables than they have ever had before in all their lives. They now have $77.50 worth of canned vegetables which they expect to sell.
"The nearest Relief Society to Houston is one hundred miles. Most of them range from two hundred and fifty to four hundred miles from here. However, I visited three organizations during the year. I am going to appoint lady missionaries in each district, as assistants, serving similar to stake board members, with the hope of accomplishing more during 1932. The lady missionaries all over the mission have been very active. Wherever they have labored they have rendered considerable service to our organization."
California Mission—Modesto Branch.
A typical Relief Society gathering is this picture of the Modesto Branch Relief Society, Fresno District, California Mission. It was taken on the Annual Day, March 17th, at the home of the branch president, Mrs. A. E. H. Cardwell, where a social was held.
MODESTO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, FRESNO DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA MISSION
Bakersfield Branch.
The Relief Society presented a sacred pageant, "The Conversion of King Lamoni," September 22, 1931, in observance of the Angel Moroni's appearance to the Prophet Joseph Smith, which was attended by a large and appreciative audience.
On October 27, 1931, this Society held a bazaar and dinner which was served cafeteria style, and proved to be a social and a financial success.
St. David (Arizona) Branch.
The St. David Relief Society sent a farm women's exhibit in canning to the State Fair, which won first place in competition with fifteen or twenty other exhibits. The exhibit consisted of five varieties and five kinds of each variety. The enterprise of this branch organization is shown in a most practical and beneficial manner.
Basel Branch, Swiss-German Mission.
A conference of the Relief Society organization of the Basel Branch, Swiss-German Mission, was held Sunday, August 16, 1931, in the local meeting place. About 140 were present in the evening meeting. Three meetings were held during the course of the day. The first was in the nature of a preliminary exercise in Sunday School, dedicated to the Relief Societies. In the afternoon, a testimony meeting was held at which almost one hundred per cent of the members present gave testimony of the value of the work and the fine spirit prevailing in all activities. The evening meeting consisted of a comprehensive program of musical numbers, instructive talks, and an historical characterization of the seven presidents of the Relief Society.
"The photograph is of the participants in this presentation. The material for their individual speeches was drawn from the lessons dealing with these women, as given in the official manual. The costuming of the characters was modeled as nearly as possible after the photographs available of the past and present presidents of the Church organization. Those taking part were: Emma Hale Smith, Louise V. Seigmann; Eliza R. Snow, Anna S. Lingemann; Zina D. H. Young, Marie W. Spoerri; Bathsheba Wilson Smith, Louise Zimmer; Emmeline B. Wells, Olga Laubscher; Clarissa S. Williams, Eva Lieber; Louise Yates Robison, Marie Wagner. Representing the Relief Society presidency on the photograph is Sister Friederika Rupp."
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS
Swedish Mission:
Sister Signe L. Hulterstrom, former president, writes:
"1. A brief history of the Relief Society work in Sweden: The Relief Society work in Sweden dates back to the year 1854, at which time the first branch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized by missionaries in Skane. Sweden was at that time part of the mission known as the Scandinavian Mission. Since that early year the sisters have performed their part of the work in proclaiming the Gospel in Sweden. There is not much written in the Scandinavian mission history concerning the sisters and their activities, but it can be stated that they have worked hand in hand with the brethren, doing all they could in assisting to establish and build up branches of the Church in different parts of Sweden, particularly laboring for the welfare of the women, both young and old, who became members of the Church.
"In 1905 Sweden was separated from the Scandinavian mission and became at that time a mission of itself. Since that date, the sisters have been even more actively engaged in Relief Society work. For many years the Relief Societies in Sweden held only one meeting per month, but since Sister Leah D. Widtsoe became president over the Relief Societies in the European Mission, meetings have been held every week, conjointly with the brethren, when they were holding their Priesthood meeting. The history recorded in the Relief Society annual report for 1930, gives a good description of what our faithful sisters in Sweden are doing. Copies of this history and report were sent at that time to the officers at both Liverpool and Salt Lake City.
"2. Activity in the mission at present: We have at the present time 15 organized Relief Societies in Sweden, and a total enrollment of 346 members. Each Society organized is independent and fully operative, and the meetings are held once a week, conjointly with the Priesthood meetings. The following order prevails: the first Tuesday in the month the time is used for theological studies; the second Tuesday is business meeting, at which reports are given by the district teachers; the third Tuesday, studies in the Word of Wisdom, Health and Home Life; the fourth Tuesday is set apart for literary lessons and sewing; the fifth Tuesday (when there is one) is usually used for a social. During June and August only two meetings are held per month. The district teachers make regular visits to homes of members. The topics are being used as suggested, and the teachers' visits vary from 15 to 30 minutes. Two funds are being maintained, a General Fund and a Charity Fund. Relief Society conferences are being held twice a year. Both minutes and a history are being written about all activities in the Swedish Mission. Plenty of Church literature is kept on hand, and also books on physical culture and etiquette."
Sister Zina Forsberg is now president of the Relief Society work in Sweden. She succeeded Sister Signe L. Hulterstrom in December, 1931.