In all things I submit to the will of the Lord and pray that I may so live that when my call comes to go to the other side, I will be prepared."
Margaret Emma Compton Smith By Mary E. Able
Margaret Emma Crompton Smith, daughter of John and Hannah Hardy Crompton, was born July 21, 1853, in Nebraska, near the Platte river. Her parents, who had embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were at this time on their way to Zion. Her father and his parents were in all the mobbings and drivings of the Saints in Missouri and were in Nauvoo when the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were cruelly martyred in Carthage jail. They experienced hunger and also the blessings of the Lord when He sent the quail to feed them.
Tired of being harassed and driven, her father, John Crompton, with his father and mother, Thomas and Elizabeth Greenhalgh Crompton, went up to Saint Louis to obtain outfits to go to the land that had been chosen for the Saints. Due to exposure and hardships, both of John's parents died at Council Bluffs in 1850. The same year John met and married Hannah Hardy Eckersley, daughter of James and Malley Stott Hardy, a widow with four children, the youngest being about four years old. Their first child and daughter was born and buried in Council Bluffs.
On the night of Margaret's birth a terrible storm arose. The lightning flashed, the thunder rolled, the wind was so terrific that the wagons had to be chained to the ground. Every sister in the company was anxious to lend all the assistance she could to comfort the mother. Yet the care she and the baby should have had was out of the question on this terrible night. As a result she was very ill, so ill that she begged her husband to leave her by the wayside. She had no nurse for her new born babe and so its food was obtained by diluting the milk from one of the two cows comprising their team. This seemed to poison the baby. For two months she was carried on a pillow and her life was despaired of. As they neared the valley the mother's health improved and the baby too began to thrive. They arrived in Salt Lake City in September, 1853, and settled in Cottonwood. In 1856 they moved to American Fork.
Here they experienced many hardships incident to pioneer life, being many times without bread to eat. As a girl Emma was drilled in economy, thrift, faith and love. She attended school under the early teachers in American Fork. At the age of thirteen she spun yarn for her own dress and knit her own stockings. She remembers plainly the candles used for lighting their homes, their beet and carrot molasses, and their food that was baked in a fireplace. She also recalls her unusual dress of Swiss muslin that she had earned, paying $7.00 for her 7 yards of cloth. This dress she wore at a 24th of July celebration. She was often asked to sing on different programs given in those days, at the early age of 15, being a member of the choir under the leadership of Brother Ebenezar Hunter. Sister Mary Hindley once remarked, "If Emma would have her voice trained she would make a Jennie Lind."
During the summer-time she went barefooted and gleaned wheat in the fields and husked corn to assist in home needs. March 2, 1872, she was united in marriage to William J. Rushton. Thirteen years later they moved to Idaho with their four boys, being pioneers in that country on 160 acre tract of land covered with sagebrush. To this union eight children were born—six boys and two girls. At the present time she has six children, 39 grandchildren and 8 great grandchildren living.
In Iona, Idaho, although having a large family she was a member of the choir, teacher in the Sunday School, teacher in Relief Society and was the first President of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Iona Ward. She was later chosen first counselor to Sister Emma J. Bennett in the Bingham Stake Relief Society being set apart to that office by Apostle John Henry Smith. Each year these good sisters traveled 700 miles with horse and buggy to visit the wards of their stake.
Seventeen years later the family moved to Oregon, where Sister Emma was chosen first counselor to Sister Mary Schofield in the Union Stake Relief Society. In 1903 they moved back to Iona, Idaho, where her husband later died. In her three and one-half years of widowhood she took in boarders and went out nursing. She was ever ready to lend a helping hand to the sick and sorrowing. Her children honor and revere her for her life of sacrifice and mother love; her neighbors extol her kindly deeds of service. Her faith and devotion to God have been an inspiration to all who have come under her influence.
On May 29, 1907, she was united in marriage to Patriarch Warren B. Smith in the Salt Lake Temple, and mothered his five children, ranging in ages from six to fourteen, at their home in American Fork. Here she was called to labor in the Relief Society Stake Board as a member in the Sunshine Department under the Presidency of Sister Annie C. Hindley.
One of Emma Smith's greatest activities is temple work. After seven years of faithful labor for her kindred dead she is now completing a list of 1700 names. For more than 50 years she has been a faithful tithepayer, and has subscribed for the Relief Society Magazine ever since it was published.
On a recent visit to Idaho she took occasion to visit some of the aged people there. It made her heart rejoice to hear the expressions of appreciation of her visits to the sick and labors of love among them which was worth more than money to her.
Aunt Em as she is affectionately called, has grown old gracefully. Her cozy home among the flowers and vines is truly artistic, and typical of the happy couple dwelling within.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Summer-time, the great outdoors is calling. How sweet it is to breathe the scent of new mown hay or forest pine or salty sea. No elixir so fills the soul with hope as nature in its ripe fruition.
Amelia Earhart Putnam is the first woman to be awarded the distinguished flying cross by the United States. This signal honor is in recognition of her courage and skill shown during her trans-Atlantic solo flight. Mrs. Putnam has been the recipient of many honors from British royalty and American and English officialdom since her spectacular landing at Londonderry, Ireland. She has also been given the Cross of the Legion of Honor by the French Republic for her unusual accomplishment.
Margaret Deland, after a period of several years, has written a new novel—"Captain Archer's Daughter." Admirers of "Old Chester Tales," "The Awakening of Helena Ritchie" and her other fine novels, will gladly welcome this new book.
Pearl S. Buck's new book, "The Young Revolutionist," deals not with old China like her prize novel, "The Good Earth," but young China groping between old idols and traditions and the new era of nationalistic spirit.
Vickie Baum, Vienna novelist and playwright of "Grand Hotel," desires to become a United States citizen, as she wishes "to live in a country where it is not taken for granted that a woman should clean a man's boots."
Sheila Kaye Smith has written a pretty Sussex story—"Summer Holiday," said to be a thinly veiled autobiography.
Mrs. Ella V. Christian of Utah and Idaho, has certainly proven "It is never too late to learn." At the age of 68 she graduates this summer from the Albion State Normal with a junior high school diploma and is now fully certified to begin her 23rd year as a teacher. Though now a great grandmother she has never ceased to strive for higher educational attainments, overcoming all difficulties to reach her goal.
Professor Martha Van Rensaller, a member of the Cornell University faculty and selected by the League of Women Voters as one of America's twelve greatest women, died recently. She was a leading figure in the field of home economics.
Lady Gregory, who died last May, was one of the best known women writers in Ireland. She was a noted dramatist and director of the Abbey theatre in Dublin.
Carrie Colburn, though a foremost actress and author of numerous plays as well as a pioneer in cinema work, died in poverty and was buried by the Actors' Fund of America, of which she had been a staunch supporter.
Mme. Doumer's tragic figure excites the admiration as well as the sympathy of the world. Sympathy, that after losing five fine sons in the World War, she should lose her distinguished husband, M. Doumer, president of France, by the hand of an assassin; admiration for her fortitude and courage under these manifold sorrows.
The Presbyterian Church in general conference admitted women to membership in the governing body of the church. The measure places one woman in the general council with the right to vote, while the Methodist church conference denied this privilege, though women are admitted to local orders under which they administer baptism, marriage and the sacrament.
Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau, has prepared a ten-year child welfare plan dealing with the infant and child health, child labor delinquency and dependency and the part that should be played in the next ten years by the parent, the community and the nation. The plan if adopted, will be a great step towards decreasing crime and increasing efficiency among the nation's youth.