June Conference ACH year the (Church looks forward to the June conference because of its spiritual uplift, the splendid training it offers, the insight it gives as to what is expected of officers and 'teachers, and! The knowledge of the coming season's work that it imparts. We congratutate the Primary Association and the Mutual Improvement organizations on their unusually successful conference this year. The attendance was remarkable. When one thinks of the financial stringency, it is wonderful that such large groups attended every department section. This shows how eager the officers are to be helped in their work and also their faith that the conference will give the needed assistance. The theme for the Mutual conference was "The Opportunity of 444 the Hour?To Enrich Leisure, To Spiritualize Recreation." Their slogan always stands for that which is most needed at the time it is given, and mow, when people are looking forward to enjoying more leisure, it is very timely to consider how to enrich it and how to spiritualize the recreation of its membership. The Primary theme, taken from the Children's Charter, was, "For every child spiritual and moral training to help him stand firm under the pressure of life." One can think of no more timely or forceful theme to be considered by those who are so deeply interested in the welfare of children, Departments were conducted which helped every officer or teacher in his or her respective work, and the Gleaners, Juniors, Bee Keepers and Summer Camp Leaders Institute that followed the conference were most helpful, and so we might say that this conference was outstanding for the definite help it gave those in attendance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The musical festival, under the direction of the Mutuals, was most inspiring. Three thousand singers gathered from all over the Church and rendered beautiful selections. The sweetness of their voices, the purity of their lives, and their eagerness to represent well the cause they had espoused, was evident to all who heard them. The Sunday morning session of the Primary Association where 1000 children sang was a delight to all who were present. The outing of the Mutuals to Saltair was more enjoyable than usual; and the social given by the Primary at Kingsbury Hall was considered one of the most delightful affairs ever given by that organization. On returning from Columbia University several years ago, Dr. Pack said, "The thing we lack most is appreciation of our own strength." We believe those attending this conference have realized as never before the power of their organization and what it is doing for its members. Be Prepared HEN the campaign for 'Magazine subscriptions was being conducted last fall, and when the annual dues were being collected, one of our alert officers said, "We do not begin at the right time to make these drives successful. We should begin months before. If one cent a week were put aside for a year we would have more than enough for our dues. Three cents a week would more than cover our Magazine subscription and our dues." 'Many who cannot pay $1.50 at once, could by gradual saving, do it with ease. We wonder how many have profited by the excellent suggestion of Sister McKenzie in "The Old Teapot," published in the October, 1931 number of the Magazine, page 554. We suggest that all reread this story and follow its suggestions. SAVE TIME! SAVE MONEY! ?BY WEARING MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Join the ranks of enthusiastic workmen who have found Stop-Loss Pockets to fill a long-felt need. No more loss of tools, valuables, money, from your pockets while working, no matter what your position. No more precious time spent in hunting for lost articles. They Cost No More! Because of our great buying power and large scale production, we are able to include this wonderful improvement without cost to you.. Ask Your Dealer For MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Made in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory For Social Correspondence You always plan your social affairs with the utmost care, for they must be impressive in every detail. Every detail takes in the social correspondence also. Your invitations, announcements, cards, etc., must be in keeping with the social event. We are equipped to give your social engraving or printing the atmosphere and personality of the affair in hand, whether it is a wedding or a tea party, at prices that coincide with today's values. He Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS ANDREA BENSON 554 DON?T Burden your life with  DONT Burden your life with worries that life insurance will carry for you. An untroubled mind and a clear head are vital to the success of any man.
DON'T Say that "Life Insurance is an Expense". It is not an expense. It is an asset, credit assurance, money in the bank for you while you live, for your family after you're gone.
DON'T Say "I can't afford it". That would be childish. You afford a wife and children ? you have simply got to afford some assurance for their future.
DON'T You forget that Life Insurance is the safest investment known.
DON'T Be satisfied with any kind of Life Insurance when there are so many special features offered in policies issued by the BIG HOME COMPANY
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office?Salt Lake City HEBER J. GRANT, President; E. T. RALPHS, General Manager
If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine