Story of a Bridge By Emma Mosheer
"I am thinking of my homeland And the light upon the hills And the magic of the mountains And the music of the rills.
"New wonders now surround me In this land of beauty rare, Yet my heart is in the homeland With my loved ones waiting there.
"When twilight peace is falling Ah, 'tis there I'd like to be For the voice of home is calling, It calls, calls, calls to me."
This poem always appealed to me, as it was descriptive of my feelings. The call grew more and more urgent, till finally last year I decided to pay another visit, together with three American friends, to my homeland, Switzerland.
How happy I was to take my companions to the scenes of my childhood and show them the wonders of my native country, with its green hills and mountains with everlasting snow, blue lakes, cooling rivers, not to forget the beautiful green forests and lovely meadows dotted with fruit trees.
One day we crossed the River Thur on an old historic bridge and while there I told them its story. Long ago there lived in a fine castle overlooking the place where we stood, a widow, Frau von Hohenzorn, with her two sons. Having been bereaved of her husband for a number of years, she devoted her time and efforts to the rearing of her young sons, and under her care she saw them develop into fine manhood. One day the boys crossed the river in a small boat to go hunting in a forest near by. During their absence the mother looking from a window saw that the river was swelling, due to storm in the mountains, and, while watching, the usually calm waters grew into a raging torrent. Shortly she beheld her two sons approaching. Like many boys of that age, knowing no fear, they didn't hesitate a minute, but climbed into the small craft. Scarcely was it loosened when it overturned with its precious load of human life.
Can you imagine the anguish of the poor mother, seeing her boys, her all, perish before her eyes? Full of heavy foreboding she and many kind neighbors rushed to the scene of the disaster. In vain did they search the wild stream for several days. Finally, on the third day, the river gave up the bodies, and mourning neighbors took them to the now desolated castle. The poor mother's hopes and dreams were all blasted. Despair was almost overcoming her when she had an inspiration—she would spend part of her fortune to build a bridge at the scene of the disaster, so other mothers wouldn't have to suffer as she did. She offered the plan and the means for the project to the mayor of the city.
Soon the work was completed over the grave of her children. A unique, curved bridge spanned the wild Thur, and with a lighter heart and great satisfaction the widow watched big and small crossing it in safety; no matter how calm the stream or how wild the torrent no anxiety need be felt any more for the travelers. She is gone Home a long time ago to where her boys are, but the bridge still stands as a monument to the love and foresight of one sorrowing mother for others.