VOL. XIX JULY, 1932 No. 7
EDITORIAL
The Nation's Birthday
On the nation's birthday this year, we are thinking, perhaps, more deeply about what America stands for and about what the future of democracy is than ever before. America has long been regarded as a land of promise. The eyes of the world have turned to her as offering opportunities impossible in the Old World order. In her domain barriers that have divided classes in the Old World are non-existent. She has been a land where dreams have come true, where there have been opportunities for each to develop to the measure of his ability or capacity. Thousands of emigrants have come there with practically nothing and in a few years have so prospered that they have gotten comfortable homes and enjoyed luxuries undreamed of when they landed.
Success has come so easily that it has turned our heads. We have boasted of our wealth, of our prestige, of our power. We have felt that there was no limit to our wealth, that our prestige could not be successfully questioned, that our power was unshakable. Now, when everything is being shaken, when men's hearts are failing them for fear of what may come, when institution after institution that was thought to be impregnable, has gone to the wall, when people who have been living beyond their means are called to account, when homes are sold because payments on them cannot be kept up, when those who have thought they had a competence for life are losing most or all of their resources, there is coming a realization that we have lived beyond our means and have put too high a value on temporal things.
We are coming to realize now that we have been intoxicated with our mechanistic success and have sublimated in some cases almost to the vanishing point things of the spirit. Thinkers are coming to a realization that we should put the proper emphasis upon the true values of life. Important as mechanical and physical things are, and although they do add to the comfort and happiness of life, yet there are spiritual values which we have neglected and which should now be brought to the fore. So we should all consider carefully today how our lives may be made better and richer.
If, as James Truslow Adams in his book, "The Epic of America," says, "America's distinctive and unique gift to mankind is the American dream, that dream of a land in which life shall be better and richer and fuller for every man, with opportunity for each according to his ability or achievement," and if, as he says, this dream is not one of "motor cars and high wages merely, but a dream of a social order in which each man and each woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable," then we must study and realize what this achievement implies.
In pioneering, the dominant questions were those of necessity, burning stumps, clearing the land, planting seed, caring for it, harvesting, building homes. Our pioneering days are largely over but we have problems just as taxing and that require all our brain and brawn. Our problem now is not only to see that all have sufficient for their physical needs, but that all have opportunity for cultural development and intellectual advancement. "We cannot become a great democracy by giving ourselves up as individuals to selfishness, physical comfort, and cheap amusements. The very foundation of the American dream of a better and richer life for all is that all, in varying degrees, shall be capable of wanting to share in it. It can never be wrought into a reality by cheap people or by 'keeping up with the Joneses'." So many of us, in our struggle to make a living, have forgotten how to live. Our thoughts and our energies have been focused on material things and we have felt that our happiness depended upon them. May we not hope that out of the holocaust of the present depression we may emerge refined by the furnace fires, having higher ideals, more worthwhile dreams, a finer standard of values, and with our thoughts centered on spiritual things?