Eve, Mother of the Race By the late Willard Done
In the Biblical account of creation, the setting for the origin of the human family and the events immediately following was the Garden of Eden, with its beauty and charm and peace and holiness. It was as if God had placed environments for the Man destined to be the progenitor of the race, akin to those enjoyed by the angels in heaven, so that the relationship of mankind to God would be the first and strongest impression made on the mind of primal man. To be created expressly in the image of God, to be placed in immediate communication with Him, and to enjoy surroundings of heavenly character and be possessed of the innocence and purity of celestial beings, was the rich heritage that God bestowed at once on the first man, Adam. With this heritage was man formed out of the dust of the earth; and into his nostrils God breathed the breath of life, and he became a living soul with dominion over the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, and every creeping thing. This was the crowning act of creation, for which all previous labor had been preparatory. For there would have been no object in the creation of the earth and all the beautiful things it contains, and its marvelous variety of plant and animal life, unless it had been followed by the placing of the children of God on the earth, to live their lives, endure their trials, achieve their triumphs, and gain the salvation of the Lord. The crowning act of the sixth day fully justified the previous works of creation. Furthermore, like all the other works of God it was declared to be good—fit and pleasing in Jehovah's eyes—not yet contaminated with the evil later to be visited upon the earth.
To Eve, "the mother of all living," was entrusted the great mission of founding the human family and peopling the earth with the sons and daughters of God. She set for all her daughters the true standard of wifely and motherly love and devotion. The profound truth, "It is not good for man to be alone," supplemented by Paul's declaration, "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord," is full warrant and reason for woman and her wonderful mission as companion, wife, mother. Therefore, the Lord said, "I will make an help meet for him."
The account of the creation of Eve and her loving greeting by Adam is suggestive of the holiness and perpetuity of the marital union. Adam was living in primal security and innocence in the Garden of Eden when the promised companion was given him. One writer has well said that Eve was not taken from Adam's head, in token of authority over him, nor from his foot, in symbol of subserviency to him, but from his side, in witness of mutual equality and love. When she was brought to him and he "hung over her enamored," he said, "This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. * * * Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife; and they shall be one flesh."
To treat fully the life and character of Eve, the first to undertake the great adventure of wifehood and motherhood, or to analyze the motives that led her steps into the untried and unproved domain of woman's sphere and mission, is perhaps beyond the scope of this review or of any man's judgment. It is enough to know that what she did has been made to fit into God's great plan for the perpetuation and ultimate redemption of the race. If she was led by woman's impulsive and adventurous spirit to be the first to contravene one of the express commands given of God, it was but the manifestation of the characteristic that has caused woman in all ages of the world to do and dare and hazard and suffer more than man, for the creation and protection of human life. If punishment for the act was deserved, it was fully accomplished in the sorrow and suffering and sin and death it entailed. Yet it was promised her forthwith that full atonement for the transgression would be made through her own seed, who in God's due time would "bruise the serpent's head." And at the same time a means was provided and definitely promised, whereby Adam and Eve and their children could pay the individual penalty of the breach of law, the man through his work in overcoming adverse conditions, with resultant strength and triumph, and the woman through the sorrows and sufferings and incomparable glory and joy of child-birth. For it is out of toil and endurance and suffering that reward and glory must always come.
There has been a deal of comment, both serious and flippant, on the fall of man and the mental attitude of Adam and Eve when confronted with their sin. The reason for any doubtful or adverse comment does not appear. Both were perfectly frank and direct in their explanation of the incident. Nor does the derision sometimes affected by scoffers at Adam's explanation of his action, seem at all justified. He told the simple truth. "The woman thou gavest to me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat," was his direct statement. There was no excusing himself or throwing blame on Eve. As Paul clearly says, "Adam was not deceived." He evidently knew the nature of his act and its consequences. But he was willing to be "in the transgression," although not deceived, in order that he might remain with Eve and they together fulfill the great commandment, "Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth." If Eve by her transgression had forfeited Eden, Adam was willing to make the same sacrifice in token that their union was inviolate. God had joined them together for a holy purpose, and nothing must be permitted to put them asunder.
Eve was equally frank. The serpent had beguiled her into taking the forbidden fruit. She offered no further excuse—attempted no extenuation. She had yielded to temptation, and she made no attempt to evade the fact or its consequences. She accepted the pronouncement of her punishment, and with her husband went out of Eden to take up the tasks and overcome the difficulties of the outer world.
Both knew something of the nature of these tasks. The earth had been cursed for their sakes. Thorns and thistles should it bring forth, and in the sweat of the face they were to eat bread till their bodies should be called back to the dust from whence they had been taken. Pain and sorrow and sin and strife were to take the place of peace and innocence. From these tasks they did not shrink. They had a mission, to subdue the earth and to gain experience and the strength it yields; and to that mission they bent their energies.
The first family was founded and the first real home established when Eve exclaimed in triumph at the birth of Cain, "I have gotten a man from the Lord!" For the first time in the world the miracle of human birth had been experienced; and Eve was the first to know all the pain and sorrow and joy and triumph it entailed. A soul as immortal as their own they had brought into the world, as an earnest of the countless generations that were to follow, for the glory of God and the salvation of His children. The first mother had looked with joy on her first born. The crowning triumph of her life had come, worth the sacrifice even of such a place as Eden.
As Eve was the first to know the experience of human birth, so she was the first mother to endure the sorrow of death, and that in its most terrible form, the murder of one of her sons by the other. It seems to have been her lot to sound all the depths and reach all the heights of woman's experience, as if she had been destined to be an exemplar to her descendants by passing through all the joys, sorrows, glories, and humiliations that woman can know. Into her life were crowded the events which fulfilled the pronouncement following the fall. Everything there stated became a part of her experience, as it was to be a part of the lives of her daughters. Nothing could have been more grief-impelling than to know of the fratricidal deed of her first born. To lose her first two sons, one by violent death and the other by the punishment of exile, was to sound the lowest depths of grief and humiliation. It is difficult to conceive of a greater sorrow.
In her endurance of this bitterness, Eve proved herself again the heroine we have always thought her to be. And as so often happens in our griefs, the great loss was made up to her. Another son, Seth, was given her to fill, in part, the places left vacant by the murder of Abel and the exile of Cain.
And so Eve fought her fight and filled her place as the first wife and mother. Where and at what age she died the record does not state. But this very silence seems to throw around her later life the sanctity of mystery. To have been the first woman, realizing in her long and eventful life all the experiences of womanhood and earning all its rewards, was to accomplish in its fullness the mission of her sex. No greater appreciation of Eve or higher praise for her work can be given. In reverence we hold her memory as fit companion for her husband, a help meet for him, and the eternal mother of the race. And if things earthly are typical of things heavenly, and if, as John says, "When He (the Lord) shall appear we shall be like Him," it is not too much to think that in the regeneration when all things and all persons are restored to their proper status, Eve shall stand with her husband, Adam, throughout eternity, as queen and priestess over the countless millions of her race. Herein will be glory and joy and dominion worthy of all ambition, and yet achieved through her willingness to perform in sorrow and suffering the mission assigned to her as "the mother of all living."