A Shrine is Made By Fay Ollerton
A fit place for the father of our country is Mt. Vernon. In 1932, its porches and pillars stand in white contrast to the lush green meadows; its hallways are polished, its mirrors shining; and its flower gardens are perhaps more lovely than in the days when Martha Washington's boxwood hedge was imported from England. If the great General could return, he would feel that he had indeed come home.
But Mt. Vernon has not always been ready to receive its master. In the years following Washington's death, the plantation began to deteriorate. The paint peeled off, the porch floors sagged, and the fields lay half neglected. People still made pilgrimages, but they began to wonder if the old house had ever been as glorious as legend would have it.
In the middle part of the nineteenth century, it was the custom for the steam packets of the Potomac to toll their bells and slow down their engines as they passed Mt. Vernon. And it was the custom, too, as the bells tolled, for Negro vendors to come on deck crying out that walking sticks could be bought that were made from the trees planted by Washington. Photographers would call out in harsh voices that for a few cents a person could go ashore to have his picture taken by Washington's tomb. America was still adolescent, and she had not altogether learned the beauty of respect for sacred places.
Then one night late in 1853 something happened that was to bring about the restoration of Mt. Vernon and make it forever a shrine for America and for all the world that believed in the democracy of man. A South Carolina lady, once a member of the Virginia Byrds, but now Mrs. Robert Cunningham, rode down the Potomac one moonlight night. As the bells tolled she saw Mt. Vernon, its shabbiness cloaked in the silvery light. She thought of Washington but her dreams were interrupted by the cries of the vendors. It seemed to her that the decaying plantation was a thing of which her country should be ashamed. Even after she reached home the mood persisted. It finally vented itself in a letter to her daughter, Ann Pamela.
Ann Pamela was a sensitive and intelligent young lady who had endured years of ill health and who had hopes of nothing better in the future. When her mother's letter arrived, she was under the care of a Philadelphia physician. Part of the letter said: "I was painfully distressed at the ruin and desolation of the home of Washington, and the thought passed through my mind: Why was it that the women of his country did not try to keep it in repair, if the men could not do it?"
Why not, wondered Ann Pamela. She sat down to write a letter that was soon to become famous. It was dated December 2, 1853, and it began: "To the ladies of the South! Can you still stand with closed souls and purses, while the world cries 'Shame' on America?—suffer Mt. Vernon, with all its sacred associations, to become—as it is spoken of, and is probably—the seat of manufactories and manufacturers? * * * Oh, it cannot be possible!" At the end she signed "A Southern Matron."
The letter caused much talk in South Carolina and brought three hundred dollars from the neighboring women. However, $200,000 were needed to purchase Mt. Vernon from John Washington. Ann Pamela wrote more letters, and more southern ladies sent money. Up in Boston, Edward Everett began talking about the southern ladies and the New England ladies saw no reason why they should not help. It was not long before all the states were joining the Mt. Vernon Ladies Association.
It is a long story—this one of Ann Pamela and how she purchased Mt. Vernon—and most of it must be slighted in this retelling. While the money was being raised there came a "depression" said by history to have been darker and longer (to the present date) than our own. At first John Washington was loath to sell to the Association, and there was opposition from many factions. Ann Pamela was ill and sometimes wrote her appeals while she was strapped to a couch. But in 1858 Mt. Vernon was bought. It belonged to all the people of the United States, not to one state alone as many Virginians had long hoped.
Yet the purchase was but one step. Mt. Vernon must be restored. Before the work was fairly started the Civil War was on. Years passed and there was very little money for Ann Pamela and her ladies. When she could do no better, she lived at Mt. Vernon, supervising the Negro laborers from her couch.
Time passed and wealth and wealthy women came into the Association. Each state took over some task of restoration. Gifts poured in. Pictures, mirrors, tables, and clocks that had belonged to Washington were returned. There was even a gift from a king of France who had gone before the guillotine. It was a beautiful rug that Washington had never seen.
In 1875 Ann Pamela Cunningham died—died before she could write the record of her achievement. But the work went on. Mrs. Hearst of California built a wall to protect the land from the inroads of the Potomac. Thomas Edison helped plan the lighting system. One of the most efficient fire prevention systems in the world was installed and parts of it so skillfully hidden among the shrubs and flowers a fire chief of a great city could not see it and wrote an indignant letter about allowing Mt. Vernon to be subjected to fire.
Colonel Harrison Dodge came to live at Mt. Vernon as a resident superintendent in 1885. Ever since that time he has used the utmost care in preserving the beautiful home and aiding in its restoration. Not so long ago he was standing in the General's room with its low ceilings and its great four-posted bed. He looked at the rough plastered walls. It seemed strange to him that Washington, who had worn a blue coat lined with red satin, a white satin waistcoat, and gold buckles at his wedding and who had placed much stress on the dignities and formalities of life, should be content to sleep in a room with these plastered walls. The Colonel tapped the wall. A piece of plaster fell down, and he found the remains of paper. The color was gone and the pattern was dim, but there remained enough for the Colonel to see that it was a landscape design—pond, house, and sunset.
Then began a search. He wrote letters to every one in America and in foreign countries whom he thought could help him. His appeal was broadcast from movie houses. Just as he was beginning to despair, he visited in Baltimore and told his story. An old lady listened. "Just a minute," she said, and disappeared. When she came back she carried a portfolio. "I have the paper you want," she told the astounded man. She had visited Mt. Vernon with her parents when she was a small girl. The ill-kept place repelled her; it was hard for her to realize that the Washington of her stories had lived in such a home. She wandered away from her parents, and an old negro servant asked her if she would like something that had belonged to the "big General." He gave her a piece of wall paper, and it lay in her portfolio all these years.
With that clue Colonel Dodge was able to locate a Buffalo paper manufacturer who knew of an old New England house that had a room covered with almost the identical paper. The Colonel visited the house and found that the paper was blue in color. And so Washington's bedroom was covered in time for the 1932 celebration.
Colonel Dodge has lived at Mt. Vernon so long that he has become part of the place. Now and then he says, General Washington comes back, dressed in his old brown suit that he used to wear about the farm. The General, like the great realist history credits him with being, wants to know how things are getting along. And Colonel Dodge answers for the Mt. Vernon Ladies Association and for the American people that everything is as it should be at Mt. Vernon.