[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: So Young A Redd]

SO YOUNG A BRIDE Anna Prince Redd So young a bride! Oh may you know That laughter must help love to grow. Ahead is all of life to prize... So youngand yet so very wise! If ever there come troubled days _ In walking unfamiliar ways, Let never come a time when song Is silent on your lips for long. The heart is quick to understand The touch of an endearing hand. Life, through every threaded line, Is more of rose than gray design. Sheology Articles of Faith Lesson 19  Zion Tuesday, December 7, 1943 (This is the third chapter dealing with Article 10) Article 10""We believe... Continent, * * *" that Zion will be built upon this (the American) Lesson Aim: To show that the work of the Lord will cover the whole earth, and two capitals-will be established, one on the eastern and one on the western hemisphere, both of which will be Zion. CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 19, TALMAGE'S ARTICLES OF FAITH Two Gathering Places Some of the passages quoted in connection with the dispersion and the subsequent gathering of Israel make reference to Jerusalem, which is to be re-established, and Zion, which is to be built. True, the latter name is in many cases used as a synonym of the first, owing to the fact that a certain hill within Jerusalem of old was known specifically as Zion, or Mount Zion; and the name of a part is often used figuratively to designate the whole; but in other passages the separate and distinctive meaning of the terms is clear. Micah predicted the destruction of Jerusalem and its associated Zion (Micah Page 576 3:12), and then announced a new condition that is to exist in the last days, when another "mountain of the house of the Lord" is to be established and this is to be called Zion (Micah 4:1-2; Isaiah 2:2-3) Joel (Joel 3:16). Zephaniah (Zeph. 3: 14-16),' Zechariah (Zech. 1:17; 2:7- 12), Isaiah ( Isa. 4:3-4; 40:9), as well as other prophets, have looked forward toward Zion and Jerusalem. The Name "Zion" By derivation, Zion probably meant bright or sunny; but this commonplace signification, is lost in the deeper and more affecting meaning LESSON DEPARTMENT that the word as a name and title came to acquire. The name has been applied as follows: 1. To the hill itself, or Mount Zion, and, by extension of meaning, to Jerusaiem. 2. To the location of the "mountain of the house of the Lord," which Micah predicts shall be established in the last days, distinct from Jerusalem. To these we may add another application of the name as made known through moder revelation, ViZ.: 3. To the City of Holiness, founded by Enoch, the seventh patriarch in descent from Adam, and called by him Zion.