"Information gleaned from manuscript, "The Bee Hive House 1854-1888," by Clarissa Young Spencer and her book, One Who Was Valiant, Spencer-Harmer. Short-story Writing Pear] Spencer Department of English, Logan Senior High School Another article on Short-story Writing by Pearl Spencer appeared in the June-July issue of the Magazine, page 389. DITORS agree that the chief difference between the gifted amateur and the writer who gets his stories published is not sincerity, understanding, or keen observation, for in any of these an amateur may be actually superior to a given professional. No, one must have another qualification to win prizes or sell storiesa technique. Having learned how to use material effectively, a writer may produce good, bad, or mediocre stories, according to her conscience and talents; but at least she'll have a possibility of marketing them. Until she has acquired a technique, however, she must be satisfied with the plaudits of loyal friends and the joy of writing for the fun of it. To point out some of the elements of short-story technique, "Eighteen in August," by Roma Rose, is here reprinted by permission of the author and Collier's magazine. This story has been chosen because it is the kind of story anyone of us might - think of writing, and, at the same time, it is expertly enough done to be acceptable to a magazine that places a very high premium indeed on expertness. In considering the story, "Eighteen in August," we find that there is nothing new about the theme: the struggle between the possessive mother and her child. Many authors have capitalized on its poignancy; it Page 540 has appeared in The Relief Society Magazine recurrently, and it is within anyone's ken, for one need not leave her neighborhood to encounter it, If the choice of theme is the first step in planning the story, a rather general plot situation must next be formulated. In this story, a young man, at the one moment when he might best free himself from his mother's possessiveness, cannot tear himself away, and as a result lives a life essentially incomplete. So far, any of us could do about as well. But now the question arises as to how to tell the story. How to depict the struggle and the decision. How to dramatize the long, empty years. How to give a striking conclusion to a story in which the whole point is that nothing happensgive it short-story form, in fact. "Eighteen in August" is one answer to these questions. In a few hundred words, Mrs. Rose tells how Professor Locke diffidently persuades young Woodbridge to make the decision that offers him freedom of soul. The rest of the story leaves us alone with the Professor, who did not achieve that freedom for himself. And suddenly we see that the story of the lad is also and primarily the story of the Professor's own youth and the decision he also had to make. The turning point in his life has also SHORT-STORY WRITING been revealed and the life-long consequences of his choice. The all-important unity of the story is never threatened by this device, for it is the Professor's story from the first word. It is seen through his eyes; he creates its emotional tone. We have finished with the lad when he makes his decision. It is with the Professor that we survey the future. Unity is also insured by the clarity with which the issue is defined: the right of a son to possess his own soul. It is in no sense a plea that boys go into the army instead of medicine, that they marry before they march away, or that they ignore the advice of their mothers. And notice that the issue is defined by the characters, not lectured about by the author. Note also the care with which the author has worked to make her characters convincing even though they are types, of course, not individuals in the true sense. The mothers are charming, vigorous, companionable women, the kind who could hold intelligent sons. The young man and the old are sensitive, loyal, and conscientious, but without the emotional drive that translates feelings into action. They are also the sort whose work is absorbing enough to make an almost satisfactory substitute for other things, leaving not too much time for "quiet desperation." Another important part of the plot construction is the preparation made for the Professor's words to become a decisive factor in the boy's life. Too often a talk, a picture, a single incident will be made the deciding factor in a story without the reader's seeing why it has such power. This has been a baleful weakness in too many "moral" stories. A reader will 541 accept the fact that the right word at the right time may alter a whole life, but he certainly ought to know why it was the right word and why the time was ripe for it. Study the extreme economy of explanation, the point where the unskillful writer so often bogs down. It would be an excellent exercise to expand this story, to discover whether its effectiveness would be increased by more detail. The sparseness of description may bother you, and again, it would be instructive to amplify it and compare results. (And here it might be mentioned parenthetically, that the stories in the files of the Magazine reveal that Utah women have a feeling for atmosphere, for the homely, memorable detail, for the color of every-day living that lends authenticity to many an otherwise almost formless nartrative. It is a gift to cultivate, never to sacrifice to glibness and stock phrases. ) In writing this story, of course, Mrs. Rose was working under the severe restrictions imposed by the short-short story''a most difficult form' she writes, and one which too often emerges a sketch or incident. It will be interesting to decide if and where she might have expanded it under different length requirements, or whether it has the "inevitable length" that Somerset -Maugham uses as one test of a good story. And when you come to the end of "Eighteen in August" pause long to admire the ending. It's hard to get a story of this kind ended effectively. When an author sums up a story in so perfect a bit of dramatic irony, we take off our hats to a job well done. 542 Along with any plea for aspiring writers to struggle to master the techniques of their craft, a warning should be sounded against too much devotion to the authors who have achieved publication with deft, "smart" writing which has little else to recommend it. This cheapening of talent can be followed in its stages by reading the groping but impassioned early work of some of our living 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINESEPTEMBER 1943