[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Chastity Statements of Jr]

Chastity The following statements are reprinted herewith because of the vital present-day need for the message which they contain: President Joseph F. Smith soTHERE are at least three dangers that threaten the Church within.... As I see these they are the flattery of prominent men in the world, false educational ideas, and sexual impurity. "But the third subject mentionedpersonal purity, is perhaps of greater importance than either of the other two. We believe in one: standard of morality for men and women. If purity of life is neglected, all other dangers set in upon us like the rivers of waters when the flood gates are opened." Gospel Doctrine, pp. 391-392. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. CHASTITY is fundamental to our life and to our civilization. If the race becomes unchaste, it will perish. Immorality has been basic to the destruction of mighty nations in the past. It will bring to dust the mighty nations of the present. ) "Fyvery one of us who instructs our youth, in whatever place or position, and in whatever capacity, must teach the young people of today to abstain from unchastity. We must surround our teachings with due and proper reserve and modesty. We must approach and teach the youth as the children of God, with spirits that are to live throughout eternity, and tell them plainly and clearly that the laws of God, and of man also, demand that they live chaste. If we shall teach anything less than this, we will destroy our youth and we will bring ourselves under a condemnation which is too great to be fathomed by the human mind. "In what I have said I include all of us parents. How can we parents face our Maker if we have failed in one featherweight to meet the duty which is ours in these matters? And let us not make the mistakeany of usof assuming that our children are beyond temptation and may not fall. This is a delusion and a snare that will bring us to the very depths. Let every father and every mother, every brother and every sister, stand guard day and night that their loved ones be not seized and carried away by lust. "You young people, may I directly entreat you to be chaste. Please believe me when I say that chastity is worth more than life itself. This is the doctrine my parents taught me; it is truth. Better die chaste than live unchaste. The salvation of your very soul is concerned in this."From an address delivered at the 109th Semi-annual Conference.