[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Dixie Hyde]
made of biscuit dough rolled thin and fried in butter. The hot summers made it almost impossible to keep food palatable. Milk would not keep sweet from morning until night. The butter would melt, the water was warm. All the housewife could do to cool the water was to wrap the water barrel in a wet blanket or carpet. The family dipper always hung on the side of the barrel. Occasionally, relatives from Salt Lake would send a few dried beans or apples. Always. Tucked away in the sack would be found a box of needles or pins, or a spool of thread. The first store was established by men from California, in the basement of the Snow house, called the "Big House." The men were boarded by my grandmother who lived upstairs. When Christmas came, they wished to make her a "nice" present, so gave her the "makings of a rice puddingtrice, eggs, and raisins"; she furnished the milk. FROM the very beginning these pioneers tried to have a school, even while they lived in tents. Sister Everett and later Sister Snell taught the children to read. My father tells about the boys crawling under the sides of the school tent and running away. "But," he says, "the girls never ran away." The great teacher of the time was Richard Horne. He did for these little children of Dixie what Karl G., Maeser did for the adults of the Church. These early days produced some unique characters, one of whom was "Aunt Mary Gates," a sister of Erastus Snow and wife of Jacob Gates. She had no children of her own, but DIXIE PIONEERS gathered the children of the town around her, and taught them Greek and Roman history, and even astronomy, which she tried to explain by using apples and sometimes oranges for the planets. She developed a unique philosophy. She would declare: Why dress children up and then scold them if they get dirty?... Why iron sheets in hot weather? Why not fold them up and sit on them? It is a great accomplishment to know what to slight.... When a person cooks one chicken for fifteen people, she should make plenty of gravy. No small problem was that of the pioneers' relationship with the Indians, who resented the coming of the white man and on several occasions waylaid travelers and murdered them. Grandfather's method of dealing with them was similar to that of Brigham Young's. When Indians came into St. George in crowds, he would kill a beef and divide it among them. He largely solved the Indian problem, for no one, with the exception of Jacob Hamblin, had greater influence with them. At one time when they were boys, my father and Uncle Willard Snow did not return from a rabbit hunt. Jacob Hamblin went with a group to hunt for them, finding them prisoners at an Indian camp. When he told the Indians that one boy was a son of Erastus Snow, they immediately released them. Old Mokiac was a patriarch, the chief of the Piutes. He had two sons, Mokiac and Limpy, who was crippled. Both were "mean." One day Mokiac appeared at President Snow's home and asked his wife for food. She gave him meat, and bread and butter. Then he demanded tea. She 549 said she had none, whereupon he pulled out his knife and flourished it about to frighten her. Fortunately, her son walked in and the Indian left; but Erastus Snow demanded of Old Mokiac that his son be punished, not by the whites, but by the Indians themselves. He was brought into the town by them and tied to the Liberty Pole where his father whipped him with a black whip, while the people looked on. AS the years passed by, the people began to have more conveniences and could think more of parties, of dramatics, and various types of entertainment. But many of the men who had helped to make this entertainment possible, never lived to see that day. At one time Erastus Snow reported to the Authorities of the Church that they had thirty or forty young widows who would have to rear their families alone. One man who had been "called" refused to stay, saying he would not give up his farm up north for the whole of southern Utah. Brother Adams, the poet laureate, wrote a song about it for one of the gatherings, wherein he sang, "He measured Mormon Dixie by the breadth of his thumbnail." Those pioneers of Dixie conquered the wilderness as other pioneers have done. It was a physical struggle to conquer physical obstacles. That strange mysterious thing which prompts men and women to answer the call of duty buoyed them up. They did not want pity nor ask for glory. They left their sons and daughters as a monument to their lives.

Dixie Pioneers
(Continued from page 549)
danced on the salt grass for their first Christmas celebration, where the old Liberty Pole was placed, or where the "Big House" stood. They conquered because they knew what they needed and they knew how to get it. They had a unity of purpose that carried them through.
In our generation we must conquer mental obstacles. It may be a more difficult problem. Let us pray that we may succeed as well as they.

Tomorrow's Cup
Anna Prince Redd
Chapter VI
Synopsis: Janet, protectingly reared in Washington, D. C., lives in constant dread of the San Juan country of Utah where her husband, Paul Morgan, has an Indian trading post on the mesa. She plans on their moving to Washington before the birth of her baby, but does not disclose this intention to her husband. Upon returning home with Paul after a happy week spent on the mesa, they find that Janet's sister, Rhae, and her husband, Warren Newsbaum, have arrived for a short visit with the announced intention of taking Janet back to Washington with them. The next morning Paul is hurt when he saves Warren from being dragged by a broncho. A few months later, while Paul, restored to health, is absent on a roundup, an Indian, Mike, threatens to kill Janet. She seeks refuge in the Devil's Corridor where she becomes unconscious. During the long days that follow, Janet lies in an unconscious condition, and when her child is born it lives only a few hours. After its birth, however, she falls into a natural sleep.
