presidency over the hearts and feelings o[-]

[Column 2]
all the sisters and of the brethren who
are assembled here in this meeting, and
that will assemble here this afternoon,
and that what is said may be said under
the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord,
also that what is done may be done
strictly with an eye single to the building
up of the Kingdom of God in the earth.
I feel that it is a great occasion to see so
many of the mothers and daughters of
Israel assembled together in one meet-
ing. I had no idea that I would see so
many, but I am pleased to see you and
pleased to meet with you, and as I said
before, I hope that we will have a time
of rejoicing together, that we will become
better acquainted with each other, and
that perchance the Lord will give to us,
some words of counsel, of inspiration, of
exhortation or of admonition, as the spirit
may direct, that will be beneficial to us
all, and that will help to lift up the
spirits, put joy into the souls and cour-
age into our hearts, and give us wisdom,
that we may be able to direct our lives
in the channel of peace, of good will
towards all mankind, and in the way
that will result in the greatest possible
good to ourselves and to all those with
whom we come in contact in our daily
walk in life. I look upon the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints as one of the most
important auxiliary organizations in the
Church. I think it is one of the greatest
importance, and in which very many vital
things, vital principles and vital necessi-
ties are involved—the necessities of the
poor, the necessities of the weak, the
necessities of the erring, and of those
that lack understanding, and the testi-
mony of the spirit of God in their hearts.
This organization is instituted and in-
tended for the correction of all these
imperfections, lacks and needs and the
filling up of all the vacancies that may
exist with perfect knowledge, perfect
understanding, perfect fidelity to duty,
and to the performance of those great
and good works  that are necessary for
these organizations to perform.
	Now may the Lord bless you, my
sisters and my brethren, and all that per-
taineth to you; may peace dwell in your
hearts, and may the love of truth ever
burn in your souls, that you may be de-
voted to the cause of Zion, that you
may be interested in this work in which
you are engaged, that you may sustain
your presiding officers, from first to last,
and respect authority, the authority that
the Lord has given, that He has insti-
tuted and established. A due regard and
respect for the authorities of the Church,
both in the Relief Society and all the
auxiliary organizations and in the various
organizations of the quorums of the
priesthood, and in the organizations of
the stakes of Zion and the wards of
the Church, in all these organizations
a proper regard and a proper and whole-
some respect for the authorities of the
Church is absolutely necessary to the en-
joyment of a proper spirit on the part of

[Column 3]
the Latter-day Saints. We cannot enjoy
the right spirit in our hearts if we neglect
to respect those things that God has done.
and the organizations that He has insti-
tuted for the government and guidance of
His people.
	Now may the Lord bless you. I realize
that it is late, and that it was not intend-
ed for me to say but a few words, and I
therefore shall close, by asking the Lord,
our Father, to bless you sisters, as moth-
ers, as wives, as daughters, and as mem-
bers of the Relief Society of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
may He prosper you in all your labors,
in your homes, in your outgoings and in-
comings, and when you shall lie down
and when you shall rise up; may peace
dwell in your souls; may your hearts be
lifted up, full of joy and thanksgiving to
the Father, and may you realize to the
fullest extent and in the fullest measure
that you are indeed engaged in the work
of salvation for the human family. This
is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


(Continued from page 8, June Number.)

