WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
A TRIP TO PORTLAND WITH THE PRESS
CLUB,
	It would be hard to find a jollier party
than the Utah Press Association on their 
recent trip to Portland and the Fair.
	On Monday evening, June 19th, we 
took the train for Portland. There were
in the party old people, young people, 
and middle aged people, mostly newspaper 
men and women.
	All day Tuesday we were speeding 
through Idaho with its great plains of
sage brush and here and there patches 
of green. We followed the course of 
the Snake river a great deal, and had a 
beautiful view of the American Falls in
that river.
	Wednesday morning we were all up
quite early, as we wished to see the sun
come up from behind the mountains and 
behold its first rays on the Columbia
river, and I can assure you it was a 
beautiful sight. As we sped along to- 
wards Portland, following directly the 
course of the river, we passed immense 
fishing wheels; the Columbia river is 
famous for its salmon, and all the im-
mense wheels we saw are used for catch-
ing that fish.
	We left the course of the Columbia at
a point about three hours' ride from 
Portland, and passed through a beautiful
country, very tall mountains on both sides
covered with pines and ferns, with every
here and there beautiful little waterfalls
bounding down their sides. We crossed
the Willamette river at East Portland
and arrived at the Union Depot at about
10:30 a.m.
	Immediately on our arrival in Portland
we were met by a committee, who ten-
dered the party (through Mr. D. P. Felt,
who was in charge,) all the privileges of 
the Fair.
	Most of the party stayed at the Ameri-
can Inn—a fine hotel inside the Fair
grounds, and here the Utah people were
very well treated; indeed, we were shown
courtesies wherever we went, Mr, D. P.
Felt in his pleasing way, arranging many
good times for all of us.
	The Fair grounds are ideally situated,
being on a beautiful lagoon surrounded
by mountains covered with pines and
ferns; the grounds themselves consisting
of sloping lawns and beautiful flower-
beds—for Portland, as you know, is noted
for its roses.

(Column 2)
	We visited and admired all the Fair
buildings, the Utah building being visited
oftenest, I suppose as Mr. Spencer Claw-
son kindly invited the Utah people to be 
perfectly at home in this building.
	The mineral exhibit from Utah is es-
pecially fine, as is also the educational
exhibit.
	As our days were spent in visiting the
different buildings, our evenings were
spent on the Trail, enjoying immensely
the many shows it has to offer.
	Besides seeing the Fair and all its at-
tractions thoroughly, we enjoyed a num-
ber of other trips.
	The Utah party with the members of
the California Press were the guests of
the Portland Board of Trade in a trip
up the Columbia river to Collin's Springs
and return. This was indeed a fine
trip; on both sides of the river rose ma-
jestic mountains covered with pines, and 
on one side were numerous waterfalls.
We passed through the Locks, that won-
derful piece of engineering which cost the
government such an immense sum of
money, and which made it possible for
steamers to pass through a portion of the
river otherwise unnavigable.
	As we would not reach our destination
till the afternoon, delicious refreshments
were served on the steamer, and when 
we reached Collin's Springs an elegant
dinner was served to over two hundred
people.
	This little resort (Collin's Springs)
would be an ideal place to spend the
summer facing the broad Columbia river
and having at its back the high fir-clad
mountains.
	Ont he return trip we had an impromp-
tu program, the Utah people taking their
part and showing their talent in a musical
as well as in an oratorical way. We arrived
at our hotel about midnight, after having
spent one of the most enjoyable days im-
aginable.
	This trip was up the river, and through
the courtesy of the Astoria and Columbia
River Railroad officials we were enabled
to take a trip down the river through
Astoria, past the mouth of the Columbia
and out to Seaside on the Pacific coast.
	The scenery all along was beautiful,
and when we reached Seaside we went to
the Moore hotel, which is situated on the
beach, looking out on the Pacific ocean.
A few of our party indulged in the surf-
bathing, but as it was rather cold most of
us were content to wander along the beach
and pick up shells.
	The street-car system in Portland is 
very good, and the street-car company
took the Utah party on a sight-seeing trip
all along the city, a courtesy which was
greatly enjoyed and highly appreciated 
by all participating.
	The Press Association of Utah certain-
ly had a fine trip; on every hand we were
well treated; just showing our Utah badg-
es seemed to insure our courteous treat-
ment and make us welcome.
	Especial thanks are due to Mr. D. P.
Felt, who had the party in charge, for
the able way in which he took care of
everybody and everything, treating every
one alike and making each one enjoy
everything possible to the utmost.
	Nothing could be more pleasant for a
summer outing, rest, or wedding trip than
a visit to Portland and the Fair and sur-
rounding country.
	Louise [handwritten]
	L. B. C.


