[Column 1]
furnished by the Cleveland choir was ex-
cellent.
	There was an officers' meeting held
during the noon hour, where the sisters
asked questions relating to relief society
work, which were all answered by the 
visiting sisters from the General Board.
	The conference was a decided success
in every way.
	The weather was pleasant, and the 
Cleveland sisters were very sociable and 
hospitable and entertained their visiting
friends royally.	
			MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held
its first annual conference June 9th, 1905, 
Sister Annie Wells Cannon presiding. 
The eleven wards of the stake were all 
represented and the remaining session
was devoted to reports given by the pres-
ident or counselors, and remarks were
made by Stake Counselors Lucy Smith
Acomb and Rebecca H. Pettit, after which
Pres. Wm. McLachlan gave some very 
good  advice to the sisters about their
work.
	At noon the stake officers served a 
luncheon for the presidents and guests.
	The guests were President McLachlan
and wife, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. 
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenbury, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Margaret Romney, Rebecca E.
Little and Carrie S. Thomas. 
	The afternoon session was exceedingly
interesting, all the visitors making excel-
lent remarks pertaining to the work of
the Relief Society.  Sister Hyde spoke
particularly about the Relief Society em-
ployment bureau and the care of young
 women who come to the city for work.
Sister Dusenberry spoke very interest-
ingly about children and the mothers' 
work.  Sister Beatie dwelt upon the 
nurse work and the great good the Relief
Society has accomplished in that line,
Sister Wells dwelt upon the duties of the
officers, talked reminiscently of Relief
Society work in the past and gave most 
interesting information of our present
work. The other sisters also spoke inter-
estingly of our labors in a general way,
but as we desire to give as far as possible 
the remarks of our honored and much
beloved President Bathsheba W. Smith
we have curtailed the report of the other
addresses on account of space. Sister 
Smith spoke twice, first at the beginning
and then at the close of the afternoon
session and her remarks were listened to 
with rapt attention and much appre-
ciated by the sisters and brethern pres-
ent.
Sister Smith said she had left the Tem-
ple to be with us today.  This was un-
usual, but she looked forward with pleas-
ure to this meeting.  Instructed mothers
to bring up their children with a knowl-
edge of the Gospel; study the Book of 
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants.
Prayed that every sister might be blessed
in Relief Society work, and that the Spir-
it of the Lord might always be with us. 
Amen.
	At the close of our conference she ad-
dressed us again as follows:
	"I never forgot the testimony I re-
ceived when I saw the Prophet, I knew
he was looking at me and I never forgot
it, because I knew I was a good girl.

[Column 2]
He said, 'Geo- A. got the right stick
when he got her.' I was so pleased to 
think he was satisfied with his cousin's
choice.
	"I always went to meeting. I always
do now. I hardly ever miss a Sab-
bath.
	When I had my endowments Brother
Joseph was there. Sister Emma talked
to us a good deal on the subject of plural 
wives. I believe that was as true as any
principle the Prophet taught, and I be-
lieve it yet, but for the time it is taken
away from us. I don't think the Prophet
or any of our leaders ever taught us any-
thing wrong. I have always been pleased
that I had my endowments when the
Prophet lived. He taught us the true
order of prayer. I never like to hear a 
sermon without hearing something of the 
Prophet, for he gave us everything, every
order of the priesthood, and when he was 
taken away we had Brigham Young.
Many had a testimony, a strong testi-
mony of him. I remember when the 
Prophet wanted to get rid of Sidney 
Rigdon as a counselor, how Hyrum, his
brother, plead for him and Joseph kept
him, although he was ambitious and not 
true. I would like to have every one
read the Book of Mormon. The plates
are in safe keeping and some day we will
have the rest of it—it is a true record,
we can see how faithful we should be not
to lose our faith in the Gospel. I don't
know any more to say only to have all
faith in Joseph and his successors to the 
present time. I have the book of the Re-
lief Society Sister Eliza kept, and I am
very proud of it. We were taught in our 
first Relief Society to look after the 
morals of the young sisters, to be good to
the poor and needy and I think we did
so and we were good to the poor. The
sisters flocked to our meetings every
week, and the Prophet Joseph met with
us as long as he could. When he was in 
trouble the sisters got up a petition to the 
governor of the state for him and he was 
most grateful. He said he had given the 
sisters instructions that they could admin-
ister to the sick and he wanted to make
us, as the women were in Paul's day, "A
kingdom of priestesses."
	We have the ceremony in our endow-
ments as Joseph taught. Amen.
	Sister Cannon regretted there were not
more present, as we have had a great
spiritual feast. Thanked our visitors for 
the many encouraging and beautiful
things they had said. Conference ad-
journed until Dec. 9, 1905, after singing,
"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.
Benediction by Sister Pettit.
			CLARA L. CLAWSON, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE
	MORNING SESSION.—The Annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Oneida
Stake convened in the Academy, June 3, 
1905. Pres. Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Present on the stand: five members of 
the Stake Board, Clarissa S. Williams of
the General Officers, and Elizabeth S.
Wilcox a Relief Society missionary from
Salt Lake City, Counselor Jos, S. Geddes,
and High Counselor Jno. E. Dalley and
James R. McNeil.
	Singing--"Come let us anew" etc.
Prayer, James R. McNeil. Singing—
"How firm a foundation" etc. Roll called. 
Fifteen wards represented ninety-nine

[Column 3]
members present. Minutes of morning
session of conference held Nov. 26, 1904
approved. 
	Pres. Louisa B. Benson reported the
Stake as being in a satisfactory condition
Said the sisters were laboring earnestly
to care for the aged and sick, and that
the officers were much encouraged.
	Statistical and financial report read
and approved. General and Stake officers
unanimously sustained, with the follow-
ing changes in the Stake board.—Elsie
B. Alder, Sec. and Treas. having moved 
away, was honorably released with a vote
of thanks. Phebe A. M. McNeil was sus-
tained as Sec. Linda N. Benson as re-
cording Sec. and Jennie W. Rallison as 
Treas.
	Lucy Cutler sang "God bless my kind
old Mother." The following branches
were reported—Cedarville, Preston 1st
Ward, Fairview, Dayton and Preston 2nd
Ward.
	Clarissa S. Williams said, "Work dili-
gently and the Lord with hless you. Our 
Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith sends love and 
greeting. We are pleased with your re-
ports. We appreciate your efforts to at-
tend your meetings, spoke in regard to
fairs. Suggested that the sisters make 
childrens clothing and keep articles for
sale, it will be renumerative and perhaps 
interest some who are negligent and care-
less; as mothers our first duty is to our
children.
	Reports continued: Oxford, Clifton,
Franklin, Preston 3rd Ward, Weston and 
Mink Creek.
	Counselor Jos. S. Geddes said—"The
Lord is bringing to pass his purposes in
the earth. *	*	* Encourage your
husbands and sons in the performance of
duty.
	Singing "O Jesus the giver" etc. Ben-
diction Bro. Jno. E. Dalley. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing—"High
on the Mountain tops" etc. Prayer, Bish-
op Hugh S. Geddes. Singing—"O ye
mountains high" etc. Minutes of after-
noon session of previous conference ap-
proved."
	The following branches reported—
Whitney, Preston 4th Ward, Glendale
and Riverdale. Summary of all reports. 
The branches throughout the Stake in
good condition; Mother's work successful
in all excepting two places; poor, sick, 
aad aged well cared for; grain being 
stored in all wards. Sisters Lucy Cutler
and Florence Hadlock sang a duet, "Only
Remembered."
	Sister Wilcox spoke of nobility of work
in caring for the unfortunate. The intro-
duction of Mother's Work in a systematic
way proving a great blessing to all. Those
who attend duties in R. S. Work are 
strengthened for daily labor, find joy and
energy, their attendants; endorsed Sister
Williams suggestion of having ready made 
clothing on hand.
	Piano Solo, Sister Eva Johnson.
	Elder Wm. Preston of Weston Ward
spoke of the blessing the Relief Society 
is to Bishops, Asked all to become
active workers, thought we were a blessed
people. Spoke of means and energy ex-
pended in preaching the Gospel to all. 
	Clarissa S. Williams encouraged all in
daily labors. Spoke of the power of kind
words and trouble caused by harsh ones.
Said no one should accept a duty she
could not or would not fulfill. Encouraged


