A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Notwithstanding the announcement
made in the May number of our paper,
and the more elaborate notice in June of
the birthday anniversary of our honored
President of the Relief Society there
still remains much to say and "The half
can never be told," in this little paper,
but we feel it is due to the University of
Provo that did such great honor to Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith to make more
than a passing mention.
	We do feel that the Professors, teach-
ers and students of that famous institu-
tion were more than generous in the
ovation given our beloved veteran sister
and mother in Israel, and that the
example they have set in thus showing
reverence to one of Zion's most cele-
brated women, one of Utah's heroines
will be a blessing and credit to that great
University of learning.
	A committee with carriages met the
party at the station and escorted the en-
tire company to the University grounds
where the ladies and gentlemen all were
most courteously recieved and welcomed.
President Joseph F. Smith and President


John R. Winder were honored guests 
and about twenty-five others. We were
first ushered into the Devotional room 
where the students meet for morning
prayer, and President Winder offered an
eloquent prayer, from there we went to 
the large Auditorium where the students 
were assembled, the entire assemblage
rising to their feet to welcome their Pres-
ident and guests, President Joseph F.
Smith, President of the Faculty of the 
University.	The exercises under the
direction of Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall were
altogether of an elevating nature, Presi-
dent Jos. F. Smith's address was espe-
cially brilliant and abounded in excellent
testimonials of love, honor and esteem
for the lady in whose honor the college
had convened. The musical exercises
under the direction of Prof. Anthon H.
Lund were melodiously uplifting.
	After the morning exercises we repaired
to the large and commodious hall of the
Gymnasium, where an elaborate banquet
was spread that had been prepared and was
served by the class of Domestic Science.
The afternoon in the Tabernacle and the 
reception in the evening were very de-
lightful and surely Provo did herself proud
in honoring the guest of the day and her
followers.


The evening of the second day of fes-
tivities when the Hon. W. N. Williams 
and his good wife entertained their "Aunt
Bathsheba" and her friends was partic-
ularly pleasant. President Joseph F. 
Smith spoke of the Elect Lady in the 
highest terms of praise and commenda-
tion and we all said Amen, other speak-
ers there were who were profuse in words
of love and esteem, and several brought 
precious gifts and tokens in appreciation
of friendship and sisterly love. 
	Delicious refreshments were served by
the amiable daughters of the host and 
hostess and there was some fine singing by
young ladies and a band of Juvenile boys
serenaded the veteran sister with sweet
music on the outside. 
	The sisters of the General Board pre-
sented their beloved President with the 
new edition in large type of the Book of 
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
the Secretary had the honor of saying a 
few loving words for the Board when 
making the presentation.


