[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US 

[Column 2]
			IN MEMORIAM. 
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Lorine O,
Davis, who died June 15th, 1905. Sister Lorine is 
gone, those words brought sorrow to many hearts
in the little town of Toquerville; Sister Davis was
the wife of Philetus G. Davis, both were members
of this ward. Sister Davis was visiting her daugh-
ter Mrs. Lyman Dodge, of Silver City, Utah, had
been from home only a short week when the sad
news came of her death, funeral services were held
at Silver City, her casket which was beautiful was
covered with hot house flowers presented by her
many friends. The body reached her home here
on Sunday morning June 18th where a large con-
gregation assembled to pay their last tribute of re-
spect to the departed:
	The speakers were; Counselor H. Naegle, Elder 
W. H. Slack, and Bishop Wm, A. Bringhurst and 
each spoke of the many good qualities of the de-
ceased. 
	Sister Davis was born in Groveland, Mass., May
15th, 1842. Was the daughter of the late Patriarch
Samuel B. Hardy and wife of St. George, and 
came with her parents in President Wilford
Woodruff’s Co,, to Utah in 1850.
	She was a member of the Relief Society and at
the time of her death was a teacher and appraiser
in the Society; she had been a member of the Ward
choir for many years, she was the mother of 7
children, 4 of whom preceded her to the great be-
yond, three daughters with 17 grandchildren are 
left to mourn her loss; and the husband the com-
panion of her married life is left alone to receive
comfort in the thought, that in Christ all will die,
so in Christ may all be made alive. Bro. Davis,
await for time is short. Prepare to meet her in the 
land of peace and happiness.
	Be it Resolved, by the members of the Toquer-
ville Relief Society, that we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved further, that a copy of these resolutions 
together with the above tribute be printed in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and a copy be sent to P. G. 
Davis at Silver City, Utah.
					R. J. SPILSBURY, Pres.
