BOX ELDER STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Box Elder Stake met in the Brigham City
tabernacle, June 6, 1900. The morning
meeting, President Susannah P. Booth 
presiding. Present besides stake Relief
Society officers, were President Oleen N.
Stohl and Counselor Horsley, General
Board were Counselor Annie T. Hyde
and Susan Grant. Singing, "Oh, ye
mountains high." Opening prayer, Presi-
dent Oleen N. Stohl. Singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet."
Minutes of previous forenoon confernee 
read and approved. Roll called, all but
five wards represented. 
President Booth felt pleased to meet us
again in conference, said, "We will have
an officers' meeting this morning. We
are always pleased to have our sisters
from Salt Lake to meet with us, as we
were not all able to go to Salt Lake to
Relief Society conference. We shall en-
joy their presence and good counsel.
Pres. A. C. Jensen, reported Mantua;
Charlotte W. Boden reported the 2nd
ward; Sister Sarah M. Fredal, president
of Bear River City, reported; Sister 
Thompson, of Elwood, reported; Sister
Sophia Anderson reported Bothwell ward. 
Sister Mary E. Ward, president of Wil-
lard, reported. President Lydia E.
Watkins reported the Beaver ward, Pres-
ident Urania C. Nelson reported the
Thatcher ward. 
All these sisters made excellent reports
especially in reference to saving grain,
caring for the needy and the mothers'
work.
The stastical report of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society was read by Secre-
tary Annie J. Wixom.
Sister Annie T. Hyde first counselor to 
President B. W. Smith, was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to listen to the
good reports, and spoke of the unity
which existed amongst us, liked to hear
of the spiritual feelings of the sisters, said
we were like unto Christ, going about
trying to do good, thought we could not
appreciate the good the Relief Society
was to us, said we ought to have mission-
aries appointed to visit strangers who
come amongst us, to extend to them a 
helping hand, to make them feel at home. 
Spoke on her work in the bureau of in-
formation, how whenever she can she al-
ways tells of the Relief Society and the
work accomplished, and said we had thir-
ty-three thousand women in our society.

[Column 2]
We should use a kind influence in our
families, and our homes to keep them to-
gether. Said a few words on the circu-
lar letter, which was read at our Stake
conference, pertaining to the employ-
ment bureau. Spoke on the wheat prop-
osition, said we should have a proper se-
curity on the loaning of our wheat, said a 
few words in reference to our mothers'
work, said she hoped we were conducting
it under the Relief Society, thought the
stake board meeting should be held once
a month, made a few remarks on con-
ducting a bazaar. 
President Booth said a few closing
words, meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. 
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee. 
Benediction by Brother Crawford. 
2 p. m. Singing, "Redeemer of 
Israel," etc. Opening prayer by Lucius
A. Snow. Singing, "Earth with her ten
thousand flowers," etc.
Minutes of previous afternoon confer-
ence were read and accepted, roll called
of associations not represented in the
morning, three responding. 
Sophia Larson, president of East Gar-
land, Sister Snow, of West Garland, re-
ported.  Rebecca Thorn, president of
Perry, reported.
Sister Susan Grant was very pleased to
meet with us, had been edified and
blessed in the instructions and listening
to the reports. Felt it was a great priv-
ilege in mingling with the sisters in the
different stakes, had been connected with
the Relief Society for many years, Felt 
she could not give any more new instruc-
tions. But we met together to encour-
age one another, had been in the Church
all her life and knew the Prophet Joseph,
felt to testify that he was a prophet of
God. Thought it was nice for younger 
sisters to take hold and help the older
sisters in the Relief Society work. Felt
that the sisters who did not get out to
meetings needed spiritual food and the
teachers would be the ones who could go
and visit them, and thus get the spirit of 
that home; said, let us be broad in all
things, we must attend to our duties if 
we want our children to attend their duty.
"we can be guided by the Spirit of the
Lord if we don't neglect our prayers."
Related how her son was blessed while
sick by administration. "Let us be faith-
ful and true to every responsibility placed
upon us." Said a few words in regard to
the storing of grain. If we are alive to
our duties the Lord will bless us. 
A duet entitled "Mother," was sung by 
Sisters Emma and Sadie Stohl, accom-
panied by Maud Sorensen.
Sister Annie T. Hyde felt it quite a re-
sponsibility to speak to the mothers, but
prayed the Lord to give her utterance
that she might say something to the sis-
ters to encourage them. Spoke of con-
fidence in one another in our homes. Said
the Lord has promised to bless us if we 
put our trust in him, knew that our fath-
ers that have passed away to the other
side are watching over us. Spoke a few
words on criticism, said how careful we 
ought to be that our children might not
hear coarse jests or anything that is not
good for them. Took great pains in
telling strangers about the purity of our
young people. Gave many good instruc-
tions on the care of our children, encour-
aged the mothers to take part in the
mothers' work. Said Sister Smith sent

[Column 3]
her love to all the sisters and wished them
to be united. Had been interested in
the reports given; and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow had
been pleased with the teachings given 
this afternoon. Wished the sisters to
read one of the revelations in the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants referring to the
sick, wished we had faith enough to fol-
low out the instructions given in that
revelation, we must cultivate faith, he 
felt now that he could acknowledge the 
hand of God in everything that transpired
around him. Asked the Lord to bless us
with His Spirit.
Pres. Susannah P. Booth was pleased
to say that all the associations had been 
represented, if not in person by letter, as 
three of our associatsons were represented
by letter, there being 21 associations in 
all. Thanked the sisters who had come to
visit us, and who gave us such good in-
structions. Asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
Counselor Louisa E. Peters said a few
words in regard to holding our meetings. 
Conference adjourned for six months. 
Singing "Come, come ye Saints." Bene-
diction by Counselor Clem Horsely.
LETTIE FORSGREN, Cor. Sec. 
NEBO STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Nebo Stake convened in the 
Second Ward meeting-house at Payson, 
at 10:30 o'clock, July 14, 1905, president
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
After the usual opening exercises the 
President welcomed the brethren and 
sisters and expressed her regret at not 
having visitors from the General Board
present but felt that if they depended
upon the Lord they would have a good
time.
Sister Elizabeth Wall of Santaquin re-
ported the society of that ward in good
condition. Sister Mary A. Price of Gosh-
en reported the society of that ward;
Palmyra Society by President Annie C.
Holm; Sister Carrie Holt of Spanish
Fork 1st ward was glad to report that 
society. People are good to donate and 
care for the poor.
Sister Mary S. Zabriskie, Pres. of the
society in Eureka, hoped to learn to love
the people of Nebo Stake as they did 
those of the Juab Stake. We are labor-
ing under great difficulties. Have a great
many poor and try to help them in every
way we can.
Amanda Hansen of Payson 1st Ward
sang, "For Sale, A Baby."
Sister Forsey of Mammoth Ward felt
proud to report the society of that ward.
A sister reported the society of Silver
City Ward, they are a very small ward
have no teachers, but Pres. and Counsel-
ors visit once a month and try to help the
poor. 
Sister Lula Erlandson of Payson First
Ward gave a recitation. Bro. Jonathan S. 
Page, Pres. of Nebo Stake said it is the
means of gaining strength to attend the 
Relief Society conference, related an in-
cident in missionary experience. Sister
Dixon requested all to stay and have
lunch, meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock.
Afternoon session meeting reconvened
at 2 o'clock, Sister Lilyus C. Page pre-
siding.
Sister Martha D. Simons felt that it was


the greatest pleasure of her life to be as-
sociated with the Saints of God. Said the
Relief Society is one of the greatest or-
ganizations that have ever been organized.
Sister Fannie B. Simons of Payson, 2nd
ward society recited "Darkins Night."
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemons said
the Relief Society is one of the greatest
organizations we have, spoke on sustain-
ing the Priesthood and those in authority
over us in the various organizations.
	Song, "Dora Dell" by three young girls
from Payson, 2nd Ward.
	Sister Lydia Soefner just home from 
the mission field esteemed it a great priv-
ilege to be at a Relief Society conference.
believed the Lord blesses the mothers in
Zion, related a prophecy given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young regarding the moth-
ers in Zion, thought it would be the great-
est blessing to become a mother, had at-
tended the Relief Society in the mission
field, she rejoiced in the gospel more than
anything else, its system is perfect and
we should live it more strictly in our
homes, prayed for the Lord to especially
bless the mothers in Zion.
	Bro. Smith Tanner of the High Council
felt pleased to be here. Spoke of moth-
ers in Zion and molding the character of
the young.
	Bishop Jesse S. Taylor of 2nd Ward of
Payson felt very pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters and all who had taken
part, related some stories he had read
also spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and fhe organization of the Relief Society,
felt to ask the Lord to bless us all. Bishop
Justin A. Loveless of Payson 1st Ward
could not be present at the morning ses-
sion felt sorry, had enjoyed the confer-
ences in the past. Spoke on the work of 
the Sisters of the Relief Society in caring 
for the poor and sick, compared them
with the labors of the Savior. Prayed the
Lord to bless all the Relief Society work-
ers. Also spoke of the nurses class, Re-
lief Society Bureau of imployment for 
young girls who go to Salt Lake City to
work.
Sister Page said it is time to bring our
conference to a close, thought we had had
a good time today, thanked the choir and
all who had taken part. The choir sang,
"For the Strength of the Hills we bless
Thee." Benediction, Alexander Cowan.
