[Column 1]
		A DAY OF WONDERS.
	There are so many important events
transpiring nowadays, that one is at a 
loss to decide what material is best or of
the most consequence to write about. 
Newspapers, journals and magazines are
filled to overflowing with the wonderful
doings, inventions and discoveries of the 
present day.  Verily it is an age of won-
ders and the fulfillment of prophecy. 
	I think one may be safe in saying that
there never was so much travel and traffic
before as now, this present year will
mark in this respect more going to and fro 
in the earth, and wandering up and down
than there has ever been in the annals of 
history. People are seeing everything in 
the way of scenery and countries, cities
and towns are in this way becoming fam-
iliar to the masses even. Whether the
information gained will result in perman-
ent good remains with the future, but

[Column 2]
seriously speaking, there must be greater 
enlightenment, and it cannot fai to be be-
neficial in some ways, in comparing notes
and methods on various subjects and in 
the exercise of greater charity as one
comes to know conditions, circumstances
and environments. 
	Yet withal there are many things to 
deplore, notwithstanding all the progress
made, all the knowledge gained, yet na-
tions still persist in fighting each other, 
and refusing negotiations of peace, there-
fore one cannot help thinking there is
still much to be done before the dawn of 
the Millennial day.
	There certainly is in the outlook from 
our point of view a better prospect for 
uniting forces for any great world-move-
ment than ever before, and this is hope-
ful. One of the good points made by 
President Roosevelt in his recent address
to a delegation of Trades Unionists was, 
"You must remember that arbitration 
isn't everything. You must also consid-
er conciliation."
	When the second Hague conference 
convenes, which will be called by Presi-
dent Roosevelt it is said, as soon as the 
Eastern war ends, the measures taken 
will not only extend the use of arbitration
but consider the nature of conciliation. 
Another measure to be proposed is "The
formation of a World's Advisory Congress
composed of delegates of all the nations
to meet every two or three years to con-
sider international questions and to rec-
commend international laws."
	This is a very large subject, but it is 
one of the most intense interest and 
women have considered this question of
internationalism ever since, if not before
the great International Council of Wom-
en was organized in Washington in 1888. 
It is to the writer a very fascinating sub-
ject. Some women have grasped a few of 
the elements of this subject of inter-
nationalism, and many more might if they 
would give some attention to it. We are
apt to talk of the betterment of the whole
world, and we try to teach patriotism to 
the children iu the schools, and to the 
grown up people in the various organiza-
tions, and it don't require a very great de-
gree of college education or learning to 
master the subject of world-wide inter-
nationalism; a little geography, history, 
psychology, some every day logic and a 
desire for justice for all mankind would
he necessary, to be sure, but the vast
amount of good that has been accom-
plished already by the international so-
cieties among women proves what great
results might come from similar move-
ments of both men and women. The 
Peace and Arbitration International Con-
gress is perhaps the best illustration we
have to offer at the present time, and the 
Peace meetings held under the auspices
of the National and International Coun-
cil are helping to educate the people in
this one important line of international-
ism, and this spirit will eventually come
to be a power for good against the evils
that prevail in the world.


