		ALPINE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine 
Stake Relief Society was held at Amer-
ican Fork July 21st 1905.
	President Rebecca Standring presiding.
We were favored with the presence of
our beloved President Bathsheba W.
Smith, also Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board, all the Stake officers and
a full attendance of officers and members
of the wards. Meeting opened at 10
o'clock with the usual exercises. President
Standring gave a report of Alpine Stake
The Stake numbers something over 800

<Column 2>
members in 13 wards, have conjoint
meetings in 3 districts every three months,
also a monthly meeting of the officers of
the 4 wards of Am. Fork. The stake
officers meet oncc a month to report visits
and prepare work for the coming months,
and enjoy a good spiritual meeting in 
love and unity. Song by three little girls
"Count your blessings."
	General President B. W. Smith spoke
a short time. Thought it was better to 
count our blessings than to brood over our
troubles. Spoke of storing grain and ad-
vised the sisters to have good bins. Re-
ferred to the time, when the Presidency
used to counsel the brethren to lay up
sufficient grain to last their families seven
years, but the brethren did not take the 
advice, and the President put it into the
hands of the sisters to store grain for a
time of need. Advised the sisters to be in 
harmony with the Presidency and to be
united together to attend to the sick and 
poor, and to be sure and know that "Mor-
monism is true".
	To get a testimony of the work and to
teach it to their children. In Nauvoo they 
had the Prophet with them and he taught
them many glorious principles. She loved
to work in the Temple, had also worked
in the Nauvoo Temple. The work here
is carried on the same as it was in Nauvoo,
and the Temple is filled every day.
Prayed the Lord to bless the sisters in 
all their labors and may we meet together
again when called to the great beyond.
	Sister C. S. Williams: "The spirit of 
praise and thanksgiving should be in our
hearts continually for the blessings we re-
ceive". Was pleased with the idea of 
conjoint meetings of the wards and would
try to spread the custom. Advised
mothers to keep the girls at home as far
as possible, for they have no idea of the 
snares and temptations they will have to
meet. Gave good advice to the teachers
to seek the spirit of their work.
	Stake Coun. A. C. Hindley said many
had made sacrifices to attend this con-
ference. They had laid aside their cares
and come here to be fed by theHoly Spirit
and receive blessing. This is a noble
work and may we all be willing to do our 
part.
	American Fork 1st ward reported by
Pres. Elisabeth Durrant.
	Lehi 1st ward by Pres. Marian Ander-
sen.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman
spoke on the subject of harmony and 
order. When the Lord has any message
to reveal He gives it to his appointed ser-
vants, showing that the Lord has his
appointed servants, showing that the
Lord has his authority on the earth. He
inspired his servant Joseph to organize
this society and the good these sisters are
doing is immense. After singing and prayer
Conference adjourned until 2 oclock.
		(To be continued.)


Mme. Rolland, a Belgian, attained her
104th birthday on June 12. She is cred-
ited in Belgium with being the only living
witness of the battle of Waterloo; having
been seated on a wall in the neighbor-
hood of the battlefield during a part of
the engagement. Last year, when the
French monument to Waterloo heroes
was unveiled on the battlefield, Mme.
Rolland was alloted a place of honor as
the most noteworthy spectator present.


