[Column 1]
AN INDIAN SCARE.
		A TRUE STORY OF EARLY DAYS.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning I think
in February, in 1853, in the then small 
town of Nephi, Utah. Nearly all of the 
adult inhabitants were in the log meeting
house.  A peaceful spirit pervaded the 
place. We were listening to a fine dis-
course by the President, Elder Joseph L.
Heywood, I was leaning my head against
the side of the house when I heard the 
terrible war whoop which rang down from
the snowy side of old Mount Nebo, where
the Indians, had their winter wickeups, I 
heard the clatter of many horses' hoofs, 
and ere the people were aware of trouble
the Indian warriors surrounded the house.
The five windows and the door were 
crowded with the dark angry faces, their
eyes fierce, and visage stern, no pity
lingering near, for the defenceless wor-
shippers; guns and arrows were pointed
at every one in the house, and apparently
every moment was our last; some of the
men that sat with their backs to the win-
dows, were a little nervous, but Pres. 
Heywood's calm voice quieted them. "Sit
still brethren don't move. You are as safe
there as anywhere in the house," he said.
	The Indian Chief Old Batteus threw
open the door, and strode to the fireplace,
turned his back to the fire, and faced the 
audience, who astonished and quiet, sat
awaiting results. One resisting motion,
one note of alarm, and death awaited us.
But there was hope, in the Father in
Heaven, that He would preserve us from
the fury of the untamed savages.
	The old chief, erect and defiant, com-
menced dancing, and singing the "Death
Song." He threw off his blanket, still
singing and dancing and one article of
clothing after another, until the naked
savage was brought to a stop by President
Heywood springing forward, picking up
his dirty breech-clout, handed it to the 
angry owner, and calmly commanded
him to put it on. Old Batteus obeyed. 
The dance was stopped. The song was
silenced. That one act of our President,
with the blessing of the Lord saved us
for had Batteus gone on unmolested, at
a raise of his hand, and a pitch of his
song, the signal would have been given,
for the Indians to fire, and none could 
have escaped, hemmed in as we were.
	The peace of the Lord was with us.
We felt His care was over us. A talk
ensued, and after hours of talk and inter-
pretation, the old chief confessed that he 
was angry, because the night before, a 
sub-chief had been appointed by the Mor-
mons, chief over him, and he didn't like
it. He wouldn't have it so. He was Big 
Chief, and Big chief he still would be.
	"He is not Chief over you" was told
him, "You are the Big Chief, and he is
the Little Chief" "we told him to teach 
his Indians not to fight, not to kill, not to
steal, nor to lie, that is all." "He was
not to meddle with you. He is not over."
	The heart of the old fellow softened
The wild savage relented. After all he 
was still Big Chief, with no one over him.
He demanded tobacco. President Hey-

[Column 2]
wood said, "Hand out your tobacco
bretheren," Every man that used it, pull-
ed it out of his pocket, and parts of plugs
were handed over from one to another
until all they had was given to the Inter-
preter, who gave it to the chief, who took 
it with a grunt of satisfaction.
	"Quinch in bungo ash nida mina" was
the next demand.
	"Who has an ox they will give Bat-
teus?" asked President Heywood.
	"I have a white ox he can have" an-
swered one of the brethren.
The young Interpreter told Batteus
that he could have an ox in the morning.
	"I will send for it he said," He was
pacified. He could have a big feast. He
went out, called off his warriors, and they
rode rapidly away to the camp, on
the side of Mount Nebo.
	How thankful we were that our lives
were spared, and that the ordeal was
over.
	Some even laughingly said "Batteus
wanted an ox, and thought he would
scare us to get one."

