IN MEMORIAM.

	I feel it my painful duty to announce through
the Exponent the departure of my dear and only
sister, Elizabeth P. Bentley, from this vale of
tears to a holier sphere. Her pure and gentle
spirit left its earthly tabernacle on the morning
of December 6, at 5 o’clock. The funeral took
place yesterday at 12 m. The stores and busi-
ness houses were closed and the Temple hands
were released at that hour so that all could at-
tend,she having been one of their number. Her
remains were borne to the Tabernacle by her
three sons, two sons-in-law and a grandson.
	Our family were sorely stricken with grief,
but the brethren, those men of God, Prest.
McAllister, Bishops, Bro. J. G. Bleak, and
others, poured in the balm of consolation. Af-
ter singing hymn on 144th page, "Weep not,"
Bro. Bleak offerred a very touching prayer.
Bishop Cannon then arose and stated, after ask-
ing the aid of the Spirit, that he had known
Sister Bentley as long as he could remember,
and that when her husband was sent on a mis
sion in the fall of 1860, and was absent four
years, leaving her in adverse circumstances with
a family of little children, she labored faithfully
in keeping school for their support, and never
faltered, although in delicate health. She was
a woman of integrity and worthy of emulation.
	Counselor Eyring made a few remarks. Said
he was unable to give satisfaction to his feelings,
but felt to endorse what had been said by Bro.
Cannon. Made some further remarks and spoke
of the good qualities of our departed sister, and
exhorted the Saints to diligence.
	Bro. Gates then arose, and said: We had come
together as a band of Brothers and Sisters to
bid farewell to Sister Bentley, and pay our last
respects to the dead. Spoke of the principles of
the Gospel. Said our departed Sister would be
long remembered by her many friends in this
place.
	Bro. McArthur had known Sister Bentley for
the last twenty years, and was acquainted with
her good works, and that she would come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection.

[Column 2]
	Prest. McAllister made the closing remarks.
In speaking of the departed one, said he wished
to speak of her virtues. He knew her before
she came here. She was honored at the first
calling of ordinance workers to officiate in the
St. George Temple by Prest. B. Young, who
called her with others to labor for the living and
the dead. She had ever been ready to come and
to go in the faithful discharge of her duties in
the Relief Societies in this Stake of Zion and
otherwise. Her example had been most ex-
emplary. She had been faithful and had re-
ceived the promise, benefit and blessing of every
ordinance which God has revealed for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the righteous. Said he
had talked to her and knew her feelings in rela-
tion to Celestial marriage by her own testimony
to him; he knew she accepted it in her feelings.
Then quoted an address given to the Church by
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, dated Nauvoo, Sept.
6, 1842, of glorious provisions made in the Gos-
pel of Christ for the salvation and exaltation of
the dead. Exhorted the Saints to emulate the
virtues of the deceased. Prayed that the Lord
might comfort the hearts of the bereaved hus-
band and kindred.
	Singing, "God of all consolation take"—
	Benediction by Bro H. W. Platt.
	We then proceeded to the graveyard, where
the mortal remains were deposited by the side of
seven of her grandchildren who had gone be-
fore. A dedicatory prayer was offered at the in-
terment, by Bro, J. G. Bleak. By request of
Bro. Bentley, Bishop Cannon returned thanks
to the brethren and sisters for their kindness to
himself and family.		M. A. P. HYDE.


