CHRISTMAS.

	O, the merry, joyous Christmas times! the
laughter, the music of the bells, the songs we
sing, the stories we tell! How sweet to have
one day so free from pain and care, so full of
joy and gladness. 'Tis a time when we would
forget all the past, save such bright scenes as

[Column 2]
may make this day still brighter by smiling
upon us like the pleasant sunbeams.
	How eagerly, longingly we look forward to
the happy day, and how happily on Christmas
eve we mingle together to herald in the dear
and holy day with bright and joyous thoughts.
Some cling around the lighted Christmas tree,
where hang the gifts we have so long antici-
pated, and there they dance and sing for very
glee. Others seek the dance, or some like
amusement, until the silver bells chime out the
hour of midnight, then a whispered "Merry
Christmas," or "Christmas Gift," flits from ear
to ear, joined with gay laughter, joyous music,
and the patter, clatter of the flying feet, all in
time and all in tune, making a most happy
chorus.
	There are various ways of spending Christ-
mas time, but all are gay, all are happy, and
our own way, which ever it may be, is always
best, for at such a time one would scorn the
thought of discontent, envy, or any unpleasant
thoughts, and each one vies with all others in
making his Christmas the merriest.
	How immeasurably sweet on Christmas eve
to gather round the glowing hearth, and listen
to the stories told of the Christmas times of
long ago. And as we listen, it seems as though
the days must have been colder, the snow
whiter, the frost on the window panes glistened
in prettier, brighter forms, the children laughed
louder, the choirs sang sweeter, the maidens
danced prettier, the fires glowed brighter and
the heart beat lighter then than now. Yes,
grandpa, to you these things seem so, but for us
are now the Christmas days of your long ago.
After the stories are told, after the songs are
sung, off to the downy beds the little ones go,
where kind sleep touches the pillow and winds
its mantle round the little souls. Sweet sleep
is there with its hallowed angel—dreams.
	Far out in the clear blue sky the silver moon
stands forth in all her loveliness, and the bright
stars sparkle and glow and see themselves re-
flected in the crystals of the pure white snow.
The scene gleams like some enchanted fairy-
land, and as we gaze into the depths of its
mystic beauty, we ourselves become a part of
the ideal scene. From afar off appears a mag-
nificent chariot, drawn by handsome, glossy
reindeers with graceful horns and flowing
manes gliding as it were in a subdued and
tranquil sea. As it approaches nearer, down
in the recess of this magic chariot sits the ideal
king. His long white beard sweeps the floor;
his face is so full of joy and light celestial that
we fancy he is immortal. Round him are
other beings bright and happy, but not so great
—they are his pages, and they bear in their
arms, burdens cf peace and love. Swiftly they
dash over the mountains, the meadows and
plains, over the treetops and housetops they
come, and now right above us the chariot stops,
and the old and venerable king, with one of
his little messengers, looks down upon our
sleeping faces and whispers "All is well;" then
quickly the messenger lays down his burden,
and empties its contents into the row of stock-
ings, from grandma's homespun, down to little
baby's dainty one. Back to the chariot they
fly, and out again into the frosty air they ride,
to another home where little ones wait as anx-
iously as we for the good Christmas king; then
to another and another, till every little soul is
satisfied.
	The mother carefully, softly glides from

[Column 3]
couch to couch, and fondly kisses each little
dreamer, then sweetly murmurs, "all is well."
Then from the safely locked closet she brings
forth the pretty and precious things each little
heart has wished for, and gently, happily fills
each little stocking by the chimney place,
smilingly thinking of the happy faces, the
beaming smiles, the rippling laughter that will
greet her on the morrow.
	Oh, that Christmas times came oftener! but
stay, would we love them then so much? Do
we not value the diamond more for its rareness
than its brightness? If common, like dust, it
would not seem so bright; and so with Christ-
mas, and so with everything. If every day
were a merry-making, feasting time, we would
tire of it and long for quiet and loneliness, and
never half appreciate our pleasure.
	But the wisdom of a higher Being has sprin-
kled and mingled the diamonds and dust, the
light and darkness, the joy and gladness, in
such a way that all must acknowledge the
happy light of every day and the sorrowed
gloom of every night.
	But if all the year round should, through
misfortune or sorrow, be dark and sad as night,
let Christmas day be the awakening of a beau-
tiful morn, when the clouds turn their silver
lining into your darkened sky and shame the
shadows away, and reflect their delicate beauty
on your hearts, till the hearts reflect back the
light, and brighten the countenance with such
smiles as would rival the sunbeams.
