ARE WIVES SUPPORTED?

	Among the amusing paragraphs lately cir-
culated in the variety column of newspapers is
one which contains a deeper lesson than they
can ordinarily boast of. "A husband adver-
tised in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, England,
that he, Thomas A—, would no longer be
answerable for the debts incurred by his wife.
The wife retorted: 'This is to certify that I,
Elizabeth A—, am able to pay my own
debts, now that I have got shut of Tommy.'"
	This retort is a very pointed comment upon
the theory that has prevailed up to the present
day, namely, that the husband was the bread-
winner and stay of the household, and that the
subordinate members, including the wife and
children were supported by him; unprofitable
members of the community, consumers in-
stead of producers. To what degree is this
true, and to how great an extent are the wives
of all the great working classes, who form the
bone and sinew of English life, supported by
their husbands?
	The passing of the Married Women's Pro-
perty Act, which has so gloriously disting-
uished the Parliamentary session of this year,
has been the means of securing property to
the amount of many millions into the hands of
women, hitherto unjustly deprived of its con-
trol. The previous Act of 1870, now included
in the larger Act, had proclaimed the right of
a married woman to the wages which she had
earned by her own labor. No one doubts, the
justice of these two measures, or if a few speci-
mens of that nearly extinct species, the believ-
ers in the divine right of husbands, still exist,
they are dying away, and the next generation
will know them no more. But between the
women who possess inherited property, and the
women who, from the improvidence or incapa-
city of their husbands, are obliged to leave
their homes to earn wages for the support of
the family, there is the still larger class who
find occupation for their fullest energies in the
home itself, in cooking, scouring, making and
mending their husbands' and children's clothes,
and bearing, nursing, and sometimes teaching
the children. The question arises: Are these
women supported? Are they only consumers,
or a most important section of the producers
of the country's wealth? Do they do anything
to earn their own living, and, if so, how can it
be secured to them?
	A young man and woman agree to marry,
and they bring into the joint partnership, not
real or personal property, inherited or acquired,
but their heads and hands only. The man's
head and hands are occupied out of doors; he
is the visible wage-earner; he works ten or
twelve hours and brings home enough, if he
does not spend it at the public-house, to buy
necessaries for the family. Perhaps by extra
industry on his part, or extra good manage-
ment on hers, he saves and puts by money.
She, on her part, has kept a decent and com-

[Column 2]

fortable home for him, has laid out his earn-
ings for their mutual benefit, and has borne
and brought up their family of children, and,
as any one who has been in like circumstances
will acknowledge, has worked not only through
the day of twelve hours, but half the night
also. She has labored in her own vocation as
hard as he has; she has economised, contrived,
schemed, saved, giving the whole of her time
and brains to the common stock, and he has
done no more. And yet the ordinary theory is
that this woman is supported all her life, and
the law, even this law, which is incomparably
juster and more generous than any that has
hitherto been known in England, and which
we have no thought of undervaluing, gives her
no joint right to the income of the family; she
has only the right, which her husband recipro-
cally enjoys, of receiving a pauper's mainten-
ance from him.
	In many cases the unpaid partner of the do-
mestic firm does more than the household
work, though this seems a fair day's measure
for any individual's brain or hands. If they
keep a little shop, she looks after it; if a farm,
she makes the butter, fattens the fowls, or feeds
the calves. To quote again from the wisdom
of the newspaper corners: "A Western man
having lost his wife, a sympathizing friend re-
marked upon his woe-begone appearance.
'Well, I guess you would look thin, too," was
the melancholy rejoinder, 'if you had to get up
before daylight, make the fires, draw water,
split wood, and feed the cattle before breakfast.
I tell you what it is, if I don't get sombody
to fill poor, dear, sainted Maria's place, I
shall be resting by her side before many
weeks.'"
	It is notorious that in the agricultural
States of the Union, where labor is dear, the
farmers' wives take an extensive share in the 
farming operations, besides the house work.
We heard a few weeks ago of one of these
"supported" wives in Kentucky, who, after get-
ting breakfast for her husband and four chil-
dren, picked 135 pounds of cotton before
noon, came home and prepared the family din-
ner, returned to the field and picked 115
more pounds of cotton, and reached the house
again in time to cook supper. This instance
might be repeated a thousand times in Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kansas, etc. Hard as the farmer's
life is, that of the farmer's wife is confessedly
much harder. Besides her own work, she often
takes part in every agricultural operation car-
ried on at the farm. She is frequently killed
by the drudgery, and the statistics of the in-
sane asylums show that a majority of the fe-
male patients come from this overworked class,
and yet these women are "supported" and can-
not claim one shilling as their own out of the
family earnings.
	This seems to us incompatible with common
sense and common justice. During recent
years a good deal of attention has been directed
towards the injurious practice of women con-
tinuing their work in factories or workshops
after they are married. It is contended, and
with much truth, that the husband's wages are
calculated on a scale sufficient to support the
family, and that the physical and moral inter-
ests of the household will suffer if she gives her
time and strength to work which takes her
from home. There is much to be said from
this view, but there is this great difference to
the woman. She goes not only from one kind
of work to another, but from paid work to un-
paid work; from being a self-supporting laborer
she becomes "supported."
	If we could suppose, for the sake of argu-
ment, that all the married women in England
neglected or refused to fulfil their home du-
ties, as wives, mothers and mistresses of the
household, so that hired help must be engaged,
the wealthy man would be forced to supply the
place of his wife by a housekeeper and a gov-

[Column 3]

erness, the poor man to engage the insufficient
help of a charwoman to be cook, nurse, scrub-
ber, mender of clothes, etc., all in one. In
each case, wages must be paid, and the aggre-
gate sum of these wages would probably ex-
ceed not only all the earnings now gained by
married women away from their homes, but
even the earnings of the unmarried. The la-
bor of the household can only be performed
free of cost when it is performed by the wife.
Every one remembers Wilkie Collins' resume
of the question in the "Moonstone." The stew-
ard, whose cottage has been kept clean by a
working woman, marries her, and says:
	"I had another reason likewise of my own
discovering. Selina, being a single woman,
made me pay so much a week for her board
and services. Selina, being my wife, couldn't
charge for her board, and was bound to give
me her services for nothing. That was the
point of view I looked at it from. Economy—
with a dash of love. I put it to my mistress as
in duty bound, just as I had put it to myself.
'I have been turning Selina Goby over in my
mind!' I said, 'and I think, my lady, it will be
cheaper to marry her than to keep her!'"
	No one will deny that while Selina was
earning wages as housekeeper, she was a pro-
ductive member of the community; it is only
when she assumes the additional duties and re-
sponsibilities of a wife, that she becomes sup-
ported, and ceases to have a claim to remuner-
ation. Is there no method by which this in-
justice may be removed? Selina's case is of
frequent occurrence. The lady who has been
governess or school teacher, or post office clerk,
the working woman who has been a shop-hand
or domestic servant, the numerous class of
mill girls and female operatives, give up, when
they marry, a certain means of livelihood,
which, even if it has done no more than pro-
vide them with bare necessaries, was lawfully
their own, and they should have a legal claim
to some equivalent.
	As we have endeavored to point out, the
value of the work they do would be recognized
at once had it to be paid for. Some well-in-
tentioned but over-zealous reformers have sug-
gested that wives and mothers should receive
regular wages from the husbands for the work
they do. This, to our thinking, is manifestly
absurd and impossible. The work of caring
for her family, whether recognized as work or
not, is the duty which she has undertaken to
do when she married. She is morally bound
to perform it, as much as the husband is mor-
ally bound to provide her with the means of
doing it. The sacred duties of wife and mother
are such as can be measured by no debtor or
creditor account. She and her husband have
entered into a partnership, in which each con-
tributes his or her best for the good of the
firm; there can be no question of hire.
	We think, however, the law might recog-
nize the equality of the partnership more than
it does. The right of a widow to inherit after
her husband ought to be more carefully guard-
ed. If he die intestate, and there are uo chil-
dren, she should have the same right to be his
sole heir as he has to be hers. Her claim to
remain as a widow in her married home ought
to be established by law, not resting as it now
does upon family agreements, or the forbear-
ance of the eldest son. It should be impossi-
ble for a man to will the whole of his property
away from his wife. In some cases, as in the
transfer of real property, her signature should
be requisite to the document as well as his, as
is already the law in some countries; and
among the large wage-earning class, the em-
ployer should be bound to pay over to the
woman a proportion of the husband's earnings,
if it can be proved that he does not bring
home sufficient for the family support.
	Above all, the false theory that a married
woman is a hanger on, a supported member of


the commonwealth, as little children are, would
be abandoned, and the money she spends on
herself would be considered as lawfully
"earned" by herself as if it had been paid in-
to her hands by an employer who was not of
her own household.
	A few words from a thoughtful article on
"Treasurers," by Colonel Higginson, in the
Womans Journal are to the point here:
	"We are constantly told that the life-work
of a wife is as arduous and absorbing as that
of her husband. We are told that if she does
her whole duty to her family, she can have no
time to study metaphysics, or to put a slip of
paper into a ballot-box. I think it was the
conservative, Dr. Edward H. Clark, who de-
clared that the duties of the mother of a fam-
ily required as much toil of brain and body
as those of the captain of a ship. Grant it
all; grant that she work as hard as her hus-
band does. If so, the inference is irresistible
that she earns her share of the family income.
The fact that he receives the money and pays
the bills makes him the treasurer of the fami-
ly, that is all, aud he has no more right than
any other treasurer to take airs upon himself
and talk nonsense. When he pays ont money
to her, it is not as a gift, but as earnings.	*
*	*	'This was a present to me from my
wife,' said a rich man, showing an ornament.
'Bought with your money?' said a friend jo-
cosely. 'No,' he said, 'out of her own hard
earnings. She keeps house for this man of
your acquaintance.'"—Englishwoman's Review.


