DUTIES OF SAINTS.

	Those who enter into the waters of baptism
in this day, take upon themselves covenants
and obligations, enter upon duties whose mag-
nitude is appalling when viewed by mortal
eyes alone, and from an earthly standpoint. In
taking upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ
we verily and truly enter His service, enlist in
His cause, and our obligations are binding
even unto the death. But in this conflict we
depend not on the sword; famine, pestilence
and destruction are not the results of the war-
fare of the followers of Christ. The armor to
be borne in His cause is Truth, with the host of
emissaries of which are Faith, Charity, In-
tegrity, Patience, Humility, etc., weapons that
can only be obtained by pure lives and honest
hearts, and to keep them and be able to use
them rightly, requires constant diligence and
watchfulness, with mighty prayer for strength
and wisdom. Jesus came to redeem the world
from the Fall, to atone for the sins of
mankind, and open the way for their return
back to the Father, and to establish on earth
the principles of the Gospel; yet, according to
His own words, "the foxes have holes, the birds
of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath
not where to lay His head;" so that His king-
dom had not then come.
	After His crucifixion, His followers carried
on the work He had begun, establishing


churches in various lands. and striving to per-
fect the Saints in the principles of Truth, in
the face of fearful persecution and opposition,
and their labors were great and their efforts
noble to preserve on earth the Gospel of their
Master. But its doctrines and ordinances were
changed and perverted by men, until the true
plan of salvation was lost on earth, and confu-
sion, doubt and uncertainty have reigned for
many hundred years.
	Now again the Father and the Son have
spoken, the word has gone forth for the fulfill-
ment of all prophecy that has been uttered
concerning this world. Not only is the true
Church to be established, but God's Kingdom
is to be built up and sustained, for it is no
more to be thrown down, nor taken from the
earth.
	The Gospel has to be preached to every na-
tion, kindred, tongue and people, and His
children to be gathered from whithersoever
they have been scattered. Think of it,Saints!
and ask yourselves if you have any time to
waste in folly and things that amount to
nought.
	The veterans who commenced this great
work of the latter days have labored nobly
and faithfully, but they are passing away from
earth, one by one, to rest for a season, and the
vacancies must be filled—the work must not
slacken nor cease, until it is completed, and
the Kingdom ready for its King, the Saints
gathered, perfected and prepared to meet Him.
										H.


