EDITOR EXPONENT:
	You asked me to write something for the Ex-
ponent, but I laconically said "I pass"—yet my
mind seems full, "pressed down, and running
over" with a heterogeneous mass—something re-
sembling that which we behold in the kalaide-
scope, needing a hand to turn it to that focus
that produces form and order, and hence beauty;
but an inertia, or will power, is wanting, or
something, I hardly know what name to give it,
to produce a palpable and beautiful figure, and
so I declined to write. But sitting alone with
my own thoughts this evening, and thinking
upon the refusal I had given you (not unkindly,
but simply, honestly), my mind ran out upon
the conviction of what a mysterious, marvelous
construction the human mind is! I can say
with Sterne, in his abrupt but beautiful way, "I
know that I have a soul! nor can any writer,
however metaphysical or ingenious he may be,
convince me to the contrary." Most true! there
is the voice of my spirit, with whom I hold an
eternal communion—yes, we two beings hold
marvelous spiritual intercourse! the spirit takes
the Rostrum, the earthly the Auditorium.
Hours pass, days and years have passed, but the
interviewing never "breaks up," except in sleep,
and even in the land of dreams it sometimes goes
on. It speaks in whisperings, not heard by the
natural ear, and in a language not of letters, and
of syllables, but as an intuition, a something
heard and comprehended without articulation or
palpable demonstration; in this way my mind is
at the present time full, but it needs to be SIM-
MERED down into a tangible form,and this process
takes away much that is beautiful.
	We poets know well that our most glorious
visions will not live again, even upon the most
gifted lyre, but some have the faculty to make
tangible much more than others; but it will re-
quire the harp of the Seraph to improvise the
heart songs and aspirations of the Saints of God!
This spirit of mine, whose Father is God, whis-


pers much to me that my understanding does
not grasp; it sheds a revivifying, elevating in-
fluence around and about me, but I cannot re-
duce it to a language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language suitable, but oh! how unworthy of
it! Well I know this capability must be for the
grand future, the great beyond; but all this gives
an assurance of the infinite nature which at
present, for the want of a more appropriate
name, we call human. As I write, my mind
seems to open upon the infinitude of the mighti-
ness of this immortal mind, which has been
often laid open to the world, and millions have
bent before the grand display, and been elevated
and invigorated by the same; and the whole
earth itself has been enlightened as with the
electric light of heaven, for it was all an emana-
tion from the eternal fountain, and an echo of
that breathing voice that said, "Let there be
light!" And these glorious minds, in their
transit over this earth, have left a train of light,
like the flashing meteor, leaving the eye as it
were dazzled with their lustre.
	Who dares to say mind and spirit die and are
extinct? Rather say their immortality began
on earth and gave ample assurance that it is
"eternal in the heavens."
	Good night, dear. May choirs of angels sing
you to your rest.
				Your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 11.


[Column 1]
