BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from a letter written me by
my father in fulfilment of promise:
			"WASHINGTON, June 9, 1844.
	"MY DEAR DAUGHTER—I told you of the
blessings that we have received from our
Father which is in Heaven, so be obedient to
the counsel you have given to you from your
dear father and mother, who seek your welfare
both for time and eternity. There is no one
that feels as we do for you. Prove yourself
approved of God and man, as a true, undeviat-
ing friend through evil report as well as good,
through poverty as well as riches. This has
been the spirit I have endeavored to maintain
since I have been a member in the Church of
Christ. I want my children to be true and
faithful in all things, and never swerve from
the truth in any case. If you should be
tempted, or have feelings in your heart, tell
them to no one but your father and mother;
if you do, you will be betrayed and exposed to
your hurt. Remember, my dear child, what I
tell you, for you will find that I tell you the
truth in Christ and lie not. You are blessed,
but you know it not. You have done that which
will be for your everlasting good for this world
and that which is to come. I will admit there
is not much pleasure in this world. Our cir-
cumstances are such that I see no way for it at
present. Congress will not do anything for us,
no nothing; neither do I care whether they do
or not; but we will tease them all the day long.
They think they have got a great deal of power,
and all of this World is theirs to give or retain.
The devil thought he had all at his command
when he wanted to hire Jesus to worship him,


[Column 1]
He had violated all rights or claims—so has
Congress. We will go where we can find a
home, and worship God in His own way, and
enjoy our rights as free citizens; and this will
not be long. Now, my daughter, I have spok-
en plainly to you, more so than I ever did be-
fore. Be wise, and you shall prosper in all
things, and you shall lack for nothing that is
good. Be true to the covenants that you have
made, keep the compant ef those who are
wise and keep close mouths. Solomon says,
"A wise head keeps a close mouths."	*	*	*
Do not slight your friends, be kind, be merci-
ful, be gentle, be sober, and show yourself ap-
proved of God and of your friends. Be kind
to your dear mother, take burthens off from
her shoulders; be mild and pleasant to all.
This is the way to get the good will even of a
dog, for every spirit will beget its own likeness.
	"Now, Helen, let me tell you one thing that
I want you to do; take one of my large blank
books and commence your life back as far as
you can, and when I write my general history
I can put yours in with it. I want William to
do the same. Do not forget this—then you
can put all the letters that I write you in their
proper places, to be handed down to our chil-
dren for them to read.	*	*	*
	"It will be three weeks to-morrow since I
left my sweet home. O sweet home! it is a
heaven to me.
	"The Capitol stands on an eminence, like
our Temple. This building is a great deal
larger than our Temple will be. The stone of
which it is built is a little whiter color than
that of the Temple. It is surrounded with a
large park, decorated with trees of all kinds
and flowers, with several pools of pure water,
with fish in them. It looks like a paradise in
point of decoration. O that we had such a
place! we will when we build up a sure place.
I want to see onr Prophet here in the chair of
state—then we would come to see him.
	Elder Hyde came here on Saturday, and we
held a meeting yesterday. Elder Wight and
myself preached, and it left a good impression
on their minds. I think we shall leave here
to-morrow for Delaware, and hold a Conference.
If you can get the means, come with your
mother, but do nothing to hinder her coming;
you shall have your chance in turn. Be wise,
and when you get this do not fail to write me
and direct to the city of New York. Be a
good girl; May the Lord bless you and your
dear mother and brethren. As ever your af-
fectionate father,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL.
	A letter commenced by my mother June 9,
(the same day that father wrote the above,)
describes the scenes that were transpiring in
Nauvoo. She says:
	"Nauvoo was never so lonesome since we
lived here as it is now. I went to meeting last
Sunday for the first time since Conference. I
should have turned and come home on foot if
I had not been afraid it would make me sick.
Neither Joseph, Hyrum, nor any of the Twelve
were there, and you may be assured that I was
glad when meeting was over. Brother Joseph
Nobles is very kind to me; knowing that I am
not able to walk, he has invited me to ride with
his folks several times. Yesterday he took his
wife and me down to Hibbard's after cherries.
He took us to see Sarah (my father's wife),
who has been quite sick. I urged her to come
home with me, but she said she would rather
wait till she felt better; I expect her this week.
	"The weather continues cold and wet.
Bishop Whitney called in to-day; said he'd
been talking with Dr. Bernhisel—he thought
the quorum had better meet and pray for the
rain to be stayed, or we would all be sick.
	"June 11th. Nauvoo was a scene of ex-
citement last night. Some hundreds of the
brethren turned out and burned the printing
press of the opposite party. This was done by

[Column 2]
order of the City Council. They had only
published one paper (Nauvoo Expositor) which
is considered a public nuisance. They have
sworn vengeance, and no doubt they will
have it.
							"June 24th.
	"My Dear Husband.—Since I commenced
this letter varied and exciting indeed have
been the scenes in this city. I would have
sent this to you before this time, but I have
been thrown into such confusion I know not
what to write. Nor is this all; the mails do
not come regularly, having been stopped by
high water or the flood of mobocracy which
pervades the country. I have received no let-
ter by mail from you since you left. I know
your anxiety to hear from us must be very
great, as you will no doubt hear of our trouble
by report. Nothing is to be heard of but
mobs collecting on every side. The Laws and
Fosters and most of the dissenting party, with
their families, left here a day or two since. They
are sworn to have Joseph and the City Coun-
cil, or to exterminate us all. Between three
and four thousand brethren have been under
arms here the past week, expecting every day
the mob would come upon us. The brethren
from the country are coming in to aid in the
defense of our city. Brother Joseph sent a
message to the Governor, signifying if he and
his staff would come into the city he would
abide their decision; but instead of the Gover-
nor coming here, he went to Carthage, and
there walked arm in arm with Law and Foster,
until we have reason to fear he has caught
their spirit. He sent thirty men here day be-
fore yesterday to arrest Brother Joseph, with
an abusive letter, saying, if thirty men cannot
do the business thousands can, ordering the
brethren who had been ordered out to defend
the city against the mob to deliver up their
arms to their men and then disperse. Yester-
day morning (although it was Sunday) was a
time of great excitement. Joseph had fled
and left word for the brethren to hang on to
their arms and defend themselves as best they
could. Some were dreadfully tried in their
faith to think Joseph should leave them in the
hour of danger. Hundreds have left the city,
most of the merchants on the hill have left.
I have not felt frightened, neither has my
heart sunk within me till yesterday, when I
heard Joseph had sent word back for his family
to follow him, and Brother Whitney's family
were packing up, not knowing but they would
have to go, as he is one of the City Council.
For a while I felt sad enough, but did not let
anybody know it, neither did I shed any tears.
I felt a confidence in the Lord that He would
preserve us from the ravages of our enemies.
We expected them here to-day by the thou-
sands, but before night yesterday things put on
a different aspect—Joseph returned and gave
himself up for trial. He sent a messenger to
Carthage to tell the Governor he would meet
him and his staff at the big mound at eight
o'clock this morning, with all that the writ de-
manded. They have just passed here to meet
the Governor for that purpose. My heart said,
Lord, bless those dear men and preserve them
from those that thirst for their blood. What
will be their fate the Lord only knows, but I
trust He'll spare them. The Governor wrote
that if they did not give themselves up, our city
was suspended upon so many kegs of powder,
and it needed only one spark to touch them off.
If you were here you would be sure to be in
their midst, which would increase my anxiety.
	"Now, I must tell you the fluctuation of my
mind about going to meet you. Brother
Adams told me a week ago that he, having
been detained so long here, had concluded to
take his wife with him; said if Helen and I
would go with them he would agree to take us
to you; he had no money, but he was ac-
quainted with the captains of the different

[Column 3]
boats, and could go to Cincinnatti without
money—there he could get what he wanted.
He calculated then to be here last Friday and
stay till to-morrow, when we were to start on
the Ospry. I saw no prospect of going unless
I took up with his ofier. I asked counsel of
Bishop Whitney and others; they all advised
me to go, so I went to making ready with all
possible speed. But it was only three days be-
fore I heard they were going to write for all
the Twelve to come immediately home: I saw
Joseph passing by, and went out and asked
him if it was so. He said, yes; there was a
prospect of trouble, and said you were wanted
here, and you would want to be here. He also
said you had promised to return immediately
and fetch him some money. I felt so disap-
pointed that I could not help shedding a few
tears over it. Brother Willard Richards soon
came along and told me to cheer up, that he
did not apprehend any danger; said, "hold on
a few days, we shall not write quite yet at any
rate." So I took courage again, only to meet
another disappointment. He called Friday
and told me he had just dispatched a messen-
ger with letters to all the Twelve to come im-
mediately and fetch all the force with them
that they could raise. This messenger was to
take the first boat and go to St. Louis before
he mailed them, as it is of no use to mail them
here. I knew nothing to the contrary till
Saturday evening, when Brother Adams told
me that all was counteracted and they had con-
cluded not to send for you, and said—"Perhaps
we shall go yet." That is the last that I've seen
of him. He preached here yesterday and
started for home last evening. I understand
he has been appointed for another mission. So
I see no prospect of going East at present.	*	*
I can only say, may the Lord God bless and
preserve us all to meet again. I believe He
will. The children all send love and good
wishes to their dear father. Justin Johnson
will take this over the river and mail it for me,
so I will bid you farewell.
						VILATE KIMBALL."
To be Continued.


