HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL Conference palled by the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall Tuesday and Wednesday,
Dec. 12 and 13, meetings commencing at 10
o'clock a. m. and 2 and 7 p. m. each day. Much
excellent instruction has been given, especially
to the Priesthood and to Bishops and those who
preside in the several Wards, prest. John Tay-
lor, Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest A. M. Can-
non, Counselor D. H. Wells and other leading
men have addressed the people. Most of the
Bishops made verbal reports of their respective
Wards.

	TO-DAY the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Council House
in this city.

	THE ladies' "Unity Club" are busy preparing
for their entertainment which will be held soon,
although the date of the event has been changed
to January. It will consist of tableaux, music
and recitations, by members of the Club. Miss
Ada Dwyer, the talented elocutionist, will ap-
pear in the "role" Miss Priscilla Jennings, Miss
Agnes Olsen and Miss Louie Wells will sing;
Mrs. Cummings (Della Clawson), a great favor-
ite of the Salt Lake Theatre lovers, will take
part in the programme, and others, well known
as talented young ladies. As the entertainment
is known to be for a charitable purpose, we trust
it will receive the patronage which will make
it a financial success as we feel sure, from the ex-
ecutive ability of the committee of arrange-
ments, it certainly will be in point of merit.

	THE city presents quite a festive appearance
in anticipation of Christmas, and each shop
seems to vie with the neigboring ones in en-
ticing Santa Claus to purchase from their stock,
Christmas trees are coming in daily and already


some are being decorated for the little people.
Shop windows are making a fine display of staple
products for the joy and comfort of man, as well
as toys and all manner of gift articles for the
little people. The milliners’ shops have the
prettiest feathers and ribbons, the most elegant
bonnets and hats for ladies and children.

	SAVAGE'S Art Gallery has a large show win-
dow devoted entirely to dolls of all sizes and
kinds and prices, and there are also many other
handsome articles that are useful as well as or-
namental, too numerous to mention. Pictures
of every conceivable variety suitable for the
cottage or the palatial mansion. Toilet goods of
choice kinds and good quality, stationery in
abundance, and an excellent assortment of
books, writing desks, work boxes, plaques and
materials for painting of all kinds.

	THE book store of Mr. James Dwyer presents
a very fine appearance. It is almost impossible
to mention any article in his line of goods that
the store is not supplied with, of the best quali-
ty too. His illustrated books of poems, bound
in the newest style and of expensive material,
are elegant, and fit to adorn any drawing room
and interest and entertain the most fastidious
people. Single books and sets of books and his-
tories of all countries, the best books by the best
authors, can all be purchased at Dwyer’s. Work
boxes and writing desks, reticules and satchels,
money purses, and diaries, and in fact every-
thing of this kind that can be purchased in the
large cities. He keeps the largest assortment of
toys in the city. School books and stationery
add to his immense stock of holiday goods.


