MEN AND WOMEN.
	“In every time and every nation the hearth
of home is in the care of the women. And if
ever a nation shall deserve to present to the
world a new and higher phase of home life, it
must be that people in which woman is treated
with the highest regard and true chivalry—
where she is permitted to become all that na-
ture intended her to be. We believe in Eu-
rope that this people is to be found in the
United States of America.”—So says Miss
Bremer.
	As far as exemption from the hard work of
“subduing the earth,” (which God has ex-
pressly laid on men) the women of America
are freed from all oppressive toils; and their
homes are made more comfortable and pleasant
than those of any other women. There is not
now, nor has there ever been, a nation where
the men were so careful to provide for their
families, and devoted such thought and skill
for domestic appliances intended to lighten the
tasks of women; and the love and liberality
of fathers and husbands are apparent in the
comforts and luxuries of home life, and in the
personal appearance of their wives and daugh-
ters. All this is well done; but is not some-
thing more needed before that shining phase
of home-life within our Republic should as-
sume, can be fully displayed?
	Greatness is most perfect when it acts with
the least reference to self; power is most effi-
cient when moving the will through the heart.
Let us American ladies cultivate the virtues,
the knowledge, the accomplishments, which will
influence, imbue and aid men to do the work
of the world to the glory of God; then the
woman will truly shine forth .as “the glory of
the man.”
	I would allude to the precepts of Christ as
the foundation rules of conduct and character,
when we seek to refine and dignify human na-
ture. And now, when the year has come full
circle, and we are at its close, this Gospel eti-
quette of love and duty comes before us as the
perfect pattern of that home life and social
improvement which the men and women of
America are, as we all hope, destined “to pre-
sent to the world.”


The real worth and glory of American in-
stitutions can never be understood nor appre-
ciated until we, as a people, teach, by our ex-
ample that Jesus Christ, in making men "free,"
subjected them to His truth.
