FOR NURSES.

	Under the title of "A New Profession for
Women," the Century for November has an
excellent article on the "Bellevue training
School for Nurses." As the paper is too
lengthy for our space, and loses much force
without the illustrations, we compile a few
facts of interest to our readers:
	Bellevue Hospital of New York needed a
reform in its system of nursing. This truth,
brought to the attention of the "Local Visit-
ing Committee of New York State Charities'
Aid Association, a committee composed of six-
ty members, chiefly ladies of high social posi-
tion and intelligence," resulted in the convic-
tion "that no improvement could be hoped for
in the management of the hospital until a com-
plete reform of the nursing should be effected,
and, inspired by the example and success of
similar work in England by Florence Night-
ingale, the founder of the modern system of
nursing, they set themselves to this task with
resolution, tact and intelligence." The obsta-
cles were many, but the "managers were only
thereby the more firmly convinced of the ne-
cessity of patient and persistent effort." "The
first step was to learn how to organize the
school in the best way, and for this end Dr. W.
Gill Wylie, of New York, volunteered to go to
Europe, at his own expense, to study the for-
eign systems. Upon his return, he brought a
cordial letter from Miss Nightingale, in which
she set forth the principles upon which the
management of the school has been based."
	"Voluntary subscriptions were called for and
made to the amount of $23,000, and a house
was rented near the hospital, in which the

[Column 2]
nurses should lodge and board." "At first, but
six pupils were obtained." The applicants
were required to have: "Good education, strong
constitution, freedom from physical defects,
including those of sight and hearing, and un-
exceptionable references. The course of train-
ing consists in dressing wounds, applying fo-
mentations, bathing and care of helpless pa-
tients, making beds, and managing positions.
Then follow the preparation and application of
bandages, making rollers and linings of splints.
The nurse must also learn how to prepare,
cook and serve delicacies for the invalid. In-
struction is given in the best practical meth-
ods of supplying fresh air, and of warming
and ventilating the sick-room. In order to re-
main through the two years' course and obtain
a diploma, still more is required, viz.: Exem-
plary deportment, patience, industry and obe-
dience."
	"The Nurses' Home," the headquarters of
the school, a large and handsome building,was
erected for the purpose and given to the school
by Mrs. W. H. Osborne." "Besides studying
from text books and attending a systematic
course of lectures, the pupils are occupied in
the care of the patients in the hospital."
	"The nurses at the Bellevue school may be
divided into two classes: those who study the
art of nursing with a view to gaining a liveli-
hood or supporting their families, and those
who look forward to a life of usefulness among
the poor sick. All are lodged and boarded
free of charge during the two years' course."
"During the nine years of its existence, 149
pupils have received diplomas, 78 of whom
are now practicing in New York City."
	Graduates have been called to be superin-
tendents of many institutions, and the demand
for trained nurses in private families is now
greater than the supply.
	There is no computing the good done by
these noble women who devised this scheme,
nor the good now being accomplished by the
scores of trained nurses and teachers this
school has sent out. They are the allies of the
physician, and none the less important. As
prepared for earning their living, they com-
mand good wages. As devoting their lives to
the care of the poor, no missionary to foreign
lands finds his labor more needed, or blessed of
the Master.—Gleaner, in Woman at Work.


