R S., Y. L. M. I. AAND PRIMARY
	REPORTS.
MESA CITY.
	A brief report of the quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, which was held at Mesa,
Sept. 30, commencing at 10 a.m.
	Present on the stand: The officers of the
Mesa and Jonesville Relief Societies; also
President MacDonald and some others of the
brethren; President Phelps presiding.
	Meeting opened in the usual manner with
singing and prayer. After which the minutes
of the previous June Conference were read and
accepted.
	President Phelps requested Bro. MacDonald
to address the meeting. He excused himself
for the present, wishing to hear from the sis-
ters first, after which he would respond. The
following sisters arose and made encouring re-
marks and bore faithful testimonies: Susan-
nah Brady, Lizzie MacDonald, Biggs, Hibbard,
Jones, Savage, Harper, Longmore, Steele,
Elizabeth MacDonald, Fanny MacDonald,
and Hannah Peterson.
	President Phelps felt indignant when she
read in the papers of the course our enemies
were taking to bring trouble upon our people
in Utah, but said our trust is in God. All we
have to fear is ourselves; let us be faithful to
our duties and all will be right.
	Bro. David Savage then made some very en-
couraging and instructive remarks.
	President MacDonald gave some very good
instructions. The principles we have embraced
are dear to our hearts, and it is the duty of
mothers to instil these principles into the
minds of their children, that they may escape
the evil influences that are striving to over-
throw the work of God on the earth. Pray for
each other, be charitable and kind, overlook-
ing each other’s failings, and let us live above
the evil influence that surrounds us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon meeting. Usual opening-exer-
cises.
	Bro. David  Savage occupied a portion of
the afternoon in a very interesting manner; re-
ferred to some of the prophecies of Isaiah;
thought that a great many of them were about
to be fulfilled. Said the first steps towards
apostacy consisted in finding fault with the
Priesthood. Said, sisters, if you see your hus-
bands giving way to this spirit, it is your duty
to rebuke them; avoid a fault-finding and
slanderous spirit, for it leads to great evil;
teach your children faith in God. Referred to
the great faith of the army of Helaman, who
were taught the principle of faith by their
mothers, that not one of them were slain in the
great battle with the Lamanites. Closed by
praying that the spirit and power of Elijah’s
God might rest upon the sisters.
	President MacDonald occupied the remain-
der of the afternoon in a very instructive dis-
course, on the many and varions duties per-
taining to our society. Spoke of the import-
ance of making covenants, and when we raise
our hands to sustain a person in any office in
the Church, said there is a power goes with it
more than we have any idea of. Visit the sis-
ters who are not with you, and encourage
them to come to meeting. Let the young sis-
ters join with you until they can be organized
in a society of their own. Spoke of the beau-
ties of union and co-operation, when carried
out to the fullest extent. Said some of the
prophecies were about to be fulfilled concern-
ing the test that was to come to this people,
when we have got to show our true colors and
show who and what we are, whether for God
or not. Exhorted us to seek the spirit of rev-
elation and use wisdom in all our acts. Said
some were poor in clothing, but rich in faith,
while others were rich in clothing but poor in
faith. Felt to invoke the blessing of God upon
all those who were striving to perform the du-
ties of their calling.
	It was moved and seconded that Sister Eliz-
abeth G. MacDonald be appointed to preside
over the Relief Societies in this district; car-
ried unanimously. The officers of the several
societies were also unanimously sustained by
the Conference.
	After some business was transacted, the
Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing. Benediction.
		Sabah M. Pomeboy,
			Secretary pro tem,
[line break]
ORANGEVILLE, EMEBY COUNTY.
Dear Sister.—I am pleased to inform you
that we have a Relief Society here in the
Orangeville Ward, organized August 27th,
1882. Caroline Curtis, president; Sarah Ann
Fullmer and Ellen Robertson, counselors; Jo-
anna P. Curtis, secretary; Elizabeth Reid,
treasurer, and all the necessary officers be-
longing to the society. We are feeling well in
the good work, and hope to improve. We
pray for the welfare of Zion and all our sisters
in this glorious cause.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
				JOANNA P. CURTIS,
						Secretary.
				____
			NEW ZEALAND.
	Report of the Canterbury, New Zealand,
Relief Society of the Church-of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	The Relief Society was organized at Christ-
church, on the 26th of December, 1879, by
Elders Shreeve and P. J. Nordstrand; Sister
James set apart president and Sisters Larsen
and Doak first and second counselors. In
consequence of the President gathering home
to Zion, the society was reorganized, and now
consists of officers as follows: Johanna Larsen,
President; Olina Nordstrand first and Emma
Rogers second counselors; Louisa Porter, sec-
retary; Louise Rogers, treasurer. Total num-
ber of members, 13. The sisters here live in
a very scattered condition, and consequently
the attendance is not as regular as could be
desired, though tolerably good considering the
many disadvantages they have to contend
with. The meetings are held on the last Mon-
day of each month. Up to Sept. 5, 1881, the
meetings were held on the first Monday of the
month, but the change was made to suit the
convenience of one of the sisters who lives 18
miles from the place of holding meeting, who
could not otherwise attend.
	The sisters are united and attend to their
duties; they meet and encourage each other,
and advise for the best; each breathe a kind,
charitable feeling and manifest a desire to as-
sist in rolling on the work of God.
	There is a society fund, to which the mem-
bers contribute as their circumstances will al-
low; this enables us to assist those who are in
need of pecuniary aid.
	We desire to emulate our sisters at home in
their labors of love, and ask them to remember
us in their meetings and give us their faith and
prayers.
	The contributions to the society to date
amount to [english pound]2 5s., of this amount [english pound]1 13s. has
been appropriated to aid missionaries and the


needy in our midst, leaving a balance on hand
of 12s.
	We desire to express our appreciation of the
instructions given by the brethren who have
visited our meetings. Their timely counsels
and explanation of our duties has made plain
the road which leads to eternal bliss, and ena-
bled us at times by the eye of faith to obtain
a glimpse of woman's lot in the great plan of
salvation.
	THE EXPONENT has also assisted us greatly
in our studies, its welcome pages being always
replete with good instruction and wise sugges-
tions. We do cheerfully recommend it to all
and invite a careful perusal of its pages.
		LOUISA PORTER, Secretary.
		JOHANNA LARSEN, President.
	Christchurch, Oct. 22, 1882.


