NOTES AND NEWS.

	Thinking is the talking of the soul with it-
self.—Plato.

	Character is higher than intellect. A great
soul will be strong to live as well as strong to
think.—Emerson.

	Miss Jennie-Turner has been appointed no-
tary public, in New York, by Governor Cor-
nell. This is the first instance of the appoint-
ment of a woman in that State.

	Miss Lydia Becker was re-elected for the
fifth time to the Manchester (Eng.) School
Board. She was second on a poll counting
27,368 votes.

	Florence Nightingale, who may be called
the originator of trained nursing, says, "There
is no such thing as amateur art, there is no
such thing as amateur nursing."

	Lady Brassey, whose yachting experiences
have been told so charmingly, is to have a
yacht built at Cowes, which will be modelled
after a viking's ship now in the Christiana
Museum.

	Miss Mathilde Blind's "George Eliot" will
give for the first time a faithful account of
George Eliot's early life, and many details of
her unknown literary labor, with much new
and interesting correspondence,

	The summer house of Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps is on a point of the sea-shore a little
east of Gloucester. She lives there with her
companion and her pet dog during the warm
weather, as remote as possible from noise.

	Things which never could have made a man
happy develop a power to make him strong.
Strength and not happiness, or rather only that
happiness which comes by strength, is the end
of human living. And with that test and
standard the best order and beauty reappear.
—Phillips Brooks.

	Miss Rachel G. Foster, the efficient Secre-
tary of the N. W. S. A., has returned to her
home in Philadelphia. Miss Foster has won
hosts of friends during her sojourn in the
West, and is conceded to be a "graceful, lovely
young lady," notwithstanding the great execu-
tive ability displayed in her public work.
Would there were more such young women as
Miss Foster in the world.

	In a little red cottage on the shore of a
lake called the Bowl, near Lenox, Mass.,
Hawthorne wrote "The House of Seven Ga-
bles." Mr. J. T. Fields used to tell of carry-
ing out to him there one hundred dollars in ad-
vance of work, but after accepting, Haw-
thorne's sensitiveness found the obligation
irksome, and he handed it back. "Take it,
Fields," said he, "the house isn't big enough
to hold it."

	The New York Court of Appeals reversed
a decision of the Supreme Court which held
that a woman may have action against her hus-
band for beating her. It had before been the
recognized rule that a married woman might
sue any man for assault and battery except
her husband, but that to give her the right to
appeal to the courts against his brutality would
be "contrary to the policy of the law, and des-
tructive of that conjugal union and tranquility
which it had always been the object of the

[Column 2]
law to guard and protect." The Supreme
court of New York in general term refused to
hold to this inhuman and obsolete principle of
the old common law, but now the New York
Court of Appeals has overruled this humane
decision. We hope Vermont will adopt Sena-
tor Ide's bill, and release women from the old
feudal law of slavery to the husband.—Ex.


