UTAH'S DELEGATE.

[From the Congressional Record, Dec. 5.]

	"The petition of the undersigned respectfully
shows: that he is the delegate elected for the
Territory of Utah for the Forty-eighth Con-
gress.

	"That at the last session of the present Con-
gress the seat of Delegate for said Territory to
the Forty-seventh Congress was declared vacant,
and the people of said Territory are now unrep-
resented.

	Prior to the election held on the first Monday
in November, 1882, the Governor of said Terri-
tory was requested to call an election, to elect a
Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress, but refused
on the ground that he had no power in that re-
spect.

	A like request was made to the commissioners
of elections for said Territory appointed by the
President of the United States, under what is
known as the Edmunds bill, and they refused
on the same ground.

	At the election held November 7,1882, to elect
a Delegate to the Forty-eighth Congress, your
petitioner received 15,490 votes for the office of
Delegate for the unexpired term of the Forty-
seventh Congress, and to fill the vacancy exist-
ing in said office.

	The commissioners of elections for said Terri-
tory, as will appear from a copy of their instruc-
tions annexed, refused to canvass or allow said
notes to be officially canvassed or an official re-
turn thereof made, on the ground that their
power did not extend to that subject.

	The number of votes so cast and the fact that
the voting for Delegate to fill that vacancy was
quite general throughout the Territory, will ap-
pear from the affidavits of precinct judges of
elections, and a summary thereof hereto an-
nexed.

	Inasmuch as the people of said Territory are
entitled to representation in your honorable
body, and under the construction of the law by
the governor and commissioners there seems to
be no way provided for calling such an election,
your petitioner submits that the voluntary and
general expression of the will of the people
through the ballot-box is the best and only ob-
tainable manner of filling said vacancy, and re-
quests that he may be declared entitled to a seat
as Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress."

	Washington. 13.—Members of ihe House elec-
tions committee, who have examined the me-
morial presented to Congress against the seating
of Caine, the delegate elected from Utah to suc-
ceed Cannon, say that it involves a nice legal
question, and one which will excite almost end-
less discussion when the matter comes before the
House. The election was held without any pre-
vious proclamation by the Governor of the Ter-
ritory, and the question involved is as to the
right of the people of the Territory to hold an
election under such circumstances.


