CHRISTMAS IS COMING.

	ONE of the most satisfactory days in all the
year is Christmas, when everybody tries to bless
everybody else, and especially the poor or un-
fortunate, and to bring smiles and happiness in-
to every heart and home. A fitting tribute to
the memory of the blessed Redeemer is to do
some of the works He spent his life in doing;
blessing mankind, ministering to the suffering,
alleviating sorrow; promoting peace and follow-
ing his perfect example. Carrying out for one
day in the year at least the precept "Do unto others
as ye would they should do to you." And in
this way are treasures laid up in heaven; which
is another precept of the same great Teacher.
Many little children think of Christmas only as
a gala day, on which they are to have every-
thing that is good to eat (and lots of things that
are not good for them) and everything done for
their pleasure; and very often forget to do any
one good thing for any other person. Little
children should be taught that on that day par-
ticularly it is proper,and indeed a duty to minister
in some way to those who are not so highly
favored as themselves. To make some little
sacrifice for another's good. To divide something
with another child, or aged person. A very pro-
per thing to teach children to do is that of help-
ing to bring sunshine into the life of those who
have lived on into "the sere and yellow leaf,"
and need the warmth of young lives to quicken
their pulses temporarily. If more attention
was given to this matter it would be a source of
great happiness to the aged. Many of them
have not grandchildren of their own crowding
around their homes to wait upon and caress
them, and they need tenderness and loving care
for are they not feeble and weak, and many
years and much trial has made them weary.
	Encourage the children to show them favor as
well as respect, and see that some tangible kind-
ness is bestowed by the young and beautiful.
One of the most elevating traits of human char-
acter is the reverence for age; above all chil-
dren in the world the children of Zion should be
instructed in this pleasant duty. The associa-
tion of little children is specially delightful to
people far advanced in years, not to weary them
with noise and confusion, but a little gaiety and
mirthfulness is like an elixir to their drooping
spirits. Christmas is the very time to perform
noble deeds, and mingled with festivity and
song and the bounties of earth, will be the hap-
py feeling that comes from blessing others.
Keeping Christmas is a grand custom, and one
which should be continued, but it ought not to be
a strain upon the family for weeks before hand
to contrive how to economize sufficiently to
make expensive presents. This in the present
day seems to be carried to the extreme. Moder-
ation in all things is wiser than excess, and hap-
piness is not heightened so much by extrava-
gant luxuries and presents, as in that which pro-


motes peace and contentment. Solomon says,
"A contented mind is a continual feast." Peace
and good will were the tidings brought when
Christ was born, and these to all mankind. On
Christmas day reach out the olive branch, bury
all old grievances and feuds and begin anew,
ready to make a better record for another year.
	A merry Christmas and a happy one to alI
our friends, in every iand and clime, at home
and abroad, the Exponent bear the message
over land and sea, and into many sunny homes.


