			SARAH STAKER, Sec.


[Column 1]
	Margaret Morris Mathews, wife of Hopkin Mathews
of Providence, was born on the 26th of August, 1821, in
the town of Pontycats, Caermarthanshire, South Wales.
April 3d, 1844, she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the first female in the
valley of Aberdare, Glanmorganshire, which principles
sustained her in life, and made her hopeful in death. She
emigrated in the year 1856 with her husband and five
little children; crossed the sea in the "Escurling;" over
the plains in Edward Buuker's handcart company; made
her home in Ogden City, in the spring of 1859, she
moved to Providence, in Cache Valley, with her husband
and family, being one of the first settlers in this place.
Whether we regard Sister Mathews as a wife, a mother,
a friend or a Latter-day Saint, we shall find her promi-
nent among her sex. As a wife, she was the helpmate
and couselor of her husband in sickness, poverty and
distress. Her advice was never disregarded, for it ema-
nated from a mind wise and thoughtful to a high degree.
As a mother, she was kind and solicitous to a fault; few
women have been so blessed in their children; she was
the mother of thirteen children, four sons and nine
daughters, and grandmother to thirty-one children, all
of whom gathered about her bed in her last sickness;
only three out of her family of children have gone be-
fore her. As a friend, she will be forever remembered by
those who have experienced her sympathy and kindness;
she had words of hope for the downcast, elevation for
the afflicted, and a benevolent heart that was always
seeking out objects of charity; her memory will live
long in Providence; she was, indeed, its mother. As a
Latter-day Saint, Sister Mathews was a shining exam-
ple of meekness, simplicity and virtue. In all of her
hours of trial, sickness and poverty, and she had many
such during the early years of her life, she was sustained
by an unfaltering trust that illuminated her spirit, even
in death ever ready to do good day and night, and al-
ways willing to be useful. It could be said of her as
was said of one of old, she touched nothing that she did
not adorn. The 4th of November, she was at Logan, in
Conference, when she was struck with paralysis in her
right side; she was taken home by Brother Mathews; her
family gathered around, also many of the sisters and
brethren to administer to her wants. She was quick and
sensitive to the very last. Twenty minutes to 11 o'clock
p.m., Nov. 14th, she breathed her last. She was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Providence, which position
she held for nearly thirteen years, and which duty she
performed faithful and true. The corpse was carried to
the meetinghouse by her sons, grandsons and sons-in-
law; next, the relatives, and then the teachers of the
Relief Society, two and two. The speakers on this occa-
sion were Frederic Theurer, Wm. Smith, John F. Maddi-
son, Chas. B. Robbin and W. W. Low. They gave some
very instructive counsel on the occasion, and urged the
people to follow the example of the departed. From
the services to the cemetery followed thirty-one vehicles,
and she was iaid to rest from the toils and care of this
life, and indeed she rests for the first time in twenty-two
years of my acquaintance with her. "Peace to her
ashes."						EMILY MADDISON.

	DIED in Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah, October 5, 1882,
at 1.10 a. m., of small-pox, Lucy Ann, wife of Richard
D. Brown, Jr., aged 32 years and 10 months, leaving a
husband, four children, and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss. The youngest child being
less than two years old. Sister Lucy was the daughter
of the present President of the Relief Society of Slater-
ville, Mother Field, and was born in the Church, at
Bloomington, Iowa, Nov. 30th, 1849, her father dying
three weeks prior to her birth, leaving the care of raising
a large family upon the mother; who brought them to
the Valley, and settled in Slaterville, Weber Co., thirty
years ago. Deceased was baptized a member of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old, and in her maiden days taught school in
Slaterville. She was married to R. D. Brown, in the En-
dowment House, Salt Lake City, December 5th, 1870,
residing in Harrisville since that time. She was a social
friend, an affectionate daughter, a worthy mother and
loving wife. None knew her but to respect her, and her
departure is widely felt. She was a member and senior
teacher in the Ladies' Bible Class in our Sunday School,
and has been a member and acting Secretary of the
Relief Society since the first organization in the ward.
She passed off in peace in an apparent slumber, without
a struggle; she was buried on their own place the same
morning, the only mourners to follow her to her last
resting-place were her husband, her children, and a
number of her relatives standing a distance off, thus

[Column 2]
showing their regards to the respected dead. Elder Wm.
England, of Plain City, taking charge of the interment.
She was buried in full temple clothing. Brother England
remarked that she was being rather roughly laid away,
but she would arise in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion full of honor, as effulgent as the sun at noonday.
			MRS. MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, Prest.
			MISS ANNIE E. SHURTLIFF, Sec.
[Utah papers please copy.]


