[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 121 | General Feature | A Toy He Will Treasure | June F. Krambule]
120 nip on an es Cen werent oe erent CE THO cerca secant ee 5 9 = 6 I jan June F. Krambule _Teaihe spay a DF eager ee / vi Model in Picture LITT T pe MS i Michael Anderson [Maite -4—/_/ @ Hours of fun were created by Mrs. Ivan Anderson of Shelley, Idaho, and given to grandson Michael Anderson, in the form of an inexpensive, longlasting Christmas gift—one that will stimulate his imagination for as long as little boys like cars and airplanes. It is a "Toy Town'—a sort of magic city—perfect for rainy days or stay-clean hours when Mother has errands to run. This toy is made from a piece of heavy canvas (we suggest about 4' x 6') On it has been sketched a layout of a model city, containing all the buildings Michael is familiar with, including train station, school, church, hotel, hospital, and supermarket. For added measure, the layout includes a construction company for the use of fascinating dump trucks and cranes; a zoo, a farm, and an airport to house the many miniature airplanes that zoom and roar in little boys' hands. Around the outside of the model city runs a train track, drawn, as are all the outlines of buildings and streets, with felt markers so popular with homemakers these days. A box of model trains, zoo animals, and a variety of cars, including ambulances and milk trucks, go with the floor layout and provide hours of imaginative play. Homes along the avenues have garages to house the miniature automobiles. These garages are pockets made of muslin, pleated at the edges, into which chubby fists can push tiny cars. Houses and other buildings, outlined with felt pens, can be colored lightly with crayon. Do you have a "little one" 'with an imagination? Why not draft him a Toy Town and let him spend those indoor hours driving to Sunday School, delivering milk, rushing patients to the hospital, landing his jet, or motoring to the farm? This gift is interesting to make, easy to mail, compact to store, easy on clothes. All things that appeal to grownups—and lots of fun for a youngster.