[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 111 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Angel Number Three Lael | J. Littke]
[The Home Inside and Out Angel Number Three Lael J. Littke]

After the agent returned, he went directly to his work, making no attempt to resume the conversation, until once again he put down his pen and rose to his feet "Bout train time," he said. "If she's on time from Salt Lake, she will be pulling in in about five minutes." And the train was on time, exactly nine forty-five. As the conductor lowered the steps, he looked past Nora at the station agent. "Only one asked. Passenger?" he An igel Nut t emir ine The Golden Chain "That's all," answered the agent, putting Nora's luggage aboard. "No one out tonight just for the ride." The train was almost deserted. Nora found a seat alone and placed both of her bags beside her. It seemed that they moved very slowly, and the train stopped in every little village along the way. The train grew chilly and, after an interminably long time, at last Nora heard the announcement. "Banner, Idaho!" This was it. Nora picked up her luggage and moved toward the door of the train. (To be continued) Cen phe ee: Pe. She stands there so absorbed in the unfolding of the story of the Christ Child that I am afraid she will forget to say her part, so carefully memorized during the past week ('""Mama, I'm to be Angel Number Three and have a whole sentence to say"). Her tinsel halo has slipped to a lopsided perch over her right eye (symbolic maybe?) and her large paper collar is only a little crumpled. Her eyes shine. To her, the bathrobed little boys are truly shepherds come to gaze at the Holy Babe in the manger, and she and the other little girls actually angels (who can deny it?) come to bring the glad tidings. It is her turn to speak, and I wish that I could adjust her halo and prompt her, but I can only sit and watch and hope I have taught her well enough. Her voice is clear. "And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the Babe wrapped in swalling clothes and lying in a manger." ("Swaddling," I had coached her. "Say 'swaddling.' "') I am proud that she faces the audience—and the world—with so steady a gaze. She's growing up, my little Angel Number Three, and becoming independent. That's the way it should be; that's the way I want it to be. Then why do my arms feel empty and my eyes well with tears?