[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 81 | Article | Gift of Time | Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
2 Gift of Time Eva Willes Wangsgaard Over night's purple hill tomorrows come To offer faith, new hope, another chance. In this anticipation lies the sum Of man's survival and the world's advance. Tomorrow is a pheasant in the brush, Its plumage many-hued and prism-bright, Which lifts above the shadows' muting plush, On low-flung wings, a shining arc of flight. However deep the pain or darkness lies, Tomorrow's aura beckons just ahead And brings a gift unseen by finite eyes, A rich surprise with powers unlimited, An iridescent glow, a golden band, A gift of time, love-blessed, divinely planned. The Cover: Winter Portrait Transparency by Jim Keeler Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Lake Shikotsu, Japan Photograph by Harold M.

Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes From Near and Far I wonder if there could be anyone who waits for The Relief Society Magazine as anxiously as I do. It may well be because the Magazine has so many readers and admirers. Why this anxiety? Well, there are many reasons. First of all, I am from Buenos Aires, Argentina, and, as you know, my language is Spanish, and that is one of the reasons why I am enjoying the Spanish Magazine. Secondly, for the varied topics of interest on many subjects, and because it also appeals to my husband. For this, I have an enjoyable time commenting, and this provides a beautiful and instructive means for a discussion with my husband. Julia P. Mangum Provo, Utah My daughter and son-in-law are Latter-day Saints. I am Baptist, but I love The Relief Society Magazine, and we share it with my daughter-in-law, who is Presbyterian! Therefore three homes greatly benefit from it. Mrs. Lydia Leeds Greer, Arizona Our wonderful Magazine has always been a great comfort to me. The beautiful stories teach a lesson that can comfort when one is troubled and worried. The editorial page is so inspiring. Now in my seventy-ninth year, living the gospel is the most important thing in my life. The Magazine helps me so much. I read it from cover to cover and also send it to two of my daughters. Agnes Watts Spring Valley, California The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years. I was especially touched by Pearle M. Olsen's article "Resembling Mother" (May 1966). If Pearle's own mother was anything like her, she was truly a wonderful person. Other thoughts I enjoyed from the May issue were: "Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother," by Leah Green, and Lydia Parker's "Letter to Daughter From Mother." Mabel L. Anderson's "Much of Worth The Relief Society Magazine" expressed the feelings of women throughout the Church. I also enjoyed "Offering for Peace" (poem by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and my heart was particularly touched by "My Heart Would Break," by Maude O. Cook. Amy Giles Bond Kaysville, Utah I could see joy and delight in my husband's face as he sat down to his Sunday dinner a few weeks ago. As he finished the last morsel of food, I detected a little note of extra special thanks as he expressed his appreciation to me for the meal. So I feel I owe this extra special thanks to Asel B. Brodt for her most delightful account in the August Magazine of serving her father's favorite dessert "Apple Dumplings," and the recipe accompanying it. This recipe will be added to my recipe file. All my married life (twenty-six years), my husband has been trying to get me to make him some boiled apple dumplings the way his mother used to make them, so I was thrilled when I came across this article. Mrs. Blenavond F. Curtis Baldwin Park, California 83 Compassionate Service in Relief @ It is an honor, my sisters, to be invited to address you this morning. When Sister Spafford invited me to come here I asked her to give me a memorandum suggesting matters on which I might speak. In response to this request, I received a letter from Sister Sharp who said that I might speak (1) on compassionate services of Relief Society, and (2) on services we are ready to perform as directed by the General Church Welfare Committee. I shall first direct my remarks to the second suggestion. For the past thirty years Relief Society has been, and still is, the bishop's chief auxiliary aide in implementing the Church Welfare Program. Among other things, the ward Relief Society president has been, and _ still should be, called upon to study, analyze, and report to her bishop conceming circumstances of the needy, to prepare orders on bishops' storehouses and to assist in preparing forecasts for future needs. Members of Relief Society have been, and still should be, willing to work at the call of the bishop on sewing, canning, and other welfare production projects. For many years Relief Society was given a major assignment in the field of employment, particularly with respect to women and girls. While under the present welfare organization procedures, the Relief Society is not asked to participate in employment finding and placement in industry, there is a service with respect to domestic employment in the homes of ward members which