[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 122 | Fiction | Conclusion | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
121 ae Ns WS Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 8 (Conclusion) a "Come back here, Julie!" Cleo demanded. ''We must go for help. It will take men who know how, and all their equipment, to lift him out of there. We'll have to hurry." "TY won't leave him here!" Julie cried out as she crawled back to the safe, hard ground and stood up facing Cleo. "Casey Jones knew he was down there. Why didn't we listen to that good old kelpie? He's been coming out here every night alone, running all those miles. He's begged us to come!" Cleo. Gritted her teeth. "I know," she said. "Uncle Rufe would call me a plain mutton-head. But now—-we've got to move fast. I can't blame you for staying here, Julie. If my John was down there, no one could pull me away either. I'll go for help." "But how, Aunt Cleo? We're forty miles from the: station—almost twenty from the highway. You might not know your way back without Casey Jones." Cleo's eyes had firey little glints in them. "I'm a bush-woman, Julie. I know what to do in an emergency. I'll get back to the highway in the jeep. Then I'll 122 shoot the telegraph wires. That is a signal for help out here. Linesmen answer that call no matter where they are. I can't say how long we'll have to wait. Maybe a few hours—maybe all night—maybe longer. But they will come." "Can you hit the wire?" Julie was incredulous. "It's way up in the sky." "It will take a good shot," she answered. Her chin squared off. "T did it when a horse fell on Uncle Rufe. God willing, I can do it again." Julie touched her cheek. "Grandfather says that you are the best shot in Australia," she said. Cleo's wide mouth relaxed. "I'm glad there's something I can do that pleases him, Julie. I've about given up—trying to make him like me." Julie hugged her. "We all have a place in his heart," she said. "I love you, Aunt Cleo, I think you are the very salt of the earth. I really do." Cleo said brusquely: "Take this torch. Hang it on your belt. You have that old survival kit and your water bag. Keep your rifle right by your side. Lift it, don't drag it. Trust old Casey Jones to key you if anything vicious comes near you." She strode off across the bush, her bright yellow hair flying in the breeze. Julie was alone with Casey Jones, guarding Ron, far down in a deep, dark hole. She crawled up beside the dog again. He licked her hands, and nuzzled his face in them. "Good kelpie,"' she whispered to him. A few minutes later she heard the horn of the jeep. Aunt Cleo was riding toward the highway. Julie inched closer to the hole and turned her torch into its darkness. She could see nothing but jagged, crusty earth on every side. She cupped her hands and called down: '"Ron—Ron, darling. I'm here. Ill never leave you. Never. Aunt Cleo has gone for help. So don't give up." Her words were an empty wail with a weird echo. She shivered and closed her eyes. Wild birds circled above them. Hours dragged by. The afternoon sun faded into twilight, and the cockatoos began their unearthly screeching. Great, widewinged bats flew over her. The brittle, dry tufts of grass crackled as something slithered through it. Night came down like a heavy blanket of darkness. There was no moon in the sky. No stars. Julie felt a damp mist on her face and arms. Dear Heavenly Father, she cried into the darkness, don't let it rain until they come. "Ron.... Oh, Ron, darling," she called again and strained to Tell Me of Love listen. This time Casey Jones raised his head listening, too. His body tensed. He barked, wagging his tail. Julie wondered if she imagined it, or did someone say "Julie." She leaned forward eagerly, waiting, but it was only the wind sighing through the bush. Tuzre was a freezing drizzle in the air. She crawled closer to Casey Jones, trying to warm herself against his fluffy hair. They lay quietly listening for some whisper of life in the hole below them. Instead, she heard the crackle of brittle-dry grass as something stepped on it coming nearer. Nearer. Fear beat in Julie like a hammer. Casey Jones' head came up with a jerk. He crawled backwards, jumping to his feet. Julie followed him, lifting her rifle and turning her torch on the approaching object. A huge dingo! She saw it plainly, glittering eyes, teeth bared. His breath was a howling snarl as he leaped for Casey Jones. He had returned to kill him. They fought savagely, biting, tearing at each other. Her torch was focused on them but how could she aim her rifle if she had to drop the torch? Panic rose in her throat, but she beat it down. Closing her eyes, she prayed desperately. When she opened her eyes the big dingo was tearing at Casey Jones' wounded shoulder. Their howls wailed with the wind. Julie reached the bush and put the lighted torch in its branches. It was a spotlight on the fighting dogs. Slowly, carefully, she lifted her 

123 February 1967

 rifle, aiming at the dingo. She must hit him in the head. If she only wounded him, he would turn and attack her. The shot rang out across the black night. She fired again. The dingo reared back, pawing the air, then he flopped to the earth, and Casey Jones was free. Julie ran to him, cradling him in her lap. She took off her shirt and tore it to pieces, mopping his wounds. "Good _ kelpie," she crooned gently. "Good Casey Jones." The wind rose, whipping about them, freezing the mist in the air. Julie was chilled and aching, but she crawled back to the hole. She must keep on calling to Ron —calling—calling. He must know she was near him. Casey Jones crawled up beside her. He was wet and shivering. They were both weak and exhausted. A hazy sleep enveloped her. The next time she awakened she crawled closer to Casey Jones. He was scarcely breathing. "Oh, no!" she cried into the darkness. "Don't leave me Casey—please don't—die." She lay close to him and murmured encouraging words until he finally licked her hand.... *k ck KK Ck oR I arora heard a man's voice. It was a dear, familiar voice. "She's regaining consciousness," he said to someone. "Julie —you are safe now. Speak to us, dear." It was Dr. George's voice. It was hazy and faded away. Then she heard him again: "You are back at the station, Julie, in Isabelle's bed." Big Dan's voice came to her. "The little Julie is a brave one. 124 It was the sound of her voice that kept Ron hanging on to life. He told me so." "A brave one," Dr. George said. "It was that dingo that backed Ron into the hole. I'm glad she got him right in the head." Julie's eyes fluttered open, but everything was hazy. "Ron... " she whispered. "Where—is Ron?" "He's alive, dear,' Aunt Isabelle said, close to her ear. 'Dr. George has sent for the best doctors in Perth. Father, Aunt Tricia, and the children will come, too. Wally and Betz have gone to the township to meet them. Carolyn is taking care of Ron in the back room." Julie's chest was heavy. She could hardly breathe. It's pneumonia, she thought. She must see Ron. She struggled to sit up, but Isabelle pushed her gently back to the pillow. "Tell me—about Ron.... Her voice was a raspy whisper. "We'll pull him through," Dr. George said. "Get well and strong so you can help us." *T will—oh, I will...." She closed her eyes, breathing hard, trying to fight off the darkness, but she slipped into unconsciousness again. The next time she opened her eyes, Aunt Cleo's face was above her, sweat was streaming down Aunt Cleo's cheecks, and she was rubbing Julie from head to toes with a foul-smelling salve. Julie was hot, sweating hot. She could not endure it. "Aunt Cleo, please don't. Mutton tallow and eucalyptus make —me—so sick. I'm burning up— I can't breathe." 3 3? "Put more wood in the stove, Wally," Cleo ordered. '"She's waking up, but we can't quit. We've -got to sweat this bush chill clear out of her. It's the only way. Keep the stove red hot." "You can't stand it in here, Aunt Cleo," Wally said. "It's hot enough to bake you alive. Uncle John is worried about you." "Tell him—I'm all right. You get more wood. We have to keep on." Darkness came again to Julie. She sank into it. Julie opened her eyes, wondering where she was. She could breathe easily. The room was cool as a green paddock. Grandfather was in the chair beside her bed. "Hello," she said in a thin little voice. He smiled and touched her hand. "She's better, Cleo," he said with a grateful sigh. "Our little girl is all right. Your bush method has won. You did a fine job. Thank you for all of us." "She cooked us all," Wally said. "Dad and Uncle John chopped three loads of wood. I'll go and tell them Julie is conscious." Julie's eyes moved from one person to another, Dr. George, pe er 7 Aunt Isabelle, then to Aunt Cleo at the foot of the bed. She was pale and thinner, but her smile was radiant. "You did it, Cleo," Dr: George said. "Julie didn't respond to anything I gave her. Carolyn and I had all the newest medicines. I have never seen anyone work harder to save a life than you did." Julie saw Cleo through misty eyes.: "She's worth it," Cleo said. "I'll do it all over if she needs it." "She'll make George said. "That's an old bush remedy," Cleo explained. "I saw my Uncle Rufe cook that chill out of my brother Joe when he'd been out there three days." "Ron...." "Where is Ron?" "We made a small hospital in the back room,' Grandfather told her. ""When you are stronger we will take you to him." "Now, Grandfather. Please." She tried to sit up, but sank back against the pillow. "Soon," Grandfather said. "Be a good girl and stay quiet a while longer. We are all close by, Julie."' Someone was always with her. Casey Jones came in, but most it now," Dr. Julie Aaleadl 

125 February 1967

 of the time he was with Ron. One day Betz came in, red-eyed, as though she had been weeping. "They wouldn't let me come in before this," she said, indignantly. "I nearly died with worry. Even Wally couldn't eat when you were so sick." "That showed his devotion," Julie said, smiling. '"What a sacrifice. When he can't eat, he's really bushed."' "Look, Julie." Betz opened a box she had brought with her. "IT sent to Perth for this dressing gown. Wear it when you go to Ron. You'll look gorgeous in pink." Her voice broke. She put her hand over her mouth. "I have stayed too long," she said. "Aunt Isabelle will scold me. Only Grandfather is permitted to come in here any time he wants to." Julie noticed that Grandfather was always nearby as if protecting her. He is afraid the others will tell me something, Julie thought. She knew they were keeping something from her. Something about Ron. Sue was alone after Betz left the room; with a great effort she got to her feet. The dressing gown Betz had given her was on the chair nearby. She struggled into it, loving the feel of the soft cashmere, tying the silken bow at the collar. She would walk down the hall to Ron's room. She held onto the bed, inching her way along, weak and unsteady, but determined. The door opened and Grandfather came in. He did not look angry nor even surprised. "You are pretty as a picture," 126 he said, sitting in his chair. Julie sat down on the bed. She looked directly into his eyes. "Tell me, Grandfather. About Ron." "He is a lucky boy to be alive," he answered in his quiet way. "He was down there five days with a broken back." His voice was gentle, but Julie thought it faltered. Her eyes had darkened and seemed too big for her pale face. "{T have to know, Grandfather," she said. '"Tell me." He drew a long breath. His face seemed suddenly older and very tired. But his strong, stern chin was steady as a rock. "It will be a long time before Ron will walk again," he said. Julie sat perfectly still. Ron might always be a cripple. She saw the golden sunshine streaming through the window. Her eyes focused on the everlasting flowers that Ron had picked and put in the vase under Grannie's picture. She was in her wedding dress. It had hung on the wall right there ever since Julie could remember. Tears stung her eyes, but she did not weep. This was a time when you had to cling to hope and courage. Grannie had told her many times that to love was to know both bitter and sweet. She reached for Grandfather's hand and held it tenderly in both her own. They sat silently for a long, prayerful moment. "T love him, Grandfather," she said. Her voice had the whole world in its gentleness. "That means I will do anything for him. If he cannot walk alone, I will help him. We will study together until he finishes at the Univer- sity. But, please, if you love us, Grandfather, let us marry now. Don't send me away from him again." He looked up at Grandmother's picture. The deep lines around his mouth softened, but he did not speak. Tue old clock in the corner ticked so loudly Julie wondered if it was the sound of her own heart. At last he looked a Julie. The comers of his mouth turned up in a roguish smile. "Do you think your Grannie's wedding dress will fit you? I am sure that will please her. You are her namesake, Julia Ann Ridgehaven." Julie bent her head. She could hardly squeeze the tears back. But Grandfather did not like tears. He said tears had never won a battle yet. "As soon as you and Ron are both well,'' he went on, '"'we will fly to New Zealand to go to the temple. Would you like a small wedding breakfast at our home on Rushcutters Bay?" Julie nodded. She was too full of joy to speak. His voice bridled: "Remember this, Julie. I insist that Ron finish at the university, then he can teach. The doctors expect he will finally walk, but he must be prepared to take his place in the world, anyway. Education is very important in our life today. I mean to see that my family helps to keep Australia up there working at it." He gave Julie a wise smile. "Your cousin Wally has told me how he feels about Betz." Julie's heart beat faster. Tell Me of Love "I am not surprised," he said. "He and Sue Ellen have been drifting apart. Probably they were not meant for each other." He looked quizzically at Julie, but she didn't offer an opinion. "When Wally finishes at the University next January, if this infatuation for Betz has deepened into real, enduring love, they will have my consent to marry. Your Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey seem very pleased with her. A little American spirit will be a good thing for the Ridgehavens. In Wally's words, she has worked like a drover out here, and proved she is a bit of all right!" There was a tap-tap on the door. It opened and Aunt Tricia came in with little Kip and Brown. The children looked at Julie with wide, curious eyes. ""We said our prayers for you, Julie," Kip said. "Now, you're up!" Julie hugged them both. "I'm glad you prayed for me," she said, lifting her eyes to Aunt Tricia. "Thank you. Thank you!" The rest of the family crowded into the room. Dr. George called out, "Look at our girl, sitting up. She'll be able to dance at our wedding, Isabelle." "I will!" Julie smiled back. Uncle John put his arm around Aunt Cleo. "Father, Cleo and I want the spotlight for a second. We are expecting another baby." "That's jolly good news," Grandfather beamed. "Another Rideghaven." Uncle John's eyes " twinkled. "Cleo wants to know, if the baby is a boy, would you like us to name him Sir Walter Scott?" 

127 February 1967

 "I would not!" Fierce lights brightened Grandfather's eyes. "Cleo should remember her own heritage. If you want my opinion, the name, Rufe Riley Quinn Ridgehaven, would please me; in " honor of the finest grazier I have ever known. I am proud that my son John is married to the wonderful girl he reared!" No one spoke. The room held a quiet and sacred stillness. Aunt Cleo's face was lifted. She looked as though she had just been decorated by the Queen. Grandfather unwound his long legs and got to his feet. "Come, my dear," he said to Julie. "I will take you to Ron's room." Wally pushed forward. "Let me carry her to him, Grandfather," he coaxed. "That might be best," Grandfather agreed. "But only carry her to his door. Let her walk to him alone." "She's too weak," Wally protested. "'She's skinny as a crow." "She can go in alone," Grandfather said, "We can always make our goal when we know that someone who truly loves us —is waiting."