[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 128 | General Feature | Butter Frosting Made With a Mixer Judith Leigh-Kendall | ]
BUTTER FROSTING MADE WITH A MIXER Judith Leigh-Kendall Using a small mixer bowl, pour in one pound of unsifted powdered sugar. Add 14 cup soft butter and 3 tablespoons liquid (water, milk, or cream). Turn the mixer on to the lowest speed and mix well. Add one teaspoon flavoring, and turn the mixer up high for whipping. If the frosting seems too thick, add another tablespoon of liquid. Whip at high speed a few minutes. This frosting is lump free and saves a few minutes of a busy homemaker's time. It will frost the tops and sides of most layer cakes or a sheet cake. KATE'S COOKIES Kate Swainston 14 cup white sugar Y cup brown sugar 1 egg 1 cube butter (14 Ib.) *2 tablespoons of cream *1 tablespoon of lemon juice 1144 cup flour 14% tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 14 cup rolled oats Mix ingredients together in order listed. Roll and store in refrigerator for two to four hours before baking. Slice and place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 12 minutes. *Three tbsp. Sour cream can be substituted. 128 Rose Ella Miller Hall, Jacksonville, Florida, preserves the radiant beauty of flowers in lasting form and color. Roses, lilies, daisies, dahlias—flowers in bouquets, flowers in pools and rustic gardens—flowers adorning the landscape of a cottage in the hills—Mrs. Hall has captured the elusive beauty of the floral kingdom. Her interest in painting developed at an early age when she bought art supplies with her penny-budget. Later in life, she earned her living by painting delicate flowers on silk blouses and scarves. Her paintings have found places of honor in numerous homes throughout the United States. Many of her scenes are painted from happy childhood memories. The Relief Society sisters know that when bazaar time comes, they will have the opportunity of seeing some lovely paintings by Mrs. Hall, as well as hearing the background story of each painting. Mrs. Hall, a member of the Jacksonville Second Ward, Florida Stake, bears a fervent and sincere te