[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 152 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "Wisdom Teaches Right" Bruce | B. Clark]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 7—'"'Wisdom Teaches Right'"' (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume 2: Love, Marriage, and the Family) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show that a woman who uses well what she has learned adds wisdom to knowledge. As the ancient Roman writer Juvenal said, The lesson for this month contains two short stories, one excerpt from a novel, and nine little poems, all of which are printed, with notes and discussions, in Section Seven of Volume 2 of Out of the Best Books. All readers having access to that book should study the selections there because space permits only a brief coverage here. Class leaders, obviously, should not try to cover all twelve selections in the one lesson. Instead, each leader should choose those poems or stories which she can teach most enthusiastically and which she feels will be most valuable for her group. (Note to class leaders: The poems by Burns, Wordsworth, and Whitman, the story by Chekhov, and the excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel may be reprinted if needed; all other selections, however, are under copyright restrictions and should not be reprinted without permission from the publisher.) GENERAL COMMENT In chapter 3 of Proverbs (verses 13-18) in the Old Testament we read the following: Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. 152 "Wisdom first teaches what is right." For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her. This is only one of the many passages throughout the Bible proclaiming the value of wisdom, or warning of the dangers of too much pride in earthly learning. The Book of Mormon also contains comments on the need for genuine wisdom, as does the Doctrine and Covenants in modern times. Both Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith were especially admonished by the Lord through Joseph Smith the Prophet to seek wisdom as a goal of goals: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D&C 6:7 and 11:7). Similarly, in a broader sense, all Latter-day Saints are instructed by the Lord diligently to seek wisdom: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118 and 109:7). What then is wisdom? Is it knowledge? Yes, but more than knowledge. Is it experience? Yes, but more than experience. Is it insight? Yes, but more than insight. It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration. At least this is wisdom at its highest. Most of us must be content with only a partial wisdom, because we have only a fragmentary knowledge, a limited experience, an incomplete insight, and a developing faith. However, like faith, wisdom. Can grow as we enrich our learning, broaden our experience, and draw closer to God in righteous living. In addition to personal experience as a source of wisdom, we can also learn from the experience of others. Christ was the world's greatest teacher; but there have been other wise teachers and thinkers who have left us a marvelous heritage of wisdom in thousands of books, available at the price of a little time. We have around us the wisdom of inspired Church leaders, friends, living teachers, and loving family members if we will but draw from each what each has to give. Every human being has something valuable to teach us if we will be teachable. Father, mother, grandparents—these are an especial source of loving wisdom. I remember my own mother as the strongest, most elevating influence of my life. Hers was a noble spirit, which neither poor Lesson Department health nor hard work on a homestead dry farm in Idaho nor the cultural aridness of a small town could smother. She taught me to love books, beauty, truth, service, and the Relief Society _program, in which she taught continuously for over thirty-five years. She told me, in a way that made me really believe, that the goal of life is to give, not to get. She showed me that there are three basic reasons why people avoid wrong and do right: the first and lowest is fear of punishment for wrongdoing; the second is hope of reward for right living; the third and highest. Is righteousness for its own sake. So strong was Mother's influence that need for social approval of others was slight; it mattered only that Mother would approve or disapprove, according to principle. Mother has been dead for over ten years now, but I shall never forget her, nor the lessons she taught, nor the example she set. I have never done any right but that it was partly nourished by her life of sacrifice, and I have never done any wrong but that part of the anguish sprang from awareness that I was betraying her confidence in me. The enemies of wisdom are multitudinous, but chief among them are ignorance, prejudice, superstition, short-sightedness, narrowness, selfishness, and materialism. These must be avoided — as well as the positive aspects sought. Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some 

153 February 1967

 psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the right environment during their children's earliest years. What present-day psychologists are now saying, prophets and poets have been saying for generations. 'Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" we read in Proverbs 22:6. '"'As the twig is bent, so shall the tree grow" is an old folk saying. Our heritage is rich with scriptures and comments of this kind, recognizing the importance of wise education in youth. THREE POEMS BY WORDSWORTH AND WHITMAN First a little poem by William Wordsworth (1770-1850): My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in tHe sky: So was it when my life began: So is it now I am a man: So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man: And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. The key line is "the child is father of the man."' Anyone who studies Wordsworth's poetry as a whole knows how modern he is in his recognition of the vital relationship between childhood éxperiences and adult natures. Indeed "the child is father of the 154 man" in the sense that what the man (or woman) becomes is largely determined by what the child experiences. All of this is extensively restated in Wordsworth's masterpiece, The Prelude, which is a long poetic recollection of all the incidents and feelings in his own childhood that Wordsworth felt contributed especially to his personal growth to maturity as a poet. Often he includes in The Prelude incidents which might not appear to be very important but which he knew had a great impression upon him as a child—and therefore great importance. Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up fostered alike by beauty and by fear.... The phrase "fair seed-time" is especially meaningful. Childhood is a time of tender growing when, influenced by experiences of beauty and fear, the attitudes, values, and personality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Wordsworth recalls in richly musical blank-verse lines, two boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, "though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious,' but the end—the shaping of a grown man—was not ignoble. The third poem in this section is "There Was a Child Went Forth" by Walt Whitman (1819- 1892): Lesson Department There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years. The early lilacs became part of this child, And grass and white and red morning-glories, and white and red clover, and the song of the phoebe bird, And the Third-month lambs and the sow's pink-faint litter, and the mare's foal and cow's calf, And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond-side, And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there, and the beautiful curious liquid, And the water-plants with their graceful flat heads, all became part of him. The field-sprouts of Fourth-month and Fifth-month became part of him, Winter-grain sprouts and those of the light-yellow corn, and the esculent roots of the garden, And the apple-trees cover'd with blossoms and the fruit afterward, and woodberries, and the commonest weeds by the road, And the old drunkard staggering home from the outhouse of the tavern whence he had lately risen, And the schoolmistress that pass'd on her way to the school, And the friendly boys that pass'd, and the quarrelsome boys, And the tidy and fresh-cheek'd girls, and the barefoot negro boy and girl, And all the changes of city and country wherever he went. His own parents, he that had father'd him and she that had conceiv'd him in her womb and birth'd him, They gave this child more of themselves than that, They gave him afterward every day, they became part of him. The mother at home quietly placing the dishes on the supper-table, The mother with mild words, clean her cap and gown, a wholesome odor falling off her person and clothes as she walks by, The father, strong, self-sufficient, manly, mean, anger'd, unjust, The blow, the quick loud word, the tight bargain, the crafty lure, The family usages, the language, the company, the furniture, the yearning and swelling heart, Affection that will not be gainsay'd, the sense of what is real, the thought if after all it should prove unreal, The doubts of day-time and the doubts of night-time, the curious whether and how, Whether that which appears so is so, or is it all flashes and specks? Men and women crowding fast in the streets, if they are not flashes and specks what are they? The streets themselves and the facades of houses, and goods in the windows, Vehicles, teams, the heavy-plank'd wharves, the huge crossing at the ferries, The village on the highland seen from afar at sunset, the river between. Shadows, aureola and mist, the light falling on roofs and gables of white or brown two miles off, The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide, the little boat slack-tow'd astern, The hurrying tumbling waves, quick-broken crests, slapping, The strata of color'd clouds, the long bar of maroon-tint away solitary by itself, the spread of purity it lies motionless in, The horizon's edge, the flying sea-crow, the fragrance of salt marsh and shore mud, These became part of that child who went forth every day, and who now goes, and will always go forth every day. 

155 February 1967

 "I am part of all that I have met" wrote Tennyson in one of the best of his poems, "Ulysses." Childhood, as Whitman dramatizes it, is the time of absorbing. A child is like a sponge, soaking in everything around him. Children are curious about everything, and everything in their environment combines to make them what they become. Class Discussion (1) How do these poems by Wordsworth and Whitman impress upon us the importance of providing the right environment for children? (2) Is there danger in providing children too little direction? (3) Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? (4) What incidents in your own childhood especially influenced your life for good or bad? (5) Explain as fully as you can the meaning of Wordsworth's line 'The child is father of the man." OTHER SELECTIONS ON WISDOM The three poems quoted and discussed above come from the very end of Section Seven in the text. We have chosen them for this Magazine lesson because they explore significant ideas of universal interest to women. The nine other selections in this section of the text are also very important, however, and we urge class leaders and Relief Society sisters to explore them also in home study where they are not discussed in class. The first three selections are little poems by Robert Burns ("Epistle to a Young Friend'), William Butler Yeats ("Prayer for My Daughter'), and Rudyard Kipling ("If") in which an older person gives wise advice to young listeners. Burns' poem has a delightful spontaneity and di- 156 rectness that are very appealing, especially. When read by someone familiar with the Scottish dialect, which he used so skillfully. Also, he has some very wise advice. Note, for example, stanzas 7-9: To catch dame Fortune's_ golden smile, Assiduous wait upon her: And gather gear by ev'ry wile That's justified by honor; Not for to hide it in a hedge, Nor for a train attendant; But for the glorious privilege Of being independent. The fear o' hell's a hangman's whip, To haud the wretch in order; But where ye feel your honor grip, Let that aye be your border; Its slightest touches, instant pause— Debar a' side-pretences; And resolutely keep is laws, Uncaring consequences. The great Creator to revere, Must sure become the creature; But still the preaching cant forbear, And ev'n the rigid feature; Yet ne'er with wits profane to range, Be complaisance extended; An atheist-laugh's a poor exchange For Deity offended! Yeat's poem is equally good, even though a little more difficult, and equally wise, even though a little more subtle—as he prays, among other things, that his daughter may be beautiful, but not too beautiful, and as he comments that he would have her learned in courtesy and that hearts must be earned not had as a gift. Kipling's famous little poem "If" may not be quite so poetic as Burs' and Yeat's, but still contains some very wise advice. Lack of space here necessitates ever briefer comments on the six other selections. Stephen Vincent History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 veer SOC A Gift to be treasured in all seasons Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments.

Objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received after December 15, 1966 at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 February 1967 Benet's story '"Too Early Spring" provides excellent insight into a family situation in which parents have an opportunity to handle a problem wisely but instead handle it short-sightedly. Robert Frost's "Home Burial" is a powerful poem again showing a husband and wife who react unwisely when faced with a family problem. In contrast, the next selection, an excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel Man to Man (or Voice of the Intangible), shows one of our own Latter-day Saint authors writing about a wise parent whose advice to his son is the kind of advice every parent ought to be wise enough to give. Similarly, Gerald Manley Hopkins' companion poems "The Leaden Echo" and "The Golden Echo" are wise in their message —that as mortals we should set Fanny G. Brunt ' Everything is still, and cold, and bleak, The willows on Snake River's bank are nude, — Not a whispering breeze to break the stil Of this somber, pensive, winter solitud a The river, fringed with ice, creeps sl. A»picnic table, in that murky haze, Qn which a trusting robin meditate And sings of leafy trees, and sunny A 158 eternal goals rather than merely temporal goals. Finally, Anton Chekhov's great Russian story "The Bet" richly explores some special aspects of wisdom and its lack. All of these selections are valuable in touching upon one or another quality of wisdom but will need to be studied in the text because of lack of space here. Class leaders will need to be selective in what they use and not attempt to cover too much material. - This Cultural Refinement Lesson (No. 7, for May 1967 in the Northern Hemisphere, and September 1967 in the Southern Hemisphere) is entitled "Wisdom Teaches Right,"' instead of the title listed in the Preview published in the June 1966 Magazine. The painting "Woman With Plants," by Grant Wood (reproduced on page 688 of the September Magazine) will be used in connection with this lesson. Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES APRIL 11th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land proYou are vides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. Assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the-finest hotels.. All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. 'MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. NOME 20 eee cece cc ee ee cet cece ee cece eesees eee eeaeeeeeea ceases taps eee seteeeuees MURDOCK Nolo ¢:5 5 ce TRA VEL City. EeeState. EeeZip.....--..... >) aenee eens ec eececcenccesecces ss ees Reb, 7, BEAUTIFUL enn a ls TOUR HANDY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR DURABLE June 16-24 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR June 25-July 8 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 THREE HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS leaving July 22 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... -90 Zone 3...... Eee -60 Zone 7........-1.05 Zone 4...... Eee 65 Zone &........-.1.20 Zone 5.......... -80 159 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 strociion' of toch tenths, Relief Society, Memes Mountain IWeat's fist and. Finest" bindery: and printing house is prepared to bind your editions