[Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. ANNIVERSARY PARTIES, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ivie H. Jones SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, DEL RIO (TEXAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS A SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Left to right: President Carolina Aguirre; First Counselor Gregoria Sandoval; Second Counselor Casta Soraiz; work director Rita Hernandez; Antonia Aguirre; Ester Aguirre.: These six women are very proud of their latest achievement in preparing an unusually successful supper and bazaar.
They sold $31 worth of tickets for the supper and made $150 on the bazaar.
This was a unique achievement since the branch is exceptionally small and there is no American branch in Del Rio from which the Spanish-Amenican branch might receive co-operation. Ivie H.
Jones is president of the Spanish-American Mission Relief Society.  
628 
Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie CALIFORNIA MISSION, CHINO VALLEY (ARIZONA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY FIRST PRIZE BOOTH AT YAVAPAI COUNTY FAIR September 1948
Lucille Bates Bunker and Dorothy Bates Scott supervised the arrangements of the booth, aided by Nello Scott, Leah Langford Sommers, Ita Hunt Turley, and Keith Bunker. The prize was $100, and all of the articles were made by the seventeen sisters in this branch. Note the beautifully designed quilts, crochet work, hand-embroidered pillow cases, and the numerous decorative articles. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), RECENTLY APPOINTED STAKE BOARD OFFICERS Seated, center front, President Lola M. Shumway. Back row, left to right: Counselor Jennie Engstrom; Secretary-Treasurer Irene Pratt; Counselor Lola Green.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629
Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), ALAMOSA WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1949
Standing at the head of the tables, dressed in pioneer costume, President Mary Haynie and her counselors Cleone Berthclson and Clara Nissen, are holding the birthday cake. This delightful party was enjoyed by a large number of sisters who participated in a special prograin and luncheon in honor of the 107th birthday of Relief Society. Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mae Matis FINNISH MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AT CONFERENCE IN LARSMO PRESENT DRAMATIZATION OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Counselor Viola Ronnkvist; President Anna Stromberg, both of Larsmo Branch; Elsa Bloomquist, Secretary, Jacobstad Branch; Vera Nyman, President, Jacobstad Branch. Mae Matis is president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society. 
630 
Photograph submitted by Lorena W. Anderson TEMPLE VIEW STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), JEFFERSON WARD HONORS PAST OFFICERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1949
Left to right: former ward presidents: Lida C. Prince; Althera Farnsworth; present president Zina Mayland; former president Della Curtis (cutting the cake); Karren Anderson, a counselor to the first president of the ward Relief Society. Alice Davis (now deceased); Alice Graves, former ward president; Ida VanCott, secretary to former president Alice Davis; Lorena W. Anderson, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society. This enjoyable entertainment commemorated twenty-five years of Relief Society activities in Jefferson Ward. A history of these years of growth, composed by Mabel Jones Gabbott, was read by Gwen Jensen. An inspirational address was delivered by Bishop J. Donald Gabbott, representing the Priesthood. Lorena W. Anderson is president of Temple View Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rhea F. Smurthwaite LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), LIBERTY WARD PAGEANT "AMERICA, THE LAND OF PROMISE," March 6, 1949
Front row, at left, directly back of the piano, President Rhea F. Smurthwaite, and at her left Second Counselor Grace Foutz; at the right, seated against the railing, stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 631 chorister Winnifred Smith, and next to her, First Counselor Theresa Weiss, author of the pageant (in co-operation with Karl Weiss). The pageant depicted the epic story of the American continent, told through characters representing the attributes of womanhood, such as motherhood, faith, service, 'love, chastity. The costumes were made in lovely pastel colors which added much to the effectiveness of the pageant. The Singing Mothers rendered music appropriate to the theme, the spirit of liberty. LaNola C. Driggs is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. DMBibi bese ¢ Photograph submitted by Laura B. Bradshaw GRANITE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ENTERTAINED AT SPRING LUNCHEON, May 26, 1949
Front row, seated, left to nght: Emmaretta G. Brown; Myrtle B. Latimer; Agnes M. Bolto; Vauna S. Jacobsen. Standing, left to right: Beth C. Cannon; Ida M. Dean. In addition to the stake Relief Society presidents, other guests were the ward class leaders and ward and stake officers, members of Granite Stake presidency and their wives, a member of the high council, and representatives of the stake boards of all the other auxiliaries in the stake. Sister Blanche B. Stoddard of the Relief Society general board also attended the luncheon. President Ida M. Dean welcomed the guests and introduced the former presidents. A delicious luncheon was served, followed by a program of music, speeches, and readings. The table decorations were particularly attractive and significant for the occasion. Along the table were low white picket fences covered with climbing roses, through which arched gates swung open. At each gate stood a beautifully dressed doll. The favors at each place were small arched gates, decorated with pink flowers. At each gate stood a dainty miniature paper doll. Carrying out this artistic and thoughtful idea, Sister Dean read a poem which she composed. Parts of the poem are quoted below: "Dear friends, may we take you in fancy, down a pathway strewn with flowers Into an enchanted garden, and there spend a few happy hours ** & *€ So enter the open gateway, and rest beneath cooling bowers, But over your garden keep vigil, and refresh it with love's gentle showers." 
632 
Photograph submitted by Reva F. Wicker SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), ORCHARD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CANTATA "EASTER SUNRISE SONG," Apni 17, 1949
Grace Porter, director of the chorus, is seen at the left in the dark dress, and at right, in black dress, Edna Lunt, reader; Cherry Brown, the accompanist, at left, in print dress.. Reva F. Wicker is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Oe Dy: is "<2 " oy « Bang, 2 o, et Photograph eubmitted by Zelma S. Muir BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), OLDEST AND YOUNGEST MEMBERS OF BEAVER WARDS RELIEF SOCIETIES Seated, left to right: Frances L. Jones; Dorothy Williams. Standing, left to right: Colleen S Shelby; Betty June P. Oakden; Ida Messinger. Harriett Yardley, third oldest member, had to leave before this photograph was taken. The occasion for honoring these women was the 17th of March Anniversary party. Phylis S. Warr is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. LESSON = JE}DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 19—"Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" up to and including "Parable of the Pharisee and Publican" Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 27, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 6, 1949
Objective: To continue the unfolding, by his matchless teaching, of the great gospel plan as taught by the Lord Jesus. In the House of One of the Chief Pharisees UDGED by the marvelous lessons he taught, the trip through Perea was one of the most important taken by the Savior. He did not hesitate to show his power, if thereby he might give to the people a much-needed lesson.
While he was a guest at the home of a prominent Phanisee, a man afflicted with dropsy was healed by the Lord on the Sabbath day. He asked, "Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?" (Luke 14:3). No one ventured to answer. 'The answer was obvious.
They had been taught to rescue an animal in trouble. Who would deny the blessing to a human being?
Jesus did not hesitate to instruct in the matter of observing good manners.
When guests at a dinner sought high places of honor, he stated an enduring moral law: "For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 14:11).
This especially applies to workers in the Church and kingdom of God. A careful study should be made of the significant Parable of the Great Supper (Luke 14:16-24). It might be well to compare this with the parable relating to the marriage of the king's son (Matt. 22:2-14). Evidently, prior notice had been given in ample time to the chosen guests. It was to be a great event.
Note carefully the excuses given by the invited prospective guests. It is so easy to find seemingly plausible excuses when we do not want to do a thing required of us or which we are invited to do. The man who had done the inviting was plainly angry because the guests invited first had not come. He commanded that the poor, the blind, and the maimed should be brought to the feast.
This action indicated determination, but at the same time a disposition to do good and extend charity where needed. The lesson is plain. Israel, or the covenant race, was the specially invited guest. The children of Israel had been invited for a long while. Now they had been invited by the Messenger—Jehovah or the Christ, sent by the Father.
They refused  634 the invitation and now the gospel would be carried to the Gentiles.
Jesus declared of those who rejected his invitation, "For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper' (Luke 14:24).
Counting the Cost The teaching of a profound lesson is recorded in Luke 14:25-35.
During the journey we are considering, multitudes of people were attracted to the Lord wherever he appeared.
When a certain scribe offered to become a disciple, Jesus explained the hardships and the self-denial that would follow, and the man's ardor soon cooled. 'The Master then applied a real test of sincerity. The genuine disciple must give up his wealth, his loved ones, and everything dear in life and follow the Savior. How many can and will do it now?
Before one agrees to such an undertaking one should count well the cost.
Salvation for "Publicans and Sinners'— Illustrative Parables Both Pharisees and Galileans had criticized Jesus because he had extended his ministry to the "publicans and sinners." He responded by giving them the well-known Parable of the Lost Sheep, somewhat modified from its former presentation to meet the needed lesson (Luke 15:2-7). In considering the application of this and the Parable of the Lost Coin, it should be pointed out that Jesus did not defend the evil ways of wicked people. He sought only to teach that we should rejoice when there is genuine repentance  on the part of the sinner.
Jesus is the Good Shepherd. Of course he rejoices when a lost sheep is found. He rejoices also, however, over the good sheep who remain faithful within the fold. Let us next consider the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15: 11-32). It has been so much misunderstood. The action on the part of the younger son in demanding his portion of the father's estate while the father was yet alive was an instance of deliberate and unfilial desertion. He went into a far country and spent his substance in "riotous living."
Only when he suffered in abject poverty did he repent. A forgiving father was glad to welcome him back home. The father expressed his gratitude in acts of kindness. The son, counted as dead, was now alive. The older son, mistaking the father's joy on the return of the prodigal son, was angry and refused to enter the house. The father explained to the churlish older son: "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine." No portion of the older son's pattrimony was taken from him. We must not extol the repentance of the prodigal son above the faithfulness on the part of the older son.
Surely the sacred joy over the faithful here and hereafter exceeds the joy over the return of a sinful soul, even though the repentance on the latter's part is sincere and genuine. It was clearly a great lesson for the Pharisees.
They must have taken its application unto themselves.
They were following the letter of the law, but were unwilling to extend forgiveness to a truly repentant son. The lesson is not only for Copyright, 1929, by Eugene A. Perry From a painting by Soord
THE LOST SHEEP
 636 the Pharisees but for all people anytime, everywhere.
There is and always will be joy for the lost soul who repents and comes back, but it does not supersede the joy for the souls who remain true and faithful. The Disciples Instructed by Parable The Parable of the Unrighteous Steward (Luke 16:1-8) was given primarily to and for the disciples. The steward in the story was the authorized agent of the employer. He was acting within the scope of his authority.
Careful men do not fail to make provision for their future years.
Some are surprised to learn, while reading the parable, that this man's apparent dishonesty was extolled.
This is not the case. "His prudence and foresight were commended."
Derision of the Pharisees Met; Another Illustrative Parable More than passing attention should be given to the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus. Our Lord had given the hypocritical and scoffing Pharisees lessons on the right way of administering wealth.
They thought, what does the poor Galilean know of such things? The Pharisees were crafty manipulators and yet were so successful in justifying their deeds before men as to appear honest. The Lord knew their hearts, and their practices were an abomination in his sight. He gave them an additional lesson by an unforgettable parable (Luke 16:19-31).
These verses should be read. The rich man had fared sumptuously while on earth. He had been clothed in "purple and fine linen" while Lazarus, the beggar, "was laid at his gate, full of sores" and ate  the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table.
Dogs shared the lot of Lazarus and, when he died, he was probably buried in a pauper's grave. The nameless rich man also died. It is recorded that Lazarus went to Abraham's bosom signifying the paradise of God. The nch man died and went to a place of torment. As a Jew, he had doubtless often boasted that Abraham was his father. Now he was asking only for something to soothe his suffering, which he thought Lazarus, the onetime beggar, might bring. The conversation is enlightening. It was possible for the righteous to converse with the wicked. However, Abraham explained that it was impossible to grant the rich man's request because between the abode of the righteous Lazarus and that of the wicked sufferer "There is a great gulf fixed."
Passage between the two abodes was forbidden.
Even by parable, Jesus taught truly concerning the conditions in the hereafter.
That righteous and unrighteous dwell apart during the interval between death and resurrection is clear . . . . The parable teaches the continuation of individual existence after death, and the relation of cause to effect between the life one leads in mortality and the state awaiting him beyond.

Unprofitable Servants
Jesus also taught his disciples by parable when he could thereby impress the lesson more forcibly. The apostles, realizing the whole-souled service required of them, implored the Lord, saying, "Increase our faith." On one occasion the Lord repeated to them instructions previously given: "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:6). Their faith could best be determined by their obedience and service. The Parable of the Unprofitable Servants is given in Luke 17:7-10. It teaches that those who engage in the work of the Lord should give all their time and attention to him and even that would not repay him for all he had done. The apostles were not to complain at their tasks. The best they could do would only be their duty.

Ten Lepers Healed
Following the lesson mentioned in the preceding paragraph, Luke alone records the miracle of the healing of the ten lepers (Luke 17:11-19). He thereby also taught a great lesson on gratitude. Only one of the ten remembered to turn back and thank the Lord for his great blessing. That one was a Samaritan. Truly Jesus was preparing the apostles for the great lesson that the gospel was for all who were obedient.

The Pharisee and the Publican
The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was spoken "unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others" (Luke 18:9-14). It was not addressed to any particular class. It may be used to condemn the Pharisaic spirit of self-complacency wherever found. The Pharisee was grateful that he was better than the other in his own estimation. However, it is interesting to note that he prayed "with himself." Such prayers do not avail much with God. The repentant publican humbly asked for forgiveness and for mercy. The Lord summed up the lesson when he said, "For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."

Questions and Suggestions for Discussion

1. Apply the Parable of the Great Supper to our day. Why do our missionaries sometimes request applicants for baptism to wait for a while before joining the Church?

2. What proof may be cited from the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus of the conditions hereafter? Are spirits separated in paradise?

3. Discuss the Parable of the Unprofitable Servants as it applies to us. Are we willing to give more than is required of us in the service of the Lord?

4. What was the sin of the Pharisee who went up to the temple to pray? Show the danger of Latter-day Saints partaking of this spirit.

References in the Gospels
Matt. 8:19, 20; 9:10-13; 12:10; 19:3-12, 16-30; 18:12-14; 20:1-16.
Mark 10:13-31; 2:15-17.
Luke: 5:29-32; 9:52-56; 10:25; 14:1-35; 15:11-32; 16:1-31; 17:1-37; 18:1-14, 18-30.