[Literature: The Poet Shakespeare by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Elder Briant S. Jacobs Lesson 3—The Poet Shakespeare For Tuesday, December 20, 1949 VEN while our world continues to worship sensation, science, and the new model, Shakespeare endures.
Despite the weaknesses of youth and the busied indifferences of maturity, there are those within each generation who arise to call his name one of the sweetest and strongest in the language.
Increasingly each year his works are taught and read and performed, surely to feed a constant hunger for that which sustains. Now, as always since he wrote, Shakespeare is known and loved; it is Our present concern to ask why. In this short space it would be high presumption to attempt an evaluation of William Shakespeare, the supreme English author and dramatist, as revealed in his thirtyseven plays.
Setting aside, then, a study of his plays as a course to be anticipated in future years, let us attempt to learn for ourselves who Shakespeare was and is, and why the literary and poetic values of his writings are unsurpassed.
Although an immense accumulation of conjecture and opinion about Shakespeare's life now exists, actually we know precious little about him, and never has the little been more precious. In 1564 he was born in the country town of Stratford, located on the Avon River some eighty miles northwest of London. His parents were of the prosperous middle class, his father described alternately as a butcher, a wool merchant, and a dealer in gloves. At the age of eighteen Shakespeare married Anne Hathaway, a farmer's daughter eight years older than he, who bore him three children. In his early twenties he went to London.
Weare led to believe that he was employed in various minor jobs in one of the two London theaters, but by 1592, in his twentyeighth year, he was known both as an actor and as a writer of plays.
Soon after this date he further established his popularity among the nobility by dedicating two poems, Venus and Adonis and the Rape of Lucrece to Henry Wriothesley, Ear] LESSON DEPARTMENT of Southampton, who seems to have been his intimate friend as well as his patron (a wealthy art-lover who financed artists and musicians who in turn dedicated their works to him).
Most of his sonnets are believed to have been written during this period, from 1593 to 1596. He began writing two plays each year, and directed his own company of actors. At age thirty-three he purchased the largest house in Stratford; he also maintained a home in London where, save for periodical visits to Stratford, he spent most of his time. In 1611, at the height of his highly successful career, Shakespeare suddenly severed active connections with the theater and moved to Stratford.
Here for the next five years he lived the life of a respected gentleman. He continued his friendship with various actors until he died at the age of fifty-two, presumably of the dreaded plague.
About all these sketchy biographical details prove to us is that, so far as we can verify historically, his life was a simple and conventional one. He must have received no more education than the average town school offered, nor do we learn of any great mind which, during Shakespeare's most impressionable years, stimulated his genius. How, then, are we to account for the emergence of this man who, more than any other, molded into our language the strength, the flexibility, and the maturity which characterize modern English?
From whence came this master dramatistactor-poet who, it has been said, exerted more influence on the growth of British traditions, even on the growth of the British Empire 641 itself, than any other person?
Perhaps in the temper of the times, the most creative and vital in English history, lies at least part of our anSWeT. If Shakespeare was the flower of the Renaissance (rebirth), as he is generally acknowledged to be, the plant which produced such a bloom itself could have been no mean creation. Politically, economically, socially, and religiously, "the spacious times of Elizabeth" were epoch making. The strong, autocratic Tudors —Henry VII, Henry VIII, Elizabeth —defied any and all powers which seemed to endanger the unlimited expansion of everything English, and the emerging English middle classes but loved them the more for their courage and audacity, and for the wealth and intellectual freedom which resulted. Out of the confusion and uncertainty of the Hundred Years War with France (1337- 1453) and the English civil war, known as the Wars of the Roses (1455-1485), the Tudors built a vigorous, unified England.
Following the discoveries of Columbus and others, England, through her fleet and her maritime skill, made herself the crossroads of the world.
After the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, the military and commercial supremacy of England was assured, particularly so because of Queen Flizabeth's aggressive leadership. The resulting wave of nationalism gave further growth to the "pride of the English"; Shakespeare echoed it in his historical plays glorifying the English traditions. Henry V, for example, has been aptly described as an English national epic in dramatic form. 
642 
Inspirational 3-Part Music Women's Voices All in the April Evening—Diack._...15
Bless This House—Brahe _.. _._..15
The Bridge Builder—Dougall. 18
Come to Me—Beethoven 16 He Smiled on Me—O'Hara. _— 20
Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs..___ 15
How Beautiful Upon the Mountains —Harker 7 16
How Lovely Are the Messengers— Mendelssohn a2 I Shall Not Again Pass This Way— Effinger 18 If with All Your Hearts—Mendelssohn as The King of Glory—Parks _..___.. 20
The Lord's Prayer—Gates_ __.._.. 18
Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S.
Choral groups.
Music sent on approval.
Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. PIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Paynes When Henry VIII directed the passage of the Acts of Supremacy in 1534, England was freed from the domination of the Pope, and Henry became head of the English Church. A year later the power of the printing press became more evident when Miles Coverdale printed the first complete English Bible, and since reading and writing rapidly became common, each Englishman soon learned to read his Bible for himself.
Inevitably a new freedom characterized the realm of the intellect as well. In contrast to the other worldly Middle Ages, scholars concerned themselves with man and the immediate world about him.
They sought to explain their environment as perceived by the senses. As a result of the use of the inductive scientific method, the sciences of chemistry, physics, and medicine began to emerge from the realms of superstition and quackery.
Literature followed the classical Greek models, and borrowed profusely from Continental literary fashions, particularly those of Italy.
Written by some Oxford scholars, but largely by gentlemen of the court and the middle classes, the literature became experimental, word conscious, and purely lyrical, so filled with natural melody and song that poetry might seem to be the common speech of Englishmen. The "spaciousness" of the age was surely not in physical London, which to us would in part be smelly, dirty, unsanitary, and cruel; instead, as Englishmen walked her narrow streets, it was their imaginations which soared without restraint.
They saw visions and dreamed dreams of "brave new LESSON DEPARTMENT worlds," and, to describe what they saw and felt, they wrote for us the incredibly rich Elizabethan _literature, brimming with virility, naturalness, and originality. It is in probing this vein that we may enjoy the richest ore literature has produced: the writings of Shakespeare. However, we must remember that literature is never the sum total of whatever biographical details, sources, and influence were drawn upon in producing it.
Literary excellence is not dependent upon the materials of a work of art, but upon what use is made of the materials. 'This observation is_particularly pertinent in studying Shakespeare, who borrowed the plots of almost all his plays. Wherein, then, does his originality lie? Like Chaucer, Shakespeare knew all classes, types, and characters of humanity.
Neither condemning nor praising, neither concealing unflattering reality nor slighting the humorous or lovely, he looked into the heart of all humanity and wrote of what he saw with a piercing, lyrical freshness, and a deep-probing intellectual intensity which by their own stamp of excellence are peculiarly his. He has been halfway defined, almost too often, as a master in the use of words. As if one's literary excellence invariably increases in direct ratio to the size of one's vocabulary! We must remember Henry Ward bBeecher's thought, that "Words are pegs to hang ideas on." Not to deny that Shakespeare's word list is both large and pure: it is phenomenally so. But the beauty and the power of his style are produced, not by the isolated words he uses, but by his power of combining
643 SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. CANYON COOL For
YOUR SHOPPING COMFORT
Spend a few comfortable, cool shopping hours at Sears! Clean, water-washed, pollen-free air, gives you relief from hot summer days! Main or State at 8th South
SALT LAKE CITY
Joseph Wm. Taylor UTAH PIONEER Mortuary Organized 1882
Since then there have been held 134 CONFERENCES LISTEN TO KDYL SUNDAY 9:45 A. M.