[Interval by Evelyn Fjeldsted]

interval between death and resurrection is clear. The parable teaches the continuation of individual existence after death, and the relation of cause to effect between the life one leads in mortality and the state awaiting him beyond. Unprofitable Servants Jesus also taught his disciples by parable when he could thereby impress the lesson more forcibly. The apostles, realizing the whole-souled service required of them, implored the Lord, saying, "Increase our faith." On one occasion the Lord repeated to them instructions previously given: "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say LESSON DEPARTMENT unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:6).
Their faith could best be determined by their obedience and service. The Parable of the Unprofitable Servants is given in Luke 17:7-10. It teaches that those who engage in the work of the Lord should give all their time and attention to him and even that would not repay him for all he had done. The apostles were not to complain at their tasks. The best they could do would only be their duty. Ten Lepers Healed Following the lesson mentioned in the preceding paragraph, Luke alone records the miracle of the healing of the ten lepers (Luke 17:11-19). He thereby also taught a great lesson on gratitude.
Only one of the ten remembered to turn back and thank the Lord for his great blessing.
That one was a Samaritan. Truly Jesus was preparing the apostles for the great lesson that the gospel was for all who were obedient. The Pharisee and the Publican The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was spoken "unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others" (Luke 18:9-14). It was not addressed to any particular 637 class. It may be used to condemn the Pharisaic spirit of self-complacency wherever found. The Pharisee was grateful that he was better than the other in his own estimation. However, it is interesting to note that he prayed "with himself."
Such prayers do not avail much with God. The repentant publican humbly asked for forgiveness and for mercy. The Lord summed up the lesson when he said, "For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Apply the Parable of the Great Supper to our day. Why do our missionaries sometimes request applicants for baptism to wait for a while before joining the Church? 2.
What proof may be cited from the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus of the conditions hereafter? Are spirits separated in paradise? 3.
Discuss the Parable of the Unprofitable Servants as it applies to us. Are we willing to give more than is required of us in the service of the Lord? 4.
What was the sin of the Pharisee who went up to the temple to pray?
Show the danger of Latter-day Saints partaking of this spirit.
References in the Gospels Matt. 8:19, 20; 9:10-13; 12:10; 19:3- 12, 16-30; 18:12-14; 20:1-16. Mark 10:13-31; 2:15-17. Luke: 5:29-32; 9:52-56; 10:25; 14:1-35; 15:11-32; 16:1-31; | 1721-37; 18:1-14, 18-30. Shere Js Joy Evelyn Fijeldsted There is song in the wind as it flies Through the willows and trees near a stream, There are lessons in mountains and fields; There is joy in a hope and a dream. 
638 
Ussiting Seacher IT lessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3—"These Things | Have Spoken Unto You, That in Me Ye Might Have Peace" (John 16:33) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, December 6, 1949
Objective: To affirm that through conforming our lives to the teachings of Christ, we may possess peace in our souls. HRIST came to prepare men's hearts so that they, as worthy subjects, would develop characteristics of the kingdom of God. A righteous kingdom cannot be established by unrighteous subjects. It follows then that the more closely individuals conform their lives to the teachings of Christ, the more neatly are they fitted to be his subjects. If they live according to his laws they will have peace in their hearts, for his is a peaceful kingdom.
Love is the foundation of his teachings.
Faith in God and service to fellow men, justice, tolerance, and forgiveness are characteristics of the true followers of the Master. "These things I have spoken unto you," he said, "that in me ye might have peace" (John 16:33). Not all wars are waged on fields of battle. 'Turmoil as tempestuous as that of actual war can sometimes rage in human hearts, but peace that passeth understanding can be had by those who have learned the way of peace.
Never has there been a time when more people were confused and troubled and seeking for that great blessing, peace of mind. And yet how simple it would be for them to obtain it through righteous living.
They are like the youthful characters in Maeterlinck's Blue Bird, who set out from their home in search of happiness only to find, after wandering far and near, that it had been within their reach in the familiar surroundings of their own home all the time. In his book Unto the Hills, in the section titled "Peace Within and Without," Elder Richard L.
Evans has made some significant statements. He defines peace as belonging:... To an attitude of mind which leaves the windows of the soul open to all truth and the will to live in accordance with that truth....
Peace is more than mere absence of war. It is a mode of living, a state of well-being; a condition of self-control and social balance. He who has mastered self has found peace, even though there be no peace around him (Unto the Hills, page 123 ff.).
What are the spoilers of inward peace? Elder Evans answers:..
Vanity and self-love, greed, unholy ambitions, crooked thinking.... The memory of things that should never have been done; the confusion that lurks in the human mind when the line of demarkation between truth and error is obscured; the consciousness of time's passing quickly by without our having freighted it with a full measure of achievement. In short those things which LESSON DEPARTMENT destroy our peace are the things which in all times and in all ages have been forbidden to men by the Lord God and the wisdom of experience.... The price of peace is obedience—obedience to all that the 639 ages have proved, obedience to all that the Lord has commanded, and obedience to all of those finer things that men already know in their inmost hearts (Ibid., page 124 ff.). ' Work ITleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Play Clothes Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, December 13, 1949 GINCE a very large part of children's lives is spent at play, clothes for play assume an important place in their wardrobes.
Though they are quite expensive to buy, they can be made at little cost and are easy to do.
Children are vigorous at play and often careless of their apparel. We do not want them to be unduly destructive or careless. But, on the other hand, we certainly do not want to dress them in such a manner that they are too conscious of their clothes and thus hampered in their play.
Material for these garments must be appropriate to their purpose.
They should be durable and very sturdy. And they should be made of fabrics that can easily be laundered.
Play clothes should be quite comfortable for the wearer.
They should allow ample room for activity and growth. If a child's clothes restrict him or are irritating, this.
Will likely be reflected in his actions and disposition. He will show his irritation and dissatisfaction by becoming fretful or even naughty. 'Play clothes, almost more than any others, need to be made so that they are easy to put on and off. For younger children, choose the selfhelp style of garment. For older ones, be sure to allow plenty of placket room and long enough openings. Be sure that cuffs are not too tight and neck openings ample.
Durable workmanship is necessary if the child's garment is to withstand severe strain, hard wear, and laundering. The stitching should be adjusted for the fabric and the thread should match the fabric in strength.
Styles for play clothes are numerous and fabrics almost unlimited.
Denims are sold in an endless variety of colors and designs.
Some of © the heavier weights of spun rayon and cotton are ideal for this use. For the tiny tot, the coverall type of garment is easy and most satisfactory for boys and girls. As they grow older, sturdy dresses, or pedal pushers with gay shirts or jerseys, are nice for girls.
Make gay flannel or cotton print shirts for boys to wear with heavy denim or cotton cord trousers. The felled seam is generally preferable as a finish for play clothes. It 640 is strong and durable as well as flat and neat looking. It serves equally well for trousers or slacks and shirts.
Plackets should be ample in length and extra strong.
Zipper closings are always good, as are continuous bound plackets.
Either should be double stitched at the bottom.
Buttons need a reinforcement behind them.
Woven tape, patches of  material, or stay buttons on the wrong side of the garment help prevent them from pulling out.
Stitches of worked buttonholes should touch to make a firm edge and the thread should be sturdy.
Commercial gripper fasteners make an ideal closing for play clothes. 'They are easy to apply and give excellent service. ~~ ol, stov@ieume— Wee