SCENE II.

	The Tuilleries is once again the scene of
action. In a retired room a gentleman is
seaetd at a small writing table. He is alone.
Writing materials are before him and the
pen is in his hand; thought seems to over-
power him, and appears to disable him from
carrying out the purpose for which he
seated himself. Had he intended to write
a farewell to his beloved ones? Was he
going to depict the agony of his soul? Was
it his last will and testament that he de-
sired to make palpable? All is unknown;
but there he sat as one paralyzed by con-
tending emotions, the mighty spirit bowed
down, the glorious dreams of ambition dis-
pelled. The loved ones were away from
him, yet he knew that one or two—yes,
three hearts were beating true as ever—one
true even unto death, waiting only for the
one word from his lips—Come! and she
would have walked into exile with him,
rejoicing gladly. There he sat alone, en-
gulfed in the whirlpool of his fallen for-
tunes! At this moment the door is softly
opened. He starts and slightly stamps his 
foot—who dare intrude upon this, his hour
of almost despondency? A woman! Yes,
a woman still young and still beautiful, but
lines of sorrow, of bereavement, of a yearn-
ing for love, had marked that once faultless
face, and told a tale that would have filled
a volume. In a moment Napoleon (for it
was he) recognized her! She glided to-
wards him, and kneeling clasped his knees,
and for a moment could not speak. Both
were silent, but oh! 'twas a silence that
spoke louder than words; at last she spoke
just above a whisper: "Sire, forgive me, do
not call me an intruder; let me say it is a 
mission of love the most devoted. Sire, I
want to condense the language of my full
soul, that I may say as few words as possi-
ble! Allow me a few moments to express
myself." Napoleon bowed assent. "Sire,
times have changed with us; you will re-
quire means; this casket and its contents I
have hoarded as your love-token to me
when you studied to make me great and
happy. Your love and goodness to me
would alone have been my 'exceeding great
reward;' this was but the index of it. It
contains a king's ransom! I shall never
wear it more, but you shall live in my
heart forever, and the thought that through
your love I am enabled to, perhaps, assist
you, will be the day-star of memory to my
saddened heart!"
	Napoleon trembled as with a palsy, (the
Hero of France, who had restored her from
the desolation of a mighty revolution and
elevated her to the highest pinnacle of
ambition and fame—the hero of many bat-
tles) and laying his hand upon her bowed
head as she knelt before him said: "No,
my beloved Hortense, I cannot take it;
keep it in remembrance of all the sweet
associations connected with it, and above
all of my love and appreciation of you; I
shall not need it, I am a soldier, and my
wants will be few."
	Hortense had hitherto commanded her
feelings, but at this repulse, though the re-
pulse of love, the deep fountains of heart
were broken up. She arose from her kneel-

[Column 3]
ing posture, she wept as when a child—and
well it was she did, for had tears not re-
lieved her she would have sunk in uncon-
sciousness at his feet. Napoleon arose also
—the strong man needed comfort as well as
the weak, loving woman! "My Hortense,"
he spoke with difficulty, "I appreciate your
love to me, it is a sweet balm that I will
carry with me into exile. Remember this 
in every hour of your future life, that I love
and appreciate all your love and obedience
to me." "Then let me entreat you, sire,
to accept this love token from me, as I ac-
cepted it from you. Accept it, and make
me happy!"
	Napoleon "groaned in spirit." "Hortense,
you unman me; say no more, I cannot bear
it; at this most trying hour of my life!"
Hortense again sank on her knees at his
feet. "Sire, forgive me; think only of my
love and admiration of you and accept my
offering, that I may be assured of your for-
giveness." She gently forced the casket
in his hands, and clasping them in both
hers she imprinted kisses on them, arose
noiselessly and glided from the apartment.

