		PIPSEY PAPERS.—No. 10.

	Mrs. Blake’s remarks regarding the cele-
bration of “Forefathers’ Day” are highly
interesting. We had so long heard the cry
about the “women of Utah” and their cruel
and barbarous treatment, that we ought to
have supposed women in other parts of this
“Glorious Republic” were petted and hon-
ored past anything we were capable of un-
derstanding, or appreciating. As I read
and observe such matters I am led to be-
lieve that in contrasting their position with
our own, the balance shows in our favor.
The idea of a dinner or celebration of any
kind being carried out without the assist-
ance of the ladies would seem to us very
absurd, as it has not yet come within the
range of our experience. We may readily
suppose that the men of Utah are very fond
of the ladies. They prove it in private life
by their extensive relationship and their
willingness to protect and support so many
wives; in public no enjoyment is considered
complete without their presence. Even in
the celebration of the national birthday the
ladies hold a conspicuous part. In com-
memorating the first settlement of the val-
leys it is not forgotten that the women of
Utah shared the hardship of the brethren;
not only with the pioneers, but in the weari-
some march of the Mormon battalion were
the ladies in the foremost ranks. They
have so long held prominent positions in all
matters, both religious and political, that it
is no doubt quite time Uncle Sam interfered
to keep them from taking the leading
strings into their own hands.
	Her ideas regarding the purity of her
brethren seem somewhat clouded. We
hear many insinuations and accusations
made of a like nature, which leads us to
suppose that the ladies of the East have
not unbounded faith in the chastity of their
husbands, or of mankind in general. Per-
haps experience and observation serve to
strengthen their ideas. It is different with
us, we have the fullest confidence in the fi-
delity of our “liege lords,” and of all our
brethren; our knowledge of their lives both
in public and private strengthen our opin-
ions.
	Provo.					MARY.


A WESTERN editor, in response to sub-
scribers who grumble that the paper is in-
tolerably damp, says it is "because there is
so much due on it."


