MISCELLANEOUS.

	Miss Laura Caillard, whose melancholy
and mysterious death is creating so great a
sensation in Wiltshire, is a relation of Lord
Beaconsfield, for her mother was the grand-
mother of Mr. George Basevi, of Brighton,
the Premier's uncle. Her father is the
country-court judge in Wiltshire, and resid-


es in the pleasant village of Wingfield on
the Frome.

	It will make some middle-aged people
feel very old to hear that the Princess Roy-
al, who was born within their remem-
brance, has already become a grandmoth-
er. through her daughter, the Heredit-
ary Princess of Saxe-Meiningen, her
Majesty the Queen is a great-
grandmother before she is sixty. Up
to this time no Queen of England has
ever lived to see her great-grandchildren;
but her Majesty may now reasonably hope
to be a great-great-grandmother and to see
her grandchildren's grandchildren.—Ex

	THE death of the Princess Alice has been
felt and deplored at Berlin even more than
in London, and the details of her illness
are still the one absorbing topic of conver-
sation in every class of society. Great dis-
satisfaction is expressed in the highest
diplomatic circles at the supineness of her
medical attendants, and Sir. William Jen-
ner is loudly blamed for not having insist-
ed on her immediate removal, at all haz-
ards, from the infected air of Darmstadt,
when it was evidently her only chance of
life. His experience of the disease in Eng-
land made him suggest this course; but he
suffered himself to be overruled by his Ger-
man colleagues, who were afraid, forsooth,
of the invalid catching cold! It was proved
last year at Uppingham that change of air
is almost a specific cure for diphtheria; for
when the complaint broke out in the school
every single case which was locally treated
ended in death whilst every boy who was
removed to his own home recovered, with-
out exception. Removal in the last stage
of prostration is, of course, a forlorn hope;
but it succeeds so often that the Princess's
physicians will never be forgiven for their
cowardice in not trying the experiment.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace.  Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
