BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The sun shone gloriously on the Parisian
Capitol, the birds sang joyously, bands of
music welcomed in the auspicious morning.
Notre Dame had its grand entrance thrown
open to admit the elite of France in a 
few hours—its altars decked with bouquets
of orange blossoms and other emblematical
flowers. The Tuilleries was alive with
human beings, that being the centre for the 
company to assemble. What was the event
of the day that had so excited that grand
city? The beautiful Hortense de Beauhar-
nais, the only daughter of the Empress Jo-
sephine, and the equally beloved adopted
child of Napoleon, Emporer of France, was
on that day to unite her destiny with Louis
Bonaparte, the Emperor's brother. This
she did in obedience to the wishes of her
mother and her adopted father. Before
this alliance was proposed to her she had
given her heart to a young officer of the
Court, and, singular enough, Louis had also
loved devotedly, believing he should make
the lady his wife; but the Throne had to
be strengthened by every available alliance,
and therefore this young couple had to be
laid upon the altar of sacrifice! and for their
obedience they were made King and Queen
of Holland.
	Hortense was reclining in her beautiful
and gorgeous dressing-rooms, listless and
unambitious. She had surveyed the mag-
nificent trousseau, the costly and elegant
presents, with which the adjoining room
was full. All the Court, all the elite of 
France had sent their tokens of love and 
fealty—but among them all there was not
one that bore the presentation of the Em-
peror! For the moment she felt hurt, but the 
second thought was "It will come, he will
not forget me."
	Her ladies and dressers stood around, at-
tiring her in the faultless bridal robe that
lay around. The Valenciennces lace dress
and costly bridal veil were ready to adorn
her person—all but the veil was now com-
plete, when a soft, gentle tap was heard up-
on the door. Who could it be at such a 
moment? The door was opened by a dresser
and the first lady in attendance approached
to receive the visitor. "The Emperor!"
she announced. Yes, it was he himself in
his robes of state! He held in his hand a 
casket of pure gold, and on the top of the
lid the monogram of Hortense, surmounted
by the imperial crown in diamonds of the
purest water—its worth? the ransom of a 
kingdom! He approached Hortense, and 
she arose to meet him with a smile. He
viewed her with intense love and admira-
tion, and imprinting a kiss upon her beau-
tiful forehead presented the love token he
had brought. The ladies had retired a lit-
tle, and now the Emperor waved them to
approach, calling upon the first lady in
waiting to open the casket and place the
carcanet upon the lovely neck of the Bride-
[-]lect! It was formed of diamonds of the
purest water, and was of priceless value;
the workmanship of the whole was exqui-
site and unique! When this was done
the bridal veil was thrown over her, and it
fell in all its elegance to the termination of
her dress. At that moment, she looked
more than mortal! she looked indeed a 
Queen, for she was beautiful, both in form
and feature! Napolean viewed her for a
moment with moistened eyes, for he loved
her sincerely, and then retired as he had

[Column 2]
entered, the lady acting the "Lord Cham-
berlain."
	In this act Napoleon displayed one of his 
grandest characteristics—that of being
original, being himself. He did not sum-
mon his grand chamberlain to bring his
golden salver on which to present his bridal
offering—no! his own hand carried it, and 
in person he presented it, as a father to his
child.

