OF THE LADIES OF HYRUM.

	Whereas, We the women of the Church
of Jesus Chrsst of Latter-day Saints have
been misrepresented to the nations by
Christian Missionary Ladies dwelling in
our midst, in regard to our most holy re-
ligion. We do hereby declare most solemn-
ly our true sentiments.

	Resolved; that we the women of Hyrum
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints earnestly endorse the
sentiments of the ladies of Salt Lake, St.
George and other places that have reported
through the EXPONENT and with them
claim the privilege to practice the princi-
ples of our holy religion, and God being
our helper we will sustain and co-operate
with our husbands, fathers and sons in
obeying every principle of the gospel we
have embraced.

	Resolved; that we solemnly avow our
full faith in the doctrine of Celestial Mar-
riage established by the command of our-
Heavenly Father and knowing his promis-
es to the faithful, we endorse it as one of
the most important principles of our holy
religion and claim the right to put it in
practice.

	Resolved; that we will obey the com-
mands of God and leave the result with
him. That we protest against the enact-
ment of any law that deprives American
citizens, whether male or female of any con-
stitutional rights.

	Resolved; that we take this opportunity
to tender our thanks to the ladies of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association,
who have bravely defended our cause in
the halls of Congress, and that we appre-
ciate the labor of our own lady delegates
who have braved the world in defence of
our religion.

	Resolved; that we respectfully suggest
that those ladies opposed to our institutions
keep their sympathy for the poor unfortu-
nate outcast women and fatherless children
in the cities of the world, as we by the
help of God can take care of ourselves, and
don't need their assistance. We wish to
say that although we are late we are never-
theless in earnest and wish to have a
voice with the rest of our sisters.

		C. Liljenquist President,
		N. M. Neilsen,	} Secretaries.
		E. Wight,		}


MRS LYNN LINTON is engaged on a new
book that is shortly to be published. The
subject is the influence of clergy on women,
and the story is a fight between a husband
and a ritualistic cleagyman for influence
over the wife of the former.—EX.


A NEW paper edited by a woman is issued
at Louisville Kentucky by Mrs. H.E. Housh;
it contains reports of the work of women and
supports the idea that work is as honorable
for women as for men. Her son a young
man of seventeen years does her printing.
It is very neatly executed on fine paper.


