UTAH COUNTY SILK ASSOCIATION.

	A general meeting of the Utah County Silk
Association was held in Provo Feb. 28th, 1879.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	A report of the finances showed that there
had been $197.69 1/2 subscribed by the citizens of
Utah County in aid of the silk enterprise since
August 30th, 1878; one silk reel purchased and
about 50 pounds of cocoons.
	Prest. M. Hindley invited the sisters present
to speak their feelings in regard to raising silk
and to give a report of their doings in their 
various wards.
	Several sisters spoke of the increase of the
silk interest in the settlements. The people are
planting mulberry trees and preparing to raise
silk, believing that after a little experience it
will be as easy to raise silk as to set a hen, or
to dry fruit.
	It is the intention of the Association to buy
up all the cocoons in th[-] county (if possible)
and get them reeled before this year's silk is
ready, as it is considered best to have them
worked up while fresh.
	Sisters Zina D. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y.
Williams, and S. M. Kimball were present, and
each spoke a short time, encouraging the sisters
to raise silk and make this branch of home
manufacture successful. Advised them to color
the silk, to make handkerchiefs, mitts, stock-
ings, neck ties, veils, sewing silk, etc.
	Were pleased to see specimens of home in-
dustry and effort being made in practical seri-
culture; would like to see the sisters wearing
home-made silk dresses. Children can help in
the work. Plant the trees as near the house as 
possible, and keep them cropped down so as to
be handy for feeding.
	Pres. M. Hindley expressed her thankfulness
for the good meeting and valuable instruction.
Meeting adjourned until next Quarterly Con-
ference.
	M. HINDLEY, President,
	EMMA FEATAERSTONE, Secretary.


AS GEORGE ELIOT (Mrs. Lewes) has nev-
er had a photograph taken the great major-
ity of her admirers are compelled to view
her only through pen and ink sketches.
This "counterfeit presentment" is given by
a recent visitor: "She is a woman who
must have passed her fiftieth year. Her
hair is dark brown, and has none of those
silver threads one might expect where the
burden of half a century of years is added to
incessant labor, and experience full of deso-
lation. She is not at all handsome; her face
is long and very pale, with a small sensitive
mouth, eyes dreamy, introspective, and sad
always. Her hair is worn low over her
intellectual forehead, and her slender figure
has no robust energy about it. George
Eliot's is the energy of the mind, not of
physical power. She is one of the greatest
living conversationalists. She is one of the
most accomplished amateur pianists in
England, and a fine linguist, and seems to
know as much about the healing art as of
history and philosophy. What the witty
Mrs. French said of Madame de Stael—that
she is consolingly ugly—applies to George
Eliot; but her plain features are made
beautiful by her expression. She composes
slowly and methodically, not more than
sixty lines a day; and report says that when
she has completed a book her nervous ex-
haustion is such that her husband used to
take her abroad at once to recruit her fail-
ing health. While writing, she is most
scrupulously arranged as to surroundings
and person. She is not only a wonderful
author, but a clever housewife, and, her
home life is perfect in all its details."—The
American Home.


