HOME AFFAIRS. 
	ON the 6th of the present month the Forty-
Ninth Annual Conference will be held in this
city. No doubt the fine weather will make it
a large and pleasant one. On Saturday, April
5th, will be the Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion, and the Sisters are invited to at-
tend. We hope there will not be so many
empty benches as we saw there one year ago.
	WE WOULD say to our sisters who have sent
in reports of meetings held in the different
Wards of this city and elsewhere, that we have
published them as our space would permit and
shall continue to do so. We devote one page
always, and often more than one to R. S. Re-
ports. It is necessary to publish these reports
so that all may understand what is being done
in other organizations, and thus work in har-
mony. We intended mentioning the several re-
ports we have on hand at this present date, but
find them too numerous. This proves that the
sisters are doing a vast amount of work through
these organizations. We shall be glad to receive
original articles or essays for publication from
the sisters; we intend that the paper be mostly
filled with the writings of the sisters, but a few
selections from other papers are necessary, in
order to understand what women are doing
elsewhere. We designed to publish in this is-
sue Mrs. Stanton's opening address in Lincoln
Hall, at the N. W. S. A. Convention, Jan. 9.,
but it is crowded out this time.
	A QUARTERLY Conference of the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 21 and 22,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne and her counselors pre-
siding. Friday morning: after the opening
exercises, which always consist of singing and
prayer, the Secretary read the report of the
Annual meeting held in December and the
Quarterly reports from the various branches of
the Society in the County. There were also
verbal reports from some of the societies. Fri-
day afternoon was occupied in hearing the
Presidents from the country settlements, many
of them giving excellent instruction, and each
and all reflecting credit upon themselves and
the Society they represented. Pres. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each gave a short ad-
dress, speaking of the present condition of so-
ciety and the great need of reform, and other
subjects suited to the occasion.
	Saturday morning: Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presided. The meeting was devoted to hearing
from the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Associations of this Stake of Zion. The Secre-
tary read the minutes of the meeting in De-
cember, and all the reports which had been re-
ceived. Several organizations had not sent in
a written report. After the reports were read,


Pres. Eliza R. Snow nominated Mrs. Louie
Felt and Mrs. Clara Young Conrad as counsel-
ors to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. The vote in their favor was
unanimous. Pres. Freeze and Counselors Felt
and Conrad each made a few remarks, express-
ing their good desires and asking the faith of
the sisters to sustain them in this important
home-mission. Saturday afternoon: Mrs. M
I. Horne presided. Much good instruction was
given by the sisters who spoke. Pres. E. R.
Snow addressed the sisters on many subjects
pertaining to our lives here and hereafter. She
specially exhorted mothers to have their chil-
dren attend the Primary Associations, and said
that there they would be instructed in the
ways of the Lord. She alluded to home indus-
tries and other necessary labors which devolve
upon the Saints, The storing of grain was
another dnty woman had been called upon to
perform, which seemed a heavy responsibility,
and she felt great caution and wisdom wasneeded in the work. Coun. Zina D. Young
gave an excellent exhortation to mothers and
daughters, advocated the sericulture, and
urged the societies to set out mulberry trees as
a beginning. Alluded to the words of the late
President Brigham Young in the old Bowery,
the first year after the settlement here, when
he said the elements here were full of the ma-
terial necessary to the production of silk.
Pres. Horne made a few choice remarks, in
which she urged the sisters to take the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. Mrs. E. Bull, who has re-
cently returned from a visit to Europe, gave a 
graphic description of the places she visited in
England, and faithfully entreated the sisters
who had friends or relatives there desirous of
emigrating to help them out. Mrs. M. A.
House, of Grantsville, gave a short account of
the Relief Society work in Tooele Co., and
made other interesting remarks. Elder Joseph
E. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the sisters,
and dwelt eloquently upon the good works of 
women in this and other ages of the world.
Altogether this woman's Conference surpasses
any we have held hitherto. Much good coun-
sel has been given and the Spirit of God was in
the midst of the assembly. The meeting was
closed by singing part of the hymn "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." The closing
prayer was offered by Elder J. E. Taylor, and
the Conference was adjourned to June 20 and
21. We trust that the Secretaries will be 
prompt in handing in reports early. The Sec-
retary, Mrs. E. Howard, has not yet prepared
for publication the Stake Statistical and Fi-
nancial report.


