POLYGAMY CRUSADE.

	There has been so much talk from press,
and pulpit,and from ladies opposite of prin-
ciples, that I thought I would say a few words
to them on the subject of Polygamy. Now
these ladies and the clergy profess to be
Christians, and I wonder that they oppose
that which is so clearly set forth in the
New Testament as this subject is. Chris-
tians signify that they are the followers of
Christ; if they are they cannot consistently
denounce Polygamy. "And if ye be
Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed and
heirs, according to the promise. (Galatians,
iii, 29.) The promise to Abraham was that
he should have a numerous posterity. In
the 12th chap. of Genesis, 2 verse it reads:
"And I will make of thee a great nation,
and I will bless thee and make thy name
great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I
will bless them that bless thee and curse
him that curseth thee; and in thee shall all
families of the earth be blessed."
	22d chap., 17th and 18th verses, the Lord
says: "In blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the
stars of the heavens and as the sand which
is upon the sea shore, and thy seed shall
possess the gate of his enemies; and in thy
seed shall all the nations of the earth be
blessed, because thou hast obeyed my
voice." The same promise is given to Isaac,
and also to Jacob. We find no promise of
this kind made to any one but Abraham and
his seed. Now to Abraham and his seed
were the promises made; He saith not to
seeds, as of many, but as one. "And to
thy seed, which is Christ." (Gal., iii, 16.)
27th verse—"For as many of you as have
been baptized into Christ, have put on
Christ." 29th verse—"And if ye be Christ's
then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs ac-
cording to the promise." Then you see
you are adopted (through being baptized
into Christ) right into the family of a po-

[Column 2]

lygamist; and Jesus Christ himself honored
the family of that polygamist, Abraham.
Paul says: "For verily He took not on Him
the nature of an angels, but He took on Him
the seed of Abraham." (Hebrews, ii, 16.)
Abraham is called the father of the faithful
and the friend of God; those appellations
themselves are treasures.
	Seeing that Jesus took not on Him the
nature of angel, but the seed of Abraham,
we find Him teaching repentance and bap-
tism, which ordinance adopts them into
the family of Abraham, for as many as are
baptized into Christ have put on Christ, and
if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's
seed, &c. "Know ye, therefore, that they
which are of faith, the same are the chil-
dren of Abraham." "And the Scripture,
foreseeing that God would justify the heath-
en through faith, preached before the
Gospel unto Abraham, saying: In thee
shall all nations of the earth be blessed. So
they which be of faith are blessed with
faithful Abraham." (Gal., iii, 7, 8, 9.) "That
the blessings of Abraham might come upon
the Gentiles, through Jesus Christ." (14th
verse.) Now, if we are the followers of
Christ we cannot discard our polygamic fa-
thers. Isaiah says, 14th chap., 8 v., "But
thou, Israel, art my servant Jacob, whom I
have chosen, the seed of Abraham my
friend. If we have no connection with
these polygamous families, we must indeed
be outcasts, for there is no promise made to
any one else. Now, I would ask those LA-
DIES who oppose us if they are willing to
fight against this principle, seeing that in
doing so they fight against Christ? Con-
sider well before you decide; do not be led
to persecute those who are honestly and
truly fulfilling the command of God, and
have been adopted into the family of Abra-
ham, who, God says, "obeyed my voice and
kept my charge, my commandments, my
statutes and my laws." (Gen., xxvi, 5.)
There is a great deal more might be told
from the New Testament than has been
used in these few remarks. How is it pos-
sible that men who profess to preach the
Gospel are so blind that they cannot see
that Jesus and his Apostles sanctioned po
lygamy.
		KANAB.
	March 17, 1879.


PROVOKING CHIROGRAPHY.— Professor
S——, whose loss is deeply lamented in the
scholastic circles of New York, was at one
time a highly valued contributor to the
journal of which he afterward took charge,
and being one day introduced to its editor,
was greeted with every expression of cor-
diality and respect. It was a great pleasure
to meet one whose learning and services
had been, etc., etc. "But, professor," add-
ed the editor, turning upon him and seiz-
ing his hand with sudden earnestness, and
with solemnity in his face, "I hope you
pray for my printers!"
	The professor replied that he was very
happy to offer his prayers in behalf of any
who were in need of them; but what was
the special urgency in this case? "Ah!"
answered the editor, shaking his head im-
pressively, "if you could but hear them
swear when they get to work on your man-
uscript!"—Harper's Magazine for January.


A LADY in Hungary owns the distaff
used by Marie Antoinette during her im-
prisonment. It is of wood and ivory inlaid
with silver, and still is wound with the
flax left upon it by the ill-fated queen on
the eve of her execution.


