MASS MEETING IN FILLMORE.

	The ladies of Millard County Stake met
in Mass Meeting, for the purpose of pro-
testing against the Anti-Polygamy Crusade.
	Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt was elected Chair-
man, Mary M. Lyman Secretary, and Me-
lissa Brown Assistant Secretary. Choir
sang, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion."
Prayer by Adelia A. Kimball. Sang, "Let
those who would be Saints indeed."
	Mrs. B. M. Pratt: "My dear sisters and
friends, the Anti-Polygamy ladies of Salt
Lake City have entered upon a Crusade
against Plural Marriage, and have addressed
themselves to the Christian women and
clergy of the United States, also to the 
Senate and House of Representatives, to
make effective the Anti-Polygamy Law of
1862, setting before them the great crime
of Polygamy, falsely misrepresenting and
wishing to deprive us of our rights as citi-
zens, wives, mothers and children. And
shall we sit idly down and not vindicate our
cause? God forbid! Let us lift up our
voices with one accord in behalf of this
great principle which our Heavenly Father
has revealed for the exaltation of the hu-
man family. I know by the revelations of
His Holy Spirit that He has given unto me
that this principle is true and emanated 
from Him; and that which He has esta-
blished He is able to preserve. The Gov-
ernment of the United States is great and
powerful, but He Who rules above is greater,
and in Him we trust. This principle is
holy and from God, and though all nations
should legislate against it, yet He will pre-
serve and uphold it and bring to naught all
their schemes and plans. We will not fear
what man can do, but walk humbly before
our God, and in the end gain eternal life,
which is the greatest of all blessings."
	Very spirited speeches were given by
the following ladies: Delilah King Olsen,
Martha Bennett, Sarah L. Partridge, Adelia
Kimball, Eliza Lyman, Angeline Hinckley,
Helen Callister, Abigail Stephens, Henrietta
Powell, Emma J. Bennett, Ann J. Bennett,
Huldah Teeples; A. J. Pratt, Jean Hol-
brook, Sarah Davis, Emily Ralph, Elizabeth
Thompson, Catherine Wilcox, Lemira Rob.
inson, R. T. Stephenson, Bird Robison,
Caroline Lyman, Eliza Wicker, Mary A.
McBride, Minnie Anderson, Columbia Mc-
Bride, Ann Ashman, Lizzie Partridge and
Emily Crane.
	Report of Mass Meetings held in Scipio
and Deseret Wards were then read. Song,
"The trumpet of our foeman."
	The preamble and resolutions which were
adopted by the Ladies of Salt Lake City
were read, with the following additional
resolution:
	Resolved, That we will not fellowship or
associate with those in our own community
who have given aid and support to the acts
and doings of the Gentile ladies of Salt
Lake City, by circulating and signing the
petition against Polygamy.
	Singing, "Guide us, O Thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction by Pres. I. M. Hinck-
ley.
		M. M. LYMAN,	} Secretaries.
