DEAR AUNT EM:

	I had resolved to defer this letter until
arriving at Jacksonville, the end of my trip
down the St. Johns river, but here at St.
Augustine my interest is at its zenith, and 
fearing that it may fall during the latter
part of my trip, I shall begin with the in-
cidents and scenery in which I have been
rapt intervening between Jacksonville
and St. Augustine. We embarked on the 
steamer "Pastime" for a three days' trip
up the St. John's River. It merits more
the name of an arm of the sea than that of
a river, as it is effected by the tide at its
very source. Its flow is almost impercepti-
ble, and in width it varies from one-half to
three or four miles. We left Jacksonville
in the beautiful afternoon of last Wednes-
day. Nothing of note occurred on that
afternoon sail, but we enjoyed immensely
the grandeur of the scenery through which
the river gently bends its winding way.
On each bank the lofty pines, with a net-
work of shrubbery clinging at their feet,
afford an almost impenetrable barrier to the
unknown interior, and increase two-fold
their mass in the reflection they cast upon
the glassy surface of the water. Here and
there along the sides the "cracker's" ax has
paved the foundation of his little home, and 
his well-planned orange grove, with its
yellow fruit, gives a cheerful change to the
would-be sameness of the vegetation.
	In one of the river bends we pass the
"modest mansion" of Mrs. H. B. Stowe—a
little house, almost hidden in its adjacent
orange grove. We travel till dark, but
the moon arising as the sun goes down
scarcely makes distinction of the night and 
day.
	In the evening we land at some remote
hotel, whose patronage and style Fifth Ave-
nue might covet. Here the Cuban plays his
festive harp, the traveling traps are cast
aside, and dress suits donned, and sun-
browned faces mingle in the "hop."
	Night passed and breakfast over, the
pleasure-seekers crowd the boat again. "A
change comes over" the shape of things,

[Column 2]
and where the lofty pine was yesterday
now the spreading cypress shades its poison-
ous limbs. Glistening rifles shine upon the
steamer's deck, ugly alligators sleep along
the shore, and as the sun grows warm the
sport begins, and excitement rages as the
bullets fly, and only ceases when the river
gently draws its banks beyond the rifles'
range, and unconscious fades into a little
lake. Now vegetation takes a different
form, and the palmetto, rearing on its white
and polished trunk, shades the water with
its umbrella top. From these great flocks
of curious birds and reptiles send out their
hideous screams and take the rifle from the
sleeping alligators. Still the vegetation
changes, and the magnolia and centaury
plants claim their different beds in the gar-
den of flowers. Night comes on; another
"hop," and we return from whence we
came, and along the banks count the with-
ering prey of yesterday. Now we leave
the boat, and an hour's ride on a rickety
train brings us to still more rickety St. Au-
gustine. And here, the oldest cradle of
the Union, in which the conquering Span-
iard, Juan Ponce de Leon, in his search for
the fountain of youth, laid his lovely head,
before the Pilgrim Fathers peopled Ply-
mouth Point, is what I hope will interest
you most.
	Here is where the consumptive Northerner,
who but a week ago muffled in his ulster
and arctics at home, now lounges in his
duster and slippers. Here is where the
now free negro finds a home in the moul-
dering prison walls of what was once a 
Spanish Fort. In St. Augustine a few hotels
and winter residences are the only signs
that mark the changes of centuries. 'Tis
verging on to three hundred years since the 
foundation of the old Fort was laid. I
visited it to-day, and as I saw it I will de-
scribe it.
	The material of which it is built seems to
be hewn out of fish shells which are formed
into solids by the tide along the shore. A
battery of this substance faces the sea on
three sides forming the outer wall. This
wall surrounds a second wall built in a cir-
cle, with little star-like corners all around.
These two walls form a protection to the
inner fort. Between the inner wall and
the sides of the fort is a trench about
twenty-five feet deep and thirty feet wide,
which seems to have been filled with water.
The sides of the fort tower above the outer
walls thirty or forty feet, and the whole
mass presents the appearance of a crum-
bling ruin. To enter the fort the trench
mentioned is crossed by a bridge; on the en-
trance is the Spanish "coat of arms," almost
faded away by time, and under it is inscribed,
almost too dim to read, "Ferdinando Sexto,"
which marks the structure's age. The in-
terior is a complete catacomb of dungeons.
Each dungeon seems to be carved into the
shelly substance, and connects with its ad-
jacent hole by a door, on whose massive
hinges and iron bolts cling the rotten rem-
nants of decaying wood. Here and there,
sticking out from the solid floor, or wall, a
rusty cannon shows its terrible mouth, and
the oval surface of what seems to have been
a cannon ball forms a stumbling block in 
the floor. No ray of light can penetrate
these dungeons, and the disclosure of 1835
tells what they once held. The wall of one
fell in, and tumbled down with it some iron
cages in which were found human bones.
Other secrets of their history are known, and
which I am promised to be informed of be-
fore leaving. After leaving the dungeons
we ascend the walls on what were once
steps, but now smooth stone, worn by con-
stant passage, and thence on to the lookout,

[Column 3]
which command a view of the whole town,
and shows up streets that one can jump
across, and houses built so close to each other
that now the crumbling ruins join together.
All are made of these shells carved out in
the shape and size of our adobies, and called
coquina. The whole town covers now an
area of about half a mile, and has covered
the same area for three hundred years, and
possibly will never change till it gradually
vanishes by the wear of time. Such is St.
Augustine and a trip up the St. John's 
river.
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	I could write nothing more that would
be of interest to you, except possibly a trip
through the Southern States, or a descrip-
tion of quaint old Charleston, but having
enjoyed my St. John's trip and view of St.
Augustine, I could not forbear describing it
to you, and I hope our tastes do not so
widely differ as to make it unpleasing to
you.	*	*	*
	I am yours very truly,
								JOE.


[For the EXPONENT.
