SCENE III.

	And now, my readers, let us in imagina-
tion transport ourselves for a few moments
to that bleak and barren spot, that God-
forsaken island springing up in the broad
Atlantic, St. Helena. I blush for England,
that amid her numerous strongholds—her
Gibralters, and others of like fortifications
—she could select no place for a fallen man,
who in dire necessity cast himself into her
hands, than such a prison as St. Helena,
and such a jailer as Sir Hudson Lowe! I
know of no public character in history that
I execrate as I do the vile, the low, the ig-
norant, the execrable Sir Hudson Lowe; I
would say strike off his spurs of knight-
hood, he is utterly unworthy of them! But
he has gone to his ancestors, and the Lord
says, "I will repay."
	On this dreadful island did Napoleon drag
out the remaining years of his eventful life,
made wretched by the very man who had
it in his power to make the path of life
tolerable at any rate, but who took advan-
tage of that power to afflict, to annoy, to
intrude upon the man whose name the na-
tions had bowed to, and who, if in his
mighty course could be found some evil,
did a vast, a mighty amount of good.
	In idea we enter this forlorn, barn-like
habitation; in idea we find ourselves in a
room old, barren even of common comforts,
the walls stuffed with old tapestry, or any-
thing to keep out the cold, bleak winds; on
one side is a camp bed with faded white
silk curtains, and an ample military cloak
covers the bed, beneath which lies a man
in the last stage of a long, wearying, wear-
ing disease, brought on and accelerated by
the cruel treatment he had received. A
devoted friend, devoted even unto death,
sits beside the bed, watching if in any way
he may give ease to the sufferer, or receive
any commands he may desire to make.
This friend, General Montholon, was one
of the noble five generals who went into
voluntary exile with him, whom they had
delighted to serve under. Life is ebbing
fast away; the feverish dream of earthly
life will soon be over! The mind of the
sufferer wanders—again he is leading on his
men; again he gives the charge at the head
of his forces! Now all is still, he sleeps for
a moment. He wakes calm and collected;
he looks around and calls "Montholon."
He answers, "Sire, I am here, what can I
do for you?" "Monthonlon, I am passing
away; give me your hand; thou, with Les
Cases and others, have been true and faith


ful to me, even unto death, and I bless you
all for your fidelity. The dream of earthly
life is over for me; you all have voluntarily
shared my exile, God will reward you.
When I am gone you will return home, and
your last days will be your best days; re-
member me. Montholon, a few more
words: when death closes my eyes slide
your hand under my pillow; there you will
find a diamond necklace! it has quite a his-
tory and is of immense value. Keep it
safely in your own possession until you re-
turn to France; then seek out Hortense,
the Ex-Queen of Holland, and deliver it
yourself into her own hands. Tell her that,
like Jacob, I took those stones for my pillow,
and they were to me a Talisman, given by
love and holiest feelings of human nature.
Even these stones will rise up and speak to
her of me. Montholon, I have no more
to say. Give me both your hands, and God
be with you.” 

