NOBLE WORK FOR WOMEN.

	There has never been a reform of any sort in
the history of the world but has been met
with opposition. All new discoveries, of what-
ever name or nature, all new truths, no matter
what divine power they may possess, or what
elements of reform they may embody, or en-
gender, are sure to meet a storm of ridicule and
disputation. Every movement which makes
any advance, every new ray of light that
comes into the intellectual world, and irradi-
ates the darkness which has heretofore en-
shrouded the mind, is met with an opposing in-
fluence which it must have the courage to
overcome. Peradventure it is faint as a rush-
light, and the strong atmosphere of concentra-
ted ages snuffs it out, but the enthusiasm of
the individual, or individuals, which inspired
and made it glow even faintly rekindles it, and
by and by, after repeated effort, it gathers
sufficient vital force and power to shed its rays
abroad. A few who possess a latent spark of
the love of truth and light may gradually be-
come enlightened, and thus little by little the
reform, which grows out of new truths finding
place in the bosom of mankind, forces itself
upon society, and one by one the iron bars
which hedge in the old-time customs wear
away, and the revolution of a new age and the
inventions of its people are understood and
appreciated.
	There has never been any breaking away of
the silken cord which binds woman to the pro-
prieties and delicacies of that life which in
times gone by every mother marked out for her
daughter, saying, "Thus far shalt thou go and
no farther;" but some great alarm has been
raised, and the cry is heard, "stepping out of
her sphere," and evil prophecies and the de-
struction of home and total disregard of pro-
priety and womanliness are apprehended by
those who cannot bear to see the removal of
any old land-mark, but who desire to protect
women in their weakness and keep them
within the pale marked out by mankind in
past ages, ere they had so far advanced as to
appreciate or comprehend woman's ability, or
strength of soul. This is a new dispensation;
men should remember this fact, and women
too, and that this new dispensation is for wo-
man as well as man. Then, when men ad-
vance with rapid strides do they expect women
to stand still? If woman bears the noble souls
who are to reform and regenerate the earth,
she herself must possess, in a large degree, this
redeeming and regenerating power and influ-
ence to impart it to her posterity.
	Mechanism has supplied, in a wonderful de-
gree facilities for the farmer, the tradesman,
the man of business; has it done nothing to
favor woman? That would be unjust indeed—
but it is not so. The generation of women a
hundred years ago must not only perform ma-

[Column 2]
ternal and household duties, but must spin,
weave, dye, and afterwards knit and sew, make
and mend, and many other things that are not
now expected, or necessary. New inventions
have been made that lighten in an immense
degree the labor of this kind, once wholly per-
formed by hand. Man's work is thus lessened,
woman's housewifely duties are proportionate;
men have more time to devote to science and
literature, what then of women? Have they
not talents and gifts of a high order to develop?
Who will say us nay? Why then should a
limit be set to their culture, or a boundary to
their education? And above all else, why
should women themselves seek to draw tighter
the silken cord, because perchance not even a
rushlight of higher intelligence has entered
into their life, so shaded by the towering oak
to which they cling, that until the darkness of
the whole forest is illuminated they are unable
to discern, that here and there are lamps burn-
ing, with oil in them, but believe woman's
highest prerogative is to "learn of her husband
at home;" or perchance another class live in
constant fear of Mrs. Grundy. Is there not a
wide field of labor which it is scarcely possible
for men to comprehend, even if they had the
inclination? God has endowed woman with
faculties and instincts, with the right of con-
science inherent in her soul. No one doubts
the propriety of woman's being an active
member in the Church, in the Sunday School
and all benevolent organizations, but she must
step so far and no farther; and the moment she
does move a few steps in advance of her prede-
cessors she becomes the subject of ridicule, or
persecution; and for fear of this, many women
in all parts of the enlightened world remain
inactive and indifferent, and clog the wheels
of true progress. But women should awaken
to the duties and responsibilities which de-
volve upon them now, and not be afraid of be-
ing ridiculed or sneered at, or called "over-
religious." Goldsmith says in his "Citizen of
the World," "Persecution only serves to propa-
gate new religions; they acquire fresh vigor
beneath the executioner and the axe, and like
some vivacious insects, multiply by dissec-
tion."
	In the awakening of the sisters to duty there
seems to be hope for greater and higher culture
and progress in the church. If men and wo-
men will only work in harmony with each
other, and this must be done or no good can
possibly be accomplished. The brethren, the
Elders, those who proclaim the Gospel at home
and abroad, have done faithfully their work,
but their hands will be strengthened by the
help of women-workers, and their forces dou-
bled, and the husband who has upon his shoul-
ders heavy burdens to bear pertaining to the
duties of his high and holy calling, will not
need to spend his precious time to teach the
wife at home, but she herself will be qualified
to stand side by side with him, and from the
love of the work in which both are mutually
interested, they will bless and sustain each
other, and extend the helping hand to the
poor, the sorrowing and the tempted.
	Heretofore the laborers have been too few,
and it was not considered proper for woman to
teach her own sex, except in the schoolroom,
or in that which pertained to household work
and the care of children. But time, in its on-
ward march, has brought with it wondrous
changes, and some noble women have felt
impressed with a strong sense of duty and
"the still small voice" within which speaks to
all that they had a mission to fulfill, a work to
perform, and with the sweet memories of
childhood rising up before them, of a mother
who could touch their hearts as with a holy

[Column 3]
touch, have realized the woman-power that
might perhaps reach poor human hearts, with
a pathos and tenderness, and even an inspira-
tion, and minister, giving faith and hope to
those who yearn for help and encouragement.
	It is well known that Christian women "feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, shelter the
homeless;" why, then, is she not also fit to
minister spiritual food? The Prophet Joseph
said when he organized the sisters in the Re-
lief Society that their mission was not only to
relieve the wants of the poor, but to save souls.
And there are sisters living now, who have
heard him speak of the power and blessing
that should attend the sisters who were hum-
ble and faithful in these societies. Humility
is necessary; the Savior is the example for all,
He descended below all things, that He might
fulfill all righteousness. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


