WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Without discussing the vexed question
of "what is woman's work and what is her
sphere," we will assume that it is her duty
and privilege to do whatever she can that
will promote the advancement and eleva-
tion of her own sex. We particularly be-
lieve her life work is most specially needed
and appropriate among women and chil-
dren. It is not within the capacity of our
minds to become familiar with every sci-
ence which may be of service in the course
of a lifetime, so that it becomes necessary
that some shall give particular atteniton
to one branch and some to another, each
constituting a factor of the whole. As the
preservation of life and health is of so much
importance to us all, a general knowledge
of our own organization cannot fail to be a
source of satisfaction as well as an actual
benefit to every one. If medical knowledge
to a certain degree was a part of every
daughter's education, she would be far bet-
ter fitted to fulfill her future destiny as
wife and mother, and she would know
more about the infant on her bosom than
that it is a little form of throbbing clay and
that she loves it; and there might be fewer
little mounds in the "City of the Dead."
It is only the few comparatively whose
taste it is, to make a life study of the hu-
man system, and the diseases and acci-
dents peculiar thereto; but with intelli-
gence, reason, integrity of heart and the
pure motive to do good with their might
wherever they go, this factor of the com-
munity is as invaluable and necessary as
any other. It requires long and close ap-
plication to the standard text works of this
branch of science to lay the necessary
ground-work foundation upon which to
build future observations and experience.
	It is neither safe not right for any one
[Column 2]

with a smattering knowledge picked up
promiscously to undertake the practice of
medicine, and go forth to hold the balance
of life and death in their unskillful hands,
too often unnecessarily resulting in the des-
olation of hearts and homes. I do not by
any means depreciate sound practical ex-
perience, for it is of great value and in
newly settled countries it is often an im-
perative duty for those having the nerve
and natural ability, to reach forth and as-
sist suffering humanity; but whoever finds
it her lot to fill such a responsible and im-
portant position in a community, should
feel it an incumbent duty to thoroughly
prepare herself at her earliest opportunity
for such an important work. Some may
say if we live right we will need no doc-
tors which is theoretically true, but where
is there one who can live in this fallen es-
tate without hygienically or physically
making a mistake or mishap sometime.
Nature herself often makes most grevious
errors entirely incapable of spontaneous or
natural rectification requiring the most
cultivated skill to meet the emergency.
	Our reason, the greatest gift of God to
man was given us for cultivation and our
life here on earth presents a series of oppor-
tunities of transforming circumstances into
eternal knowledge. Progress is the key-
stone of heavenly thought and plan, and for
an individual to live and die without the
world being the better for it, comes short
of the object of their existence. True knowl-
edge no matter of what science or art is
given man of God, and every acquisition
which advances us one step should only
broaden our reason and strengthen our be-
lief (which is simply physical knowledge.)
in the existence of God, and of our unbound-
ed obligations to him. True medical knowl-
edge can never corrode the soul or unfit us
for usefulness in any way. It is said in Holy
Writ that "faith without works is dead,"
and it is a matter of correct observation
that good intelligent common sense-work
is very frequently a most excellent subor-
dinate to faith.
	In every growing community there seems
to soon develop the need of a hospital de-
voted more especially to the interest of wo-
men and children, and this is now being
felt among us. It would be a place where
those, especially from a distance, needing
surgical or special medical attention could
come and have every care from physcians
and nurses. Such an Institution would
also afford most excellent opportunities for
a class of students to gain a partial knowl-
edge of medicine. (A college being requir-
ed for a thorough education) and also there
would be facilities for establishing a train-
ing school for nurses, than which there is
no greater need at the present time. Could
not such an institution be organized and
carried on under the auspices of the Latter-
day Saint ladies of Utah? It may be said
"it will require so much money"—It will
certainly require a considerable sum, but
an enterprise with such far reaching benefits
and one in which all can have individual
interests upon the co-operative plan,certain-
ly can, by the united effort of so large a
community as ours, combine the numerous
small efforts into one efficient whole. To
accomplish this it only needs that a com-
pany of active managers take the matter
in hand, and lay it before the people. It
is to be hoped that every Latter-day Saint
woman in Utah and adjacent settlements
will think on this subject, and use her in-
fluence in its behalf, that at no distant day
the result may prove a living success, and
inasmuch as the interests of the Latter-
day Saint men and women are ever mu-

[Column 3]

tual, it is also hoped that the brethren will
extend their influence and material aid in
promoting this much-needed and laudable
enterprise. In the meantime our only al-
ternative is for classes to form, and be taught
according to our best circumstances until
better facilities can be furnished.
			ROMANIA B. Pratt, M. D.


