		A PLEA FOR PRODIGALS.

	Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.—
Jesus' words.

	And though I bestow all my goods to feed the POOR, and
though I give my body to be burned and have not Charity
it profiteth me nothing.—St. Paul.

Out in the wilderness, out in the night,
By misfortune or misery mystified quite;
From one evil fleeing and turning aside
To evils still greater, unseen and untried;
Dangers behind them, before and below—
How shall the erring know which way to go?

There are serpents too subtle to warn ere they sting,
There are serpents that charm ere upon you they spring;
The wise may escape, but the simple and young
Too oft are betrayed by the flatterer's tongue;
Evil designers that speak you so fair,
More to be dreaded than howling wolves are.
You may arm and prepare for a clamorous foe,
But these silent ones aim to destroy at a blow;
Like the treacherous tiger, remorseless to slay—
Creeping and crouching to pounce on their prey—
The tender and trusting and feeble they seek,
'Tis the nature of brutes to destroy what is weak.
If oppressor, or tempter, assaileth the strong,
There is power, there is force to resist what is wrong.
Since Eve in the garden did Satan believe,
He knows very well who and how to deceive.
For an innoc[-]nt woman an apple sufficed;
But the world and its treasures was offered to Christ;
Who else would have measured the enemy's chain,
Or refused with a word such a princely domain?
All have not the wisdom and courage combined
To say to the tempter "Hence, get thee behind."
Temptations that move not the prosperous few
Oft try others poorer, more honest and true;
Full many would stumble who never did fall.
If they ever were troubled and tempted at all;
And many would err that in goodness delight,
If they trusted no God to direct them aright;
The soul like the body would oft be crushed down,
If He looked not in mercy instead of a frown.

Lo! in the edge of the desert a gleam!
Look up! thou lost one, a light it doth seem;
Pray! that the light may be steady and clear;
Pray! that thy duty may plainly appear.
Oh! there is One watching over thee now
Whose pity extendeth to all such as thou,
Trust Him to guide thee, nor fear aught amiss,
The tiger's fierce growl, or the serpent's low hiss;
Courage, press forward thy troubles shall end,
And thou shalt be safe in the house of a friend.

Open the door, for the night it is dreary;
Open the door for the weak and the weary;
Open it quickly and welcome them in—
Many are sinned against more than they sin.
"Judge not," said Jesus, be merciful too,
Lest ye be judged by one greater than you.
Hold the light downward, the lost silver seek,
Then call in the neighbors, the kind and the meek,
And rejoice that "'tis found," for our Father above
Declared, through a being of infinite love,
That more joy was felt by the angels divine
O'er a lost one restored than o'er ninety and nine
So screened from the storm in a sheltering fold,
Safe even in darkness from dangers untold,
Without a temptation to stray from the track,
Too faithful, or favor'd, to want to turn back.

Who never was tried, or betrayed with a snare,
Or lost in the night of oppression and care,
Or felt what the erring or tempted endure,
Should censure but lightly; compassion doth cure.
Enough, that a merciful God gives command
To extend to the penitent freely the hand.
Shall we, Pharisee-like, dare to boastingly say,
"We thank Thee, O Lord, we are better than they?"

