EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Why do the Heathen rage, and the peo-
ple imagine a vain thing? The kings of
the earth set themselves, and the rulers
take counsel together, against the Lord, and
against his anointed saying, "Let us break
their bands asunder, and cast away their
cords from us." Psalms, ii 1, 2, 3.
	I am reminded of this saying of David's,
when I hear and also read, the acts of Con-
gress (the bills before that body) for the
destruction of this people, they seem very
fearful that the prophets words will be lit-
erally fulfilled. (I wonder if they read the
Bible) They are doing all they can to ful-
fill the decrees of Jehovah, whether they
know it or not.
	The Jews said, in the day of Jesus, that
if we let him alone, all men will believe in
him, and the Romans shall come and take
away our place and nation. John, xi 43.
	In 1830 this church was organized; it
numbered very few members, but it re-
ceived the same attention then, from the
Clergy, as it now does from the Govern-
ment, of the nation. They wished to crush
it in its infancy, it was then said of us,
"these Mormons are preaching to the Indi-
ans, they are in opposition to the govern-
ment, they vote to one interest, they are
going to protect their homes and their
families, we will drive them, we will exter-
minate them.
	In 1844 this feeling of enmity had spread
through Missouri and into the State of Ill-
inois. They took the prophets of God, Jo-
seph and Hyrum Smith, and did unto them
that which they had long desired, they
murdered them while under the protection
of the Governor of the State of Illinois; and
that same Governor, Thomas Ford, in a long
message to the House of Representatives,
screened the murderers. (one of his plea's
reads thus:)
	"But the great cause of popular fury was,
that the Mormons at several preceeding
elections had cast their votes as a unit." (As
if American citizens are not free to vote as
they choose). Unity is a crime when con-
nected with religion, according to the views
of Governor Ford and others of his class,
and will bring violence and mobocracy.
These enemies of the Mormons understand
that unity is strength, and they say if we
can divide them, bring discord among
them, follow Balaams advice, send an army
among them of young men, to seduce their
wives and daughters, and corrupt them, we
can overthrow them, and then we can feast
ourselves, as wolves on the carcasses of
the slain.
	But they know not the way of the Al-
mighty. The wicked shall not always
triumph. The Lord will come out of his
hiding place, and vex the nations in his
sore displeasure, when their cup of iniquity
is full. The Lord has spoken it by the
mouth of his holy prophets.
	But now here is another thing that must
be attended to (this polygamy) O. S. Holis-
ter Esq. in a question to President Taylor,
inquired, was not the great object, of the
institsution of polygamy to rapidly increase
the numbers of adherents to the chruch?

[Column 2]
	What could have induced that question?
	Is he and Congress, afraid that this peo-
ple will increase so fast that they out-num-
ber their enemies?
	Pharaoh was afraid of the Israelites, in
the same way and he commanded all the
male children born among the Israelites, to
be put to death. Exodus i I6: But he did
not thwart the purposes of God, though he
put into execution this cruel law.
	Herod, when the wise men were seeking
for the child Jesus endeavored by crafti-
ness, to learn where he was that he might
kill him. But an angel warned Joseph in
a dream, to take the young child and his
mother, and flee into Egypt. And then
Herod * * slew all male children that
were in Bethlehem, and in all the coast
therof from two years old and under. *
Matthew ii 16.
	How determined he was to bring to
naught, the purposes of God, how signally
he failed, and what a miserable death he
died. Acts xii 23.
	This is the work of God, and man with
all his devices cannot overthrow it.
