[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | May | Issue: 20 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The annual Conference of the Relief Society
was held April 5, 1892, in the Assembly Hall in
this city, at 7 p. m. President Zina D. H. Young

[Column 2]
presiding; her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were present, also Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne,
Cor. Sec'y. E. B. Wells and Ass't. Sec. Romania
B. Pratt were on the stand. The Presidents of
the Relief Society of the several Stakes of Zion
were seated in the upper stand; the house was
well filled with ladies, only a few gentlemen be-
ing present.
   Meeting opened with singing,"O, say what is
truth &c." Prayer was offered by President B.
W. Smith, singing, "Do what is right &c."
   Pres. Z. D. H. Young made a very telling
speech that stirred the hearts of the audience;
she referred in glowing terms to the General Con-
ference of the Church and the grand occasion to
be celebrated on the following day, the laying of
the capstone of the magnificent Temple in this
City; thought we had great reason to rejoice in
the blessings vouchsafed to us; especially in the
gems of truth dispensed unto us, in the teachings
of the servants of God throughout the Confer-
ence. Pres. Young thanked the sisters of the
various stakes and branches for their response to
the Jubilee celebration, in carrying out her wishes
and instruction, and expressed herself eloquently
in regard to the greatness of the occasion, its be-
ing celebrated on the two continents, and on the
Islands of the sea, extending all around the
world as it were; urged the sisters to prepare
themselves to do the work well, to strive for more
intelligence, and to set their mark high and en-
deavor to live up to this high standard; and not
only for themselves but the young women and
children of tender years, "O, how my heart is
drawn out to them."
   Paes. Young then expressed herself in refer-
ence to the Society building halls and places of
worship of their own in all the localities where
there were organizations as soon as possible;
thought perhaps it might sometimes be practicable
to buy places cheap of those who were moving
away, or changing their property, and have this
property and such buildings owned by the Relief
Society and be controlled by them so that they
might have a place to meet and so that the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary might meet there too. Pres.
Young said she did not wish to find fault with
anything that had been done, but felt we must
own some property and buildings of our own and
teach our young people to be self-sustaining.
   Pres. Young requested Sister E. B. Wells to
read some remarks of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo upon tnis sub-
ject; Sister Wells read:
   "Pres. Joseph Smith donated a City lot to the
Society for the purpose of making homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were out of employment, which he proposed deed-
ing to the Treasurer and her successors in office,
for the use of the Society. He also donated the
frame of a house, and made arrangements for it
to be moved on the aforesaid lot, for a commence-
ment of the establishment."
   "But this benevolent and judicious project with
many others which were designed for the ameliora-
tion of the condition of suffering humanity, was
blasted in the bud by the blighting hand of re-
ligious persecution, and through which the once
beautiful City of Nauvoo became a desolation,
and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico."
   Pres. Young then spoke strongly upon union
and the power it would give us, also upon the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings that would
follow those who would keep that commandment, 
and of many of the teachings of the Prophet
Joseph; said it was his advice that every virtuous
woman in the Church should join the Relief
Society, also referred to sayings of President
Brigham Young upon this subject.
   Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she had been
deeply impressed with the exercises of the Con-
ference, and thought there were some lessons for

[Column 3]
women;" one of the speakers had said he honored
the First Presidency of the Church, the Twelve
Apostles, the priesthood of God, and we my
sisters she said must h onor woman,—and by the 
way,I take this opportunity of inviting you to write
and preserve a memorial of this Relief Society, of
the work which has been done, and of those who
live now, for this generation is fast passing away,
and in this way we shall have a record of our 
work; there will be a committee to do this and 
no one person will decide on this work," made
other suggestions upon this subject.
   Pres. Jane S. Richards, felt like a little child,
and thought we all felt like little children looking
up to our Father and asking Him for the blessing
that we want. The Lord is just as willing to
bless us his daughters as his sons; how we feel
when we are about our work, the Holy Spirit
resting upon us, if we feel our labors are hard or
our burdens heavy, and we have the good spirit
with us it makes them easy and light. We should
remember those that have started this work, and
they are fast passing away, Sister Presendia who
has just left us, and President Young and Sister
Eliza and others, I often feel that Sister Eliza
and Pres. Young are with us, and we could feel
their presence near, and if we could have our eyes
touched to see them, we should know—and the 
angels are near us, and yet we cannot see with
our natural eyes.
   This work of compiling the Jubilee should be
a good labor and an easy one and not hard to ac-
complish with the means there is to do it and the
EXPONENT we want to sustain our own paper, it
is all we have except the YoungWoman'sJournal;
the price of subscription is so little now it is al-
most given away, and we should all of us take it
have it in our homes and read it; the sisters who
stay at home, who cannot get to the meetings of
the Society, get them to take it, it will do them
good; all have not the opportunity to get to the
meetings, there are many hindrances in a family,
let us be very forgiving, if we are forgiving He
has promised us forgiveness; visit the sisters who
stay at home, it will do them good, I didn't used
to go much, I stayed at home my circumstances
required it, there are those not able to get out,
kind acts and kind things bring their reward.
   "We have been having a good time in this Con-
ference, a time of union, the greatest Conference
we ever had,—another capstone is to be laid to-
morrow; the Prince and power of the air has
been determined to give us storms and mud, but
we shall overcome nevertheless. The mothers
need blessing, when the brother spoke of sustain-
ing the priesthood I thought why didn't he go a
little further and bless the mothers in Israel and
the Relief Society which is a very important or-
ganization according to the words of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith, which he gave them by honoring
women in the commencement of the work, they
need prayers, need faith, need wisdom in the 
multiplicity of their cares and labors.
   "Buildings that has been alluded to by Sister
Young is important to the Relief Society, Joseph
the Prophet set the example, Pres. B. Young
counseled us to build houses and granaries, places
of our own to hold meetings in; there are not
many branches but can accomplish this if they
undertake it and persevere; how much better you
will feel when you have your own places of wor-
ship and to meet in; the habit of drinking that is 
growing in our midst and tempting the young is
something deplorable, there is a great deal in the 
word of wisdom besides drinking tea, so many
things that need attention; then we have home
industries that lack for patronage we should make
an exertion to sustain these things, and don't
neglect your prayers,commit all to the care of the
Almighty, live in peace with all people, don't let
the sun go down on your wrath, do not commit
sin when we are angry, we are living for the
kingdom of heaven, may we be true and faithful.


[Column 1]
I rejoice in the Lord .’’Sister Richards made some
remarks upon the rights and privileges of the
sisters and their duty in regard to administering
to the sick and rebuking disease and prayed the 
peace and blessing of God to rest upon the con-
gregation.
	Pres. M. I. Horne rejoiced to see so many
noble women that were interested in the work of
the Relief Society, felt to bless them, those that
had come from a distance hoped they would take
home the spirit of the Conference and diffuse it
among those with whom they were associated,
that the good seed might be sown among the 
sisters who were not able to attend the Confer-
ence; she felt interested in the subject of home-
industries, thought we should exert ourselves to
be more self-sustaining; that we were living in an
important day, when the prophecies of the 
Scriptures and of Joseph were being fulfilled and 
we needed great wisdom; the teachers have a re-
sponsible position, and needed to be prayerful
and have the spirit of the Lord; spoke eloquently
and briefly upon many subjects; the increase of 
wickedness in our midst, the need to watch over
our children and young people, the governing
power and restraining influences, and gave much
good advice to the sisters and the young people.
	Pres. B. W. Smith, spoke of her desire that the
young women should come forward and prepare
themselves to take the places of the older sisters
when they pass away. Said there are 23 Stakes 
that have not paid into the Deseret Hospital fund
we should take this into consideration and not
fail in this; it is a duty we have to perform; to
have a place for the sick and afflicted; we must 
do our part and keep it up; and the EXPONENT
we must have by us; it is a necessity to the Relief
Society; there are many good papers, but the 
EXPONENT is my choice; it contains our record
and we’ll be proud of it some day. I feel as 
Sister Zina said, we ought to have two or three
days for our meetings; we are a host to do good,
I am proud of my sisters and of their  labors. I 
want to do all the good I can and as little harm,
I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
Jubilee celebration its greatness, the immense
country over which it extended, the importance
of the organization, the great results already at-
tained and the promises for the future, the ad-
vancement made by women in all lands, the
prejudices being removed, and the grand oppor-
tunities for improvement, and gave some explana-
tions in reference to the history to be compiled,
and also concerning the storing of grain by wo-
men against a day of need.
	Pres. Young spoke in reference to the history
to be prepared of the Relief Society and nomi-
nated the following Committee whose names were 
submitted and voted upon by the assembly, Sarah
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells, Lula Greene Richards,
Romania B. Pratt, Annie Wells Cannon, Augusta
J. Crocheron.
	Sister Zina said the officers and teachers should
be women of God, we expect our sisters to be
brave in the future as they have been in the past,
humble obedience to the principles of the Gospel
makes us better wives and better mothers and 
better prepared to enter into the presence of God;
as soon as we boast we separate the link that
binds us; like breaking the kite string, there is 
nothing to guide it and it falls or floats away, may
we be preserved and our children with all that
the Lord has given us we have everything to
make us happy.
	Assistant Secretary R. B. Pratt read the totals
of the Relief Society report for the last six months
after which there were a few words of counsel
and comfort from Sister Jane S. Richards, and S.
M. Kimball presented the names of the officers of
the Central Board to be voted upon.
	Zina D. H. Young, President, Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors, Sarah M

[Column 2]
Kimball, Secretary, Romania B. Pratt, Assistant
Secretary, M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer, and 
Emmeline B. Wells, Cor. Sec’y.
	Pres. Young made a few closing remarks,
speaking in the kindliest manner to the sisters
encouraging them to persevere in their labors of
love and to exercise charity and cultivate the
spirit of humility and blest them with a mother’s
blessing, after which Conference was adjourned
until next October, singing Doxology and bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister R. B. Pratt.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

