[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | May | Issue: 20 | Title: A TALENTED ENGLISH WOMAN. | Author: Unknown]

 A TALENTED ENGLISH WOMAN.

	The visit of Miss Florence Balgarnie to our
City was quite a pleasant event, yet the ladies
who met her in Washington last year, and also
those who have heard her praises sounded, and
have read her speeches, were greatly disappointed
in not hearing her speak in public. We had
hoped that when she came we should hear her in
the large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, or in the
Assembly Hall, but her stay was so brief, that it
was quite impossible to advertise a lecture, and
it would have been placing her at a disadvantage
to have urged it so hurriedly. Her voice is clear
as a sweet-toned bell and her manner in speaking
is simply perfect, so natural and unaffected. Her
language is eloquent and she speaks without notes
with the greatest ease and freedom. Altogether
she is a charming, young woman, and we cannot
help regretting that the Salt Lake people had not
the privilege of hearing her.
	It is true that we knew she was coming having
been informed by letter, but were not notified of
the exact time so as to be sufficiently sure, to ad-
vertise a lecture, besides not having her consent
which would have been positively essential.
	Miss Balgarnie speaks for the Liberal Associa-
tions, she styles herself a thorough-going Liberal
and her sympathies are all with the wage-earning
women of all countries, but her work lies with the
working-women of England,Scotland and Ireland.
She tells some very pathetic tales of their condi-
tion and how these Associations are helping them
to better themselves.
	Miss Balgarnie represented at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington as Fraternal Del-
egate, Associations numbering nearly ninety
thousand women, amongst these were the British
Woman’s Temperance Association of which Lady
Henry Somerset is the honored President. The
Women's Peace and Arbitration Society, The
Women’s Liberal Federation of Great Britain
aud Woman Suffrage Associations.
	The morning after Miss Balgarnie’s arrival in
the City,(she came in on a late train), she came to
this office, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards called a
few minutes later and we three ladies went out
together, first making a call at the Deseret News
Office where in the editor’s sanctum the lady was
introduced to a trio of these distinguished gentle-
man C. W. Penrose, John Nicholson and W. J.
Sjodahl, she chatted with Elders Penrose and
Nicholson a few minutes pleasantly and then we
went to the Temple grounds, where she was
shown the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall etc,and
we began our climb to the top of the East tower
of the Temple. The fine view of the city from
the roof and windows of this magnificent structure
she thoroughly enjoyed, as she is an ardent ad-
mirer of the beautiful in nature. From the Temple
we repaired to the residence of Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie where a delicious luncheon was
in waiting, also one or two other ladies, who had
heard of Miss Balgarnie’s arrival and were
anxious to meet her socially; among them Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the W. S. A. of
Utah. After the lunch a barouche was at the
door, and the party of five drove with her about
town, called at the offices of President Wilford
Woodruff where the lady was introduced to the

[Column 2]

President and also to his Counselor Joseph F.
Smith, and others; she seemed to enjoy the few
moments conversation with the venerable Presi-
dent, and made some inquiries afterwards con-
cerning his age and appeared to think as every 
one must that he is a wonderfully well-preserved
man for his years. The party of fivethen dined at
the Templeton.
	We all talked and Miss Balgarnie had told us
of her tour in America and Canada, and we felt
more and more that her stay was much too brief
for her entertaining conversation.
	Mrs. Beatie opened her parlors for a informal 
reception in honor of Miss Balgarnie in the
evening, but it was impossible to send out many
even verbal invitations on such short notice, yet
a few interesting people assembled in the evening
and the lady conversed in an easy and graceful
way though no set speeches were made. She was
presented with a very handsome basket of choice 
flowers by one of the ladies of the party and
several little gifts of books from both ladies and
gentlemen.
	Among the most notable at the reception were
Apostle Franklin D. Richards and his wife Jane
S. Richards, his daughter Mrs. Nellie Webber,
Mrs. Carrie E. Dye, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
whom Miss Balgarnie had met in London and
passed a pleasant hour with in 1890, Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Miss
Margery Dwyer, Mr. Dwyer, Mr. W. B. Dougall, 
and a few others; just before nine o’clock the
carriage came to take the lady away, her good
bye was hurriedly said and accompanied by two
or three of the ladies she took in the Salt Lake
theatre on her way to the train where an opera
company were giving a popular performance, and
then away to the Denver depot where we waited
to see her safe on board and off for New York
via Denver. Miss Balgarnie expected to sail on 
the S. S. Britanica on the 20th of April for her
home in London. It is our impression that the
lady is very much pleased with her visit to
America as a whole. The Yosemite valley she
considered worth almost risking one’s life
to visit. She spent considerable time traveling
in Canada as well, and had visited Niagara Falls 
several times. She was anxious to know concern-
ing the early pioneers to the valley realizing that
the privations and hardships must have been
great. Her visit was a real pleasure for she is a 
very charming person and especially so in con-
versation, though she is something of a radical in
opinions,she sustains the position she takes logi-
cally.
	We shall be very glad to hear of her safe ar-
rival in England, and are interested in her work
which is broad and thorough; and hope to see
what she tells the people in her public speeches
of her experience in America and her visit to
Utah.


