[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 689 | Special Feature | "To Them of the Last Wagon" (Fausett) Floyd | E. Breinholt]
["To Them of the Last Wagon" (Fausett) Floyd E. Breinholt]

Three factors which broaden our concepts and also lead to 

689 September 1967

 greater enjoyment of art are: first, a knowledge of what the artist is saying— the content or the message; second, an understanding of how he did it—his technique, his materials, and procedure; third, something about the artist himself—who he was. Let us look at these three—what, how, and who in relation to this painting. Just as a portrait painter is obliged to reproduce in his painting a certain likeness to the sitter, so an artist who illustrates an event is bound somewhat by the event itself. Near the close of Utah's Centennial Year, 1947, during his conference address, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said in words what the artist Lynn Fausett has created in paint—"So through the dust and dirt, dirt and dust, during the long hours, the longer days—that grew into weeks and then into months they crept along till, passing down through its portals, the valley welcomed them to rest and home." As we so justly honor the leaders of the great trek West, so, too, those who followed—even to the last wagon—were equally worthy of praise because of their obedience to the directions of the Lord. Look at the painting and read the first four verses of Edward L. Hart's poem "To Utah." The churchman, the poet, and the artist tell the same story, each in his own way. When Brother Fausett was asked to describe how this painting came to be, he submitted the following statement: "The painting, "To Them of the Last Wagon,' was commissioned by President Clark's son-in-law, Ivor Sharp, for a gift on President Clark's eightieth birthday. The occasion was celebrated and the painting presented at a large dinner at Camp Williams, where many of President Clark's friends and associates were guests. The painting was presented by one of his granddaughters. I felt highly honored not only to be selected as the artist to paint this story, but also to speak. I tried to explain how our artists give an added living reality to our history, beliefs, and testimonies, just as the old masters did to the Bible and early Christian story. I said that I was convinced that while criticizing the truth they projected, but still giving them artistic freedom, our Latter-day Saint artists could evolve an art tradition that could do for our Church what the old masters did for the early Christian Church, if only we would use them and give them opportunities." Prior to painting a picture, an artist likely finds it necessary to do some careful research so that the subject matter shown will be authentic. These sketches, then, could be arranged and composed according to the sensitivity of the artist in harmony with the understanding of the elements and principles of design and his thorough knowledge of his craft. Mr. Fausett generally uses what is often referred to as "'the old master technique" of painting. On a toned panel, usually a warm brown, the darks are painted in a darker brown. When dry, white pigment is used to build up the lights, and care is taken to scumble some overall areas. At this stage, the painting appears as though one were viewing a monochrome picture through a white veil. It is allowed to dry, and then transparent colors in medium are glazed over it. The objects still maintain their form, but now have color. Successive glazes may be repeated over the same areas after preceding glazes dry. Dark details are then painted and, finally, highlights are placed in with opaque pigment. This kind of painting usually results in a smooth, glossy surface and the light, being reflected through the successive layers of glaze, gives a certain luminosity which cannot be attained in any other way. This luminous quality is often lost to a great degree in reproduction. Lynn Fausett, of Salt Lake City, is a Westerner, a native of Price, Utah, where he became acquainted at first hand with the subject matter found in many of his paintings and murals. He went East to study at the Art Students League of New York and later became president of that institution. He did numerous murals in the East and the West. Among his best known are the ones in the Chrysler Building in New York and at the "This Is the Place" monument in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Fausett, perhaps his best critic, designs and finishes the beautiful frames which enhance his easel paintings.


690