[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Some Literary Hyde]
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde "Without faith it is impossible to please him."—Heb. 11:6. Story-telling. Long, long before there was a written language and before the development of picture-writing, the story was used to educate people in the history of the race and to establish principles of conduct.
Stories were sung by bards, minstrels, and poets.
Many centuries later, Christ used them to develop character in his followers, and today they are our method of interpreting life to our group if we are teachers and to our families if we are parents.
Children need stories to help them build ideals, and adults need them to renew the ideals built up in youth and to arouse enthusiasm for greater usefulness.
Faith is a most important principle in life.
Faith is too important in conduct to be disregarded. Let us never be so unwise as to feel that it makes no difference whether we believe or not.
Faith is not an arbitrary requirement, it is fundamental. All important things have been done by faith, and the world could not go on without it.
Emerson referred to it when he said, "Hitch your wagon to a star."
Carlyle said, "A man lives by believing something, not by debating and arguing about many things." The Apostle Paul, ridiculed as he was, answered, "I believe and therefore speak." Martin Luther said, "Here stand I. I cannot do otherwise. God help me."
Joan of Arc, the maid who was almost perfect in a profligate and wicked age, won freedom Tos oldest art in the world is for her country because of her faith in the voices that directed her movements. But faith is not merely being credulous. It is seeing and then daring to do. In religious education a most important principle is faith—faith in God. It is vitality in religion; it made martyrs of the apostles of Christ; it made it possible for early Mormon leaders to endure great persecutions; it is the thing that brings peace to men who have been misunderstood and who have met disappointment.
Faith dignifies a man, for it "makes him a co-worker with the forces that keep the stars in their orbits and hold the earth to its course round the sun." To have permanence of character we must have a perfect ideal, and the only perfect ideal is Christ. We speak of building up Christian character.
This involves -establishing a knowledge of God and his laws and creating a reverential attitude toward things religious.
This can best be done at story-telling time.
Whether we be children or adults, at this time our minds are open to impressions. The emotions may easily be swayed toward good or bad. For fireside reading we suggest A Lesson of Faith,* which is suitable for all ages. It might be a fatal mistake to say to a skeptical son, "Have faith," but he will never forget the truth of this story. For very young children *A Lesson of Faith, by Mrs. Gatty, is taken from In the Child's World, by Emily Poulson, and is used by permission of A, Flanagan Company. 392 A Lesson of Faith has the qualities of a good story.
Caterpillars and butterflies are familiar objects to them. The story has interest because the characters talk, and it is full of action. To adults the story is an allegory. We see in it the person who has discovered a truth which he is  trying to tell to others. We see the skeptic who cannot believe anything he has not seen himself, and we have the doubting world which says, "She is quite out of her head."
Read it and think for yourself upon the statement, "If this part is true, it must all be true." A Lesson of Faith (Nature Parable) Mrs. Gatty MILD, green Caterpillar was one day strolling about on a cabbage leaf, when there settled beside her a beautiful Butterfly. The Butterfly fluttered her wings feebly and seemed very ill. "T feel very strange and dizzy," said she, addressing the Caterpillar, "and I am sure that I have but a little while to live. But I have just laid some butterfly eggs on this cab.
