[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Millennial Star Lund]

In order to effect the continuance of the work, we have associated Elder Ward, of Bum- THE "MILLENNIAL STAR" ley, as joint editor and correspondent with our various agents, to whom all communications may be addressed for the purchase of any works published by us, at the "Star" office, 36
Chapel-street, Liverpool. We trust that our exertions in future will keep pace with the increasing light and growing energy of the work of God, until the gleamings of our humble "Star" be lost in the blaze of Millennial glory, and to enable 367 our experience as Editors; yet we have been enabled by the help of God, and by the aid of those few, to send the following volume to the world, as a flaming arrow of truth through the startling nations. It has penetrated the thick darkness, and the mists. Of error have fled before it. But we aim not only to benefit the present age, but to hand down to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness DURHAM HOUSE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (For many years the home of the Star) us to be instrumental in this great purpose, we sincerely desire an interest in the prayers of all saints. Of the many sterling editors of the Star, four have been presidents of the Church. President Heber J.
Grant is the fourth president who was editor of the Star.
Seven became members of the First Presidency, and seventy-six apostles have also been editors of this paper. The following, almost prophetic, paragraph is copied from the preface of the first volume of the Star: "TRUTHS would you teach, to save a sinking land, All fear,—few aid you, and few understand." —Pope. The above is strictly true in regard to is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth, amid the wreck of error, and the crush of thrones, that ages to come may read with astonishment and admiration the history and progress of that mighty revolution which has now commenced, and which will then have been consummated, to the joy and satisfaction of the whole earth.
Through the past century of the existence of the Star it has faithfully, fearlessly and truthfully chronicled events pertaining to the Church and the world. It has defended the Truth, praised where praise was due, informed the misinformed and surely has, in its 101 volumes, left "to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth" for ages to come.