Jo Mlozart Bernice Ames With the first clear note I am lost, bird-free, to harmony And wing the blue air In fluent phrases of flight. With your fragile sandpiper steps On the smooth drifted beach of sound Running toward coolness and shadow And back into light, You feather the moment. With your fingers pacing the deep base clef And your thoughts racing at treble pitch, You release a miracle of song Bright to the steady pulse of the evening, A moon-glistened branch for the spirit's return. Recipes Strom the West Spanish-American ITlisston Submitted by McNone N. Perry CuILes RELLENOS 12 green California chiles 7 tbs. Flour 6 eggs 1 tbs. Oil (or melted shortening ) 1 lb. Longhorn cheese Separate eggs. Beat whites till very stiff. Beat yolks till thick. Add 1 tbs. Oil to yolks. Fold into whites. Add 7 tbs. Flour and mix well. Salt to taste. Prepare chiles by roasting them on a hot griddle. Wrap in damp cloth and let steam for 10 minutes. Peel, using long strokes. Remove stems and seeds, cut pepper lengthwise. Fill with cheese. Dip in egg batter, using a large spoon, then drop into hot oil or fat and fry brown on both sides. Serve with sauce if desired. SALSA POR CHILES RELLENOS (Sauce for Chiles Rellenos) 4 tbs. Fat 3 tbs. Flour 1 c. Tomato sauce dash of garlic about 1 c. Of water _ Salt and pepper 1 small onion Melt fat, add onions, and cook. Add flour and brown slightly. Add tomato sauce and water. Add dash of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. Pour sauce over stuffed chiles when ready to serve. This sauce is delicious over fried eggs for breakfast, or eggs may be poached in this sauce. GUACAMOLE 1 large clove garlic 1 minced small onion 1 tsp. Fat "4 tsp. Pepper 2 green hot chiles that have been roasted and peeled. (See above recipe for roasting green chiles) Crush mixture with fork. Now add: 1 tbs. Lemon juice 1 tsp. Olive oil. Serve as a dip or with corn chips. CARNE DE PUERCO CON CHILE VERDE (Pork with Green Chile) 1 Ib. Pork steak (cut in 1 inch cubes) (which have been roasted and peeled. 3 tbs. Flour See above recipe. ) 3 long green chiles ' ¢. Whole tomatoes 2 large onions, minced Fry pork until slightly brown. Remove excessive fat. Add onions and cook. Add chiles which have been cut up. Add garlic and flour. Let flour brown slightly. Add tomatoes and enough water to make slightly thick gravy. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cover and let simmer for about 15 minutes. Serves about 4 or 5 persons. Page 598