Records of Service S each new Relief Society season approaches, there appears before every woman member of the Church a new horizon for her individual development and a new opportunity for her growth through unselfish service. In almost every community in the Church today, however, there are numbers of women who are not: active members of Relief Society and whose time is not fully occupied with other Church duties. While Relief Society needs the support of all Church women, these inactive women need Relief Society even more. They need the satisfaction that comes to one who helps the less fortunate; they need the knowledge which comes from gospel study and discussion; they sorely need the close companionship of Latter-day Saint women who are constantly growing through a continual giving of self. Nor should women wait until their children ate grown before affiliating with the Society. If each girl in the Church would become active in Relief Society as a bride, her married life would be enriched, and she would carry into her everyday living an understanding and a spirit which would aid her in establishing and maintaining a home true to Latter-day Saint principles. This mortal existence is a time of probation, a time of testing, and, once the shades of this life are drawn, there is no returning to add to one's accomplishments. There Page 598 will be time, however, for regrets over wasted hours. 'There will be time for heartaches over misdeeds or omitted good deeds. There will be time to weigh the blessings which might have come from service in Relief Society against social functions or other activities. She who preferred to stand alone here, asking no help and offering none, may stand 'alone there, a benefactor to no one. Her earthly record will be closed. Some records will look thin and tattered, soiled and smudged. Others' records will reveal a bright, brave page here and there, fading into an indolent scrawl. There will be some records, however, well-bound and filled with pages of indelible beauty glowing with the small, daily acts of helpfulness and kindness, radiating a spirit of love written in unselfish and tireless devotion to the Church. Add to these pages of service for others, the greatest chapter of all for a woman an immortal accounting of true motherhood and that woman will have made an everlasting record of righteousness, one in which she may rejoice in the times to come. For, from service given beyond and above one's own affairs, will come an added, rich reward. May each woman in the Church determine, this coming season, to write a record of imperishable beauty, and encourage her sisters around her to do the same.. M. C. S. Notes to the field.