Ward Relief Society Conferences, November 3, 1946 CONTINUING the plan first adopted in 1942 for auxiliaries to hold special meetings and annual conferences on fast Sunday evenings, the Relief Society has again been assigned the evening of fast day in November. Fast day in November this year will occur November 2, and the General Board recommends that this evening be used for the anual ward Relief Society conference.
Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore arrange with their respective bishops for holding meetings on the evening of fast day in November. This is a most favorable Sunday on which to hold the ward Relief Society Conference.
It is recommended:
1. That each ward conference be attended by a representative of the stake board who should be present at both the officers' meeting and the general session.
2. That each conference consist of two meetings:
a. An officers' meeting to be attended by the ward executive officers, special workers and class leaders, the ward bishop or his representative, and the visiting stake board member.
b. A general session for all Relief Society members and for the general membership of the ward.
The purposes of the officers' meeting are to discuss problems confronting the ward Relief Society; and to provide opportunity for the stake board member to evaluate the condition of the ward Society; and to advise, instruct, and stimulate the ward officers. In order to accomplish the purposes of the meeting, some stakes prepare a questionnaire or present and discuss data from the last annual report. At least one hour should be allowed for this meeting and, in some instances, a longer period may be required. The time for holding the officers' meeting is optional with wards, but should be at a time convenient for the visiting stake board member and bishop. For example, this meeting may be held immediately preceding the general session, as heretofore suggested, the previous evening, or at some other time convenient for the bishop and visiting board member. This officers' meeting, held in connection with the ward conference, may constitute the monthly ward preparation meeting for the month in which the conference is held.
In order to ensure a large attendance at the general session of the conference, it is recommended that advance announcement of the meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members, particularly, should be urged to attend.
A suggestive program for use at ward conferences will be sent to ward and stake presidents in bulletin form. Page 599