THE GREAT CONFLAGRATION.

	The following vivid description of the
late Oregon fire is from the "New North
West" of August 8th. 
	Portland lay asleep. All over the city
the Peace Angel hovered, and the dreams
of thousands as they slumbered in [--]ied
security, were unbroken by premonitions of
danger. But the incendiary did not sleep.
With his fiendish appetite whetted beyond
its ordinary wont, he prowled among the
sun-dried buildings wherein yet greater
combustibles were stored, and at the silent
hour of four, the hour when sleep is sound-
est and danger and suspicion of danger
is supposed to be at rest, he applied a torch
that laid a city low. Well did he lay his
foul purpose. Firemen, watchmen and
policemen were alike lost in the sweet lux-
ury of a morning knap. The prolonged
whistles of steamers at the docks for many
minutes seemed to only woo the dream god.
But at last a solitary fire bell rang out its
sharp alarm. Portland awoke—awoke and 
flocked to open windows, with drowsy eyes
and disheveled hair, with blanched cheek
and fluttering heart and gazed out upon
the great mountains of smoke, surmounted
by slender spires of lurid flame. Another,
and yet another fire bell rang. Men hurried
on their clothes and darted down the ere-
while deserted streets. Women, scarcely
taking time to clothe themselves, followed
at a little distance. Thousands gathered at
the scene of disaster and gazed and strug-
gled, till lot after lot and block after block
fell before the devouring element, driving
back, with the fierce tongues of fire that
possessed them, or the great billows of
smoke that they sent forth, the frantic
owners who fought for longer mastery in
vain.
	Women, with little children clinging to
their clothes, struggled along under all sorts
of burdens. Men, divested of all thought
of self, fought the arch fiend face to face,
saving property wherever they could.
Brothels emptied the low, vile, horrid life
with which they teem into the open streets,
and filled the air with curses. Ministers
stood upon the steps of costly churches
within a stone's throw of these awful dens,
and lifting up their hands and voices, be-
sought the God of elements to stay His
hand. Men, more practical, enshrouded
buildings in wet blankets and prayed with
hose and buckets, and, we trust, silently as
well. Other men, by dozens, became bru-
tally intoxicated, helplessly leaving their
wives and children to bear the burdens of
the day. Our noble firemen  came from Salem,
Oregon City and Vancouver, and chiefly by
the aid of these reinforcements was the con-
flagration headed off before it could destroy
the St. Charles Hotel, the only brick build-
ing that stood between the conflagration
and the almost entire remaining front. The
loss is computed at $1,185,325; insurance
$258,000. It is a greater calamity to the
Northwest than the Chicago fire was to the
central portion of the union, for it is a far
greater loss in proportion to the age of the
country, its wealth and population. But 
our people are again at work. Nothing
daunted, they will not say die. Already
preparations are being made to rebuild
many business houses. Relief committees
will see that the destitute do not suffer, and
though the years will pass away before Portland
recovers from her shock, she will rise from
her ashes, better built than before.


Lucca has been divorced.


