ADVICE TO LADIES UPON COSTUME

	In no way has civilized man played more
fantastic tricks, and sacrificed his reason
more entirely to folly, than in the matter of
dress. The clumsy and inconvenient gar-
ments of the savage, are attributed to his
ignorance of domestic arts; but what can be
said in excuse for civilized man, when he
wears shoes that project half a yard beyond
his feet, or exchanges his own locks for
a periwig filled with powder and pomatum;
when the graceful motion of a lady’s head is
sacrificed to the stiff movements necessary
in balancing a tower of linen and wire,
half a yard high, with draperies that flow
from the top of it to the floor; when the
wavy lines of a female form are disguised
under a stff circle of whalebone, which im-
prisons the body from the hips upward, and
a buckram cage so surrounds the lower limbs,
that she can with difficulty walk or sit.
Some false standard of beauty, invented
perhaps to conceal some deformity, is set
up, and then the very bones and mucles of
the perfect body must be made to conform
to it. When this is carried so far as it is in
the case of small feet in China, its absurdity
strikes us at once; but we may find, nearer
home, instances of a standard as false, and
consequences even more fatal to health and
happiness than the little feet of the Chinese.
	The history of national costume in the
civilized countries of Europe shows, that for
many centuries the progress of art and
manufactures only led to greater extrava-
gance in dress, and more preposterous
fashions. One enormity was only displaced
to make way for the opposite extreme, as
in the case of the peaked-toed shoes already
mentioned; these were followed by shoes of
only the length of the foot, but as broad as
they were long. At one time men’s coats
were so short that they resembled boy’s
jackets of the present day, and soon after
they were so long and full that they looked
like female attire. Women's sleeves were
sometimes made so long that they were tied
in knots, to prevent the wearer from tread-
ing on them, and nine yards of cloth was a
moderate quantity for each sleeve; and then
they were made as tight as skin, and
reached no father than the elbow. It would
seem that for centuries the whole ingenuity
of a nation was taxed to invent monstrous
forms of clothing, as well as inconvenient
and useless appendages, and that comfort
and ease were the things most of all to be
avoided in dress.
	After the general fashion of hoops had
passed away, and when they were gazed
after, on gala days only, as a raree-show, it
was difficult to imagine rational beings
reconciled to them, and considering them
an indispensible part of female attire, or to
believe that they were once so universal in
London, that maid-servants were seen
washing down the door-steps in hoop--petti-
coats. Yet such was actually the case before
they were left off by the higher classes.
	This reflection upon past fashions should
make us look with jealous eyes on those
which prevail in our day, in order to dis-
cover whether we are not in the practice of
something which will appear equally absurd
to future generations. The French nation
has long been the arbiter of fashion for most
civilized countries and the political revolu-
tion of the last century was accompanied by
a revolution in dress almost as signal; for it
banished wigs and buckles, powder and
pomatum, stiff stays and full petticoats,
long waists, and high-heeled shoes. One
extreme led to another, and the ladies who
had been encased in whalebone, bukrum.
and abundance of quilted petticoats, stepped
forth as Grecian goddesses, without any
corsets, any petticoats, any fulness to their
garments, or any heels to their shoes.
White muslin dresses of the scantiest
dimensions, drawn closely round the figure,
with the shortest possible waists, and not a
fold or a plait that could form any drapery,
were the order of the day in France and
quickly spread into England. Only look
at the portraits in the historical pictures of
that period—such for instance, as the coro-
nation of Napoleon—and you will be so
shocked at the tight sleeves, short waists, and
narrow skirts of the women, that it will be
difficult to believe that such a style of dress
ever looked well.
	The influence of fashion is so strong in
corrupting the eye, and perverting the taste,
that it has led some persons to doubt the
existance of any true standard of beauty as
applicable to costume; but as long as some
forms of dress, when out of fashion, look
better to us than others, we may fairly con-
clude that there are some immutable princi-
ples of taste connected with the subject,
and that those articles which we admire,
after they have ceased to be the reigning
mode, conform in some degree to true taste.
Such for instance, is the simple cap called
after Mary Queen of Scots. When the pre-
vailing fashions are most opposed to the flat
shape of the Mary-Queen-of-Scots cap, it still
appears to us beautiful; and when adopted
by a modern fine lady, as her costume in a
portrait, or her dress at a masquerade ball, it
is pronounced to be highly becoming. Now,
this is not the case with the monstrous
constructions of gauze, ribbon, and wire,
that was called caps fifty years ago; nor with
any of those head-dresses, which outrage
common sense, and set all proportion at de-
fiance. As soon as the enormous horse-hair
cushions, over which the locks were combed
and plastered with powder and pomatum,
went out of fashion, that style of head-dress
was condemned as hideous.
	Now, if there are principles of true taste
involved in the mysteries of a lady’s toilet,
is not the study of them worthy of a refined
and intellectual being; and would not her
time and thoughts be better spent in con-
forming her style of dress to them, than in
eagerly following every change of fashion
dictated by the love of novelty, apart from
real beauty?—“English Paper.”

	Paint.—To get rid of the smell of oil
paint, plunge a handful of hay into a pail
full of water, and let it stand in the room
newly painted.


