USEFUL STUDY

	It is a pleasing feature in the course of events
that those studies which have long been 
thought of most importance in the education of 
girls, are beginnig to be viewed more exten-
sively in their true light. That is, that al-
though beautiful as ornamental accomplish-
ments, they are not the most essential to life
and happiness. Young women have expended
unmeasured time and means in acquiring fam-
iliarity with arts and sciences suited only to
the embellishment of life without understanding
any principle connected with the subject upon
which depends the exercise and enjoyment of
all else they learn. They have pursued all
other branches of knowledge, giving the least,
if any attention to the laws of health and the
years in learning to sing, neglecting to give one
hour's study to those wonderful instruments,
the ear and lungs.
	There is no other subject upon which, com-
paratively speaking, people are so generally
ignorant as that one which is of greatest im-
portance to their temporal well-being. Yet,
once interested in the study of physiology,
there is none other more charming and elevat-
ing in its nature than this when rightly
pursued.
	The strangely complicated machinery of 
which the human body is composed, with its
intricate and perfect working, is far more
curious than anything the ingenuity of man
could invent; or even comprehend. Yet,
throught the providence of an All-wise Creator,
and by cultivation, enough understanding and
intelligence may be obtained, concerning this
most marvelous piece of workmanship, to in-
sure safety to its various members in passing
through the ordinary vicissitudes of life. And is
there not infinitely more wisdom in procuring
a knowledge of those divine laws by which life
may not only be prolonged, but the enjoyment
of it, and its usefulness increased, than in 
studying ought else to their neglect?
	It is often through ignorance of these laws
that diseases are entailed which prove incura-
ble and terminate fatally or make miserable
and comparatively useless life which might
have been joyous and eminently valuable.
Knowledge which may serve to prevent such
mistakes, cannot be looked upon as superficial
to improfessional readers. It is much cheaper
and safer to take measures of preserving
health, than to trust to means of redeeming it
when lost. But unless it is known what will
and what will not be injurious to the system,
how is a sure course to be adopted to prevent
mistakes in life which may peril and injure
the delicate and wonderful human structure?
The means for obtaining an understanding of
self, of the errors to be avoided, and laws of
life to be observed, so as to prevent disease, to
remove or retain health and vigor, are more
numerous than formerly and more within the
reach of the people! We consider that the
acquiring of such knowledge should be made a
principal feature in our common and high
schools; and would recommend all, so far as
possible, to acquire a correct understanding of 
the organization, laws and needs of their being.
And to seek for the power of self-control that 
they may make use of this understanding for
their best good.
	Considering the great importance of this sub-
ject, especially to women, we thus earnestly
seek to impress it upon their attention; fully 
believing that, in a general sense, there is no
one study so inestimably useful and requisite
to all persons, young and old, of both sexes, as 
that of self.


