			REASONING.

	I have been reasoning within my own
mind upon the subject of reading fiction, and
concluded that it is entirely wrong and
detrimental to our best interests. It often
seems a fine way to spend our leisure
moments, and entertain those around us.
But it, is not truth, therefore it must be
falsehood; and it appears that we love, and
if we don't make lies we tell them, and the
Scriptures say that whosoever loveth or
maketh a lie shall have their portion in the
lake that burneth with fire and brimstone.
I can now see that this practice is both fool-
ish and wicked, and am fully resolved that
however highly colored and fascinating the
fiction that comes in my way I will shun it
as I would the coils of a serpent which
would extinguish life. For novel reading,
if persisted in, will uproot our love of truth,
fill our minds with trash, leaving no room
for useful knowledge; useing up money and
our precious time, grieving the Holy Spirit,
and leading us down to death. How different
the opposite picture, if our thoughts are
filled with truth, theology, scientific litera-
ture and all the knowledge of God and
our relationship and duties to Him, that we
are His offspring; that He has given us
organizations in His own image, both phys-
ically and mentally, the right use of which
will exalt us in His presence to thrones,
principalities and powers—imparting all
true knowledge as circumstances may re-
quire.
	If we in our duty to Him do good to all;
if we feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
visit and administer to the wants of the
sick and afflicted, then we shall have our
reward. For the Savior will say as is re-
corded in His word "Come ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for
you before the foundation of the world."
For I was hungry and ye fed me, thirsty
and ye gave me drink, naked and ye clothed
me, sick and in prison and ye came unto
me. "In as much as ye have done it unto
one of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me." Now, the Relief
Societies have done this to all the hungry
and destitute of this Territory that they
could search out, and they will have their
reward. And still there is room. We must
"work while the day lasts."
	The rules given by an ancient philosopher
to his pupils, I think are worthy of applica-
tion to ourselves.
	
	"Nor let soft slumber close your eyes,
	Before you've recollected twice
	Thy train of actions through the day,
	'Where have my feet chose, out their way.
	What have I learned wherer'e I've been,
	from all I've heard from all I've seen—
	What duties have I left undone,
	Or into what new follies run?'
	These self-enquiries are the road
	That leads to virtue and to God."
					Excellette.


