ANOTHER STEP.

	Believing, that if properly and intelligently
conducted, many benefits will certainly accrue
from the consummation of the given proposition
—benefits to woman and consequently to man—
and sincerely hopeing that wisdom and pru-
dence may direct every effort of those who may
engage in this worthy attempt to accomplish
great good, we cheerfully append the following
notice, of a proposed “Woman’s Congress,”
which explains itself:
“The necessity of fellowship and concerted
action among women interested in the ad-
vancement of the race and more especially of
their own sex, is so apparent, that we do not
hesitate to assert that by far the larger portion
of our efforts in that direction are fruitless, be-
cause they are solitary and isolated.
Thousands of noble and beneficent women,
scattered all over our country, are to-day think-
ing, writing and speaking the truths which all
women need, and many are waiting to hear,
and which would, at once, be a renovating
o[-]rce in the land, if the believers could, in a


congregated body unite upon practical methods
for their incorporation into government, busi-
ness and social life.
  Therefore in consideration of the present
demand for unity of method among women in-
terested in like objects, Sorosis, whose purpose
is “to render women helpful to each other and
'useful to society," has determined to take the
preliminary steps for bringing the representa-
tive women of the country together in a
Woman’s Congress, that unitedly we may take
into consideration the more important ques-
tions that affect our Woman's life.
  We send this little messenger to all women
who by voice or pen, or practical work, have
conquered an honorable place in any of the
leading reforms of the day, and we cordially
invite them to signify their approbation and
sympathy with our effort by sending us their
names to affix to the formal Call for a “Wo-
man’s Congress,” to be held in New York, in
October, 1873.
  This Messenger will also be sent to such
Women’s Associations as have for their object
the improvement of women in any direction.
  This Call will be issued as soon as we receive
sufficient number of worthy names to insure
the success of the Congress, and we shall not
issue it until we receive that encouragement.
  It is not the intention of Sorosis to take the
lead in the Congress, after it shall be assem-
bled; it will select its officers and govern its[-]lf.
We, meanwhile, constitute ourselves a local
Committee for the preliminary business. As
we, as an associate body, send out this little
sheet, we append to it the names of the officers
of the society, but we shall not affix to the
Call the names of any persons who have not
formally notified us of their willingness or
desire to have their names appear.
Friend! If after you have carefully read our
Messenger, you are willing to assist in calling
the good women of our country together for a
noble object, please send your name and post-
office address to our President or either of our
Secretaries.
MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, President,
			151 East Fifty-first Street, N. Y.
MRS. JENNIE C. GROLY, Ex-Prsident,
MRS. MARY F. DAVIS, Vice-President,
MISS KATE HILLARD,  		"
REV. CELIA BURLEIGH, 		"
PROF. MARIA MITCHELL, 	"
MISS ALICE C. FLETCHER, Rec. Sec.,
		25 Stuyvesant Street, N. Y.
MISS FANNY HOWELL, Cor. Sec.,
		470 Vanderbilt Avenue, Brooklyn.
MISS ROMELIA L. CLAPP,
		Chairman of Executive Committee.
	Some of the questions to be considered by a
Woman’s Congress will be the following:
Higher Education for Woman; Woman’s
Work in Literature; The relation of Woman
to her Dress; Woman, the Promoter of Peace;
Prison Reform, Woman’s work; The Inviolate
Homestead; Equal Division of the Salary be-
tween Husband and Wife; Woman’s Influence
in promoting Temperance; Co-operative indus-
tries among Women; Woman’s place in
Government Systems of Philanthrophy; Law
as it affects Woman; Enlightened Motherhood;
Woman in Surgery and Medicine.”


