RIGHT KIND OF A FARM HOME.

	[The following pleasant sketch of what a
farmer's home should be is from “Harper’s
Magazine” for February. Farmers as they
build homes will do well to pattern after the
picture first described:] Early in October,
Lance and Laura were married, and moved
into their new home. It was far from being
a fashionable or imposing residence, unless
we except Laura’s one extravagance—the
little bow-window; but it had an eminently
cozy, homelike air. The moment you step-
ped inside, you received a comfortable,
cheerful impression, as if here were a place
where people were in the habit of enjoying
themselves.
	Entering a little square hall--on one side
was the dining-room; on the other, the par-
lor; back of the parlor, the bed-room; the
furnace imparting a summer temperature,
the doors of their adjoining rooms all stood
open, giving good air, and a deal of roomi-
ness for so small a house. The parlor paper
was a green and gilt flower on a light drab
ground; the carpet an ingrain, small checks,
green the predominant color. Through the
bow-window the sun shone brightly in over
Laura's plants, making a summer within,
even if it were winter outside. Each side
of the bow-window, on little brackets, were
Parian busts—Eve and Psyche—wedding
presents, looked out from English ivy that
twined around them, and then met over the
hanging basket in the middle of the win-
dow.  On the walls hung two or three good
engravings and photographs; over them
clusters of bright autumn leaves. A set of
hanging book-shelves, bearing the united
library of Lance and Laura, presented an
odd combination of poetry and works on
Agriculture and "The Horse." Then there
was a lounge which "was" a lounge—not a
rack contrived to exasperate the human
frame to the utmost by its’ knobbiness—an
easy-chair a camp chair, a shaker rocking-
chair, one or two cane-seated chairs, a centre-
table with the big lamp, books, papers, and
Laura's work-basket.
	This was the family sitting-room. Look-
ing in of an evening, you would have seen
Lance on one side of the table in the big
easy-chair, reading his paper, or chatting
with Laura, sitting opposite in her shaker
rocker with  sewing. One great advan-
tage in marrying a farmer is, that you have
him at home with you evenings, provided
you make yourself tolerably aggreable to
him. Laura, even if she were married,
still thought it worth while to fashionably
arrange her hair, wear the bright bow, the
dainty collar, the little et cetras that really
add so much to woman's attractions. Lance
had too much respect for Laura and himself
too to sit down for the evening in his old
frock, tumbled hair, overalls tucked into
coarse boots, savoring strongly of the barn-
yard. He brushed his hair, donned an old
coat and slippers, and so, with a little trouble,
gaining vastly in comfort and his wife's
affections.
	From their windows the light of a happy
home streamed, cheerfully out, a benediction
to the passer-by. People were fond of drop-
ping in there for an evening, it was "so
pleasant," they said. Many a farmer's boy
and girl, after an evening at Lance's, went
home thinking farming wasn't so bad, after
all, and they wouldn't be in such a hurry to
grow old enough to leave for the city, if it
could be as pleasant at home. For fashion in
Knipsic Farms had generally ordained an
entirely different order of things from that
prevailing at Lance's. The parlor of every
respectable farmer must contain a very hard
and slippery hair-cloth, sofa, six chairs, and
a huge rocking-chair possessing the same
qualities in even a greater degree; other
furniture to correspond, arranged at stiff
angles around the walls. This sacred ap-
partment, as well as the whole part of the
house, was kept cold, dark, shut up, and
suggestive to the bold invader who dared
penetrate its dreary shades only of funer-
als. The family lived mostly in the kitchen,
sustained, probably, by the proud conscious-
ness of possessing a best parlor and hair-cloth
furniture. Passing by at night, you would
think the house uninhabited, did not a ray
of light from way back in the L reassure
you. Did company come unexpectedly, so
great a parade was made of building fires,
opening rooms, getting out the best things
that the unfortunate guest felt he should
never dare come again. So Lance and
Laura were unconsciously doing missionary
work that a farmer's home need not neces-
sarily be destitute of any desirable comfort
or refinement.


