EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Political meetings, held in different
States of the Union, indicate that the wars
of the politicians are not yet an end.
	A sad story is told of a fire, which de-
stroyed the “Widows' and Orphans' Home"
in Kansas City, Missouri, a short time since,
rendering its inmates houseless.
	Shooting is becoming about as common
as divorces were a short time ago.  What
will be the next sensational strike of the
fashionables, by way of settling accounts?
	That Queen Victoria is a “liberal” in
politics, the English Tories, it appears, have
but lately discovered.  Yet why the belie
should have been entertained that she was
ever anything else, is not made manifest.
	Maggie Elphick, the Greenwich heroine,
has been presented with an elegant gold
watch and chain, by the father of the boy
she lately saved from drowning.  So much
more, for being a swimmer and cool headed!
	Miss Lottie Moon, has been selected as a
missionary to China, from Catersville,
Georgia. Doubtless the selection was a very
appropriate one, and Miss Moon will do
great good among the "children of the
Sun."  
	The advocates of “woman suffrage” in
England, as well as in this country, still
persevere in their efforts to obtain for
women their just privileges and rights.
We hope, ere many years, to see the subject
of “Woman’s rights” generally  understood
far more correctly and fully than it is at the
present time. 
	A Senator elect, declares that members
of Congress will have families in Washing-
ton, and it is better that they have their own.
That will do, provided  the people are not
taxed for the support of those families; and
if Congressmen have become so attached
to their home circles that their hearts
cannot bear separation for a few months.
	The fair taxpayers of San Francisco
have determined on having fair play in
future. They have met, and “resolved”
that until they are represented in the legis-
lative assemblies of the nation, they will
pay no more taxes.  Why should they?
They have right to a voice in making any
law which they are expected to respect and
help to support.
	Miss Nelly de Matamarre de Treby,
a young French lady—who during the war,
plunged a knife into the breast of a Prussian
officer, who, in her father's house, ventured
to put his arm around her waist—has lately
taken the veil. Had it been the "bridal
veil” there would have been more cheeri-
ness in the thought than there is in the con-
templation of her being a nun.
	The first instance, so said, in which a
white man has been sentenced according to
law, to suffer death for killing an Indian,
has occurred in Idaho. The criminal James
Picket, about a year ago, killed an Indian
woman almost instantly with a miner’s
pick.   He was  tried, convicted and sen-
tenced to death by the civil court of Idaho.
The Attorney General refuses to recommend
that he be pardoned;
	Several newspapers are now published
[new column]
in the United states, of which, portions are
under the editorial control of ladies. This
is as it should be. But when women thus
favored, make mention of “those naughty
men,” they should never forget to make
exceptions; keeping in mind that the men
are not “all” selfish braggarts. They call
for “fair play”—they should, then, be care-
ful not to manifest a disposition to take
more than their own just rights.
	Party feeling among politicians is pre-
senting rather foreboding aspects in different
localities. The Liberals, Democrats, Repub-
licans and all kinds of office seekers in
nearly all the States are shaking fists and
making grimaces at each other. Bickering
and backbiting will continue to grow worse
and worse, apparently, until a Wasington,
or some kind of a washing machine can
be obtained, of sufficient force to cleanse
the country of some of its corruption.
	One of the most fearful railroad disasters
yet recorded, recently occurred on the
Chicago and Alton railroad, from the collid-
ing of a freight train and a passenger train.
Many souls were instanttly hurried into
eternity, and many others died subsequently
from injuries received—as recorded, not
less than one hundred in all! And this
time, the recklessness of the conductor of
the freight train, whose name is Bean, is so
strikingly apparent that officers are in search
for him; and he will likely be brought to
justice 
	Pioche has had one of the most terrifiic
storms we have lately seen recorded. In
ten minutes from the time the storm com-
menced, a dispatch states, that “a sheet of
water three feet deep was boiling and cut-
ting through the entire width and length of
Main street, sweeping everything in its
path.” And the rain continued pouering
incessantly for two hours! Some of the
sins of the Piochers ought to be washed
away, certainly, quite an amount of their
property went at any rate.
	Mayfield, Santa Clara County, Califor-
nia, has an ambitious man, Mr. William
Paul, who is likely to do good service to the
country, and also enrich himself by engag-
ing rather extensively in the silk manufac-
turing business. He has now a great
number of mulberry trees four years old,
and has lately erected a large cocoonery in
which a party of experienced silk growers
will be employed. A considerable amount
of means might be profitably invested by a
few Utah capitalists in the production of
silk, and thus furnish suitable employment
to a goodly number of females.
	The Prince of Wales has occasion to be
prouder than ever of his royal title, since
the great triumph of the chorists at the
Christal Palace—the sweetest if not the
most glorious and famous victory which has
been recorded for ages. On the 10th of
July, a grand trial of musical abilities was
made at the above named palace in London,
by English and Welsh singers, the latter
proving greatly superior to the former, and
carrying off the £l,000, which was the prize
offered to the winners.  Marked attention
and honors were afterwards bestowed upon
them by the Prince himself and his royal
consort.
[new column]
	It is scarcely realized by most readers
how the slightest omission or misapplica-
tion of a point in punctuation, a word or
letter may completely change the meaning
of a sentence. Or what great care must
necessarily be taken by those who write and
prepare copy for the press, and also by the
compositor, not to mislead their readers.
An instance occurred in one of our editorial
notes, in the last sisue of the Exponent,
in which, by the omission of a quotation
mark, we made it appear that “Grace Green-
wood” is almost a believer in the “Mormon
system of marriage,” which, we think is
not the case, though she is really a sensible
woman in most respects.
	“The Balance” says, “The Salt Lake
Exponent doesn’t tell us anything about
the divorce suit of Mrs. Brigham Young No.
17.”  By way of explanation for this seem-
ing omission, we beg to inform our Chicago
friend that our columns have been crowded
with other matters which were of greater
weight in our estimation. We believed,
at the beginning of said suit, it would all
end in “nothing,” and considered that
a journal as young as ours is, and as popular
as it is becoming, should yet continue to
treat its readers to “something.” We,
however, take pleasure in referring “The
Balance to the “Deseret Evening News,”
or Salt Lake “Daily Herald,” papers of
longer standing and greater experience
than the Exponent, for information con-
cerning the Ann Eliza Webb Young divorce
suit, if it is really wanted.  We venture to
suggest, too, that “The Balance” should
learn the truth before publishing news con-
cerning matters of importance, as the fol-
lowing statement which it has is entirely
incorrect: “Brigham claims that she has a
living husband from whom she is not
divorced—this was no objection to her
while she was content to remain an inte-
grant Mrs. Young.”


Grand Rapids, Mich., has a woman sex-
ton.


