R.S. REPORTS.
	Minutes of the 14th and 16th meetings,
held by the young ladies of the 10th Ward
have been handed in, from the first of which
we select for the present issue, the following
items: Reading from the "Juvenile In-
structor," History of the Church, by Miss
Lizzie Edmunds. Miss Nettie Poll read a
poem from the Exponent, entitled 'Don't
Let Mother do it!" An original essay was
read by Miss Martha M. H. Paul. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. J. Pierce remarked that she
was pleased with the reading exercises,
especially 'Don't let mother do it!' 'Girls,'
she said, 'take heed to what is contained in
those few lines, and don't let mother work
so hard; help her all you can, and strive to
be her greatest comfort. You may not
know what trouble she has passed through
and how much she needs a comforter. And
who can be a greater comfort to a mother,
than a good, affectionate daughter? I have
heard girls say to their mothers, 'I don't
want to do this, it will soil my hands.' How
wrong and foolish! Mother has soiled her
hands many times for us all, and we can
never repay her for what she has done for
us. Instead of going out so often as some
of us do, let us stay at home and help
mother, and we will be blest.' Mrs. Ann
D. McAllister warned the young girls who
had to go out at service, against going to
fashionable hotels to work. It was no dis-
grace to work for a living but girls should
be cautious where and by whom they were
employed in these days. Mrs. A. M.
Pierce spoke of the the great necessity there
was for prayer and watchfulness. Miss A.
Graham felt that great good would result
from the little meetings which were held
by the young ladies; they were thus prepar-
ing themselves for future usefulness. Miss
Lizzie Edmunds knew that it was the Spirit
of God that brought them together with 
such happy hearts, and hoped they would
cultivate that spirit and that it might con-
tinue with them. Miss Charlottie Hile-
stead believed that, if they were united in
their efforts they would continue to improve
[new column]
and that the Lord would sanction and bless
their efforts. Mrs. H. Tout and Mrs. A.
Wilcox made appropriate remarks.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins forwarded a report of
the 23rd meeting of the Young Ladies'
Association of the 4th Ward. The meeting
was opened with singing and prayer;
catechism was recited by the members
present, and the meeting was addressed by
President Miss M. E. Bailey, Counselors
Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins and Mrs. M. A. Care-
less, Miss M. Jones and Miss L. Hague.
Original and selected articles were read and
meeting adjourned for two weeks.
		Provo City, August 21st, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Yesterday, according to appointment,
Sister Eliza R. Snow, on a visit to the
sisters of this city addressed a large and 
attentive audience of the members of the
Relief Societies at the Meeting House.
Sister Holden, of the 4th Ward, called the
meeting to order, after singing by the
choir prayer was offered by Elder J.P.R.
Johnson. The choir sang "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest." Sister M. T. Smoot
then introduced the speaker to the audience,
who, after expressing her pleasure at meet-
ing so many of her sisters, and her thank-
fulness to God for his protecting care during
her Eastern tour, gave an interesting account
of her travels. In her remarks, the speaker
referred to the principle of plural marriage,
urging mothers to teach it to their daughters;
alluded to the instructions of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, that the Relief Societies
were empowered to create any officers that
were deemed necessary for the well being
of their organizations. Therefore it was
moved and seconded that Sister Margaret
T. Smoot be sustained as President of the
four Presidents of Provo City Relief Socie-
ties, which was unanimous by the vote of
sisters present.
	At the close of Sister Snow's remarks,
Sister Elizabeth Howard, of Salt Lake Co.,
read the following

