HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Take things quietly, friends! and you
will thereby protect yourselves, and those
around you, from much unnecessary trouble.
Doubtless, there are many things in the
world calculated to try our temper, to per-
plex and torment us; but taking them
quietly is the best way of lessening their
power. If a man, carrying a basket of eggs
on his head, meets with an accident, where-
by the basket is overturned, and the eggs
are broken, will the stamping and storming,
his tearing and swearing, lessen his misfor-
tune, or recover one of his broken eggs?
Surely not; then, how vain is the indulgence
of his frenzy, and how much wiser would it
be to take things quietly! There are some
persons who can hardly live on earth unless
they are bouncing and bursting about like
so many squibs and crackers, and who, one
might imagine, would hardly think heaven
itself worth having, unless they went there
in a sky-rocket! Avoid such people as you
would a bomb-shell. What is the use of
going through the world like a volcano,
raging and roaring, spitting and spouting
fire in every direction, annoying others
and spending ourselves to no purpose?
	We have heard of the philosopher who
on observing a man frantic with grief, tear-
ing the hair from his head, exclaimed to
those around, "Doeth this man think that
baldness is a remedy for grief?" There was
much wisdom in the remark. If, by giving
way to passion or ungovernable grief, we
could thereby remove or lessen our afflic-
tions, there would be some sense in our
raving; but if, on the contrary, it invariably
increased our distress, why then, friends:
you will agree with us that it is much better
to take things quietly. By calmness and
self-possession our energies are rendered
doubly effective; and a man with an unruf-
fled spirit does that easily which under the
influence of passion he could not perform at
all.—"Miscellany."
	Seasoning Glass.—Place the glass in a
vessel of cold water and heat the water
gradually until it boils. Glasses of every
description thus prepared, it is said will
afterwards bear boiling water poured on
them without injury.
	Lemon Dumplings.—Mince four ounces
of suet, and mix it with the same quantity
of moist sugar, half a pound of bread-crumbs,
and the juice and peel of a lemon cut small.
Put them into tea cups and boil them three
quarters of an hour.
	Cleaning Stoves.—Stove luster, when
mixed with turpentine and applied in the
usual manner, is blacker, more glossy and
more durable than when mixed with any
other liquid. The turpentine prevents rust,
and when put on an old rusty stove will
make it look as good as new.
	Lemon Pie.—One tablespoonful of corn
starch, wet with a little cold water, stirred
into a cup of boiling water; pour it, boiling;
on a cup of sugar and a tablespoonful of
butter. After it cools, add the juice and
rind of one lemon and one beaten egg.
Bake with a upper  and lower crust.
	Keeping Honey.—To keep honey all the
year round, let it run through a fine sieve
to separate from particles of wax; then boil
t gently in an earthen vessel, skim off
the foam which gathers on the top, and
cool it in jars. After covering tightly set
them away in a cool cellar.
	Dr. S. S. Blookgett, ot Ogdenburgh, N.
Y., writing to the "Dental Cosmos," once
condemned the use of fine charcoal as a
tooth powder. He asserts that it is as
sharp as diamond dust, and soon wears off
the enamel. He says: "The great Denti-
frice that should be used at all times, and
under all circumstances, is soap. Its alka-
line properties serve to neutralize the acids
contained in the fluids of the mouth, and its
cleansing properties will correct the breath
and remove offensive odor sooner than any
article I have seen tried."
	Corn Soup.—Eight large ears, cut off the
grains and scrape the cobs. Cover this with
water (not too much) and boil until perfectly
done. Now add two quarts of milk, let it
come to a boil; stir in two tablespoonfuls of
butter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, let
the whole boil a few minutes; have ready
the yolks of three eggs well beaten; pour the 
soup on them, stirring hard all the time.
Serve immediately after seasoning to taste.
	Plain Cake.—One cup of sugar, one
of cream, one egg, two and one half cups of
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt.
Any spice you like.
	Sugar Bread.—Three pounds of sugar,
one and one half of butter, six pounds of
flour, eight eggs, one ounce and three
coppers' weight of baking powder, and one
pint of sour milk. Mix not too stiff, and
bake in a moderate heat.
	Measure Cake.—Six cups of sifted
flour, four of powdered sugar, one cup of
sour cream, one cup of butter and five eggs.
Cream half the flour with the butter, the
other half sift into the eggs and sugar after
they have been well beaten together. Mix
well, and just before baking add the cream,
with one teaspoonful of soda and the juice
of one lemon. Bake quickly.


A FELLOW having been "sworn to the truth"
of a statement he had made, afterwards
confessed that the major part of it was false.
"Did you swear to the truth of it?" he was 
asked. "Yes," he replied, "but I did not
swear to the falsehood of it, and part of it 
was truth."


Scientific Pun. — A gentleman was 
showing a friend a balloon of ox bladder in-
flated with oxygen. "But," observed the 
friend, "if the oxygen should escape, how
can you get it into the bladder again?"
"That is not the difficulty," quoth a by-
stander, "it is not how to get the oxygen
into the bladder again, but how to get the
bladder into the ox again!"


ALMOND custards are thus made: Blanched
sweet almonds, four ounces; beat them to a
smooth paste in a mortar, and add it to one
pint of thick cream, with the yolks of four
eggs, two or three spoonfuls of rose water,
and two drops each of essential oil of al-
monds and essence of lemon. Stir the whole
over a slow fire, until of a proper consis-
tence, then pour it into cups. Some use
milk instead of cream, and two eggs in
addition to the above.


TEN parts of tin, combined with one hun-
dred of copper, form bronze, is the usual
composition for statues. Common bell-
mettle is composed of three parts of copper
and one of tin. For very small bells, a
small portion of zinc improves the tone.
Speculum metal for telescopes is composed
of equal parts of tin and copper.  It is very
white, very hard and close in grain, and
eceives an exquisite polish.


