		ASSERTION IS NOT PROOF.

	How tiresome it is to have a person con-
tinually thrusting his opinions into your
face, with all the assurance of an oracle,
without ever condescending to give a
reason. You cannot venture your modest
opinion on any subject whatever, without
coming in contact with one of these unsup-
ported, stonewall “surmises” which pertly
assume to be facts. You think the air feels
damp as if a shower was coming; but Mr.
Positive, with great assumption of superi-
ority informs you that “the atmosphere to-
day is dry as a bone.” You think the
use of tobacco injurious to the health–––
“Madam, it is the very best tonic known.”
	You think the free school system a great
blessing.—“Yes, to parents and teachers,
but perfect robbery of those who are
neither.”
	No amount of persuasion could elicit from
him an argument in support of his mighty
opinion, but he expects you to accept un-
questioningly his most absurd dogma as a
fact incontrovertible. And you meet these
plagues in every walk in life.
	Some gravely tell you on no account
to pet and fondle your children unless you
wish to ruin them; but not being able
to see where the harm is, you venture to
inquire how and why that would ruin your
darlings, “Oh I see you don’t believe it,
but you will when it may be too late,” and
that is all the information you can obtain.
	A physician tells you a certain kind of
poultice is good for that swelling on your arm,
but if you ask “How is it good, Doctor?”
you receive a cold stare and the reply “To
make it well;” and it requires real courage
to persist, “Now, Doctor, I must have a fair
answer; if that poultice is “good’ to scatter
this inflamation through my system again,
I do not want it; I want something to
bring it to a center and throw off this im-
purity while there is a chance.”
	You take an interest in the study of
Phrenology and are curtly told it is a perfect
waste of time. Being only in search of
instruction, you mildly inquire “why” and
are wonderfully enlightened by the lucid
“Because there’s not a word of truth or sound
sense in it.”
	You sympathize with the Woman’s
Rights movement and honestly believe that
the mothers of men and women have as
deep an interest in their present and future
welfare as the fathers, and, therefore, would
be if as well educated, quite as capable of
properly shaping their destinies. But you
learn with wonder and awe that “Woman
never was and never will be capable of un-
derstanding political economy nor of ac-
quiring a man’s education.” Having the
testimony of all sacred and profane history
that women have been chief rulers, high
priests, counselors, commanders and war-
riors, you suppose, in your innocence, that
you are to receive some new light on the
subject, but instead of that, your informant,
looks the picture of injured innocence, that
you ever imagine that statement needed
confirmation. Surely you do not doubt his
veracity?
	Now what “I” want to know is just this:
Am I obliged to swallow all these nauseous
doses of wisdom and call them, “good” for
me, or may I speak my mind, and say “If
you can give me a reason sufficient to con-
vince my judgement, then I will accept your
views, if not, I shall consider myself at
liberty to esteem my own opinion as highly
as yours?”
	If in order to be womanly and keep my
“sphere,” I must do the former, then let
spheres take care of themselves for I’ve no
use for them. I do not feel like “giving
proof" of woman’s inferiority by any such
compliant course. Every person, within
whose soul the least spark of reason exists,
has a right to cultivate that reason and give
it satisfaction before adopting any principle
or opinion; and because my head may be
weaker than yours and my judgment less
reliable, is no reason I should not cultivate
and improve them. And when you give
me your views on any given subject and
withhold the support of these views, you
defraud me of an opportunity to cultivate
my judgment and arrive at a just conclusion
for myself.
	You have no more right to force your
unsupported belief on my acceptance, than
Mahomet to spread his religion at the edge
of the sword. If I cannot see as you do
when you are right, that is my misfortune
and I deserve your pity. If you wish to
benefit me by your opinion, show me kindly
the foundation on which your confidence
rests, and then if I cannot see its beauty and
durability, let me alone until my own
experience and observation confirm your
teachings.
	Even the child, the little one of tender
years and immature faculties, has a right
to expect a reason for anything under the
sun which it is taught; and when one is
not given, the child has a perfect right
to reject the teaching.
	“In my opinion,” if this principle were
more generally acted on, a great amount of
existing bigotry and intolerance would be
swept away, and vastly more brotherly
love and charity possess the hearts of
humanity. 
						L. L. D.
BEAVER, Aug. 8th, 1873.


Phraseology.—A gentleman who had
just completed a tour through the wilds of
the West rode up to a house in Illinois,
around which were more improvements
than were common to the country. On in-
quiring of the owner if he would sell the
premises, he replied he would. “What do
you ask?” was the second interrogatory.
“I ax a good deal.”—“How much is that?”
“A right smart chance of money.” —“What
is a right smart chance of money ?” “A heap
more than I gin for it.”—“Well, sir, what
is your price, now, per acre?”—“I’ll allow
I don’t want to sell it.”


