HOME AFFAIRS.

	We understand that a new daily paper has
been started at Beaver, entitled "The Beaver
Eenterprise."
	There has been considerable threatening of
heavy storms in this valley of late, but as yet
no results of a serious nature have occurred.
	The report of a ladies' meeting, held at
Provo during a late visit of President Miss E.
R. Snow to that city, has reached us, but too
late for insertion in this issue.
	Mrs. Belinda  M. Pratt, of Fillmore has
recently taken the superintendency of the
Relief Co-operative Store in that city, which
she writes us has fair prospects of doing a good
business.
	It is very gratifying to find that a number
of ladies are becoming interested in writing
for the Exponent. We hope to see their en-
deavors increased, and that others will be
encouraged to engage in like undertakings.
	Some of the Relief Society reports in our
present issue are particularly interesting. There
are a few hints in the one from Paradise,
which might be considered with profit by any
woman connected with the good cause of the
Latter-day work.
	Clear cool nights and mornings have char-
acterized the state of the atmosphere in this
valley for several days past. In some portions
of Cache valley, we learn that slight touches of
frost have been apparent during the last days
of the past month.
	A Party of Editorial Excursionists, from
different parts of the Union, lately visited this
city, and as considerable pains was taken by
the Board of Directors of the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society, and others.
to make their short stay an agreeable one, we
hope it proved such, and that we may hear
some pleasant reports from it.
	Interesting accounts are given of the late
Cache Valley Conference held at Logan City,
by President Young and party. Large and
attentive congregations are reported to have
assembled, as usual on such occasions, from all
parts of the valley.
	This evening is the one for the Sunday
School Convention, being the first Monday in
the month. Teachers should bear it in mind, 
and be present, that they may keep up with
the growing interests of the Sabbath Schools
in this city, and acquaint themselves with the
progressive steps of the Sabbath School Union.
	Brother John Miller, who has delivered
the Exponent to a portion of the subscribers
in this city since its commecement is desirous
of withdrawing from the services thus rendered,
and wishes to notify any lady who would like
her paper delivered for one year, beginning
with the next issue, that he will receive pay
and be responsible for its safe delivery. He
does not propose to receive any further appli-
cations after the 15th, inst.
	Bishops, Post masters, Presidents of Re-
lief Societies and other prominent citizens in
different parts of the Territory, have been
speaking good words and accomplishing good
works for the Woman's Exponent. We ten-
der our grateful acknowledgments for these
efforts from the journal's many and kind
friends, trust they may be continued with as
much earnestness and sincerity in the future
and even greater success; and that the worthy
example may be followed by many others
	President Young, with a party of Elders
from this and neighboring towns, is now on a
tour through the northern settlements of the
Saints, visiting and holding meetings. Com-
munications from members of the company
state that he is in good health, and enjoying
his labors as usual. Their meetings were ap-
pointed for to-day, to be held at Bennington,
Bear Lake Valley; the company expect to re-
turn to their homes on Saturday, the 6th inst.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, for some years the
editor of the "Deseret News," has retired from
the position on account of a great press of
other duties, and Elder David O. Calder as-
sumes that responsible situation. Both gen-
tlemen are well known in the community as
men of great intelligence and integrity, well
worthy the confidence and good wishes of the
people. We trust the "News," under the man-
agement of Elder Calder, may continue to in-
crease in usefulness, meeting in the direction
of its calling, the wants of the growing popula-
tion and the desires of its new editor.
	A school for ladies, who design studying
and becoming conversant with the science of 
obstetrics, will be opened in this city, in a few
days, by Mary H. Barker, M. D., whose card
appears in this issue of the Exponent. The
lady, we understand, is fully competent to give
a thorough classical course of that which she
undertakes to teach, and is prepared to open a
class as soon as books which have been sent for
arrive from the East. The class will be held
at her rooms, where she will be found by any
lady wishing to make arrangements with her
concerning the school, during her office hours,
which are designated in her card, also her place
of office.
	The Ogden "Junction" tells us about the
Bear River Valley Railroad, which it shows
will soon prove, in mor ways than one, a very
great benefit to the Territory, if the work on it
continues without hinderance, as projected.
It will run from Hilliard on the Union Pacific
Railroad, Southeasterly for twenty miles to
the head of Mill Creek, a tributary of the river.
And it is believed that through this medium,
the best of lumber can be furnished to the
markets cheaper than it can be imported, as
the line will run in easy distance to not less
than 25,000 acres of excellent timber. Other
important advantages are also stated as bear-
ing connection to this new railroad enterprise.


[For the Exponent.
