HOME MANUFACTURE.

	Where is the individual, the family, com-
munity or nation who, being possessed of true
independence is not justly proud of it. And
in what does independence consist, so much as
in the home production of all articles necessary
for life's comforts and conveniences?
	No family that depends on buying the shoes
and stockings, hats, coats, jackets, aprons skirts
and so on, even to suspenders and garters, ready
made—for all its members from father down
to baby—ever knows anything of the real satis-
faction of being, in a measure, independent.
	A little girl never dons a pair of boughten
stockings with the same pleasure, or feels that
they are so perfectly comfortable, as the ones
she has knitted herself. While even the latter
are more satisfactory, if made of yarn spun at
home, from wool which her own dainty fingers
have assisted in preparing for the machine.
And if the recollection of having taken an
occasional run to look after the dear, old sheep
or pretty playful lambs from which the snowy


fleeces were clipped, happens to occur to her
mind some frosty winter's morning, these soft,
warm stockings appear to her to be "thrice
blessed." No far fetched gaiters ever seem
half so nice to her as do the little neat, white
"buck-skin" shoes, fastened with delicate pink
bows, made by the skillful hands of her own
patient, practical mother. This is personal
experience.
	None are so happily situated as those who
are able to manufacture for themselves, instead
of paying out money in order to hire others to
manufacture for them. This statement is no
less true of a nation or a kingdom, than of a
family or an individual.
	The community that chops its wood with
imported axes, churns its butter in imported
churns, clothes itself with materials brought
from other countries or other parts of a country,
imports its school books and its school teachers
or sends its children abroad to be educated; and
manages all its affairs in a similar manner,
can never thrive and become wealthy like the
one which develops its own resources, and is
able to export instead of being obliged to im-
port the common requisites which belong to
civilized life.
	Co-operation is the one great principle, and
the only one, upon which this saving system of
home manufacture can be profitably introduced
into a community. If tradesmen and trades-
women, engaged in all the various departments
of useful industry, could de induced to patron-
ize and sustain each other, as much as possible
in producing, and using home productions, a
beautiful order would thus be established, in
which home manufacture would produce home
independence.
	But so long as each one demands money of
every one, for his or her work, in order that all
may trade where they will, so long as laborers
refuse to sustain each other in their home in-
dustries, there will be little independence
realized, among the masses of the people.


