AN ADDRESS.
		By Miss Eliza R. Snow.
Delivered in the Tabernacle. Ogden, at a Relief
	Society meeting, Thursday afternoon, August
	14th, 1873.
		Reported by James Taylor.
	[As the first part of the address is of a
descriptive nature, in which the speaker
delineates the course of travel pursued by
President George A. Smith and party, the
lately returned tourists, and as the readers
of the Exponent have been favored with
much the same details through Miss Snow's
letters, we merely make a few extracts, giv-
ing the latter portion of the address in full.]
—Ed.
		In Lyons, we saw them weave silk
of various descriptions. They weave pho-
tograph likenesses and battle scenes, and
delineate countenances plainly as if they
had been painted.
	In the King's Palace in Munich, I was
shown window curtains made of glass, in
brocade and beautiful colors. Without feel-
ing of them, I should not have thought but
that they were silk, but they were glass.
		I visited many churches and cathe-
drals; I visited mosques (a mosque is a 
Mahamedan place of worship;) saw all I
could under the governments where we
traveled. And the more I saw, the more I
felt the necessity of the Lord! having a
government on the earth for the sake of the
people, and thought how well off the Saints
in Zion were; and what blessings they en-
joyed. Blessings and privileges above those
of all the nations of the earth. And, we my
sisters, we have the privilege of being
organized according to the pattern which
God has given for the females in the Church
of Jesus Christ. We are privileged above
all other woman kind on the face of the
earth. I thought when I was abroad, I
thought before I went, and I have thought
much since I returned, how necessary for
the Saints of the living God to be more of a
distinct people than what they are, to be
the Saints of God in very deed––and to be
as different from the rest of the world as
our privileges are more exalted—we should
be a shining light to  the nations of the earth.
But I often say to myself, are we what we
should be?
	I was talking with President Young about
how we were received abroad. He said
that the Saints were growing in influence;
and that if they lived up to their privileges,
their influence would be far greater than
it is now. I told him that I believed that
if we were as distinct a people as the Lord
wanted us to be our influence would be far
greater. He said it would. But instead of
that, are we not trying to gain influence by
assimilating to the habits and customs, and
the spirit of the world?
[new column]
	Now I do not know that this would apply
to my sisters in ogden, for they are a live
people. Their works exhibit that. And 
their reputation bespeaks them to be awake
to their duties. But still we are never to
come to a stand point. We are to be pro-
gressing and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal pro-
gressing, and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal progression.
It will not do to say that we have so much
to do that we cannot do any more, because
the works and duties for women in Zion are
constantly increasing. No where on the
earth has woman so broad a sphere of labor
and duty, of responsibility and action, as in
Utah.
	I tried in many instances to make
people believe that women in Utah had
more freedom than women had any where
else on the earth. But they thought that
they knew better than I did. I told them 
how long I had lived with the people, and
that I ought to know better than strangers.
	To be sure we have trials, but what are
they? I want to ask my sisters now a seri-
ous question. When you are filled with the
Spirit of God, and the Holy Ghost rests upon
you—that comforter which Jesus promised
and which takes of the things of God and
gives them to us, and shows us things
to come, and brings all things to our re-
membrance—when you are filled with this
spirit, do you have any trials? I do not
think you do. For that satisfies and fills
up every longing of the human heart, and
fills up every vacuum. When I am filled 
with that spirit, my soul is satisfied; and I
can say in good earnest, that the trifling
things of the day do not seem to stand in
my way at all. But just let me loose my
hold of that spirit and power of the
Gospel, and partake of the spirit of the
world, in the slightest degree, and trouble
comes; there is something wrong. I am
tried; and what will comfort me? You can-
not impart comfort to me that will satisfy
the Immortal mind, but that which comes
from the fountain above. And is it not our
privilege to so live that we can have this
constantly flowing into our souls? To be
sure we have many of the crosses of life,
but what do we meet them for? Are they
for our own good and benefit or do we meet
them all as for Zion's sake? Do we let Zion
take full possession of our desires, our am-
bition?
	Now my sisters, though I took that tour to
Europe and Asia, would I have gone to
gratify my own personal selfishness? I felt
that it was right for me to go. My sisters
sent me. I went believing that good would
result from my going. And I have had
that belief all the time. I never once
regretted starting. I told President Smith
that I did not think that anything could
occur to make me regret that I went. I
try never to allow myself to do anything for
a selfish gratification. Still we are all frail
and weak mortals of the earth, earthy:
But that comforter, which is a legacy that
belongs to every Saint of God, and to
every one who has been baptized for the
remission of sins, will lift our desires to a
nobler aim, and we forget all about self.
We have self all absorbed in the interests of
the work of God. We are here to perform
duties, and to do our part towards establish-
ing God's Kingdom. We, my sisters, have
as much to do as our brethren have. We are
to work in union with them. Every woman
who fills her position as a wife, honorably,
stands as a counselor to her husband. Not
a dictator, a counselor. And what a life it
is to live my sisters! What a noble life,
to live, so as to fill this position, in which
we are blessed, and are honorable as women
of God.
	Paul the Apostle anciently spoke of holy
women. It is the duty of each one of us to
be a holy woman. We shall have elevated
aims, if we are holy women. We shall feel
that we are called to perform important
duties. No one is exempt from them.
There is no sister so isolated, and her
sphere so narrow but what she can do a
great deal towards establishing the King-
dom of God upon the earth.	I am proud to see so many young ladies
associated with the Relief Society in Ogden.
There should be an association in every
settlement, and in every Ward in Salt Lake
City. And wherever there is a Relief
Society, the girls and young ladies should
have as much to do as other women already
in the Retrenchment Association. You
need not be startled at the words Retrenchment
Association. If you associate together,
your minds are improved, you are gaining
intelligence, and you are retrenching from
ignorance. The Spirit of God will impart
instruction to your minds, and you will
impart it to each other. I say, God bless
you my young sisters. Remember that you
are Saints of God; and that you have im-
portant works to perform in Zion.
	How is it with a great many of our young
people? The are baptized when they are
eight years old, and have hands laid upon 
them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Do
they know what the Holy Ghost is? Do
they ever minister in the Holy Ghost?
Have they ever had the gifts of the Gospel?
Look around you and think how many there
are, children of the Latter-day Saints, who
know no more of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
than the heathens do. Why? because they
have had nothing to do with it. Their
fathers and mothers are good Saints. But
they are children of Zion. They can go
their own way, and do as they list. They
can be full of the spirit of the gentiles, and
be so blind that they cannot see the differ-
ence between the profession of a gentile and
the sincerity of the Saints. They have no
light in them. Why is it? Was it so at
the beginning of this Church? No it was
not. I can bear testimony that in the
beginning of the Church, children and young
people had the gifts of the Gospel, and prayed
and sang. They talked as much as old
people. They knew what the Spirit of God
was. There was no need of cautioning
them about the spirit of the world. They
had that monitor within them, the Holy
Ghost which showed them things in their
true light. I should like to see the effects
of it now in our young people. There is
some cause why it is not so. And I think
it would amount to quite as much, and a
little more, to have attention paid to these
things in such a manner that it would save
the children that are born in Zion, than it
would to go to the trouble of raising money,
and bringing the Saints from the nations of
the earth. Why are there not some steps
taken to save the youth?
	Now, in Salt Lake City President Young,
counseled Sister Horne and myself, and
Sister Smoot to organize the Young girls.
He wanted his young girls organized first.
He dictated who should be president, and
she to choose her Counselors, and start out
right. But how did it work? There was
cold water thrown on the efforts made. It
was turned to ridicule by many. They said
"what is the use of the girls meeting to-
gether, and praying, and talking?" And I
would ask what is the use of our brethren
meeting together? If the young girls and
the boys do not need the Spirit of the Gos-
pel, there does not any person need it.


But, I think the state of society in Salt Lake
City does  need it. You may talk to the
young about the follies of the world and the
unholy influences of the gentiles till dooms
day, and it will make no impression. But,
you place them in a position where they
will get the Holy Ghost, and that will be a
sure protection against outside influences.
Some will say, “our-boys, are sent out on
missions and then they get the Spirit of
God." Some of the boys are sent on mis-
sions, and it is necessary to keep them out,
that they may retain the Spirit of God, if
there is not enough of it at home. Some
of our young men who are sent out on
missions are obliged to seek to God but
when they come home they are laughed out
of it, and perhaps fall into the practices
of those who are here! It is not so with all
of them to be sure.
	In referring again to the organization of
the young ladies, I may say we have aposta-
tized in Salt Lake City, but there are so
many left as to show what that organiza-
tion would have been if carried out as
President Young desired it to be. We have
organizations of young ladiea in Salt Lake
City, who do not need anybody to tell them
about the influences and fashions of the 
world. They have just as much distaste for
them as the older folks have....I do think
to-day that if that counsel had been carried
out among the young girls, and boys, and
they had been organized and got the Spirit
of God, that our society would have shown
a very different character from what it does.
Some of the mothers and fathers, who spoke
lightly of it, now see the necessity of it,
to their sorrow.
	"Well, but now, Sister Eliza, are you not
scolding folks?" I have to talk so loud, as I 
want you all to hear, and it may seem like
scolding.
	There are a great many good things that
I could talk about, but I want to talk about
things that will produce effects, and effects
of salvation. It does not do to fool away
our time, thinking that all is well. It is
necessary for us to be laying that founda-
tion, which will secure the salvation of the
young, as well as of the old, and not leave
it to the exigencies of time, nor to the
chances of circumstances, but each one of us
see to it ourselves, and cultivate those
principles that will tend to salvation.
	Now, I am thankful that these my young
sisters meet together. You will be blest.
Sister Richards will be blest for promoting
these organizations. I understand you are
in connection with the Relief Society. It
makes no difference. But I want to say
one or two things, that I wish you to
remember. It is not only necessary for you
to meet together, you should talk to each
other, and talk of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
You can talk of your every-day concerns,
but accustom yourselves to talking to each
other on the principles of the Gospel. It
will lay a foundation for your being emi-
nently useful hereafter. That is what you
are born for. You might as well have been
born in some other nation or dispensation
unless you can feel that you have a mission
in Zion. Study the principles of the Gospel,
converse on them, understand them, so that
you may be able to cope with any of the
wisest of the world. They are coming
here. They often ask questions of the
young, when they would not interrogate
the older ones. You want to understand
that you are living to be Saints, and never
be ashamed to acknowledge yourselves to
be Latter-day Saints. It is not enough that
you are born in Zion. It is true that the
Prophets said it should be an honor to be
born in Zion; but it is a dishonor not to live
up to the blessings of the Gospel to which
you are heirs.
	I see the Relief Society here has no house
of its own-no house that it can control. I
know the sisters are accomodated. But
each Society needs a house at its own dis-
posal. And if the sisters in Ogden, with 
the sanction of the brethren, undertake to
build a house, the brethren will help them.
It is said that God helps those who help
themselves, land the brethern are so god-
like that they will help you. Bishop Wooley
ley is now stepping forward to have such a
house built in the 13th Ward, in Salt Lake
City.
	There is another thing I want to mention
before I sit down. President Young is
requiring the sisters to get students of
Medicine. He wants a good many to get a
clasical education; and then get a degree
for Medicine. So far as getting the degree
is concerned, there would be no advantage,
but in connection with the degree, the
female practitioner stands on the same
grounds a man does. Are there here, now,
any sisters who have ambition enough, and
who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's
sake, to take up this study. There are
some who are naturally inclined to be
nurses; and such ones would do well to 
study Medicine, if they are inclined to do
so. If they cannot meet their own ex-
penses, we have means of doing so. It is
proposed that the sisters, instead of expend-
ing means to emigrate foreign Saints, spend
that means in educating young women.
Those who go through this course should be
young women. We have, in Salt Lake
City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach.
But there are many branches you need to 
study before going to the expense of being
boarded abroad to study. You need to study
Physiology, Anatomy, and other kindred
branches. 
	Then, another class of women is wanted
more advanced  in age, who are natural
nurses, and would be willing to study ob-
stetrics; this lady is going to give a series
of lectures for their benefit. If some who
have natural inclinations for nursing would
come and attend these lectures, that would
be fulfilling the requirements, so far. We
are waiting to get up as large a class as we
can. There are some eight or twelve now.
President Young said that he wanted one,
at least, from every settlement. Of course, 
so large a city as Ogden, should furnish
quite a number; so that we can have our
own practitioners, instead of having gentle-
men practitioners. In ancient times we
know that women officiated in this depart-
ment, and why should it not be so now?
The difficulty is in getting the sisters to feel
like undertaking it.
	Now if there are any who will attend
through all of these classes, their expenses
will be met if they are not able to meet
them. Several Ogden women should attend
this course  lectures, and confine themselves
to that particular department.
	We have to get up these classes and 
attend toall these things. Don't you see
that our sphere is increasing? Our sphere
of action will continually widen, and no
woman in Zion need to mourn because her
sphere is too narrow.
	God bless you, my sisters, and encourage
you, that you may be filled with light, and
realize that you have no interests but in the
welfare of Zion. Let your first business be
to perform your duties at home. But inas-
much as you are wise stewards, you will
find time for social duties, because these are
incumbent upon us as daughtes and mothers
in Zion. By seeking to perform every duty
you will find that your capacity will increase,
and you will be astonished at what you can
accomplish. You have been astonished
at what duties you have done. The Lord 
help us. The Lord is with His Saints and 
helps them to do His will and He watches
over them by night and by day. Inasmuch
as we continue faithful, we shall be those
that will be crowned in the presence of God
and the lamb. You, my sisters, if you are
faithful will become Queens of Queens,
and Priestesses unto the Most High God.
These are your callings. We have only to
discharge our duties. By and by our labors
will be past, and our names will be crowned
with everlasting honor, and be had in ever-
lasting remembrance among the Saints of
the Most High God.


