	A FAMILY CONVERSATION.

	Husband. Wife, have you read what the
papers say about Miss Smiley of Chicago
making proselytes by preaching? What
do you think women will do next? 
	Wife. Why, go to pleading law, I guess.
	Husband. Well, well! If anything on
earth can disgust me with women, it will
be to see them take the stand and go to
making speeches. I am sorry  it comes in
my day. I love woman in her own sphere.
	Wife. Pray tell me, what is her sphere?
Not to know anything only what her husband
tells her I suppose. I should be sorry to see
any of my girls turn lawyers; but if they
did, they would be true to their clients, and
not be bought and sold as some men are.
	Husband. Just as I expected; you bring
up argument and reason to sustain women
in their wild goose chase after law and phy-
sic and many other absurdities!
	Wife. Well Mr. Brown, you know that
my opportunities have been limited, that I
know but little, and am dependent upon
you for that. I have taken the Apostle
Paul's advice; "Let women learn from their
own husbands at home and be in subjection."
	Husband. Well, Mary, you've acted
wisely by staying at home and attending to
your domestic duties, and letting the out-
side world alone. Women are too pure to
mix up in political strife.
	Wife. Oh! that just reminds me of what
John asked me yesterday. He said, "Mother,
Judge Johnson is in the parlor talking to
father about that suit pending in court.
"What did he say about it?" "He said he
feared they would swindle the widow and
children out of the most of the property.
I could not understand half the judge said."
"Why not my son?" "Because I have never
read law, neither been in a court room, what
do they mean by mittimus and venire?"
"You'll have to ask your father, my son."
"Well mother, I think it is time we were
learning something. Suppose father had
dropped off suddenly like Mr. Grey, and
left his business in the condition it is in,
with those securities hanging over it?"
	Husband. Who ever would have thought
that John, no older than he is, would have
noticed what the Judge was talking about?
I believe I will bring home some law books
and have him go to reading them. Wife.
And Annie too; I don't wish to raise her as
ignorant as I am. We do not know whose
hands she may fall into when we are gone.
	Husband. Oh! Mary, you know I don't
want my daughters contaminated with law
and politics; they have enough to do to
study music and dress. Whenever women
engage in masculine pursuits, it takes away
all other charms.
	Wife. Well, I have found out that
charme will not take a virtuous woman
through the world. Look at your sister
Maud, brought up to know nothing but
to dress and to thump on the piano! She is
a sample of what charms will do towards
rearing a family. She married a man who
has spent all the property her father gave
her, and you went his security for five
thousand dollars. Now he has run away to
get rid of paying his debts and left her
with six little children, broken hearted,
and knows no more about feeling the re-
sponsibilities of wife and mother than our
little Jane.
	Husband. Oh well, you know if women
get good husbands they have no need to
learn anything outside the sphere of women.
	Wife. Why I heard you say last week,
that the heads of the nation were becoming
so corrupt, and dishonorable that they would
be the downfall of the nation; a great num-
ber of men who go to the Senate and House
of Representatives to represent the people
of this once Great Republic, can be bought
and sold for a few thousand dollars. If this
is the case, it is certainly time women were
beginning to study as least the first "Law"
of nature—self-preservation.
							W. E.


