			PLEASANT GROVE CITY,
						August 21, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   Knowing the desire and interest you have
for the welfare of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in sending you a few lines
from this place.
  At our legular monthly meeting, held on
the 9th inst., as usual the members of the
Society were “generally” present and a
lively interest was manifested in the good
work in which we are engaged. Our
Bishop met with us, and by request ad-
dressed the meeting at some length, en-
couraging the sisters in their efforts to do
good in relieving the wants of the needy,
etc. Although their contributions might
appear to be small they should not be dis-
couraged, large mountains were composed
of small particles, the widow’s mite was an
illustration that it was not the great amount
contributed, but the motive which prompted
the action, that would be regarded, and
according to this, all would be rewarded.
He also gave some excellent counsel in
relation to training children; said that
mothers have, as a rule, more influence
with children in their early years than any
other person.
  Several other persons spoke and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work,
and all seemed willing to do to the extent
of their ability to advance the interests of
the Society.
Financially our Society is in a healthy
condition; in addition to administering to
the wants of the poor here, we have assisted,
this season, one brother to emigrate from
Denmark, whose family came here last year.
  To-day we have a general working meet-
ing of the Society, which is well attended.
Knitting, Patch-work, etc is going on at a
lively rate, giving our large hall the ap-
pearance of a hive of working bees.
  Our President, with several of the sisters
is at Provo to-day, attending a meeting held
by our General President, Miss E. R. Snow.
Wishing the success of every good cause,
[new column]
including your valuable journal, I remain,
very respectfully your sister in the covenant
of peace, 
	MISS PAULINA E. BROWN, Secretary.


