SPLINTERS.

	It is estimated that there are 125,000 wo-
men in New York City who earn their living.
.....The weekly wages of female teachers in
Maine is said to be but $3:50. How do
they live?..........There were one hundred
and forty-two babies born in San Francisco
on the 2nd inst..........The "Tulare Times"
describes a wild man seen in the range of
the Sierras, as of being of gigantic stature,
a white man who goes entirely without
clothes and is covered all over with long
black hair. The Indians think it is the
devil or ghost of some wicked dead man......
A little girl in St. Louis lately obtained
access to a bottle of corrosive sublimate
which she drank and died......A Missouri
colored man, named Messenger, being in-
toxicated, a few evenings ago, shot another
colored man, killing him instantly......The
colored people of Ohio want more extensive
political recognition, and are considering
how best to secure it.....Kildare, Ireland,
has had a little disturbance from English
rifles......Mr. Allsop, the son of the cele-
brated brewer, has made a successful run
for the Parliamentary seat for East Stafford-
shire, England......The Count de Chambord 
says France is weary of agitation, and would
be saved and rise from her ruins stronger
and greater than ever, if the real conditions
of safety were rightly understood......The 
Soliders' Orphans Home, of York State, has
a semi-annual appropriation of $2,500......
The hog cholera has made some farmers in
Springfield, Illinois, poorer by several hun-
dred dollars in a few days time this season.
......An English newspaper, established in
1723, recently celebrated its 150th birth-day
by republishing a fac-simile of its first issue.
......The late rain storms in Pioche have
caused much interruption to travel and ren-
der important repairs constantly necessary.
..........A late sensational snake story is of a
reptile 4 inches long, of a greenish color,
which was found in an egg at South Bend.
......An innocent father in Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, carries love notes to and from a clerk
in his office for his daughter, whose com-
pany has been forbidden to the young man;
the funniest part of the joke being that the
father knows nothing of the correspondence,
while the news papers have found it out......
Four miners were occupying a cabin in
Pioche, which was struck by lightning; one
of the men was lamed in both legs; another
had one leg paralized and was struck deaf.
......An Alabama man captured and caged
an owl which its mate came nightly to feed
until it was also captured..A little boy in one
of the Southern settlements was chasing a
rabbit when it entered a hole in the earth,
into which the boy thrust his arm and
brought out a large rattle snake......Prince
Napoleon has been in Corsica and has taken
part in the deliberations of the Council
General of Ajacio......William M. Meredith,
one of Pennsylvania's most eminent lawyers,
recently died aged seventy-seven years......
Clemont County, Ohio, has a man living
who is one hundred and ten years old,
named Elijah Newton......The constables
lately got after Rev. W. H. H. Murray in
the Adirondacks, for killing deer, contrary
to the game laws of the State of New York.
.......A residence in the neighborhood of
Sandfordville was lately robbed and two
Poughkeepsie editors, who had gone there
for a breath of fresh air, were put under
surveillance as burglars......A druggist who
served in the army of Napoleon I, named
Elias Durand, recently died in Philadelphia.
......New York imported 142,877 barrels of
pork, 145,465,447 pounds of lard, 275,306,-
308 pounds of ham, between the 1st of
November, 1872, and the 15th of August,
1873......Virginia exhibits considerable ex-
citement over her "Black Man[-]s Party,"
who are trying hard to over-rule the whites."
A train on an Ohio railroad recently ran
over a farmer's wagon which contained
himself, his wife and two daughters; the
children were killed on the spot and the
mother died from the injuries received......
Terrible storms and lightning are prevalent
this year......A wet winter is predicted by
California conjurers........The Mason and
Hamblin organs got the "First Medal" at
the Vienna Exposition..........The "Daily
Graphic" suggests that "Judges sent to Utah
should first pass a competitive examination
in morals" preferring one who denounces
polygamy but practices bigamy.........The
Grand Central Hotel, in Omaha, is now
called the Pullman House in honor of Mr.
G. M. Pullman, of Palace car fame......
Twelve men were killed in Lincoln mine,
Sutler Creek, California on the 5th inst........
Portland is excited about the increase of
small-pox......Pioche is not as safe as it was
for villains since the late trials and convic-
tion of some of them......The dining table
of the Emperor of Russia is so arranged
that at the touch of a signal like the rubbing
of Aladdin's lamp, down goes the table
through the floor and a new table, loaded
with fresh dishes and viands, rises in its
place......It is estimated that the extent of
new railways built in this country in 1873
will be more than forty per cent. less than
for 1872......A national convention of the
different Italian societies assembled at St.
Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27th......The women
in Ohio want to vote on the new Constitu-
tion........Miss H. Chamberlain has been
elected Principal of the Newark (Del.)
Academy in the place of Prof. Porter who
resigned......A woman lately won her first
case as a lawyer in Chicago.


