EDITORIAL NOTES.	

	"Dolly Vardens" is the title of
political party that figured conspicuously
the recent California elections.
The Pope has been ill; once such a rumor
might have startled all Europe; now it
forms a brief paragraph for the newspapers.
Such is the change fine brings.
The British government on the 9th
Inst., through its agents Sir E. Thornton
and Mr. Archibald, paid the fifteen and
a half million dollars, awarded by the Gen-
eva arbitration tribunal to the United States
government.
Recently a man in Virginia City, 
Nevada, was fined $25 dollars for striking a
squaw in the face with an orange. We are
glad to see that even an Indian woman can
sometimes have justice done her. 
Trowsers with one leg is the latest
name given to the civilized feminine style
of dress. At least this is the appelation
used by the fair ladies of Persia to convey
their idea of a European lady's dresses.
Garrit Smith presented Susan B. An-
thony with some money towards paying the
fine imposed on her for practically testing
her right to a Constitutional vote; but in
our opinion spoiled the value of his gift by
depreciating fidelity to the Constitution.
Late Telegrams indicate that Peru is
determined to advance in education. Free
schools are established there, and the Peru-
vian Congres has passed a free school law
requiring citizens to school their children
or suffer the penalty of a heavy fine.
The Prince of Wales keeps at Marlbor-
ough House a mark-book in which is noted
the progress of his children in their studies
and their good deportment. One excellent 
plan that was practiced by his father, Prince
Albert, and one which other parents  might
try with good results. 
Severe injuries to a farmer and his
wife, the death of two of their children, a
horse killed and a wagon smashed to frag-
ments, were the results of the farmer's
trying to urge his team across the track just
before a coming train, near Galion, O.,
lately. The danger signal was given but
the engineer could not prevent the fearful
accident. A sad, and we trust a useful
warning to persons who, in their impatience
might attempt to run a similar risk.
A movement is reported [--] foot in St.
Paul, Minnesota, to lessen the social evil by
publishing in the city newspapers the names
of all who are known to visit houses of ill
fame. If the proposed plan be carried out
honestly it would be, we think, much more
likely to effect good results than the infa-
mous plan of licensing such places. And it
would be more likely to strike at the root
of the evil by holding up to public contempt
those who patronize and encourage prosti-
tution. 
Reports of seven fires in as many dif-
ferent places, not including the burning of
seven cars on an Eastern railroad, the loss
of twenty-five lives at Havana, where
parents threw their children from the bal-
conies to save them from the flames; and
the destruction of property loss by one fire
[new column]
not given, valued in the aggregate at
$800,212,00 was noted while glancing over
a morning newspaper; no particular issue
being selected. Is not the above significant
of the signs to appear in the last days?
The following may not be new to some
but we deem it too good to pass over:
M'me Bres has received the degree of
Doctor of Medicine, in France. Her certifi-
cate runs thus: M'me Bres, a married
woman and mother of two children, does
not study medicine as a pastime or by rea-
son of scientific vanity. She fulfils all the
duties of her profession. During both
sieges of Paris she never left the bedside o
our wounded soldiers.”   When woman,
to practical benevolence, courage and gentle-
ness, also adds the requisite knowledge
and skill, acquired by close application, she
may perform, deed that would grace an
angel of mercy."
One of our exchanges, “The Pioneer,”
actively San  Francisco weekly devoted to
the interests of woman has had an editorial
change; Mrs. E.P. Stevens after a five years
successful management retires from the edi-
torship, and Mrs. C. C. Calhoun assumes the
native duties of journalism with the follow-
ing line of conduct marked out, “viz; The
unflinching championship of Woman's Suf-
frage as it is understood before the world in
the right of woman to approach—and partic-
ipation in the privilege vouchsafed in the
imperishable Constitution of the United
States of North America—Only this and
nothing more, and this too, strictly and
“only within the law of the land we live
[--]
Persons should be very cautious about
trying to get on railway cars when in
motion, for even those constantly employed
about a train and who are supposed to be
familiar with its every movement are not
always safe. Several serious accidents in
this Territory have occurred through at-
tempting to get on or off the cars when in
motion, of which we are reminded when
reading a telegraphic account of a terrible
accident that occurred on the Lake Shore &
M. S. R. R. A young man employed as
brakesman jumped on a car which was
moving towards him, but his foot slipping,
was caught in the machinery and notwith-
standing his struggles to save himself he
was fearfully mangled, and death soon came
to relieve him of his sufferings. 
When people are about to build, though 
their means may be limited, they should
consider the probabilities and wants of in- 
door life; and while aiming to adapt their
dwellings as far as they can, to secure
ventillation, roominess and convenience,they
should also remember that the bed-room is
not or should not be the least important part
of the house; that a small back room will not
do as well as any place, while the front, best
and, perchance, the largest room is reserved
for occasional use when entertaining visit-
ors. When people take a proper amount of
sleep they spend on an average, nearly a
third of their lives in bed, and when sick
or perhaps suffering from an accident which
confines them indoors and most likely to
their chambers. they need all the invigorat-
ing influences that nature supplies in the
[new column]
form of fresh air, sunshine and pleasant
prospects. For these reasons, a southern or
eastern aspect should be preferred; the ceil-
ing should be high, and the mode of
ventilation as convenient and ample as is
possble; while the windows should be high
and free enough from drapery to admit
plenty of light and the carpets and furniture
not so good that the sunshine will be ex-
cluded for fear of spoiling them. Light is
a far greater curative agent than many
suppose. It is asserted that Sir James
Wylie, late physician to the Emperor of
Russia, having attentively studied the effect
of light as a curative agent, in the Hospital
of St. Petersburg, discovered  that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times those con-
fined in dark rooms.  This led to a complete
reform in lighting the hospitals of Russia,
and with the most beneficial results." Who
is there that having suffered with protracted
illness does not know the pleasure with
which the weary sufferer longs for, and
hails the coming dawn. Then let the sun-
shine in and with it more health and happi-
ness.


MORE THAN twenty years ago, the "New
York Gazette" published the following
argument, used by a canal stockholder, in
opposition to railways, which might now
be considered to have had a touch of the
"prophetic," in the main, though humorous
in style: "He saw what would be the
effect of it; that it would set the whole
world a gadding. Twenty miles an hour,
sir! Why, you will not be able to keep an
apprentice boy at his work; every Saturday
evening he must take a trip to Ohio to
spend the Sabbath with his sweetheart.
Grave plodding citizens will be flying about
like comets. All local attachments must
be at an end. It will encourage flightiness
of intellect. Veracious people will turn
into the most miserable liars; all their
conceptions will be exaggerated by their
magnificent notions of distances. 'Only a
hundred miles off! Tut, nonsense, I'll step
across, madam. and bring your fan!'—'Pray,
sir, will you dine at my little box at Alleg-
hanny?'—'Why, indeed, I don't know; I
shall be in town until twelve. Well I shall
be there, but you must let me off in time
for the theatre.' And then, sir, there will
be barrels of pork, and cargoes of flour and
chaldrons of coals, and even lead and
whisky, and such other like things, that
have been used to sober traveling, whisking
away like a set of sky rockets. It will upset
all the gravity of the nation. If two gentle-
men have an affair of honor, they have only
to steal off to the Rocky Mountains, and
there no jurisdiction can touch them. And
then, sir, think of flying for debt. A set
of baliffs mounted on bomb-shells would
not overtake an absconded debtor, only
give him a fair start. Upon the whole, sir,
it is a pestilential, topsy-turvy, harum-
scarum whirligig. Give me the old, solemn
straight-forward, regular Dutch canal—three
miles an hour for expresses, and two for jog
and trot journeys—with a yoke of oxen for a
heavy load. I go for beasts of burden; it is
more primitive and scriptural, and suits a
moral and religious people better. None of
your hop-skip-and-jump whims now for me."


