	FOUNTAIN GREEN, SANPETE Co., Utah,
					August 14th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—It is somewhat a late
date to report to you.
	Our Society was organized on the 11th of
June, 1868, and has been in a prosperous
condition ever since. We have donated
liberally to the poor in our ward and have
made them as comfortable as our means
would allow. We have also donated to the
Temple at St. George. We own $50 in the
capital stock of Fountain Green Co-operative
Mercantile Institution, and have, in the
Treasurers hands about the same amount.
	We have no poor in our Ward that are in
need. The word "Female" was dropped
from our Society at a meeting held in Decem-
ber 1872 by a unanimous vote of the sisters.
We hold our meetings regularly every
month, and a good spirit has always pre-
vailed, and we hope ever will.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor and
we wish it much prosperity. Our President
is upheld by her Counselors, Teachers and
sisters in general. The health of the people
in these parts was never better than at the
present time.
	Yours in the good work,
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON, President.
		ELIZABETH F. Johnson, Secretary.

	A report is given from the 3rd Ward in this
city, of a meeting held August 20th, at which
Mrs. W. Margarett Steel and Mrs. Emma
Wagstaff from the 1st Ward, and Mrs.Sarah
wheeler from the Sugar House Ward were
present. Mrs. Wheeler spoke of the beauty
and comfort she found in her religion, it
was everything to her and her great desire
was to live it and have her family live
according to its perfect principles.
	Mrs. Steel wished the circulation and
influence of the EXPONENT to be increased,
as she felt it to be a means of doing much
good among the sisters.  She hoped the
3rd Ward all attended the General retrench-
ment meetings held in the 14th Ward, all
should go there and hear the good instruc-
tion which were given. President Mrs.
Weiler said she always very much enjoyed
going to the sisters’ meeting in the 14th
Ward, wanted to see the EXPONENT well
[new column]
patronized and sustained. The members of
the 3rd Ward Relief Society were trying to
be faithful and diligent in the performance
of their duties. She hoped they would all
speak their minds freely, that their visitors
might not go away disappointed. Mrs.
Wagstaff said she felt at home among her
sisters of the Third Ward; spoke of the
calamities which were sweeping the earth,
and of the necessity of instructing the young
in the ways of life and of their religion;
they should be taught great care in regard
to the company they kept. Addresses
followed by sisters Fanny Smith, M. Blythe,
E. A. Gleason, M. A. Angel, Z. G. Eardley,
E. P. Weiler, E. Haynes and Elizabeth
Gregory. One of the sisters said her time
was so much taken up with worldly cares that
she had no time to read or write, and hardly
knew when Sunday came; yet she desired
to live her religion and hoped she did not
do wrong. Secretary Mrs. Eardly asked if
it was right for the time to be wholy spent
in the cares of those things which pertain
to this life alone. She often felt grieved
that she had so little time to spend in read-
ing and studying to gain intelligence and
lay up treasures of which no one could rob
her. The young ladies, meetings and Sab-
bath Schools were referred to and all were
advised to encourage and help them. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks; dismissed
with singing, and prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Fanny Smith.
	MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, President.
	MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY Secretary.

	From the Secretary of the Relief Society
in Paradise, Cache County, we have
received the following: “Our Society was
organized four years ago; the President,
Sister Jennie James, is energetic in her
endeavors to do good. At out last meet-
ing she spoke upon the necessity of the
sisters seeking to improve their minds and
gain understanding; and also of their useing
the abilities with which the Lord has blessed
them, in assisting to carry on His work.
She urged them all to take and read the
EXPONENT, and to write also, and help to
bear testimony to the world, that the
women of the Latter-day Saints are “truly
free,” that they speak and act and write with
freedom, and are not restrained by any
other power than that of their own con-
science and their own feelings and desires.
	And now I wish to give a few of my views,
humbly and in sincerity; for I believe that
the Lord now requires of His daughters
that they, as well as the Elders, speak in
defense of the Truth which He has revealed,
through His wonderous mercies and match-
less grace. I have been a member of the
Church twenty-five years; I entered it for
the sake of the truth, which I love. I have
lived in plural marriage, ten years, and this
order I know for myself was revealed by
God as a portion of a great plan of redemp-
tion for a fallen world. I do think that
every woman who has received the light and
made covenants in the house of the Lord,
should seek, with all the wisdom wherewith
she is endowed, to aid in spreading the glad
tidings of peace and salvation abroad, and
in allaying and transubstantiating the preju-
dice which exists against the works of God
in the Latter-days. I, for one, shall deem
it a great privilege if I, in my simplicity,
can say or write any little word that may
comfort or encourage, or in any way bless a
sister, or a friend, for my whole desire is
to do good in some way.
	You, dear Editor, and a few others have
braved the storm—God bless you! And
may we, your sisters, have courage to step
