R. S. REPORTS. 
	Spring City, August 5th 1873. We held
our annual meeting, June 6th, which should
have been held May 4th. but on account of
sickness which prevailed at that time,
meeting was dispensed with for fear of
spreading the fever, which seems to have
subsided now. President Olesen was pre-
sent; he spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters, said they had gone for beyond his
expectations, and thought they had done
exceedingly well under their circumstances.
He gave some very good advice.
	We have been taking your paper the
past year and wish to continue taking it, it
is a very good little paper and we wish it
good success.
We remain as ever yours respectfully
				Mrs. P. Benson.
		-------------------
	Meeting at Mendon, August 7th, 1873.
The meeting was openend in the usual
manner, by singing and prayer. After
which, Sister Maughan, of Logan, gave us
a very interesting discourse upon the duties
of the sisters, some of the chief points being
for them to take proper care of their chil-
dren, to train them up in the way they
should walk; to be careful and close their
doors before retiring to rest at night for they
knew not how soon some person, or persons,
who were not honest might make an
attempt to appropriate another’s property to
their own interest, or perhaps do worse; for
the sisters not to labor so hard, so that they
might enjoy more fully the spirit of their
calling. Her remarks were few and to the
point. Our President,Sister Elizabeth Willie,
then made a few very appropriate remarks
upon the principles of the Gospel; endors-
ing the remarks of Sister maughan. She
was followed by sisters Meria Baker and
Sophia Anderson (Counselors) who spoke
upon the necessity of our living our religion
and being obedient to the Priesthood.
[new column]
Sisters Hancock. Graham, Huges, Walker,
Sonne, Baker and Richards, each made
remarks, speaking on various subjects of
interest which were beneficial to those
present. The meeting was then dismissed
by singing and prayer. We wish the EX-
PONENT, success and its Editor prosperity,
	Yours 
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		E. J. BAKER, Clerk.
			——
	BRIGHAM CITY, August 10th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR—I appreciate your excellent
paper and know that many of my sisters
receive it it as a blessing, wishing it great
success and considering it an instrument of
great worth, in disseminating light, know-
ledge and truth, with every principle
calculated to enlighten, exalt, and prepare
us for a broader sphere of action; I wish it
a more extensive circulation. The mem-
bers of our Relief Society generally feel
well, and are ready to cast in their mites to
assist in the work which lies before us; we
raised upwards of one hundred and twenty
dollars this spring, for the special purpose
of assisting in gathering the poor, which,
with what we had previously gathered for
that purpose, amounted to over two hun-
dred dollars, this amount we sent to assist
in emigrating Saints this year, while we
are trying to do the best we can with our
means for the benefit of our poor at home
and our Society generally.
		HARIET A. SNOW, President
				--------
	August 11th, 1873. The Tokerville Relief
Societywas organized June 11th, 1868.
Wo have not made as much progress as
some, but as a Society, are trying to do the
best we can. The sisters are united in their
efforts to do good. We have helped the
poor at home and abroad, and donated what
we could for the building of the Temple, we
also have shares in the Washington Cotton
Factory and the Co-operative store at this
place—besides some means in the Treasury.
	Yours respectfully,
		SARAH M. WILLIS, President.
		FANNY SPILSBURY,
		ANN HIGBEE		Counselor
		ANNIE JACKSON, Secretary,
		ANN HIGBEE, Treasurer.
	DEAR EDITOR:—I send you a brief report
of a meeting held August 6th, 1873, at the
residence , of Brother E. R. Young, Sugar
House Ward, President Mrs. Sarah Gibson
presiding. After singing and prayer the
financial report for the past year was read,
and satisfactorily received. Much good
instruction was given and a good spirit
prevailed, many sisters bearing their testi-
monies, and expressing their willingness to
do all in their power for the upbuilding
of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
	With kind wishes for the success of the
EXPONENT, I am.yours affectionately,
		SARAH E. WHEELER, Secretary.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins, Secretary of the
Young Lady’s Rretrenchment Association
of the 4th Ward, favors us with minutes of
their Twenty-Second meeting, held in 4th
Ward Relief Society Room, July 15th, 1873.
	After the opening ceremonies President
Miss Mary E. Bailey spoke as follows: It is
a very difficult task for me to arise and
speak to you; still, I wish to do all that
is required of me; and as I am placed in the
position of President, I know it to be my duty
to set an example by speaking. If we come
to meeting with light hearts and determin-
ation to perform every duty, the Lord will
bless and help us. I would like all to attend
[new column]
the meetings in the 14th Ward as often as
possible. By listening to the instructions
given there, we are better able to speak to,
and instruct others. We miss our late
President much; feel that there is one
missing from the circle and that we have
lost a friend and a leader: for she did lead 
us with kindness: she encouraged and
helped us, and set an example we all should 
strive to imitate, by learning her lessons well, 
and attending our meetings punctually. We
will ask our older sisters to come in occa-
sionally, and talk to us and cheer us up. I
would like to hear each one speak a few
words. I want you to help me all you can, 
and let us be interested and do all the good
that lays within our power to do.
	Counselor Miss Ceelia Condie said: I am
pleased to meet with you again. I often
think of the instructions our late President
gave us, which we should try to remember
and profit by. Let us not indulge in
“novel” reading but rather read our own
Church books. I have neglected to read
good works as I should have done, but with
the help of the Lord I intemd to reform.
	Counselor Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins said:  If
we neglect our duty we are liable to grow
lukewarm and indifferent. I feel to sustain
our President and do all in my power to
assist her. I am satisfied that she will do
her best. Let us all try to speak; the Lord
has said of His servants, that if they stand
up and try to bear testimony, He will put
words into their mouths; and I think He
will do the same for us.
	Miss LoviniaHaigh made a short address.
	Miss Carrie Savill said she was pleased
with the meeting and would like very much
to become a member of the Society. Miss
Lizzie Edwards, Miss Hannah Jenkins; Miss
Sarah Jenkins, Miss Lucy Smith and Secre-
tary Mary A. Jenkins, each made a few 
remarks after Which, some new resolutions
wore read.
	President Miss Mary E. Bailey stated that
about the last request their President made
of them before her death, was to keep their
meetings, and what was said in them, per- 
fectly sacred; and Miss Bailey desired all
to remember it.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting, and meeting was adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us," etc.
	Benediction by Counselor,  Mrs. Mahalia
Jenkins.
				——
	Tho following is from Cedar City, Iron 
County, Aug. 12th, 1873.
	On Thursday, the 26th of June we held our
annual meeting in the Social Hall. Meeting 
opened, by singing,“Come let us anew” etc.;
Prayer by Counselor Annabella Haight;
singing, “Arise O glorious Zion,' etc; Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
The reading by the Secretary of the yearly
financial report showed that there was a
little means still in the Treasury and that
the articles donated had been economically
disbursed. Remarks by President Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker in which she advised the
sisters to donate liberally of their means to
help gather the poor; mothers to set a good
example before their children, to teach
them to pray and send them to Sunday
School, and recommended family and secret
prayer. Several of the sisters expressed
their willingness to help to gather the poor.
Benediction by Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.
	Accompanying the above report was an
address composed by one of the sisters and
read at the supper table of a Surprise party
given to their President, Mrs. Rachel
Whittaker, in commemoration of he[-] 5th


Birthday, in which the warmest feelings of
love and confidence towards that lady, as a
worthy pattern, were expressed.

	Report from Centreville, August 15th,
1873. Our Relief Society was organized
June 21st 1869, and reorganized Feb. 12th
1876 with Mrs. Margaret H. Randall Presi-
dent, Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs.
Emeline Smith Counselors, Mrs. Mariette
C. Adams Secretary and Miss Sarah L. Smith
Treasurer. As the place is small we don't
gather in as much as they do in larger
places, but the people have responded liber-
ally to the calls that have been made. The
President is ever willing and ready to
engage in any good work, and the sisters
that attend the meetings are united. We
feel that we have done some good in help-
ing the poor at home and abroad and hope
to do more in the years to come. A small
house with a piece of ground were donated
to us by Mrs. Margaret Cherry. By the
liberality of the brethren the house has been
enlarged and we have a comfortable place
in which to meet. The EXPONENT is a
welcome little messenger to us.
				M.C. ADAMS, Secretary.

	In Ogden on the 14th ult., a Relief Society
meeting was held, at which were present
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young and Mrs. L. Greene
Richards, from Salt Lake City; and many
officers and members of societies belonging
to adjacent settlements, forming, in connec-
tion with the Ogden Society, a large congre-
gation. The meeting was held in the 
Tabernacle. President Franklin D. Rich-
ards and other Elders on the stand, also
President Mrs. J. S. Richards with her
Counselors and other officers, and the visi-
tors. The congregation was addressed by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Elders P. Richard, F. D.
Richards and Bishop Thomas, the general
spirit of the teachings being for improve-
ment in all the ways of life. Miss Snow's
address will probably be given in full in
another issue of the EXPONENT.
	
	Minutes of the Sixty-Fourth meeting of
the Senior and Junior Co-operative Re-
trenchment Association, held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, August 16,
1873.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Joy to
the world;" Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E.
Howard: Singing, "An Angel from on
high."
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne remarked
that in looking over the congregation, she
thought how few were present in compari-
son with the number of ladies there were
in the city; considerable talking had been
done to the girls of late, but she thought
the mothers in Zion needed talking to quite
as much as their daughters; if mothers
would set their daughters worthy examples,
they would have all influence with them.
It seemed that the teachings were lost on
many, on account of their indifference, yet
it was the duty of each one who had received
knowledge of the truth, to use all the in-
fluence possible for the benefit of her
neighbor. The speaker referred to a meet-
ing she had lately attended at Ogden, in 
company with Sister Snow and others from
the city, and mentioned the number of young
ladies, one hundred and five, who belonged
to the Society of Sisters in Ogden. She
then gave the meeting into the hands of
the sisters, many of whom bore faithful
and interesting testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow said she believed
[new column]
it right and incumbent upon the sisters to
read good books and get all the useful
knowledge they could in relation to the
cause of diseases and how to treat them; in
as much as the Lord had endowed them
with faculties, it was for them to cultivate
and use them; but their chief dependence
and reliance, they should ever keep in mind
was in the power and spirit of God, and
that He alone was able to strengthen and 
preserve the works of His hands. When
young people could be made to understand
the spirit of the Gospel, they had no more
need to be warned against the influence of
the spirit of the world, it was as uncongenial
to their feelings as to those of older people
who realized its follies. If young ladies
were wanted who could be depended upon,
the Retrenchment Associations were the
places in which to look for them. Speaking
of the importance of the present day, Miss
Snow said, "Let every woman who  has
light within her, warn her neighbor, for
this is a day of warning.”
	The congregation sang “We thank thee
O! God, for a prophet.” Other addresses
were made and meeting adjourned for two
weeks.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow." Benediction by Counselor
Mrs: Z. D. Young.
		MISS M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

