			HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Sabbath Schools of Cache county are
preparing to have a grand jubilee at Logan
City.
	The Foundation is being laid for a fine illu-
minated clock, which is to grace the corner of
the Eagle Emporium.
	Madam De Barry has been entertaining
some of the lovers of music in this city with a
charming performance on the piano. Her
musical abilities are said to be excellent.
	A company of young men in the 6th Ward,
have formed themselves into a Mutual Improv-
ment association. It will be well if their
example is followed by many others; and if
rightly conducted, much general good will be
the result.
	On Monday evening, the 1st inst., the Sab-
bath Schools in this county were well repre-
sented at the monthly Convention. The
subject which received most attention was
that of the forth coming Mammoth Concert, the
exact time of which is not yet decided.
	The late visits and missionary labors of
President Brigham Young and party, through
the settlements of Bear Lake and Cache val-
leys, have been of a cheering and refreshing
nature to all concerned. The company returned
to this city on the 6th inst., according to ex-
pectations; all in good health and spirits.
	Work on the Utah Northern Rail Road is
being pushed ahead by the enterprising men of
Cache valley. Excellent grain crops have been
raised in that county this season. But the
people say the greatest difficulty is that there
is no "cash" in "Cache," and they find it rather
embarrassing at times, to have cash accounts to
settle.
	The Salt Lake Theatre has been undergoing
some material changes of late,, under the direc-
tions of its new proprietors, Messrs. H. B.
Clawson, John T. Caine, Joseph A. Young,
Thomas Williams and Le Grande Young,
who purchased it a short time ago, of President
Brigham Young. Many improvements are
being made in the interior of the house, which
is designed to open October 1st.
	There is considerable novelty in sitting
opposite some "strangers" on the cars, and
hearing them talk of what they have seen
during their short stay in Utah. A lady of this
city happened to be thus entertained while
traveling between Brigham City and Ogden a
few days since. It was a well known gentle-
man of Brigham City, who was being described
and the lady viewed the description as a very
flattering one. The stranger who had visited him
declared him to be fifty years old, and the halest,
heartiest man of that age, he had ever known;
adding very suggestively that he was the hus-
band of three wives and the father of twenty-two
children, the youngest of which was ten months
old and his seventeenth boy. The children
were as fine, rosy and nice as he had ever seen
—and it was repeated—the "Colonel" was such
a jolly old soul, as robust and well as any in 
the country.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow and the editor of the
EXPONENT visited Cache valley last week, and
met with the Relief Societies of several of the
principal towns; the object of the visit
being to circulate particular information con-
cerning the two classes being organized in this
city, for the purpose of preparing women phy-
sicians. They were kindly welcomed by
hospitable friends wherever they visited, and
large congregations assembled to listen to the
instructions given; which were varied and
interesting. Miss Snow was warmly congratu-
lated on having so successfully performed her
tour on the Continent and through the Holy
Land, of which she conversed with much ease
and satisfaction. The only inconvenience which
threatened the ladies, during a week's absence
from home, was an appearance of their being
obliged to "ride on a rail" from Brigham
Junction to Coriune. And even this chance for
an adventure was over-ruled by the timely
interference of Mr. Oliver Snow, who appeared
on the scene with horses and carriage. Miss
Snow admits that although very polite and
gentlemanly railroad men are to be found else-
where, those of Utah, surpass all others with
whom she has met. On the evening of the 9th
inst., she and her companion greatly enjoyed
a rich treat of very sweet singing from the
Wellsville choir, by whom they were seren-
aded.


