			ACROSTIO
	Addressed to our beloved Sister
			Eliza R. Snow
On her first visit to Provo City after returning from
			Jerusalem.

	Each faithful Saint, without a doubt,
	Love's courtesies would fain extend,
	In fact, although we may not shout,	Zion would welcome Zion's friend.
	As such no sister that we know,
	Ranks higher than dear Sister Snow.
	Sincerely then, we wish her joy,
	Nor, only wish but would employ.
	Our means, or ought, that joy imparts,
	Within our pow'r with all our hearts.
						Henry Maiben
			On behalf of the ladies of Provo City.
After which the choir sang "Sweet bye
and bye" with chorus, which was most
beautifully and effectively rendered.
	Benediction by Elder J. P. R. Johnson.
	Minutes of the 65th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, held August 30th, at the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing, "Arise O
glorious Zion." Prayer by Mrs. What-
mough. Singing, "May we who know the
joyful sound." The Secretary being absent
Miss Hattie Woolly was appointed to act in
her place.
	Minutes of the last meeting were read
and accepted. Also minutes of the 10th
Ward Junior Association. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne observed; that it is gratifying
and interesting to hear the minutes of our
young ladies' meetings. They show, to us
that our efforts, made under the direction
of President Young, have not been lost. I
[new column]
was particularly impressed with the second
hymn which contained a line taken from
the words of the Savior, "Be ye not hearers
of the word alone but doers of it also." It
is by "doing" the things which we are com-
manded that we shall gain blessings. It
appears to me that the people are losing sight
of the object for which they came here, and
that the spirit of the world has taken
possession of them. Our religion is prac-
tical, and unless we obey the principles
contained therein we will not be able to
endure and overcome the  trials which we
must pass through in order to obtain celes-
tial glory. The Lord says, "He chasteneth
every son and daughter he receiveth." We
must not forget that our covenants are just
as binding upon us at the present time, as
they were when we first embraced the gos-
pel. Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said; I
will give a brief account of my visit south.
Mrs. Howard and myself have been visiting
the various Relief Societies of some of the
southern settlements. We had large and
attentive audiences composed of both ladies
and gentlemen. The first meeting we
attended was held last Thursday in Provo.
On Friday we met with the brethren and
sisters of Payson, the former requesting the
privilege of attending, and I really think
the brethren need quite as much instruction
in regard to the design of the Relief Socie-
ties as the sisters. Saturday and Sunday,
attended a general two-days meeting at
Salem. The following day we met the
brethren and sisters at a meeting held in
the Bowery of that place; Tuesday held
meeting at Springville; Wednesday met
with their President and Board at Bishop
Smoot's residence and spent the afternoon
in an organized meeting. Thursday we
visited the Relief Society at Pleasant Grove;
and on Friday attended meeting at Ameri-
can Fork. In all those places I spoke of
our young ladies' organizations and of their
success. I told them the minutes of their
meetings were instructive to the old as well
as to the young, and that in associating to-
gether they have obtained the Spirit of God
which enables them to understand as we do.
I urged the necessity of our young men be-
ing organized. The Bishops seemed to see
that it was necessary tha something should
be done towards their improvement. The
young women of Payson have an organiza-
tion and while there we appointed a good
motherly lady Superintendent to whom the
young ladies could refer for counsel. In
other places they seemed to realize the im-
portance of something being done to save
those born in Zion. I, like Sister Horne,
do not believe in enthusiasm but believe
in being wide awake Saints. I remarked
in Springville that I liked whole hearted
Saints—those who could forget their selfish
interests and seek only for the advancement
of the Kingdom of God. Would we but
look upon things as they truly exist we
should find there should be but one mutual,
general interest. In a city of twenty thou-
sand inhabitants, the majority of whom
profess to be Latter-day Saints this room
should be filled to overflowing. This organiza-
tion, in connection with the Relief Societies,
is one of the aids in assisting the Kingdom
of God to attain unto perfection, and it is a
shame that these meetings are not more
appreciated by the sisters.
	The sisters of the various Wards have
accomplished much but not one tenth of
of their duties has yet been performed.
These Societies in their organization, are
designed to elevate and purify women; to
make our drughters ornaments in Zion, in-
stead of being the trifling, good-for-nothing
specimens of human life that, in too many
instances we see in our midst; to look after


the poor and administer to their wants,
which is an angelic service, is only a tith-
ing of what should be the result of these
organizations. If the people understood
this subject as Joseph Smith did, the moral
character of every woman, who is not a
member of a R. Society would be questioned.
It is the privilege of woman to give charac-
ter to society, and she does do it. As sure
as the sisters arise and take hold of the
work, the brethren will wake up, because
they must be at the head, and instead of
devoting their attention to the gaining of
temporal wealth which is perishable, they
will seek first the Kingdom of God, and let
the Lord add his blessings which he has
promised. Counselor Zina D. Young said:
dear sisters we have been truly blessed 
this afternoon in hearing the words of life
and salvation; they are just as binding upon
us as though they had  been given by pro-
phets. Were it not for tradition many
would hail the sound of the Gospel as a
priceless boon. Woman has much to do;
how active we should be in seeking to carry
out the work which is before us. I feel
grateful to God that our lot is cast in this
land and in this time. We should consider
ourselves blessed above all other women in
the world. Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Pixton
made interesting remarks after which
Counselor Mrs. Woodruff said: I feel like
expressing my satisfaction with the remarks
we have heard. We enjoy many priveleges,
and I would that we could more fully appre-
ciate them. For one I am thankful to be
permitted to have a name among this people,
who are or should be a light to the world.
Counselor Mrs. S. Kimball remarked that;
I am pleased with the privilege of adding my
testimony to what has been said. If I may
select any subject which has been more in-
teresting to me than another it is that
touching upon the necessity of understand-
ing the organization of the Relief Societies.
I know of no Ward that properly sustains
them and if there is a remedy I don't know
where to find it. I have thought the sisters
were benefitted by meeting together and
interchanging ideas. Sister Horne once
suggested that we send missionaries to the
different Wards. Mrs. Mary. R. Thompson
observed, that she had always felt a deep
interest in the Relief Societies and was
pleased to hear so good a report from the
southern settlements. Mrs. Whatmough
spoke of the interest she had felt for the
daughters of Zion. The young ladies of the
19th Ward were once organized into a Re-
trenchment Society, but their President had
now left the city and for some time past
their meetings had been discontinued. She
felt very anxious to have them reorganized,
being willing to open her house for them to
hold meetings in, supplying lights and fire
during the winter. Counselor E. R. Snow
said: My sisters, here is an opening to do
a work of salvation. We all desire to do
good, but we have got to take some tangi-
ble points. It is good to fast and pray but
we must combine some particular acts with
our faith. In our efforts to produce a reform
among the young we met the greatest
opposition from those who should have been
saviors on Mount Zion. Let every mother
encourage the movement spoken of by Mrs. Wat-
mough. Our young people know nothing of the
power of the Gospel. In the early days of the
Church, children as well as parents possessed the
Spirit of God. Let every sister realize that she
is called to be a savior on Mount Zion, and en-
gaged in the work of salvation which is needed in
our midst every day. It does not do to only think,
feel, and talk but we have got to succeed in our
aims, and so sure as the young ladies become
Saints, the young men will exert themselves to be-
come Saints. I am thankful that we have one
organization of young men in our city. After short
and very interesting remarks from others...the
meeting adjourned for two weeks, after singing,
"Wake O wake the world from sleeping," and
benediction by Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young.


