POLYGAMY.

	Writing upon this subject, Mrs. Dumway, 
edeitor of the "New North West," hopes to
hear from us "when Mrs. 2nd comes along."
She also ventures that we "will then desire an
interview with Judge McKean."
   We presume the lady is very sincere in her
manner of viewing things. But sincerity in
belief is no proof of correctness.
	If we were wanting to be divorced, we would
be likely to appeal to some one who could
accomplish the matter in a more satisfactory
way, and with less noise than our judges are
in the habit of doing; thinking the instructions
of ancient Paul still worthy of consideration,
in which he says to the Corinthians: "Dare
any of you having a matter against another,
go to law before the unjust, and not before the
saints?"
	Mrs. D. makes farther suggestions, which we
take in good part, as they were intended, and 
will endeavor to meet fairly and honestly. 
She says: 
   "We are not of those who rank the polygamic
women of Utah with adulterers. From their
stand-point they are remarkably virtuous, yet
our short stay of one week among them, while
it endeared us to many for their noble heroism
and genuine hospitality and goodness of heart,
revealed to us in individual cases such poig-
nancy of grief, especially among first wives,
whose husbands had found other loves and
founded other families, as we hope never again
to meet anywhere.  As we write there rises up
before our mental vision the pale image of one
of these victims of the lusts of men, miscalled
religion, whose earnest appeal through us to
her relatives in Portland, for means to get
"anywhere out of Utah," that she might be
able to get her daughters away from the blight 
of polygamy, haunts us yet. Our Utah friend
is a very valuable 'Exponent' of the equal
political rights of women.  Will she be kind
enough to tell why, if polygamy is right for
men, that it is a one-sided institution? Why
is it not as necessary for wives to have more 
than one husband, as for husbands to have 
more than one wife?"
   If "individual cases" may be taken as a stand-
ard by which a people and their principles are
to be judged, it is but necessary to glance
at the news columns of a daily paper to find
sufficient evidence to condemn the world with
no exceptions.
	Are those sympathies which are so accute
when awakened in behalf of polygamic wives,
less alive to the griefs of such women as Kate
Stoddard, Mrs. James Fisk, Mrs. Critteuden 
and thousands of others, the records of whose
wrongs without redress are daily published to
the world, while yet not a fourth is told?
	We wonder if  one pale victim's relatives 
in Portland were ever searched out, and if they
sent her means to get herself and daughters out
of Utah with. We hope they did; for that, 
indeed, would look like sympathy with som-
substance to it.
	Now we are requested to tell why if polgamy
is right for man, it is not right for woman in
the same way.
	Without consulting Christian views in the
least, a little sound reflection upon the laws of 
nature, should be a sufficient reply to such a
question. But taken into a religous considera-
tion, we may answer by asking, when Laban
gave Jacob his second daughter, Rachel, why
did he not furnish Leah with another husband?
We take Mrs. Duniway to be a Christian, and
suppose she believes and understand her Bible.
	We regret that our limited space will not
permit of farther expression now, but we may
refer to the subject again.


IN France there are in use half a million
donkeys, and in Italy 400,000. These hardy
little beasts do all the hardest of the work.


