[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]
Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. Rice. A large proportion of the inhabitants of the earth use rice as their staple food. The Chinese and Japanese use no other grain for ordinary diet purposes. They use rice with fish or with a little meat and bamboo shoots made into chop suey or as a straight vegetable. It is incredible to witness the feats performed by husky rice-eating Chinese laborers. Chinamen can lift four times the weight that the ordinary white man could lift and run for miles with such weights on their shoulders. The Chinese acrobats, and the Japanese soldiers acquire a wonderful physique through their simple rice diet and rigid physical culture methods. It is true, however, that the grains which are indigenous to the country in which people live usually form the best and most logical food stuffs for the inhabitants. Rice is an ideal food for tropical countries and it is a very fine substitute for bread and vegetables in temperate climates under certain conditions; while it is delicious as a varient of the ordinary diet. Just now rice is cheaper in proportion to its nutritive qualities than potatoes and many other vegetables. As a summer substitute for breakfast mushes it is invaluable. Children soon love rice which should be served without sugar and with the whole milk only. Grocers offer rice at different prices, but housekeepers should beware of rice that has been too vigorously cleansed from the outer coating for much of the nutriment lies next to the covering as it does in wheat. The cheaper grades of rice are, therefore, more desirable for ordinary use than the more highly cleansed varieties. It is better where possible to purchase rice in quantities as there is very little deterioration and the difference in price is worth while. Rice keeps well indefinitely, if closely covered so that insects cannot reach it. Rice has the least fat in it of any of the grains. It is good as a heat giver and, therefore, can be used by working people advantageously. Preparation. Much of the unpopularity of rice is the result of extremely poor methods of cooking. Where rice is put on the stove in warm water and stirred all the time it is boiling, it comes out a sticky mass that is unpleasant to the eye and to the taste. There are two ways of cooking rice perfectly:
