[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony - Gleaning in Alien Fields]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in April. GLEANING IN ALIEN FIELDS. Reading: The Book of Ruth. References: Kitta's Palestine. Part III, and McCurdy's History, Prophecy, and the Monuments, Chapter II, Smith's Old Testament History, Geikie's Hours With the Bible. The general conditions that prevailed in Palestine at the time of Ruth, the Moabitish maiden, are what we shall be concerned with in this lesson. Israel was then ruled by judges. There was therefore no centralized political government, with a single recognized head. If we may accept the statement of Josephus on this point, Eli was the religious head of the Israelites at the time of Ruth. Later, this part of their being kingless whereas all the surrounding nations had kings, was a source of an unworthy embarrassment to the people, and as Samuel, who came after Eli, gave them a king. But in the prophet, who constituted their religious head, the descendants of Jacob had a strong centralized religious power to which they all looked for guidance. We have something like this in our day in the fact that, looking at the matter in a religious light merely, Latter-day Saints who live in the various states of the I'nion, the European countries, and the ocean isles all look to President Joseph F. Smith for spiritual direction. The Children of Israel were not alone in Palestine. It is true that on the west of the Jordan river they occupied the greater [•art of the country from Dan on the north to Beersheba on the south— a territory of about one hundred and seventy-five miles olng by about fifty miles wide. Even here, however, there were Canaanitish towns the inhabitants of which they either could not or did not expel. But on the east of Jordan were the Moabites and the Ammonites, descendants of Lot and his two daughters. Before and after the time of Ruth, it seems, there existed considerable bitterness of feeling between these peoples and the Jews. But at the time of which we are now speaking it would appear that the two were on friendly relations. Palestinean towns do not appear to have been large during this period, although they are called "cities. "Cities" in those days were like the early Bible "kings" — small and of little consequence. Canaanitish towns, which were later occupied by the conquering Israelites, were walled, and this fact accounts for the difficulty the latter had in taking them. These walled towns alone were secure in those troubulous times of war. "The streets of Eastern towns are always exceedingly narrow, that the shadow of the houses may keep them cool; and the appearance of these streets is dull and uninviting, as the houses do not front the road." None of the streets in Jewish towns at this time were paved. The towns of this period, from an absence of public buildings, must have been rather mean in appearance. Public transactions often took place at the gates of towns. In Abrahamic times tents were the only habitations we read of as permanent dwellings. There is an occasional refernce, however, to huts, or booths, "small dwellings made of green or dry branches of trees intertwined, and sometimes plastered with mud." On entering the Land of Canaan, the Israelites almost of necessity occupied the houses from which they had.driven out their inhabitants. "These appear for a long time to have been poor and low, and built either of sun-dried mud or unhewn stones; timber for building being scarce in that country; and hence the employment of it in large quantities, as in some of Solomon's buildings, was a sign of costliness and magnificence." There was no glass in the windows; they were latticed to give free passage to air and a degree of light, at the same time excluding birds and bats. "In winter the cold was kept out by thin veils over the windows, or by shutters with holes in them sufficient to admit the light. No ancient houses had chimneys." Articles of furniture were few and simple, because of the fact that the people in Palestine spent much of their time out of.doors. They sat mainly on mats, crosslegged, although raised seats were not unknown. "The beds consisted of mattresses and quilted coverlets, laid upon the floor at night, and stowed away in a recess by day. Sheets, blankets, and bedsteads are not known in the East." Every family ground its own corn, using for this purpose two stones, the upper of which was turned round and had a hold to allow the grain to be put through. Like most Eastern people, the Israelites were plain and simple in their food, which consisted chefly of bread, vegetables, fruits (green and preserved), honey, milk, curds, cream, butter, and cheese. Meat could hardly be called an ordinary article of food, except among the higher classes of the people dwelling in towns. The use of animal food was, indeed, restricted in some degree by the law, which allowed the flesh of no beasts to be eaten but such as chewed the cud and parted the hoof, nor any fish but such as had both fins and gills. These restrictions rendered itdifficult for a strict Jew to eat with a heathen. The hog 
 was not forbidden more especially #than many other animals; but being the only unclean beast the flesh of which was usually and commonly eaten, its absence from the diet of the Jews attracted more attention than any other prohibition. Poultry was but sparingly used. The only domestic birds kept were pigeons and the common fowl. Bread was baked, not in loaves as with us, but in rolls or flat cakes. There were no knives or forks used in those days, the food being conveyed from the dish to the mouth by the right hand. This is why the hands had to be wased before eating. The principal meal was after the labors of the day were over, although "a kind of lunch, consisting of bread, milk, cheese, etc., was taken in the forenoon." When the Hebrews "ate from a table, they used seats; but when they sat on the ground, the meal was laid on a cloth spread on the floor, with a large piece of leather under it, to prevent mats or carpets from being soiled." It was only after the captivity that the Jews learned from the Persians the art of reclining at the dining table. Wine, though greatly diluted, was commonly drunk during meals, as the cistern water often became polluted and unfit to drink. Feasts and entertainments were frequent, at which the guests were anointed with precious, perfumed oil wh'l ejests. riddles, singing, music, dancing, and story-telling were indulged in. On account of the divine prohibition against painting, drawing, or carving the image of anything, we have less accurate information concerning the dress of the Israelites than of anything eise in their social life. But "we may conceive the figure of a Jew, viewed externally.as that of a fullbearded man, clad in a long and loose garment with large sleeves, which was confined to the person by a girdle about the loins; the neck bare, the feet protected by a piece of leather strapped to the sole, and the head cither bare (as it seems very often to have been), or covered, among the higher classes, by a kind of turban, and among the common people, by a piece of cloth thrown over the head, and confined by a fillet around the brows." In action, the "arm was made bare." and "the loins were girded" by drawing up the skirts. The appearance of the Jew. however, varied with circumstances, '•'as when a large, loose, shapeless garment was thrown, like a cloak, over the dress which has been described." On the four corners of this article of clothing it was common to have "a fringe with a piece of blue tape,' 'to remind them that they were a peculiar people. All these dresses, excepting this outer garment, were of linen or cotton, this latter being of wool and hair. Stockings and socks were not in use. Most persons went entirely bare foot, except in winter or upon a journey. The wealthier classes wore sandals out of doors, except during mourning. The Israelites allowed the hair and beard to grow. "Baldness in men not old was rare. The hair was dressed and anointed with much care, especially at festivals. "Women appear to have enjoyed considerably more freedom among the Jews than is now allowed them in Western Asia, although in other respects their condition and employment seem to have been dissimilar." In Ruth we read of women eating with men — the only instance of this kind in the Bible. Daughters, In Abrahamic times, as we have seen, tended their father's flocks. The first task of the day usually was to grind corn and to bake. Peasant women gathered fuel and carried water from the wells, which were usually on the outskirts of town. The clothes used by the family were made by the women members, as also were the tapestries for bed-coverings. Among the women of the poorer classes the dress "was probably coarse and simple, and not materially different from that which we now see among the Bedouin women, and the female peasantry of Syria. This consists of drawers, and a long and loose gown of coarse blue linen, with some ornamental bordering wrought with the needle, in another color, about the neck and bosom. The head is covered with a kind of turban, connected with which behind, is a veil which ovrces the neck, back, and bosom. We may presume, with still greater certainty, that women of superior condition wore, over their inner dress, a frock or tunic like that of the men, but more closely fitting the person, with a girdle formed by an unfolded kerchief. The hair was worn long and, as at present, braided into numerous tresses, with trinkets and ribbons." Ear-rings were also worn, and nose-jewels of gold or silver, and bracelets and armlets. Marriage and the rearing of children were extremely important among the Israelites. Engagements were contracted by Hie fathers. If a man died, his widow was given to his brother or nearest of kin, and the firstborn son belonged to the deceased. Divorce was not allowed by Moses except for adultery, which sin was to be punished by stoning the offender to death. Plural marriage, despite the assertions of some Biblical scholars to the contrary, was not only permitted but enjoyed by the divine law. To be barren was "a reproach." Children were "the heritage of the Lord," and "blessed" was he who had his "quiver full." The child remained with the mother till it was five years old, when it was delivered over to the care of the father to be taught the Law. Often the well-to-do employed the services of a private tutor. The Israelites, like all Orientals, were marked in the expression of their varying moods by outer signs. The men when equals, kissed one another's beards. The kiss of respect or homage was on the brow. Kissing the feet of the person rev- 
 erenced was common. "The Lord bless thee," was a familiar greeting, as in Ruth. The Jewish modes of showing insult appear to us childish, as for instance, spitting upon the beard, or plucking off the hair, or putting a man to do a woman's work, or clapping the hands, kissing, thrusting out the tongue and making a wry mouth, or crunching the teeth and wagging the head. The most intolerable insult, however, was to cast contempt upon a man's mother. QUESTIONS. 1. What kind of political government did Israel have at the time of Ruth? 2. Were there any other people in Palestine besides Israelites? Explain. 3. Tel labout Israelitish towns. 4. Describe the houses of the people in those days. 5. What and how did they eat? 6. Why do we not know more about the dress of those people? Describe their dress. 7. Describe some of their marriage customs; the care of children. 8. Tell of some of the ways the Israelites had of expressing contempt. BIBLE LESSON FOR JUNE. "Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth." Doctrine and Covenants, Section 21 — 57.