[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: CharityA Gem of Facets]
Throughout the world wherever there are Latter-day Saint women, almost without exception, there is a Relief Society organization. And for what purpose? To minister to those who are sick and in want; to give encouragement to the weary and heartsick; to strengthen the weak in the faith; to save souls. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith, himself, established our society for these purposes. For, said he "It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and _benevolence."
Through the wise leadership of women of the past, the scope of Relief Society has ever broadened and widened, but charity is, has been, and always will be, the true spirit and genius of the Relief Society organization. It was inculcated by the Prophet in its beginning, and has been reiterated by the leaders of the Church and by the leaders of the organization. Appropriately, the organization chose for its motto: "Charity Never Faileth." Too often we think of charity in terms of the physical needs of people, of giving something big and generous, but Paul says, "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor... And have not charity, it profiteth me nothing" (I Cor. A3). Page 722 kind.
Charity is a gem of many facets.
Caring for the material wants of our brothers and sisters is only one of these facets. So, while we continue to do the big and generous things, let us also remember to do the little, everyday acts of charity which add luster and brilliance to the gem of charity. You Relief Society workers who can accept release from office and continue to: be active, kind,. And helpful, manifest real charity. You mothers who maintain homes where kindness: and patience. Are taught and practiced, do 'so with charity that suffereth long and is It is important for us to give tenderness and understanding to the weary and heartsick.. The officers of Relief Society. Are constantly called upon for such service. We cannot all be officers but, we do not have to be set apart to do good. And though we can not all be officers of Relief Society, we can all be members. A good Relief Society member will seek out these needy souls and minister to their needs. Is there a blind sister in your ward who would enjoy regular attendance at Relief Society? Who guides her to the meetings?
Maybe your neighbor has had an experience that has made her bitter and sharp tongued.
Have you tried to brighten her up with a friendly visit, perhaps taking with you a glass of your delicious jelly or your new recipe for cookies?
Many today are CHARITY—A GEM OF MANY FACETS truly sick at heart and need all the tenderness. And understanding possible.
Building up the morale of a sister, giving her a desire for the things of the spirit, are quite as vital as food for her physical body.
Often one of the devices of the evil one to destroy our happiness and our usefulness is to bring a spirit of contention into our midst. Sisters, the way to keep free from contention in our society, in our homes, or in our cominunities, is to develop charity.
There can be no contention where there is charity.
Seek out and find the good in your fellow men. AN artist, not long ago, was giving a talk on art appreciation to a group of women. He exhibited some pictures for their consideration. One picture was especially admired by the group. The artist said, "Point out some of its defects." Then, on second thought, he added, "Perhaps I had better not ask you to do that, or you might think more about the defects than the good points, and so your enjoyment of the picture would be marred.", Is this not also true in regard. To human affairs?
When faults, or even the failings of an individual, are pointed out, they then seem to stand out more prominently than the virtues. We all cherish ideals of some sort, and most of us like to idealize our friends. It comes, therefore, as a shock when the uncharitable person begins to show how faulty the idealized one is in his estimation.
When this experience has been repeated a few times in life, one begins to look upon all 723 people with more or less suspicion. How much better to think the best of others and to put into daily practice the thing so needful to make life desirable and beautiful, that great command, "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you." That, and the command which the Savior designated as the greatest of all commandments, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength," and "thy neighbor as thyself," are precepts which form the very foundation of a beautiful and charitable life.
Those who are striving with all their might to fill their lives with good thoughts and noble deeds have little time or desire to criticize others or hold up another's faults for inspection. Who among your acquaintances are the most charitable towards the shortcomings of other people? Is it not those whose lives are most nearly perfect? Relief Society members, as a rule, are among the best women of the earth in observing these principles, probably the very best. But, sisters, we.
Must ever be on guard, to continue to do so. We are told in Holy writ, "... The tongue is an unruly evil." (James 3:8). ENVY, spite, and petty jealousies are the emotions which give rise to many of the hateful little things that are said and done, and the damage done to a reputation or to the happiness of some sister by an idle word is ofttimes irreparable. Unkind, cutting remarks have a deteriorating effect upon some people.
Kind words, and a little apprecia- 

 —NOVEMBER 1953 tion, are as helpful and as needful to most people as is sunshine to most plants. It has been said that people who appreciate us can do almost anything with us. The Savior had the seeing eye, the understanding heart that could detect the good and the beautiful in everyone. He always emphasized the loveliest thing in man or animal or nature. He made people respect themselves, and they held their heads higher, feeling that there was hope in life. He showed charity toward those who were outcasts, because he could see something worthy in them. It is a worthwhile experiment to use his method to search out and emphasize the good that is often buried so deep that few see it. Sisters, in these days of anxiety and strain, let us regard one another with tenderness, love, and sympathy; let us not feel that charity is only for the officers of Relief Society, or to be exercised by special assignment in order to get credit for so doing; let us continue to be thoughtful, kind, and good; let us seek with greater interest, greater enthusiasm, and greater love to be good Relief Society members, living up to our motto "Charity Never Faileth."
