[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: For Wages]
Only the Lord, who knows all our intents as well as our actions, is cognizant of the wages we are receiving. Of two neighbors living side by side in affluence, one may be paid in the wages of eternal life, the other in the wages of sin. Of two neighbors living side by side in poverty, one may say to himself, if I had I would give to the poor, and receive wages of eternal life; the other, secretly coveting another's "FOR EVERY MAN RECEIVETH WAGES" wealth, may be earning the wages of sin. Man cannot judge.
Neither can one man judge the wages of his neighbors by the calamities and trials he may be called upon to suffer. The Lord has said he will have a tried people and that those whom he loves he chasteneth. But some may ask, if we are called upon to suffer when we are good, why should we strive for wages from the powers of good rather than wages from evil? 'The latter often appear very alluring and attractive. But Alma reminds us:...
Whatsoever is good cometh from God, and whatsoever is evil cometh from the. Devil. Therefore, if a man bringeth forth good works he hearkeneth unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but whosoever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a child of the devil, for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him. And whosoever doeth this must receive his wages of him (Alma 5:40-42).
Wret is there which each person who follows the Good Shepherd will be paid to manifest to his own soul that he hearkeneth unto the voice of the Good Shepherd?
There may be other wages, but one which is paramount is that gift given to us by the Savior before he left mortality. In the upper chamber, before he crossed the brook Cedron on his fateful way to Gethsemane, the Savior, surrounded by his beloved eleven apostles, promised: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27). He who is paid by the Good Shepherd,- in the lonely hours of 721 silent darkness though 'he be in the anguish of sorrow, will still have an untroubled heart and be unafraid as he bares his soul to his Maker. On the other hand, the wretched soul whose master is Satan, will never find the peace that passeth understanding, unless he repents. The wages of goodness awaken the soul to better living, hour by hour.
Thus the faithful Latter-day Saint woman has feelings of charity for the fatherless, the widow, the distressed, and the discouraged. She goes about doing good, loving her neighbor. She studies the scriptures and increases her understanding by learning. Her charity never faileth. | Brigham Young warned: The best woman that ever lived on the earth has only just made her escape from this world to a better one, with a full assurance of enjoying the first resurrection. It requires all the atonement of Christ, the mercy of the Father, the pity of angels and the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to be with us always, and then to do the very best we possibly can, to get rid of this sin within us, so that we may escape from this world into the celestial kingdom (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1925 edition, page 93).
Since this is so, how carefully we should observe the great commandments given to women on motherhood and service, how zealously we should train and guide our children in the paths of righteousness, how anxiously we should strive to enlarge our souls to love our neighbors as ourselves. How humbly we should hearken to the voice of the Good Shepherd, and follow him that we may receive the wages of eternal life, 'That we may all do so, I pray.
