[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Report and Instructions]

Report and Official Instructions [Digest of an Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] President Belle S. Spaftord N bringing to you.
Today a brief report of the status of the Relief Society as.
Shown in the annual report for 1952, together with a few official instructions, I first wish to acknowledge the splendid leadership with which the society ls blessed at this time in the stakes and missions of the Church. I also wish to pay tribute today to the members of Relief Society—the tens of thousands of faithful women who loyally lend: their support and co-operation to officers, devotedly accepting assignments and carefully fulfilling them regardless of the amount of time and work entailed. Narrative Reports _ The narrative sections of the annual reports, as well as correspondence received at the general office, together with reports of general board members, indicate obedience on the part of our sisters to the Priesthood authorities who preside over them; they disclose extensive support of stake and ward building programs and other activities initiated by stake presidents and ward bishops.
They show substantial cooperation with welfare committees in obtaining and supporting welfare projects. General Boar«| Since our last general conference three members of the general board have found it necessary to be relieved of their general board re- REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS sponsibilities: Sister Achsa Paxman, who has served in this capacity for thirteen years, for health reasons; Sister Lillie Adams, who has served for seven years, who has been called to missionary work; and Sister Alta Vance, who served for five years and whose personal circumstances made it necessary that she be released. We deeply appreciate the contribution of each of these sisters to the work of the society. We are favored in having five new members added to the general board: Sister Gladys S. Boyer, Sister Charlotte A. Larsen, Sister Edith P. Backman, Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring, and Sister Elna P. Haymond. We know you will learn to love and appreciate these sisters.
Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1952 there was a total of 196 stakes, an increase of eight over the previous year. 'There was a total of forty-one missions, a decrease of one over 1951. (The Chinese Mission was closed.) There were 3,312 ward and branch societies, an increase of 135 over 1951. Missions Mission Relief Societies are to be congratulated on their progress. The percentage of potential members now enrolled and the increase in average attendance at regular meetings are particularly gratifying. The visiting teaching program is being continuously expanded, and organizations are drawing strength therefrom. The Magazine circulation has increased. 'There were twenty missions on the Honor Roll.
Sewing and homemaking activities, the 725 compassionate and other welfare services, aS well as the educational program, are receiving careful attention. Membership Membership figures for the society as a whole show consistent growth. We now have 140,354 enrolled members, an increase of 7,903 over 1951. We are deeply grateful for membership increases. Average Attendance There was an average of 49,255 women, Or 35.09 per cent of the total membership in attendance each week at the regular meetings.
This was a slight increase over 1951. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching is growing in extent and_ effectiveness. 'There Were 2,240,244 visits made in 1952, an increase over the previous year of 184,441.
These visits were made by 52,989 visiting teachers, an increase of 3,780 over 1951. 'These figures represent a _ tremendous strength within the society that may be drawn upon to further some of its most important purposes. Educational Program During 1952 there were 85,497 or 60.9 per cent of our members who participated in leadership activities. Of this number 11,360 were engaged in teaching the prescribed courses of study.
Educational courses are designed to provide wellrounded, educational development for Relief Society members and to strengthen their testimonies of the gospel.
During the forthcoming year we urge theology leaders to be painstaking in directing discussions 726 so as to build testimonies of the divinity of the Messiah. We are convinced that The Book of Mormon reading project has contributed greatly toward this goal.
Reports from 206 stakes and nineteen missions indicated that 61,695 women, or forty-four per cent of the membership, have read the section of The Book of Mormon covered by the lessons for the first two years of the course. 'This was an increase of 16,995 over 1952. We have been led to believe that better methods of keeping count would show that a greater number of women have actually read the Book of Mormon than has been reported to us. We urge a more careful accounting for 1954.
Favorable reports are coming in regarding the literature course.
Members are finding in the study of English literature enlightenment and enjoyment. We have learned of two stakes which have had the members choose their favorite selections from among those studied in 1952.
These have been mimeographed and prepared in attractive booklet form for distribution to members.
These booklets reveal the discriminating taste of the sisters and disclose that the literature is becoming a part of their lives. The new social science course, "The Constitution of the United States," should be enthusiastically received by class leaders and members alike.
This study should deepen appreciation of the struggle for freedom which preceded the adoption of the Constitution and give to the sisters a knowledge of the basic constitutional doctrines and concepts which safeguard our liberty. We feel this to be an extremely important and significant  course of study for our members at this time. Work Meeting Figures for 1952 show the work meeting to be the poorest attended of any of the regular meetings.
This poses a problem for stake leaders in stimulating ward leaders and in suggesting to them ways and means of attracting the members. Counselor Simonsen has said: The possibilities of the day are as broad as a homemaker's life.... We need to teach each other to sew, cook, darn, and mend. We need to help each other to learn new and better methods of home management and more efficient and economical ways of performing homemaking tasks....
Thoughtful and long-range planning is the key to successful work meetings.
Viewed from the point of its value to the sisters, the work meeting should be among the best attended of our meetings, but whether or not it accomplishes its purpose depends, in large measure, upon those who plan and conduct it. Church Welfare Throughout the Church the sisters continue to give excellent support to the Church Welfare program. We call to your attention once again the importance of having sisters who are assisted through the bishops sew for themselves rather than to draw from bishops' storehouses articles made by other sisters. An important part of your work is to train the teachable to sew. Compassionate Services The compassionate services show a gratifying increase.
There was a total of 209,894 visits to the sick and homebound, an increase of 16,336.
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
There were 22,504 or an increase of 868 eight hour days' care of the sick given on a volunteer basis upon assignment of ward Relief Society presidents. 'The number of funerals at which Relief Society assisted was 6,474, an increase of 522. We appreciate the attention being given the aged and suggest that you do not lose sight of services Relief Society might render to those with some special affliction such as blindness. Nursing Activities As you know, throughout its lifetime of more than a century, Relief Society has regarded the care of the sick as a very vital and fundamental part of its work. In view of the general shortages of nurses today, we encourage you to provide instruction wherever possible in home nursing for Relief Society members. We suggest that you consult your local Red Cross Chapter to ascertain whether or not it is in a position to co-operate with you in conducting such classes. We also hope you will acquaint yourselves with available opportunities for both practical and registered nurse training and encourage sisters who are interested, qualified, and suitably situated, to take nurse training. We suggest that prospective enrollees of any nurse training course check with their local hospitals to make sure that the course they select will make them eligible to take State examinations and obtain a license to practice the type of nursing for which they have trained. Responsibility in Nursing and Domestic Service The question is frequently asked 727 as to the financial and other responsibilities of Relief Society in cases where prolonged bedside nursing care is required. 'The general board encourages the sisters willingly to help one another, particularly in times of emergency or where immediate, temporary assistance is needed. However, we do not think the sisters should be required to assume prolonged and burdensome tasks of nursing and domestic service on a volunteer basis upon assignment of the Relief Society president, except in cases of unusual emergency. Relief Society conforms to the policy of the Church that the family should do its utmost to help itself, both through its own financial resources and _ through family members and _ relatives. Where families can afford to do so, they should make their own financial arrangements to meet their responsibilities, and Relief Society should co-operate in helping to find persons to perform the required service. In cases of persons who need continuous or prolonged nursing care or domestic service and who cannot meet such needs from their own financial resources, the matter should be referred to the bishop who is responsible for the welfare of ward members. As you know, Relief Society is now relieved of maintaining or administering a fund for welfare purposes. Quilt for Emergency Use In 1949 the general board recom- - mended that all ward and branch Relief Societies keep one quilt on hand for emergency use only, the materials to be provided from Relief Society funds. We repeat this 

 —NOVEMBER 1953 recommendation at this time. We regard it as provident, motherly management for every ward and branch Relief Society to have a quilt on hand that might be used either for an emergency within the ward itself or elsewhere by the Church. Relief Society Magazine We greatly appreciate the excellent support given The Relief Society Magazine. We are very grateful for the large number of stakes and missions, mission districts, wards, and branches that attained position on the Magazine Honor Roll in 1952. We all know the importance of the Magazine to the society and to Latter-day Saint women and we acknowledge the outstanding service of Magazine representatives. Honor Roll to Be Limited It is with sincere regret that we now find it necessary, because of the ever-increasing number of Relief Societies and the limited space in the Magazine, to limit the Honor Roll listing in the Magazine. It will no longer be possible to include in the Honor Roll the names of wards and branches. 'The general board will send to the stakes and missions their respective Honor Rolls, which will list the wards and branches achieving seventy-five per cent or more of their enrollment, and the general board will recognize wards and branches in the stakes at the annual Relief Society conventions. We also suggest that these societies and also branch societies in the missions be honored within their own respective stakes or missions by stake or mission officers.
Perhaps the preliminary part of a spring union meeting (or in the missions a district meeting) might be thus used.
Wards may recognize their Magazine representatives and any who assist them at a spring work meeting. 'The Honor Roll sent you by the general board will provide the necessary information for stake and mission recognition. 'This change in the publication of the Honor Roll will not affect the award subscriptions. Indian Relations We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the devoted service rendered by many of our sisters to the Lamanite women living within their respective stakes. As you know, the Lamanite work, along with that of other minority groups in the stakes, is now incorporated in the Stake Missionary Program. 'There are no longer Indian relations committees.. The jurisdiction has been changed to the stake missionary committees. However, the work remains the same and must go forward. Sisters, do all in your power in support of the missionary program.
Acquaint your stake president with any service you feel the society might render the Lamanite sisters and do all you can to create love for them and an understanding of their needs. In those instances where, in conformity with the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, page 13, stakes have appointed as a stake board member a sister especially for Indian relations work, this sister may now be used in meeting any assignments related to the In- REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS dian program coming to the board from the stake president, along with any other special assignment you may wish to give her.
Upon the retirement of this sister from the board, however, the Lamanite work assigned to Relief Society should be carried by those remaining board members best qualified to assume it, with no new appointment being made to fill the vacancy. No appointment to the stake board should hereafter be made for the minority group. Financing Program It has become a tradition with Relief Society that the society independently meet expenses incurred in the conduct of the work. We are pleased to note that during 1952 the Relief Societies were able adequately to maintain themselves financially, functioning according to recommended procedures and meeting operating costs. We find the sisters very resourceful in their fund-raising activities. However, we remind you again that fund raising is not one of the primary purposes of Relief Society. It is not the intention that the societies should create for themselves large treasuries at the expense of overworking the sisters or at a cost of burdening ward members who are already heavily drawn upon financially to support other Church activities, nor should they engage in fund-raising activities that are out of keeping with standards, purposes, and character of the society. I also refer you to the letter on commercial selling sent to stake Relief Society presidents under date of May 11, 1953. 729
Entering into Contract With Commercial Companies We have recently had reports of Relief Societies being solocited by commercial companies to enter into contract with them to engage in certain projects such as the distribution of a cookbook or calendar. We advise all Relief Societies not to sign any contract without first consulting their Priesthood authorities.
Wards should also consult their stake Relief Society presidency and they, in turn, may refer the matter to the general board. Monthly Reports We note a number of stakes calling for rather detailed monthly reports from their respective wards. We caution you with regard to this practice.
Information essential in the successful conduct of the work can, in practically every instance, be obtained through the annual reports or through the regular channels whereby we acquaint ourselves with the work in the wards. General Board Endorsements It is our understanding that occasionally you receive letters or citculars urging your support of programs or activities sponsored by persons or groups outside Relief Society. If such programs are endorsed by the general board, the letter or circular will so indicate. Sisters, we thank you for the excellent service that you are giving to Relief Society. We pray that the Lord will bless you with health and strength and ability to continue your good work, that you will find joy and satisfaction in your labors.