[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: After Much]
Qjroin   I  Lear  and  G/c 
The  Reliei  Society  Magazine  for  Aug- 
ust came  today,  so  I  haven't  enjoyed 
every  morsel  of  it  as  yet,  but  felt  I  should 
express  to  you  a  deep  appreciation  for 
the  two  lovely  articles.  Dr.  Edwards' 
"Living  More  Abundantly  on  Your  In- 
come" should  be  read  by  every  parent 
and  child  old  enough  to  understand.  I 
would,  however,  in  all  seriousness,  like  to 
have  Dr.  Edwards'  menu  when  he  states 
that  he  can  feed  a  family  of  eight  to  a 
healthful  breakfast  for  fifty  cents  in  these 
days.  Mrs.  Longden's  "Family  Home 
Hour — ^Maker  of  Happy  Memories"  is 
lovely.  It  contains  many  excellent  sug- 
gestions to  make  families  enjoy  this  liDve- 
ly  occasion  to  the  fullest.  As  a  family 
we  find  our  family  hours  very  necessary 
and  wholesome.  Our  five-year-old,  Freddy, 
is  the  finest  master  of  ceremonies  and 
delights  to  call  on  each  member  of  the 
family  for  a  "part."  Even  nine-year-old 
Chris  has  taken  his  turn  at  the  piano  as 
accompanist,  for  our  family  song  fest. 
— Frances  C.  Yost 
Bancroft,  Idaho 
In  answer  to  Mrs.  Yost's  question  on 
a  breakfast  menu,  Dr.  Edwards  suggests 
the  following:  "The  typical  breakfast  in 
our  home  .  .  .  costs  about  50c.  It  in- 
cludes orange  juice  or  tomato  juice.  Sister 
Edwards  makes  marvelous  tomato  juice, 
and  of  course  it  is  an  excellent  breakfast 
food.  We  then  serve  a  substantial  bowl 
of  whole-wheat  cereal.  We  buy  wheat 
and  have  it  in  storage  ....  We  eat  the 
cereal  with  whole  milk  and  without 
sugar."  —Ed. 
I  think  you  have  just  published  a  true 
masterpiece.  I  don't  know  when  I  have 
ever  read  a  more  soul-stirring,  beautiful, 
and  uplifting  story  than  "The  Refuge"  by 
Margery  S.  Stewart  in  your  August  issue. 
The  artistry  in  it  is  superb.  If  people  of 
the  world  could  only  read  and  vicariously 
experience  something  like  that  as  I  ex- 
perience it  each  time  I  reread  that  story, 
how  much  better  the  world  could  be.  I 
think  this  story  is  a  rare  and  beautiful 
gem — truly  great  literature  that  speaks  to 
the  souls  of  each  of  us.  Thank  you  so 
much  for  publishing  it. 
— H.  Carma  Winterton 
Roosevelt,  Utah 
ar 
Grace  M.  Candland  Jacobsen,  of  Provo, 
Utah,  died  in  August  1953,  at  the  age 
of  eighty-one.  Author  of  many  poems, 
stories,  and  articles,  she  was  greatly  loved 
for  her  inspirational  writings  and  for  her 
kind  and  sympathetic  personality.  Her 
work  has  appeared  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  over  a  period  of  many  years. 
She  was  a  member  of  the  Provo  Chapter 
of  the  League  of  Utah  Writers. 
The  Magazine  is  very  much  appreciated 
here  in  Tasmania  where  we  are  so  far 
away  from  Church  headquarters.  I  have 
been  a  member  of  the  Church  for  thirty- 
two  years,  having  joined  when  I  was  six 
years  old,  and  now  that  I  am  a  widow 
with  four  young  children,  the  Church  and 
all  that  it  stands  for  are  a  great  source 
of  strength  to  me. 
—Rita  Pugh 
Launceston,  Tasmania 
I  like  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  be- 
cause it  is  part  of  our  home.  It  has  given 
us  many  happy  hours  reading  the  variety 
of  fine  literature  it  has  to  offer — spiritual 
admonitions,  poetic  inspiration,  practical 
information,  and  wholesome  reading  ma- 
terial. There  is  inspiration  in  each  and 
every  page  for  both  young  and  old.  I  find 
it  a  great  help  in  cooking,  sewing,  enter- 
taining, and  home  management.  "Notes 
From  the  Field"  keep  us  informed  with 
what  is  going  on.  "From  Near  and  Far" 
often  gives  the  name  of  a  friend  or  a 
loved  one,  and  is  just  like  getting  a  letter 
from  home. 
— Ardella  Hackford 
Covina,  CaHfornia 
Words  cannot  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  Magazine  and  the  high  quality  of 
material  it  contains  each  month.  It  seems 
that  the  further  we  are  from  the  center 
of  the  Church,  the  dearer  the  Church  is 
to  us,  and  the  auxiliary  organizations  and 
the  publications.  We  have  had  a  fine 
branch  here  in  Tehran  and  some  very  in- 
spirational Relief  Society  meetings.  Our 
conference  in  March  was  especially  fine, 
I  thought. 
— Mrs.  Helen  Milligan 
United  States  Embassy 
Tehran,  Iran 
Page  714