[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Just for the Season]
Courtesy  Florist  Information   Council 
cJhanksgiving   'JDinner  cbuggestions 
Ethel  C.  Smith 
"C^OR  hundreds  of  years  people  in  many  lands  have  held  harvest  festivals.  The  Ameri- 
•*•  can  Thanksgiving  Day  probably  grev^'  out  of  the  harvest  celebrations  of  England. 
The  first  Thanksgiving  Days  were  indeed  harvest  festival  days,  when  people  thanked 
God  for  the  plentiful  crops. 
In  the  United  States  Thanksgiving  Day  is  usually  a  family  day  celebrated  with 
a  spirit  of  gratitude  and  joyous  reunions  with  loved  ones.  For  many  of  us  the  very 
mention  of  Thanksgiving  calls  up  nostalgic  memories  of  old  farmhouse  kitchens  and 
pantries  crowded  with  good  things  to  eat. 
Our  Thanksgiving  dinner  this  year  may  be  simple  or  elaborate,  but  whatever  it 
is,  let  us  remember  with  love  and  compassion  in  our  hearts  those  whose  tables  are 
bare,  and  let  us  be  deeply  grateful  for  what  we  are  privileged  to  enjoy. 
If  turkey  is  to  be  the  main  attraction  at  your  Thanksgiving  dinner,  be  sure  it  is 
brought  to  the  table  golden  brown,  juicy,  and  well  done.  To  flavor  the  turkey,  a  good 
stuffing  is  a  necessity.     Here  is  the  recipe  for  one  that  is  a  favorite  with  us: 
Page  753

754  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1953 
Stuffing  for  the  Turkey 
4  c.  bread  crumbs    (use  dry  bread  and  i  tsp.  powdered  sage 
grind    it    with    the    coarse    knife    of  i   tsp.  salt 
the  grinder)  pepper  to  taste 
Vi   c.  finely  ground  onions  Vs  c.  butter 
Simmer  the  ground  onions  in  butter  over  low  heat  until  they  are  soft  (do  not 
brown).  Mix  together.  If  not  moist  enough,  add  a  little  warm  water  or  stock  in 
which  giblets  are  cooked. 
This  stuffing  may  be  varied  by  adding  any  one  of  the  following.  When  this 
is  done,  the  amount  of  sage  shown  above  should  be  reduced. 
1  c.  finely  chopped  celery  Vi   pint  drained,  chopped  oysters 
1  c.  boiled  chestnuts,  chopped  chopped  cooked  giblets 
Vi   c.  chopped  celery 
SALADS  are  most  often  an  accompaniment  to  the  main  dinner  course,  and  as  such, 
they  should  be  light  and  of  medium-sized  portions.  The  ever-popular  grapefruit, 
orange,  and  avocado  crescents  make  a  tangy  salad  to  serve  with  turkey.  This  is  espec- 
ially good  served  with  the  following  French  dressing: 
French  Dressing 
1  tbsp.  sugar  K   c.  vinegar 
1  tsp.  salt  54   c.  salad  oil 
Vz    tsp.  dry  mustard  i  tsp.  (or  more)  finely  slivered  onion 
/4   tsp.  paprika  Mix  together  and  shake  well 
dash  of  pepper 
Molded  Cranberry  Sauce 
1  pound  (4c.)   cranberries  2  c.  hot  water  2  c.  sugar 
Wash  and  pick  over  cranberries.  Add  water:  cook  covered  for  10  minutes  or  until 
skins  pop.  Strain,  add  sugar,  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Pour  into  ring  molds  and 
chill  until  firm.  Unmold  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Fill  center  with  salad  made  of  diced 
apples,  chopped  celery,  diced  pineapple,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  to  which  has  been 
added  stiffly-whipped  cream  and  some  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans. 
Vegetable  Salad 
Mix  well-seasoned  cream  cheese  and  chopped  pecan  nuts.  Fill  green  peppers 
which  have  been  cleaned  and  dried.  Chill  and  slice.  Garnish  with  mayonnaise  to 
which  has  been  added  some  finely-chopped  parsley  and  a  few  slivers  of  pimiento. 
To  a  salad  made  of  sliced  peaches  and  bananas,  and  green  seedless  grapes,  add