[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The]

Social Science—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 4—The Forerunners of the Constitution of 1789
Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, February 23, 1954
Objective: To trace the history of government in the United States beginning with the colonial charters to the issuance of the Declaration of Independence, through the loose confederation of states which fought the Revolutionary War, and culminating in the founding of a National Government. NY study of the Constitution of the United States would be incomplete without devoting some attention to the practices, institutions, 7

 —NOVEMBER 1953 A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA and documents which formed a great American laboratory of experience in government and out of which the Constitution, as we know it, emerged. It has been pointed out that, historically, the Constitution is principally of Anglo-Saxon origin, and reference has been made to some of the great historical events and developments which preceded it. The following deals more specifically with the background materials with which the framers worked and _ concerning which they had had actual experience. Political Background of English Colonists When the American colonists, who were almost all of English origin, came to this country, they, of course, brought with them the institutions of government which they had known in England.
This was both the obvious and natural thing for them to do.
These institutions are part of a common heritage which is common to all English-speaking «peoples.
Many such ideas and institutions are still current. To name a few will suffice.
Thus the county, borough, and parish were governmental units of almost ancient origin. The sheriff, coroner, and justice of the peace were offices of government playing well-known and definite roles in the old country. The ideas of popular elections and of a_ representative legislature, limited executive power, LESSON DEPARTMENT the common law, jury trial, habeas corpus, the right of the people to assemble and to petition government, and of equality under the law, were but some of the concepts of government which came to these shores with the first settlers. 'They all stemmed in the England of the Bill of Rights and Magna Charta.
Formation of Colonial Charters Of necessity, the colonies, when settled, had to have governors. 'The colonial charters of various forms were the fundamental basis for such governments.
Some were royal grants of authority from the English crown.
Some originated under companies chartered to trade in the New World.
Other developed under individual proprietors. In all, they formed the pattern of state governments which are, to this day, known in all the forty-eight states.
Examples of the proprietary charters were those which were conferred upon William Penn and Lord Baltimore, the founders of Pennsylvania and Maryland.
Virginia was founded by a trading company which planted the first colony at Jamestown. On the other hand, Rhode Island and Connecticut had charters which were directly conferred upon the colonists by the English government.
Growth of Independence With the establishment of the framework of government as embodied in the charters, the colonists proceeded largely to govern themselves with little or no restraint from abroad. 'They were not backward in exercising independence.
They enacted laws and executed them with very little restraint or 779 interference. By the time the home government became seriously aware of their existence, the habit of independent action had become so strong that all attempts to control it were doomed to failure. The colonists, in the beginning, had no thought of establishing an independent government or of severing their connection with the mother country. 'These ideas came later and grew out of the rather clumsy attempts of the English Crown to impose authority upon the new colonies.
These attempts caused friction which deepened and grew as time went on until, finally, the government of George III decided to employ force to bring the Americans under, what George III and his ministers considered to be, the natural authority of the government which had created the colonies.
After all, had not the powers of government been conferred upon these colonists by British authority? And was it unreasonable to suppose that the power which had created these various governments should have some control over them? Furthermore, were they not all under the protection of the British military forces and thus obligated to pay at least a part of the cost of their protection? The final result of these disputes and clashes was, of course, the Revolutionary War. In exasperation and almost in desperation, there came a parting of the ways. The Declaration of Independence The break with England did not come about as the result of any desire of the colonists to discard the great institutions of government 780 |  which they had brought with them to this country, nor because they did not look upon themselves as Englishmen. Rather, the © break came because these people would not tolerate what they regarded as the persistent violations of their tights as Englishmen. The Declaration of Independence was nothing more than a statement of grievances and a recital of what the colonists regarded to be the basic and fundamental rights of free men, and, in particular, of free Englishmen. It is to be observed that by the time of the Declaration of Independence the colonists had come to think of the colonies no longer as such, but rather as free and independent states. 'The Declaration itself is couched in terms of independent sovereignty.
Thus these colonies were declared to be independent states. It is highly recommended that the Declaration be read, because it is a document of tremendous significance of freedom; and it details in wonderful and concise language those fundamental concepts of freedom which had come to be regarded by those early Americans as indispensable.
Reframing of Colonial Governments In 1775, with the Revolution just beginning and the consequent severance of the authority of the British crown, it became at once necessary for the local governments. Of the thirteen independent states to assume independent authority. At first these governments (and it must be borne in mind that, as yet, there was no national union) functioned under their legislative bodies or conventions which were hurriedly assembled. For the most part these assemblies were of a more or less irregular nature with no actual or clearly defined authority. 'They were temporary expedients to fill a gap until each state should have time to deliberate and reconstruct its government. 'Ihe Continental Congress advised each colony to effect such a reorganization along the lines most suited to its own particular needs. In some instances—notably in the cases of Connecticut and Rhode Island, which had very liberal charters, few changes or modifications were necessary. | In any event, each colony went about the process of reframing its government, and by 1780 this had been accomplished.
Most of the state constitutions which resulted were rather short.
They defined the source of authority as the people themselves, and made liberal provisions for the protection of civil liberties.
Under most of them suffrage was rather sharply limited to property ownership. Also, it is noteworthy that there was a very sparing grant of authority to government. The experiences of their recent past were such as to discourage any sweeping or broad power over the people.
These state constitutions also followed the common pattern of dividing the functions of government among the executive, the legislative, and the judicial.
Especially were the powers of the executive limited.
Only in one case—that of Massachusetts—did the governor have an independent veto power over the legislature. In ten instances his term of office was for only one year. The legislatures, on the other LESSON DEPARTMENT hand, enjoyed rather extensive powers. First Continental Congress Fall of 1774 On the national level, the first organized attempt at government was the Continental Congress. Its first meeting was held in Philadelphia in the fall of 1774. It consisted of delegates, irregularly chosen, from each of the states. Its purpose was to consider the common peril and to plan co-operation among the colonies.
Resolutions were formulated for the various legislatures to consider, and a declaration of rights was adopted and provision was made to call a similar congress if the need should arise in the future. Second Continental Congress May 1775-1781
Before the Second Continental Congress convened in May of 1775, the war had actually commenced. In the absence of any other authority this second Continental Congress had to assume. The powers of a national government and to Taise armies and wage war. 'This Congress was the only national governing body in existence, and it served as the sole national authority until 1781. It was never more than a revolutionary assembly. It had no legal basis for existence, and it exercised power only by having assumed it with the tacit consent of the various states. It met the needs of a temporary emergency, without which the Revolution would never have been brought to a successful conclusion. 781
Need for National Government It was soon recognized that there was a need for a national government. When the war should end it would be necessary to make provision for treaties, especially a treaty of peace with Great Britain. Commercial intercourse and trade among the nations would require the management of foreign affairs. Some arrangements for national finance, military defense, and other requirements made plain the necessity for a permanent national government. In short, out of a very practical situation was born the idea of a strong and enduring union. Out of this situation developed the concept of an American nationality. 'These necessities were to find expression in the Articles of Confederation of 1781 (to be studied in lesson 5), and in the Constitution of 1789 (to be studied in lessons 6 and 7). In conclusion, let none suppose that the art of self-government is learned overnight. Under the colonial charters and out of actual experience extending back into the ancient past, were developed the foundations of democracy which finally culminated in the Constitution. References Any good history book dealing with this period or an encyclopedia. Bowen, Albert R.: "The Constitution and the United Nations Charter,' The Relief Society Magazine, August 1951, pp. 507-511; September 1951, pp. 580-585. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp. 281-288. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Name the various types of government which existed in colonial America.