[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: DIVERSIONS. | Author: J. G, B,"]

			DIVERSIONS.
	THE man question.—What is he worth?
	WHY is a new-born baby like a gale of
wind? Because it begins with a squall.
	WHAT is that which goes from New York
to Albany every day and yet never stirs?—
The turnpike.
	WHAT is the difference between a jewel-
ler and a jailer? One sells watches and the
other watches cells.
	A LITTLE boy asked a lady who made her
teeth."My Creator," she replied. "Well,"
said the youngster, "Dr. —— made my ma's,
and they beat your'n clean out o' sight."
	A LADY having brought a suit to recover
a chignon from a hair-dresser with whom
she had left it for repair, her little boy
wanted to know "if that chignon was what
is called 'hair-at-law?'"
	MARYLAND girls wont marry in the full of
the moon, believing they would have ill-
luck through life, but a Massachusetts girl
wouldn't let forty full moons stop her ten
seconds.
	A YOUNG dandy, who sported an enor-
mous mustache, asked a lady what she
thought of his looks? "Why," said she
"you look as if you had swallowed a pony,
and left the tail sticking out of your
mouth."
	AT a collection recently made at a charity
fair, a lady passed the plate to a very wealthy
man who was well known for his stinginess.
"I have nothing," was his curt reply. "Then
take something, sir," she answered, "You
know I am begging for the poor."
	"Do you enjoy going to church now?,,
asked a lady of Mrs. Partington. "La, me,
I do," replied Mrs. P. Nothing does me so
much good as to get up early on Sunday
morning and go to church, and hear a popu-
lous minister dispense with the gospel."
	"I DON'T like these shoes," said a lady
customer, "because the soles are too thick."
"Is that the only objection?" blandly asked
the salesman. "Yes," was the reply.
"Then, madam, if you take the shoes, I can
assure you that the objection will gradually
wear away."
	THE first Marquis of Huntley, on his first
arrival at court, forgot the usual tribute of
obeisance, and was asked why he did not
bow? He begged his Majesty's pardon, and
excused his want of respect, by saying, he
was just come from a place where everybody
bowed to him.
	"A MEMBER of our Legislature," says an
Ohio paper, "who was on a dead-head excur-
sion out on the plains, lost his pass, and had
to walk seventy miles before he could find a
man who had sufficient confidence in his ap-
pearance to lend him money to telegraph
home to his wife to sell the cooking-stove
and remit him the proceeds at once."
	A SUBURBAN minister applied to a ticket
agent on one of the railroads for a "clergy-
man's ticket," and on the official expressing
a doubt  to his clerical character, exclaim-
ed, "If you don't believe I'm a clergyman,
I'll read you one of my sermons!" The
agent gave him a ticket without insisting
upon the proof.
	SMART reply.—A humorous fellow being
subpoenaed as a witness on a trial for an as-
sault, one of the counsel, who had been no-
torious for brow-beating witnesses, asked
him what distance he was from the parties
when the assault happened; he answered,
"Just four feet five inches and a half."—
[Column 2]
"How came you to be so very exact, fellow?"
said the counsel. "Because I expected some
fool or other would ask me," said he, "so I
measured it."
	A WASHINGTON paper tells this good
story about Hon. S. S. Cox, the irrepressible
Congressman from New York City. The
other day Cox was unusually active, spurty
and irrepressible in the House. He was
continually at the front, "catching on the
fly," and rampaging round generally. Fi-
nally, when the House came to an agreement
to proceed with the debate on the salary bill
in twenty minute speeches, Cox despatched
a page with the following note:
	"Dear Mr. Speaker.—Put me down for
twenty minutes.				S. S. C.
	To which the Speaker replied;
	"Dear Cox.—I would be delighted if I
could keep you down half that time.
J. G, B,"


