THE PRIVILEGES AND RIGHTS OF
WOMAN.
	What is woman suffrage and what will it re-
quire of them? Go to the polls two or three
times a year deposit a ballot and come
away. That part of their duty will take per-
haps four or five hours in the course of a year.
That is all the majority of the voters do now,
they go to the polls find the regular party
ticket and put it into the box. If they are of
an independent turn of mind they perhaps
scratch out a few names and insert others, hav-
ing done this they return to their farms or
place of business of whatever nature, and wo-
men would return to their household duties.
But if this is all;—what is gained by woman
suffrage? At first the gain would be very little,
perhaps most women voting the same as hus-
bands, brothers, fathers and sons, so that it
would only be an increase in the vote, but
the more important results of woman suffrage
would follow later. When women have the
right to vote, they will find it their duty to ex-
amine public and political questions, they will
read, study, and talk about them with hus-
bands and sons, thus woman will become the
fellow worker with man in this matter as she
has become his companion in many other
things.
	In the savage state woman is the servant
and man is the master, in the Oriental state
she is the plaything of man, in both these steps
of development she is regarded as an inferior,

[Column 2]		
being incapable of holding equal companion-
ship with her lord and master. But in the
third step of human progress which came from
the alliance of Christianity with the Teutonic
races, woman rose into a near state of equality.
This change has been going on until she now
shares with man in his education, his amuse-
ment, his work and his religion, and who
can doubt that this co-operation gives us a
much higher type of society. All that we ask is
that another step be taken in the direction,
that woman shall become the companion of
man in his political and public duty as she has
in almost every other. And now we ask: Why
should one half of the people be excused from
taking part in these great and important
duties? Why in a government of the whole
allow one half to try its talent in the earth?
I maintain that in a government like ours wo-
men have no right to be excused from taking a
full share with men in public affairs.
	When God made man and woman He made
them companions and as they have had more
companionship society has improved. Why
should it make woman less womanly to deposit
a vote, than to put a letter in the post office,
women mingle with men in the streets,
churches, theatres, balls and parties, they nurse
men in hospitals, sell to them in shops, this
does not make them less feminine, why should
voting? To my mind it would improve family
life as it has already, by common work by
common interest.
	The present Queen of England has taken a
more active and controling part in the politics
of her realm, than any of her predecessors and
no one has shown more domestic affection and
interest in her home. By husbands and wives
studying public questions together, her views
will be enlarged and his improved, it would be
a new education to both. Among the ignorant
classes we hear of shocking brutality of hus-
bands to their wives, this is because they take
a savage view of them and treat them more
like slaves than wives, give her the vote, let
man see that she has become a person of im-
portance, that his political leaders treat her
and other women with deference because of
their votes, and he will be necessarily led to
treat her so himself.
	This may seem nonsense to women who live
in comfort and elegance, who are treated with
courtesy and respect, whose every wish is to
those about them a law, but let them remem-
ber that there are women burdened with
labors, treated with brutality and regarded as
having no rights but nevertheless may be in-
telligent and worthy of a better lot in life. I
was talking with a gentleman to day who
asserts that woman’s home indirect influence
is all in all, that they are a power behind the
throne and that they can do more in this silent,
secret way than any other, I say unless this
means that they influence men to vote as they
wish, it has no bearing on the question; it
means that they do exercise a political influ-
ence privately and secretly, then history shows
that this a dangerous sort of influence. It is
a power divorced from responsibility, women
have under Monarchies used such secret in-
fluence, but it has usually been disastrous
having no responsibility for what they did,
they used their powers of persuasion to procure
measures for their own interests and that of
their families with little thought of public
good. No doubt many women have used a
legitimate influence without voting but why
should they not do all this and vote?  Echo
answers why. Respectfully,
