SANPETE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, was held at Ephraim,
in the meeting house, Friday, March 14, 1890.
Pres. M. A Hyde presiding. On the stand
were Pres. O. Peterson and Counselor Beal, of
the stake presidency, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, also Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and Pres. Hyde's counselor, Mrs. Sarah Peter-
son, and several presidents from different parts
of the stake, the Bishops of each ward in
Ephraim and Pres. Allred, of Y. M. M. I. A.;
of the stake. Meeting opened at 10 a.m. with-
singing

	"Glorious things are sung of Zion."

	Prayer was offered by Counselor Beal,
singing again,

	"O ye mountains high."

	Pres. Hyde made a few opening remarks,
alluding to her recent visit to Salt Lake City
and the great changes that had recently tran-

[Column 3]

spired there; also spoke of her long and
varied experience in the Church, stated it was
more than fifty years since she was baptized,
and referred to her acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others.
	Mrs. R. Wareham, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Manti, represented the society favorably, spoke
of the liberality manifested in giving, thought
there were some indifferent in regard to de-
velopment and opportunities of doing good,
and felt they would yet look back with regret
on such neglect; thought we should all strive
to make good use of our time, and if we do
not, great will be our loss. Spoke of the vast
work done by the Relief Society in many
places in erecting halls and granaries; felt
thankful that she, too, had been fifty years in
the Church this year; was baptized in 1840.
She spoke in warm praise of the presidency of
the Relief Society in the stake, Sisters Hyde,
Peterson and Allred, and of Sister M. W.
Snow, who was a mother in the Temple, whom
she had enjoyed the privilege of laboring
under.
	Mrs. Sarah Tuttle, the next speaker, had also
been a long time in the Chnrch, testified that
since she had been in the Temple, she had been
more spiritual, but was more out of the habit
of speaking, had been working in the Temple
ever since it had been opened, gloried in the
work for the dead.
	Mrs. Ann Lowrey reported, South Ward,
Manti, as the president, Mrs. E. Casto was not
able to attend the Conference on account of
her health. She rejoiced to see the Saints of
all nationalities coming to the Temple; they
must have faith or they would not come as
they did in crowds; thought we should teach
our children to be virtuous, pure and prayer-
ful. We need great wisdom to do the duties
well that are assigned to us.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow felt happy to be
with the sisters here in the Conference, and
never felt better in the latter-day work, she
could see the hand of the Lord in what was
transpiring on the earth; knew of a surety
this was the work of God. She was baptized
when seventeen years of age and was now
nearly sixty-nine years old; felt glad to be one
of those to come and take part in this work;
wanted to fill her mission and be ready to go
when her Heavenly Father called. Since
being engaged in the Temple work she seemed
almost to live in the spirit world; made other
interesting remarks concerning Temple work.
She then urged the sisters to do all in their
power to make their homes happy, and a
heaven for the husband and children. Help
those who are weak, take them by the hand
and lead them onward, let us throw around
our children and others a saving influence;
said some very excellent things in regard to
training children. Spoke of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph in
Nauvoo and its onward progress. Never think
of our trials but be valiant and never reveal
the keys and blessings we receive here.
	Mrs. Anderson, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Ephraim, spoke upon humility and the bless-
ing of the Lord, represented the sisters in her
ward as good and faithful; peace and harmony
prevailed, though there are trying times, and
and we should do whatever we can to help one
another.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson rejoiced greatly
in the work being done in the Temple and felt
there must be a great rejoicing on the other
side of the vail, felt happy in the work of the
Relief Society, was sure much good was being
accomplished in many directions, if we are
not so prosperous in temporal things, this is a
day of feasting upon spiritual things; made
many other remarks comforting and en-
couraging to all present.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m., singing,

	"Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear,"


[Column 1]

	﻿Dismissed with prayer by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.

	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing

	"Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"

	Prayer was offered by Bishop C. C. N.
Dorius. Singing

	"Come all ye sons of Zion."

	Pres. Hyde called for reports from other
branches of the R. S. in the stake.
	Pres. Ellen Dorius represented the South
Ward, Ephraim, the sisters were doing well,
alive to their duties and generous in impart-
ing to the needy, hoped we would all be more
united than ever before; always felt it a bless-
ing to sit under the sound of the voice of those
appointed to lead.
	Mrs. Caroline Snow felt proud of being a
worker in the Relief Society; said Sister Wei-
bye, in Manti, sent her love to the sisters, and
would have liked to have been there with
them, but had a very sick daughter, hoped we
would pray for her in her trouble and for all
the sick; thought we should have charity for
one another and love and union.
	Mrs. Taylor said she was thankful to be a
small link in the chain that binds us together,
what we do is little but it is lasting; we are
doing the small things, let us not say any-
thing to lessen the influence of a brother or
sister, we need to be on the watch tower all
the time, true to each other and true to our
friends. The One above will control all, and
our enemies cannot overthrow this work.
	Mrs. Agnes Armstrong—The Lord is good
and He will chasten whom He loves, but trust
in Him and He will only give us what we need.
The roses of the field will not give forth their
sweetness until they are pressed to death and
then we realize how precious is the perfume, as
with us, we are tried and proven to see if we
possess the true elements of salvation. The
day of redemption is near, God will give us
strength if we rely upon Him and perform our
daily duties. There is not as much backbiting
and speaking against each other as there used
to be, in this respect we have improved.
	Mrs. Lena Anderson felt much good instruc-
tion had been given and rejoiced in it, and in
the work among the needy in the Relief
Society; hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
guide us into the right channel.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman appreciated the work
done by the Relief Society, and recalled today
the incident of the first organization of the
Relief Society at Beaver, when Mrs. Elmira
Murdock was chosen to preside, and there were
seven sisters and two or three brethren present,
there was so much opposition and misappre-
hension that it seemed difficult to stem the
tide, but Mrs. Murdock then said, that in after
years we would be astonished at the results
that would follow. We have been brought
closer together through these organizations.
She had once been taken to live among
Gentiles, and as she was naturally combatative,
whenever they spoke against our people, she
began to hunt up arguments to prove her
position, so what might have been a detriment
to some, proved a blessing to her. Made some
good remarks upon literature and how careful
we should be in giving to our children proper
reading matter.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great events
now transpiring in fulfillment of prophecy, the
need of faith and of wisdom, alluded to the
feeling of weakness among the sisters, and told
them it was just as essential to know their own
strength as their weakness; spoke of the great
work among our children, the rising genera-
tion, and the work for the dead in  the temple,
thought the people of Sanpete blessed to have
such a sacred edifice in their midst; gave
much special instruction to the sisters in refer-

[Column 2]

ence to their labors and exhorted them to read
and become fully developed in those matters
that would make them companionable to their
husbands; and wise and honorable mothers;
she thought the trials this people were now
enduring were light compared to a devastating
sickness, such as had been in days that were
past. Spoke of the presiding authority of the
Church, and what a very remarkable man
Pres. Woodruff was, full of life and vigor,
even more than many young men, "the trials
of life as we call them sit lightly upon him;"
spoke to the sisters upon improvement, intellec-
tual and spiritual, and urged them not to work
too hard, also spoke of the United Order or a
time when peace and harmony should exist in
all Israel, and all inequalities and difficulties
be adjusted.
	Pres. Hyde was much interested in the
United Order, as it had been touched upon
here to-day, thought it would be a great trial
to speculators; this is a very interesting period
in our history as a people; spoke also of the
appearance of the Prophet Joseph, the impres-
sion he made upon those with whom he asso-
ciated, his noble and dignified bearing. She
had the privilege of hearing his teaching, but
did not then appreciate the importance of each
golden word. He seemed to have the power
of winning every heart, and even his enemies
softened towards him if he could converse
with them. Alluded to the time when her
husband, Apostle Orson Hyde returning
from a council very sad, informed her that
Joseph had thrown the responsibility of the
work upon the Twelve, she felt then something
would take him from the people. She made
some remarks upon the gathering of the Jews,
thought it one of the greatest testimonies of
the times. Sister Hyde then exercised the gift
of tongues, and Sister Snow gave the interpre-
tation.
	Pres. C. Petersen made brief remarks, re-
ferred to the great changes that had taken
place since a conference had been held there,
especially in Salt Lake City, if any one had
uttered these things as a prophecy it could
hardly have been believed; felt sorry to hear
of people being obliged to sell their homes be-
cause of high taxes, but knew it to be the
direct result of disobedience to counsel. "If
we had kept our trade entirely to ourselves and
lived within our means, we should not have
had to open our doors so wide. Co-operation
is the stepping stone to the United Order and
it is my belief that this people will not adopt
it only when they have been tried to the
utmost. In my experience I have found that
the poor are much more willing to accept these
things than the rich. The book of Doctrine
and Covenants tells us that we shall not in-
herit the land of Zion, which is Missouri, until
we are ready to accept the United Order. The
Lord will try us with riches as we have been
tried in poverty." Pres. Peterson spoke nobly
of the woman suffrage cause, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their labors in wise
and kindly words of counsel.
	Conference adjourned for three months, the
exact time and place of meeting to be desig-
nated hereafter. Singing,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;"

	Benediction by Brother Lowrey.


