NOTES AND NEWS.
Germans, consider in an act of politeness to 
kiss a lady's hand. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's present ad-
dress is Basingstoke, Hants, England, care of 
William Henry Blatch. 
The municipal woman suffrage bill was 
defeated in the Massachusetts House of
﻿Representatives on April 17 by a vote (includ-
ing pairs) of 141 to 73. The affirmative vote was
almost exclusively Republican. There were
24 pairs.
There are now ten Hindoo and Parsee
ladies taking courses of higher study in
England, and a number of young girls are at
school in the mother island. Perhaps some of
these girls will live to see the last “child
widow” in India.
The women students have finally conquered
Basle, which, alone among Swiss universities,
has hitherto refused to admit them. A formal
decree now allows them to matriculate regularly,
but only by way of experiment; and it is stipu-
lated that if the experiment does not work
well, the doors of the university shall again
be closed to women.
Some wise real estate ageuts in Chicago have
engaged women as assistants, whose duty it is
to show houses. A busy man, who wants to
purchase a home, has his wife to suit first of
all. It is generally she who selects the house
and goes around to look at those that are for
sale. The assistant is sent with her. She
knows what women like in the way of closets,
storerooms, laundries, pantries, etc., and she
shows these off with feminine skill.
A bill to incorporate Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, Alice Stone
Blackwell, Jane H. Spofford, Rachel Foster
Avery, and their associates under the title of
the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation,
has been refered to the House Judiciary
Committee without objection.
	THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON advances
the idea that there are two classes of women
who are opposed to woman’s advancement from
her state of subjection. One is the school-girl
and the other is the home woman who rules
every one,husband included, with a rod of iron.
Mr Higginson forgets one class—they are the
strong-minded, conservative women, who have
no opinion of the capabilities of their sisters
and are sure the world would rush onward to
perdition if they were allowed a voice in affairs.
	MME. PATTI was interviewed a few days
ago as to the dress, exercise, diet etc., most
advisable for girls who wish to become singers.
Being asked “What wines may a young singer
allow herself?” Mme Patti answered: “If she
really means to succeed no wines at all. I don’t
believe in wine; it hurts the throat-almost in-
variably. Some young singers, I know are
not strong, and doctors prescribe claret for
them, but it is a bad practice to drink it.
For myself I never touch wine.”
Miss Blanche Willis Howard, the novelist,
lives in Stuttgart, and receives and chaperones
young ladies studying music, languages, and
the like. One of the girls under her care says:
“She is a practical manager, housekeeper, and
accountant.  She teaches us cooking and
economy, which one does not expect from a
poet. Besides all this, she is a half-doctor.
She takes excellent care of the health of the
girls, and tries to make them reasonable in
caring for themselves. She also teaches us
that we won’t have half so many ills if we
don’t think and talk about them. She in- 
sists upon more exercise than we can take,
almost, but our exercise is recreative, and part
of it is swimming in a delightful warm
swimming bath, which we continue all winter."
THE disfranchisement of the Mormons in
Idaho because of their church fealty is hav-
ing its legitimate political successor in the


pamphlet issued by the Massachusetts "Commit-
tee of one Hundred," who propose the dis-
franchisement of all Romon Catholics because
they give their highest allegiance to the Pope,
and therefore cannot any more than the
Mormons be good sectarians and citizens of
the United States." Underlying both these
cases of attempts to deprive people of political
rights because of sectarian beliefs lies partisan
politics, and every believer in individual liberty
should cry out that we are on dangerous ground.
It is just as much an objectionable union of
church and state to keep people out of political 
rights for religious beliefs as to require re-
ligious beliefs for the exercise of political rights.
On the latter much is said but it will only be the
legitimate evolution from the former, which is
now passing unchallenged. 
Woman's Tribune.


