HEPHZIBAH.
XX.

	O, happy youth, how beautiful it seems—
		Without a care,—and all its bright array
	Of glorious visions—where the future gleams
		In rainbows tinst, o'er-arching all the way.

	The young bride found her position as a
daughter-in-law very irksome. She had never
really been controlled, she had been guided,
sometimes restrained, but absolute control she
had never known. Mrs. Harvey was imperi-
ous,she never allowed anyone to exercise their
freedom; husband, sons, daughter-in-law, all
must submit to her. Hepsie discovered this
fact in the first few days after her marriage,
and determined to resist the authority of a
mother-in-law.
	"I will not be spoken to as your mother
addresses me, I have never been accustomed
to such treatment, I shall rebel against all such
authority, I would rather go out and teach
and earn my own living than be under her
control," said the young wife to Harold a few
days after the marriage.
	"My darling; mother does not mean to be
harsh with you, she only wants you to conform
to her ways and be more womanly, and not
pine after your mother and your own old home
and all that sort of sentiment, she don't com-
prehend it, but one thing is sure, she shall not
interfere with you—we'll go on a wedding tour
and avoid all this and by the time we come
back perhaps she'll have changed her views,"
said the young bridegroom.
	"But Harold where can we go? I cannot
go among my friends, they've all discarded
me on account of Mormonism, and now your
father says we are not to start for Nauvoo
until Spring. O, how I wish we were going
now, I'm sick of waiting, out there we could
have a house of our own, if it were built of
logs, and we should be so happy, if we could
only be left alone."
	"Hepsie, my dear, I can fix all this. I'll
speak to mother. She must not make you un-
comfortable. And we'll have the wedding
tour any way. I know where to go, and there
will be lots of parties in town this Winter and
we shall have a jolly time."
	Poor little Hepsie, she had no idea what a
jolly time meant to Harold, though he was her
husband. However, time went by quickly,
and one party after another was given, to
which Harold and his young wife were invited,
and always attended, but Hepsie had no en-
joyment whatever in these things. She longed
for the springtime to come when they could
start for Nauvoo, she was entirely out of her
element, and she could not be content.
	The wedding tour as they called it was taken 
in mid-winter, and Hepsie really enjoyed that,
a handsome sleigh, a fine horse and full strings
of new bells, and only herself and Harold, who

[Column 2]

knew all about driving, and the cold frosty air
as they flew over the snow from village to
village, and town to town was exhilarating.
	Our modern young ladies would think this
a very primitive wedding tour, and so it was,
but happiness does not consist in a costly
trousseau, or elegant wedding presents, or even
a trip to Paris, though that is very delightful;
but Hepsie fully enjoyed this Winter pastime
of sleigh riding and visiting Harold's relatives,
uncles, aunts and cousins by the dozens, old
fashioned folks with college-bred sons, and Acad-
emized daughters living in country homes with
every convenience and ample entertainment
for dozens, or scores of guests, and the hearty
welcome with which they were everywhere
greeted by the Spooners, the Danforths, the
Merrimans, and others, some living in Massa-
chusetts, some in Vermont, and others in Con-
necticutt.
	The quaint places and funny stories of re-
lationships, and the vivid descriptions of "the
good old days" of the past pleased Hepsie,
and in the long Winter evenings she would sit
and listen to the lively conversation, for as
they traveled from one place to another, the
evenings were the times of social intercourse,
and goodly cheer withal, and she would
imagine all those tales told over again in books,
as she had once expected, to gather up just such
material to write her novels.
	Very little was ever said about religion, for
the Harvey's relatives though they were
numerous, were not religious, and Harold,
though he had been baptized, knew less about
Mormonism than Hepsie, and she, though
convinced and somewhat earnest and naturally
spiritual had never received a strong testimony.
It was quite understood everywhere they went,
that Harold and his wife were going to Nauvoo
early in the spring, but they met no prejudice,
and in fact the cousins' generally said, "O,
how I wish we were going out to the Far
West, too." Illionois, then, to these New Eng-
land people seemed such a long way towards
the setting sun
	This bridal trip occupied nearly a month,
and when they returned the house was all con-
fusion with packing boxes, chests, trunks, etc.
Mrs. Harvey, the mother-in-law. was much
annoyed that Harold had been away so long
when there was so much to be done, "and
besides" she she, "the horse and sleigh are to
be sold, and it is too late now to get a good
price for a sleigh, you're just like the Har-
vey's," she added addressing Harold, you
know how to spend means, but not how to save,
you don't take after the Spooners at all.
	Hepsie trembled. She knew Mrs. Harvey
would have something to say to her, and she
immediately resolved to defend her position.
Alas, for Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey waited until
Harold had left the room and then commenced
a tirade of abuse such as she was accustomed
to use in scolding her two bound girls, orphans
they were and Hepsie had frequently befriended,
them when their tasks were over-hard. If this
were an essay instead of a story; one might
moralize on the condition of children "bound
out," until they are of age; but to return to
Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey began, "I've no patience
with such love sick nonsense as you've put
into Harold's head, you are only children any
way, and ought to be told what to do. You,
Mrs. Harvey, as you think yourself could have
overlooked Hattie and Maria and the cook if
you had stayed at home, though, for that


matter you make the cook more extravagant,
but I can't tolerate idleness in my son’s wife,
besides you’re making him think, that writing
verses and singing songs, is of more consequence
than earning your own living. Harold isn’t
of age and he shall not have a cent of our
money to waste on you ; I expect both of you
to do your part now, and after we go to
Nauvoo; your being delicate will not excuse
you from doing your share."
	This was more than Hepsie expected and as
she could not answer for crying "she flounced
up stairs," as Mrs. Harvey told Harold after-
wards "without any ceremony."    Harold
found his wife in tears as usual, but he also
learned "that she would not and could not any
longer stay there."  "What will you do he
asked?"  "I shall go home," she replied, "if
you choose to take me, very well, if not, I will
walk, its only five miles, and I prefer to go
through the woods alone, to being here in the
midst of luxury."
	Harold was sure she meant to go, so he in-
formed his mother that Hepsie was going home
to stay until the time of the departure for the
anticipated journey; Hepsie could hear what
passed between them, all the sharp words on
both sides, but she did not relent; finally with
the most bitter tone Mrs. Harvey added, "its a
great pity you didn't marry your cousin Mary,
she was desperately in love with you; and its
plain to be seen Hepsie is not in love, or she
would have been jealous of Mary, when you
paid her so "much attention." Mrs. Harvey
knew very well when she made this stinging
speech, that she had planted a thorn in the
heart of Harold at least, and she hoped in
Hepsie's too. She knew Harold loved his wife,
moreover, she had urged the marriage, she
had promised to be a mother to the girl, who
had at least made some sacrifice in marrying,
even if the Harvey's were better off, as she
was often reminded by the mother in law.
It is not our intention to go into the particulars
in regard to all that transpired, but on a
beautiful day early in the month of April,
when the birds in the groves were singing their
matin melodies, Hepsie bade a long and last
farewell to the dear old places she loved so
much and nevermore expected to see. Her
mother and the younger children were intend-
ing to gather with the Saints early in the fall
of the same year; this fact alleviated some-
what the pain of parting with them. The
older brothers and sisters were married (save
one brother) and lived some distance away, so
she did not see them to say good-bye, these
farewells would have been sad as they dis-
approved her course, and she was not equal to
the strain upon her nervous system. The
Thanksgiving previous they had all met in the
old home, and even then a presentiment per-
vaded them that they would never all meet
again.
Hepsie tried to be brave when she turned to
take leave, but the tears would fall––and she
realized in a slight degree that she was going
forth to encounter unknown difficulties, yet
believed she had a strong arm to lean upon.
A private conveyance took them to Springfield,
Mass. where the party numbering between
forty and fifty people were waiting at the 
station for the train to Albany. They were 
nearly all strangers to Hepsie and almost to
each other, and Hepsie felt her heart fail as
she gazed round for one encouraging look. It
seemed to her there was not a sympathetic face
to be seen. Harold's mother cast upon her a
withering glance, it was the first time they
had met since that unfortunate day when the
young couple returned from their journey.
Mrs. Harvey calculated Harold's wife would
come to her and make things right, but she
kept her distance, seldom a word passed
between them, and then in the most common-
place way. The trip to Albany was rapid and
the company stayed over night at a hotel, and
indeed it was late the next day before they
were on board the Erie canal boat bound for
Buffalo. Traveling in those days at the best
was not what it is to-day with every conveni-
ence and luxury possible to reach  by the in-
ventive genius and skill of man. After reach
ing Buffalo, N. Y., which took nine days, the
rest of the journey was by steamboat, making
several changes at points on the way.
	A description of the journey, incidents and
scenery, and also the company would be very
interesting, but we must hasten to finish the
story without much detail. Friends met the
Saints at the Upper landing, at Nauvoo, and
the company dispersed. Some of the party
had been very attentive and kind to young
Mrs. Harvey, among them an old maid from
New Haven, who seemed lonely herself and 
even more homesick than Hepsie: she used to
say, "poor little thing you're only a child not
fit to be married, your husband knows little
more than yourself–and as for his mother, she
hasn't a spark of human feeling." Hepsie
would not open her heart even to Miss B., she
accepted her attentions and tasted her deli-
cacies, but was as silent as the grave in regard
to her own feelings. When the company
separated, each to go in different directions,
Hepsie lost sight of the friends who had been
the kindest and tenderest upon the journey.
She was so ill and homesick that anything at
all was too much for her to endure, she could
scarcely think for herself. Harold had waited
upon her, had anticipated almost her every
wish, had carried her in his arms often, and
when worn out with fatigue she had fainted, he
would call the Elders to administer to her.
No husband could be more gentle or more
thoughtful. Yet the child's heart was almost
broken.
The Harvey's had relatives in Nauvoo and
went direct to their home. Here the subject
was always the Gospel and Hepsie listened
intently to the conversation. Her spirits
revived somewhat on reaching the city of
Nauvoo, and her faith was greatly strengthened.
She immediately felt the influence that per-
vaded the holy city. The very first evening
after their arrival the principle of tithing was
referred to and Mrs. Harvey inquired "will we
be required to pay one-tenth of all we have to
the Church?" Her sister replied emphatically,
"Yes, it is for the building of the temple and
other public purposes." "Well, I shall not
consent to it," replied Mrs. Harvey, "Elias
will of course, he would have given away all
he had before now if I had not prevented it.
Don't tell him its the law, I'll see to it he shall
not do it!"
	Hepsie had always felt Mrs. Harvey was not
true to her integrity and now she seemed to
comprehend her ultimate apostacy.
	Their first Sunday in Nauvoo, Joseph the
Prophet preached, and Hepsie knew the 
moment he stepped upon the platform, and she
saw his magnificent presence, and the influence
he brought with him upon the whole congrega-
tion, that he was in very deed a Prophet of
God.


