TRUE EDUCATION.
[An essay read at the young ladies meeting
in Woodland Ward April 1st.]
Education is a subject which is dear to every
true lady or gentleman no matter to what re-
ligious denomination they may belong. There is
the education of the heart and the education of
the mind,unless both are cultivated we have not
the real education that is necessary in life.
Education brings joy and happiness if sought
after with a pure humble spirit, it makes the
true lady or true gentleman; it is a good
campanion for us in our hours of solitude aud
retirement; by it we gain food for thought and
reflection thereby broadening our minds and
expanding our views.
How great the thirst for knowledge after we
have fully realized its sweet savoriness,after we
have attained this intense craving appetite,like
the wine-bibber after his wine we are never
satisfied, but dive deeper into the founts of
knowledge continually learning every moment
of our lives.
Our religion teaches us to be onward and
upward in the paths of learning, and to me it
seems we cannot become good Latter Day
aints, unless we satisfy this craving within us
for knowledge, this desire for intelligence.
How pleasant it is to be in the society, if only
for a short time, with an educated refined and
cultivated soul; the sweet influence is felt for
along time after, (quoting from the poet
Longfellow)
'"When’er a noble deed is wrought.
Where’er is spoken a noble thought,
Our hearts in glad surprise
To higher levels, rise.

The tidal wave of deeper souls.
Into our inmost being rolls
And lifts us unawares,
Out of all meaner cares,

Honor to those whose words or deeds,
Thus helps us in our daily needs,
And by their overflow	
Raise us from what is low."

This poem was most forcibly brought to my
mind as I listened to one of our Apostles at
the late Conference in Heber City. I wondered
how the young people could but be impressed
as they listened to the divine truths pouring
from his mouth, his exhortation and entreaty
for them to shun all evil, and to live in such
a way that they might be able to meet their
Creator at the great day of Judgment with a
clear conscience
True education teaches us to be pure and
humble, to be the lady or gentleman at all
times. Some may say, I have not the advan
tages that I ought to have, there is no use my
trying to learn. To such persons I would say
pause and reflect. Is this really so? Has not
your Creator endowed you with a mind ca-
pable of understanding? How many moments,
hours, aye whole evenings have we not spent
in wild hilarity, mirth and dancing in which
there is no knowledge to be gained.
Another one may say “I am too old there is
no use of my beginning now; ’ To such a one I
would say many of our gifted women and men
of the world have begun actual work at middle
age,and have passed through a brilliant career
ere death has overtaken them. I have heard
many a pretty young girl or a bright promis-
ing young boy, give utterance to words some-
thing similar to this “I do not mean to study,
I mean to have a good time while I can,” I
often wonder if from such parentage as this do
not frequently spring our gamblers, horse
theives and murderers?
To me it seems that if the mind seeks not after
lofty pursuits, it must seek after something low
and therefore the heart is often led astray.
Then let us seek after those pleasures which
will elevate and ennoble us that we may rise
above the low paltry vices that beset us on
every side, then we will be more able to cope
with the adversary who is ever against truth
and we will become more firm in the Gospel.
May God bless you all and strengthen us for
the dark trials to come is the prayer of your
sister.
