OBITUARIES.	
	Died at her residence in Spanish Fork, Feb. 19th 1890,
of "La Grippe," Elizabeth Lock, beloved wife of John
Houghton and daughter of Andrew and Catherine Fergu-
son. Born Nov. 19th 1946 in Ruthergland, Scotland.
Came to Utah with her parents in 1855. Was the mother
of fourteen children, eight of whom are living. She was
a devoted wife and kind mother: a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and a teacher in the Relief Society.
	Spanish Fork, March 20th, 1890.		Com.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Through your columns we would chronicle the death of
one of our loved members, Sister Nettie Baker, the Stake Sec-
retary of our Y. L. M. I. A. who died the 2nd of January,
leaving a husband and two baby girls, one an infant.
	While we esteem death as the glorious gate to a land of
joy and beauty, yet mortality whispers words of sadness
and loneliness to loved ones left behind.
	Though earthly life lasts but an hour compared with the
great eternity, yet it seems that the human mind, clothed
in mortality cannot grasp the perfection of God's designs
and, though we fain would look beyond, our vision is often
bounded by the horizon of time.
	Considering all this, we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved husband, family and fond parents. In regard to
absent ones, we know "They are not dead, but gone
before."
						ALICE HOYT.
Richfield, March 29, 1890.

	Died in the 66th, year of her age, at her residence in
West Bountiful Ward, Davis Co. Utah, after a long and
severe sickness, Sister Jane Argyle. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March
16th 1852, in Birmingham, England, crossed the plains in
1856 with the first company of handcarts, with her hus-
band and six children, and endured bravely all the trials in-
cident to such a journey. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint. The slightest hint of poverty or suffering would call
forth her strongest sympathies, and she was foremost in
administering to their relief and comfort; sparing herself
no trouble in the hope of benefiting others. She was a
faithful teacher in the Relief Society, always on hand to do
her duty as long as her health would permit, and to bear
a testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and to the goodness
of her Heavenly Father to her, and especially during her
illness. We mourn her departure, but we also realize that
our loss, is her eternal gain.
