R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE.
Minutes of the fourth conference of the


[Column 1]

Relief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Ashley Ward Meeting House
March 2nd, 1890. Meeting called to order at
10 a. m. Pres. Sarah Pope presiding, the
house was pretty well filled; Brother R. S.
Collett, James Hawkins, together with the
Bishops and their Counselors were on the
stand and the Presidents of the several
branches of the Relief Society excepting one.
	Singing, "How sweet is redeeming love,"
prayer by A. H. Bartlett, singing "High on
the mountain tops appearing." Minutes of
previous conference read and approved. Pres.
Sarah Pope said she was thankful to her
Heavenly Father for the blessings we are as a
people at present enjoying, and for the privi-
lege of meeting in another conference, "it is
one year ago to day since we had a Relief
Society Conference, we intended to have one
last September, but we at that time had so
much sickness in the valley we could not, I am
pleased to see so many here and I hope we
have come with good feelings towards each
other that we may have the spirit of God to 
be with us, that we may have a good time."
	Sister A. H. Bartlett gave a report of the
Ashley Relief Society.
	Sister Jenson said she desired an interest in
the prayers of all present, "it is the first time
I ever spoke in conference, I have striven to
live up to the requirements of the Gospel and
by so doing have received a testimony of the
same, the Church of Christ is like unto the
body of Christ, and as each member is neces-
sary to make the body perfect, so is each or-
ganization to a whole. We should come to
our meetings that our spirits may be fed as
well as our bodies, each day of our lives we
should try to keep the commandments of God,"
she then read a chapter in the book of Isaiah
that was very appropriate for the occasion,and
also made a few remarks on the same.
	Sister Goodrich reported the Relief Society
of the Merill's Ward. Sister Oaks said the
principles of the Gospel were most beautiful
to her and if we lived up to them, they would
lead us to life eternal, prayed for the blessing
of God to rest upon the sisters for they had
done much in taking care of the sick and
afflicted the past winter. We should be charit-
able, she then read a portion of a sermon of
Joseph Smith's on charity.
	Sister Osser reported Riverdale Society as
doing as well as could be expected. Sister
Olney bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, said we had many trials but
they were generally for our good.
	Sister Sarah Colton reported the Mill Ward
Society, and said she felt thankful to the sisters
for the help they had been in taking care of
the sick.
	Sister Collett spoke on the rearing of our
children said we should be prayerful and set
them good examples and teach them to live
lives of purity, and also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Reynolds and Sister Alpanalp said
they wished to do all the good they could and
bore testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Freestone said we should strive to set
a good example before the young and rising
generation; mothers should try to see that
their children went to Primary, for the sisters
do all they can to come and teach them, so
their mothers surely ought to see that they
come to the meeting and go themselves as
much as possible; "the adversary is ever on
the alert to destroy our children therefore we
should try to instil into their young minds true
principles."
	Pres. Sarah Pope said we should try to be
good and kind to each other, we should try
to keep the commands of God that we may
always have His spirit to be with us so when
we go into a sick room the influence we carry
with us is felt; sometimes every touch of a

[Column 2]

person around one who is sick is soothing;
many of the sisters this past winter have
worked over the sick until they have been
worn out; we knew we were doing good in
waiting upon the sick and afflicted; there is a
power trying to overthrow the Kingdom of
God; but will they do it? no they never will,
the work will roll on and come off triumphant,
there are many prophecies being fulfilled, the
Jews are being gathered to their own land,
and many more signs of the coming of the
Savior. How can any body say, I can see no
evidence of the truth of the principles of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
there is enough transpiring every day to con-
vince us of its truth, but sisters do not tire in
trying to do good, let us be sure and remember
to look after the sick, and the aged that are
among us, we must look after them and let us
be very careful and not hurt any body's feel-
ings in doing so, and let us take care of our
daughters and sons too, let us continue to teach
the principles of virtue and uprightness."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m., singing
"Praise ye the Lord," benediction by Pres.
Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session; meeting at 2 p. m. Pres.
Sarah Pope presiding, singing "I'll praise my
Maker while I've breath," prayer by Sister
Oaks, singing, "I saw a mighty angel fly."
Sacrament was administered after which Sister
Roxanna Remington made a few remarks and
gave some good instructions to the young peo-
ple. Sister Stringham spoke on kindness to
the aged and to be up and doing, and do all
we can to help our Presidents in the different
associations, read a portion of a sermon de-
livered by Pres. Woodruff about six months
ago and spoke a short time on the same.
	Sister Wardle then reported the 4th Ward
Society. Sister A. H. Bartlett spoke on wo-
man's rights which was interesting to all, and
also on the subject of young men going on
missions, those boys that went on missions a
little over two years ago could not speak but
a short time previous to their going, but now
they can occupy as much time as is appropri-
ate for them, it was a trial to them when they
were called yet it has proved a great blessing;
she also spoke well on the principles of the
Gospel and was listened to with intense in-
terest.
	The names of the Stake officers were then
read and sustained. Brother R. S. Collett
made a few closing remarks, gave the sisters
some good instructions and spoke encourage-
ingly to the sisters which was gladly received.
	Conference adjourned until some convenient
time next summer, singing "Awake ye saints
awake." Benediction by Sister Henrietta
Hatch.
