MRS. PFEIFER’S WILL.
	The will of Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer, late of May-
field, West Hill, Putney, England, who died on
January 23rd last, was proved on March 11th by
Mrs. Jemima Lamond, the sister, one of the execu-
tors, the value of the personal estate amounting
to upwards of £63,000. The testatrix, by her
will, after bequeathing £500 to her said sister,sets
out that her late husband left herall his property,
having full confidence she would carry out his
wishes in respect thereof, and she accordingly
leaves all her property to be disposed of accord-
ing to his wishes, as expressed in a letter dated
September 4th, 1884, by which the bulk of his
property is to be distributed among charitable
and educational institutions for women only; and
he states that he considers boys should be
brought up to work, and not be born with silver
spoons in their mouths, and should not have any-
thing left them. By her codicil, the testatrix
gives the residue of the proceeds of the sale of
Mayfield, after payment of the bequest given by
her late husband in the said letter of September
4th, 1884, to his brother, John Pfeiffer, and her
sisters, Caroline Rocca and Jemima Lamond, and
their shares, after they have enjoyed the same
during life, are to revert to her neice, Emily
Bertha Sophie Overweg. She also, by her codi-
cil, leaves the whole of the property of her late
husband invested in securities to be applied in
the establishment and endowment of cottage
homes for destitute girls (preferably orphans), to
be called “Jurgen Edward Pfeiffer’s Homes.”
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer, whose will is here spoken
of, visited America, and in their route across the
continent stopped at Salt Lake City. In her
book “Flying Leaves from East to West," she had
considerable to say about Utah, and as she had
had told me she should write up her visit to Utah
and would send me the book I was quite
anxious to see it. She was a pleasing writer of
both poetry and prose,and as I had seen her articles
in Littell's Living Age, and she had also spoken
to me of her books, and her work for suffrage as
well as her interest in dress reform. Altogether,
I expected the book would be exceedingly inter-
esting, but she did not send me a copy.
	Meeting a party of ladies at Mt. Vernon one
day, while in Washington in 1886, they inquired
of me, if I was the Mrs. Wells that Mrs. Emily
Pfeiffer had mentioned in her book. I replied
that Mrs. Pfeiffer and husband visited Salt Lake
City, had been two or three times in the office of
the Exponent, and spent an evening at my house.
	"O, then,” exclaimed two or three at once,
“you are the one, and we want to have a talk
with you.”
	I stated to them my surprise that Mrs. Pfeiffer
had not sent me her book. Evidently they knew
the reason, for one of them with a little hesita-
tion in her manner informed me “that she pre-
sumed it was because of what it contained
against our people.”
	I confess I was astonished, for they had been
entertained at the Gardo while here, and President
Taylor had taken more than ordinary pains to
converse with them on Utah subjects. And they
had also visited Sister Eliza at the Lion House.
	I had a very pleasant time with the ladies who
had referred to Mrs. Pfeiffer, both at Mt. Vernon
and on the steamer returning to Washington, and
at parting, one of them remarked, “when I go
back to England I’ll send you Mrs. Pfeiffer's
book,” and she kept her word. The ladies were
traveling for pleasure, they were of different


nationalities, English, French, Spanish and
German and one from Norway. I intended to
have written up that day at Mt. Vernon, for the
EXPONENT, but postponed it and at the present
time, so much that was said has passed from my
mind, that I  fear it would not be interesting.
	Among the items about Utah in Mrs. Pfeiffer’s
book, are some that I will quote to show that she
was impressed with some things she saw, not-
withstanding her prejudices and sarcasms and the
bitterness manifested in some paragraphs.
	She says, “sought out the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, a fortnightly paper devoted to the
interests of Mormonism and woman’s suffrage,and
introduced ourselves to the editress, Mrs. Daniel
Wells, who was very kind to us, and abounding
in the information I was most desirous of pro-
curing. From her we were able to gather an idea
of the aspect which this strange faith presents to
the educated minority of its female professors.”
She then gives some of my history which she had
heard in part from a lady at Manitou, and closes
the paragraph, “Mrs. Wells admitted the fact of
the plural marriage, but did not volunteer informa-
tion on a subject which is naturally delicate, if
for no other reason than that polygamy violates 
the law of the land.”
	“She freely, however, answered all the many
questions I put to her on less personal topics.”
Mrs. Pfeiffer has forty pages in her book devoted
to Salt Lake City and Mormonism. She speaks
of their visit with me to the Lion House to see
Sister Eliza in this way.
	“After a trifling delay we were introduced into
the presence of an old lady with a mild and
serious face, spare frame, and the sort of
dignity which comes from the possession of and
living up to an idea. She had the narrow fore-
head of a visionary, was upright, and her black
dress hung upon her with a certain homely
grace. She received us at first quietly and rather
coldly.”
	Some few introductory remarks are then given
in detail, in which she speaks of Sister Elliza
showing them the gold watch that belonged to "the
murdered prophet, whose wife she had been.”
	“From this the conversation drifted naturally
into subjects connected with Mormonism, and the
trials its possessors had undergone for their faith.
She saw in these trials the seal of its truth; and
gradually finding she was talking to willing listen-
ers the fire kindled and the old priestess unfolded
to us the inner life of her singular faith,expounding,
and at last I could not but feel, almost exhorting,
in the spirit of a Hebrew prophetess. The face
that had been cold to us at first, grew full of
human love and pity; the dim eyes that had
looked upon the world for eighty years were
tearful, her voice vibrating with emotion. She
was sorrowful, struggling with the thought that
she possessed a treasure of living truth which she
was unable to share with those who owned them-
selves in darkness, or with only that little light
which is a “lantern to the feet." I do not envy
the condition of that soul that could have
watched the earnest face of Sister Snow and not
have felt lifted to some meeting place of sympathy
far above prejudice and even knowledge, and in
spite of the impediment of a repulsive creed.
All that can be found in this singular communion
as food for the higher life, would seemed to have
been seized upon and assimilated by this earnest
adherent, who was now giving testimony of it in a
full tale of natural and simple eloquence. We
were both of us deeply touched; and well we
might be, for the situation had in it an element
that was indeed pathetic. We wanderers in
darkness, only not absolute that it was felt; she,
nearing the end of her pilgrimage; and speaking
to us from a height which she had reached by the
aid of what, in our eyes was a false light.  Alas
for us a poor striving children of men! Who shall
help us, if in our wanderings we have no pity for
each other.”

[Column 2]
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met Sister Eliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in 
much the same strain.  Of the evening spent at
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
	"All of the several persons we met were per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness.  The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere.  Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met listereliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in
much the same strain. Of the evening spent,g'
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
“All of the several persons we met were'per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness. The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere. Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
of her existence a happily detached wife, content
in the free exercise of her own activity. Dr.
Romdnia was a sensible looking woman who also
had found a sphere of action to her mind. We were
sorry to leave the pleasant light and warmth and
the fellowship of kindly hearts, and however our
views of the evil and corruption at the core of
Mormonism remained unchanged, we sincerely
regretted that the little circle within the radius of
that friendly hearth would possibly be called on
to share in the troubles to come. But we had to
go. Dr. Pratt pressed us to take seats in the open
buggy which awaited her at the door, but I
feared the keen night air. The hardy old prophet-
ess felt herself better able to repel its effects, and
stood lightly shawled, ready to depart with the
medical lady, while we took of each other a
lingering farewell. I see the tall, slim, sable-
robed figure, with the human love and longing in
the dim eyes, see it as I saw it then, and shall
never see it again; though the heart of the aged
priestess which was of those that “hope all things,
seemed to tell her we should meet again.”
Of her visit, to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Pfeiffer has
this to say:	
“Our days were passed in as much communion
with the Mormon people as. we were able to
establish, but the evenings had never failed to
bring to our hotel, Mr. Goodwin, the gentleman
on whom we had called on our first arrival, who
anxious to correct the impressions we might
have derived from native sources, fulminated
against the Mormons in eloquent periods, which
we sometimes recognized in the Salt Lake
'Tribune the succeeding day


