NATURE.

Nature's Laws have ever taught me, that,
In her was something grand, sublime,—Godlike;
Far more than man, with all his boasted powers,
Of heart and brain, can possibly compete with. 

Behold the plants, that adorn our earth;
In them a gradually increasing growth, both night and
	day;
So feeble once,—perhaps unseen by man.
It was easily crushed— dwarfed, or bowed to the dust;
The scorching sun, when added to a drouth,
Was more than enough to destroy its powers,
But it was wont to cling to a latent hope,
And it pierced the soil with its tendril roots.
Earth's soul had been warmed by the burning sun,
Imparting strength that kindly fed, and gave it life,
Until it gracefully towards the zenith climbed;
It became a grand and mighty tree, compared to the dwarf,
The crippled one, that did not—perhaps could not grow.

Earth what of her? She often belches forth,
Her pent up force, in molten fiery streams,
And from her shaking cliffs fragments tumble;
Huge masses,—boulders, into her valleys fall.
From her hills and dales the limpid streams,
In gentle murmurs, o'er her pebbles roll;
While further onward her store is increased, by others
	added,
The volume now in figures I could not express;
But suffice to say, it has become, a swollen stream;
Even her banks are filled to over-flowing;
And the great boiling ocean receives her all.

View the Earth's Seas, dotted here and there with barks,
O’er which they dash at times with froth, and foam;


And surge, and boil, as with maddening rage;
With powerful force, they whip the ragged beach;
Their slippery feet rebound, they dance with crash and roar
Sometimes in calm, they meet the sail fore, and aft, with
	dangers dire;
And thus they crush her on the shoals in darkness dense,

Now from earth we'll view. that which surrounds.
Light and darkness, is the result of the position of the sun,
According to distance far or near, warmth is received from
	him;
The reflecting rays of the sun upon drops of rain produce
	the rainbow tints,
And from the lowering clouds, the rain, snow and hail de-
	scends.
The lightning, madly shoots with serpent tongue, it girts
	the earth;
And from the lightning splintered trees, the flames ascend;
From among the hills, and towering peaks the thunders
	roll.
The winds, they gather with increased fury and powerful
	weight, 
They sweep the earth, uproot the trees! Oh God!
In this we must acknowledge Thee, Thy Almighty power;
All Nature teaches me that Thou art God,
The one and ever living God of Truth.
							DR. E. S. BARNEY
	Salt Lake City Mar. 17th 1890.


[column 1]
FOR THE EXPONENT:
