EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Hon. Samuel J. Randall, whose death occurred
at his home in Washington, D. C., on Sunday
April 13, 1890, was born in Philadelphia, Pa,
October 10, 1828. He was elected to Congress
in 1862, and took his seat December 7, 1863. He
was Speaker of the House of Representatives
from December 1876 to March 1881. In January,
1879, while speaker, he laid before the House
the first Memorial presented to Congress from the
women of Utah, among other things asking that
the law of 1862 be repealed. The writer remem-
bers with great satisfaction the uniform kindness
he has ever manifested towards her and this
people whenever she has met him, or talked with
him upon the conditions under the enforcement of
the laws enacted against this people during the
last few years. One of our exchanges contains
the following notice of Speaker Randall, which
seems a fitting tribute to one who served his
country faithfully and well, and the writer heartily
concurs with the sentiments herein expressed.
	“Hon. Samuel J. Randall, of Pennsylvania,
whose death was recently announced, will take
high rank in American history as a statesman, a

[Column 2]
patriot and a parliamentary leader. He was not
a scholar, but he was a man of fine intellect, keen
perceptions, immense capacity for work, unflinch-
ing courage, and rugged integrity. In war a brave
and faithful soldier, in peace he was ever a sturdy
champion of good government and the people’s
rights. On the floor of Congress and in the
Speaker’s chair his services were important
and distinguished. The most striking features in
Mr. Randall’s character was his perfect integrity.
He would not make a dollar by indirection.
Looking back upon a long career of public service
commencing before the war in the Common
Council of Philadelphia and running through
many sessions of Congress, in some of which
jobbery ran riot, Mr. Randall as he lay upon his
death-bed had the satisfaction of knowing that he
had been aggressively and robustly honest and
had not for his personal profit willfully wronged
either the government or any fellow citizen to the
extent of a dollar. He lived as befitted his in
come. Social allurements betrayed him into no
excesses. His home was modest, his life tem-
perate. He died leaving no great estate. And
surely a great estate can not be accumulated upon
a Congressman’s salary, though some famous
statesmen have demonstrated the contrary.—Ex.

	On Tuesday, the 17th day of April in company
with Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M.
Kimball, we attended the Relief Society of
Farmer’s Ward, held in the parlor of Sister
Emma Woodruff’s residence just south of the
city. The large parlor was well filled with the
sisters and a very few brethren. Sister Wood-
ruff, the president of the society conducted the
meeting. There were the usual exercises of
singing, prayer, and reading minutes of former
meeting, and then speeches were in order, Sister
Woodruff very happily leading out in suitable
opening remarks, followed by Sister Zina,
General President of the Relief Society of the
Church, who, in her usual eloquent style spoke
for a short time, giving instruction on various
subjects. Sister Gibbie, counselor to Sister
Woodruff and others of the local sisters made a
few remarks, bearing testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, after which the writer, in response to
the invitation of the president spoke briefly upon
faith, the training of children and spiritual culti-
vation. After some other testimonies from the
sisters present, Sister Kimball spoke of the
need of method in our work and the cultivation
of those powers of mind that would make
woman companionable to man, and his helpmate
and equal, politically and otherwise; she referred
to the words used by the brother in his prayer at
the opening of the meeting as significant, “sisters
in the ministry,” or words to that effect, and her
remarks throughout were singularly clear and
impressive. Sister Sarah Jane Cannon, first
counselor in the society spoke quite feelingly of
her good desires and intentions and her willing-
ness and that of the sisters there to labor for the
good of the needy and the sick, and help in what-
ever way possible in promoting the interests of
the good cause. Other sisters bore testimony
and Brothers Gibbie and Wagstaff also testified
of their experience and gave every encourage-
ment possible to the sisters to persevere in their
labors. The meeting was dismissed with singing
and pra er, after which general conversation was
indulged in, Sister Woodruff having already invited
those present to remain. Pres. Woodruff shortly
after arrived from the city and presently a sump-
tuous dinner was served, also fruit, candies, nuts,
etc., in the long dining room adjoining the parlor.
The venerable President seated at the head of the
table, entertained his guests with reminiscences
of the past, his long and peculiar experience in
the Church, his association with Joseph the
Prophet, afterwards Brigham, Heber, George A.,
and other Apostles, and subsequently with John

[Column 3]
Taylor as President, and now with a younger set
of men, feeling he had lived through three
generations of this dispensation. The afternoon
was a most enjoyable one to the writer and will
never be forgotten.


