Search for Knowledge and Understanding President Joseph Ficlding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve [Address delivered at the Annual Gencral Relicf Society Conference, October 5, 1960] want to say a word of appreciation and thanks to these good sisters who came all the way from the Big Horn to sing to us. It is lovely and I want them to know that we appreciate it. I would like to say, too, that Sister Smith and I have been guests in the home of Mr. Hamblin, the author of this wonderful anthem. He has written some of the best sacred music of anybody that I have any knowledge of. I wish we could get him in the Church. Now, contrary to what I usually do, I have chosen a text that I am going to read to you. It is from the 19th Psalm: The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, tejoicing the heart: the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover by them is thy — servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward. Who can understand his cleanse thou me from secret faults. Errors? Keep back thy servant also from _presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. Page 212 Let the words of mv mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer (Psalms 19:7-14). That is one of the most beautiful psalms in all the psalms that have been written, that have come down to us. The people today, I think many of them at least, have varicd, incorrect ideas about these old prophets. 'They were poets and they had inspiration, and how the spirit of the Lord had touched their souls has come down to us in these words that have been preserved. How grateful we ought to be that some of these very choice instructions, prayers uttered from the sincerity of the hearts of men who believed in God, have come down to us. I wonder how much we appreciate them. Now these men that wrote were prophets. Many of the psalms were written by David. David was a good man at heart. He made one very serious error that will stand against him even unto the judgment day. But in deep humility, he sorely repented, so in sincerity of his humility and when I read these words, I can't help but feel the greatest sympathy for this great man. But what I want to talk to you about is not the fact that these ancient prophets had the inspiration and poured out their souls in SEARCH FOR KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING prayer, but I want to call attention to the counsels that they gave to us. Now when this psalm was written, there was no Bible. The Israelites had copies of the Five Books of Moses, and they had some few other writings, but they were not distributed generally. They were in manuscript form and mostly in the hands of the priests. HE members of the Church were not fortunate enough to have copies of the scriptures in their possession. 'They listened to the instructions that were given to them. They were taught to be humble and faithful before the Lord, to pray, to worship properly, but they did not have the opportunity to sit down at their tent doors or their porches and pick up the scriptures and read them. Those privileges were denied them because they were not to be had. There came a time when there was a period that no scripture was had among them. 'The scriptures had become lost, and then one day in the cleaning of the temple, the scriptures were found and _ were brought to the king. 'Thev had a righteous king on the throne at that time, and he rejoiced and called his people together and reiterated to them the commandments that the Lord had given him, because they were forgetting them, and so they made new covenants. When I read these beautiful sayings that have come down to us and think of the circumstances under which they were written, and the scarcity of copies and the need of the people at large to depend upon the teachings that came to them through their scribes and 213 teachers, I can understand how they so frequently became careless and indifferent and forgot the commandments of the Lord. And so the Lord had to send his prophets among them every little while to stir them up to remembrance of the covenants they had made. You know when they had come out of Egypt and had crossed the Jordan, Joshua had them build the monument of stone in memory of their deliverance and their coming into the promised land — the land that had been given to Abraham as an eternal possession — and so to build the monument to keep the people reminded of their great blessings and of their deliverance, they all took a covenant that they would teach the words of the Lord. They would be true to his covenants and remember them, but it was not long after this that thev began to forget. I can see a little more occasion for them forgetting than there is for us in our day. In fact, I see no occasion for us to forget. How greatly blessed we are! OW, it isn't necessary for us to go to meeting to hear the word of the Lord, to hear somebody read from the scriptures. We are not depending upon the elders and the priests of the Church to instruct us. Now, the Israelites were, more or less, more than less, because they did not have these meetings at hand, and when I think of them turning away and forgetting, then, there comes into my mind a little feeling of sympathy for those poor people. Our memories are more or less short, if we do not keep everything in mind at all times. And when they only heard the word of the Lord 214 occasionally, they could not sit down in their homes and open the scriptures and read the commandments of the Lord. Maybe I ought to be a little more charitable to them for their disobedience. Now it is different with us. There is not a home in any part of the world where the Bible should not be found. There is not a home where 'The Book of Mormon should not be found. I am speaking of the Latter-day Saint familics. 'There is no home where The Doctrine and Covenants and The Pearl of Great Price should not be. Not necessarily on the shelves or in the cupboard, but opened where they can be easily reached, and the members of the family might find access to them and sit down and read and study the principles of the gospel for themselves. Now it is possible with us anywhere, in any stake or ward or branch of this Church, and yet, my good brothers and_ sisters, I am indeed sorrowful in my _ thinking because of the lack on the part of the members of this Church to search for knowledge and understanding. While all these things are before us, we can have them. There isn't anybody in the Church who could not have in printed form the revelations of the Lord, the history of Israel, the words of our Redeemer as recorded in the four gospels, the writings of the apostles of old, as far as they have come to us. Thev are accessible and they ought to be in every home, and they ought to be available where we can find them, where we could sit down when we have a few minutes to spare and read a chapter and a few verses and keep ourselves posted. Now, why am [I talking like this? I am going to tell you why. Foolishly, maybe, I accepted a responsibility of answering questions and having them _ published, many of them. Well, I don't publish all that I get by any means. In fact, I don't answer them all because I can't, there are too many of them. But what is astonishing to me is the nature of some of the questions that some of the members of the Church write to me about, which, if they would turn to their Standard Works and spend just a little time studying them, they would not have to ask the questions, because they are all answered, and the Lord has given them to us. Yet, I will have the same question coming to me over and over again, even after it has been published as an answer to a question. I feel that the Latter-day Saints — our sisters as well as our brethren, many of them, are under condemnation before the Lord because he has given us so much pertaining to our present needs and our salvation, and yet the great majority of us, if I have the right understanding of us, we don't study, and we don't hunt for these things and we don't know about them, and so we are in danger — danger of being led astray. BOVE all else, we ought to live the truth. That is, the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That ought to be the choicest thing in all of the world, and why not? These words are so beautiful here: More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb (Psalms 19:10). SEARCH FOR KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING How many of us feel that way? Are they sweet to us like that? Well, sisters, if they are not, we have nobody to blame but ourselves. In the Lord's preface to The Doctrine and Covenants — his own preface, one that he dictated, speaking of those revelations — we find in The Doctrine and Covenants he says: "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall be fulfilled") D& C 1:37). Well, I get so many questions sent to me that are simple and that are answered completely in those revelations which we are commanded to search, and as I say, I answer them and they are published and here within a week, a month, after they are published, this question comes back again. Now, you think I am complaining don't you? I am not complaining. I am only calling attention to one of our responsibilities as mothers and fathers and as children. Now I will ask you this question, and you can answer it to yourself, who should have a better understanding of the fundamental principles of the gospel than the mother in the home? Well, I don't know of anybody. Why? Because she is with those little children of hers more than the father, if she is doing her duty she is, and they come to her with their questions. They come to her knee, and that is why she ought to instruct them. She would make a far better job of it than the father can, and I am not excusing the father. It is as much his responsibility to see that the children are raised in light and truth as the Lord has said. The Lord has placed that responsibility upon 215 us. He has made it so definite, and he also gave us a warning that it is the fathers and mothers of children who will have to answer if their children go wrong, if they have neglected those responsibilities. I am not finding fault with any of you good sisters here, and what I am saying maybe doesn't apply to a single one of you, because you are the women who are active. You are the women who are teaching and directing. I am not talking to you particularly, but to the sisters of all of the Church and to the fathers of all of the Church, for that matter. When you go into the homes to visit, can't you do something to encourage the mothers to teach their children, to read the scriptures to them, and bring them up as the Lord has said in light and truth. I am going to read another passage to you. The Lord said in the last days he was going to make a covenant with Israel. He has made it, but I want to read these verses to you: Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was an husband unto them, saith the Lord: But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel; After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their imward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and every man_ his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for they shall all know me, from the least of them 216 unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord: for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more (Jeremiah 31:31-34). OW, I am just foolish enough, maybe, to believe the Lord has given us the covenant that he promised. Where do we get it? In the House of the Lord, but we don't want you going into the House of the Lord, or anybody going there to receive a covenant, unless he intends to keep it. Now, I don't believe I quite finished that, did I? Well, that is enough anyway. The Lord has given us the covenant and we are not to break it. We are to keep the covenants, so the time will come when it will not be necessary for anyone to teach his neighbor. For as the Lord says, "... They shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them." Oh, if we could just get to that place! Sister Smith went with me to a stake conference. 'The president of that stake put his people under a covenant that they would read The Book of Mormon. They are going to do it piecemeal. That is — so many chapters a quarter, and then during that quarter they were to write to him and tell him that they had finished the assignment, and then he would give them another one until they had finished The Book of Mormon through the year. Sister Smith took that covenant, along with the others, not because she had to read The Book of Mormon, because I happen to know that she has read it and had been reading it constantly, but she took that covenant, and she is carrying it through and reporting to that stake president, and she is right up on her lessons, going through The Book of Mormon again. Now, you sisters, when you go home, teach your good sisters in the stakes to have a little more interest in revelations the Lord has given us pertaining to our exaltation. Now forgive me for taking all this time. The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. O