Room for Jenny Dorothy S. Romney OW beautiful it is here on the hilltop, Laura thought, suspended between the blue of the lake and the blue of the sky. She felt completely detached, as though she belonged to neither sea nor sky nor troubled world. She knew that in a matter of moments she would have to leave her retreat and return to the house by the side of the lake and face her problems. She fervently hoped that today she would find strength, so that Tom could look upon her with pride when he returned home tomorrow night. She could hear the chug-chug of the launch, and realized that it was later than she had supposed. She gathered up her sun hat and the book she had brought to read, and then had left untouched. As she made her way down the uneven path, she thought wryly, how much easier life would be if I could leave my memories here on the hilltop in the bright sunlight, where they could fly away as swiftly as the huge golden butterfly now taking wing. No, that isn't quite what I want either, she quickly decided, only to live with them in peace. She could see over the tops of the shrubbery growing beside the path that Lafe had already tied the launch to the pier. She stopped and watched as he turned to help Tom's new handyman from the boat. She knew from the letter he had written in answer to the ad, that he was an older man than 'Tom had wanted, but with the small wage Tom could afford to pay, it had been the best he could do. Then Laura saw Lafe assist a third person from the boat. She pressed her handkerchief to her eyes and looked again! Her heart stood still. It was a little girl. She could see in the bright sunlight that the child had red hair, braided in two pigtails that hung down over her shoulders. Even from that distance, Laura could see that the girl was too pale and too thin — and, oh, yes, she noted, with a catch in her throat, she had a brace on her left leg. Laura's first reaction was to sit down right where she was and wecp, and then she remembered her vow to conduct herself with courage. Who is this forlorn looking child? She asked herself. She thought of her own Cherie, with golden curls and rosy cheeks, and then remembered the empty room, the bed made up with a bright counterpane, dolls in their appointed places, sunny yellow ruffled curtains making the windows bright. A room that Cherie would never see again. Probably someone Lafe _ has brought over for the day to visit his girls, she reasoned, as she continucd on her way. The child was smiling as she walked slightly ahead of the two men, her left foot dragging ever so little over the uneven path. "Laura, this is Mr. Peters, your new man,' Lafe said, as soon as they were within speaking distance. "How do, Ma'am," Mr. Peters Page 217 218 said, putting down one of his bags, and extending his hand. "Welcome, Mr. Peters." Laura tried to make her voice sound cheerful. "We need you around here." HE waited for Lafe to explain the presence of the child, but he did not. Finally, Mr. Peters turned to the little girl. "And this here is Jenny, my granddaughter, Ma'am," he said. "The lady who had her care took sick yesterday. I'm her only kin," he stated flatly. Laura stood very still for a moment. "I suppose she has come for a visit," she said. "No, Ma'am," Mr. Peters replied in a quiet but determined voice, "Jenny will have to live here, or I can't take the job." If only Tom were here, thought Laura, desperately, and then remembered that it was time she started making her own decisions again. She had leaned on Tom's strength long enough. Both men were waiting for her to speak. The smile had left Jenny's face, and she looked frightened. "Come into the house, all of you," said Laura, "and Ill fix some lunch." "PI have to be getting along," Lafe told her. "Got some _postholes to dig." "Thanks, Lafe, for taking time off — I know how busy you are," Laura said. "Tell Nora to walk over later, if she has time." "You're welcome, Laura," Lafe answered gently. "Call me any time that 'Tom is away." He turned and started along the path toward home, then stopped and waved his hand. "Tl tell Nora," he called back. "Come along," said Laura, and led the way to the house, thinking as she went how patient Nora and Lafe had been with her in her grief. They were the only neighbors here on the "point of land." Tom, as head of the section's forest conservation, spent much of his time in the mountains. Laura needed the friendship and understanding of her neighbors. She stopped when she came to Mr. Peter's quarters, a bedroom and bath, detached from the main house. "You go right in and wash up," she told him. "Then come into the kitchen. Ill have lunch ready." She didn't offer to take Jenny's bag into the house. Her thoughts were in a turmoil. The only possible place in the house where they could put a child was in Cherie's room, and Laura's mind refused to accept this. As soon as they entered the kitchen, the little girl dropped down on a low stool. Laura heard a faint sigh. She walked to the refrigerator and poured a glass of milk and handed it to Jenny, who took it in both hands and sipped it slowly. Mr. Peters knocked on the kitchen door before entering. He looked anxiously at Jenny. "Her leg gets tired," he stated simply. "Yes, I suppose it does," Laura said. "Sit down. Lunch will be ready in a minute." HE took the empty glass from Jenny's hand and led her into the bathroom, where she washed the child's face and hands. Jenny watched her silently, her eyes large. The meal was pleasant enough. ROOM FOR JENNY. Mr. Peters seemed eager to please, asking Laura all about his work. She explained that his job would be to keep the buildings in repair. He would also cultivate a small garden that supplied their fresh vegetables, and make an occasional trip into the mountains beyond when 'l'om needed an assistant. Jenny ate little, and kept her eyes on Laura's face throughout the meal. "About Jenny," Mr. Peters said, when he had excused himself and risen from the table. "Does she stay?" Laura nodded. "For the present," she said, "but [ll have to speak to Tom, my husband, about any permanent arrangement." Mr. Peters looked crestfallen, and Laura immediately regretted the remark. Besides, she had only this