Stranger in Their Midst Jeanne. ]. Larson HE kitchen was warm and T cozy, the yellow checked curtains in the breakfast nook picked up the glow of the noonday sun. 'The satisfying aroma of fresh bread pervaded the air. "You're getting to be a fine cook," Bob said, as he buttered another hot roll. "I'm proud of you." Margaretta felt herself blushing at the unaccustomed praise from her reticent, unemotional husband. She felt almost like a bride again. She looked at Bob with pride and love, this big farm boy with the auburn hair who had captured her interest the first time he tracted at her large home on the outskirts of Curityba, the prosperous German community in southern Brazil. He had captured her parents' interest, also, because of his sincerity and his dedication to his missionary work. Because of the message which he brought them, one by one, the Mueller family had been converted, first by Bob Hillman, and then by subsequent missionaries who took his place. There had been a special meeting and farewell for Bob and three other missionaries in the Sao Paulo Mission home upon. Completion of their service for the Church, but Margaretta and her family had lived too far away to attend. It was three weeks later that she received a letter postmarked from a little town she had never heard of in Wyoming. Bob had written the letter with care, mentioning his return home, the farm he was taking Page 224 over in Wyoming, his desires and ambitions, and, at the end, his love for Margaretta. Not by word or deed had he revealed it before. Could she possibly feel the same about him? He wondered. Could she? Could she? She had fairly bubbled over upon reading the letter. It was the same glow she felt now as he patted her arm and complimented her cooking. As the phone rang, she struggled out of her narrow window seat. Bob continued his meal, eating with relish, but hurriedly, in order to finish plowing the one remaining field before dark. "Who was it?" He looked up as Margaretta returned to the kitchen. "It was Betty. She wanted us to go to their house tonight for dessert and an evening with the ex-missionaries." "Swell," he said with enthusiasm as he stood up and strode toward the back door. "What time?" Margaretta hesitated. "About seven," she said. How should she tell him? "I " she hesitated again. "I told her you would go, but that I didn't feel much like -gomg. Out any more and would probably remam at home." "What!" Bob paused with his hand on the knob. "Don't be silly. Those girls have all had _ babics. You're not unique." His voice was gruff, and then suddenly he strode over to her at the sink and put his arms around her. "You're the prettiest expectant mother I've ever seen. You put on your best bib and STRANGER IN THEIR MIDST tucker and we're going to Betty's." He tipped up her chin to force her to look at him. "Okay?" "Well 2". "No 'wells' about it. Promise," he said. Then he kissed her and was gone. GHE filled the dishpan with hot suds. Bob loved her, she knew, and his gruffness had been because he was hurt at her not wanting to go with him. Perhaps she was wrong in not telling him how she felt, letting him think that it was because of her condition, when actually it was because she was a stranger in their midst. | She couldn't bring herself to tell him how alone she felt at the parties, abandoned the minute they walked in the door. The men, who had so much in common besides their missionary years together, always congregated at one end of the living room and the women immediately gravitated toward the kitchen, chattering about problems of their children, music lessons, P. T. A., Cub Scouts, and Little League. Margaretta had nothing to contribute to such topics; so she sat alone, alone in the kitchen while the women chatted, alone because she was too shy to enter into their conversations, or alone in the living room as the men's group reminisced in Portuguese of their rewarding missionary experiences. As Margaretta wiped the drainboard clean and gave each cupboard door a final tap to close it securely, She felt the loneliness welling up inside her, longing for her family and friends in Curityba, never once in those days having visualized the bleakness and vast stretches of 225 Wyoming prairie which would one day be her home. She missed the tall Parana pines, the rolling hills, and Curityba itself with its narrow streets, its leisurely life. More than that, however, she felt a desire to be home with her family. She saw them all sitting down to lunch in the elegant dining room, the starched maids serving quietly and efficiently one course after another. She recalled the relaxed siesta hour after lunch before the boys and her father returned to the bank, when the family discussed together business, excursions, or the dance she and her sisters were planning to attend. With the kitchen sparkling and ready for the next meal, Margaretta walked through the hall toward the nursery, smiling to herself at her last thought. Dance, indeed! Dances were for young girls, and she was a married woman about to have her first baby. She caught sight of herself in the hall mirror and leaned closer to it, studying her heavy golden hair pulled in braids atop her head. She looked steadily into the blue eyes which stared back at her from the cold glass. She tentatively smiled and the mirror smiled back with a dimple. I should be ashamed, she thought, to be having such ideas. I'm lucky to have a lovely home and a fine husband and to be waiting for our baby. Her gaze traveled down, how could Bob call her pretty? How could he? She opened the door into the small blue and white nursery and almost reverently followed her daily routine of opening each drawer in the new dresser bright with animal decals. As she handled the precious garments within, her heart quick- 226 ened at the thought of having a baby to care for, and she wondered how she could wait the additional time. If only she could talk to someone about it, though, ask all the silly questions which she knew. Were ridiculous but which needed answering. She looked around her — at the blue and white dotted curtains — at the new crib ready for occupancy — and she felt the tears crowding into her eyes again as they had so often the last weeks. She loved Bob and the home which he had so proudly constructed, and life without him was unthinkable, but life without friends was hard, too. And without family. Her ways were so. Different from the other wives. If only the chapel were closer so that she could attend more of the meetings, but the sixty-mile round trip to town was time consuming and she and Bob, although faithful on Sundays, found it difficult to make other meetings. Only in meeting, where everything was the same as it had been in the mission field, did she feel truly at ease with the people around her. She wished that someone would drop in on an afternoon as had her sisters and brothers' wives at home, but distances between farms were too great, and then the question came to her mind whether the women would drop in if they could. Why should they call on her, a foreigner? ESPITE her mood of depres- ~ sion, Margaretta had. Dressed with care for the party, wearing the blue dress which was Bob's favorite because it matched her eyes. But now, sitting in a chair between Betty' s dining room and living room, neither a part of one group nor an other, Margaretta wondered sii she had bothered. She recalled with bitterness the first missionary reunion aftertheir marriage. Margaretta and*: Bob had walked in the door, he had been immediately swallowed up 'by the group of men, and she had been introduced to the other wives who exchanged superficial pleasantries at first and then gradually dropped back to familiar conversational ground, and Margaretta had been alone in the group. 7 "Tired?" 'Tall, vivacious Jane sat on the arm of her chair fora moment and broke into her thoughts. Margaretta nodded her head. Jane had always seemed to go out. Of her way to be nice and ——_ was grateful. Oh "T always get tired, too," Jane, mother of five, continued: in her friendly tone as she ran her slender fingers through her short black hair. "Especially toward the last.:. 'Time drags so, but then all of a sudden there it is, the end of the waiting. And you know, it's quite a fecling, that of accomplishment, of, fulfillment, the joy that you've shared in bringing something so unbelievably tiny and perfect into the world. Listen to us philosophizing, though. Let's go out in the kitchen." She stood and put her hand under Margaretta's elbow to help her up. "Betty," she called, "Margaretta and I are coming out." The sudden pleasure which Margaretta had experienced in talking to Jane was chilled. Why was it necessary to give the women in the kitchen warning about her entrance, unless they were talking about her? Several were sitting about 'the big kitchen table, a couple were. Leaning STRANGER IN THEIR MIDST on the drainboard. She could see no signs of the preparations they had said they were making when she had arrived and Betty had suggested she sit in the living room where she could be more comfortable. "Margaretta and I were philosophizing about the joys of motherhood," Jane said to the group. As though on cue, several of the women began talking at once about their experiences and Margaretta didn't know whether to be apprehensive or at ease from the things they related. She became aware that several of the women had quietly slipped away from the group and gone into the dining room. The feeling that they did not like her welled inside her again and she had a desperate desire to go. Home. Then she overheard Betty saying to Jane, "You tell me what to do. Pve tried every type of window cleaner imaginable and the hard water from the sprinkler still leaves spots on that front window." Margaretta listened to the discussion about window cleaning, wondering if she should offer her solution, but afraid to intrude. Jane, nodding in agreement with Betty's problem, said, ""We have the same trouble, then. I can't find a window cleaner that doesn't streak some either. I suppose in soft water areas they all remove spots from the windows, but this hard water is impossible. I've got so I hate to sprinkle the flower beds for fear some water will splash on the windows and give me trouble at the next cleaning." Suddenly Margaretta said, "If I could suggest something." She hesitated, feeling shy and uncom- 227 fortable. She had never before volunteered a thing during the conversations of the women. She wished she had not spoken now, because they were all looking at her, waiting for her to continue, probably thinking her strange. "It's just that," she hesitated again, "I use the method we use in Brazil. Not fancy, but it works, and." "T've noticed that your windows are always sparkling." Jane was encouraging her to speak. "Well, we use plain water with a few teaspoons of vinegar in it, and then instead of cloths, newspapers.' "Newspapers?" Several of the women spoke at once. "Yes, newspapers. I don't know the theory, but it works. It's so easy.' She could have bitten her tongue over the last words. No need to sound smug about something so simple. Was it possible the women were looking at her. Differently, with genuine interest, and — was it friendliness? Was it? She wondered momentarily if they were her friends, after all. Had they been waiting for her to make a move? Had she been wrong about them? OME on," Betty said. "Dessert's on." She motioned toward Margaretta. "You first." Margaretta hung back, shy. "Someone else. I don' t like to go first." "TIL go with you to the slaughter," Jane said laughingly. She took Margaretta's arm and propelled her to the dining room. "Surprise!" everyone chorused as She reached the door: Before her was a beautifully set table. In the center was a small parasol covered 228 with white tissue paper from which streamed blue and pink nbbons and beneath it were heaped delicately wrapped packages. "Surprise!"'" everyone said again. The men had moved in from the living room and they all took places at the table. Bob sat beside Margaretta. She felt tense. 'Tears crowded to her eyes. She bit her lip and looked down at her plate. Embarrassment overwhelmed her as she realized that the women had left the kitchen not because of their dislike of her as she had imagined, but because they were busy preparing the shower for her. She felt Bob's strong hand on her arm under the table. ""They're looking at you, honey. Say something." She looked up, first at Bob, and then slowly around the table at each one. "I don't know how to say it," she said, a catch in her voice. And then, without thinking, the words slipped out, words which came more easily for her than the language which she had adopted two short years before. "Muito obrigada, muito obrigada. You give me — how do you say it?" She turned toward Bob. "Muita felicidade." He smiled at her and tightened his grip on her arm. Looking toward the rest, he said, "The fellows understand; most of you wives don't. She said." Jane interrupted. "Of course, we understand. Not necessarily the words but the look and the tone of voice. We know. No one could say 'thank you' more eloquently. But, come on everyone, let's eat. We've package unwrapping to take care of, and tomorrow is another plowing day." Throughout the festivities, Margaretta's thoughts skipped from her earlier melancholy to wishing her family could be with her to enjoy the happiness she felt. Suddenly she realized that she was truly Hep. Py, not because of the lovely gifts she was receiving, but because these were her friends. 'They had been trying to be friendly all along, she realized, as she thought back on the times that Jane had gone out of her way to speak to her, that Betty had invited her and Bob over, and that the others, too, had been more than kind. But in feeling herself a stranger she had not given them the benefit of the doubt. Under cover of the gay talk about the table she said to Bob, "Could we invite the families to a churrasco next Saturday?" She saw his surprised expression and hastened to explain, "We could use some of the beef in the locker, couldn't we?" His face broke into a wide grin. "Of course," he said. "It would be great." T was late when they carried their load of gifts to the car, calling back as they went, "Be sure to come early Saturday for the barbecue." The sky was alive with stars and the moon shone upon neatly plowed fields, mile after mile of them, as the car skimmed along the road. "It's beautiful," she said, looking out the car window. "I didn't think you thought so,' Bob said. "You've been so homesick, I wondered if you would ever like it here." His voice sounded tender but sad. "You've known, then." She stated the fact quietlv. "Of course," he answered. "It STRANGER IN THEIR MIDST shows. You couldn't hide it from me, and I doubt that you've hidden it from the others." She sat for several minutes without speaking, the hurt which she had caused others paining her much more than had the homesickness. In the distance she could see a faint glow, the light from the living room lamp which they always left on when they went out. It was home, her home, hers and Bob's. His friends were her friends, but it was up to her to meet them halfway. That she had not done. She had been wrong, living physically in Wyoming and spiritually in Brazil. She knew that now. They drew closer to the light and its glow shone more brightly. "Bob," she said, "I'm sorry. I've been foolish and selfish." He reached out and rested his calloused hand on the nape of her 229 neck. "Not foolish, honey. Not selfish. Many of us missionaries were homesick the same way when we went to Brazil. Until we deccided that underneath your customs and different way of doing things you were all very much like us, with the same desires, hopes, frustrations." "Why didn't you tell me?" "I couldn't have told you. It's something each of us finds out for himself." "Bob, Bob," she said, shaking her head, trying to rid herself of the thoughts she had had just that afternoon. "Bob, don't let me forget it." "T don't believe you will," he said. He stopped the car and went around to her side to help her out. "You go on in. I'll bring the gifts." She walked into the living room and not only saw the glow of the light but also felt its warmth.