I'm sorry for your flowers," held only nostalgia for Beth, because Sister Loomis would never say them to her again. Sister Loomis was dead and gone, as Cleo, the Akers' youngest daughter, had said in that whimsical little poem she had been working on for her college English class, last week when she was home for Easter. How did it go? Beth thought, as she proceeded mechanically to collect her hat, handbag, gloves, and Gospel Essentials class textbook, and_ lay them on the bed, ready to seize the moment Ivor drove down from Priesthood meeting to take her to Sunday School. Sister Loomis is dead and gone, Who loved the corner her house stood on So inordinately That sometimes we Used to say facetiously, "If that house isn't haunted, it goes to show That no one is ever allowed to go Around haunting houses...." "I'M SORRY FOR YOUR FLOWERS" Maybe Cleo shouldn't say quite so much facetiously, but since it was only to be used as an English assignment in a college class a hundred miles away, Beth guessed it was all tight. Anyway, Sister Loomis would feel like haunting her house, if she could see how the numerous Wilsons darted around it, or observe the second Wilson boy, Randy, plunging this minute through the opening she and Beth had always kept in the bridal wreath hedge so they could take a short cut between their two houses. She would have to get Ivor to plant a sturdy bush in that gap, she thought, as she glanced at the clock and discovered that it was time to get ready for Sunday School. She must have a bath and do up her long hair, in which the gray locks were beginning to predominate over the brown. HILE preparing for Sunday School, Beth allowed herself to relive the blossoming of her friendship with Sister Loomis. At first, she had been disappointed to find that her neighbor on the corner was an elderly widow, while on the other side lived a couple whose only children were twin boys, almost grown. No one for her tots to play with in the back yards. No one to talk with about her sewing, or to go to P T' A with when Ivor could not go with her. Then she had started to plan and plant her flower beds. "I'm sorry for your evergreens," Sister Loomis would say, stepping through the newly set out bridal wreath hedge. "They like elbow room, and you aren't giving them much. They will end up scraping the paint right off your house." Or, "I'm sorry for your dahlias, Beth. 'They love sunshine, and you're setting them right where it will always be shady." There had been moments, too, when Sister Loomis was generous with things other than advice. "Here's a start of my iris, Beth. It's from the start my son brought back from his mission. It came from the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Now it should grow fine, if you set it tight here." Or, "Come and taste my red currant jelly, Beth. I've made some corn meal muffins. We should have some kind of refreshment break occasionally." Beth had expected her sons to dash to the post office or grocery store for the older woman. 'They were proud of what they had done for Sister Loomis, after Beth had urged them into doing it. They liked, now, to have their wives told that they had been the kind of boys who helped old ladies. There had been sad, agonizing times, though, with the phone shrilling out in the night, and the aging voice, made harsh with pain, "Beth, I've got a terrible gallstone colic. Can you come over and be with me? Beth, I'm." | Of course Beth could. Through the gap in the hedge she would go, while Ivor watched at the window a bit protestingly, and then went back to bed. Applying the electric pad and hot water bottle, praying with Sister Loomis, resting on the dining room couch at last, just before morning, Beth had come to love and need the older woman, as one comes to love and need those one serves. And when Sister Loomis finally consent- 232 ed to have an operation, Beth had been in and out of the house on the corncr, first in anxiety, finally with gratitude. She remembered other phone calls. ""Come over, Beth. I've learned the best sherbet. It's all fruit. It could never hurt the touchiest liver." Happy years, until Sister Loomis was really very old. "This old age business, Beth," she would say with a chuckle. NOM, with Sister Loomis gone, Beth had found time to sense that all of the original neighbors had cither moved away or died, until she and Ivor, who had been the youngest couple for so long, were the very oldest. All the newcomers were extremely busy and bustling. They did not need Beth or even seem to have time to notice that she was tere. The change on the corner was the most noticeable of all, with four youngsters often playing dolls in the little grape arbor that Sister Loomis had always cherished with an almost comical zeal, and Randy sometimes even walking his bike through the gap in the hedge. Beth had coiled her long hair ncatly and was just beginning to conccal hairpins deftly in its soft waves, when she became conscious of a yapping on the corner. She half remembered a vague sense of hearing the same sound in the night. Not a puppy! She would just step over and part the bedroom curtains to see. Oh, but it was, and an Airdale, at that! Beth had always suffered from an unreasonable fear. Of dogs, especially Airdales. They were so disturbingly active! She looked on in mounting dismay, as Rick, the five-year-old Wilson, all dressed for Sunday School, held out his arms to the puppy, calling, "Here, Prince! Here, Prince!" The unco-operative puppy gamboled mertily off in the opposite direction. Scampering after him, Rick scooped him up. The puppy promptly began pawing Rick's best clothes, while Cherry Ann, though only three, called out urgently, "He'll dirty your Sunday School coat!" Beth's colorful shag rugs from the bedrooms were still on the lines, she suddenly remembered. She had washed them yesterday and _ left them hanging out to dry overnight. Anything hanging on a clothesline was always so much bait for an untrained puppy. Besides, she did hate to see things hanging on a clothesline on Sunday. Could she just step quietly out and snatch them in now without attracting "Prince" to snag her best nylons? If Rick would only keep holding him for a few moments. Buttoning her housecoat clear down, Beth went out through the back porch and sped quietly to the clotheslines. She could feel a short end from her coil of hair switching about, but it was no time to worry about that. She was reaching for the last rug, when Mrs. Wilson's voice came from a back window, "Put Prince down, Rick! Right now, Rick!" _ The yapping began again as Beth snatched the last rug and started for the house. Remembering her father's long-ago coaching, "Never run from a dog," she walked, anything but calmly, toward the porch. [N spite of her prudence, the puppy observed her. Through the "I'M SORRY FOR YOUR FLOWERS" hedge he frisked. He snatched at the ends of the rugs dangling from her left arm. Forgetting all rules, Beth stamped her foot. At him. She shooed at him with the last-grabbed rug, which was still clutched in her right hand. A wild dash brought her to the screen door. She snatched it so violently that the hook flipped up and descended into the loop, all in one second. Locked out of her own house, Beth shooed with the rug again. The puppy had become a leaping bundle of active muscles. Both children were scampering through the hedge, shouting, "Here, Prince,' and, "Here, boy," in a confusing medley. Then Prince was scooped up for a second opportunity to paw little Rick's best coat. Erma Wilson emerged through the hedge, completing the zipping up of her pink duster, and calling, "Rick, take that puppy to Cathy and tell her to shut him in the basement. Then tell her to brush and straighten your coat for you." "Sister Akers," Erma went on compassionately, "'you're deathly white. Sit down on the step, and il get you a glass of water." As Erma reached for the screen door, Beth said shakily, "It's hooked. The hook flipped on when I tried to hurry." Beth could not help -laughing at the ridiculousness of being so afraid of a little puppy that a child of five could almost manage. "I'll go around to the front door, Sister Wilson, she said, starting around the house. Then, noticing the concern in Erma Wilson's blue eyes, she added, "I'm all right. I don't have heart trouble or anything. I just 233 got panicky when I couldn't get in. It's silly to be so afraid of a little dog." "Oh, everyone's afraid of something," said Erma, accompanying her. "Don't ever show me any pretty beetles you catch. They make me shudder all over." The front door was still locked. Ivor had not released it when he picked up the morning paper, and he had left through the back door. "Tll get in when my husband comes for me. He carries a key," Beth stated. "You'd better go finish getting ready for Sunday School. Time's passing by." "But then you won't be ready," protested E: rma. "We can miss Sunday School, if we have to, and get there in time for fast meeting," said Beth. "I must be a comical sight, with this misplaced pony-tail on the side of my head." She attempted to put her hair back into a coil with the few hairpins remaining on her head. "Now, you run along," she urged. "But it's Prince's fault," Erma protested. "It's my fault for being such a scare baby," said Beth. W HILE they returned mechanically to the back screen door, they were joined by Erma's five youngsters, who followed along as interested spectators. "Cathy could go down to the church on the bike after the key," mused Erma, "but I'd hate to disturb Brother Akers in Priesthood meeting. He'd think something serious had happened, and so would everyone else. Besides, Priesthood meeting would be almost over before she could get back." 234 "Maybe if you pulled the door just the same way you did when = hook flew on, it would fly off," suggested Cathy. Beth tried it. But maybe she could not pull just the same way with the door hooked, or maybe she needed stimulation from Prince, to do it just the same way. At least, the hook did not yield. "It's a very good hook," remarked Rick. "It's a very bad hook," said Cherry Ann.; iRMA tried giving the screen door a quick jerk. Cathy, Nedra, and Sue each tried it. 'The hook did not yield. "T could push an ice pick through the screen wire and flip it off," said Erma, "but that would leave a hole big enough for insects to get through." "Maybe one of us could get in through a window," suggested Sue. "I keep the screens hooked," said Beth. "Still, I did wash windows yesterday, and I might have forgotten to hook one. Really, Sister Wilson, those who aren't ready for Sunday School had better go home. The rest could come along and watch me try the screens. 'That would help them stay ready for Sunday School." But the whole group persisted in following along. Not one screen budged until they reached the rather high window of the bathroom. That screen swung out easily. Raising the window was another matter. "TIT don't believe it's locked, though," speculated Erma. "Cathy, you get the littlest stepladder. Nedra, get Danny's thinnest screwdriver. Sue, bring that wooden box of Randy's from the basement. And don't let Prince out. Rick, you stay right here! I believe I can get the screwdriver under, and raise it just a little, then get it up and get in." "It's awkward inside," said Beth. "The bathtub is right under the window, and that short window doesn't open very wide. I don't know whether one of us could get in through it. And I don't know whether one should try to get in head first or feet first. It's so high, it will be hard to crawl into." By this time the girls were back. Erma's efforts moved the window a little. Then Beth held the screwdriver in place while Erma and Cathy got their fingers under and lifted the sash. The opening was not wide, however. "Now, Cathy, you take Sue home and see that both of you are ready," directed Erma. ""The rest of you may stay here and watch." "Oh, Mommie," protested Sue, but she followed Cathy docilely enough. It was apparent that only a small child could be wedged through the narrow opening. "Here, Rick, let's take off your coat," said Erma. "Sister Akers, can you stand on the box and reach to hold the window open?" "I can hold his Sunday coat for him," Ann. "You'd better turn him on his stomach and put his feet in first," suggested Beth. "That's right," School volunteered Cherry said Erma. GTANDING on the ladder, she put Rick's feet through the winTe, and held onto him while he wriggled his pudgy body through the small opening. "I'M SORRY FOR YOUR FLOWERS" "Hold onto his armpit with one hand, Sister Akers. Nedra, you reach up and hold his hands until I can get to hold him by them," directed Erma. What a struggle! How glad Beth was that the window had just been washed, and the sill was not all dusty against everyone's clean skin and good clothes! While Erma slowly lowered Rick, Beth thought, Ill never forget those half-frightened round eyes of his. But neither would she ever forget his warm, triumphant smile when his feet found footing in the tub. "Now, when you climb out, just go to the front door and open it, and we'll all be on the front porch," she said. Everything seemed right to Beth, as they let down the window, and all trooped around the house. These were wonderful neighbors. She had just been resisting change and the passage of time. Why, she was the Sister Loomis of this neighborhood, now! And Erma Wilson was stepping into her old place. New faces appeared in the different roles, and the patterns changed a bit, but the same wholesome dramas in the little neighborhood were reenacted. Beth had been like the little girls who all want to play they're the mother. But you can't have the part of the mother all of the time, sometime 235 you must take your turn at being the little old lady, Beth decided. As if reading her thoughts, Erma said, "Sister Akers, I know how you must miss Sister Loomis. I've been told what friends you were to each other. I guess we sometimes sccm like a tribe of aborigines, overrunning her neat little corner." She laid her hand on Beth's arm. "But well try to be good neighbors. Enjoy us. We're a lot of fun." "IT know," said Beth softly. Her door was thrown open, and Rick almost duplicated his former triumphant grin. "There's our fast offering boy, starting at the other end of the block," said Erma. 'You sit here on Sister Akers' porch, Nedra, and tell him both families will have to pay our fast offerings at church today. Tell him we're all just about late for Sunday School, and we have to finish getting ready." Yes, Erma Wilson is just like I was, thought Beth. Well, if I'm the Sister Loomis of this neighborhood, so be it. Erma's chrysanthemums did need dividing and resetting. As the Wilsons began to leave, Beth drew herself up. "When there's time, I'll have to talk to you," she said, summoning what she hoped was her friendliest tone of voice. "I'm right sorry for your chrysanthemums, Erma!"