Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1901 "For THE Ricuts OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF AL NatTIoNns'" A CHILD OF NATURE: A child of nature!... The new-born babe is the fairest, swectest flower of Paradise, and when the mother clasps it to her breast it is the supreme moment of her existence. No other earthly joy can possibly compare with the ecstacv of motherhood. We behold the child! Who is it? What is it? It is curiously and wonderfully made; it surpasses our understanding. There are no words to convey the idea of the mother-love. It is God's child still, and it is its mother's; the spirit of the Eternal animates it, and it is endowed from on high with understanding in embryo; it smiles, it cries, it opens its eyes upon the new world into which it has come, and, perchance, it wonders why — we none of us know, not even the mother who has borne it, and who claims it by a sort of divine nght.... But Joseph Smith, the prophet of this dispensation, has told us that we consented to come, to leave the glorious mansions on high and take upon us mortality. The beauty of the little babe bespoke The harmonies which to the soul belong, And all the higher, finer senses woke To the divinest melody of song. —Mtrs. E. B. Wells WOMAN WEATHER FORECASTER: Mrs. L. H. Greenwald, of York, Pa., is said to be the only woman weather forecaster in the country. She has been employed by the government in that capacity for twelve years, and has been commended fot exceptional accuracy, and is an acknowledged authority on climatology and meteorology. Mrs. Greenwald is also president of a woman's organization interested in scientific research — The National Science Club. —News Note RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS: Sister Alice Woolley said, "Through the mercies of our Heavenly Father we meet again in our conference to be fed the bread of life. We mect together to encourage one another and to listen to the instructions that will be given us. We are a blessed people in being privileged to live on the earth in these last davs... And the greatest of these blessings is the privilege we have of embracing the gospel of Jesus Christ.. Elizabeth Williams, Cor. Sec. THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE COMMISSION: By request of Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who represents the United States on the International Peace Commission of women, it is expected the women of Utah will arrange for meetings on Peace and Arbitration on Saturday, May 18. Certainly our sisters throughout the state are in favor of creating a sentiment for peace.... —Kditorial Notes ZION'S MIGHTY KING O, solemn thought, the Savior's slain! But here we'll testify of Him, Till He shall come to earth again, To reign as Zion's Mighty King. —Lydia D. Alder Page 236 R. JANET TRAVELL has been appointed personal physician to President John F'. Kennedy, the first woman in history to occupy that post and the first nonmilitary physician to hold it since 1885. Dr. Travell is fifty-nine and has long specialized in sources of pain, particularly those caused by muscular spasms. She has two talented daughters, one an artist and one an opera singer, and is a grandmother. ARGO WALTERS, eighteenyear-old skier from Sandy, Utah, in the Sun Valley open slalom, tied Linda Meyers, a member of the United States Olympic squad last year. In the giant slalom she finished only one second behind Anne Heggtveit, the Olympic slalom champion from Canada. She is expected to be the next United States star in international skiing competition. TOYOKO YAMAZAKI, daughter of a kobu (seaweed) merchant, is one of Japan's most prominent writers. Her novel Noren, in 1957, won the annual Naoki literary award for the best novel by a promising young writer, and was followed in rapid succession by four other novels. Her journalistic experience has included three years on the staff of one of Japan's foremost newspapers, the Mainichi of Osaka.