She Locust Sree Shall Bloom Again Pauline L. Jensen THE locust tree meant many things. 'To Mama it was a reminder of her childhood home in the sleepy, gentle Southern town where she had played beneath the boughs of another locust tree, which, too, had spread its protective arms above the kitchen roof. When Mama had come to the prairies as a bride, the lonely stretches of the land, bereft of friendly trees, had filled her with a poignant loneliness. Then, on one of her infrequent trips back to her old home, Mama had, on her return, brought a locust sapling. She had planted it within reach of the kitchen stoop, tended it with loving care, and it had returned that care by growing straight and strong, and lifting up its boughs as though to thwart the molten sun and bitter winds that blew across the prairies. And Mama, unaccustomed to this harsh, demanding land, felt, in the locust tree, a link between the old life and the new one. To Papa, the tree was a source of comfort, for he could sit within its shade when he returned from work and see the prairie sights and hear the prairie sounds he loved. At noon it gave him cooling shelter. At night the wind that blew unceasingly was tempered by the boughs into a gentle breeze. To the children, the tree meant a dedicated place of play. Here they had their swing and hammock, and here they built their cities in the sand, and made mud pies. And here their collie burrowed close against the house and watched them at their play. And every year a pair of robins nested in the leafy branches of the tree and fretted at the children down below. And still the locust tree had yet another meaning, a deeper one by far. For it was a harbinger of spring, both of the land and of the spirit. For with the blooming of the tree, the meadow larks were heard to sing, and fields of winter wheat began to green. And long before the blooming, Mama watched with eager eyes for signs of the tree's awakening. When it came, she would say with lilting voice, "Our Father is good. He has wrought another spring, and now the locust tree will bloom again." Then one day in late winter, death stalked the small community, and Mama's firstborn son, young and handsome, was taken from her. Mama's heart was frozen, and her face wore a still and quiet look. She did not cry, but neither did she smile. She brushed aside the clumsy efforts Papa made to comfort her, and walked the days as though alone, uncaring. That spring the locust tree bloomed gloriously, but Mama did not notice. 'The children gathered handfuls of the fragrant blossoms and brought them to her, but she only stared at them in silence. All through the summer the children brought her offerings; the newest kittens, which she stroked mechanically, but did not cuddle as had been her wont. And when, in fall, they gathered armloads of the prairie goldenrod, she only turned unseeing eyes upon it. Page 242 THE LOCUST TREE SHALL BLOOM AGAIN 243 WHEN winter settled down upon the land, Mama did not read aloud to the children the Bible stories that they loved. When they asked for them, she turned a bitter look upon them, and shook her head. And it was Papa, now, who heard the prayers at night, instead of Mama. Mama's face was set and cold, her thoughts remote, withdrawn. Then spring once more cast its spell upon the land. There came an April evening of mauve and gold skies, and undulating green across the prairie floor. 'The children played beneath the tree, and Papa rested on the kitchen stoop. They all looked up in surprise as Mama stepped outside. In her hands she held the worn and much-used Bible she had brought with her as a bride. Her hands caressed it lovingly. Her eyes were red from weeping, and her face, though still, had a different look; a washed and tranquil look, just like the earth after a quick and cleansing storm. She paused and looked around her, as if she saw all for the first time after a long absence. Papa stared at her, and in his eyes a light began to glow. He reached out for her hand, and took it tenderly. She smiled at him and took a deep breath of the fresh, clean air. Then she raised her face unto the locust tree and spoke in wondering tones, "Our Father is good! He has wrought another spring, and now the locust tree will bloom again."