She Best-Laid Plans Maude Proctor F I had known the anguish that telephone call the other morning was going to cause, I think I would have turned over in_ bed, pulled a pillow over my head, and stayed dead to the world while the bell jangled on. But it is the duty of a Relief Society president to be available in case of calamity or catastrophe befalling any member of the ward, so I sighed and sleepily fumbled my way over to the noisy phone, hoping that no one would be stirring that early to gaze through the open window at my night-gowned, barefooted progress. "Hello?" I asked hopefully, but I might just as well not have hoped. "Good morning, Sister Jones!" came the particular tone of voice our bishop uses when he has something difficult that he wants the Relief Society to do. Oh, what? I wondered, thinking of the huge ironing waiting, the apricots ready to be canned, and of my upset house to be straightened before an overdue visit of some relatives. "Well," our good bishop said, "T've had a call from the stake president saying that two of the Brethren are arriving from Salt Lake, and they want to see our Stake Center. A lot of talking has been done about the planning and selection of kitchen equipment, and President Steele feels that he simply cannot let the Brethren see the place in its present condition." "And what is the condition?" I asked, more cheerfully, beginning to feel confident that this problem could be handled easily. "Well, it's pretty messed up with mud from yesterday's rain, so it will take a few hours of rather heavy work by some of you fine sisters." I try to keep in mind that I must be an example to all and a "very present help" to our hard-working bishop whom the whole ward justly loves and appreciates. "IT wonder why we were elected," I mused meekly. "Why, Sister Jones, the stake president knows I can depend on you sisters getting things done well and quickly." "All right, Bishop," I said more brightly, "I'll ask some of the younger sisters to go over, and it will be taken care of at once." "I knew I could count on you!" came in a relieved tone, "thank you." I hung up and planned whom to call as I dressed quickly. When I had the bacon and eggs in front of the family, I made out my list and called my First Counselor, who is my right hand, my moral support, and my best friend. "Sure, we can do it. Nothing to it," she said, soothing and smoothing the way before me as she always does. Hummed contentedly as I cleared away the breakfast things and prepared to start the canning. Just get this fruit out of the way, I planned, and then I'll try to go over and help. Drat that phone! I thought as I Page 257 258 reached for it with one hand, while I turned down the gas with the other. It was Sister Pratt, one of the loveliest women I know, and our stake Relief Society president. "Sister Jones," she said, "I have something that has to be done at once, and you know I always think of your ward when I'm really on a spot." Words like that are usually music in my ears. It's nice to be appreciated, but today we are busy! I protested to myself, while I assured President Pratt that we were at her service. "We have to have ten large bags of rags for rugs all cut, sewed, and delivered tonight. Think you can do it?" she asked. "Oh, certainly," I tossed off airily as I thought of several of the older sisters of the ward who had been our dependable stand-bys for years, and who were now being called on mainly for the less energetic sit-down jobs. They will be glad to do this and I can get the group organized and forget them, was my line of thought. Forget them? Forget them! As I moved toward the stove, someone pounded on the back screen, and almost simultaneously there came a series of impatient blasts from a car horn in front of the house. "Just a typical day!' I observed aloud and called, "wait a minute" to the back door and hurried to the front. My next-door neighbor called after me, "Say, your daughter's been trying to get you, but your line has been busy. Her husband left this morning for the cattle range, and she guesses she had I'll never, never better be on the way to the hospital." Wouldn't it just happen that way? Mrs. Miller shook out the dampened clothes for me, while I took the apricots to the basement. "Honey," she said, "I'd take them home and iron them for you, if I hadn't promised Don I'd go with him to pick up feed this afternoon." "Don't dream of it," I told her "TIl be back sometime tomorrow, and everything will wait. Just tell Tom where I've gone and I won't even have to write him a note. He has been expecting this and knows exactly what to do." "Oh, dear!" Suddenly I remembered the car at the front. At that moment Mary, my First Counselor, came in. "What goes on in here? JI didn't have time to come in. Thought you'd at least stick your head out the door so I could tell you that you'll have to do this telephoning. I'm on my way to mother's. She has had another spell with her heart, and I'll have to stay with her for a few days." I motioned for Mrs. Miller to keep still. I'd have to figure out a way to get both groups of women called without Mary worrying about it. Her mother really needed her. We waved goodbye and turned and looked at each other. Mrs. Miller threw up her hands and sat down. I felt like it, too, but my poor daughter was depending on me to get her to the hospital. I knew by the drawn blinds across the way that my Secretary was having one of her migraine headaches, so it would be no use to ask 'her to do any telephoning. My Second Counselor was away. Who. Else? THE BEST-LAID PLANS Mmmm! So I decided to risk calling Louise, our literature class leader, to do the telephoning for me. She is rather absent-minded and seems to live in the realm of books. Sometimes their characters seem more alive to her than the people around her. On my way to my daughter's, though, I stopped at Louise's and gave her the two lists with careful instructions as to just what to say to each one, and she promised to begin telephoning immediately. "Don't worry," she said, "I'll get Grandma Wilkins to help call the older group, and Eileen will help with the others. 'They will all be working in no time." "That's a good idea!" I told her and drove away, feeling that I could put Relicf Society right out of my mind. HE next day as I drove back into town, Brother Stone hailed me from the curb. He smiled, waving a negligent hand, and said, "Those old women surely made the place shine over at the Stake Center!" "Old women!" T echoed blankly. A couple of hours later, I uneasily decided mavbe ['d better check on what had happened. Louise was all sweetness and light. "The bishop was real pleased at how nice the Stake Center looked, and Sister Pratt was to pick up the tug rags last night about six." The uneasy feeling persisted, so at last I called Sister Pratt. "Everything was just fine," she assured me, "at what age do the sisters over your way start to get old, anyway?" Well, I thought as I hung up, Grandma Wilkins must have been 259 feeling pretty chipper over those rug rags yesterday. I was all set for a very restful evening when 'Tom came home. "The stake president was all steamed up about our ward sending some eighty-year-old women over to the Stake Center yesterday to scrub floors," was the bombshell he dropped. I was aghast! Louise must have mixed up the lists! I worried all through dinner. Tom got all out of patience at me because I didn't call someone to see just what the situation was, but I couldn't bear the thought of those poor old ladies with lame _ backs, stiff knees, and probably worse. Oh, goodness! E: very one of those young women who had been called to tear rug rags would be so insulted we'd never get them to Relief Society again all winter. If there had been any graceful way of getting out of going to Sunday School that morning, I wouldn't have gone. In plain truth, I didn't want to face either group of sisters who had worked the other day. There was sure to be lots of explaining and apologizing to do. I was ashamed of myself, too. I should have had the backbone to go to see each of those lovely old ladies who had been asked to do work that was surely beyond their strength. I wasn't quite so worried about the younger group. 'Time would help smooth their ruffled feelings, but I felt I just couldn't face those old ladies. Old ladies! Well! I only hope I'm that young when I'm that old, if you know what I mean! Down the steps Fern Lehigh came sailing right for me. 260 "Hi!" she said, "Grandma Wilkins is sure looking for you." Every step into Sunday School was torture. I didn't see Grandma Wilkins until she was standing beside me. I looked up slowly, and there she was, positively beaming at me. "Sister Jones, you are a genius! How do you do it?" She didn't give me time to answer, which was a good thing. "I just don't see how you always manage to do the right thing at the right time!" I was standing with my mouth open. "My granddaughter Nell," she went on, "was completely done in, in fact she was thinking of going up to her sister's for a few days to get a good rest when 'she got the call from Louise. If she had been asked to clean the Stake Center she would have consented, of course, but it would have put her right in bed, I know. Here you asked her to go and sit in a quiet room and visit with a few of her best friends, and it was as good as a doctor's prescription." I was walking away in a daze, when she stepped me with a gentle touch. "Sister Jones, you just don't know what yesterday meant to us old-timers you sent over to the Stake Center. My back has been kind of stiff, but it made my heart sing to think that with something important, like fixing things nice for the Brethren, you needed some of us old hands who really know how." Tears came to my eyes, and I hugged her and said, "Yes, we love you and will always need you very much." Well, they always say "All's well that ends well,' but I feel ten years older! >