pioneer kitchen, the big family workshop. That room knew the true meaning of the word. A burning pine back log in the wide fireplace warmed and helped make light the work space. All the family from parents to the young children shared in the preparation of almost everything the big family ate or wore. The farm, garden, orchard, and range land, with hand labor, produced the bread, milk, meat, butter, cheese, chickens, eggs, fruit, vegetables, honey, molasses, wool, and even boots and shoes. These last were made from oil-tanned hides made into leather at a local tannery. Ours was a typical pioneer kitchen. It had wide pine-board floors, whitewashed walls, iron cookstove. Woodbox, wash bench, water buckets and wash basin, roller towel, mirror, comb case, sewing machine, almanac, and wood chairs. In the middle of the room was the big fall-leaf table, and around it much of the work of togetherness centered. On that sturdy oilcloth-covered table many hands worked in various activities. There the year's supply of farm-fattened, dressed hogs were trimmed; the hams, bacon, lard, headcheese, spareribs, tenderloin, and sausages were readied for table use for the present time and for the months ahead. On that table top were prepared the orchard and garden grown viands for preserves, jellies, mincemeat, chowchow, chili sauce, sweet pickled peaches, and relishes. On its oilcloth cover were rolled and shaped pie paste, cookies, fned cakes, cinnamon buns, and the tender soda biscuits. Fresh from the oven the great tins of homemade bread came to cool, always so crusty and tempting. The weekly ironings were always done on the same table top, and 'there were pinned dress and suit patterns for the family sewing. Above its top hung the coal-oil lamp that lighted it for an eating board, and for evening reading. Around it, as an altar, we knelt for morning and evening prayer. Within the radius of the lighted fireplace's warmth and light, through the long winter evenings, we sewed carpet rags, pieced quilt blocks and did the family knitting while we listened to "once-upon-a-time" stories and ate pine nuts we had gathered from the nearby hills. Pioneer life had its problems, its struggles, and hard work, but it had its compensations in the togetherness that we shared and in the lovely memories that are ours — memonies that for all of us, persist as an interlude, rich and deep in homely joys, an interlude of gracious living. SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES _ COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen _ ----00e-.20 —— GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner -.30 _— GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen ------.-eee 25 a4 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen...25 a INCLINE YOUR EAR—Wilkes...25 = IN THY FORM—Madsen.20 a, LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 2$ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Elgar 2 25 — LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER— VWerelt _._u..-.-.-----atls.. Ile.=, 7 -20 ore LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20..---- OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 — THE 23rd PSALM—Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank mr mae ee ree ee ee ee ee | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South |