She Big and the Little Maude Rubin The Chinese dove and the hummingbird Sit here together on one bough Of the braided willow which has not heard Of their different size or status, though The dove is a plutocrat, plump and rich, Big is his name, with a guttural coo; The other, a small irridescence which Gleams feather-lightning, nor cares who Sits on the willow bough and moans. Regardless of size or spread of wing, He slices the blue air-waves and owns A tuby: But the common linnet sings Better than either the Little or Big, As they sit here preening on summer's twig. {Rejuvenation Cleo J. Johnson eae in a sheltered spot by the side of the main road in the dry farm section of southcast Idaho, stands a little, weatherbeaten, now ramshackle, brown house. When life seems to close in on me, when I feel I must get away from it all, that is where I like to go. I've taken my family there. They peer through the windows into the empty rooms, and fight mosquitoes down by the creek while eating lunch. I have led them up the path that reaches the top of the cliff behind the house where the waving grain fields can be seen. But soon it's, "Come on, Mom. Let's go." "Gee, it's hot." "I'm tired!" "Haven't you seen enough?" The last time I went there, I left them home. You see, this house is part of me. 'The property belongs to someone else now, but this is the place where I was born, and as such, will always be mine. I look through those dusty windows and I hardly see the cracks in the wall or the litter on the floor. I see it as it used to be with its big black stove and the woodbox in the comer, the rust-colored velvet portiere that hung in the doorway, with rows of photographs and pictures lining the wall, and the green plaid steamer rug covering the day bed. ~ IT walk down by the creek and, instead of a muddy, hoof-marked watering hole for cattle, I see it clear and sparkling, crystal- -cool straight from the mountain, with watercress growing, and a box-like cooler where milk and butter were kept in tin pails. I chmb that path, not even caring that my best slippers are ankle-deep in dust. The shimmering of the quaking aspen trees, the smell of the haw berries and the hum of the insects give me a feeling of peace. And once again as I stand on that hilltop, with the wind blowing through my hair, it is as if I were a child at my father's side. I watch the golden grain ripple. Then I go home again, and life seems sweeter and dearer than it was.