[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 498 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out The Song of the Hills | Helen Mrovka]
[The Home Inside and Out The Song of the Hills Helen Mrovka]

The Song of the Hills Helen Mrovka = There were many sounds in the song of the hills. There was the murmuring of the brook that flowed gently past the old house that stood on the hilltop. There were the wind sounds which whistled through the rafters, and rattled the window panes, and the raindrops which pattered on the roof, the rustling of wild pigeons as they flew over the canyon, the eerie howl of the coyote that was heard in the hills after dark, or of a lion roaring on the mountain top. There was the tinkle of cowbells as the cows came up through the pasture at sunset to be milked and fed, and the men's footsteps as they came in with the milk to be put away. There was the gentle voice of the mother, as she called to the children to come in to the evening meal or to do a chore. There was the crowing of the old black rooster at the break of day, and the clucking of hens in the barnyard, sounding like little old ladies at a sewing bee. The hoot of the owl in the old oak tree, and the harsh calling of crows to each other in the old fruit orchard were heard. There was the music of violin and guitar, that was played at the Saturday night dances in the old schoolhouse. There were these and many more sounds, but now the song is ended, and only the melody lingers on in the music of the hills. THE MAKER OF HILLS 1 look to the hills—dear hills of home— Untouched by winter's frigid blasts, Ageless, steadfast, they give me strength; I Summer's lightning and crashing thunder, Bulwarks of majestic splendor, Serenely they triumph, keeping vigil; impressively stretched the valley's length. Their constancy dissolves my fears away. As dusk envelops my universe, They hover protectingly near and strong; I whisper. A plea to the Maker of hills— Extend thy peace, and thy love prolong. Ng.;. I > \ —Annie C. Esplin r As Sounding Bras: Jody Shields « The sign at the side of the road read: "Welcome to Danville —Pop. 8,527." Madge Hilliard sighed. The trip was almost finished. She had been on the road for four and a half hours, and she was feeling the effects of driving a far greater distance than she was accustomed to. Not only was she not used to driving for such a long time, but the trip had been anything but pleasant for her. "And it's sure to get worse," she told herself as she turned the car off the main highway toward the older, well-established residential area of the town. The entire four and a half hours had been a turmoil of doubt and indecision. As a result, Madge was feeling tense and nervous as well as the driving fatigue. She had gone over and over in her mind the events leading up to this trip to Danville, and, although she was still unwilling to change her original decision, she could not reconcile her mind and conscience to the fact that it was the thing she should do. Perhaps Lyle's attitude contributed to her chaotic state of thought. Not that he was against her insistence not to move, but more that she knew he wanted to move. She remembered again their conversation as he walked her out to the car. "Well," he had asked, "what are you going to say to them?" "Really Lyle," she had replied, "don't you think it's time they stopped running my life?" "What is that supposed to mean?" he asked, looking as if he would like to penetrate her mind and find the answer for himself. "Oh, nothing, I guess," she faltered, "I... I just resent the way they put it in the letter... 

499 July 1968

 almost as if I were a pawn for them to move about as they wish." He laughed then, a rich, fullbodied laugh that made his eyes crinkle at the corners, and made her lips draw into a tight line. "Come now, honey. Aren't you being a bit melodramatic? I mean, after all, your mother will need a professional nurse, and the town has needed another good doctor since your father died. You are a nurse, and I like to think I'm a good doctor. Besides, you know I've always wanted to practice in a small town." "Humph!" was would say. "Well," he finished as he gave her a parting kiss, "do whatever you think best, dear. Just don't say anything you'll be sorry for later." all Madge A; she pulled out of the driveway and started on her way, Madge kept hearing Lyle's words echo in her mind, "I've always wanted to practice in a small town." "That's just it!" she retorted to herself. "I don't want to get smothered in a small town again. I grew up in Danville. I know what it's like. Everyone knowing everyone else's business. No one ever really having any private thoughts or being able to do anything without someone or everyone knowing about it. "And when it comes to making a decision! Well, everyone has an opinion, and no one hesitates to let you know what should be done. No thanks," she said to herself, "Tl take the anonymity of a big city. Thank you, but I prefer to live my own life." 500 She wouldn't have said that to Lyle, though he, too, was reared in a small town. He had nothing but praise and adulation for small town living, however. Even before he finished his internship, he had talked of moving to a small town to practice. Madge had never openly opposed the idea, but she had been very conscientious about making sure things didn't work out that way for them. Madge had worked for several years at the Lakeside General Hospital and knew many of the older, well-established doctors. When she learned of one who was looking for a young doctor to form a partnership with him, she immediately recommended that he ask Dr. Lyle Hillard. Lyle, just finished with his internship and looking for a place to practice, was grateful and appreclative for the chance to start out in such a good position. He was a good doctor, and the older doctor was well pleased with his work, so the Hilliards — prospered. Madge was perfectly content with her life. She had quit nursing to become a fulltime mother to their three children. She was active and busy in church work, with civic volunteer work, and PTA. For the first time in her life she felt she was a person of individual worth and accomplishment. Then came Carol's letter. Dear Madge and Lyle: We realize we should have phoned you again, but after our first assessment of the situation, we decided to write instead. Mother's stroke was rather serious and she will need to be in the hospital for some time. Even after she comes We & old family council and decided the most desirable arrangement would be for you and Lyle to move to Danville. We realize town, and Danville surely could use more good doctors. You could move into the old house. It's always been such a nice, roomy place. Mom and Dad reared five children there and had room for We would all help out, of course, but Mom will need the kind of professional care that you can give, Madge. We thought of hirmg 4 nurse, but felt that she wouldn't be as dedicated and concerned about Mother's wellbeing as you would be. Then, too, there's Grandmother. She's not really a problem, but she would surely resent a stranger moving unto the house. - - - on, very persuasively outlining the details and suggesting possible problems ith their logical solutions, and so on. All that redo it!" She had stormed. "They can't make me! What right have they even to suggest such a thing!" She had thrown the letter down and stamped out of the retrieved the calm. "What right have they- - ia Madge asked herself angrily. "They have always done that, and now they are trying to do it again. Well, it won't work now. Tm nota little girl now.