[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 4 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]

school, unnatural and uncomfortable. The office door was open, across from the display case that still flaunted its Christmas joys. Principals, she thought, must also be the last to leave the ship. But voices from the inner room meant that Miss Riley was not alone. Stepping gingerly through the outer door, Jenny headed for the mail slots. She heard the ordinarily calm Miss Riley almost shouting, "I'm aware that you have a problem, Mr. Reynolds, but you can't just accuse without proof."

"Without proof! Good grief, what does it take?" The man's voice was excited, but not belligerent. "I saw this kid in the back yard by the pen. The gate's locked and nobody would just be walking through. What was he doing in there, if not stealing my bird?"

"Maybe he just wanted to look, Mr. Reynolds. This boy is full of curiosity—about everything. And he likes birds."

"Yes, I guess he likes birds! And he took my best pigeon. Every kid on the street saw him with it, and I haven't seen it since."

"Well, what's his story? Have you talked to him about it? Don't you think it would be fair to hear his side before you come charging in here accusing him? Why didn't you ask—"

"I would have," the man interrupted. "I tried to find him, but no one was home at his house, as usual, and I figured the only place I would get any satisfaction short of calling the police was to come here. Most of the kids say you're fair and tough—well, that's a funny

thing to call a lady, but I need you to do something." He paused and softened a little. "I don't want to hurt the boy, but those pigeons are about the only thing I have that mean much to me."

"I understand your wanting to get the bird back all right, and I would like to help, but if you knew Widdy better. . . ."

Jenny started. Widdy! Widdy in trouble? Widdy a thief! Oh, who would have the nerve to accuse him of anything malicious! She set her jaw to quiet her turbulent anger and strode uninvited into the inner office. She looked into the dark eyes of Widdy's accuser, nicer eyes than she had expected, and blurted, "Why, Widdy Turner wouldn't hurt a fly." Had anything ever sounded so trite?

The man looked to Miss Riley for explanation. She gestured a quick, "Mr. Reynolds, this is Miss Harrow, Widdy's teacher." Then to Jenny she said, "Miss Harrow, Mr. Reynolds thinks Widdy stole his prize pigeon this afternoon."

"Think? I know. I saw him."

He was firm. Everything about him was firm, his forehead that ledged deep eyes, his jaw that worked, even when he wasn't talking, his hands that nudged a crease in and out of the hat he held. Jenny thought, That crease doesn't have a chance.

"What makes you think—or as you claim—know this?" Against her will, Jenny's voice mellowed. "I know this boy like the back of my hand (trite again—sure sign of distress) and I know he's incapable of willful malice."

28

"A Partridge In A Pear Tree"

"Well, let me tell you about it then, since you're so sure. No thanks, I don't want to sit," he said to Miss Riley's sudden attempt to play hostess. He half sat on her desk and looked directly at Jenny, appraising her tailored good grooming, though his eyes never left her face. She shifted her weight, suddenly aware of a stray hair and of ankles never quite slim enough.

"This afternoon I came home early," he started. "I'm gonna on a new shift tomorrow. Nobody is ever home at my place in the daytime since my wife died, so I was surprised to see someone moving around in the yard. I was in the bedroom and it took a minute to get to the back door. By the time I did, he was gone."

"And it was Widdy you saw?" asked Miss Riley. "Are you sure?"

"Sure I am. I know all the kids on the street. Sometimes I play football or baseball on the lawn with them. Keeps me in shape. Most of them are pretty good kids. Wish we'd had some. But, anyway, this Turner boy seems sort of strange—never really part of the gang. He'll play for a while and then wander off without saying anything, not even 'so long.' But I know him."

"Oh, you know him, Mr. Reynolds?" injected Jenny. "From just watching him? From never having talked to him? Nobody knows Widdy that way."

He glanced at her but went on, "Well, anyway, a couple of minutes later I went out to feed the birds, and Blossom was missing. She couldn't have got out of the pen by herself." I knew that. So I walked out front to talk to

the kids. They were standing around that big elm tree as they always do after school, even when it's almost freezing like today. There were tracks in the snow and I could see where someone had jumped the fence. I asked the kids, 'Have you seen anybody with my pigeon?' They all nodded and one of them said, 'Yeah, Widdy Turner just went down the street with it.' So, as I told you, I went to his house. Nobody there. I didn't know what to do, but I figured you would. So here I am." He shrugged as if his case were closed.

Jenny's mind whirred. How could Widdy have been in that yard and taken a pigeon and still have been here at school handing her a present, all at about the same time? School had been out—what—an hour and twenty minutes? He had been a busy boy. But what did he want with a pigeon—someone else's? And where was he now?

Miss Riley filled the blank. "The only thing to do is find Widdy. Do you have any idea where he might be, Miss Harrow? Did he say anything at school?"

"As a matter of fact, he was here, not ten minutes ago. He came back to bring me a gift. Come to think of it, I'd like you to see it." She found herself saying it much more to Mr. Reynolds than to the principal. "It would help you to know Widdy." She opened her large bag and drew out the crumpled box.

Carefully she removed the lid and held up the curious cage. "He made this and gave it to me

29

January 1968

for my tree." She handed it to the man. He took it gently and fingered its fragile props.

"Look at that bird," he said after a minute's scrutiny. "The glue on its feet is still wet. He must have placed it on the bell and put the top on sometime since school, maybe even since I saw him in the yard. So what did he do with the pigeon in the meantime?"

"Why don't we go back to your street and look," Jenny proposed, unconscious of a poised ease that had never been hers around men before.

Miss Riley walked back to her desk and plumped into a chair. "You two go hunting and I'll get on the phone. If he's not home, someone will have seen him."

Despite windows twinkling with Christmas tree lights, the neighborhood was cold and deserted as the early dusk turned the gray slush on the walks into crackling mounds and valleys. Jenny even found herself clutching Mr. Reynolds's arm as her three-inch heels wobbled for footing.

"There's where he climbed the fence." He pointed, outwardly unmindful of her hand under his arm, but liking both hands and arm close in an unsteady welcome. "Come through the gate and look. Sorry I didn't have time to shovel again this morning."

The snowy yard showed several sets of footprints, and theirs joined the pocked path to the bird pen in the far corner of the yard. Almost before Jenny could see the birds in the dim twilight, Mr. Reynolds gasped, "Hey!"

and ran toward the cage. "Look, she's here! Blossom's in here. How in the world?" He began examining the catch on the pen and motioned Jenny to join him. "That kid's put it back!"

"What a relief! That Widdy— trust him to do the unexpected," smiled Jenny. "I knew if he'd taken it, it wasn't for anything mean. Which one was it anyhow?"

"That one there, the one with the brown blaze on its head. See, the one with . . . Hey, wait a minute. There's something on her leg."

He opened the door and reached for the pigeon. She snuggled with familiar ease into his open palms. He detached a piece of paper that had been fastened to its right leg with a wire from a plastic bread wrapper. Releasing the pigeon, he unfolded sticky layers of a note and squinted to make out its hieroglyphics. "Dere Mister Renalds," it began.

"Here," said an amused Jenny, "this is my department. I've been translating for years." She took the wrinkled paper and read with little hesitation, even in the near-dark:

DERE MISTER RENALDS,

I BARROWED YORE PIGEN CAUSE I NEEDED IT FOR A EXPERMENT I HAD TO SEE IF IT COULD BALENCE ON A BALL THANKYOU
                                    YOURS TURLY,
                                    WIDDY TURNER
P.S. IT COULD
PSS MERRY CHISMAS

Jenny looked up from the note and into the nice eyes that still looked bewildered. She was glad of the half-light that might dis-

30

"A Partridge In A Pear Tree"

guise the unexpected emotion that filled her. "That Widdy," she managed, "he had to make my canary authentic."

Dan Reynolds put his hand on her arm. She could feel its firmness through her wool coat and interlining. He looked hard into her eyes that were now brimming with unashamed tears. He said softly, "You must be terrific—as a teacher. I mean."

Even Jenny's ears pounded with her pulse. The years of being almost happy melted in her glow. The agonizing Christmases of the past fell away in the magic of that moment of acceptance. So what if Roger Dixon had passed her up with his mistletoe in the seventh grade. And David Mace—what if he had left her standing by the fountain and sneaked off to the Christmas assembly with Judy? The echoes of failure ran distant now. "No, I'm not going to the Snow Ball" ... "Yes, Mother, I am chairman, but I haven't a date for the dance" ... "Yes, I'd love to be your bridesmaid" ... "No. I'm not the least bit superstitious about its being three times" ... "Oh, Corinne, a baby in December ... How wonderful!" ... "No, I'm not married yet" ... "Yes, Father, I'll be home for Christmas ... I know, with all the boys gone ..." Then, loud and clear ... "You must be terrific!"

It would never be the same. That elusive "partridge in a pear tree" ... the gift of the first day of Christmas—it was hers. Widdy had given it to her, and this man smiling down at her had confirmed the gift.

All the Christmases of the past blurred into one big, bright image—of a canary, yellow and cocky, singing a jubilant carol as he balanced, just right, on a glittered bell.

Jenny laughed and kept looking into the nice eyes. "A good teacher, Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Yes, I am." She soared with the "Thank-Goodness-It's-Friday" feeling that only a teacher could know, and added. "And I'm going home for Christmas."

Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, graduated from the University of Utah and has taught Freshman English there part time ever since, that is "between babies" and while writing for fun and serving on the General Board of the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association. She is married to Melvin E. Thayne, who this year was chosen "Realtor of the Year," and they have five daughters known as Mel's Belles, ages five to sixteen. They all love sports, especially tennis and skiing, and much of Emma Lou's writing has been the "occasional" kind concerning their activities. A winner of the Deseret News story contest, Emma Lou has published primarily in Church magazines. Recently, nearly all of her writing efforts are invested in MIA manuals, but she still snatches moments for writing—just because. She claims that isolating ideas is the most exciting exercise there is, even including tennis!

31
