[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 341 | Fiction | The Fourth Commandment Camilla | Woodbury Judd]
341 MAY 1965
there was that proverbial Sunday feast to prepare, a custom that the Larkin family had handed down from one generation to the next for many years. Ellen avoided Mary's eyes as she replied, "I really can't go with you today, sweetheart, now run along or you'll be late."' A feeling of guilt engulfed her as she watched the disappointed child until she had turned the corner. Hot tears scalded Ellen's eyes. She could not shut out the vision of that eager, pleading face. "I should have left it all and gone with her," she accused herself. ''Mother's Day comes only once a year and God's day but once out. Of seven." With nervous fingers she dabbed at her eyes with the hem of her starched gingham apron and pinned a stiff lock of premature gray hair into place behind her ear. "I declare, it does keep a body busy; if I did get up at six to get them all fed and off on time. I must be growing old," she said to herself. Henry LarkKIN had departed for Priesthood meeting a good half hour earlier, with an admonition to each child to hurry up and be on time. Punctuality, honesty, reliability, and order were a legacy that had also been handed down. He was faithful in his observance of the Sabbath and expected the same of his children. They must clean up in respect to the Lord and attend to all their Church duties. With Ellen it was different. She had, through the struggling years, made a willing slave of herself for Henry to whom she looked with a mixed feeling of awe, admiration, and love. Henry was a 342 husband to be proud of, intelligent, progressive, and active in Church and civic affairs. A good husband, warm and gentle deep down, but with little outward display of sentimentality. He was, in short, an English gentleman who firmly believed that, "A man's house is his castle," and his wife's whole ambition should be to make it a shining one. He had built her this home, patterned after the style of his homeland, with tall gabled roof and dormer windows. It was back in the lot. The long driveway was fenced in by well-kept hedges and grapevine arbors. The house was E]llen's pride and joy; no smudge or spot of dust escaped her eye. No outside interest was of more importance than her housework. Over the years it had become a habit she could not break, and Henry had long since ceased to urge her to change her ways. Alone with her thoughts, she sat down to eat her breakfast as she planned the morning's work. First, the two chickens must be stuffed and be put into the oven to bake, and the dried corn to steam in the double boiler. Then she would make the marble cake that Bennie had ordered and the cream-coconut pies which were always expected. The rest could wait until she had done up the morning work. INNoon found Mother Larkin's Sunday feast steaming on the kitchen range, when little Mary fluttered in, bubbling with excitement and thrust into her mother's hand a small booklet of verse. "Oh, Mama, why didn't you come?" she cried. "All the chil- I dren gave a pretty flower to their mothers, and you weren't there. Marjory London's mother looked so pretty. Her hair was marcelled and she wore a new silk dress and hat and everything." Mary's rehearsal ended in a sob, and Ellen clasped the unhappy child to her breast, whispering feeble words of comfort. But the child would not be comforted. "Marjory said that she had the prettiest mother of all, and I told her that my mother is the very prettiest in the whole world, if she just had her hair curled and was wearing pretty clothes." Henry Larkin looked up very quickly from his place at the head of the table, where he was impatiently waiting for the family to take their places. Ellen felt his critical scrutiny, while she hastened to pin the unruly lock of stiff gray hair behind her ear. "Your mother's wish to stay at home is her privilege, Mary, and, as to clothes, she would not wear them if she had them."' Ellen gripped the huge platter of golden browned chicken she was carrying while the color fled from her overheated face. Henry turned abruptly toward her, ""My dear wife, can't we have dinner on time?" ELLEN dashed into the kitchen to hide the hurt that was stabbing her heart and blinding her eyes, and as she served the meal, the words, "On time, on time, on time,' raced through her brain. For thirty years, she had lived by the clock, and now a sudden rebellion seethed within her.

Silently she moved from the hot kitchen stove to the long dining table, elegant in shining linen, her THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT best china and silverware for this special day; until the whole sumptuous banquet, from tomato bouillon to melting cream pies, was spread before the smiling eyes of Henry Larkin. After the blessing had been said on the food, Ellen, too tired to eat, made her way to her room where she sank into the little rocker beside her work table. Adjusting her glasses, she picked up the worn family Bible and turned its pages to the Ten Commandments. Running her finger down the list until she came to the fourth, she read: Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. Mother Larkin read it over and over again: "Thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates."' Surely she was not reading right. She cleaned her tear-blurred bifocals and read it again. Yes, she was right, there was no mention made of "Thy wife.' All were specifically mentioned except her. The punishment of Mother Eve, no doubt, for disobedience in partaking of the forbidden fruit. Ellen closed the book and put it back in its place. She felt beaten, cheated somehow, for down deep in her rebellious heart she 


 had hoped to find encouragement to ease up on the Sunday job. Unless, the thought struck her, she could be counted as "thy maidservant," for had she not been a servant in this house, caring for their needs, coming at their beck and call? Henry and her sons, all six of them, had accepted her servitude as they had accepted the rising and setting of the sun. Had not Bennie ordered the marble cake, and hadn't they all rushed off without bringing her a stick of wood or a bucket of coal and Mother Larkin came to herself with a start. Why, what kind of husbands would they make? Was she herself rearing six sons to be inconsiderate, to bring hardship upon the wives that they would someday marry? What a blind, miserable failure she had been, after all, and Ellen broke into sobs—sobs that shook and awakened her soul. Fumbling in her apron pocket for her handkerchief, her fingers touched the booklet of Mother Poems, and there on the front page were the words: Dear Mother, We cordially invite you to attend our Mother's Day program this evening at 6: P. M. To be given in the ward chapel by the members of the Aaronic Priesthood. Sincerely your servants, Ward Bishopric A sudden warmth crept into Ellen's heart. Somehow the word, "servant," didn't have a _ bad connotation at all. The Aaronic Priesthood—why, that took in two of her boys. Strange they had not mentioned it. But then, she reflected, she had not had 344 time to enter into their activities. She had been too busy and too absorbed in keeping the windows of Henry's castle shining to listen to their chatter. But she would go to their program. She would show them that she loved them and appreciated their efforts and their concern. She took down her old pongee dress from its hanger. She hadn't worn it since George had graduated from Junior High. It was a bit old-fashioned, but would do with a good pressing. The pink satin housecoat hanging beside it, which they had all given her a year ago, along with the bedroom slippers to match, were still unworn. She had found no time to relax in a delicate, pink robe. Those things were for pampered women of leisure. And then she saw it— the long box, tied up with bright blue ribbon lying on the bed and the card which read—"To Mother, with all our love." Ellen almost fainted. Then she dropped down on the bed beside the box and wept over its contents. Father was justly right, "She wouldn't wear them if she had them." She was to blame, after all. They had grown used to her excuses for staying home. Self-accusations welled up inside her as she solemnly resolved to change her ways. MioorHer Larkin tingled with a strange excitement as she stood before her mirror. The stiff unmanageable locks lay in soft curls around her temples. Her eyes, blue as the new dress that Henry had bought her, were bright with expectancy as she adjusted her new hat at a smart angle, pulled on the white gloves and tucked the lace handkerchief into her shiny new handbag. The chapel was nearly filled when, with little Mary joyfully holding her hand, she slid silently into a back seat. The stand was beautifully decorated and seats of honor were arranged under a banner inscribed, "Our Mothers." Young men were escorting their mothers to the seats of honor. The seats were almost filled now, and a young man was standing behind the pulpit. She couldn't see his face clearly for a vase of flowers, but he resembled her Paul. Ellen's heart beat fast, and she felt smothery. Of course she didn't count, it was for those who did count, it was for those who went to church regularly, the faithful ones. The young man was still standing there staring into the audience. Was it stage fright or was he looking for someone? Suddenly he stepped forward. It was Paul, her Paul so tall and handsome. He was smiling and coming straight toward her. "Oh, Mother, I'm glad," he whispered and proudly led her to a seat of honor. THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT Ellen felt like a queen as she listened to the eulogies of love and devotion, praise and admiration bestowed upon the mothers of men. Tributes to their careworn hands, their understanding and forgiving hearts; their courage and love that led them into the valley of the shadows; all their faith and suffering that triumphed over death. She forgot her weaknesses in the fragrance of the yellow carnation pinned on her breast, and the words of the bishop, "I am very pleased that Mother's Day comes on the Sabbath. The Sabbath is made for our spiritual uplifting. Let our bodies rest, that we may keep the laws of the God of nature, for he organized our bodies and he knows what they can endure. I think God made the Sabbath Day for tired mothers." Mother Larkin heard no more. Her eyes sought and met Henry's where he sat on the third row. Again she saw the old ardor of pride and tenderness in his eyes as he smiled at her. Then suddenly, the floodgates of her soul gave way and tears of happiness fell unheeded on her idle hands.