[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 386 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
wearing an attractive Christmas corsage, sang 'their hearts out' as each thrilling number was presented.

[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

One of the highlights of the evening was the rendition of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' A special guest, Sister Hilda Erickson, Utah's only remaining original pioneer, sat cheerfully in her place of honor, an old rocking chair, as the group sang in her honor. At the close of the number she responded very graciously, much to the delight of the © audience. Talented guest soloists presented vocal and instrumental numbers that were well received. ' "Christmas music greeted the crowd as they neared the chapel. In the foyer - was a beautifully lighted nativity scene that brought to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. At the close of the concert, refreshments were served on three long serving tables which were artistically decorated in keeping with the yuletide atmosphere. Delicious punch and homemade cookies were enjoyed by all. 'The sixty Singing Mothers met faithfully every Thursday morning at 9:30 for many weeks to practice for the entertainment for the stake building fund. Plans for the musical were carefully and prayerfully worked out by President Stewart and her Counselors Ethel Weight and Fern Gillette, and members of the board."' 386 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Seascape eee North Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''A World of Peace and Love'"' November 1964 Second from the right on the front row: Shirlene Hardy, conductor; at the right on the front row: Helen Williams, accompanist. Mary Lou K. Nielsen, President, North Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the concert was 'A World of Peace and Love.' A lovely night of music was enjoyed by all, with each ward participating in two numbers, and the stake group rendering the finale. Special variety numbers were also given between the musical selections." Dm OMY dichnte sl tAONE ern odes FO. - - * ba Mrs South Carolina West Stake Relief Society Officers and Members Assembled at Leadership Meeting and Luncheon, September 12, 1964 Seated, front row, left to right: Clara Haner, social science class leader; Beulah Belue, visiting teacher message leader; Vivian Black, Magazine representative; Christine Ginn, Second Counselor; Helen Shaw, President; Grace Larson, First Counselor; Gladys Burdett, work meeting leader; Callie Jarrell, chorister; standing at the left in the back row: Elder Edgar K. Puckett, High Council representative. Sister Shaw reports: ''Our stake was two years old in February. The picture was taken the day we had our leadership meeting in the morning, and then assembled for a covered-dish lunch. Following the lunch, we had craft demonstrations given by each of our eight wards, and then a fashion show in which several of the sisters modeled clothes they had made, and children modeled clothing which their mothers had made. Sister Ginn and Sister Burdett planned the craft program and fashion show. The event was very successful, and the sisters are anxious to have it repeated. We have had several letters saying how interesting the program was, and how much they all enjoyed it." 


 Manchester Stake (England) Music Display at Friendship Social December 5, 1964 Maureen Hoyle, President, Manchester Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Members of the committee were: First Counselor Irene Bates; Second Counselor Doreen Preston; Grace Steward; Lee Thornton; Joyce Roberts; Sylvia Walker. The social had two phases—talks and music in the chapel and an exhibition in the cultural hall. The talks were written by Mary Boswell, the chorister, and the music was by the Singing Mothers. "The photograph shows the much admired music display. The other activities—work, literature, social science, and theology were represented by similar displays. There was also a visiting teacher tableau. The occasion was entirely successful, and we were greatly uplifted by the obvious delight of our guests. About thirty nonmembers were present. On the following Monday evening we repeated our program before about one hundred Church members and friends. The program was described by stake Priesthood officials as being 'worthy of the beautiful building in which it was presented and destined to inspire higher standards in Church activity throughout the stake.' "' Philadelphia Stake, Salisbury (Maryland) Branch Bazaar, October 10, 1964 In front of a ''downtown"' bank, left to right: LaVern Rutter, President; Anna A. Lambert, Secretary-Treasurer; Thelma K. Hastings, First Counselor. Fern L. Hatch, President, Philadelphia Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The year 1964 will be remembered by the sisters in Salisbury, Maryland, for a good many years to come, and the successful bazaar will be a guide to follow. The bazaar was held in downtown Salisbury and the net proceeds totaled nearly $475. All varieties of beautifully made articles were sold, from homemade fudge and jams to children's clothing and quilts. The bazaar was not only a success financially, but was a great missionary tool also in introducing the talents of the members of the Relief Society to the community. The total membership of the Salisbury Branch is only twenty, but devotion to the gospel is the rule and not the exception in the Salisbury Relief Society."' Greensboro Stake (North Carolina) Relief Society Bazaar, November 28, 1964 Left to right, standing in the Winston-Salem Ward booth: Meris Gormley, First Counselor; Betty Marion, President; Janice Teddar, visiting teacher. Jessie Tyler Roberts, President, Greensboro Stake Relief Society, reports: "This booth from the Winston-Salem Ward is representative of the eleven booths and displays which made our first stake bazaar a successful event and the highlight of the year for the sisters of Greensboro Stake. "The cultural hall of the new Greensboro stake house had beautifully decorated booths arranged around the hall. The handwork was varied and outstanding, consisting of smocked pillows, pixie dolls, children's clothing, aprons, quilts, pillowcases, hand-knit and crocheted slippers and sweaters, mounted pictures and wall plaques, baked and canned products, and a variety of Christmas ideas and arrangements. "'For publicity, outstanding articles were displayed on a television program by Sister Roberts and Sister Virginia Harper, ward president. Attractive posters were distributed throughout the stores by the publicity committee. "We feel that the sisters derived more than just a financial increase by participating in a stake bazaar. A desire to improve their talents was instilled in the sisters, a choice selection of new ideas gained, enthusiasm built in the hearts of the sisters to go forward, and a warm spirit of cooperation and teamwork unequaled." 388 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 


 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Oakland Fourth Ward Christmas Bazaar November 14, 1964 Homemade bread featured at ''Santa's Sweet Shop,'' sold by Jennie Tate and Adeline Pratt. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: '*'A Sneak Preview of Christmas' was the theme of the bazaar. Decorations, booths, special events, gay Christmas aprons worn by officers and committee chairmen, jingle bells, and spicy smells brought back many memories of an oldfashioned Christmas. Hundreds of people attended as a result of excellent advertising in local and neighborhood newspapers. 'The evening was well planned by the ward work director Mary Bybee. These plans included something for every age group—balloons and fish pond for the very young; a 'teenage' booth decorated in the gayest of Christmas colors offered ping-pong, darts, checkers, and soda pop. Delicious food, including old-fashioned hot scones and jam, was served all day, and at ''Santa's Sweet Shop,'' homemade bread was featured, as well as cakes, Christmas cookies, and sandwiches and candy. 4 "This affair proved to be one of the most successful this Relief Society has ever attempted. It was most gratifying in that the whole ward seemed to participate and enter into the happy Christmas spirit. Many members of the stake attended this outstanding function.". 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD I Pi zy. Corvallis Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Homemakers' "Fair Wear'' October 24, 1964 Standing in front of a backdrop representing the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair, left to right: Lucile Hardman, First Counselor; Maxine Lee, Second Counselor; Sigrid Persons, President. Sister Persons reports: "The Relief Society members and one Priesthood member modeled their 'Fair Wear' at the first Homemakers' Fair held in the stake. Brother Leo Hall, who had made the sports coat he modeled, was a hit of the fashion show, together with his small daughter, who was wearing an outfit made by her mother. "The morning was spent in viewing demonstrations at eight different booths for fifteen-minute intervals. Represented were silk screen printing, driftwood arrangements, ribbon roses, flower arrangements, tincraft, gift wrapping, ceramics and pottery, and textile painting. "A display of items from The Relief Society Magazine was participated in by all the wards and, just for fun, there was a guessing contest and door prizes. A luncheon, featuring a three-tiered Fair cake, was served to about seventy-five members of the stake. We had wonderful cooperation and participation from all our wards, and all entered into the spirit of the Fair." 


 Bavarian Mission (Germany), Munich and Nurnberg Districts Present Historic Relief Society Pageant, November 1964 In picture frames, left to right: Ursula Roggermeier, as Emmeline B. Wells; Thamara Krause, as Clarissa S. Williams; Erna Schaefer as Louise Y. Robison; Lucia Seitz as Amy Brown Lyman; Edeltraud Bertele as Belle S. Spafford; Edeltraud Pollnau as Bathsheba Smith; Erna Schoepper as Zina D. H. Young; Josefa Wiedmann as Eliza R. Snow; Magdalena Gilch as Emma Hale Smith. Agnes S. Jacobs, Supervisor, Bavarian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The photo tells a most interesting story. I wonder if we realize just how far reaching The Relief Society Magazine can be. Sister Ingeborg Gildner, our Bavarian Mission Relief Society President, who cannot read English, was very intrigued with the picture entitled 'Hall of Fame' in the February 1964 issue of the Magazine. The story and picture were submitted by the Orem Seventh Ward, Orem Stake (Utah). Sister Gildner asked me if I would write and get a copy of the script. I did not know Sister Bertha J. Kirk, President of the Orem Stake Relief Society, but we did have a missionary from Orem, Elder David Alma Burton. I wrote his mother and asked her assistance in contacting Sister Kirk. Sister Kirk was most gracious and sent the full script. "'Then followed the arduous task of translating. We desired to use the pageant for the Saturday night entertainment at quarterly conference. Because of the distance in travel, the mission has been divided into two districts, one in the Nurnberg area and one in the Munich area. That meant that two speaking casts must prepare, along with two separate choral groups of Singing Mothers. Our sisters entered into the project with a great deal of enthusiasm, making costumes, memorizing scripts, rehearsal, etc. They wanted to perform just as well as their sisters in Zion. We were all so proud of them the night of their performance. The speaking, the singing, the background music, the staging—all were lovely and well done. This was a real treat for the German people because so very little has been translated about the women of the Church. I have sent copies to each of the German-speaking missions and copies to the German Branch in Salt Lake City, Utah.