[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 349 | Fiction | Abide With Me | Lenora Hansen]
[ILLUSTRATION: Silhouette of a woman in dark clothing against a light background with birds and bare branches]

Abide With Me
Lenora Hansen

[ILLUSTRATION: Silhouette of a woman in dark clothing against a light background with birds and bare branches]

■All night the ticking of the cheap alarm clock had hammered Karen Arden with its endless metronome.

There had been a time when it seemed to beat the echo of her peace. That was when she lay close beside Jim in the darkness, with the room empty of any sound except the alarm clock's strident voice and Jim's soft breathing.

Now Jim Arden's bed was on a rocky, lonesome hill, where they had buried him, seven months ago, when the truck which he was driving had gone over Copper Bluff. Now the clock ticked on and on—part of Karen's yearning and her emptiness.

Karen wanted to go home. She wanted to take her two children and go back to her own town and her own people. She wanted to sit at her mother's table and bite her teeth into the crusty edge of bread, hot from her mother's oven, to feel the soft warm center on her palate and to smell the buttered saltiness.

She wanted to hear her father's voice again talking to the Lord in family prayer, telling him that this family wanted to serve him, if he would just forgive their weaknesses and keep on showing them the way to go.

But Karen could not go home. She couldn't even feed her children here. If only she could find some way....

She sighed and, turning back the covers, slid her long legs over the edge of the bed, sitting up.

349

MAY 1965

She felt with her feet for her slippers and reached for her robe, where it had slid from the foot of the bed onto the floor.

She checked to see if Susie was still covered. The three-year-old stirred a little, but slept on. She leaned across the railing of the crib and touched her baby, caressing the cowlick that swirled left, up from his forehead, exactly as his father's had done. He carried his father's name—Jim.

She sashed the robe tightly around and felt for a brush, using it on her short, dark hair without turning on a light. As she passed the hall closet, she reached in and drew out a blanket. In the other room she pushed back the curtains so that she could see into the night, draped the blanket across her shoulders and sat down in Jim's big chair, drawing her knees up close and wrapping the blanket around them.

She prepared to lay out, again, the problem before her.

KAREN Arden was twenty-seven. She was tall and slender, with a half-hesitant grace of motion. Her eyes were large. Her mouth had a soft look, with a little tilt up at the corners as though a smile were just about to come. Her teeth were even, her complexion clear. She had an easy and listening manner with people.

These were what Bob Evans was offering to pay her for—her good looks and her easy listening manner—to serve drinks at his club outside of town—to sit at the tables and listen to his special guests.

What did she do if the guests became importunate? What if the gingerate, that Bob promised

she would be served, no longer tasted strong enough?

The pay that he offered was good. She could hire a woman to take care of the children.

This was November. Jim had died in April. The hospital and the burial had taken their little insurance. She had gone home for two weeks after the funeral, to visit with her parents, to postpone being alone and to look for work. There was no work. Her father had asked her to stay on, but she had been quite firm. His heart was bad and he had sold most of the farm. They managed, he and her mother, but there wasn't room to support three more. So she had come back here, where she and Jim had lived last. She and the children had moved into a smaller place and the finance company had picked up the car.

She had taken a job in the Canyon Cafe and arranged with a Navajo girl to take care of the children. But the girl went back to the reservation, suddenly, and she had had to stop work.

She worked for one week in Anna's Dress Shop. When she cashed her pay check and paid the woman who did baby sitting she had $4.85 left.

She had inquired at the bank and at the local business offices. They had all been sorry, but they were all fully staffed. They had written down her name.

Karen had advertised for sewing. She had ironed clothes and she had tended children in her home. But the money would not stretch. They really did eat, of course, but the children's clothes had grown too small and Karen didn't know where to get more. Her own clothes were shabby.

350

ABIDE WITH ME

They all needed shoes. The rent was a few days later every month. A light bill and a water bill lay on her dresser, unpaid. A tight knot of desperation was growing in her stomach.

She had to find some better way—and quickly. Was Bob Evans' offer the answer?

KAREN sat, pondering and troubled, until the sky began to grow light. Finally she stood up, folded the blanket and then wrapped it around her like a shawl, and, going to the front door, stepped out to see if the fresh day held any promise.

She did not notice, as she usually did, where the screen had pulled loose from the door. she didn't see the broken adobe fence, nor the pile of tumbleweeds against the vacant house across the street. Her eyes looked on, beyond, where the trees stood, bare limbed, against a red-cloud sky. A wind blew, sharp against her face. A bird flew down across the fire clouds. She turned back into the house, a little healed.

It was the Sabbath Day. When Jim was with her, they used to feed the babies early and drive fifty miles over to Beecroft where there was a Mormon Sunday School. Afterward, they would eat hamburgers at the drive-in, and both the children would go to sleep on the way home. Now Sunday was spent without any Church service.

As Karen dressed Susie and the baby in their play clothes, she thought of Sunday morning when she was a child.

When she was eight, she had had a lavender check dress with a white organdy collar. She remembered the dress as part of a tingling clean and shiny feeling. Outside the sun was warm; inside the organ played. Her father sat up on the stand, and when she caught his eye, he smiled at her.

What would happen if she called up the branch president in Beecroft, and said, "President Rogers, I'm not a member of your branch, but I belong to the Church and I need help!"

What would happen if she called Bob Evans and said, "I've been thinking about that job you offered me, at the club. Drive me over to Beecroft, to the Church tonight, and, maybe, after that I can give you my answer."

What if she called Alice Hunt. The Hunts were Mormons. They had no children, so instead of trying to make Sunday School, they drove to Beecroft for sacrament meeting in the evening. Several times, after Jim's death, they had asked Karen to go with them, but the babies were awfully little to be out so late. She had declined. But now she could call Alice!

As they got out of the Hunt car in Beecroft that evening, the sky was clouded over and the wind whipped up a blinding dust. The wind tore at Karen's dress and at the baby's blanket. Dust filled her eyes and its taste was in her mouth. Susie clung to her mother's skirts and cried.

Just before they reached the chapel door the first great drops of rain came down, gathering the dust as they descended, and spattering it in round mud splats on Karen's shoulders and Susie's dress.

Tears came to Karen's eyes. Even the rain came differently

351

MAY 1965

here! She remembered how rain came at home—clean summer rain. You could see it approaching from the east, like a misty curtain, foot by foot across green fields. Now, in November, there would be snow.

She stopped a moment in the hall to wipe the tears from Susie's face with her handkerchief and kept one hand free to guide the little girl.

The meeting had already commenced. The Hunts and the Ardens walked in quietly and sat down at the back.

President Rogers wasn't there. The man they called "President Harmon" was a stranger to Karen.

The baby slept. Susie put her feet up on the bench and down again. She turned around to chatter at the usher, standing by the door. She dropped her mother's handkerchief on the floor and squeaked across the bench as she slid off to pick it up. But the ride and the crying had left her tired and she soon leaned over on Karen and closed her eyes.

As Karen took the sacrament her heart cried, "Why? Oh, Father, why?"

Again she longed to be home where she could meet in worship every Sunday. Then her thoughts turned in upon herself and the meeting began floating past her. It was when the choir began the closing hymn that the words suddenly spoke in her thoughts:

"Abide with me, 'tis eventide, and lone will be the night, if I cannot commune with Thee and find, in Thee, my light . . . ."

Tears filled Karen's eyes and spilled down her cheeks and onto her dress.

"Father," she prayed, closing her eyes. "Father, let me go home!" Then she modified her prayer. "Or at least, please, Father, let me find work to take care of my children."

A peace came over her, and the song seemed sweet with comfort as she prayed with the singers:

"Oh, Savior, stay this night with me. Behold, 'tis eventide!"

SHE asked the Hunts to stop at a pay telephone before they reached her home—she had an urgent call to make. In the booth, she dropped her dime into the slot, dialed the club and asked for Mr. Evans. She thanked him for his offer, but she said she couldn't take the job. She did need the money, but the teachings of her Church were strong against those things. No, she didn't know what she would do. She must trust that something would turn up.

That night as she knelt by her bed she told the Father, again, that he knew how much she longed to go home, but that all things were in his hands. Please, would he strengthen her faith and help her to find work.

Monday and Tuesday nothing happened, and she could think of nothing to do to help. Wednesday morning, as soon as her housework was done, she borrowed from the food money to hire a baby sitter and went out to make the rounds of the town businesses again—the bank, law offices, two little mills, the courthouse. Everywhere she met with the same answer. There were no vacancies. If something should turn up, they would get in touch with her.

Finally she turned, weary, to-

352
