THE REVELATION We look upon our neighbor in his grief, And wonder how he bears the bitter pain. In our weak way, we try to give relief;: We try to help and comfort, but in vain. We see him lay the dear ones in the dust, And bravely struggle on along life's way; We marvel at his loyalty and trust, And that he still can toil and pray. We pray with throbbing hearts and bated breath— "Oh! Spare me Lord such sacrifice, such pain! To see my loved ones lying cold in death, I could not bear—though they shall live again Yet, bowed beneath the Cross and left alone— When death takes all that makes life's living sweet, We feel God's hand clasped close within our own, And love and understanding is complete. —Hannah Deady Tomsik. Yp? Excursion of Salt Lake Temple Workers (To Huntsville, Ogden Stake) The cordial invitation issued by President Thomas E. McKay of Ogden stake for temple workers of the Salt Lake Temple, to take an excursion as the guests of Ogden City, on August 12, 1921, was as cordially accepted by President George F. Richards and his associate authorities of the temple. It was no light undertaking to transport three to four hundred people from Salt Lake City by auto to Ogden City then on to the Hermitage, ir Ogden canyon, for breakfast, passing from there through the rest of the beautiful canyon up to Huntsville; but President George F. Richards and his counselors, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, together with the chief recorder of the Temple, Bishop Joseph Christensen, were quite equal to the occasion. Each temple worker received a card of invitation which was extended also to the companion of each temple worker, The card informed them to be at the east temple gate at six o'clock ready for the six-thirty start from the city. President Heber J. Grant together with President Seymour B. Young, were the honored guests of the occasion, President - Penrose being in California and President Ivins in Deseret. The day was perfect in its glorious sunshine and the ride was a rare treat to all in the early morning crispness of the canyon breezes, while some of the dear workers enjoyed the rarest treat in the world to them in the long auto ride. President Grant led out exactly at six thirty. Each auto contained a goodly company of merry hearted voyagers intent upon receiving to the fullest extent the promised pleasures of the day. In President Grant's own automobile was a group of his congenial friends; Mrs. Agusta W. Grant, his wife, Mrs. Libby Snow Ivins, wife of President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune who was here on a visit from her home in California, Mrs, Ann Dilworth Groesbeck and Mrs. Susa Young Gates, with Bishop Davis as chauffeur. Reaching Ogden the party were joined by President Thomas E, McKay and a number of Ogden's dignitaries, Mayor Francis being in the party. The ride to the Hermitage was clipped off at a swift pace for the road was practically unobstructed and paved all the way. The beautiful scenes which flashed past the vision 
 as quick turns were made around the shoulders of the mountains, hills were climbed, dug-ways passed over, OF the walls of impassable rock guarding the swift roaring stream below, all made the ride one of those wonderful experiences which thrill even the most hardened traveler with its grandeur and mountain charm. Under a shady bowery the sisters of Ogden had breakfast waiting. While the hungry guests regaled themselves, music was furnished by sweet singers and instrumentalists from Ogden. Breakfast over, the party soon took up the line of march, this time in groups © ten automobiles only, so that stops could be made at the Wells, where a most remarkable flood of water from mammoth artesian wells pours systematically into a concrete reservoir. Leaving the Wells the party soon reached Huntsville and found another gracious welcome, from the local authorities © this lovely village, in the fastnesses of the mountains. The meetinghouse was decorated and festooned with garlands of flowers and white bunting, which gave 4 festive air to the simple interior. On the stand sat the visiting Church and Temple authorities with the Ogden and Huntsville stake and local authorities. The program of the day was as follows: Speeches by, President Heber J. Grant, President Rudger Clawson, Elder George Albert Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, Elder Richard R. Lyman, Elder Seymour B. Young, Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley, Historian Andrew Jenson, President Thomas E. McKay, Bishop Joseph L. Peterson, and others. One of the performances of the day was the introduction by President McKay, of a fine sturdy young man and his wife, surrounded by a group of fine young children. President McKay, in introducing them said, that these parents had four children until one day last spring they awoke as the proud possessors of seven living children. The triplets, three sturdy boys, were hel up to view by the parents and Elder McKay as 2 direct evidence of the hygienic valite of life in that mountain retreat. The mayor of Ogden, in welcoming the guests, was eloquent, and timely. In the course of his remarks, he referred to the proposed temple in Ogden city and assured the Presidency © in the erection of so splendid an architectural embellishment to their already beautiful cityHe paid tribute to the Latter-day Saints and expressed his deepest appreciation at their friendship _and support.; Elder George Albert Smith, just returned from presiding over the British Mission, made an eloquent and somewhat lively talk concerning the good people of Huntsville and the pleasure EXCURSION OF TEMPLE WORKERS 591 of the brothers and sisters who had come from Salt Lake in accepting the hospitality so generously offered. President George F. Richards, in behalf of the temple workers themselves, expressed gratitude and pleasure at the beautiful entertainment offered to them on this occasion. Elder Joseph F. Smith followed in much the same train. Bishop Nibley was happy in his allusions to the splendid family which had been introduced to the crowd and suggested that as the father was a ward clerk one might expect even greater things from the bishop of the ward. Elder Lyman, President Seymour B. Young, Elder Andrew Jenson confined themselves, as did the other speakers, strictly to the five minute limit. President Rudger Clawson referred feelingly to the temple excursion undertaken twenty-five years ago to Brigham City, under the Presidency of Lorenzo Snow. He quoted from the remarks of President Wilford Woodruff on that occasion in which President Woodruff had given a wonderful prophecy and promise to the people. President Clawson's remarks were appropriate and were much appreciated by the temple workers present. The following are the remarks of President Woodruff, as referred to by President Clawson: When I have the vision of the night opened continually before my eyes, and can see the mighty judgments that are about to be poured out upon the world, when I know these things are true, and are at the door of Jew, and Gentile; while I know they are true and while I am holding this position before God and this world, can I withhold my voice from lifting up a warning to this people, and to the nations. Of the earth? I may never meet with this people again; I cannot tell how that may be. But while I live and see these things continually before me I shall raise my warning voice. Now, the question I wanted to ask you is this: We have millions of people on this earth, and over them all hangs a cloud of darkness almost entirely upon their shoulders. Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded and protected from these great calamities and judgments which are even now at our doors? I'll tell you. The priesthood of God who honor their Priesthood, and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who shall have this safety and protection. They are at our very doors: not even this people will escape them entirely. They will come down like the judgments of Sodom and Gomorrah. And none but the Priesthood will be able to escape, God has held the angels of destruction for many years, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. But I want to tell you now, that these angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and hover over the earth waiting to pour out the judgments. And from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we'll have protection, and shall pass through the afflictions in peace and safety. Read the Scriptures and the revelations. They will tell you about these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You 592 / RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | will live to see things, whether I do or not, I have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters, and I felt I must speak of them here. It's by the power of the gospel that we shall escape. President Heber J. Grant referred to the devotion of men and women who labored in the temple, and who built the founda-' tion of this Church during pioneer days. He expressed his gratitude for the beautiful singing rendered by Lucy Gates Bowen, grand-daughter of President Brigham Young. The unique record made by Latter-day Saints in every land, at home and abroad. President Grant spoke of the monument to Utah's first school teacher, Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond, which he had just visited in company with her niece and daughter. He referred in glowing terms to the Dilworth pioneer family, stating that wherever you find their descendants there are superior, refined people. He referred to William W. Riter as a careful student and. A great preacher of righteousness. He closed expressing pleasure to be with the Saints on that occasion. Seldom has the singing of Utah's nightingale, Lucy Gates, so thrilled her hearers as on that occasion; she sang "Though deepening trials," and then followed that with "O, ye mountains high." The program by local musicians was especially fine and the whole entertainment provided was worthy of the occasion. At the close of the program, luncheon was served on the meeting house lawns where stands the monument erected to the first school teacher, Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond, who died in this little town. Her daughter who unvailed the monument, and her niece Mrs. Anna Dilworth Groesbeck stood beside the monument while a picture was snapped of them for the Magazine. At the close of the program, the return to the city was made in the delightful cool of the evening. Long remembered will be this excursion as marking another mile-stone in the history of the Salt Lake Temple services.