EDITORIAL  Motto—Cherity Never Faitleth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - -. -: Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - -: - - - _Amy Brown Lyman - Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah 

 MOTIVES OR BASIS OF JUDGMENT It is not what we do or what we leave undone that saves or damns us, it is the motive which lies deep in our hidden souls and which prompts the act and the word, the silence and inaction. Old Yankees and Puritans knew this well as did and do all true Saints. But we let the days pass full of our acts and words most of them prompted by habit, by custom and by environment. Here and there a need arises to say or do something different?and we are caught quickly. Then comes out of hiding a motive which prompts us to say or do something which we have decided was foolish long ago or we refrain from some good act, actuated by an obscure motive which we do not trouble to examine. When children or men do things which you are inclined to criticize, try to discover the motive behind the act or word. Study the child, the friend or the public man, and discover, if you can, the source of the act. The results of the act may be bad, but if the motive was pure and good, who are you to rise up in judgment? Alas, we judge life, one another, and ourselves, by results, not by the motives. This would be right and just if we had clear, unselfish, perfect vision. Because results follow causes. Yet human agency, or human will pitted against each other, often cloud and change results: while pure motives may even justify 
 law-breaking, and may ameliorate sin. Motives qualify triumph and even will canker goodness and right actions. You can go to meeting and commit sin all the time you sit there, or you may stay away from meeting and be perfectly justified in doing so. God judges our motives, not always the results of our actions. We are in a hurry?anxious to get the children off to Sunday School, and in that hurry we may burn the roast, step on the cat's tail, pull the children's hair, or even set fire to the house. The results will be disastrous, and we must suffer the consequence of our extreme hurry. But no man nor angel will attribute evil to us because of the evil which came out of our good motives. On the other hand we may be determined to go to the temple for the day, or to Sunday School, or meeting, and discover that the baby is sick, or that the husband objects to our leaving home. "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.? The day comes and goes so swiftly that we have little time to study the motives for our many acts and words. Then choose the quiet twilight, the few wakeful moments on the pillow of the night, and study out the motives for our desires and ambitions. Do we break this law or that to please ourselves? Do we want riches and honor of men? Why? Do we resent the treatment accorded us here and there? Why? Do we plan excursions or parties, or dress-making, or preserving, and why? What is my motive? That is my problem; the results are with Providence. The answer to my problem spells blessing or condemnation to me. My Resolve Mrs. A. C. Vail How sad is this life in its many rough channels; How much of sorrow and pain; How often we think, when old age creeps upon us, "Could I but live over again," How different I'd be and how tender and loving, How prayerful I'd be every day, That when I grew old and was no longer useful My Savior would call me away. But now, as I ponder upon my past life, And think back on my many misdeeds, I feel I am unworthy to enter His Kingdom, Or walk in the Paradise meads; I feel that to die would but cause much confusion, And I'd best live along for a while That I may do better; when I go to heaven, I may be received with a smile. Guide Lessons for December LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony ( First Week in December ) Life after Death The gospel of Jesus Christ is full of hope for all who leave this sphere of existence and, with one exception, go into other spheres. The revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith supplement and classify the revelations in the Bible concerning life after death, in a marvelous manner. The Christian world have only a vague conception of the other world, gleaned from the sayings of the Savior and his disciples, and the symbolic pictures of John the Revelator, on the Isle of Patmos. To begin with, the Christian world does not believe in pre-existence as we do. They believe that we did not have a conscious existence before we came here. To them vast reservoirs of spirit material exist somewhere, but is unorganized, undeveloped. Our elders preach pre-existence as a fundamental truth. Pre-existence is clearly shown in the Bible, if we only have the key of revelation. Moses spoke of "The God of the spirits of all flesh," in Numbers 16:22; 27:16. The Lord asked Job, "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?" 38:3-7. The Lord tells Jeremiah, 1:5. "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee." The Savior says (John 16:27) that "T came out from God." Again (16:28, 30) he says, I came forth from the Father.' Paul argues, (Hebrews 12:9) "Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live?" The Preacher tells us (Eccles. 12:7) that "the spirit shall return unto God who gave it." But the Christian world spiritualizes these sayings. They do not believe in the personality of God himself, and refer to Christ as God made incarnate. It is true that the revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith have percolated all through the Christian faiths, and they have been greatly changed and modified from their original statements and beliefs.