The Key By Lilith Shell
Francesca was going on eight when her mother went away. On a winter night while her husband, Angelo, was at his lodge and while her children were in their beds asleep, Maria Salvatore slipped away with Joe Macchia, the boarder. To say the least, this flight of his wife left Angelo's domestic menage in a critical state, considering the fact that Francesca was the eldest of his six children and that Cherubina, the baby, was only three weeks old. In between these two, ranging from two to seven, were Antonio, Nicky, Carmela, and Domineco. No wonder, then, when Angelo came home from lodge that night and found his bed empty?that is empty of his wife, for Cherubina, the baby and Carmela were there?that he flew into a rage and dragged Francesca from her couch, occupied also by Antonio and Domineco, and gave her a sound beating, this process punctuated profusely with oaths such as only an Italian father, pretty well heated with Italy's wine and bereft of the wife of his bosom, can use to advantage.
"Did not you to see her go?" he demanded, but Francesca could not answer him for crying; and he could not have heard her if she had, for the crying of the other children awakened by the turmoil.
"An' why not?" he demanded with further blows. "An' why not you to see your own mother go from her home? Say? An' with that Joe she has gone!" This last he uttered with a groan of extreme bitterness, flinging Francesca from him as if she had been guilty of the whole miserable affair and he feared contamination by further contact with her.
So Francesca crept into bed, pulling the covers over herself and her two brothers, reaching an occasional exploratory hand across them to be sure that they were not exposed to the cold. She lay awake a long time, long after the two little boys were soundly sleeping, long after she heard her father's snores coming, not from his own bed where he had been wont to sleep with his wife and at least two of the children, but from Joe Macchia's bed. (For why not enjoy the luxury of a private bed when it stood there empty?)
Then out from her bed Francesca crept and rubbed the aching welts on her arms and legs, on her face and neck and back where the heavy blows had fallen. With the still luke-warm water from the kettle she bathed the more obvious marks upon her face and arms. Tomorrow she must go to school; and the teachers, they ask you such questions?all about your underwear and look to see if you have any on, and about your stockings; and they look to see if your ears are washed and especially if you have


any blue marks on you like these were sure to be by morning. They ask you so embarrassing questions; and if you cannot right away think of something to tell them besides the truth, then they whisper something to the school nurse and lift up their eye-brows toward you and then she asks you, oh such sharp questions, and puts her hands on your shoulders and looks you square in the eye, and sometimes even she goes straight home with you and asks your mother or your father things, and then you get beaten again. So, Francesca, shivering in the bleakness of the room, laved and rubbed the tell-tale marks.
With the coming of the morning came also the imperative necessity of adjustment of some kind. Angelo's wrath, unabated after his night of heavy sleep, still fell heavily upon Francesca.
"You go take the baby to gran'," he ordered Francesca. "An' you tell to her I see her tonight myself, an' so you go an' you be back quick an' I talk to you some more."
In an unbelievable short time Francesca was back ready for her father's further "talk."
"Now you got to keep the house," he said to her. "You got to cook the dinner an' you got to keep the key."
With this brief disposal of his responsibility and with these meager instructions as to the business of managing a household, Angelo was off to his day's work?a day of well-ordered work with a definite number of hours in which to accomplish it, and under the direction of an efficient foreman.
Left to her task, Francesca dashed through with the dishes and set about getting Antonio and Nicky ready for school. She scrubbed them sketchily in spite of their vigorous protests, and hurried them away. She ran a broken comb over the surface of her own tangled hair and was in the act of rushing out and making a run for school herself, when the question of Carmela and Domineco presented itself. And there was the key. What should she do with the children? Lock them in?or out? Frantically she fingered the key and watched the hands of the clock flying toward nine while she tried to settle the thing. She could not lock them out; it was too cold and Carmela's shoes, they were all so broken. There was only one thing she could do?lock them in. Seizing Carmela by both arms and gazing through the smudgy little face down into the very soul of her, Francesca laid upon her four-year-old shoulders the responsibility of looking after Domineco.
"I give you a sucker, maybe, if you mind me," Francesca promised, then snatching her own dingy sweater she went out, closing the door behind her and turning the key in the lock.
She reached school just in time to receive a cutting reprimand from the teacher for tardiness. All forenoon she fingered the key in her sweater pocket, her
THE KEY 275
forced attention to her lessons being ever crowded in upon by the consciousness of the two little ones at home. Mixed with her four-times-four was the fear that Domineco might swallow a piece of coal, and she sang her "do re fa sol la ti do" to the dreadful tune of what if the house should catch on fire.
At noon recess she dashed down the street and into the alley where they lived. Antonio and Nicky were there before her and were pounding vociferously upon the door, while from within they were being answered by two lusty voices raised in doleful crying. This was a relief. Carmela and Domineco were at least not dead. With unpracticed fingers Francesca inserted the key and after a nervous twist or two the clamorous ones from the outside were mixing with the clamorous ones inside, the two couple making an indisputable crowd.
So helter-skelter, rush and hurry, slam-bang, sped the days for Francesca. Angelo Salvatore, having turned over his responsibilities to her, went on his way merrily enough, only some outstanding family disturbance causing him to come down upon the offender like a thousand of bricks. But after a little Francesca managed so to control the noisy brood that few outbreaks occurred in his presence.
"You wanna git hit hard, so?" she would say to Antonio and Nicky, giving a dramatic illustration of the situation indicated by the sharp so, "an' you wanna have teacher always asking you all time about how? An' you wanna have the nurse all time come here, huh?"
This argument was efficacious always, for the boys knew and dreaded the weight of their father's hand; and they, too, had squirmed under the pointed and personal questions of the teachers and the nurse.
Angelo carried home provisions?spaghetti and onions and rye bread, cabbage and white potatoes, and olive oil and coffee. Once a week he did this, on pay day, and Francesca made it do, although her own little bones almost rattled in her skin, and the noon lunch for the five of them was seldom anything more than cold coffee and a few scraps of stale bread. But with it all there was no burden like the key. The lock was none of the best and time after time Frankesca managed to get the key hopelessly hung in it. Her frantic haste in trying to extricate it only made it worse and there were times when she was compelled to go to school and worry all through the morning because she must needs leave the key hanging in the lock. Usually she could get Rigolo Calamarino, a big boy of twelve, to get it loose for her when school was out; but in the meantime there were Carmela and Domineco either locked in or, the key having become fast before the bolt was sprung, left free to run in and out as they pleased over a none too friendly neighborhood. 
 Then one day she lost the. Key. It had been in her sweater pocket; she put it there as she ran to school; she remembered that very well. But when she came home at noon it was gone, And although she tracked back over the route and although Antonio and Nicky went over the ground inch by inch, the key was nowhere to be found. What to do? Francesca wrung her hands in despair. There were Carmela and Domineco howling inside and the two boys at her elbow making futile suggestions while time was flying. At last, when nothing she could contrive availed her anything and the tears were washing Francesca's thin little cheeks, Rigolo came again to her rescue with a rusty skeleton key which served as well as the much lamented lost one. Angelo knew nothing of these tragedies. Zealously Francesca charged the younger children to silence, not only about the key but about all their affairs, good, bad, and indifferent. What she could she herself dealt with; what she could not, she left on the lap of the gods. For how was she to know, or how were the others, what would make their father angry or what would please him? So Angelo worked at his job, went to his lodge one night a week, brought home provisions, and Francesca worried through. The school nurse kept the family upon her list and time and again went to the home?now certainly no longer having any claim to that magic word?to the hovel, rather. While Angelo's understanding of family needs reached far enough to cover the weekly basket of provisions, it did not reach to any such thing as the renewal of household supplies and clothing, and these were provided only at the insistent demands and sometimes even threats of that dreaded personage, the nurse. "Dam' fool woman," was Angelo's sullen comment upon her when she had gone after compelling him to exercise some interest in his brood. But always and always there was the key, a perfect nightmare to the frantic and harassed child mother. It was so hard to remember where one put it. Since the time the original one had been lost and Rigolo had so kindly allowed her to keep the skeleton key, she had tied a white string to it?a long white string which soon became greasy and black; but it did help to locate the elusive key. This one, too, would often get fast in the lock, and sometimes she would even forget to lock the door?forget it entirely in the hurly-burly of getting herself and the others off to school. One black day when she had forgotten, had left the miserable key lying brazenly on the kitchen table, Angelo came home in mid afternoon, a contingency never once taken into consideration by Francesca. It had never occurred before in her memory. But this day something broke at the shop and he was off, the very day of all days when she had so flagrantly forgotten to lock the THE KEY 277 door. When Angelo tried the knob and the door responded hot anger welled up within him and the sight of the key there on the table increased his wrath. "She catch-a eet," he muttered. "I geev-a eet to her." And he did. Poor Francesca, having remembered her delinquency too late, rushed home in a perfect turmoil of distraction the moment she was free, only to find her father standing there with the accusing key in his hand. Terribly he talked to her and so loud; and most frightfully he knocked her about with his hard hands and with the rung from a broken old chair. Francesca bit her lip and closed her eyes and clenched her bony little fists in her determination not to cry out, but at last her pain and fright became so intense that she could no longer refrain and from her throbbing throat she sent up piercing shriek after shriek. Too bad! Too bad! For Mary Patcholoff next door rushed in, and partly because she had no love for the grouchy Angelo and partly because she had a great pity in her heart for Francesca, but mainly because she reveled in the spectacular, she called the police; and Angelo spent the night in the lock up and lost another whole day's work on the morrow before he could get the matter explained. "All," Francesca wept bitterly and self-accusingly, "all because of forgetting that old key?that old, old, hateful key." She needed the beating, she granted, only maybe not so much, and not such loud scolding. And how much she ought not to have cried out that way. But truly, she defended herself, she had become afraid he was never going to stop at all, and then who would look after the children and who would keep the key? One day when Francesca came home from school there stood the door wide open. Frantically she dived for the key. There it was in her pocket. But this fact to the contrary notwithstanding, there was the door open. As Francesca drew nearer it was plain to be seen that there was someone moving about inside the kitchen; and it was not her father. Francesca stopped. How was this? Had someone found the lost key and opened the door? Her eyes narrowed ominously. She would deal with this thing, whatever it was. But what was it? Cautiously she edged up to the door. Inside there was certainly an astounding sight. There was a woman?a nice youngish looking woman with a pink dress and a cap, a white cap with lace all around it and a little bunch of pink ribbon on one side of it. The woman was standing at the stove stirring something, and upon the table was a pie. Furthermore the kitchen floor was scrubbed and there were\clean papers spread all about. All this (Francesca saw before the woman saw her. But this was her house and boldly she stepped inside. At the sound made by her entrance the woman turned. 
 "Oh?o-h-h?" the woman gasped and something inside her sent a blush over her dark cheeks?a blush almost as pink as her dress. 'Why, my Francesca," she cried. But Francesca only stood still and stared. The nice looking woman laid down the spoon with which she had been stirring at the stove, and Francesca became conscious of a most delectable odor?the heavenly smell of tomatoes and onions and?what else? Francesca had not time to figure it out, for the woman came over to her and laying her hands upon the girl's sharp little shoulders, turned her about. "Kiss-a your mother, little one," she crooned, and there was a catch in her voice and a mist in her eyes. "Have you come back here to live?" Francesca demanded. "Yes-a, you see, my little one," the woman smiled brightly. "All time?" Francesca was cautious and incredulous. "Sure-a," laughed the woman. ''You're hair need-a de cut," she added, "and' where-a de boys an' Carmela an' de bab'?" "The boys, they come-a soon," answered Francesca, "an' go get-ta de hab' an' I bring-a, too, Carmela." As Francesca turned to rush over to gran's, the weight of the key in her pocket struck against her leg, calling her attention to it. "Here-a," she said, mater-of-factly unfastening the safety pin which held the greasy string of! The key, "you stay-a here, then you keep-a de key," and as the pink woman took it, something went out from Francesca?a great emptiness seemed to engulf: her, a feeling of freedom, of release so great that she could in no way comprehend it. A violent trembling shook her little frame from head to foot, and dropping into a chair she let her head fall upon the table and sob after sob wracked her. "For all-a," cried her mother, "what-ta you cry for? Cause I come-a home? You sorr-a I come-a back-a home, little one?" "No?no," sobbed Francesca. "I'm-a glad. The key. I give-a to you de key." The next morning Francesca, more neatly dressed than the teacher had ever seen her, and with her coarse hair cut and smoothly combed, came into the school room full ten minutes before school time. "Why, Francesca,' you are." Slipping to the teacher's side, Francesca made lucid explanations. "Yes-a, ma'am, my mama, she come home. She cook-a de breakfas' and," running her brown hand pridefully over her black hair, "'she cut-a an' comb-a my hair, too. An'," here Francesca's thin shoulders lifted and she spread out her palms dramatically, "an' teacher, now I have not to lock-a de door and not nor more to keep-a de key. My mama, now She keep-a de key. And with a care-free smile Francesca sought her seat. ' said the teacher, "how bright and early