Intellectual Responsibility of Mothers By Heloise Day Merkley
Latter-day Saints are taught to consider this life in its relation to a pre-existent state as well as to the future. So, in discussing the problem of the mother's intellectual responsibility, we may say that it begins before she ever becomes a mother, though few of us realize this so early in life. The modern psychologist follows the example of the Latter-day Saint in tracing things backward, though he does it in this life only, and traces intellectual and physical traits to direct ancestors only, instead of into the spiritual life. The Eugenist lays great stress upon the heredity of the child. He tells the girl that the surest way in which she can help her children intellectually is by choosing for them a father with the proper intellectual equipment and from an intellectual family.
CHOICE OF A MATE
Eugenist, Psychologist, and Preacher all agree that it is important to choose the best possible mate if you would fulfill your intellectual responsibility to your children as their mother. But how many girls know anything about eugenics and heredity? Or, if they know, how many think seriously of such things when they decide to marry? Moonlight often plays a more important part in the choice than does Eugenics. Psychology yields place to the music of the dance hall. And if the preacher says much, the girl in love only looks deeper into the eyes of her lover and loves him the more.
Psychologists agree that he who dares to break away from an old, established religion, supported by custom, by law, and by the habits of a lifetime?he who dares seek to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, is always intellectually a little above the mass of those who cling to the old superstition. The Huguenots of France, the Protestants of England, the Puritans, the Quakers, the Methodists?all those who in days gone by dared to think for themselves and to pray for themselves?these are they who have leavened the nations with the brilliance of true intelligence. These people are recognized by psychologists as the cream of the European world intellectually. And it is from these
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 267
that the Church of Jesus Christ draws its recruits; not from those who are content with what their fathers believed because their fathers believed it, and intellectually too lazy to test that belief with the light of their own reason; not always from the rich, not always from the educated; but always, with scarcely an exception, the Gospel of Jesus Christ appeals to those who are not afraid to think for themselves. It appeals to those who are of greater spirituality and stronger character; but just now we limit ourselves to the question of the intellect.
When our parents and grandparents accepted the Gospel, they demonstrated their intellectual independence. They were not afraid to think for themselves. Therefore, we can say with Nephi?"I being blessed with goodly parents," etc.