Gifts for Social Uplift
Nothing new under the sun; but the number of large gifts contributed for welfare work by wealthy persons living in the United States begins to look as though this old axiom might be challenged. The year 1927 has been designated the greatest gift year in history. Some of the gifts have been made by women and some have been made for the special benefit of women and children. All gifts for charity and for the combating of disease will be particularly helpful to women and children, for social workers are constantly discovering, in their case-work, families of women and children who are ill, and who are not supplied with what is necessary for normal living.
One of the outstanding gifts by a woman is that of "Mrs. Mary E. Emery, wife of the inventor and manufacturer of the emery wheel, who left $20,000,000, in the form of a foundation, for charitable and educational purposes. The will of Henry Buhl,


Pittsburgh capitalist, created a fund of $15,000,000 for charity, this being the largest single fund set aside during the year. Aside from the Buhl foundation, the largest single gift to charity is from Mrs. C. Sellew of New York, who gave $2,000,000. John Whalen of Brooklyn left $1,400,000 to the Roman Catholic Church, Diocese of New York, for use in its charitable work; and S. Friedman of New York left for Hebrew charity $1,000,000."
Indirectly all money devoted to the elimination of disease is likewise for charity, because poor health is one of the outstanding causes of poverty. Consequently, such gifts as that of "R. F. Cutting of New York who gave $250,000 for cancer research, the gift of J. Pierpont Morgan of $200,000 for research to discover the cause of sleeping sickness, and $2,000,000 by the Fraternal Order of Elks for fighting tuberculosis and aiding crippled children"?all these will help to eliminate poverty.
Women in colleges have had to depend largely on the munificence of liberal hearted persons to supply them with proper housing conditions on college campuses. A gift looking towards just this thing is that of $1,650,000 for residential halls at Cornell University. Cornell has one thousand women in attendance and she aims to place them on her beautiful campus under conditions that should make for the best development of modern women. This gift, from one who has asked that his or her name be withheld, certainly marks progress in the building of dormitories on the American college campus.
Semi-Centennial Celebration of the Organization of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
Color, music, poetry, and the charm of a well trained voice in the reading of the author's lines, all blended to make worthy the semi-centennial celebration of the