Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman German-Austrian Mission During the general conference of the missionaries, and the Dr. Karl G. Maeser 100th birthday anniversary held at Meissen and Dresden, Germany, January 14 to 19, luncheon was served each day under the supervision of Mrs. Rose Ellen B. Valentine, president of the Relief Societies of this mission, who was assisted by the following: Martha Scharschuck, Alma Hurst, Martha Breitfeld, Marie Wenzel, Magdalene Schaeckel, Marie Breifeld GERMAN-AUSTRIAN RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Mrs. Ella B. Valentine, President, is second from the left in the front row. And Gertrud Kranisch. The luncheons were served cafeteria style. On the first day 161 people were served in 8 minutes and 2 seconds with the following menu: 2 slices of whole-wheat buttered bread, 2 rolls, one pair of weinies, and an American Jonathan apple. On the second day 160 people were served in 7 minutes with 2 slices of whole-wheat bread, two buttered rolls, a "well groomed" raw carrot and a service of sweet chocolate. On the third day 
 163 people were served in 5 minutes and 20 seconds with a luncheon consisting of 2 slices of whole-wheat buttered bread with Swiss cheese, 2 rolls, a naval orange, and 3 pieces of honey candy. The average cost of the luncheons was 42 German pfennigs, or 10 cents each, and they were so much appreciated by those in whose behalf they were served that on the last day the Elders were anxious to give three "rahs" for the Relief Society. St. George Stake In the latter part of February, 1928, a very enjoyable social was held at the home of Counselor Hannah M. Mathis, in honor of Counselor Agries E. Winsor, whose failing health compelled resignation, and six retiring stake board members, namely, Emily C. Brooks, Mary Jarvis, Paralee A. Miles, Emmeline J. Cottam, Julia Graff, and Emma Squires. Nearly all of these women had served 20 years or more and President Jos. K. Nicholas gave them an honorable release with deep appreciation for their long and faithful service. At the party tokens of regard were presented, and expressions of love and appreciation were made. Each member contributed to the program an amusing experience, and an original poem was read by Mabel Jarvis, after which delicious refreshments were served. Shelley Stake Reorganized On February 5, 1928, the Shelley stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, who has served so well and faithfully as stake president for a number of years, was given an honorable release, together with the members of her board. Mrs. Cora Christensen, former secretary of the stake, was chosen as president, with the following assistants: Counselors, Mrs. Bessie Kelley and Mrs. Lula Bowles; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Kathryn E. Lawrence. On March 2, a social was given in honor of the retiring board by the new board and the ward officers combined. The 8 retiring board members were each presented with a very appropriate gift in appreciation of their labors, and an interesting program was rendered, after which refreshments were served. Mexican Mission The accompanying portrait is that of a Lamanite sister, Refugio (Cuca) Auriola. She is the daughter of an Indian chief, Victor Adame, of San Juan Del Mosquital, Zacatecas. The early history of her life would furnish material for a thrilling romance. However, she was led in a providential way to marry a man of education and refinement, professor of Spanish and English. By this union her splendid, natural faculties were developed, and she became a missionary for the Southern Methodist Church, being active and ardent in the missionary work of that church for 10 years among the Mexican people. Her husband, Carlos Montero, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 having died, she was living with her present husband in E] Paso, Texas, when she met the Latter-day Saint elders. She became an investigator and after 2 years of deliberation acknowledged the authority of the restored Priesthood and was baptized May 1, 1922, REFUGIO (CUCA) AURIOLA AND ANGELITA LOZANO by Elder Ralph A. Ward. From El Paso she has gone to Los Angeles, where she is assisting greatly the Elders who are working in the Mexican mission. She is possessed of a great earnestness and convincing power, and never tires of preaching the gospel and defending its truths under all circumstances. The, little girl is Angelita Lozano, whose mother died a faithful member of the Church. Northern States Mission A most illuminating comparative report has just been received from the Northern States mission, which includes the following Relief Society organizations, ten in all: Aurora, Cincinnati, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Indianapolis, Logan Square, Milwaukee, Peoria, Peru, University. The totals show?number of members 269; average attendance, 41%; meetings held, 365; paid for charity, $294.41; number of families helped, 65; percent taking Magazine, 52%; number of officers taking Magazine, 36; paid dues, 88%; days spent in temple work, 404; Books of Mormon distributed, 86; gospel conversations, 1,206. The average attendance and the average percent of members taking the Relief Society Magazine, are both especially high compared with the general 
 average of the whole Society. Five of the organizations paid 100% annual dues, which was very good. The number of days spent in temple work, or days provided for was unusually good? averaging a little more than one and one-eighth days for each Relief Society member in the whole mission. The women have also done noteworthy work in distributing the Book of Mormon and in gospel conversations. Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, who has been released as president of the Relief Societies of this mission, must take great pride in this excellent report. Teton Stake Teton stake made an excellent showing last year in the planting of trees, plants, and shrubs, as will be seen by the following report: Trees planted on public grounds, court house, 8 maples, 2 weeping willows; public square, 100 Norway maples; stake house, 7 silver maples, 15 golden willows; Driggs Tourist Park 12 silver maples; high school, 20 Norway maples. At residences and other places 629 shade and ornamental trees have been planted. Throughout the valley besides, 52 lilac bushes; 38 rose bushes; 122 gooseberry bushes; 70 currant bushes; 12 raspberry plats; 24 strawberry beds; 11 pie-plant beds; 2 asparagus beds (the latter an experiment); 168 vegetable gardens; 136 flower gardens; 15 new lawns and 2 replanted. Three wards reported that all families had planted vegetable and flower gardens, and 100% had started a goodly number of house plants. Pocatello Stake. (Charity Funds Increased) To encourage larger family contributions to the Relief Society, the Pocatello Stake last year held a very successful contest in which a prize was offered to the ward having the highest percent of families donating each month. The ward winning the award secured nearly 100%, every family except one, in the ward donating each month. This contest stimulated the work of the visiting teachers, and increased considerably the donations throughout the stake. In September, 1927, an excellent Teachers' Convention was held. There was a good attendance and representatives from out-lying districts. After a fine musical program the following subjects were ably treated: qualifications of a teacher to know the gospel, to love the gospel, and to live the gospel; teaching as a Relief Society activity, including the purpose, the proper method of teaching, the spirit of family visiting, and the attitude of the visiting teacher. A lively discussion followed. One of the most enjoyable events of the past year was the December. Banquet tendered. To the old folks by the stake board, assisted by the local presidents. All over 65 years of age were given ribbon badges designating their age. Over 125 were seated at three large tables, artistically decorated in Christmas colors. After an excellent program of toasts, music, stories, and readings, the pioneers rendered songs which were sung while they were crossing the plains, and an old-time NOTES FROM THE FIELD 283 orchestra furnished music for quadrilles and dances in vogue 50 years ago. Juarez Stake. (In Memoriam) The Juarez stake has sustained a great loss in the death of Mrs. Maggie Ivins Bentley, who departed this life January 14, 1928, at her home in Colonia Juarez. Her life of public service began in the Primary Association?first in the ward and then in the stake; but for the past two years, she has been associated with the Juarez Stake Board Relief Society, where her work, together with her superior wisdom, made her a valuable member. Mrs. Bentley was born March 31, 1868, in St. George, Utah, the daughter of Israel and Julia (Hill) Ivins, and sister of President A. W. Ivins. She was the wife of Joseph C. Bentley of the Juarez stake. She left her home in Southern Utah in her early married life, and with her husband and small family cast her lot with the. Early settlers in the "Mormon" colonies of Mexico. She has been an active worker in both ward and stake capacities, and has endeared herself to both old and young alike. She was a faithful wife, a devoted and wise mother, and an efficient home-maker. She was the