And when a Mormon girl goes to the temple and marries a good Mormon boy, there is not a great deal of doubt that she is giving her children a better intellectual heredity than she would be able to do in the world by choosing a mate from the same level in society.
MINDS ARE LIKE STEEL
It is just as important, of course, that the mother be intelligent as that the father be intelligent. But what brains she has, were given her by her parents, and are the best she can possibly acquire. If her mind is like tempered steel, hard to take an edge and firm to retain it, she is lucky; if it is poor metal, that she cannot help. But this much she can do: the best of steel if it is not sharpened may be as dull as the poorest; and the poorest, if properly sharpened, is much better than it would be if left dull. So, whatever her grade of intellect, she can, by self-development, make the most of it.
The modern psychologist says positively that the powers of the human mind are so great, the limit of perfection in intellectual attainment is so far away, that in this life it is probable that no human mind has ever attained its utmost progress. Cheer up! You may not think yourself brilliant; but remember it will take you several eternities to reach the limit of your intellectual development. If you strive with all your might, you may surpass, in less than one of those eternities, many whom you now suppose to be your intellectual superiors. Such steel as your mind is, sharpen it; make the most of it. Then you will be ready to help your children grow.
Another thing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints offers is many organizations to its members. From the time the little tot can walk alone to Sunday school,


Primary, Religion Class, Mutual Improvement Associations, Seminaries, Priesthood Quorums, Relief Society, Genealogical Society, and finally to the Stake and General Boards; by becoming a teacher in this organization, or in that; by going on a mission, or even by being a silent member and sitting quietly and listening?one learns, learns, learns. There are sections in the daily newspapers devoted to the spread of information and culture. There are magazines by the thousand, which teach while they entertain. There are public libraries, schools, extension courses, and lecturers, all soliciting us to use them.
WHAT MOTHERS CAN ATTAIN
Great is the intellectual responsibility of the mother. She should prepare herself for it before she becomes a mother, and continue to grow afterward. But she need not be rich to do it. She need not travel. She need not even go to college. If she will attend the organization meetings, if she will open her eyes and read with a desire to learn, if she will open her ears and listen with the same desire, if she will open her lips and ask questions when opportunity affords to question those who know more than herself, she will learn and grow.
Never be afraid, O Mother, to reveal your ignorance by asking questions. There is no surer way to overcome ignorance than by asking them. There is no surer way to remain ignorant than to be afraid and keep still when you could learn something you need to know.
After the preparation of herself, comes the responsibility of the mother to guide the unfolding intellect of the child during the pre-school age. When the bright eyes of the toddler begin to notice and compare things in the world about, there comes a veritable deluge of questions. What is this? And why is that? And where did the other come from? Children at times ask questions that a philosopher could not answer. It is the mother's responsibility to answer carefully, truthfully, and simply. It may seem hard to explain things so that the child can understand. It may look easier to put him off with, "Oh, don't bother me, I'm busy," or "You're too little to understand. Don't ask such foolish questions." Refusal may take a little less thought and energy at the time; but later on the cost may be the loss of the child's confidence, the discouragement of his intellectual curiosity.
WHAT STORIES TO TELL
Then comes, over and over again, "Tell me a story;" until
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 269
it seems that every story in the world has been told, and he wants you to tell each one so many times that he may memorize it. Here the mother must exercise care. Tell stories freely?fairy stories, true stories; but let the child understand the difference. Avoid stories that develop fear?as of bears or Indians?or that may produce false ideals. Remember that the imagination of most children is so vivid that while they are listening breathlessly to a story, they are for the time being living that story. The little boy makes himself the hero of your tale. If you tell of Joseph, he wears the coat of many colors, is sold into Egypt, and triumphs in righteousness. If you tell of Peter Rabbit, the boy or girl who listens goes into the cabbage patch and hides from the farmer with all the keen emotion of the rabbit in the tale. He becomes, in turn, Little Bo Peep, Mistress Mary, and Simple Simon. Remember this and let your stories inspire admiration for the proper things. Don't point the moral too noticeably, but realize that in every interesting story there is some sort of moral. Let the child tell stories to you, encouraging him to be truthful; but if he begins to use his imagination and make up stories, listen and enjoy them and show him the difference between the things of the imagination and the things of fact.
When he is old enough to go to Sunday school and Primary, the mother who senses her intellectual responsibility will make an effort to send him there regularly. When he comes home beaming with enjoyment of the games and songs and stories, she will enjoy with him and will ask him to tell her what was done and said, thus impressing more deeply the things that the teacher has said. The child who tells to mother the interesting points of the reading lesson, or explains how to work the arithmetic problem, or who names the countries he has studied, or spells the words he has learned?that child will go back to school next day and be able to tell these things to his teacher and his mates, and his grades will rise.
LET CHILDREN TEACH YOU
Just here many mothers make a mistake. They suppose that in order to help their children, they must teach the children's lesson to them. But the very best way to help them is to get them to teach their lessons to you. If Johnny is stumped on an arithmetic problem, instead of working it to show him how, ask him questions about it, and about simpler ones of the same sort. Make him tell you the rules by which


it is worked. Nine times out of ten he will find his own mistake and triumphantly get the right answer for himself. In other words, he who teaches, learns faster than he who listens. Let your child learn by teaching you.
Encourage him; not with a scolding when he has failed, but with praise when he has succeeded. Don't be afraid of making him conceited. His mates and life itself will take conceit out of him if he gets too much. And the person who has self-esteem will have self-confidence to try for greater things. The person who thinks well of himself will be more successful than the one who is too humble to try. Be honest as possible. Don't praise him for something that is not good, nor boast about him to others, but children hunger for a word of praise, and long for appreciation, often thinking they would like to die just to hear people say nice things at their funeral. Praise overcomes stubbornness or laziness and is the great stimulant to high endeavor. Don't be afraid to praise your children when they have done something worth while; they will pay you by deserving more praise.
DON'T CRITICIZE THE TEACHER
And here is a don't. Please don't place before your child a stumbling block by criticizing his teacher. Go to the teacher and get her side of the story. Children often misunderstand what teacher says; sometimes they only half hear, or forget, or wrongly interpret things. Suppose you try a little experiment. Go to a meeting and write down word for word about three sentences of a speaker who impresses you. Then after meeting ask a friend just what it was he said about that certain subject. Compare the answer with your written record. Ask another friend, and still another. You will be amazed at the result. Within ten minutes after he spoke I have heard a speaker quoted as having said the exact opposite of what he actually did say. One partly hears, another interprets what he hears in the light of his own experience, and another seems to have heard backward. If grown-ups can so misunderstand a sermon what of a child? He probably tells you exactly what he understands. Even if you and the teacher should not be able to reach an understanding, don't make things worse for your child by letting him find it out. If you criticize the teacher, he cannot teach against prejudice and distrust.
When your daughter reaches adolescence she should be taught certain great truths of life. If you don't know just how, find in your community a trained nurse, an experienced teacher or a wise mother, who knows more than you. Go