MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER and women in general. They all became kind and thoughtful husbands and fathers as a result. Girls and boys, alike, washed dishes, cleaned floors, and assisted with the care of the smaller children. 'They truly learned that woman's work was important and not too menial for them to perform. OTHER believed and taught the words of the Savior as he spoke of keeping the Sabbath day holy: "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect " (D&C 59:13). In order to live this commandment, we as children assisted on Saturday with the preparation of the Sunday meal. Each child had a special duty in this preparation, so naturally we learned the meaning of the words of the Savior. In order to have as little confusion as possible on Sunday morning, each child who was old enough, prepared, folded, and put into drawers or on shelves the clothing to be worn on Sunday. Mother did not do this for us. After being shown how to do it, we were expected to do this for ourselves. A child was never allowed to wash or iron clothing on Sunday. Saturday was the day for this. This practice taught planning, orderliness, and respect for the Sabbath. This same training included "a place for everything, and everything in its place." Books, toys, and clothing were expected to be in their place. 'This, of course, meant a place had to be provided. We were never expected to do the impossible or the impractical, so a place was provided. Mother's teachings in charity soon became a daily part of our lives. This was taught by action and with love. We, as a group, prepared Christmas and Thanksgiving baskets to take to the less fortunate. I can visualize the six to ten baskets on the table. 'These were filled, according to the size of the family, by the children, as Mother directed the work. Pies, cakes, chicken, potatoes, eggs, bread, vegetables, and other foods were included. Our own Christmas or Thanksgiving was not planned nor completed until this was done, and the baskets were delivered by the children to the various families. Even the very small children went along. Many, many days and _ nights Mother cared for the sick, even to the assisting with the delivery of a baby. During her absence we children were expected to care for the house, so that we felt we had also assisted in caring for the sick. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," was a truism we often heard, so family camping parties, swimming parties, and lawn parties were held, but never on Sunday. Of course, there were times, among eight children, of discord and disobedience, but these times were not always lost to us. Our wise Mother used these as measuring sticks for evaluating causes and results. Nor was discipline without its humor. I well remember the day that Mother sent my small brother out to get a switch that she might tingle his legs for something he had done. In a few minutes he returned with his small hands full of wheat straws Mother was busy at the time he came in, but when she turned she saw that he had used the straws to spell out across the large kitchen floor "TI love you," and had put several kiss crosses at the end. When Mother saw it, she hesitated for a few seconds, then put her arm around him and said, "I love you, too, son," and kissed him. She did not turn in anger and punish him or scold him. She talked it over with the child, and the subject was dropped. Father was stake president for twenty-five years, so our home was always "open house" to all the General Authorities and auxiliary officers who visited the stake. As we assisted with the preparations for the meals, housecleaning, making beds, and other tasks, we learned to serve the guests and respect them, and listen to their counsel. While they were in our home their shoes were placed outside their rooms at night. The boys shined them and placed them there again to be worn the next morning. The girls put fresh linen on the beds, poured fresh water into the washstand pitchers, and cleaned the rooms. This lightened Mother's work and gave us an opportunity to serve. The principle of tithing was taught not only by example, but through discussion with each member of the family, and with the family as a whole. Plans were discussed whereby it would be possible for full payment of the tithe. Each child figured his own share and paid it himself. Often a child found it necessary to rebudget his expenditures in order to save the ten per 328 cent, but all the children knew that tithing came first on the list. Sister Lucy Parkinson spent many, many hours traveling over the large stake in the service of the Lord. Not only did she teach Primary, Sunday School, and Mutual at times during the rearing of her family, but, as counselor in the stake Relief Society to Sister Louisa Benson, she visited the far, outlying wards as an officer. (Sister Benson was the grandmother of our present member of the Council of the 'Twelve. ) S Mother prepared the lesson in the quiet of her own room, we learned the value of thorough preparation. As she traveled many, many miles by horse and buggy, or horse and sleigh over poor roads, or no roads at all, with only a soapstone (steatite) to warm her, the lesson of dependability was taught. Religious training was daily a part of our living. Often it was merely the following of an example set by our parents. I cherish the hours I spent discussing the principles of the gospel with my parents. I remember that it was during an afternoon when we were gathering corn, that Father explained so clearly to me the mission and attributes of the Holy Ghost. If a question of doctrine came up that Father or Mother did not understand, there followed a period of study, often with the child. My parents were never too busy to explain the gospel to us. There was no place in our training for superstition or fear of the unknown, the dark, forces of nature, lightning, water, or storms. At an early age we became closely ac quainted with these things. As a family we took long walks in the evening and into the dark, thus learning the hidden beauties of the night, rather than fear of it. On starlit nights, we placed blankets and chairs on the lawn in order to look at the wonders of the heavens. It was at such times that Mother explained God's great power, his wisdom, and his purpose for the planets — millions of them. Death, we were taught, was God's plan for graduation from this, the second estate, to the hereafter. Death, we learned, is not a tragedy, nor something to dread. It is comparable to the transition from the first to the second estate, when parents and family anxiously await the arrival of a baby. We learned that someone is present to welcome our loved ones as they leave this life. At the time of death of our loved ones, we were prepared to accept it, MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER President and Sister Parkinson Picture taken in Preston, bo at 4 my ' 2 & a4 a, 4 x ie. °: yd he? Aa TP ee = 5, ee Nea Meee, a pe Ld Idaho, in 1900 so that, gradually, it became a sweet, fond memory. HE power of the Priesthood was witnessed many times, as members of the family, friends, and neighbors were healed, according to their faith. A child was. Never sent from the sickroom when someone was being administered to, rather the children' were invited to be present. I am sure it was Mother's attitude towards the Priesthood and Father's great responsibility as president of the stake for so many years that engendered in our hearts respect for the Authorities. To Mother and Father the main purpose of life was to make of their children candidates for the celestial kingdom. This could not be taught in the home unless the parents believed and lived the celestial law of temple marriage. Brigham Young taught that we must grow in knowledge and grace from day to day, and from year to year. This became Mother's motto in stressing the necessity of learning gospel truths. She taught that to live the law we must know it. The expression "It is high to be a judge" was often heard as judgment was being passed on friend or neighbor. If the criticism continued, a second quotation was used — "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Mt. 7:1). Probably the frequent use of quotations, followed by an explanation, was what made the scriptures become so real, such a part of our family life. NE lesson that we learned well was: Why should we be embarrassed when our Church standards are questioned or made fun of? Mother explained that this is God's Church, not a man-made one. Why should we apologize for it or try to explain it away? Many times this was the only convincing we needed in order to uphold the standards when they were questioned. The teaching of morality was high on the list, and respect for the possessions of others, for the rights of others. 'The children respected the clothing, rooms, and even the time of other members of the family. This one teaching helped to eliminate disputes and confusion. Fairness was something to be cherished. As the small children traded marbles, toys, string, kites, and other articles, they were reminded: "A bargain or a deal is not a good one unless it is equally good for both parties concerned." Even as the 330 children grew into adulthood, this principle was closely guarded. We were taught to "Honour thy father and thy mother." It was Mother who built the image of Father as head of the home. She was always alert to the niceties of life and their application. In teaching respect for Father, his chair, paper, and slippers were always ready and in place for him when he returned from church or office. It was a common thing to see a child, in respect for him when he came in, get up from Father's chair and re mind him it was for him. If he had had a trying day, or if some special disappointment or worry was his, Mother prepared an especially fine dinner, and the children were alerted to be cheerful and leave their problems behind. At these times, Mother showed increased kindness, love, and understanding. Father was never underestimated, downgraded, or made to feel he would not or could not succeed. Encouragement and understanding were Mother's strong points. Often these were all that were necessary to solve a problem. In return for this encouragement, Father showed unusual love and respect for Mother. He was the one who impressed this upon the minds of the children. After our family prayer at dinnertime, Mother did not leave the table in order to serve the meal. Father saw that the children, both boys and girls, did all the serving. They had been trained for this, and each took his turn. 'This same training in respect and consideration was carried into all relationships between parents and children. This teaching of honoring Father MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER THE PARKINSON FAMILY HOME IN PRESTON, IDAHO This home was built in 1895, one of the first large homes in Preston. It was here that Brother and Sister Parkinson reared their eight children. And Mother was carried even further. I can truly say that I never saw my parents quarrel. They had differences, of course, but they never resorted to harsh or loud words. Again, as children went on dates, they were always told, "Remember who your Father is, and remember who your Mother is, and never let them down." 'This was a reminder to shun certain things and accept others. Lucy Parkinson taught well, as shown by President Joseph F. Smith, when he visited our home. During one of these visits, he said, "There is a rare feeling of spirituality, a feeling of calm, and of training, in this home that is not common to all homes." I came to realize that any of the children could say, C What virtues I have, I learned during my childhood in my home; any wrongs I have committed have been of my own making. In thinking over my childhood, I say to myself of Mother, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, when he quoted the Savior: "Ye shall do the work which ve see me do." No finer tribute can I pay to my Mother or to mv Father. 331 ase gp ep 1963 _ CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS. Ri WIN) il in) | HHA th sa Win WN) nln Wy Il Nit i! CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1963 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1963. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize - - -------$40 Second prize $30 Third prize $20 Prize poems will be published in the issue of The (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational Relief Society Short Story Cor HE