EDITORIAL VOLUME NUMBER 5 Eternal Earnings in Twenty-four Hours HE day draws to a close, and darkness covers the room where the woman lies. As sleep hovers a distance away, the events of her day are rehearsed. Some nights, most nights, there are feelings of satisfaction and accomplishment. Occasionally, however, a sense of futility presses upon her, or one of discouragement and reproach. She has come to divide her activities into categories as she reviews the day. Her housekeeping; her gardening; her cooking: these are tangible values, and her heart warms at the thought of the special cleaning she gave her son's closet which had been needing attention for some time. She forgot, again, however, to stake up her delphiniums; the cookies she managed to bake would be welcomed by the children in their lunches and after school the next day. Then her mind turns to values less tangible — the spirit she had lighted in the home with her family that morning. If she had not stayed in bed so long, she would not have been cross as the children got ready 346 for school, which had affected them, in turn, so they were not cooperative and had made them leave for school in an unhappy mood. But the baby had been fretful a great deal in the night, she justified herself, and so it had been very hard to get up. Her mind then weighs those events in an effort to arrive at a solution another time. She silently vows to maintain a sweet spirit the next morning — no matter what — and not to raise her voice even in the hurly burly of hurrying the children off to school. She will pray vocally for that strength, she decides, in a family prayer. Her thoughts then shift to her attitude to her husband. He came home tired, of course, and a little fearful at the day's business experience. Perhaps she could have left the children's wants for a few moments, and have taken more time to welcome him and sympathize with his rather obvious discouragement. The words of the Prophet to Relief Society members run through her head: "Never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands.... When Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer a man is borne down with trouble... [he] needs a solace of affection and kindness."" She resolves to try and not feel sorry for herself, but to extend greater affection and understanding to her husband. Her thoughts then move outside her home. What had she done that day for love of neighbor? Well, nothing, she decides, except be friendly with her neighbor in the back yard. But tomorrow she has planned to do her visiting teaching with her companion — that will be accomplishing something tangible for a neighbor. With this happy thought sleep takes over. Such an evaluation of one's daily activities to fit one's particular situation is an incentive for better living. Most of the time of a Latter-day Saint woman is fully occupied. But it is necessary for one's continued growth to be alert to the destination of each activity. Of first concern is the development in the home of a loving, a heavenly spirit, for the desired destination is a celestial home. No other activity can supplant the importance of developing harmonious relationships and guiding children to righteous living. 'This is a matter of primary concern to a wife and mother as long as she lives. But where are her activities outside her home and family leading her? For guidance in these activities she, may recall the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Is that her goal, and is she journeying toward it? Are her actions such as to engender love for her by her neighbor? Is she striving to learn to love her neighbor, or is she spending her time mostly for her own improvement, for her own enjoyment, for her own pleasure? Every Latter-day Saint woman has twenty-four hours a day to spend. The totals in eternal values which are earned may or may not equal twenty-four. Some may earn but a few minutes in a day, others may earn a full measure. A reckoning, however, will come to every woman, and while it is day, as the prophet has written, is the time to labor. —M. C. S. Ora Pate Stewart T was ten-thirty on Monday night, January 7, 1963, at Garden Grove, California. We were coming home from a welfare errand. My seventeen-year-old son slowed the station wagon to a stop in our driveway and opened the door for me. "Oh, Mom! Look at the sky." The sky, disregarding mountains and construction, began at a ground horizon and arched upward in a perfect dome, round and high — ever so high — and the clouds formed an all-over pattern of square, white pieces fitted together in an artful mosaic like the mottling of rare marble in the ceiling of an ancient building. 'The clouds were unusually white for that time of night, and were marked off squarishly with little rivers — something like a massive ice-flow, with the outlines of deep blue water separating the chunks, symmetrical as square marshmallows arranged in a blue bowl. The moon seemed to have the unusual power to shine through, and seemed to move rapidly across the dome with a pale, opalescent rainbow circling it. The stars did not shine through the cloud-flow, but appeared, fleetingly, like furtive silver fishes, glistening through the blue serrations for a second or two, then disappearing under the cloud banks. A transport plane coming in from the south, winking its alternate red and green wing lights, still too far away to project any more than a faint hum, seemed somewhat out of place: a night moth captured under a great bowl — a single firefly, turning its flicker on and off. 'Then it settled at a distant airport, perhaps Long Beach. I was glad it had found its port, and I felt an apprehension for any wayfayers of the sky who might not have found their way into this solid canopy It was better without the flicker and without the hum. It was a picture unanimated but for the quiet motions of eternity — a part of the greater mural, and yet a part that could never return again exactly as it was. I have never seen anything just like it in my lifetime. It was a picture with a strange power — the power of beauty, the power of peace, the power of quiet contemplation. I thought of the signs and wonders promised for the last days. I thought of the symmetry and order of the unt verse. I thought of God. DPURING the present session of the United States Congress, of one hundred Senators, women: