Too B U sy? Annella Barnes H*R: just a little boy. Far too little to create much mischief. And yet — frequently the afternoon's patching has had to be put aside as I hurried to undo the mischief his busy little hands and feet had found — placing the books back on the shelf, wiping up a cup of water, coming back to my patching to find it well scattered. What's wrong with his toys, anyway? I wonder as I retrieve the overalls, scissors, thread, and thimble. Now back to the sewing. No — he's too quiet. I hurry to find him once again. Ah, there he is, playing contentedly with — oh, no! Not my new dress pattern! Striving to control my exasperation, I reach down to gather up my precious pattern, now torn beyond recognition. Two large brown eyes look up at me in smiling delight. How beautiful they are! Laying aside the really not-too-important pattern, I pick him up, and as we sit and rock together, memories carry me back to just a year ago when, in a hospital room, I had stood beside a large white bed holding a baby's tiny form, lying as though any feeble movement would be too much effort for so fragile a person.. Then the nurse had carefully lifted him from the bed and carried him down the hall to the operating room. I sat down to wait, wondering, would this small boy ever live to smile? Would he ever hold anything in his tiny fists? Would I see his first steps? Yet, today, I have resented his trying out each of these talents and scolded him for it. He is young and thirsty for knowledge — knowledge not gained from a few toys long ago understood. Such an alert little boy cannot be expected to be content with the same blocks, the same little wagon, day after day. Forgive me, little one, for being too busy to help you learn. And. Thank you, dear Lord, for one small boy with large smiling brown eyes and busy hands and feet, ever eager to learn. Surely thou hast an important work for this little one. Help me guide him in his quest for truths, and may I always remember this privilege which is mine.