SHIRT TALES Shirley Thulin HE tale of a shirt can be a happy one, if the shirttail is used to good advantage after it is discarded by your husband or son. There is a lot of good, sturdy material left in a shirt, even though the collar and cuffs have been worn, turned, and worn through again. There are a number of useful items that can be fashioned from the fabric that remains in the back, front, and upper arms of a shirt, and for only pennies, you can have a "new" blouse for sister, a petticoat for a tot, or a maternity overblouse for yourself. Use white dress shirts, and just add new lace or other trim. First thing to do is to cut the shirt apart along each seam. Then carefully unpick the pockets from the shirt front. Take the buttons off, and save them to use. Cut the cuffs off, and cut up each sleeve along the seams. Now press the pieces flat and discard the scraps. You will have the shirt back, the two front pieces, and both sleeves to work with. Woman's Blouse For the blouse, you will need some lace for trim, and a blouse pattern. Choose a simple pattern that buttons down the front. You can cut the back of the blouse from the back of the shirt, the two front pieces from the corresponding shirt pieces, and there will be enough material in the sleeves for puff sleeves. You can cut a collar from the fabric in the lower sleeve. You may be able to use the original shirt front, if the fabric is still good, thereby eliminating the necessity of making new buttonholes. To do this, place the pattern pieces to include the shirt front (Figure 1). To put the blouse together, follow the directions on the pattern. Then, to finish it off, stitch several perky rows of lace down the front, and trim the sleeves with lace to match. Child's Petticoat A petticoat for the tiny tot of the family can be made for only a few cents worth of lace and a snap or button. Cut a paper pattern, using a petticoat that already fits Figure 1 Figure 2 wa t ' \ 370 the child. If it is a worn petticoat, then unpick the seams and press it flat. Trace around each piece on paper, being sure to allow at least half an inch for seams and one inch for the hem. If the petticoat is not worn, but still usable, then just lay it on the paper and trace around it also, being sure to leave plenty of material for seam and hem allowance (Figure 2). There will be a seam down the back of the finished petticoat. Cut the front of the garment from the back of the shirt, and the two back pieces from the two fronts of the shirt. Cut some bias strips from the shirt sleeves, and bind the neck and armhole edges with the bias strips, leaving one shoulder open to be snapped or buttoned for easy slipping on and off. Stitch some lace to the bottom of the petticoat, all around, as you turn up the hem. Maternity Overblouse While waiting for your baby, you will want several maternity overblouses to wear around the house, and these can be made easily and quickly from a discarded shirt. For the overblouse, don't unpick the shirt. All that is necessary to do is to cut off the collar and the cuffs if they show wear. Then cut the round part off of the shirttail, making it straight across the bottom. Use these pieces to make a new collar, and also new cuffs, if you can't use the original ones. Stitch colorful braid down the front of the shirt, and around the collar and across the edges of the cuffs. You may want to put braid around the bottom edge and up the two side splits (Figure 3). Trim the overblouse as fancy or as plain as you desire. Wear the overblouse with the sleeves pushed up in a casual manner, or you could cut the sleeves off and make them straight and short, or puffed. Add a colorful bow to the front at the neck, and you have an addition to your maternity wardrobe for only a few cents. These items all wash and iron well and will outwear many all-new items. You can also use colored shirts for the blouses. Figure 3