Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for , page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Raft River Stake (Utah) Retiring Relief Society Officers Honored at Luncheon, December 29, 1962 Retiring board members, seated, left to right: Viola Wight, Secretary-Treasurer; Thera Harper, President; Myrtle Miller, First Counselor. Standing, left to mght: Alice Neddo, Magazine representative; Lona Hepworth, visiting teacher message leader; Lois Elison, literature class leader; Lois Smith, social science class leader; Gladys Hill, work meeting leader. Absent when the picture was taken were: Helen Kelsey, Second Counselor; Faun King, chorister; Bonnie Lloyd, orgamist; and Rita Holtman, theology class leader. Clara Bevler, newly appointed President, Raft River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A luncheon was held December 29, 1962, honoring the retiring presidency and board members of the Raft River Stake Relief Society. In appreciation for her years of faithful service each sister was presented with a corsage. Besides the honored guests, those in attendance were the new stake officers and board members, President Edwin H. Paskett, of Raft River Stake, and the officers and teachers of all the ward Relief Societies in the stake." Woodruff Stake (Utah and Wyoming) Officers at Visiting Teacher Convention, February 15, 1963 Left to right: Elna Croft, chorister; Amy Mulford, organist; Gweneth Johnson, literature class leader; Clara Schomss, theology class leader; Florence Smith, Work Director Counselor; Charlotte M. Burleigh, President; Jeanette Hopkinson, visiting teacher message leader; Minnie Lowham, social science class leader; Clara Griggs, Secretary; Alpha Richins, work meeting leader; Naomi Harris, Magazine representative. Sister Zelda Jannson, counselor, was not present. Sister Burleigh reports: ""The Woodruff Stake Relief Society held a very successful visiting teacher convention, February 15, 1963. Former Relief Society stake presidents, sisters eighty years of age and over, and visiting teachers having thirty-five or more years of service were presented with a corsage. Souvenir bookmarks were presented to all the sisters present. The table was decorated with small cherry trees and _ silver hatchets. The flower centerpiece was red, white, and blue. The narration "