(Psalms 125:1) Parents and the Temple Marriage Problem T. Edgar Lyon Associate Director, L. D. S. Institute of Religion NOTE—In an attempt to understand what factors are impressive when youth faces the problem of selecting a marriage ceremony, a questionnaire was submitted to a large number of college students and some M Men and Gleaners. Each person was 'requested to comment on the factors that would tend to persuade a young person to choose a temple marriage in preference to one performed by civil authority. The statements and discussions contained in the following article represent the opinions expressed by these young people. A study of the various points suggested should be enlightening in directing parental effort toward a solution of this problem, as they represent the item of greatest interest to many young people. MARRIAGE will probably be the greatest single decision that I shall ever have to make in life. It will demand making such great adjustments that I feel I cannot make them alone. I shall need all the help I can get to make a success of it, and I would not dare venture into it without the complete blessing of God and the certainty of its permanence." In these words one Latter-day Saint girl expressed her attitude toward the necessity of temple marriage. 'The lamentable fact is, however, that many of the young people in the Church are not imbued with this conviction. A perusal of the statistics of those of our young people who avail themselves of the opportunity to marry in the temples and of those who accept civil ceremonies reveals an inherent weakness in the influence that the parents and the Church have had in this respect. Were this not true, so many Church members would not be content to accept an inferior and commonplace ceremony for a superior and more idealistic one. Modern educational methods and instruction, especially in the fields of sociology, psychology and philosophy, are prone to leave the immature youth with a conception that all customs and morals—the so-called folkways and mores—are the result of an evolutionary growth, resulting from trial and error practice. Marriage, as one of the strongest of the mores, according to these views, was at first merely a bargaining with parents for a mate. Later it became a matter of common consent on the part of the contracting parties. Still later, as society became more complex, marriage received legal recognition and was licensed and controlled by the political authority of society. Such an interpretation naturally weakens the concept with which people view the sanctity of marriage and has contributed to the current notion that marriage is simply a matter of contract between parties and may be broken at will if - society allows such dissolution of the marriage bonds. In this respect, the Latter-day Saint has a very definite obligation to teach that marriage is not man-made, but rather that it is ordained of God and had divine approval before either the bargaining. Contract, or civilly recognized forms Page 369 370 had their existence. “The Bible is explicit in this regard; and to the latter-day Church, the Lord has said: unto man." (Doc. And Cov. 49:15) This is one concept that is fundamental and should be stressed by parents and impressed upon the minds of children long before they reach the marrying age. HE following question was asked of a large number of intelligent young people of marrying age: "If you were about to be married, what factors would influence you to marty in the temple in preference to a civil or other religious ceremony?" A tabulation of the responses, given independently, indicated that the greatest single influence would be the example of the parents themselves. Some agreed that this decision would be made consciously, as a result of close scrutiny, while others thought it would be made rather unconsciously. All were agreed, however, that regardless of the method by which the conclusion was reached, the parents' marriage would be the greatest single influence. If their parents had been married in the temple, had thought enough of the temple ceremony to return to the temple periodically as a means of being reminded of the joyous wedding day, their covenants to each other, and the thrill of the concept of being together in the eternal worlds, then certainly the children would feel that such procedure was the best way to insure a successful, happy and permanent marriage themselves. 'They would want to secure the same joy from it that their parents had achieved, and would consider it a privilege to do. Marriage is ordained of God. 

 

 so, rather than a burden or a troublesome inconvenience. One of the greatest appeals that the temple marriage ceremony can make to youth is its sacredness. The massive, dignified edifices we call temples are the real "'Houses of the Lord." 'They are more than meeting houses, chapels, or cathedrals,. Regardless of how ornate the latter may be. The buildings have been dedicated to and hallowed by unselfish, "other-worldly" work. They afford seclusion from the cares and reminders of the world about us. They afford quiet, repose, and spiritual vigor for those who enter their portals. Within the sanctuary of such a structure one feels released from outside influences and senses an approach into a closer relationship with God. A marnage at the altar, rather than in a county court house, home of a bishop, or one's private home, is symbolical and soulstirring. It signifies a willingness to sacrifice all one has in the service of the other contracting party, and together to sacrifice their all in the service of God. Another factor that needs stressing if we are to create a desire to have marriages solemnized in the temples is the concept of the eternity of the marriage covenant. When youths truly fall in love, they will not be contented with a desire for companionship that is restricted to mortality. Youths are radicals and want to go the whole way, not merely part way. So strong is this conviction that accompanies love that numerous people who have never heard of an eternal marriage ceremony, and who may have actually been taught that in the hereafter there is no such thing as a marriage rela- tionship or a continuation of individuality and personality, nevertheless believe that their love is divine and eternal. When this conviction, due to strength of emotional love, can come to people who are uninstructed in the Gospel, it can certainly be intensified in the youth of the Church by proper interpretation. Furthermore, the concept of having an eternal share in the love of our parents and children, as well as our soul-mate, is a powerful urge to see that one's marriage secures divine sanction. It makes it possible for the parents to fulfill their obligation toward their yet unborn children by seeing that they are born under the covenant and thus become heirs of salvation. That temple marriage is one of the greatest of privileges, rather than an obligation, is worthy of emphasis in our teaching of youth. It is, in the first place, restricted to certain individuals; namely, those whose ideals and conduct conform to certain standards. Furthermore, such a marriage places man and woman on an equal footing. The Priesthood of the man becomes a shared blessing of the woman. Within the temples men and women are on a plane of equality, and neither receives more nor is required to give less than the other. 'Temple martiage is unique, distinctive and restricted—it is not for everyone who wills it, but for those who have made themselves worthy of the privilege. There is a permanence about temple marriages that is a vital argument in their favor. Statistically, they are more certain to be lasting than are civil marriages. This is natural, because they are, as a rule, more selective, less hasty, and are entered into more sincerely than the other class. But in addition to these factors, there is another vital point. People approach temple marriage with a conviction that they want it to be a permanent union that even death cannot break. They have no mental reservations, no room for as much as a doubt that their marriage may not be happy, and no idea that they will get married by civil law and then later go to the temple. With confidence they enter the temple to ask God's blessing for an eternal union, based upon the highest ideals that can fill the human heart. This confidence, this mental certainty, results in a matrimonial tie that enables them to meet the obstacles and vicissitudes of life with fortitude and confidence, rather than discouragement or mutual disgust, because they had the battle of life half won when they started. NE vital phase of temple marriage, about which there is the greatest curiosity on the part of young people and the greatest reticence on the part of the older ones, is that of the nature of the endowment and the place of the temple garment in daily life. Certainly much could be said that would be encouraging and enlightening. The following quotation from Elder John A. Widtsoe's Rational Theology contains an excellent summary: "The endowment given to members of the-Church in the temples falls into several divisions: First, there is a course of instruction relative to man's eternal journey from the dim beginning towards his possible glorious destiny. Then, conditions are set up by which that endless journey may be upward in direction. Those who receive this information covenant to obey the laws of eternal progress, and thereby give life to the knowledge received. Finally. PARENTS AND THE TEMPLE MARRIAGE PROBLEM 371 372 it is made clear that a man must sometime give an account of his deeds, and prove the possession of divine knowledge and religious works. It is a very beautiful, logical and inspiring series of ceremonies." (Pp. 126, 127, 1937 edition) This might be further amplified by use of Talmage's House of the Lord, in which he indicates that through the use of the eye, the ear, the emotions, and active participation in ceremonies, the divine plan of life from eternity to eternity is impressed upon the open mind. | The approach to the purpose and wearing of the garment must be made in a constructive, positive manner. It is a symbol of God's protecting care. It is a constant reminder of our sacred vows, our ideals, our hopes, our covenants, and our obligations toward God. As such, it affords us mental protection and spiritual strength, the consequences 

 

 of which are of incalculable value in the face of strife, discouragement or temptation. To wear it is a privilege, not an inconvenience. A person may build a house, with its walls, roof, and floors, and then add plumbing and heating facilities. With a few articles of furniture he may live in his abode, but it is certainly not a finished home. 'The addition of an appropriate decorative scheme, draperies, furnishings, and proper landscaping will all enhance the beauty of the house and make it a nicer place in which to live. Temple marriage does this to the marriage which the state sanctions. It adds to its beauty, richness, appropriateness, and places it in its proper setting—a jewel mounted to catch the rays of divine light on its every facet.