LESSON PREVIEW 1941-42
Theology and Testimony
Articles of Faith
A LOGICAL sequence of study in the theology department to follow after the consideration of the lives of our leaders is a course on the faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints. A study of our Articles of Faith will be undertaken, and this course will extend from October, 1941, through May, 1944. The book, Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, will be used as a textbook instead of printed lessons in the . Each chapter in the book will provide the material for one theology lesson. Because of its comprehensiveness and inclusiveness, the book is ideal for class leaders. It is also heavily referenced at the end of each chapter and there are additional notes in the appendix at the end of the book. The visiting teachers of each ward will carry into each Latter-day Saint home on their October visit a printed card copy of our Articles of Faith, and it is suggested that class leaders capitalize on this and offer suggestions for the use of this card by the women of the Church and their families. Thus, a mother may do much to increase her knowledge of the Gospel and encourage her children to interest themselves in the Articles of Faith. In March, 1841, at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote a sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints. This very famous document was concluded with an epitome of the doctrines of the Church, since called the Articles of Faith. These statements of our faith were not "produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the Church.... The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the Church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the Prophet Joseph Smith." It is essential that every true member of the Church familiarize himself with the doctrines of the Church. Without an understanding of what we believe, we have no criterion by which to judge ourselves. The better the understanding we possess, the more anxious we are to live in accordance with Gospel precepts. Thus, it is necessary for us to become more familiar with the doctrines of the Church that our faith might grow and stimulate us to better living. Following are the lesson titles:
Chapter 1. Introductory Chapter 2. God and the Holy Trinity Chapter 3. Transgression and the Fall Chapter 4. The Atonement and Salvation Chapter 5. Faith and Repentance Chapter 6. Baptism

Chapter 7. Baptism?Continued Chapter 8. The Holy Ghost
Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East
South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for 75 cents for a single copy or in quantities of six or more at 60 cents per copy.
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Expressions of Faith
IN order to increase faith in God and in the Gospel, and in the hope also of stimulating a fuller expression of faith, the Relief Society has planned to study this year in its theology course the doctrines of the Church as given in the Articles of Faith. It is desired that the spirit and influence of this study shall extend to all those who are unable to attend the theological class, but who may be contacted by the visiting teachers of the Society. With this end in view, the General Board of Relief Society will present to each stake, sometime this summer, enough printed card copies of the Articles of Faith so that one may be placed in each Latter-day Saint home when the teachers make their October visits. It is hoped that this card will not be put away in a drawer, but framed or mounted and placed on the wall, where it may be frequently seen and consulted by members of the family. There is a joy in encouraging righteousness in the world. Relief Society visiting teachers have a great mission to perform. At times, a deep concern is felt because some teachers do not make the most of their opportunities to give information, inspiration and encouragement in the homes. This is their privilege as well as their opportunity. It is a great satisfaction to hear of renewals of faith and expressions of blessings derived in the homes because of the fine work of Relief Society visiting teachers. However, there are many teachers who can improve their work. It is desired that every teacher in our Church strive more diligently to be a missionary in spirit, and that she be thoroughly prepared in order to accomplish a maximum amount of good. She should read the lesson, attend the preparation meeting, and pray for help and guidance. "The prepared teacher is the inspired teacher." Women in the Church can do no greater thing than to cultivate a sincere faith in God, which leads to good deeds and peace of soul. To stimulate and cultivate the inner faith which we possess, we must have spiritual exercise and endeavor, which will strengthen spiritual powers. To be consistent Latter-day Saints we must not only know and have an understanding of the doctrines of the Church, but we must express our faith in action. Working on the theory that we must be "doers of the word and not hearers
LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
only," the visiting teacher message committee of the General Board has chosen as the general title of the messages for 1941-42, "Expressions of Faith," with the following titles for each month:

1. Faith
2. Prayer as an Expression of Faith
3. Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
4. Loyalty to Church Leadership as an Expression of Faith
5. Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith
6. Service as an Expression of Faith
7. Sabbath Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
8. Obeying the Commandments of God as an Expression of Faith
Work-and-Business
Better Buymanship
IN the beginning days and years of Relief Society, the activities of the organization were devoted largely to helping people in need. As the program grew and expanded to meet other objectives of the organization, and the educational program became a definite part of Relief Society, activities concerned with helping people to better conditions in their homes were carried forward on the second Tuesday of the month, designated as work-and-business day. Relief Society should reserve in its program a place where up-to-date information and improved methods of homemaking may be discussed and made adaptable in the homes of its members. Anything that mothers can do to become better informed and more efficient in solving the many problems of the modern home on the present income or the reduced incomes that may lie ahead for the American family, will help to raise the standard of living to the highest level possible in each individual case. This objective has a definite place in our Society, as the great majority of its members are not only faithful, devoted Relief Society workers, but also mothers and homemakers upon whom rests the very important responsibility of being the hub around which the many phases of home life revolve. No small part of the manifold duties of a homemaker is to direct the family's consumption problems which are, generally speaking, four in number: those of manager, user, citizen, and buyer. As manager she makes impersonal comparisons between members of the family as to the importance of individual satisfactions, and apportions the family income so that desired values are attained. As user she applies techniques of food preparation, clothing construction, et cetera, to goods and services purchased, and shares in their ultimate consumption. As citizen she takes an active interest in legislation affecting consumption. As buyer she selects goods and services for family use. She should know what qualities she is buying and get what she wants at the lowest cost. To stretch the buying power of the family dollars is a real chal-

lenge and responsibility, and a possibility in most homes. The time element makes it impossible to discuss all four phases of the consumption problem. Since more people may be conscious of the buying phase, that approach to the subject has been chosen. The topics outlined for discussion will open the door to the value and extent of the subject. They will serve as a guide for individual study by the homemakers of Relief Society who are desirous of becoming more wise and efficient as a part of the group which is the chief spender of the nation. Activities involved in purchasing goods and services will take on new meaning and be much more interesting under the general
title of "Better Buymanship." The following subjects are submitted for discussion during 1941-42:
1. The Consumer Movement
2. Judging Qualities in Materials
3. Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials
4. Man-made Fibers in the Spotlight
5. Ready-to-wear Dresses and Coats
6. Hosiery
7. Children's Clothing
8. Care of Clothing
To conserve the space in the for the lesson proper, no references will be printed at the end of each lesson. These references will be contained in a blue bulletin sent by the General Board to stake work-and-business leaders.
Literature
Humor in Life and Literature
AFTER three years of studying "The Advance of the Novel" in the literature department, we make a complete departure. The year 1941-42 will launch us into a course entitled, "Humor in Life and Literature." There are many reasons for choosing such a course of study: First, humor has a definite and dignified place in literature. We believe with Carlyle that "Humor has justly been regarded as the finest perfection of poetic genius." Second, we feel that there is a world-wide need for release from tension at present. Henry Ward Beecher, the great preacher, said, "Mirth is God's medicine.... He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." Quoting the writer of our lessons, "Humor is like the seasoning in our food. We wouldn't want it as an entire diet. How much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it." Every age has had humor. Third, humor distinguishes us from the animal kingdom. Man rises to heights through an appreciation of humor. Humor not only reflects, but it helps to mold. God has given us a sense of humor that we should be careful not to lose, but use and refine. Max Eastman says that "being in fun" is a condition most natural to childhood and that "children at play reveal the humorous laugh in its simplest and most omnivorous form." Humor keeps
LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
alive the luster of life and maintains balance. Fourth, great writers were always aware of it. It is universal. Thackeray said, "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness?your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture?your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." Fifth, the object of the course is not only for literary values, but it will have a wider scope. Through it, we are more aware of the humor of life. We hope that it will lift people's standards and enjoyments; that it will raise the general tenor of our appreciation of humor. There is a place for the practical application of humor in our homes. We have available high-class humor if we look for it. We should make women aware that they need a sense of humor. Many times humor might help us to better understand the point of view of our young people. It is often the sugar-coated method that accomplishes much, painlessly. Many possibilities and an unlimited amount of material for this course await the resourceful teacher and the active Relief Society class member. The following eight lessons will be presented in the under the subject "Humor in Life and Literature:"
1. Introduction
2. Humor?Its Meaning, Principles Governing It, and Mediums of Expression
3. Mediums and Types of Humor
4. Types of Humor?Continued
5. Some Great Humorous Characters
6. Humor In Its Highest Form
7. Humor About and For Children
8. The Importance of a Sense of Humor

There will be no one text used for the course this year, but extensive references will follow each of the lessons. If, however, the stakes and wards wish to buy a book which will give an excellent background for the course, Stephen Leacock's Greatest Pages of American Humor, now on sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, will be of value. (Price $1.25.) The following supplementary reading list will be found helpful: "Humor?An Analysis," Books and Bookmen "The Place of Humor in Schools," F. Freudley, Educational Review "Sense of Humor in Children," N. Waterman, Home Progress, 3:4, September, 1939 "The University and Humor," Bookman, 32:522-9 "What Is Funny and Why," Literary Digest, 115:24, January 21, 1933 "Wit and Humor," Hygeia, 11:1033, November, 1933. "Are Women Humorous?" Outlook, 159:206-7, November 14, 1931 "Laughter of Little Children," Hygeia, 9:452-5, May, 1931 "Sense of Humor in Children," Century, 64:559 "Laughter Tonic for the Tired?Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia, 16: 314-16
If class leaders will consider the following authors in their summer reading program, they will find excellent enrichment material for the literature lessons:
Bill Nye Benjamin Franklin James Whitcomb Riley Thomas Bailey Aldrich Eugene Field James T. Fields H. C. Bunner Samuel S. Cox Mark Twain Nathaniel Ward Harriet Beecher Stowe Artemus Ward Oliver Wendell Holmes Robert J. Burdette James Russell Lowell John G. Saxe Washington Irving Bret Harte Frank R. Stockton William D. Howells

Irvin S. Cobb A. A. Milne Will Rogers Stephen Leacock O. Henry E. M. Delafield Edna Ferber E. P. Wodehouse Ring Lardner Charles Lamb Booth Tarkington Robert Burns Edmund Vance Cooke Charles Dickens Clarence Day H.