[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Do | Author: It]
Do Lt Yourself Joy Hulme HE do-it-yourself urge with me is like yeast. Hidden away in my being somewhere are the tiny spores waiting for the proper frame of mind to nourish them. When a spark of thought warms them, and they are fed the sweet sugar of ambition, they begin to ferment and grow within me until I am filled with a bubbling effervescence for action, My husband Bill has choked down sandwiches for dinner many a time while he suffered through the worst and hoped for the better. My children have learned to make their own beds or open a can of soup for lunch in case of emergency. (emergency has a very liberal meaning at our house.) But the person who has needed the most understanding is my mother-in-law. Some supersensitive instrument must have been built into Bill's mother for her to detect when the yeast has come to a head, that she can always pick the day of my latest project to "drop in." It is almost as uncanny that I cannot predict her visits. I have not yet figured out what pattern they make on her closely followed schedule of things to do. I can predict a week, a month, or even ten years in advance that come Monday morning, she will wash. Tuesday, rain, shine, or hurricane, she will have the ironing finished by ten o'clock. So it goes. She has a time for everything. She never has spring or fall housecleaning as I do, when everything is turned excitedly upside down for two weeks and finally settled comfortably, Page 256 cleanly back. Each day she does some of those extra cleaning chores. She would never say on a fine spring Monday, "I think PI] just sit under the apricot tree and drink in the deliciousness of the air." I could. And, likely as not after studying the pleasing shape and arrangement of blossoms on the apricot bough, I would think, wouldn't that make a nice design for an etched aluminum tray? I'd make a circle of my fingers and, looking through it with one eye closed, move it closer and farther away from the flower-laden twig, until I had determined the placement of the spray in the design I was already forming in my mind. I really should make something for Mary Jean 'Thomas' wedding, I would think. And the bubbling was started in my brain. By afternoon I would be deep into the project. 'The dishes would still be in the sink and the floor littered with not quite perfect patterns that lay where I had dropped them in my zest to make a better once. My fingernails would be black with asphaltum, but on the tray the design would be painted in neat clean lines. About the time I would hold it up to admire the freshness of spring I had caught, Bill's mother would ring the bell, and I'm sorry to say, she would not catch any freshness of spring, but rather the choke of turpentine, as she came through the door. HE truth is I wanted to feel that way myself. My mother-in-law was everything I'd like to have been — calm, cool, collected. I yearned DO IT YOURSELF to be the competent master of my fate that she was. But efficiency was a conservative garment I wore only occasionally. I still kept it well pressed, hanging in the closet to slip on at a moment's notice, hoping for the chance to appear casually clad in it when my mother-in-law arrived; but I never had time to get it on. Last spring I thought I was cured forever and ever of the do-it-yourself business. It started one morning as [ lay in bed and saw a cobweb hanging from the ceiling. I looked around for more and noticed, not for the first time, the streaked green color of the walls and the dark spots by the light switch. "This room needs painting," I said. "Uh huh," agreed Bill who was always affable when he wasn't quite awake. The idea was only a_ vague thought. I could turn away from it. Sometime later I got to the mental game of choosing a color scheme, and the day I saw the paint sale at the hardware store, I knew there was no turning back. I don't like to paint at all, really, so the thought was in my mind to have Bill do it, although his uncooperative idea about all do-it-yourself projects was that they cost nearly as much as a professional job by the time you had bought the tools; that they didn't look so well; and besides (and mostly) that they were too much work. I didn't ever really expect Bill to do it, but just mentioning it was part of the process. Sometimes it took a good deal of impatience to get the yeast-like action going. After several days of hinting, I 257 finally said, "When are you going to paint the bedroom?" "You're not expecting me to do it, are you?" he asked. That settled that. Still I had had to eliminate the possibility that he might do it because I didn't want to, either. After that I took to measuring the room with my eye and approximately the number of strokes with the roller it would take to do each wall. I assembled the tools and materials needed so nothing would slow me down once I got that urge to get the job done. Still no urge. The yeast was getting old. It was one Monday morning, after a particularly peaceful week end, that my eyes swept the room with a new speed. The size of the walls diminished under my gaze, and the length of my arm sweep and the width of the paint roller were exaggerated by my _ exuberance. And today was Monday. Bills mother would be too busy with her washing to catch me in a mess. "I think ['ll just paint this room today," I said. "Uh huh,' mumbled Bill and rolled out of bed. Just paint this room today, indeed! That proved to be the understatement of the century. I started to pull up the covers on the bed but threw them back instead. Might just as well have clean sheets, too. I'd just toss them in the washer. As soon as Bill had gone to work and the older children were off to school, I stacked the dishes and started the painting. If only a roller or brush could sweep down a wall as fast as the eye thinks it can! I had failed to con- 258 sider the rough finish of the plaster. It took a great deal of pressure on the roller to force the paint into the recesses of the wall. Before long I was puffing with the effort. I paused and looked back to admire the spot I had finished. The thirsty plaster was drinking in the paint like a blotter. Instead of the clean oyster-white I had in mind, the spot was a dingy, pale, seasick green. Feeling a pale, seasick green myself, I turned back to my task with more determination but less enthusiasm. Pd have to hurry to get two coats done before Bill came home and saw that bilious color. Four-year-old Wayne appeared in the doorway. "Whyn't you give me 'prize?" he asked. ""An' not a kiss." "I don't have any surprises," I said, stretching to reach a little farther on the ceiling. "Run outside now and play in the sand pile." Finally, by staring him down, he said, "Okay," and the door slammed. By mid-morning my_ shoulders ached from pushing, and my neck was stiff from holding my head tipped back to look at the ceiling. I remembered the sheets in the washer and went to hang them out. Then the overflowing hamper of soiled clothes demanded attention. When I had put down my paint roller to hang clothes for the sixth time, I looked at the clock. Patty would be home from school any minute and could play with Wayne when he woke up from his nap. In another blessed hour Edward would be home from his paper route. He could help me with the second coat. I'd tried a swipe where the patat had already dried and it was the gleaming, clean color of an oyster shell. My spirits had revived somewhat, but I had given up on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 my time schedule. The woodwork would have to wait until tomorrow. Edward came in about four o'clock with his face looking like a storm cloud. "Finished your route already?" "No, I haven't started it. My bike won't work." "What's the matter with it?" "The fender drags on the wheel." "Can you fix it?" "I just have to tighten up a screw." "Go tighten it then. What's all the fuss about?" "I can't reach the screw without taking the wheel off. Ill need a little help." Edward and I have an_ unexpressed understanding between us. I will give him help when he needs it, and he will do the same for me. It is very fine to have a son like that. We had the wheel off his bicycle and the guilty screw tightened in a few moments, but couldn't get the axle nut tightened after we replaced the wheel. After working for half an hour, we discovered the threads were stripped. We were rummaging in the odds-and-ends box looking for a new part when the phone rang. It was Mr. McCloud wanting to know why his paper hadn't been delivered yet. "Get in the car,' I said to Edward. "I'll take you around your route." I called to Patty to wash the breakfast dishes and set the table for supper while she watched Wayne. "All right," she said. Patty is a delightful child. "Please help me with my arithmetic, when you get back," she called. HAT night when Bill and I crunched our way to bed across DO IT YOURSELF the newspaper-strewn floor, he said, "We should have hired John Olson to paint this room." "We couldn't afford it,' I reminded him. He acted as if [Pd reduced the resale value of the house at least five hundred dollars by doing the job myself, and we couldn't afford that either. "It will look better with a second coat," I assured him, pointing to the spot I'd gone over twice. "I hope so." He sounded dubious as he turned out the light. The next day I painted with the greatest care. I went over every spot until not a speck of green was showing. 'The enamel on the woodwork was brushed and brushed and not a drop allowed to run. [ painted around the window glass with a meticulousness unheard of by professional painters. 'This took a good deal of time, however, and by afternoon I could see I wouldn't finish this day either. I sank wearily into a chair. I felt the enthusiasm escape from me in tired little puffs. This time the yeast had risen too high. 'Tomorrow I would start being efficient like Bill's mother. I'd make a schedule and leave no time on it for my crazy schemes. Tomorrow when the painting was finished, that is. I picked up a paper and pencil and made a few notes: Monday, wash; Tuesday, iron. I may be slow to get started, but at least I'm not a quitter, and the next morming I was at my task early. This was very much to my credit, for the air outside was like bubbling gingerale—sparkling, cool, imviting. Bill's enthusiastic "'Not bad. Not bad, at all," when he saw 259 the room, had given my spirits the lift they needed. I marveled at my luck that my mother-in-law hadn't caught me in the worst of all messes. No sooner had this thought crossed my mind than a car crossed the intersection and drove to a stop in front of the house — her car. I quickly wiped the paint from my arms, peeled off my dirty clothes, and slipped on a clean dress. I sprayed air freshener in a thick choking fog to dissipate the paint odor and shut the bedroom door. WHEN the bell rang for the secone time, I called, "Come in," from the kitchen where I'd started to wash breakfast dishes. I had to look twice to make sure it was Bill's mother. No crisp gingham today. She was wearing an old skirt, and one of Dad's faded shirts. My mouth was so busy being open she was the first to speak. "I came to help you," she said, "with the painting." She should have been a detective. I thought my quick camouflage had been complete. "How did you know?" "I heard from Bill and I see paint on your nose," she said simply. "Where's a brush?" "But today is your day to clean the linen closet." I had memorized her schedule by now. "Forget the linen closet. Who will know a hundred years from now if I cleaned it today or not?" "Mother, sit down. Do you feel all right?" "IT haven't felt better for thirtyfive years." 260 "Will you explain what's happened to you?" "Nothing happened to me. 1 happened to it. Emancipation ProcJamation." I decided I'd better humor her. I was afraid something had snapped in her well-disciplined mind. "What did freeing the slaves have to do with you?" I asked. "I have just freed myself from being a slave — a slave to my house, to my work. But, mostly, to my schedule. I burned it." "Burned your schedule?" "Yes, I wanted to be like you. Master of my fate." "But I'm not master of my fate at all. You're the one." "Oh, yes, you are," she said. "If you want to do something, you do it. 'm always wanting to come over to see what new and exciting things you are doing." The new, exciting things she was talking about rushed in a quick procession through my mind — the etched trays, the ceramic figurines, the floats for the children's parades, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 raisins drying in the sun, copper tooling, mosaics, piecing quilts. The line was long. It had been fun. "You've taught your children to do all sorts of things," she went on. "You are never too busy to help them learn." I hadn't really taught them, just let them work with me. 'They were so eager, and their small fingers responded skillfully. It was true they had learned to do many things both to help and for fun. I crumpled the paper I had started writing my schedule on_ last night, and dropped it in the waste basket on my way to the bedroom. "Let's hurry and finish the painting," I said, "and then how would you like to ride up the canyon and take a picnic?" "Td lave to,' Mother answered. "We could get some river stones so I can get started on that rock garden I've wanted so long." One thing I didn't know about do-it-yourself until then. It's contagious. O<-- Claim Maude Rubin I claimed this garden plot for mine From desert earth I'd made it, Planted every rose and tree, Harbored bird and humming bee, Hoarded seed and gently laid it In the furrow — powdered fine Was every clod of dry adobe. But now these flowers so full of wonder, These drums of hail, these shouts of thunder, Tear my flimsy claim asunder God's — the seed, the storm, the tree, God's — the garden, lent to me!