[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Planters | Author: Wangsgaar]
anters for the Patio Eva Willes Wangsgaard NE of the surest ways to increase the outdoorsy fecling of the patio and tie it to the garden is by means of planters. So containers become of basic interest — what sizc, what shape, where and how to obtain them? I made mine and collected Oriental kegs to add to them. 'The Japanese grocers import native foods for their customers. Soy bean sauce, pickled plums, etc. Arrive in wooden kegs of a delightfully artistic design. 'hey are made of hardwood staves.' with bamboo rounds. Removing the paper labels, sanding off the print, and applying a coat of spar varnish is a very small task, and you have a beautiful jardiniere, or with a brace and bit, you can bore drainage holes and have a practical planter that will enhance the beauty of any arrangement. Since the kegs are made of wood, if thev are used as jardinieres, they need periodic soaking to prevent shrinkage and falling apart. But as planters, the watering of the plants keeps the staves moist and tight. The goods boxes which carry the canned goods in from the Orient are another source of planter material. 'These may be obtained through the Japanese grocers for a few cents each. 'They take redwood stain well, and, being hardwood, make particularly serviceable containers. One box sawed in half lengthwise will make two planters. The lids provide the material for filling in the open side. If the lids are not available, two boxes will make three planters 7" x 10" x 20", which may be finished in two shapes — depending on whether you use the 7" side for the bottom or the 10" side. This is determined Page 251. 252 by the space it has to fit, and also, by what the intended planting is. The shallow, wider box is a satisfactory petunia and shallow-rooted plant container. 'The deeper box serves well for geraniums and coleus plants. In making containers of wood, one must keep in mind the fact that wood swells when wet and may warp out of shape. 'This warping is controlled by binding the bottom and sides around both end _ pieces with strips of metal. For this one can use the metal strips that come off peat moss bails and similar sources, but, usually, I use brass weather-stripping because it is just as binding and is ornamental as well. When inch-wide stripping was all I could purchase, I split it lengthwise with the garden shears with little resistance. An additional binding around the middle with full-width weather-stripping makes a good decoration. NOTHER source of material is the redwood pieces discarded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 in the kindling piles at the local lumber yards. Also, it pays to buy redwood by the foot and make your own designs, because in that way you can fit the size and shape of the planter to your requirements. I had mine cut to measure at the planing mill and put them together with small finishing nails. The least expensive material is the unfinished redwood used for basketweave fences. It has a pleasing, rough texture. For other spots you might prefer the finished redwood. You can buy it in a number of widths and thicknesses, and, cut to measure, the finishing of the boxes is a simple, pleasant job. Except for the kegs, most planters, of whatever wood they are made, look better and give longer service if they are given two coats of redwood finish "three-in-one," which stains, seals, and waxes in one application. My patio contains two house windows. I leveled my sills with a piece of 2" x 8" redwood beveled on the underside to fit the slope and PLANTERS FOR THE PATIO secured to the widowframe with angle braces. Around this slab, and protruding one half-inch above the surface, I nailed a wide strip of weather-stripping which serves as a hip to prevent slipping of window boxes and as an ornament. Window boxes trimmed with redwood bark and planted with Madeira vines make a picture of the windows and soften the severity of the firebrick walls. Carrying out the theme in the garden, the fifteen-feet circle, which is my ims garden, is only foliage from June on. 'To fill this space with color, depth, and _ interest, planters and stands proved an aesthetic answer. Large boxes 10" x 10" x 27" filled with Maytime petunias, and resting on iron stands, backed by taller merchandise-display stands, loaded with tiers of planters filled with Pink Wizard petunias, which carried out both depth and height to the color picture, carry summer color out, up, and back to the background of Persian lilacs. A nail keg, cut wide at the mouth and bearing a rich redwood coat, holds a_ growing bouquet of dwarf dahlias and fills the center spot. Each year teaches me a little more about color effects and timing, but I key my whole garden color scheme to the phlox which, in this locality, are at their height in 253 patio season. A planting of City of Portland (melon pink) cannas is lovely in an Oriental keg with lower-growing related plants such as chin-cher-chin-chee or gladioli blooming around them. The small boxes that fit the flower cart are made of cut-to-measure finished redwood and planted with coleus, geraniums, and fibrous begonias. To keep planters off the floor and allow drainage, which is provided for by bored holes, I use rubberheaded furniture protector pins or rubber caster cups nailed on upside down. Planters frequently need moving for convenience or for obtaining sun and shade as required for plant growth. 'This chore is made simple by use of a few homemade dollies. One wide board cut the proper length for fitting the planter, reenforced by a cross piece at either end, is made mobile by screwing casters to the cross pieces, one in each corner. [f no wide wood is available, the crosspieces make it easy to hold narrower lumber together. Homemade dollies have two advantages over commercial ones, they cost less and can be made to fit the need. The casters of the type that screw to the bottom of things can be bought at most hardware stores for a_ reasonable price. tien Dan isan Sewing for a Best-Dressed You Wilma M. Rich you always look as if you had stepped straight from the pages of Vogue!" my neighbor reflected aloud one day. "How do you do it?" "By sewing all my own clothes," I answered simply. With a wail close to tears, she asked, "But how? I sew, too, but I come closer to looking as if I've splurged at a third-rate rummage sale instead. What makes the difference?" What does make the difference? Expensive materials? Four hundred dollar sewing machines? Extensive sewing courses? Or just taking a few specific pains and double checking? Speaking from experience, I've discovered that good quality materiai and a smooth-running machine do help, as do hours of experience and learning; but the big thing that makes the big difference is learning to eliminate a few simple mistakes. Mistakes most often made by beginners as well as experienced seamstresses can be wiped quickly and easily from the slate and thus save frustrated tears and chucked away, half-finished clothes. But how? Well, to explain easily, let me list the "don'ts" to watch out for and leave the "do's" to the pattern you choose to create with. First of all, Pll generalize with one tremendous don't that briefly overheads all smaller ones: Don't shortcut! The others follow and are all of importance. Page 254 1. Don't begin your article until you are completely familiar with your pattern, material, and sewing machine. If you do, it is like putting your confidence in numerous, strange business partners. 2. Don't underestimate the value of markings on your pattern pieces. Use them to full advantage. Having a dot or a broken line to follow may save many precious moments and stitches. 3. Don't choose at random the kind of seam for your garment. Investigate types of seams for different types of clothing and complement your article with the best seam possible. 4. Don't feed material under the needle too fast and turn out faulty, uneven seams. Anyone can sew fast, but only an expert can sew Straight. 5. Don't leave seams unfinished or depend entirely upon pinking shears for finishing seams. Leaving a seam unfinished is like leaving a cake un-iced, and pinked edges are only effective on certain materjals. All materials fray; only finished seams keep unruly threads intact. 6. Don't neglect to clip curves and trim seams when the pattern calls for it. Carelessness may produce puckers and humps and look very unattractive. 7. Don't fight "the battle of the bulge." If bulges crop up in obvious profusion, don't try to push or pry them out, the result may be hazardous. Get to the base of the problem and work it out deftly from where the bulge begins. 8. Don't cover one mistake with another. Two wrongs don't make a right. Undo the first and the second will take care of itself. G. Don't scowl at and skip around the word "'baste'" on a guide sheet. It is put there for your benefit and will simplify your job immensely. Take the extra time that says you care. THIRTEEN DONT'S IN SEWING FOR A BEST-DRESSED YOU 255 10. Don't tack by machine in conspicuous places. It may spare you a moment, but will cost you that fashion-lovely look you desire. 11. Don't pull gathers haphazardly. The tiny gathers determine the graceful curve of a sleeve and the full, flaring drape of a skirt. Make them precise. 12. Don't finger-press. Use an iron so your seams, pleats, tabs, and plackets will lie flat and even. 13. Above all, don't sew under stress. An hour of mistakes may be avoided by a twenty-minute relaxation break. To sum up: Don't take your sewing for granted. 'Take time, use care, and be tolerant and patient. You'll discover a whole new world of delight ahead and an exquisite, fashion-fancy, new you. Un told Paanive Vesta N. Fairbairn Like an opening flower, Like morning's dawnlight hour, Like the unread page, Like spring's first breath of sage, Like untried chords and tone Of a song, unsung, unknown, Like mystery of earth Is each year's joyous birth.