[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
West Comal Sitges Watton Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian IIE West Central States Mission was organized at a conference held in Billmgs, Montana, on November 11th and 12th, 1950, under the direction of Elders Harold B. Lee and Ezra Taft Benson, of the Council of the 'Twelve. The mission was formed from districts taken from three other missions: From the North Central States Mission — West North Dakota, Milk River, and Yellowstone; from the Northwestern States Mission — Northern Montana, Great Falls, Missoula, and Butte; from the Western States Mission — Wyoming and Black Hills Districts. Elder Sylvester Broadbent was installed as president of the new mission, and eighty-eight missionaries were transferred from the three missions to labor under his direction. A commodious mission home was purchased at Billings, where the headquarters was established. In June 1953, the Butte Stake was organized from branches taken from the West Central States Mission, under the direction of Elders Spencer W. Kimball and LeGrand Richards, of the Council of the 'Twelve. This was the first stake organized in the State of Montana. President Sylvester Broadbent served faithfully as president of the West Central States Mission until December 1953, when he received his release. He was succeeded by Samuel A. Hendricks. President Hendricks served until March 1957, and under his leadership the work of the mission was greatly enlarged. He was succeeded by George F. SimCourtesy Hungry Horse News Submitted by Anna C. Merrill LAKE McDONALD, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Page 216 THE WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 217 Rise Studio, Rapid City, South Dakota Submitted by Anna C. Merrill THE SHRINE OF DEMOCRACY CARVED IN MOUNT RUSHMORE, SOUTH DAKOTA Left to right: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln mons. President Simmons served until June 1957, when he was rclcased on account of illness. In June 1957, the Great Falls and Missoula Stakes were organized in the West Central Statcs Mission, making three stakes in all in Montana. After the release of President Simmons, former mission President Samuel A. Hendricks served as acting president until the appointment of Casper W. Merrill, in August 1957. With President Merrill in making the first tour of the mission was Elder Alma Sonnc, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. On his return to Salt Lake City, Elder Sonne said: "Missionary work is making steady progress in the West Central States Mission, and the prospects are exceedingly bright." President Merrill is serving at the present time. On December 31, 1959, there were 9,608 members of the Church in the mission, located in forty-four branches. During the year of 1959, there were 782 converts baptized. Forty-eight Relief Society organizations, with 1055 members, were reported in December 1959. Anna Crockett Merrill presides over the West Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of St. Mary's Lake, Glacier National Park, Montana, taken from a transparency by Hal Rumel. See also "Recipes From the West Central States Mission," by Sister Merrill on page 244. That Special Flavor Dorothy S. Romney C LAIRE Connelly pulled the down quilt over her ears in a futile effort to keep out the angry shrilling of the telephone. Then she remembered that Matt had worked late last night, had gone to bed completely exhausted, and needed sleep. She sat up abruptly and reached for the telephone. She attempted to sound at least half-awake, but failed. She felt too miserable to make the required effort. "Claire," a voice on the other end of the wire said, "this is Sister Herth. Matt stopped by on his way to work and said you weren't feeling well again. I want to come over, but can't get there for a little while. Jim is short-handed this morning, and Pll have to help out." Claire looked around her. Sure enough, Matt was gone. The house had that empty, silent quality. She looked at the clock on the dressing table. The hands stood at ten o'clock, later than she had ever allowed herself to sleep. "Matt shouldn't have done that," she apologized. "I feel all right. A bit tired, but otherwise all right," She insisted, thinking all the while that it wasn't true. Her head ached, and she had that same alarming shortness of breath she'd felt yesterday. "You have enough to do without taking on my chores," she continued. "Pll be over as soon as I can make it," Sister Herth replied. There was silence on the line. "Claire, are you all right?" the older woman asked. Page 218 "Yes," Claire answered, "perfectly all right. And please don't interrupt your busy day. I really don't need you." She rather hoped that she didn't sound too convincing. Sister Herth was such a comforting person to have around. "Tll be over," her neighbor repeated, and hung up. Past experience told Claire it did no good to argue with Sister Herth. She was also fully aware that her neighbor was a woman of few words but of tremendous action. 'The Herths were wonderful neighbors, always ready to help out in an emergency, but far too busy with their extensive dairy farm to have much time for trivialities. Claire hung up the phone, slipped into a housecoat and slippers, and went into the dining room. She sighed as she looked through the door at the stack of dinner dishes awaiting her at the sink. She had been just too tired to do them last night. Claire sat down. She was frankly puzzled. I "Why has the zest and sparkle suddenly and completely gone from my life?'' she asked herself. ''Perhaps it's my age." She pondered this thought for a moment. "Nonsense,' she reminded herself, "fortysix 18 positively youthful. There must be another explanation." HE had just had a complete physical check-up, and been pronounced "fine." 'The doctor had, however, started to tell her something just as she was leaving his office, when he'd been interrupted THAT SPECIAL FLAVOR by a nurse with an urgent telephone call. "Just be careful you don't he had said, and that was all she had heard. Maybe she should call him and ask him to finish the warning. 'There must be some reason for her feeling so miserable. She was remembering that Matt had watched her all through dinner last night with obvious concern. "What you need is a complete change," he had pronounced. "I've just had a complete change," Claire had pointed out, "and it didn't take." "Tll get you that ticket to Utopia one of these days,' he had promised. It had been a standing joke all through their life that someday just the two of them would go away on a nice, restful trip. "Two to Utopia," Claire had repeated, "it sounds funny, but nice." Matt had picked up his briefcase, gone into the den, and had worked far into the night. Claire had awakened several times and heard him murmuring in his sleep, as he always did when he was overtired. She felt guilty. She went into the kitchen and prepared a light breakfast, and then found that she had no appetite for even this small meal. Yes, she concluded, that old familiar lift is definitely missing. She began again to probe for the reason. With Marny, her eldest, married five years, with Dick staying on at the University for the summer courses to catch up after serving his mission, and Mark, their baby, just beginning his foreign mission; with her calling as Relief Society literature teacher finished until fall, Claire had suddenly found herself with very little to do. 219 A complete change from the busy life she had led in the past, her thoughts continued. Perhaps a trip would be just the tonic she needed. 'Twenty-seven years of marriage without one honest-to-goodness vacation was a long stretch. Then she remembered all the delightful "snatches" of vacation they had enjoyed, she and Matt and the children, because she had never, never gone on a trip without Matt, and it had been difficult for him to leave town for more than a few days at a time. Claire got up determinedly, and went into the bedroom. Sister Herth mustn't see what a drone she had become. She would dress and have all the work out of the way before her energetic neighbor arrived. Of course, there wasn't much that needed doing, outside of the dishes. She had promised to put the finishing touches on a dress for Marny to take with her on the convention trip she and Peter would make, and to iron a white shirt for Matt. As she came into the kitchen, a wave of dizziness passed over her. She leaned against the sink for a moment's rest. The doorbell rang and interrupted her reverie. It can't be Sister Herth, she thought. It has only been a few minutes since she called — thirty at the most. But it was. "Jim decided he could get along without me,' she explained, "so I came right over." "I'm being a bother," Claire apologized again. "TI just get these dishes out of the way," Sister Herth said. "You sit down and talk to me." Claire sat down as directed. She 220 watched her neighbor's energetic movements. She felt as if something dreadful were closing on her, like an ether cone over her face, cutting off her breathing. "Tm sure there's ironing to do," her neighbor said, as soon as the last clean dish was put away. She was on the service porch with the iron swinging expertly over one of Matt's difficult-to-iron shirts, before Claire could protest. Claire stood uncertainly in the doorway, feeling like a stray kitten someone had left on the doorstep. ISTER Herth critically. "You look tuckered,' she observed. "Why don't you take a nap while I'm ironing? 'Then [ll stay and have some lunch with you." Oh, thought Claire, feeling more than ever like a rudderless ship, she's treating me as if I were a baby. And then. Added, perhaps it's because I'm acting like one. She had never, over the years, known Sister Herth to interrupt her busy day just to sit down and cat luncheon — unless it was an occasion with real meaning. Matt surely must have convinced her that Claire needed her. "Imagine a nap in the middle of the day," she protested. "A nap will do you good," her neighbor insisted. "Perhaps it will," Claire agreed. Her knees were actually beginning to buckle. Nevertheless, she felt guilty as she went into her bedroom. Unable to go to sleep, Claire finally decided to get up and see what she had for lunch that was tempting. She combed her hair, put on a fresh frock and lipstick, washed her hands, and went into looked at her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 the kitchen. Her head felt somewhat better. As soon as they had eaten lunch, Sister Herth insisted on washing up the dishes. After that she left for home, telling Claire she'd look in on her tomorrow.