[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Christening | Author: Walker]
Christening the Tlew Carriage Lula Walker I' was an ecstatic moment when I first saw our new carriage that lovely summer morning in 1905. No sleek-lined Cadillac could ever thrill me as did that carriage, its satiny smoothness gleaming in_ beautiful newness — a marked contrast to our weather-worn old spring wagon. The carriage was a complete surprise. Only the night before papa had smuggled it into the shed, then driven it out next morning at the strategic moment when we were ready to go visiting. For years we had longed for a carriage. Now we had one, with a wonderful glossy top to shelter us from both sun and rain. No more aching arms from holding parasols. And those intriguing little glass boxes up in front held real kerosene lamps. Fancy driving along a dark road with carriage lights gleaming like a couple of giant fireflies! Papa had perfectly timed the new purchase with our long-planned visit to the Wright family who lived on a distant farm in the "Eagle" neighborhood. Proudly we climbed in, Papa and Mamma in the front seat, we children in the back. Off we went behind Major and Ribbon, our faststepping sorrels. 'The carriage rode marvelously. It was like skimming along on air compared to our clumsy spring wagon. Everywhere was lush summer greenness—rolling meadows, fields of knee-high corn, and great clumps of wild roses dotting the roadside. In spite of our urging him to go fast, Papa drove slowly, saving the horses, he said. Poking along was not in keeping with a handsome new carriage, when we knew our team could pass any other on the road. Not till we reached the National Trail did Papa "let out the ponies." 'This was the best road in the country, eraded and dragged to almost boulevard smoothness by the enterprising Eagle farmers. But there was another reason for Papa's increased speed. 'This fine road was attracting those newfangled automobiles. Just as well get out of danger as soon as possible, Papa said. The possibility of meeting one of the machines put a slight damper on our high spirits. We were fearful as to how Major and Ribbon might react to their first sight of an automobile. Terrible stories were told of what sometimes happened when horses saw automobiles. 'There had been runaways and even people killed. Women seldom drove on the road any more. A man's grip on the reins was needed if one of those nefarious machines was encountered. LERT to danger, we kept close watch on the road back of us. Suddenly, my heart stood still, but I managed to gasp, "There comes one!" No need to say what. Papa urged the team ahead, while the rest of us concentrated on that brassy-eyed monster. If only we could reach the safe haven of Mr. Wright's barnlot before it caught up with us! The horses' hoofs clicked faster Page 261 262 and faster, but what horse could match a machine that raced at the reckless speed of twenty miles an hour? It was gaining on us! No doubt about it. The horses' ears were up. They had scented the acrid smoke of that fearful machine. Mr. Wright's red barn loomed ahead. We might make it if the gates were open. With the sprawling hedge, we couldn't tell. Closer and closer came the wheezing monster. "Hurry, hurry!" we warned Papa. A tickle of the whip, and the team broke into a gallop. Just ahead, a man was wildly waving his arm in the direction of the gate. 'Thank goodness it was open! Mr. Wright's firm hand gripped Ribbon's bridle as the brasstrimmed machine went snorting by. The horses stood panting with heaving sides, but we and our new cartiage were safe. We hadn't realized how common the gas buggies had become. Before the day was over, a half dozen went whizzing by. And each time we children raced to the front gate for a close-up of this fascinating machine. With their curiosity under better control, the grownups took their vantage point on the front porch. Almost as queer looking as the automobiles themselves were the occupants — men in funny black goggles, women with long fluttering veils, and both men and women wearing long coats that Mrs. Wright said were "dusters." Conversation that day didn't fall into the usual pattern of "man talk" and "woman talk." In the parlor Mr. Wright and Papa made desultory attempts to discuss crops. But it was hard to concentrate on corn when any minute they might have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 to dash to the porch to see how the passing model differed from the one that went by an hour ago. Both Papa and Mr. Wright were agreed that automobiles were a menace. Vermont might have the right idea, they said, in passing a law that forbade driving an automobile on a public road unless a man walked several hundred feet ahead to give warning. But Mr. Wright admitted a few Eagle farmers were getting "'the bug." His neighbor, Ed Matson, had just bought one. Foolish, of course. He wouldn't think of it himself. Oh, maybe in a year or two, if crops were good. But Mr. Wright's conclusion was cut short by a raucous honk that sent both men scurrying to the porch. HE topic of automobiles had also invaded the kitchen. As she whipped the potatoes, Mrs. Wright kept up a sprightly flow of chatter about the Matsons and their new automobile. Dropping her voice to a whisper, she confided to Mamma that she was worried... Worried about her husband who was showing strong symptoms of "automobile fever." He was a good man, but men were men, and you couldn't tell. "Come on, you women," boomed Mr. Wright from the parlor, "or you'll miss this one." Mrs. Wnght dropped the potato masher, and with Mamma rushed to the porch. We could hardly bear to leave that exciting spot. We took a back road home, since Papa decided the longest way round might be the safest. Jouncing over this littletraveled road, our new carriage didn't ride quite so smoothly, but CHRISTENING THE NEW CARRIAGE we children chattered excitedly about those whizzing automobiles we had seen. Would we ever, ever ride in one, or wear one of those glamorous veils, we wondered? Papa might have been wondering a little, too. He held the reins 263 loosely, looking straight ahead with no comments on the corn we passed. Only now and then he'd speak, and when he did, it was to say something about automobiles. As yet, our new car was only a gleam in his eye, but the gleam was there.