MISCELLANEOUS.

	The soul is the fountain of love.—Amlieus.

	It is impossible to be a hero in anything un-
less one is a hero in faith.—J. G. Jacobi.

	Old men who have loved young company,
and been conversant continually with them,
have been of long life.—Lord Bacon.


The world is full of poetry; the air is living 
with its spirit, and the waves dance to the
music of its melodies.—J. G Percival.

	A passion for flowers is, I really think, the
only one which long sickness leaves untouched
with its chilling influence.—Mrs. Hemans.

	Wealth is a weak anchor, and glory cannot
support a man; this is the law of God, that
virtue only is firm, and cannot be shaken by a
tempest.—Pythagoras.

	Unless a variety of opinions are laid before
us, we have no opportunity of selection; the
purity of gold cannot be ascertained by a
single specimen.—Herodotus.

	We account the scriptures of God to be the
most sublime philosophy; I find more sure
marks of authenticity in the bible than in any
profane history whatever.—Sir I. Newton.

	The charities of life are scattered every-
where, enameling the vales of human beings
as the flowers paint the meadows; they are not
the fruit of study, nor the privilege of refine-
ment, but a natural instinct.—G Bancroft.

	There are two modes of establishing our re-
putation; to be praised by honest men, and to
be abused by rogues; it is best, however, to
secure the former, because it will be invariably
accompanied by the latter.—Colton.

	Heaven and God are best discerned through
tears; scarcely perhaps are discerned without
them. The constant association of prayer with
the hour of bereavement and the scenes of
death suffices to show this.—James Martineau.

	When you have made a mistake don't look
back at it long. Take the reason of the thing 
into  your mind, and then look forward. Mis-
takes are lessons of wisdom. The past cannot
be changed. The future is yet in your power.
—Hugh White.


﻿To all it is not granted to live long, but
each man has the power to live well. It is not
days, but deeds that measure life; the wicked
perish e’en before they die, the faithful though
departed live always.—After Seneca.


