THE ALLOWANCE.
    
	There are few ways in which wives are made
more uncomfortable than on the question of
their personal expenditures, nor for which they
have to suffer greater humiliation.
	If they want a new dress, a pair of gloves, a
new pair of shoes, a ribbon, they must go and
enter into an explanation about it all with the
husband and very possibly before the children,
who cannot but be injured by the lesson they
thus learn concerning the dependence of their 
mother, not to mention her fallibility, which is
apt to be tolerably well exposed in the course 
of the conversation.
	Nothing, surely, can so belittle a wife, and
make her unfit to be the mate and helpmate
she should be, as to dwarf and crowd her into
cowardly suppliance for the things she fells she
must have and cannot do without.  We have
known of women whose proud spirits were so 
hurt by the ordeal, that they have worn 
their shoes to the ground and have turned and
scoured and pieced and "made over" for years,
while looking like shabby genteel beggars,
rather than ask for their right and due, while
their husbands never gave a thought to the
matter as long as they heard no complaints;
and as for themselves, wore the best the tailors
could give them; and we have known other
women who determined, after sore experience,
neither to go without nor beg, lay in wait to
rob their husband's pockets of a half dollar
this week, and a quarter that, making false
entries in the housekeeping accounts, and even
stealing and selling the hen's eggs to swell the
secret amount into a sum sufficient to keep them-
selves' and their children's supply decent, be-
coming thieves in the process, and liable to
transmit the tendency to dishonest dealings to 
children born after the habit was formed, owing
to the penury or distrust of their husbands.
	If a man is really poor, and is struggling
hard to keep his head above water, he has
some justification; but if his wife is worthy of
the name of wife at all, even then she will do
better for being trusted in the matter and not
having to run to him for every spool of
cotton.
	It was early in the power of the fathers of
these wives to have obviated, to some extent,
the difficulties of this nature, which were to

[Column 2]
surround their daughters later in life.  If, as
soon as the girls left school, the father, with
the advice and supervision of the mother, gave
to her a fixed sum, out of which, with no more,
she was to furnish her wardrobe, by the time of
marriage she would have learned perfectly how
to spend money and how to get the most for it,
and her lover would be pretty sure to have
information of the fact and be able to govern
himself accordingly, and either maintaining
the same or increasing or diminishing it as his
income required, could still have recognized
the fact, and left her that little but necessary
independence which her own purse gives every
woman.
	The wife and mother does not work for her-
self alone, but toils unceasingly for others, and
she is entitled to some other wage than love
and kindness; for what is it she does? In many
houses the wife is the only servant; she is cook,
maid-of-all-work, nurse and seamstress; she is
tailoress for the boys' trowsers, milliner for the
girls' hats; ten to one makes, if she does not
also cut and baste, their frocks; and in any one 
of these capacities it is universally recognized
for every other worker, that the laborer is
worthy of his hire.  As cook or mere char
woman, her wages would be more than a hun-
dred dollars a year with board; as nurse or
seamstress, even more, while neither tailoress or
dressmaker would have much less than a dollar
a day.  And, meanwhile, we pass over her
general management, marketing, mending,
darning, overseeing and all the rest, because
there the wages of love may be deemed suffi-
cient, and doubtless she feels them so for all,
and when she asks, it is not so much for her-
self as for the sake of maintaining the decency,
good name and good appearance, which would
be to the shame if she did not have.
	We think that husband who has any certainty
of income would do well to take into considera-
tion the subject of his wife's wages, and see if
he cannot accord to her the spending of one
unquestioned dollar, and then make, according
to his ability, some fixed allowance of money,
be it ever so small, on which the wife can rely,
and over which she can be absolute mistress.
There is not one wife in ten thousand that will
abuse the pleasant confidence; and all but that
one, will be likely to make it cover some of the
childrens' and some of the family expenses, as
well as their own; and it can be done at first
provisionally for one year or two, so that in
case it did not work well a return to the old
system of dependence and petition could be 
had.  We can hardly, however, think of a
case where it would not work well.  WIthout
doubt, any head of a house would find his ad-
vantage in this course, in the character it
would give his household, in the happy sense
of responsibility it would give his wife, and in
the relief from requests and advice in small
things which it would give himself.
	If he improved his wife, as thus he could
hardly help doing, he would be improving the
conduct of all his family and increasing the
harmony of his household.
	In the meantime, let him remember that
the wrongs done the mother, nature avenges in
the children, and where even in so small a 
matter as her clothes, that mother is a slave
and a beggar, the children are the children of
a slave and a beggar, and sooner or later are
sure to betray their descent.—Selected.


