WOMEN IN THE GRANGE AND WOMEN AS 
				FARMERS.
	As all the world knows, Utah was once a
vast desert, and the first thing for the pioneers
to do was to build homes and cultivate the
earth, that the necessaries of life might be
provided; in those days, with no railroads, no
roads of any kind, save the one trail marked
by their own tired oxen and worn out wagons,
it was impossible to obtain supplies from any
source than the earth, where their homes were
chosen.  So, all the settlers became farmers,
and as new comers were yearly arriving, and
the farms in Salt Lake valley grew, families
spread out in other directions and began sub-
duing the soil in other valleys, toiling unceas-
ingly, until now nearly the whole Territory is
covered with farms and homesteads. We have
all from earliest infancy heard of the Pilgrim
Fathers, and after considerable time and reason-
ing the world acknowledges that we also had
Pilgrim mothers. It is a well known fact
whenever there is work to do the women—
wives and mothers—stand by and aid the men
—husbands and fathers. It is perfectly
right that they should, and we always find they
are pretty welcome, too. No one doubts that
the Pilgrim mothers helped with the clearing,
the planting, the tending, though their names
have not been handed down the ages as the
first great settlers of the old bay state. It
used to be enough to mention the men, but
sometimes the father and husband dies, and the
woman has her own home to make, and the
day is fast approaching when woman's name
will also be hurled down the ages, and her
praises sung in different climes. Here, in this
far off west, we claim Pioneer Fathers and
Pioneer mothers, too, who might have had for
their motto the beautiful words which the
Rev. Annie H. Shaw addressed to the young
women in her Sunday sermon— "If you have a
bit of Truth, hold fast to that which God has
given you; let no power, no injustice, no ob-
stacle, no scorn, no opposition, let nothing ex-
tinguish this flame.”  Against all opposition,
all persecution, all persuasion, these mothers
held fast to the "bit of Truth” that God had
given them; with their husbands and fathers

[Column 3]
they braved the perils and trials of the great
desert journey, and in these valleys have toiled
hard and long, building homes and cultivating
the earth, and now when the valleys are
blossoming and verdant, and these brave,
white-haired women can walk in their own
gardens, gathering fruit and flowers, each one
truly feels that she has been given the fruit of
her hands, and her own works praise her in
the gates. Owing to the Relief Society, there
is no particular need in Utah of a Grange
Association, as this Society alleviates the
monotony and humdrum of farm life, and
affords those advantages to women in Utah
that the Grange does in other places. Our
women are alive to the necessity of caring for
the grain, and have a separate organization for
that purpose; they at present are the owners
of many well stored granaries. 
		WOMEN IN EDUCATION.
Among the first company, the pioneers, were
only three women—Clara Decker Young,
Ellen Sanders Kimball and Harriet P. Wheeler
Young—whose names should ever be remem-
bered and claim a glorious place in every page
relating to the early history of Utah. There
were no children; but the September following
five hundred families arrived. In the south 
western division of Salt Lake City remains
now a single ten acre square, without building
or improvement of any kind save a garden and
the gardener’s lodge; this square is familiarly,
known as “The Old Fort;” here were the first
homes, rude log walls surrounding the entire
square, secure and plain, the doors and win-
dows facing an inner courtyard, the outer walls
without opening or ornament of any sort, in
this way protecting the dwellers from wolves
and other wild things with which the country
then abounded. Simultaneously with the
constructing of homes, the subduing of lands,
began educational work in Utah; it was like
all things else a difficult and rather unpleasant
undertaking, as there were so few conveniences;
but it became the task of a noble and bright
young woman—Mary Jane Dilworth, afterward
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond—to collect in
her brother-in-law’s tent, even before the houses
were built, and instruct the children who were
playing away the sunny hours in the court-
yard of The Old Fort. This was the first
school in Utah, and the first school teacher
was a woman. This same Mrs. Hammond,
nee Miss Dilworth, in 1849 accompanied her
husband to the Sandwich Islands, and there
gathered around her the native children, teach-
ing the first English school in Laie. Return-
ing again to Utah, she became a pioneer in
settling other parts of the Territory, and
opened in three different places the first school.
Her Sister, Mrs. Rebecca Riter, in speaking of
her work, very touchingly says, “She was in-
deed a pioneer in all her movements after ally-
ing herself with the Church, in teaching, in
helping to settle new countries, in the mission-
ary field, in philanthropy, and even in her
burial, being the first person laid away in the
new graveyard at Huntsville.”
	As other companies of children arrived in
the valleys and the people spread out in other
directions, other schools were started, and the
demand for teachers became greater. Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, our editor, pleasingly tells
of a little school of 65 kept by herself in
1851-2 in a log building in the upper part of
the city; how without desks, charts, black


[Column 1]
boards, or scarcely two books of the same kind,
she toiled as an instructress. The task was
not so easy then as now, when we have all the
modern appliances for school rooms, and large,
comfortable, airy buildings. The remunera-
tion was likewise trying, one bringing a piece
of salt pork, another a bucket of flour, a third
perhaps a skein of yarn, to repay the ever toil-
some task of school teaching; the work was
unceasing; the day spent in the school room
and the night in planning and working for the
morrow, whole nights being spent in cutting
fancy paper patterns and writing thereon verses
of her own composition, in blue ink, and
working on bits of card-board, mottoes in vari-
ous colored silks for rewards, to urge the
children to diligence and good behavior. This
is but a sample of the work school teachers
had in those days; it is amusing now, but was
trying then. Since the first winter, when Miss
Dilworth opened the little school in the Old
Fort, there has ever been a school, and a woman
teacher in Utah. Here, as throughout the
west, co-education has always existed. The
University and all the schools, district and
Church, barring, of course, the Catholic, ad-
mitting to all departments women as well as
men, and as educators, women have almost the
same advantages as men. The Territorial
University has but once in its long history
boasted a woman teacher, notwithstanding the
graduates from the normal department average
very nearly equal, there being from the years
1876 to 1888, eighty-five female and one hun-
dred and twenty-eight male graduates, certain-
ly a fair showing in an institution controlled
throughout by men. Then, as in all other
things, the wages are less (women, you know,
don’t require as much as men), if they do men
don’t think so, and we have not yet any women
trustees. The average salary per month for
teachers the past year was, males, $46-85
and females, $26-70. The total num-
ber of schools in the Territory, primary,
intermediate and mixed, was 467; the number
of teachers, 561, with 60 assistants; out of this
number 258 were women teachers, and 48 as-
sistant women teachers, giving the men the
small majority of nine.
Women have certainly done a great deal in
advancing education in Utah; to the Misses
Cook, Mary and Ida, is due the grading of
schools; this would doubtless have been done
had they not come, but not so early. When
they opened in the Social Hall of Salt Lake
City a common school, they found a sad mix-
ture of books among their pupils, some far ad-
vanced in one study and far behind in others,
no order, no uniformity, no regular books, and
they had quite a struggle to grade their school
properly, the pupils rebelling against such an
unheard of system. I remember very well how
I cried when Miss Cook placed me way down
in the second reader, for I was one of the very
best readers in school, read so well that my
previous teacher had allowed me to skip the
third reader altogether, and I read now in the
National Fifth. This was my argument, and
I ventured to prove it by reading something
very hard for her benefit, and as for geography,
why I was always head, but, alas! for arithme-
tic, that was the point on which we were to be
graded, and, well, compound numbers was my
highest limit, and Miss Cook thought “it
wouldn’t hurt me to begin at the beginning.”
Tears and arguments were alike unavailing;
the school had to be graded, and our knowledge
of arithmetic told where we ought to be. How
we “hated” it then, but as the school assumed
that order and uniformity obtainable only in a
well graded system, even, the pupils began to
admire it and work more diligently in all
studies, not slighting one for another more
pleasant and easy. Miss Cook’s school became 
an example, and the Territorial Superintend-
ent, then Robert L. Campbell, began grading 

[Column 2]
the district schools, frequently calling on Miss
Cook for advice and assistance. There were a 
few, some eighteen or twenty, as fine teachers 
as Utah can boast trained under Miss Mary 
Cook. Miss Ida's work, after leaving the 
University, where she was one year principal,
has been mostly confined to Cache Valley.
She held for some years the position of principal 
of the Brigham Young College, the largest 
school in northern Utah, and was elected to 
the office of school superintendent for Cache 
County, but owing to existing laws against 
women holding office was not allowed to act; 
the word male in the organic act prohibiting 
women as teachers from occupying positions of
emolument and trust. Where women have 
the greatest success is among the children, 
and there they should claim the entire con-
trol. 
The Kindergarten has been very gladly re-
ceived wherever it has been started, but it has 
not yet extended far in the Territory. If 
more of the young women teachers would 
spend some time in learning the method and 
introduce it in their schools they would not 
only afford themselves much pleasure, the 
little ones much happiness, but would gladden 
the hearts of the mothers as well. Some of 
the different church schools have a Kinder-
garten department, and Miss Dickey,  of the
Presbyterian school, herself a student of 
Baroness Maronholtz Beulow, the friend and 
pupil of Froebel, has trained some few teachers, 
who now keep most successful and interesting 
Kindergartens in different parts of the city. 
Such a delightful and pleasing thing ought to 
grow most rapidly in a community which
boasts so many beautiful and bright children.
We have, it is true, the Primary Association 
for the children, which in the prettiest possible 
way instils into the little hearts bright truths,
instructs the little hands to do nice work, and 
fills the little souls with happy thoughts; busy
little working bees, indeed, are the children of 
the Primary; but these Associations are held
but once a week, and the remainder of the 
time the little ones are not very much em-
ployed, unless, indeed, they are old enough for 
the district schools. If to each district school 
a Kindergarten might be attached, it would 
certainly be a great benefit to the community.


