OBITUARY.

	We are called upon to mourn and record the death of
our beloved sister, Eliza Ann Snyder Haight, who de-
parted this life in Cedar City, May 24th, 1888, at 2 p.m.,
after a lingering illness of over three months. Sister Haight
was born October 22nd, 1815, in the Town of Sempronius,
Cayuga County, State of New York, and was married to
Isaac Chancy Haight in the early part of 1837, to whom
she bore seven children, four of whom survive, two sons
and two daughters. In 1838 she with her husband received
the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and were baptized at the same time by
Elder Peltiah Brown, after which their house became a
home for the Elders in their travels to and fro with the
message of salvation, and in the beginning of the year
1839 they moved with their llttle daugther Caroline, who
was a little over a year old to Nauvoo, Illinois, where
they met with the Lord's Prophet, Joseph Smith, with
whom they soon formed an acquaintance, and about whom
Sister Haight delighted to talk. They remained in Nauvoo
during the persecution, and left with the exodus of the
Saints in 1846, landing at Winter Quarters, making it their
home till 1847, when they crossed the plains with Presi-
dent Brigham Young and company, and located in Salt
Lake City. In 1853 the family moved to Cedar City, Iron
Co., where Sister Haight has since made her home. She
was a firm advocate of the principle of celestial marriage,
and lived in it since 1849. She waa a true and faithful
wife and mother. A few days before her departure she
called her children and grandchildren together, and after
kissing and blessing each one, she admonished them all to


be faithful and true to God and His cause, tears of peni-	
tence and joy visible on every hand. Sister Haight was
greatly loved and respected by her acquaintances and
relatives. We do not mourn as those without hope, but
we will miss her loving counsels, her happy face and cheery 
voice. God bless her forevermore; she has gone to receive
a crown she has faithfully waited for.
	With feelings of respect,
			Your sister in the covenant,
