I WILL ANSWER FOR MY PEOPLE.
"I will answer for my people" was the virgin monarch's
	boast,
When flatterers bade her guard her life amid her armed.
	host.
"My throne is based on England's love, or her crown
	would worthless be;
And my sceptre well might tremble were its guardian—
	Tyrrany."
'Twas well, heroic maiden, that eagle glance of yore,
And well the grovelling sycophant might quail such tones
	before;
Yet I have heard a loftier tone, a nobler glance I've seen,
Than e'er decked earthborn majesty, or graced a courtly
	scene.

"I will answer for the people in danger's darkest hour,
I will answer for the people against each hostile power;
I will answer for the people, for their every care is mine,
And I ask no odds of mortal foe, my mission is divine."

Such were the sounds that thrilled around when Zion's
	Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him would bleed for his
	repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more than kingly,
	when
From all that vast assembly came as from one soul—Amen.

Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook another’s sway
Until His voice shall will it so, whose word all Saints obey

		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			We do not name thee King,
		We wreathe no brilliants, for thy brow,
			No ermine round thee fling,
		And thou art crowned, but with the light
			That gilds the throne above;
		Thy lofty spirit's wealth of power,
			Thy people's clinging love.
	
		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			Thy cheek would flush to hear
		Earth's titles woven with thy name,
			And whispered in thine ear,
		As well presume to gild the sun.
			Or paint earth's brightest flowers;
		We only call thee Brigham Young,
			We only call thee ours.

		We do not call thee Chieftain
			Let golden crowns be wrought
		For brows unhallowed by the touch
			Of soul ennobling thought,
		But thou—the purest, holiest prayer
			To listening angels flung,
		Is whispered when thy people breathe
			The name of Brigham Young.
						SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
Bowery, August 8, 1857.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
		THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
				PART I.
	At the recent Woman’s Jubilee, held in
Washington, lengthy, complete and interesting
papers relating to women in almost every
sphere and walk in life were read. A perusal
of these papers naturally forces one to consider
the relative advancement of women in a single
community; and we doubt if any one com-
munity can excel Utah in this respect. In
comparing woman’s work in Utah, with
woman’s work in other lands, it is only just to
first of all mention the Relief Society, as the

[Column 2]
greater degree of woman’s progress in this
Territory is due to this organization, yet we do
not forget there are other societies of women
here, and take great pleasure in presenting to
our readers a brief report of their aims and
works.
	It is now forty years since the first
convention of women was held at Seneca
Falls, N. Y., and the first organization of
Mormon women has a much earlier date,
but it is not our intention to dwell on
this organization, for it is already fa-
miliar with the readers of the  Exponent,
scarcely a number appearing which does not
contain reports from these societies—their
organizations and reunions—for wherever a
sufficient number of Saints are, there one is
sure to find a Relief Society helping to build
up and strengthen the community.
	The first subject discussed at the Washington
Convention was philanthropies, the one great
and almost inexhaustible subject for the women
of Utah, for as philanthropists are they best
known. It is better, however, to arrange our
topics as they grew, and therefore first consider
the subjects discussed by Anna M. Worden
and Esther L. Warner.
 
