DEAR EDITOR:
	It gives me great pleasure to have the oppor-
tunity, sometimes, of reading your paper, and
in perusing the different articles concerning
many of our people.


If we, as young sisters, would read more of
the Bible and other Church works, we would
become better acquainted with the principles 
of the Gospel, then we would be able to answer
any question which might be asked of us.
*	*	*	Some of us may think
we study a great deal now, but I don’t think
we can study too much of the principles of
the Gospel.	
	In standing up before a congregation to
occupy a few moments, we naturally feel timid,
but the more we speak the more of that fear
goes from us. If we ask the Lord to help us
before we get up, He will do so, because we
cannot get along without the help of the Lord
at all times. He says if we will open our
mouth He will fill it. And why should we
be afraid to get up to speak? When some of
us are called on to sing or recite we sometimes
think, “Well, why didn’t they call on some one
that could do it better?” If we all were like
that, what would become of our meetings or
the young people of the Church.
	I remember when we first had an organiza-
tion of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve- 
ment Association, the President would call on
us to do something to take up the time; call on
one, “Well, I never sung, I know I can’t.” It
seems as though no one was interested in the
meeting. But we all know that the president
nor her counselors cannot carry on the meet-
ing alone, and if we know this, why not try 
and help them?	
	I can say that the sisters have improved
very much since the commencement of our
meetings; those who do come take right hold
and help all they can. That is some encourage-
ment for those who are presiding. If we can
only say two or three words, that is far better
than refusing. I notice in our meetings it is
very seldom any one refuses to respond; we
know a week ahead that our names are on the
programme, and why is that not time enough
for us to study our subject?
	The meeting will not improve us unless we
try and improve ourselves; if we get up from
time to time, and do not try to say a few words
more each time, I don’t think we will ever be
able to do so.
	Let us try and set an example for the younger
ones; if they think it is worthy of imitation
they will certainly take notice of our actions.
*	*	*	 We are doing as well
up here as can be expected according to the
number there is left, as the town has almost
gone away. We have twenty-two members
enrolled in the Young Ladies’ Association, and
about ten attending; one half does the work,
and the other half are quite willing to let
them do it.
	For one I feel like going forward and doing
the best I can to help others and improve
myself. 
	Your young and inexperienced sister in the
Gospel, 
