				F. AMELIA PICKETT, Coun.


[Column 1]
EGYPTIAN WOMEN.
BY CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR.
No 7.
SCHOOLS AND EDUCATION.
	There are in Egypt governmental schools,
colleges, and universities for boys, Coptic
schools, and schools of religious and benevolent
societies.  At Cairo and Alexandria they are
large and well situated.  The sons and daughters
of poor foreigners attend them, and make
creditable progress.  The short time girls may
attend school, does not permit them to get
much beyond reading and sewing.  The large,
free university of El Azhar, at Cairo, has a
woman’s department for midwifery attached to
the medical school, not because the State desires
to educate women, but because the religion of
the country excludes male physicians from the
harem, except in unusual cases.  In some of
the larger towns along the river, small schools
for boys are taught by Greek priests and
Catholic monks.  Comparatively few girls at-
tend school; there is a deep seated prejudice
against their reading and understanding num-
bers, and it is considered immoral for them to
sit under a roof with strange boys, though they
may play with them out of doors.  If the girl
can read, she will not wish to bring the water,
drive the buffalo to the river, grind the doorra;
she will not work; she will be like the boy.
These reasons were many times given us by
men and boys who were opposed to the educa-
tion of girls.
	We were much interested in the mission
schools.  The American mission in its eleven
schools and colleges, teaches an average attend-
ance of 1,350 pupils, at an annual cost of
$8,000 dollars; in its six girl schools, with an
average attendance of 630, the cost of instruc-

[Column 2]
tion is but $2,600, or about $4 per girl.  Of
the 1,400 girls enrolled; 10 study physiology,
112 Arabic, 116 geography, 111 French, 248
arithmetic and the American language.  More
than fifty other independent schools scattered
all over Egypt, have grown up under the en-
couragement of the mission and are taught by
graduates of its schools.  In these an average
attendance of more than 2,000 schollars, 300
being girls, are taught at a yearly cost of $6,000.
At Assyoot our consular agent, M. Khayatt,
an Egyptian, besides supporting a school of
200 girls and boys, gives liberally to the college
and schools of the American mission.  Miss
Thompson, the superintendent teacher of the
mission schools, of Cairo, for girls, has given
us another evidence of womanly energy and
unselfish capacity.  Miss Whately has for
several years carried on a girl’s school and
earned the encomiums of her English patrons.
At the school in Luxor, we find girls in the
first class reading Peter Parley; one of them
has recently married the native teacher.  I
made every effort possible to learn the compara-
tive condition of women and girls, and my
questions to priests, consuls, town officers and
teachers as to the place they assigned to my
side of humanity, gave much amusement to my
sons and daughters.
	Among those who are doing good to the
people and educating the children, I make most
honorable mention of Pere Samuel, a Neapolitan
priest, who has spent more than twenty years
in Upper Egypt.  He has given of his time
and means to the sick and needy of every class
and sect, without stint or reward.  On our re-
turn voyage we anchored at the village of
Negadeh and spent an afternoon with the old
man in his church and garden.  We found the
church clean and cool.  More than forty years
ago he built it, a worthy work of architecture
and finish.  A Belgian lady has given him a
parlor organ, and he is organist and choir as
well as priest.  There are fine bits of old tem-
ples built into the doors and pillars, which he
shows with pride.  He said that women came
to church and were more than half his congre-
gation.  He led us to his school of seventy little
better-size boys, and three little girls. The
boys were writing on tin slates; some of the
texts were in Coptic.  The Pere told us that he
read the service in Latin, Arabic, and Coptic,
and was teaching the Copt boys the language of
their service, that they might pray intelligently.
Mr. Wilbour asked if he had ever converted
Muslims; he was quite radiant as he replied:
“I have baptized 42 Muslims in my 50 years
of service.” He said that before the British
occupation he had a school of 50 girls, but
donations failed after that began; he had to
give up with much regret, and feared that he
could never re-open it.  He resignedly added:
“But that must always be, the girls after the
boys.” Our sailors who knew him, spoke of
him as a saint who in time of epidemics, went
fearlessly among the dying and the dead, and
did his duty by all in suffering.  Grand old
man, when the work falls from his willing hands,
who shall take it up?
	We visited Muslim schools without satisfac-
tion, except to our curiosity.  Let me tell you
what I saw in one at Luxor.  The school was
found under a cornstock shed, open on one
side.  When we entered, a lively boy ran to
an elevated divan at one end of the shed, and
shouted up to the master, who was lying on the
divan with a pillow under his head.  He sat
up and looked at us with soft, dreamy eyes,
but did not recognize our salutation, though
twice repeated.  Not a ray of intelligence
passed over his handsome face; we were em-
barrassed, and eighty little faces turned toward
us in sympathy.  My daughter beckoned to
the lively lad, who came to us, and asked that
the boys might repeat a prayer from the Koran.
The monitor gave the command to the school,
and the slates were laid down and the recita-


tion began in a low voice, which grew louder
and louder every moment till the little half-
naked brown bodies rocked to and fro as
though intoxicated.  When the recitation was
over, we walked about and looked at the slates,
at the babies crowded up in a dirty corner,
made our obeisance to the statue of the Sleepy
God on the divan, and as we went out, he fell
back upon his pillow.
     In most of the Coptic and Muslim schools,
children learn a little arithmetic, reading and
writing, and some passages of the Scripture or
the Koran.  Many slaves attend the religious
and mission schools, and are often far better
educated than their masters, who take great
pride in their learning.  Copts are as frequently
sent to the mission schools as to their own, and
are very clever and intelligent.  At Cairo there is
a boarding school for girls, conducted by nuns,
where many girls spend a year, or attend as
day scholars.  In the families of the rich, a
foreign governess is employed, who teaches
French and needle-work; but girls are seldom
taught to write, as they might make an im-
proper use of their knowledge.  Teachers
agree that girls do not keep up their reading
after they leave school; the books loaned them
are often returned with the leaves uncut.  But
there have been and are some well-educated
Muslim women in the higher classes; they are
counted particularly dangerous and their ex-
ample pernicious.


