SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	-	June 1, 1888.


[Column 1]	
	MANTI TEMPLE DEDICATION.
	The dedication of the Temple at Manti in 
Sanpete Co., on the 21st day of May, 1888, was
one of the greatest events in the history of the 
Church.  The Temple itself is the grandest one 
yet built in this dispensation, and standing, as it 
does, in the side of the mountain, which has been
partly cut away, that this house of the Lord might
be established there, gives it a prestige which no
other Temple has, and the terrace work below 
adds grandeur to the surroundings, and gives to 
this superb edifice a very imposing appearance.
	In the early morning of the day of the dedica-
tion, hundreds of people were gathered at the 
east entrance of the Temple waiting for the open-
ing of the doors, that they might enter into that
sacred place.  One could not help feeling before-
hand the importance of so great an occasion, and
to be peculiarly impressed with its solemnity and
significance.  It was calculated to make the
thoughtful look backward to the ages long past,
when the ancient people of Israel builded temples
unto the Most High, and recall the events recorded
in history of the Lord's dealings with them from
time to time, and to awaken in the mind many
lofty and inspiring themes, both of the past and
present.  The Latter-day Saints have been taught
much concerning the objects to be accomplished 
and the ordinances to be performed for the living
and for the dead in Temples, and it fills the
human soul with the most sacred and heavenly 
emotions to contemplate these wondrous subjects,
revealed only through prophets and men of God
to those who are willing to render obedience to
divine laws and commands.  It would be a diffi-
cult task, indeed, to attempt to portray in words
the sentiments and emotions that thrilled the
hearts of the Latter-day Saints on the memorable
occasion of the Temple dedication at Manti, even
before they entered the doors.  Looking about on 
that assemblage of people, flocking around the
archways and doors of the building, and remem-
bering who they were, gathered from many
nations, one of a family and two of a city, and
now coming up to the House of the Lord in the
tops of the mountains, for such, indeed, it seemed,
these, and a thousand other thoughts, upon kin-
dred topics, passed quickly through the mind;
and even there one could easily fancy that the
spirits of the departed hovered near, waiting for 
the demonstrations, that were to herald the work
to be done for them in this holy Temple.
	The bands were playing in the distance, and
the music floating out in the clear morning air
arose like an orison to heaven, but above all
earthly sounds, and far more deep and inspirational,
was the whispering of the still small voice, that
thrilled every pulse and throbbed in every vein.
It was as though one stood in a holy presence of
which the soul was conscious.
	At ten o'clock precisely the doors were opened,
and very soon the hall of the Temple was filled.

[Column 2]
At the East side of the hall are the stands for the
presiding officers of the Melchisedek priesthood
in their order, and on the West side are the
stands for the presiding officers of the Aaronic 
priesthood.  In these stands the brethren were
seated according to their rank in office.
	In front of the stands, at the East side of the
hall, were the music stands, the organ and the 
choir.
	The dedicatory services—Apostle Lorenzo
Snow presiding—commenced by the choir singing
the good old hymn, so appropriate for the opening
of an impressive service:
	"Lord, we come before Thee now,
	At Thy feet we humbly bow."
     Apostle Lorenzo Snow then explained that at
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple a prayer,
which was given by revelation to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, was read, and said that one of the
servants of God in this day had been inspired to
write the dedicatory prayer for this occasion.
Apostle Snow then read in an effective manner
the prayer which had been given, while that vast
concourse of people bowed their heads in reverence
to the Most High, unto whom the house was dedi-
cated, in every part and portion thereof, in the 
purest and most sublime language.  At the close
of the prayer the choir sang the dedication hymn
—with a chorus, written expressly for the occasion,
by Charles Walker, of St. George—beginning:
	"Righteous God, th' Eternal Father."
	The first speaker was Patriarch John Smith.
He spoke of having been present at the dedica-
tion of the Temple in Kirtland, though only a 
child at the time, and that he had attended the
dedication of the several Temples that had been
built since that time.  Testified, also, to the truth
of the Gospel, and felt confident if the Saints
would live in obedience to the laws of God no
power should prevail against them.
	Apostle John Henry Smith was the next
speaker; spoke very feelingly of the promises of
the Almighty to His faithful children, and closed
by earnestly exhorting all present to be faithful to 
their trust.
	President John Morgan, who followed, in the
course of his remarks said he regarded the
present sight as a fulfillment of the prophecy made 
more than 2,500 years ago, that the mountain of
the Lord's house should be established in the tops
of the mountains, and that all nations should flow
unto it. The thought that friends who were dead 
were looking forth from the portals of eternity
with anxiety for the living to perform a work in 
their behalf, should be sufficient to stimulate
any one to be faithful and perform that labor
when the opportunity was afforded.
	President Jacob Gates bore a strong testimony
to the mission of Joseph Smith as a Prophet of
God, and to whom had been revealed the knowl-
edge which had been obtained of building 
Temples.
	Elder J. D. C. Young referred to his mother's
teachings, and the early impressions he received
from her; rejoiced in the building of Temples and
in contemplating the ordinances which were to be
performed in these sacred places.
	Elder Wm. F. Cahoon had attended the dedica-
tion of all the Temples that had been built in this
dispensation, except St. George.  Testified of 
the truth of "Mormonism," so called; had lived
in Joseph Smith's family in former days, and
knew him to be inspired of the Lord.  He was
baptized on the 16th of October, 1830, the year 
the Church was organized.  It was made known
to him before he was baptized that the Book of
Mormon was true, and an inspired record.
	Elder Robert Campbell felt, in contemplation of 
the history of the Church in the past and at the
present time, to exclaim, "What hath God
wrought?"  He felt positive if the Saints would
labor in union in establishing the work of God, no
power could shake them.

[Column 3]
    	Apostle John W. Taylor said he knew little of
his ancestry, but hoped to receive knowledge 
from God of those who had passed away without
knowing of the Gospel.  Spoke of a visit he had
from his brother, David John, after his death,
when he had a long conversation with him;
thought if he could have that privilege again he
could obtain much information that he desired
concerning those of whom he was now in ignor-
ance.  Related in a very impressive manner a 
dream or vision which was given him previous to
the funeral of President Young; had seen the 
whole procession, etc., in a panoramic view, and
had the characters of persons who took part 
therein portrayed to him by Brigham Young, and
that which would be their future.  Afterwards
saw the funeral in reality just as he had seen it in
vision, and the very persons that had previously 
been pointed out in the vision.  The recital was
very thrilling.
     President A. O. Smoot said, he could declare
of a truth that the Lord had accepted of the Tem-
ple, and that many thousands would have cause 
to rejoice over their deliverance through the
work therein performed.  Knew the Church
when it included but one small Stake; had
a testimony that the Lord was with Zion and 
that it would not be removed out of its place; had
never doubted or feared for the triumph of the
work for the fifty-three years past, felt assured the
time was near at hand when the promises concern-
ing the redemption of Zion would be fulfilled.
This was a blessed land and God would protect
His people if they would be faithful.  Testified
that he had heard Joseph and Brigham say,
"There would be hundreds and hundreds of tem-
ples built in this land.  "This people would grow
stronger and increase with persecution.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said his heart was full
of thanksgiving for the precious opportunity
afforded him.  The things which were from 
above were sacred and were to be spoken by con-
straint of the spirit.  On the third of next month
it would be fifty years since he embraced the truth.
Received a testimony on his way from his home
in New England to Missouri which effectually
satisfied him of the truth of the Gospel and the divin-
ity of the Prophet's calling.  To-day in the temple
were assembled representatives of all the quorums
and councils of the Church.  The erecting of
temples was of as much interest to those behind
the veil as to the living.  Ever since the site of
the temple had been selected the spirits of the de-
parted had watched with anxiety for its comple-
tion.  The magnitude of the work could be con-
ceived by a simple calculation for a few genera-
tions of one's ancestors.	*	*	*	*
	It was consistent to believe that upon an occa-
sion like the present the spirits of the faithful proph-
ets and apostles who had died should be present.
Urged the performance of ordinances for those
who had gone, and thought those who failed to do
what they could in this direction would be filled
with regret when they met their friends behind the
veil, and wish for another year upon the earth to
devote to the work.  Was but a youth in his
'teens when he became acquainted with Joseph
Smith, but knew him to have been a man of God
as also his successors in office.  Could testify that
the present apostles were increasing in knowledge,
devotion to God, and love for the people, and that
the people could safely trust them as their leaders.
Believed that the Lord as well as the spirits of
worthy men who had passed away would come 
and visit the temple and comfort the Saints by
their presence."
	The choir sang the Dedication Anthem, words 
by A. C. Smyth, selected from the prayer of Solo-
mon at the dedication of the temple at Jerusa-
lem: 
	"O Lord my God, hear Thou the prayer
	Thy
	Servant prayeth; have thou respect unto
	His prayer.


[Column 1]
	Hear Thou in Heaven, Thy dwelling place.
	And when Thou hearest, O Lord forgive."
	Amen.
	"President Canute Peterson said the present
was one of the happiest days he had ever experi-
enced.  Could testify that God would be quite as 
willing to accept of the Temple as the brethren
had been to dedicate it.  Believed that the site of
the Temple had been set apart ages before Presi-
dent Young had selected it upon which to erect
the present structure.  Did not believe there was
any chance work about our existence, or the
establishment of the Church and kingdom of
God."
	Elder W. H. Fulsom felt words were inadequate
to express his joy, and pleasure at being present
at the dedication of a Temple.  Had felt at times 
that the sacrifices made by the Saints in this
Temple district were too great; believed that his
life had been prolonged through the blessing of
God in response to a promise received in the St.
George Temple.  Felt to praise and bless and
thank the men who had labored upon the Temple.
Knew that the Temple had been accepted of the
Lord, and that His Spirit was present.
	President D. H. Wells said he had learned to
know God through the Gospel, and that the whole
world was ignorant of that fact until He revealed 
Himself unto His Prophet, Joseph Smith. "Men
existed before the foundations of the earth were
laid, but the knowledge they possessed in their 
former existence had been taken from them, and
the divine knowledge obtained in mortality had
gradually been lost through transgression.  The
ordinances of the Gospel and their object and
order were also unknown until revealed in this
age; and the same with the destiny of man.  The
saying, that no one would be lost except the sons
of perdition, would seem to imply that no woman
would be eternally lost."  Could testify from his
observation, that women, generally, were better
and more virtuous than men.  Invoked the bless-
ing of God upon the congregation.
	Apostle H. J. Grant said he enjoyed for the
first time in his life the privilege of speaking in a
Temple of God.  Nothing afforded him so much
happiness as the consciousness of God's approval
and the testimony which he had of the truth of
His work. Many throughout the world who did
not believe the Gospel were led by curiosity or
pride to compile genealogical works by the hun-
dred, for which they had no use after they were
printed.  In this way they were preparing the
way for the work to be performed in temples by
the Saints of God who were unable to obtain the
information otherwise which was thus afforded
them.  For this he felt to give God the glory.
	The choir sang the hymn of praise:
	Glorious is Thy name Almighty Lord,
	All the angels stand round about Thy throne:
	Let all nations bow before Thee,
	And declare Thy wondrous works.
	We praise Thee, we give thanks to Thee,
	We adore Thee, we glorify Thee.
	Lord, we adore Thee, we bless Thee.
	Lord, we thank Thee for Thy great glory.
	Heaven is Thy throne and earth is Thy footstool,
	Thou art King over all the world.
	Glorious is Thy name, O Lord.
	Blessing, and honor, be to God
	Forever and evermore.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow leading,—the congrega-
tion united in shouting Hosannah to God and the
Lamb, forever and forever, amen.  This was re-
peated three times, after which the benediction
was pronounced by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	At 5 o'clock the same afternoon the children of
the Saints were admitted to the Temple, that
they might behold its beauty.  The little child-
ren have been among those who have given
of their means to assist in its building,
and it seemed such a sweet and appropriate com-
pensation for them to be permitted to visit and ad-
mire the place consecrated to the Lord.

[Column 2]
	The dedicatory services were repeated on Tues-
day and again on Wednesday with some change
of speakers.
	The people of Sanpete have had a rich feast in
the Temple services, and no doubt appreciate it to
a fullness, and feel well repaid for their sacrifices
in building a house unto the Lord.  President Peter-
son and his Counselors, and Supt. W. H. 
Fulsom are happy now in the realization of their
most sanguine expectations in the completion and
dedication of the sacred edifice for which they
have labored so indefatigably and untiringly.  But
there is still work to be done in finishing the
grounds that will take much time and considerable
means to accomplish.  The Saints who are inter-
ested in the Temple will still have ample oppor-
tunity to give of their means that the surroundings
may correspond in fitness of appearance and sol-
idity to the splendid structure itself.  Truly there
is a joy and satisfaction in the building of Tem-
ples and dedicating them to the Most High.


