EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Sister Susan Kent Greene departed this life,
April 17,1888, at her home,in Marion,Cassia Co.,
Idaho, after an illness of thirteen days.
     She was buried on the 19th; a procession fol-
lowed the remains from the residence to the
Oakley Hall, where the services were held
at 2 p.m., Stake President H. D. Haight presid-
ing.  The choir sang the hymn, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Prayer by Bro. D. P.


Curtis.  Singing, "O, my Father, Thou that
dwellest."  The friends and relatives assembled
were addressed in a most consoling manner by
Brothers Moroni Pickett, Robert Wilson and
O. P. Bates.  Choir sang, "Farewell, all earthly
honors."  At the burying ground the dedicatory
prayer was offered by Bro. Cyrus Tolman.
	Sister Greene was entirely confined to the house
during the past winter on account of feeble health,
but as the genial warmth of spring came on, she 
ventured out the Sunday preceding, and on the
April fast day.  At the latter meeting she arose
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth, ex-
pressing her joy and faith in her Father's work,
remarking how thankful she was that her race
was so nearly run, that the time would soon come
when she would behold His face.
	Immediately after taking her seat her right arm
became numb and powerless.  The stroke spread
so that before night she was prostrated upon
the bed of sickness from which she never arose.
Though our acquaintance with our departed sister
had been of comparatively short duration, and
was not, perhaps, as intimate as that of many of
your readers, yet we, as a Society and as a com-
munity, had seen and known enough of her pure,
humble and faithful character to draw out our
deepest love and respect, and our true apprecia-
tion of her worth.
	And now, as a Society of sisters, we fully
realize the loss we sustain in her departure, though
it be to her gain; and we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to her many friends and relatives left 
behind, especially to her children, whom she ever
led in the straight and narrow way, and who fully
realize, better than we can tell them, that the
time will be but short when, if they will, they may
again meet her, their beloved mother, never more
to part.
				FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.,
