			PRAISE.

	"If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
		Why not whisper them to me?
	Don't you know 'twould make me happy,
		And as glad as glad can be?
 
     These sweet, simple lines have lived in 
memory in contrast with the old adage that,
"Praise to the face is a shame and disgrace,"
ever since my youth.  The latter was handed
down to my grandmother through a long line
of her ancestors, who regarded it of almost
equal importance with one of the ten com-
mandments, but my grandma took one step in
advance, and her ideas became somewhat
modified, and many a word of approbation I
received when my work was well done, which
wonderfully increased my desire to please her.
     In by-gone days, I think praise and flattery
were considered synonymous terms, and one
was as carefully guarded against as the other.
We may err in judgment and differ in taste re-
garding a friend's good qualities, attainments,
beauty, etc., but we should not be deemed
guilty of flattery, because our honest opinions 
do not agree with those of others.  We are all
delightfully human, battling continually with
the sins that do so easily beset us, but within
every soul is a spark of Divinity, which, if not
suppressed with false teachings, and continues,
will naturally prompt us to praise whatever
gives us pleasure or inspires our admiration,
and it is one of the easiest and most natural

[column 2]

ways of making each other happy as we go
toiling along in doubt and discouragement,
sometimes feeling that we are a failure—just
one word of praise from a friend renews our
courage, gives us new hope, and enables us to
struggle on with better success; but when every
energy is strained to do our part well, and no
word of approval comes to us as a sweet re-
ward, we grow weary and disheartened; 'tis not
always enough to know that God knows and
will reward us in His own due time; we want
our associates, on whom so much of our happi-
ness depends, to give us loving assurances.
We expect our loved ones to take everything
for granted after one or two assurances; but
the ardent lover is continually expressing his
regard; he leaves no room for doubt or thoughts
of indifference or negligence; but after marriage
the wife may listen in vain for the words of
praise and smiles of approval that once won
her heart.  And wives, too, forget that though
man may effect to ignore many outward ex-
pressions of the thoughts within, yet he is the
exception who does not appreciate it and grow
more tender and affectionate under the influence
of approval.
     Say a pleasant word to a friend, pay him a 
neat compliment, and see how ingeniously he
will guide after conversations into a repetition
of what gave him a comfortable impression of
himself.  A lady once remarked to me, that
she once entertained the idea that to win
friends she must impress people with a good
opinion of herself, but now she thought it
necessary to give people a good opinion of
themselves if we want to win their hearts.  It
is the general opinion that people become too
easily satisfied with their efforts if praised;
it may be so with ignoble natures, but the
noble and intelligent, which form a large por-
tion of mankind, will increase their diligence
to attain excellence, and if, perchance, praise
has been misapplied, it will not produce satis-
faction, but sorrow that their virtues were over-
estimated.
     Husbands and wives, strive to appreciate all
the good in each other, nor allow yourselves to
withhold what you deem a just reward of
praise. 
     Mothers, fathers, never let your little ones
hunger and thirst for your approval when they
have done well, it will be one of the best safe-
guards in the hours of temptation that multiply
around childhood and youth.
     Friends, be liberal in your approval of each
other, if you possess any external or internal
grace or virtue.  Will it not highten your own
opinion of it, and will you not guard it with
greater care if it give pleasure to your friend?
Be honest and sincere, and always tell your
loved ones just how much you love them; don't
let them starve to death for the expressions of 
love that would make this earth a paradise.
Inscribe your appreciation on their hearts
instead of on their tomb stones.  What is post
mortem love?  The flowers that beautify the
coffin would have eased many a heart-ache,
satisfied many a longing.  Do your work well
—use tact and good judgement—and do not
disgust and offend by clumsiness where you
aim to please; learn to praise in a graceful
manner, and make all in love with the princi-
ple.
