"MAY THIRTIETH, THE DAY OF
FLOWERS AND MEMORIES."
	Twenty years ago, the Grand Army of the Re-
public inaugurated the touchingly pathetic custom
now observed on Memorial Day, consecrating the
30th of May to sweet and sacred tribute.  Beauti-
ful and bright is the halo which surrounds the
inspiration and patriotism born of the hallowing
influences of this day; and all the world observes
with wonder and admiration our reverence for it.
	It was Gen. John A. Logan, who first proposed
that a day be set apart to tenderly revive the
memories of the past--and of the heroes who fell
in the Great War.  The thought of such an anni-
versary touched a mighty chord of tenderness in
the hearts of the people of our land, and soon
after its first proposal Congress made Memorial
Day a national holiday.  No day has grown so
quickly, nor ripened with such strength and tender-
ness in the hearts of the people as "Decoration
Day," or, as I better like to call it, "Memorial
Day."  No thoughtful person can fail to see how,
each year, this day grows dearer to all, and takes 
on a tenderer and deeper significance.  Each year
the number of veterans who come to strew with
flowers the graves of comrades, grows less; each
year names are added to the mighty roll of those
who are "mustered out" forever; but the day will
not die; our children and their children will ob-
serve it, for never shall be forgotten the principle,
for which they fought and died.
	"O, never will the Land forget
	How gushed the life blood of her brave."
	Memorial Day has proven a wondrous factor is
welding anew the broken links of love 'twixt the 
North and the South, the "Blue" now joining the
"Grey" in the beautiful services of Memorial Day.
Afar off in lonely swamp, and in the valley 'neath
the pines, where sleeps many an "unknown" hero
nature's kindly hand, with gentle grace, has robed
the mound with vines and flowers.  So, all over
the South land to-day, nature, with her "mantle of
charity"--flowers--is covering the marks of the
hosts who fought in our great War, and redoubt
and rifle-pit are half hidden by creeping grass and
clambering vines.
	No more graceful tribute was ever paid to valor
than when Memorial Day was set apart; no monu-
ment of sculptured marble, costly bronze, nor
granite pile, can so fitly honor the memory of our
soldier-dead as the observance of this day.  We
are adding, too, as the years go by, to the
mighty roll of those who fought and died for the
Union, the names of all our loved and lost, for,
	"There is no fireside, howso'er defended,
	But hath one vacant chair."
	Time, the great healer, has laid his hand
upon the hearts of those who mourned for the
brave and true who fell in the smoke and roar of
battle, or perished in prison, or died in the hos-
pital; but never can they forget; and though their
sorrow is less keen, the memories of those thus
lost are tender and true.


O, sacred Memorial Day! when memories of
all the precious past sweep o'er our souls, and 
soften every feeling save regret; a day when we
twine the cypress and the myrtle and heap with 
freshest flowers the graves where lie buried 
many a heart and hope.

	Bring flowers to-day for the true and brave,
		Who fought for the Union and you;
	Then crown with the myrtle and laurel
		The graves of the "Grey" and the "Blue."
	Let carnage and strife be forgotten,
		And the curtains of peace be hung
	O'er all; and the blest deeds of mercy,
		O, loud let their  glories be sung.
	Bring pansies, all golden and purple,
		Like thoughts of dear faces, long gone;
	The purple, the type of the loyal,
		The gold, of an heavenly crown.
	Bring lilies and cowslips and snowdrops,
		And roses blood-red and pure white,
	With woodbine and jasmine and cypress, 
		Wreathe a crown for our "army of light."
	And the "Day" with its lesson of flow'rs,
		Shall teach the children who see,
	We honor the heroes, who saved us,
		 Our land and our Union free.
	But when with footsteps slow we tread
		The streets of the silent town.
	And on the graves of our soldier-dead,
		We gently lay our chaplets down,—

	We'll keep a few of the flowers fair,
		The heliotrope and sweet harebell,
	For households that we know full well, 
		Where Death hath taken the larger share,
	And, methinks, it will be best—to say—
		To all who mourn, Memorial Day! 
								WOODINA.
			Mell G. Woods.


