A FEW THOUGHTS.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable paper. Our position at the present
time is one of vast importance to the ladies of
Utah, in connection with the noble ladies who
are boldly taking the lead in giving woman the
opportunities for development that has been
denied the past generation, and that it is only
a question of time when it will be proved be-
yond a doubt that woman was intended for
something higher than a mere household drudge;
that her capabilities, if cultivated, were equal
to man’s; that God placed her by the side of
man for a helpmate in the fullest sense of the
word, a counselor and friend, with the same
faculties, the same aspirations, the same love
of goodness, of purity, of virtue, of chastity,
of order, of true government and executive
powers that man has, and which are being
demonstrated in the movements of a few noble,
women, that are leading out from under the
bondage of centuries, and seeking the advance-
ment and elevation of their sisters, the women
of the world; and we, as the daughters of Zion,
hail with delight the bright future. Being in
possession of the Spirit of the Lord, we realize
the importance of advancement and education,
and we will lend our aid and all the ability the
Lord has given us to this end.
	We hope the ladies in this great movement
will see the necessity of an unbiased platform,

[Column 2]
and let the spirit of equal rights guide their
deliberations, that no partyism may destroy
the good that can be done by unity of action.
We endorse the resolution of Mrs. Robinson,
and do not see the necessity of an apology for
Utah ladies being admitted as delegates. The
ladies of Utah have been striving for years to
enlighten their sisters on these points. They
have an organization which extends all over
the world, wherever there is a church with
this object in view—the purification and eleva-
tion of the human family—and to raise women
to a higher plane of intelligence; and we are
proud of the success that has attended the
efforts, although but few, in comparison to the
whole, have realized that it is incumbent
in all to help, but hope in the future that more
will come to the front and help to sustain our
paper—the EXPONENT—and through that
medium exchange our ideas, and cultivate the
talents the Lord has given us,and also dissemi-
nate the principles of advancement and culture
to one another, thereby giving confidence and
and support to those who are in responsible
positions.
	We all have duties to perform as Saints.
All who have received the Holy Ghost have
the right to teach the principles of the Gospel
and help defend the rights of the sisterhood,
according to the light we have received. We
have only to read the speeches of the cultured
women of the world to convince us what can
be done if we will only throw off the yoke of
custom and superstition by which we have
been surrounded, and come to the rescue of the
daughters of Eve, and seek to purify and ele-
vate ourselves to that high standard of cultiva-
tion, which it was designed we should arrive at
by our Father in heaven, when we left His
presence to become mothers of the sons and
daughters of men. The time is fast approach-
ing when we will be called on to give an ac-
count of stewardship, and how shall we account
for the opportunities lost? or have we done our
duties faithfully in all things? Have we used
the talents given us to the glory of God? Have
we not rather hid our talents under a bushel?
Have we dealt unjustly with one another, to
court favor, or judged unjustly our brother or
sister? Do we not know that “judgment is
mine, saith the Lord, I will deal out judgment
and equity?” and as we sow so will we reap.
	The exigencies of the times demands an ex-
amination of ourselves, and let us ask, have
we a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
that is indisputable? If not, do not think to
deceive ourselves into the belief that we can
stand the trials that are in the near future,
without a true knowledge, and lose no time in
seeking it by mighty faith and prayer, until
we obtain it, for we will have to contend with
foe without and foe within, and if our faith
cannot be shaken in one way, it will be tried in
another. We have nothing to support us if
we do not live so that the blessing of God and
His Spirit cannot be and abide with us; let us
live pure before the Lord, be chaste in our
thoughts, and let true charity abide in our
hearts; let us sacrifice ourselves to the noble
work of advancement and culture of ourselves
and our sons and daughters; teach them the
laws of life and health, of the chastity and
purity of the races; let no false idea deter us
from this duty, as we will be held accountable
if we neglect this all-important subject; let us
not forget that our children are our glory, and
we must try to save them; although they falter
by the way, ever be on hand to lift them up;
never by unkindness give them a push down-
ward, but let salvation and true charity be our
motto.
	Praying for the advancement and success of
all that tends to the elevation of humanity,
I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
						S. A. Fullmer.
Orangeville, Emery Co., April 20, 1888.


