[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Paul Popenoe]

By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) SUCCESSFUL family life depends so much upon the attainment of emotional maturity that it is worth while to devote an entire lesson to the subject.
Some of the evidences of emotional maturity (e. G., attainment of selfknowledge, self-control, and unselfishness) were mentioned in Lesson No. 2.
This lesson will deal more particularly with the development of the love-life.
Using that term very broadly to refer to human relationships, it is evident that the love-life develops normally through a number of successive stages: I. The infant loves only himself. He is entirely self-centered, 100 per cent selfish. He is concerned solely with the satisfaction of his own needs and desires (not to say the gratification of his whims); he does not care how much he inconveniences anyone else, so long as he can have his own way. If he does not get his own way, he will have a tantrum and try to compel attention in that fashion. II. Shortly, however, the child broadens out his love-life to include his parents and in particular his mother (or her substitute). She occupies a relation to him that no one else holds. His love-life turns on an axis suspended between himself and her. She is very largely the object of worship and the source of authority. III.
Soon the love-life expands again. It is important to note that this development is not a process of leaving something behind, as the caterpillar leaves the cocoon behind to emerge as a butterfly. It is merely a matter of expanding the horizon. It is like throwing a stone into a pond. The circles become larger and larger, but the center, where the stone lit, is always there.
That center is you. You never cease to love yourself??if you do, you are insane, literally! But as time goes on you expand the area of your love-life until you occupy a much smaller part of it than you did when a baby. In the pre-adolescent period the child begins to emancipate himself from exclusive dependence on his mother; to develop more interests outside of the home; to begin to adopt the standards and values of those of his own age and sex (the "gang'', whether this be male or female). Formerly, whatever his mother said was so; now what his mother says is wrong if the gang thinks otherwise. At this stage he is learning how to get along with his equals (his parents may give him the best of it, or the worst of it, but can never treat him as a real equal).
This is a particularly important stage in development, because he is being socialized. IV. In the high school period, he begins to take more interest in the other sex. At first this is a generalized interest. The girl is interested in all boys, just because they are boys and she wants to learn what boys are like. But little by little, attention is focused for longer and longer periods of time on one person of the other sex, until by a process of trial and error each learns lis own nature and that of the other sex and finally. V. The adult level of mate-selection is reached, in which each picks a partner for life-long, unique companionship, the establishment of a home, and the founding of a new family.
This is the normal process, but unfortunately, development of the individual may be arrested at any stage.
Many an adult has really not passed beyond the infantile stage of self-love, of wanting to be waited on and having a tantrum if he does not get his own way.
Many an adult is still tied to his mother's apron strings?he has never been weaned, emotionally. (This is a common cause, among men and to a less extent among women, of failure to marty.) Many an adult has not passed beyond the Boy Scout level, emotionally.
Still more have remained at an adolescent level, in which any girl is about as attractive as any other (or vice versa) and a love-life can not long be maintained at an adult level?hence broken homes and broken lives. Fundamentally, the failure to go on at the normal time from one stage to the next is due to fear. ?The child attached to his mother is afraid to go out with the gang? they won't treat him as well as his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 65 mother does, so he stays where he is comfortable. 'The boy who is getting along well with the gang, is afraid to go out with girls. He knows how to deal with the gang, but he finds that the girls don't admire his accomplishments which the gang thinks are smart?they laugh at him. The boy who is getting along pretty well with a lot of girls is afraid to risk himself in a situation (i.e., marriage) where he has to hold one girl's affection all his life.
That seems a big undertaking; he feels safer to stay at the level of a playboy where he can merely "love "em and leave 'em."
Boys are a little more likely to be arrested in development at the mother-love stage, girls at the gang stage. A girl who has been taught, more or less unconsciously by her own mother, that "men aren't all that they ought to be" and that a girl's safety and happiness depends on keeping at a safe distance from them, will naturally have trouble in making the swing of interest over from her own sex to the othcr sex. If at the same time she lacks normal social life and plenty of informal associations with boys, it will be easy for her to go through life always afraid of boys and repelling them either by a morbid "hands off" attitude or on the contrary, if she is trying to overcome this fear by aggressiveness and becomes a little desperate, by pursuing them too openly. It is necessary to go through all the stages, if one is to grow up.
None of them can be skipped. Jim, for instance, never learned to get along with other boys: he missed the gang stage. At college he wants to get along well with girls and he should be having some romantic friendships with them. But this is lmpossible because he has never learned to get along with his own 66 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE equals (the function of the gang stage) and therefore never can deal with girls as equals. He has in his make-up only two kinds of love, namely, self-love and mother-love; therefore that is all he can offer the girls, and that is not what they want!
Since the tendency to grow up emotionally is inherent, all that is necessary is to give it a chance.
This means merely that the young people at each stage must (a) be free from fears, inhibitions, frustrations; (b) that they must have opportunity for a normal!
Social life, appropriate to their age; and (c) they must have before them all the time the normal patterns appropriate to the next stage, so they will be able to go ahead.
While every one of these stages is important, in actual practice the adolescent stage seems to be the "last resting place" of a large proportion of the population.
This is due to the fact that some parents do not themselves have any adult patterns to furnish the children; they themselves have never grown up. In the next place, the children often have too little association with their own parents, especially in cities.
Schools and colleges have not always recognized the problem and given young people help in growing through the adolescent stage. Finally, most of the patterns of the modern world, which surround our children from morning until night, are infarttile or, at the best, adolescent patterns, provided by the movies, the popular songs of the day, the newspapers and magazines, the billboards, and other educational agencies.
Take the matter of married happiness as an illustration. The newspapers are constantly mentioning marriages, but not because they are happy.
They are always telling of unhappy marriages?of the broken homes of wealthy, important, or conspicuous people.
Married happiness is rarely a theme of the movies, of popular songs, of fiction, or of the "funny papers": they are always presenting the opposite. Is it not almost inevitable, unless parents, church, and other serious interests make a much greater effort to counteract all this, that young people should grow up with the unconscious belief that married happiness is rare, that most of the prominent, wealthy, admirable, and intelligent people of the world fail in marriage; that it's just a gamble? but after all we might as well try it because a license costs only $2 and if we don't like it we can quit at any time! To succeed in marriage and parenthood, therefore, emotional maturity is almost indispensable. 'The attainment of this ought to be one of the principal concerns of modern life.
Questions and Problems 1.
Suggest two or three changes that you think should be made in the social life of many high school students, in order to promote their normal emotional development. 2.
Describe briefly some case from history, in which an intelligent man or woman was characterized by marked emotional immaturity. 3. A recent writer says that if parents are embarrassed by the sex questions of their children, it shows that the parents are not emotionally mature. How do you explain this? 4. A girl who is a freshman in college is not interested in boys; says that in comparison with her own father they all seem too frivolous, insincere ? not worth while. How would you counsel her, in order to give her a better perspective? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 67
Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 6 ANNA K. G. WIDTSOE (A Norwegian Lady) ANNA KARINE GAARDEN (WIDTSOE) was born June 4, 1849, in the famous fishing village of Titran, on the island of Froya, the outermost island, off the coast of Norway. She came of goodly parents -and lived in easy circumstances under her father's roof.
From her earliest childhood she manifested unusual intelligence and power. She was active, with a sensitive spirit that responded quickly to human needs or to the manifestations of nature. Indeed, her character was early nurtured and moulded by the contrasts of nature and constant battle with the ocean on her native island. She was trained well in her childhood.
Every day there was work to be done by the family and the men employed by the father in his fishing outfit. The seasons brought their own tasks?candle making, soap making, putting up fruit, carding and spinning wool, weaving cloth and, with the aid of a tailor, measuring, cutting and sewing the clothes for the family. In these tasks Anna and her sister, Petroline, were required to take part. Thus, they grew in usefulness and understanding. In the home.-also it was the custom, whenever possible, to hold a family gathering every evening, at which hymns were sung, a chapter from the Bible read, selections from musical instruments given and selections from history and literature read or recited. If the mail had arrived, these evenings also included recitals of the news of the day. It was a valuable type of education. The outermost island was not isolated, for, during the fishing season, thousands of men_ gathered from all parts of Norway and other countries of Europe to participate in the profits of the fishermen. The village had a cosmopolitan character.
Many men of influence sat at the table of the Gaarden family.
This was all educational for Anna and her sister. Anna's father, the government pilot, often took her with him on his trips to distant places; consequently she gained early a wide expetience with conditions prevailing in the world.
When she was twelve years of age her beloved mother suddenly passed away. The father, who never remarried, placed the burden of household responsibility upon Anna, guided and directed by her old nurse, Ingeborg Mikkelsen.
Soon after Anna's mother died, a new school teacher came to Titran, a black-haired, blue-eyed, deepvoiced, athletic young man, who soon, because of his intelligent helpfulness, became the idol of the people of the village. He comforted the sick, built up the depressed, helped the families with their legal affairs, provided a community house with literature and lectures for the thousands of fishermen who gathered on the island in the fishing season.
This young school teacher, John A.
Widtsoe by name, determined that some day he should 68 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE marry Anna Gaarden, who attracted him both for her beauty and her intelligence.
Anna had many suitors, but decided to give her life into the hands of the schoolmaster, and when a little past twenty-one years of age, married him. The years that followed were very happy.
Soon after the marriage the schoolmaster obtained a teaching position in one of the large cities of the mainland; thus she forsook permanently the island of her youth.
Seven years after her marriage came the catastrophe that completely changed the current of her life: One day the schoolmaster took sick in the school room, was brought home ill, and three days thereafter, died. The young widow could not understand why the Lord permitted such a thing to happen. She and her two boys needed the husband and father. She fought intense spiritual battles at the time, but came out victorious, with a greater trust and faith in God than she ever had before. The Bible became her constant companion. For a while she taught domestic art in the school in which her husband had taught, but soon settled in the city of Trondhjem, the home of her husband, where she set up business as a dressmaker. One day she took a pair of her son John's shoes to a shoemaker.
When she was about to leave the shoemaker said to her, "Madam, I have something better to give you than soles for your son's shoes." Astonished, she asked him what he, a shoemaker, could offer her better than shoemaker's service. He declared solemnly that he could teach her how to win happiness on earth and in the life to come; he could tell her whence she came, why she was on earth, and where she was going after death. The shoemaker was a Mormon convert who in this fashion was bearing testimony to his customer.; When she discovered that the shoemaker, Olaus Johnson, was a Mormon, she was horrified. However, when John's shoes were returned, a Mormon tract was found in each one of them. To her astonishment she found that the assertions made by the tracts were substantiated by Holy Writ. She ventured to attend a meeting of the little branch in Trondhiem. The Elders began to labor with her; she fought valiantly, for she did not wish to become a Mormon. She sat up throughout the nights seeking arguments with which to vanquish the Elders, but she was always vanquished. 'After two years, she became definitely convinced that the despised Mormons possessed the true gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ. She asked for an early baptism. On April 1, 1881, the ice was broken on the fjord and she was baptized in ice-cold water. She bore the testimony throughout her life that never before or since was she filled with such genial warmth. She began to tell relatives and friends of the pearl of great price that she had found. The usual thing happened?her friends turned away from her, her relatives would hardly speak to her. In despair she went back to the island whence she had come and where with tender heart she had for many years as the daughter of a well-to-do family distributed charity to all who were in need. Yet when she returned as a Mormon, every door was closed against her. She could not find a bed or a meal among relatives and former friends.
Thoroughly disillusioned she con- tinued her daily work in Trondhjem, and made plans for emigration to Utah.
Tickets were secured; she sold part of what was left of her husband's library, collected the remnants of her property, and with her two boys set sail to join the Latterday Saints in the valleys of the mountains. She arrived in Utah in 1883 and settled in Logan.
There she set up her dressmaking shop and began to earn a meager living under conditions very different than those she had known throughout most of her life. Her native country had a soft and easy climate, high mountains covered with green forests, sunlit summers, darkened winters; here the mountains were barren, the climate dry. Nevertheless, she loved the country to which she had come, for here she was with her people, and here she could sit under the voices of the Priesthood of Alinighty God The early days in Zion were not easy, and here in a strange land with few friends the path at times seemed thorny. 'There were weeks when the little family had little or nothing to eat, and her foolish pride kept her from seeking assistance from those who had ample.
There were long nights through which she sewed for a pittance. Tlowever, gradually she prospered. She built a small home; she took part in the activities of the Church; she won many friends; she grew greatly in spiritual power. In her thinking and planning, the welfare and the future of her two boys were uppermost. She was very loyal to the schoolmaster's memory; she never remarried. She had promised him to care for the boys and to provide for them training to fit them for the battle of life. Her husband had been a school teacher, and she felt that she could do nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 69 better than to cncourage her boys to follow in their father's footsteps. In course of time she secured training for both boys in the schools of that day. 'The older son, after finishing high school, went east to study at Harvard University and graduated in 1894. Her son Osborne soon afterwards graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College, where her son 'John was employed.
From then on, life was easier for the widow. Soon, Osborne was sent on a mission to the South Sea'Islands and the family was separated again. A little later John was married. Sister Widtsoe and her sister then took up their abode together in Salt Lake City where she lived until her death. She was a lover of flowers. She spent hours in her garden caring for them, and she insisted that flowers did best when they knew that a loving hand was tending them.
Along with the care of her flowers, she enjoyed doing good to those in distress.
Emigrants from her native country always found a welcome in her home. She advised, counseled and directed them.
Many had a successful beginning in the new land through the influence of Sister Widtsoe. As she became better off financially, she was able to help not only spiritually but materially. Her home, first in Logan and later in Salt Lake City, was always a gathering place for young people who loved the inspiration that flowed 'from her. In 1903, she and her sister accepted gladly a call to do missionary work in Norway, where they remained for more than three years; and after their release spent nearly another year in a successful search for their genealogy.
Upon their return in 1907, Sister Widtsoe became active in many public enterprises; belonged to a number of organizations 70 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to advance human welfare; kept up her acquaintanceship with her people, especially with youth and those who needed help. She was exceedingly happy in the realization of her ambition to educate her boys. John, some years after graduation, had gone abroad to study in Europe. Osborne, after graduating from the Utah State Agricultural College, had acquitted himself at Harvard University most creditably.
Both became teachers.
When she returned from her mission, John was the president of the Utah State Agricultural College, and Osborne held an important position in the Latter-day Saint College, of which he ultimately became the principal.
Later on, John became the president of the University of Utah and Osborne the head of the Department of English in that state institution.
Each of these onward steps gave great joy to Sister Widtsoe, who felt that thereby she was fulfilling the wishes of her departed husband. She was still happier to know that both boys were faithful to the restored Gospel and active in the Church. She was always a lover of education.
From her childhood the poetic instinct had beat strong within her.
Nature reacted strongly upon her. In later life she devoted a good part of her time to writing poetry in her native language, much of it of exquisite beauty. She also engaged in Temple work and together with her sister sought eagerly to complete the genealogical records of the family. Her spiritual life was of an exceedingly high order. At one time she was president of the Women's Press Club of Salt Lake City. She held, at various times, other positions of service.
Throughout her life her testimony of the truth of the restored Gospe of Jesus Christ never wavered; she grew stronger in her faith day by day. All who came within the radius of her influence were touched by the vigorous, unyielding faith that she possessed. She grieved, as all Latter-day Saints do, over the blindness of those who fail to understand the Gospel. A few days before she died, she declared that the greatest joy that had come into her life was derived from her possession of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as first brought to her by Brother Olaus Johnson, the shoemaker, in Trondhjem. "There has been nothing else sO precious in my life," she said. She died in the faith, July 11, 1919.
Topics for Consideration 1. Describe Anna Widtsoe's personality. 2. Why was it natural for her instinctively to impress one as a superior person? 3. Why do you think it was at first hard for her to accept Mormonism? 4. How and why did she become well informed on the scriptures? 5.
Relate the similarity of the things she did in girlhood with those Elizabeth Hoagland did. 6.
Account for the persecution accorded early converts to Mormonism among all peoples in all lands. 7.
What were Anna Widtsoe's greatest desires? 8.
Keeping in mind the abilities and achievements of her two sons, what do you estimate her own abilities to be? 9. How did she prove that she was a sincere, devoted Latter-day Saint? 10. She lived a typical Latter-day Saint life.
What kind of a life is this? 11.
What of value to us may be learned from Sister Widtsoe's life? So Relieve Your eyes "NATURE'S TINT' is what the paper mill calls the paper on which this January number is printed. It has been produced and is being used because it is easier on the eyes than the ordinary white, india, and sepia papers which have been used for many years.
This light green paper lends itself very nicely to the reproduction of art work and photographs and at the same time brings out very clearly all the smaller type and reading material. We congratulate the Relief Society Magazine on this forward step and trust that the decision to use Nature's Tint in 1939 will be just one of many incidents that will help to make a happy New Year for readers of this Magazine.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
Printers and Publishers since 1850 29
Richards Street... Salt Lake City, Utah