The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY, 1939. VOL. XXVI - NO. 1
You and more than FORTY THOUSAND other women subscribers are the guests of the Relief Society Magazine each month as you step within our cover-walls.
ADVERTISERS, too, are guests —welcome because of the great budget of news and helpful information they bring every month.
There are some paying guests whom our Magazine does NOT welcome.
We will not try to influence you to your detriment by taking advertising which in our judgment is contrary to the ideals and standards of the Latter-day Saints.
Our advertisers are legitimate business organizations paying for the space they use just as they would pay for advertisements in any other high-class medium.
They are in to secure business and as long as they can secure a fair amount of trade in proportion to the cost of advertising they will continue to be our paying guests.
You can help us make the Magazine a much more valuable advertising medium by giving these advertisers as much business as you consistently can.
Take the trouble to let them know you are conscious of their pre sence in the Magazine and bear in mind that the income from advertising can be a very important factor in keeping the subscription price at its present low level and will materially help sustain the many fine features that you enjoy in the Magazine each month.
The Magazine
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Mothers Know A Vitamin Reserve Helps Make Growing Children HAPPIER... HEALTHIER.
Your FUTURE depends Upon your TRAINING.
Fisher's
Start your business career now at the L. D. S. Business College
We'll Vitamin "D" Bread
Product of American Lady Baking Co.
70 No. Main Salt Lake City
YOUR BOOK STORE
The Deseret Book Company is YOUR book store, established to serve you.
It is especially qualified to supply your needs in the following lines:
All lessons and study material for Relief Society classes.
Church publications.
Supplementary teaching aids for class work.
Books for general reading.
Paper, pens, pencils, ink and other supplies.
Gifts for all occasions.
Personalized Greeting Cards.
Visual education and all moving picture equipment.
Get acquainted with our many services.
We specialize in serving by mail.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine