[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Confidence]

confidence certain Greeks had in Philip (John 12:20-22) who possibly was acquainted with them and their customs. The spiritual tone of Bethsaida must not have been high for the Christ pronounced a woe over it. The same must be said of Capernaum and Chorazin. (See Matt. 11:20-23; Luke 10:13-15) Perhaps we are justified in saying that most of the Galilee region was anything but spiritual and many centers of population were sinks of iniquity. Peter and the other future apostles were representative of a little group who might be termed the "salt of the earth" in their respective communities.
Peter Marries.?Peter probably married young as do most Orientals. The marriage would be arranged by his parents or a go-between according to the usual customs prevailing. (Cf. Gen. 24) The settlement would include a satisfactory dowry and the exchange of gifts. It is even possible that Peter never saw his bride until the day of his marriage. The actual wedding ceremony may have lasted several days depending upon the financial status of the families. The women gathered at the home of the bride and the men at the home of Peter. We unfortunately do not know the name of Peter's bride nor the family she came from. On the great day of the wedding the bride, who had waited in her own home until night, and the groom were brought together. "The hours of waiting for the coming of the groom seem to drag slowly along, and the women and girls who are waiting with her often drop off to sleep. Suddenly those who are watching see the lights of torches and lanterns in the distance, and the shrill wedding cry is raised, amid the shouts of 'There he is! The bridegroom is coming!' Then all is confusion and excitement the bridesmaids trim their lamps (Matt. 25:5-7), and go forth a short distance to meet the groom. The intimate friends enter the house of the bride, while the others wait outside. After a time the entire party returns to the house of the groom. Soon the bride and groom retire to another room; the friend of the groom, who has been one of those who helped to arrange the marriage, waits until the groom appears at the door to announce his satisfaction and happiness in his bride, and then his joy is full (John 3:29)." The above quotation for all practical purposes may be considered a description of Peter's marriage. Peter must have found it more convenient at a later time to live in Capernaum than at Bethsaida. Possibly his mother-in-law had lost her husband. At any rate the Gospels seem to disclose the fact that she was being taken care of in Peter's home at the time our Lord cured her of fever. (Mark 1:29-34; Matt. 8:14-17; Luke 4:38-41).
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits)
1. Give all the reasons you can why we are interested in Peter.
2. In the case of Joseph Smith the Lord chose a young boy. In the case of the ancient apostles he seems to have chosen full grown men. Explain the difference as best you can.
3. A large foreign population lived in Galilee. What possible effects, good or bad, would this have upon the development of the ancient apostles?
4. Palestinian parents arranged the marriages of their children. What would you say are the good points and defects of this system?

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 7
Cast The Beam From Thine Own Eye
"Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye."?Luke 6:37-42.
If a modern psychologist should give this same advice he would say that one must gain first an objective attitude of himself and then he will be sufficiently able to avoid his own shortcomings to help others. The objective attitude is the ability to stand off and look at oneself objectively; to note just what is wrong with oneself and what to expect. In doing so one becomes better able to solve his own personality problems. Actually each of us have limitations and capacities, an objective estimate of which is essential to the fullest development of character and personality. We have "beams" in our eyes, the presence of which we are sometimes quite unconscious. Our jealousies, prejudices, fears, angers, etc., bias our behavior and deter desirable personality development. We may not always be able to prevent these feelings from occurring, but we can develop the ability to weigh them objectively in order that we may estimate their true importance and deal with them constructively. No one need fear an accurate estimate of himself. Removing the "beam" from one's own eye makes social adjustment more efficient for both self and neighbor. The highest development of personality demands a responsibility to our fellowmen. Jesus does not deny that "motes" need to be cast out from our brother's eye, but He does insist that clear vision is essential to doing it well. He warns against adverse criticism which looks for the evil in people and seeing it tears the character to pieces. The tendency to see the "mote" in the eye of our brother, to criticise and even gossip about it, is all too common. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, psychologist of Union College, says this is a method by which one endeavors to compensate for his own feelings of inferiority. He directs attention from his own "beams" to the "motes" of another. Jesus ably illustrates these truths in the parable of the unmerciful servant recorded in Matthew 18:21-33.
Discussion
1. Explain how seeing the "beam" in our own eye enables us to deal more justly with the "mote" in a brother's eye.
2. Explain why an objective view of oneself does not cause inferiority complex.
3. Explain the word gossip. What is its effect upon personality?
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the ward.

Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 7
Lorna Doone, a Story of Exmoor
Lorna Doone, by Richard Doddridge Blackmore, was written in 1869, at the peak of the Victorian period, but its author, describing scenes and activities of the seventeenth century during the reign of King James II of England, uses the style of that period. It is an important novel belonging to the list of classics of our language even though Blackmore is considered a minor novelist. Edwin L. Miller, writing in his book English Literature, says: "The book (Lorna Doone) in short, should be read by everybody." Miller says further: "Its plot is good; its style has the pleasing flavor of its age, that of James II; it is saturated with the joy of open air adventure; and John Ridd, its hero, is imperishable."
Miller is but one of many critics who have acclaimed Lorna Doone one of the best romances in the English language. It is a delightful tale, told in the first person, in a half-archaic style that is unusually pleasing. Blackmore throws around his characters an aura that makes them appear as beautiful etchings done in tempera on old parchment. John Ridd, the stalwart Exmoor youth, early in the story takes his place in the center of the stage and scarcely leaves it until the last line has been devoured. John has almost superhuman strength, a delightful sense of humor, a naive way of saying things to make the reader feel that he is gently boasting in a most modest manner. Lorna Doone, on account of her beauty, which John constantly reveals to us?beauty of face and form and figure as well as of spirit?is one of the most loved heroines in fiction. Blackmore was astute when he entitled his book Lorna Doone rather than John Ridd, for by so doing he centered the interest upon the heroine whereas the hero is really the center of all action.
The story may appear to be a bit long to the casual reader. That weight of length has been brought upon us by the speed of our modern world. When the book was written there was plenty of time for long books because books were fewer in number and much more inaccessible than they are at the present time. The story is founded upon the legends of the Doones, a fierce band of robbers who once inhabited Exmoor. However, the romance is scarcely a historical novel in the sense that Sir Walter Scott's The Talisman is historical. The Doones may have actually lived, but the scenes in which they figure in the book are, in all probability, pure fiction. Long says of this tale of young love: "The story abounds in romantic scenes and incidents; its descriptions of natural scenery are unsurpassed, the rhythmic language is at times almost equal to poetry, and the whole tone of the book is wholesome and refreshing. Altogether it would be hard to find a more delightful romance in any language, and it well deserves the place it has won as one of the classics of our literature." It has been said that Lorna Doone "to a Devonshire man is as good as clotted cream". Helen Rex Keller in her "Reader's Digest of Books" says: "... It is Blackmore's special pride that as a native 'he has satisfied natives with their home scenery, people, life, and language'." She continues, "Even without so swift a succession of exciting incidents the unhackneyed style, abounding in fresh simile, with its poetic appreciation of 'the fairest county in England' combined with homely realism, would make it delightful reading. Much as Hardy acquaints us with Wessex, Blackmore impresses Exmoor upon us, with a comprehensive 'Englishness' of setting and character. It is out-of-door England, with swift streams, treacherous bogs, dangerous cliffs, and free winds across the moors."
Lorna Doone begins with John Ridd, a husky boy at school just beginning to show promise of the powerful man he was to become. Told in the first person, it soon establishes a feeling of verisimilitude which carries the reader into the reality of the story. Early in the book big John Ridd meets the charming little girl who is to become the heroine of the story. From that moment forward, even though he does not learn her name during their accidental meeting, the story is given direction and the pleasing outcome is inevitable, for no one of the temperament of John Ridd could very well become the hero of a tragedy. The second meeting between Lorna Doone and John Ridd is delightfully told. John goes fishing to capture loaches for his mother, and in following the stream he comes into the Doone country, a sort of fairy place at the head of a great waterfall, in the hidden valley formed by precipitous peaks. The charm of Blackmore's style is to be found throughout the narrative but scarcely in bolder relief than in the following passage which also suggests hidden meanings, suggestive qualities which abound in the books that really live. John is walking along through his lovely Exmoor when he is thrilled, as we all are at times, by a sudden inspiration of beauty, something akin to revelation more than to observation. "It is all very pretty to see the trees big with their hopes of another year, though dumb as yet on the subject, and the waters murmuring gaiety, and the banks spread out with comfort; but a boy takes none of this to heart, unless he be meant for a poet, and he would liefer have a good apple, or even a bad one, if he stole it."
John Ridd meanders along through his lovely countryside and finally climbs the roaring stream into Doone glen. There he falls and we find this bit of description of Lorna Doone: "When I came to myself again, my hands were full of young grass and mould, and a little girl kneeling at my side was rubbing my forehead tenderly, with a dock-leaf and a handkerchief. 'Oh, I am so glad,' she whispered, softly, as I opened my eyes and looked at her; 'now you will be better, won't you?' I had never heard so sweet a sound as came from between her bright red lips, while there she knelt and gazed at me; neither had I ever seen anything so beautiful as the large dark eyes intent upon me, full of pity and wonder. And then, my nature being slow, and perhaps, for that matter, heavy, I wandered with my hazy eyes down the black shower of her hair, as to my jaded gaze it seemed, and where it fell on the turf, among it (like an early star) was the first primrose of the season. And since that day, I think of her, through all the rough storms of my life, when I see an early primrose. Perhaps she liked my countenance, and indeed I know she did, because she said so afterwards; although at the time she was too young to know what made her take to me. Not that I had any beauty, or ever pretended to have any, only a solid, healthy face, which many girls have laughed at."
From that point forward, the story moves steadily on with the strength of big and brave John Ridd a comfort and shield to his own people as well as to the girl whose lot it was to live among the fierce Doones. The plot concerns itself chiefly with the rescuing of Lorna from the Doones and marrying her, but of course, in the telling, as a good novelist should, Blackmore weaves in many of the