[Column 2]
hour or two to look on and listen, there are
many who have the time if they could only
have the inclination; for when one recalls
how women poured into the Constitutional
Convention day after day when the subject
of equal suffrage was being discussed there,
one wonders if they really appreciate the
ballot now it has been obtained. It is to be
hoped women will make a study of govern-
ment at home and wherever and whenever
there is an opportunity; but judging from
the little interest taken in this very impor-
tant Legislature, one cannot but feel they
are losing time to say the least.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. Mrs.
Kate Groesbeck President, the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman’s Press Club are all
taking hold of such subjects as will help in
the welfare of the state, and it is ardently
hoped that in other Counties the same kind
of study is being taken hold of with quite
as much energy.
	It is gratifying to know that the Govern-
or of Utah is consistently carrying out the
equal suffrage idea in the appointments he
is making on State Boards of public insti-
tutions. On the Board of the institute for
the Deaf and Dumb recently appointed by
Governor Wells, out of five persons two
women were made members Mrs. Harriet
F. Emerson of Ogden and Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of this City,
	The Boston Standard of Feb. 13 speak-
ing of the young Governor of the new State
of Utah says:
	“The advocates of equal rights have
indeed good reason to feel encouraged
and stimulated, not only in the fact that
with the admission of Utah a woman suf-
frage state is added to the Union, but also
that a man of integrity, of character and of
broad liberal principles, who recognizes the
value of an intelligent woman’s vote,
occupies the position of Governor of the
new State.”
	“The advanced attitude of the
residents of Utah in respect to the wo-
man question is an example of enlighten-
ment that reflects greatly to the credit of
the people in that western state and bespeaks
a high degree of moral and intellectual
force that might well be emulated by the in-
habitants of other localities in this Repub-
lic.”
	Closing the article of a column and a
half is the following.
	“Surely the women of the East
may well congratulate the women of
the State of Utah upon their representa-
tive in the gubernatorial chair. Would
that all men in public offices might be given
as fair a character.


