N.A.W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	Now then do we understand the intricate
problems of state which come up before
us? Is it not wonderful how deep those
problems are as soon as the women want to
have anything to do with them. I had not
had much experience and I did not know
as much about politics as I do now when I
went up to our Legislature with great fear
and trembling in my heart for fear the pro-
blem before us would be so deep and pro-
found, but when I expressed my fear to the
lady who was with me she said undoubted-
ly I could understand it. So we went up 
into the gallery where they keep us women
and the Clerk read something from the
desk and I did not understand a word.
Then a gentleman took the floor, run his
fingers through his hair and I listened with
great eagerness to what he was going to
say and the first word I heard him say was
"fish." He talked for an hour or two.
He declared it was better for the farmers of
Massachusetts, better for the great institu-
tions of Republicanism, better for this mag-
nificent, free and independent government,
that we catch fish on a hook; and the other
side took up their side of the question and
with just as much vehemence declared that
fish ought to be caught with a seine. And
for three days and a half they argued this
deep and profound problem, catching fish,
and then when they put it to a vote, they
decided with a Republican majority to catch
them both ways. (laughter.) I had such
good success that time I thought I would
go back again and the next time I went up
they had the subject of “lobster” under
discussion. They had a lobster there and
were measuring it with a rule, to see how
long a lobster should be allowed to grow
before it should be caught and sold upon
the market. They finally decided that if
any man caught a lobster which did not
measure 10 1/2 inches, he would be fined
$5.00 and two, $10.00. And I said “What
are you going to do with the young lobsters
in the future?” They said they were going
to stay there and they would catch all the
old ones and sell the old and tough ones
that came in. So we got the old lobsters,
and New York got the tender ones. So 
they went on and protected every living
thing on the earth except folks. So we
went up and said: “Now gentlemen, you
have protected the baby fish, how shall
men catch baby boys, one at a time on the
hook or with a snare as they are catching
them in the dens of vice in the cities?" We
had permission to withdraw, and if there is
anything we women know how to do it is
to withdraw. We all went back again and
we said: “Nowgentlemen, you have
protected the baby lobster until it is 10 1/2
inches long, and won't you protect the
baby girl until she is as old as the lobster is
long?" And we said: “Gentlemen, you
have protected all living and breathing
things in the City of Boston, that Athens
of America, that center of culture in the
United States where we have Faneuil Hall,
where we have a school of philosophy,
where we have a John L. Sullivan and
where we have a greater portion of the cul-
ture that this nation has been able to pro-
duce.” We said: Now you have protected
everything can’t you protect beaten wives
for we have 2,000 cases of cruel wife beat-
ing every year in the slums of the City; and
I was a dispensing physician. The bill we


