MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT.

	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, nee
Carrie Lane, Chairman of the Organiza-
tion Committee of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, was born in 
Ripon, Wis. and lived in that State until
seven years old. Then her parents re-
moved to Charles City, IA., which was her
home during most of her life. She was
educated at the State Industrial College of 
Iowa, after which she took a special course
in law. For three years she served as
principal of the High School and General
Superintendent of Schools of Mason City
Ia, at the end of which period, in 1884,
she was married to Leo Chapman, editor of
the Mason City Republican. They were
joint owners and editors. At the end of the
year they sold this property, and Mr. Chap-
man went to the Pacific Coast to find a 
more active field of labor. While there he
sickened with typhoid fever, and, died in
San Francisco. Mrs. Chapman remained
in that city for a year, doing general news-
paper work, and was the first woman re-
porter in that city. During her life there
she became familiar with much of the hard-
ships and privations of working women
in great cities, and for the first time realized
the fearful temptations which beset the
poor girl thrown upon her own resources.
Many sad cases of despair which finally led
to ruined character came under her direct
notice. With the finale of one particularly
distressing circumstance of this nature,
she resolved that the remainder of her life, 
with whatever ability God had endowed
her, should be expended in making the
working woman of the United States
respectable and respected, and, her right to
labor unquestioned. With this intent she
went upon the platform as a lecturer upon
general topics, thinking to gain a foothold
in this way. It was not long before the
suffrage cause claimed her attention. It is
plain to all that when the government
recognize the equal brain power of a wo-
man by counting her influence as a voter,
the world will follow speedily to recognize
her equality in labor. With her industries
recognized, her wages will rise. With
respectable wages, it will be easy to main-
tain character.
	For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891 she was
married to George W. Catt, president of the
New York Dredging Co. He is as ardent
a suffragist as is his wife, and aids her in
her work in every way possible.— Woman's
Journal.


