A POETICAL ADDRESS.

	[Written of the Seventy fifth Birthday Anniver-
sary of Sister Zina D. H. Young.]

In Utah’s vales, from end to end,
Wherever Zion’s stakes extend,
	Wherever Zion’s songs are sung,
Good will, as for a household friend,
Encircles, Sister Zina Young.

With truth’s eternal cause allied,
	Ages before her mortal birth,
When rebel hosts elate with pride,
	in Heaven—the Sovereign Lord defied;
Distinguished was her zeal and worth.

A chosen One! Reserved to dwell—
	On earth, in these eventful times: 
To be a comforter as well, 
	Among the ranks of Isreal,
Gather’d from distant lands, and climes. 

A sympathetic, thoughtful soul,
	Who human sorrow understands,
Possessed of patient self-control
	And fervent faith, and helpful hands
That fain would make the sufferer whole, 

Our Sister Zina heads the lists—
	Of Zion’s Sisterhood—to day,
A band of true philanthropists,  
	Who constantly, as best they may,
The helpless and the poor assist.

Many, whose names can never die, 
	Whose memory claims sincere esteem,
Co-workers, in the days gone by,
Have been recalled to worlds on high,
	Yet Zion’s ranks unbroken seem.

Whoever, either comes or goes
	Zion is destined to progress
Her fate is not as some suppose
	Dependent on "The arm of flesh"
But all who bless her, God doth bless.

Of Zion’s earliest friends and true,
	Only a remnant we discern,
One here and there, a scattered few, 
	And these (who still we have in view)
Are near the goal, whence none return.

Now! is the time, undoubtedly—
	While friends are with us to rejoice
While each familiar face we see
	And hear each dear familiar voice;
A taste of lasting joys to be.

Haply before we are aware,
	Enduring souls, now weighted down;
Will lose their loads of grief and care,
	And wonder how, and when, and where—
They ceased to fear, Misfortune’s frown.

All, who can read “between the lines”
	Can trace our Father’s kind intent;
Oh! Wherefore question wise designs—
	Always, for our advancement meant?
Surely, ’tis well, to woo content!

For “Sister Zina” much we ask;
	May joy’s unlooked for—oft refresh her;
Long in Love’s sunshine may she bask, 
	Imbibing strength for ev’ry task;
And long may love lit eyes, caress her. 

Sadly we’d miss the kindly voice, 
	And cheery counsel, free from guile,
That makes so many hearts rejoice
	In seasons of severest trial; 
	How can we spare her yet awhile?

The friend of all, the foe of none;
	Akin to God’s most gracious Son—
Are they who let true Mercy lead;
Love! Is a magnet, strong indeed;
By sweet Compassion! Souls are won.

In friendship’s name, we owe a debt—
	To Heaven, or unto kindly Fate,

