[Column 2]
nearly break their necks trying to show the
people of this country that every man be-
lieves in silver. Why didn’t they ten years
ago? Simply because silver has organized
itself into a political power that is all, and
today the man who has any political am-
bitions must be a firm advocate of silver or
else his political ambitions are dead. Every
time we have attempted to do anything or
to get anything or to get any law changed
to benefit the condition of women we have
always had to go to men. Why did it take
us women in Massachusetts three years to
get a bill passed which enabled a married
woman to own her own clothes. When a
woman is married does she not earn her
board and clothes and her husband must be
the judge of the kind of clothes she must
wear and after she has earned her own
clothes they don’t belong to her. She
thought she was wearing her own clothes
but she was not, she was wearing her
husband's clothes all the time. We never
did find out what the law was until we had
a lawsuit. A lady traveling over the
Boston and Albany Railway lost a trunk
full of clothes. She brought suit against
the company and the defense made by the
Railway Company was that she was a mar-
ried woman and consequently she could not
have lost any clothes because a married wo-
man’s wardrobe belongs to her husband.
	If it is true that a married woman does
not own her own clothes and it took us
three years to find it out in Massachusetts,
one half of the women in the United
States to day do not own their own clothes.
It took us just ten years to get a bill passed
to bury widows and during all that time we
went on burying widows just as we bury
widowers until a certain mother-in-law de-
cided the widow should never be buried be-
side her son, and the widow went on and
the mother-in-law served an injunction and
to the amazement of everybody no widow
had ever been legally buried in the State,
and no widow was entitled to be buried in a
family burying ground. A widow is en-
titled to a life interest in one third of a
cemetery lot and a life use of a cemetery
lot is of no especial use to anybody.
(Laughter.) We climbed up Beacon Hill
for ten consecutive years buttonholing the
members smiling and arguing and talking
by the yard to make those men see the rea-
sonableness of a widow to be buried until
she had the good sense to die. I never
knew before why the old cod-fish had been
suspended over the speaker’s desk—but in
the old room it hung suspended from the
dome. They put it up there so the women
would have something to look at. So for
ten years we sat up in the gallery gazing on
the big stuffed cod-fish and down on the
little stuffed cod fish below (laughter) and
finally when the bill was passed we began to
bury widows—of course we could not bury
them before, they all had to wait until the
bill was passed. It was not gallantry nor
courtesy nor chivalry that prompted them
to pass the bill, it was because we worried
the life out of them and that was the only
way they saw to get rid of us. So long as
he law regulates everything that touches
our lives why have we not the right to ex-
press our will and our wishes in regard to
the laws. So long as politics meddle with
us—so long as the law meddles with us so
long have we the right to meddle with it
(applause.) If you ask me why we wo-
men want the ballot I say because the bal-
lot is able to regulate and control things.

[Column 3]
The reason why I want the ballot is because
I am a human being—I have the right to
life a right to the pursuit of happiness and
the right to liberty and if I have a right to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness I
have a right to the power that protects my
life and protects me in the pursuit of hap-
piness and liberty in this country and that
power is the ballot and the ballot alone.
(Appluse.)
	Adjourned at 10-30 to meet at the As-
sembly Hall, Tuesday morning at 10
o’clock.


