[Column 1]
drew up was the best bill I ever saw and it
read like this: “Any man who brutally
beats his wife shall be beaten in turn and
sentenced to not more than 40 nor less than
20 days." Some one said “Miss Shaw,
you are a missionary.” I said “Yes.”
Would you like to see such a man then go
to a home and see the poor little woman
who was dying, and when her husband
came home he wanted her to get right up
and get his supper. He caught her by the
hair and dragged her out of the bed on the 
floor and then kicked her with his great
boots until she was almost insensible; and
what was done to that man. He was sent
up for sixty days to the Island. This hap-
pened along in May. Now this Island is a 
beautiful spot in Boston Harbor. There is
a building upon the Island, one of the most
beautiful buildings—it was a contract
building. (Laughter.) That was where
they sent him and he was given a room all
to himself and three straight meals a day
and the gentle zephyrs of the Atlantic
fanned his fevered brow; he spent the hot
summer months in that delightful way,
while his wife got a chance to stay at home
and take care of the children and earn a
living for him. Now we wanted him to be
punished. When a man gets to be so
brutal and so beastly that he beats a woman
and so cowardly that he beats a woman be-
cause she can’t beat him back, then they
put him on the road breaking stones and
they pay his wages to his wife to support
the family, and on Saturday night they
lock him up in jail and on Monday morning
set him to work again breaking stones.
This is the plan that is adopted by one of
our states. If I could have a say in that
beating law I would set him to breaking
stones and when he would use his muscle
up on stones he would not beat his wife.
Then they gave us permission to withdraw.
As we women were going out we met
several men, we learned they were a com-
mittee from the Milk Dealers Association of
the State of Massachusetts they wanted pro-
tection for their milk cans—they had been
followed up by some people who had been
stealing the milk out of the cans and had
battered the cans all up. So these men
got protection just three hours after their
bill was taken up. I never can remember
anything exactly, I never could memorize
anything but that bill was something like
this: “Any person or persons who inter-
feres with the milk cans or who will erase
the name of the owner of a milk can from
the milk can of the milk dealer or milk
dealers or defaces a milk can owned by a
milk man or a milk dealer or milk dealers
shall be fined not to exceed $100.00 or
three months imprisonment. Exactly word
for word the same as the fine imposed on a
man for brutally beating his wife is the fine
imposed for mutilating a milk can and these
men got the milk bill passed so easily and I
said to them: “Why is it that you can get
your milk cans protected.” And they said:
“We are a committee from a great organiza-
tion and if this legislature had not passed a
bill which was so just in the interests of our
business, every man there knows he would
be defeated next year and some other man
would come up in his place. So we per-
-ceived that if the women of Massachusetts
had the right to vote, their bill too in refer-
ence to wife beating would have been
passed. It is the power of the ballot that
wins. Why is it that the great politicians
of the west who desire to go to congress

