[Column 2]
Continued by singing. President J. S.
Coleman felt pleased to see so many
present, “we should trust in our Heavenly
Father to put such things into our hearts
that will be for the good of all,” prayed
God to bless us in our conference. First
Counselor Mary E. Hanks was pleased to
meet with the sisters, said: “If we all have
a prayerful heart, such things will be said
that will be beneficial to all. We are liv-
ing in a day and age when there are great
improvements, therefore it behooved us to
improve ourselves everyway possible pre-
pare ourselves to bring forth mighty men
and women. It is a great joy, when
mothers see their sons promoted to higher
priesthoods. We should encourage our
children to read good books. The lectures
on faith have been a great help to the
sisters, they understand the principles of
the Gospel. The Relief Society of Thurber,
Fremont and Teasdale were reported in
good running order. Sister Lucinda
Brown felt paid for coming to meeting.
We should live arid practice such things in
our lives that we do know is right.
Sister Nancy Blackburn bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, said, “the sisters
have been organized into societies for a
good purpose and we should be punctual in
doing our duties," etc. Sister Sarah A.
Robinson made remarks which were
timely. Pat. E. H. Blackburn was pleased
for the privilege of being with the sisters,
the progress of the spirit of the Lord to us
is wonderful, it is the right of every sister
to have the spirit of revelation with them.
President J. S. Coleman was pleased with
the remarks made and the spirit enjoyed.
Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Bastian.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—After opening
exercises Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe ad-
dressed the conference, said: “We should
be humble and seek for the spirit of the
Lord, we should be obedient to those who
are placed over us, these meetings are for
the purpose of instructing the sisters,
should instruct our children to do their
duties in the priesthood, we should seek
the Lord and his righteousness and all
other things will be added, the more we
study the more our minds will expand, the
Lord will cut his work short in righteous-
ness,” etc. The officers of the central
board were then sustained and also the
stake officers, the Relief Society of Loa,
Lyman and Caneville were reported in good
condition. Sisters Margaret Pace and
Julia Blackburn spoke encouragingly to
the sisters. Sister Leah Blackburn said:
we should encourage our children to go to
meeting our actions will be called up before
us, there is a great responsibility resting
upon the mothers, let us perform our duties
to the best of our ability. President J. S.
Coleman felt that the sisters in Wayne
Stake are improving greatly, "we have had
a goodly portion of the holy spirit with us,
if, we would seek faith the weak would be
made,strong, mothers should make good
selections for their children, etc., desired to
do all the good possible, obey those who
are placed over us.
	President W. E. Robinson said he had
listened with a great deal of interest to the
instructions given, said how perfectly we
are organized compared with the women of
the world, was pleased to note the increas-
ing interests in the Relief Society and see
them carry out the resolutions given by
those wlip are placed over them; the sisters

[Column 3]

should work in unison with the brethren,
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Hansen rejoiced
in meeting with the sisters in conference,
“the Lord is mindful of the sisters in their
efforts to do good,” encouraged the sisters
to continue in their good work so that our
influence may be felt for good. Presiden
J. S. Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, “Be it my only wisdom here,” etc.
Conference adjourned to be held at Cane-
ville. Benediction by Pat. E. H. Black-
burn. 
