[Column 2]
Plan Of Work of 1895, that "the plans of
the Committee on Organization shall be
approved by the Business Committee be-
fore being carried into execution,” and
that "the Business Committee shall make
a contract with each organizer employed as
to financial remuneration, ” be adopted for
1896.
	We recommend that the Organization
Committee be instructed to aid in strength- 
ening and increasing the organization of
North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana,
Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and
Oklahoma. These States surround our
nucleus of suffrage States, where the great-
er promise of the early enfranchisement of
women is to be found. The work so well
begun in these States this year should be
continued until all are fitted for campaigns.
We recommend especial attention to Idaho,
where an amendment will be voted on in
November, to Arizona and Oklahoma,
where Constitutional Conventions may be
called during the year, and to Nevada,
where an amendment has passed one Legis-
lature.
	We recommend especial help in organiza-
tion for Delaware, where a Constitutional
Convention is expected soon.
We recommend that each Southern State,
not yet well enough organized to hold a
State Convention and elect its officers by
representation, shall be aided in organiza-
tion; but in the event that any Southern
State decides to hold a Constitutional Con-
vention, the work of the South shall be
concentrated upon that one State. As
Virginia stands at the foot of our list of
States in point of organization we urge es-
pecial help for that State.
	We recommend that each State appoint
an Organization Committee to push the
work of State organization, and we urge
especially that each State, so far as possi-
ble, effect county organization.
WORK FOR CLUBS.
	We recommend, the continuation and
financial support of the Course of Study in
Political Science.
	We recommend the continuation of the
National Suffrage Bulletin, as an econom-
ical and simple method of communication
with the local clubs.
	We recommend that blank-books for
secretaries and treasurers, order-book and
other supplies necessary for local clubs,
shall be kept in stock at the headquarters,
where they can be sold at low rates to all
clubs. We recommend that letter-paper
with a printed head suitable to all local
clubs be provided at headquarters, and sold
to all who desire it
	We recommend that the Business Com-
mittee appoint a committee of three to pre-
pare: a series of booklets on the biographies
of the early leaders of the woman suffrage
movement. These biographies must be
brief enough to be read at a program meet-
ing of any club. We believe a more in-
timate knowledge of the personality, the
character and sacrifices of these leaders will
not only interest all local workers, but will
inspire them with fresh resolutions to serve
our cause. The biographies should be
sold at the local clubs and all others desir-
ing them, at low rates.
	We repeat a recommendation of the
Plan of Work of 1895; For practical work
looking towards legislation, we recommend
1 that each State Association, through its
local clubs and individual workers, shall
gather-from the tax lists of all the counties

[Column 3]
the number of women holding taxable pro-
perty and the amount of taxes paid. This
has already been done in New York and
Kansas, likewise Connecticutt, and the total
amount of taxes paid by women in those
States was a revelation to the public, and
compelled every respector of the Declara-
tion of Independence to believe in woman
suffrage.
	We recommend, further, that in all States
where unjust laws exist concerning wo-
men, the State Association shall endeavor to
secure the revision of those laws. We re-
commend them to agitate for school suffrage,
and in the twenty-three States where this
form of suffrage is enjoyed, to use all their
powers to get out a large vote of women.
Next we urge them to agitate either for
municipal or presidential suffrage. We re-
commend to all States that they defer ask-
ing for a constitutional amendment to be
submitted to popular vote until the State is
well organized, and until there are strong
indications that the chief political parties
will endorse woman suffrage in their plat-
forms.
	We also recommend that each local club
send delegations to each county political
convention, and to each primary when
possible, and that the State Associations
send delegations to each State Political
Convention, and urge upon all of them the
endorsement of women suffrage in their
platforms.
	We recommend that this Association
urge the women throughout the United
States, whether in organizations or out, to
see that delegations or individuals wait on
every man who holds a legislative office, or
is a candidate for such office, to secure his
promise for legislative action favorable to
woman suffrage.
	We recommend that a Committee of
Letter-Writers shall be appointed by the
Business Committee. The persons to serve
on this committee must all possess unusual
gifts in the art of letter writing. One shall
be appointed for each organizer. It will be
her duty to place herself in correspondence
with the new clubs reported to her by that
organizer. She will encourage the new
workers, advise them and help them in all
ways possible. We believe by this means
the local club will be nurtured more care-
fully than heretofore, and that clubs compos-
ed of weak elements may in this manner,
be trained to become independent forces.
FINANCE.
	The Plan of Work Committee estimates
that $10,000 should be expended by the
Organization Department in the coming
year. We believe this amount can be raised
with proper effort. 
	Recognizing the aid the Entertainment
Committee has given to the local clubs in
suggestions of ways to raise money, we
heartily recommend the continuance of that
committee.
	We recommend that each local club in
the United States be appealed to for aid in
the national work of organization. We
recommend that the month of May be
made a "benefit” month for the National
Organization, and we urge local clubs
throughout the nation to give some kind of
entertainment during this month, the pro-
ceeds to go to the National Organization
Fund.
MISCELLANEOUS
	We recommend that brief articles written
by well known individuals shall be furnish-


ed at least once a month, or oftener if possi-
ble, by the headquarters at Philadelphia, to
the Press Committees of the various States
who are willing to receive them. Each
State Committee will ascertain the number
of papers willing to print these letters, and
will send to each a copy which has been
prepared at headquarters. In this way the
article will appear simultaneously all over
the United States, after the manner of a
syndicate letter.
	Our Committee is firmly convinced that,
if this Plan of Work can be carried out
carefully and wisely, our association may
meet at its next Annual Convention proud
in the consciousness of a membership doubt
led and a cause strengthened. Let our
Association know no idlers the coming
year but let it make “a hard pull, a strong
pull, and a pull altogether,” that we may
build an association whose power will be
felt from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and
from Canada to the Gulf.
	Submitted by Plan of Work Committee,
	CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT ,  Chairman.
	ANNA L. DIGGS,			}
	LAURA CLAY,			}	Members
	MARY G. HAY,			}
