NATIONAL PLAN OF WORK.

	THE following plan of work for 1896 was recommended by the N. A. W. S. A. at
the annual meeting in Washington, and
was adopted by the convention:
	Believing that the surest path to victory
lies in the united, earnest and harmonious
effort of a great and powerful organization,
based upon the one claim of "No sex in
citizenship," we recommend that the chief
line of work for the coming year shall be
further organization. Last year the Plan
of Work Committee said: We believe that
three things are of Supreme and immediate importance.
1. A practical plan of organization,
which shall unite in State and National
Associations sufficient numbers fairly to re-
present the true status of the question in
the minds of the public.
2. A method to bind the clubs more
closely to the State and National Associa-
tions, and to find a means of keeping every
club organized and alive until the complete
enfranchisement of women shall relieve it
of further responsibilities.
3. Methods to raise money with which
to conduct the necessary organization.
	In 1896 we believe still that these three
things are of "supreme and immediate im-
portance.” We believe the confidence es-
tablished in the possibilities of organization
resulting from the successes of 1895 will in-
spire each member of the Association to
resolve that twice the amount of money
shall be expended for this work in 1896,
and every member should join in the ambi-
tion to assist in producing a double club
membership by the next Annual Meeting
in 1897.
ORGANIZATION.
	We recommend that a standing Commit-
tee on Organization be continued and that
it be nominated by the Business Committee
and elected by the Convention, as last year.
	Through the generosity of our "Lady
Bountiful,” Mrs. Southworth, the N. A.
W. S. A. has been enabled to establish a
headquarters in Philadelphia. We have
long needed a central point from which our
work could be issued, and that we have at
last established a headquarters in a business
block, is a step indicative of increased dig-
nity and prosperity. It is now eminently
proper that as much of the organization
work as possible shall be placed in the
headquarters. We recommend that the
publication and mailing of the Bulletin and
all business connected with it be placed in
the headquarters. We recommend also
the clerical work necessarily arising from
the orders and mailing of the books for the
Course of Study be transferred to Phila-
delphia.
	It has been demonstrated that a compara-
tively large sum is required for clerk hire
in order to do a correspondence necessary
to do efficient field work. If double the
money is to be expended in the field the
coming year, we must expect to pay a sum
proportionately larger for office expenses.
We therefore recommend that a regular
clerk be allowed the Organization Commit-
tee, and that an office be provided by the
Committee convenient to its chairman.
	We recommend that each lecturer em-
ployed by the Organization Committee be
authorized to use the title "Lecturer and
Organizer of the N A. W. S. A.”
	We recommend-that the provisions in the

