[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 430 | Special Feature | Mexico City Claire | W. Noall]
\ + Ixtacihuatl 17,343' + Popocateptl Cuernavaca 17,887' » I @ Mexico City sits like a queen on her ancient mexXicd plain, more than 7,000 feet in altitude. In the spiritual heart of this capital are entwined unr told elements of time and civilizations whose polarities are worlds apart. Yet from this manyCl y colored band, from the repetitive rise and fall in the ways of man, a massive strength has emerged, a strength born of the welding of Claire W. Noall opposites through more than half a millennium of time. Through the firm clasp of brotherhood, the Latter-day Saints of the city are extending their feeling of unity. Matthew and I drove in from the southwest. After leaving flat Toluca Valley, we were suddenly in the midst of the dark volcanic peaks which rose in chaos at our elbows. Even more impressive were the violet-misted summits of the distant horizon. The Valley of Mexico, some sixty by thirty miles in dimension, is all but surrounded by these cumbres. At our side, a deep canyon dropped abruptly in a wooded thrust. Descending the winding slopes, we traversed a light-shafted pine forest; then, almost before we knew it, Highway 15 became the Paseo de la Reforma and we were intersecting the city on one of the world's handsomest boulevards. Quickly we recognized the resemblance to Europe's Champs Elysées of Paris, and to El Prado of Madrid. We later learned that Maximilian had landscaped three miles of this highway for his entrance to the palace in Chapultepec Park. 430 MEXICO CITY As we proceeded alongside, we loved the cool expanse of the park, with its two and three-hundred-year-old trees, voleanic boulders, and its winding waterways. Apartments and fine homes presently rose to our right. Columns and statues breathed their own splendor, with their lawns, pools, and fountains. To our left, the park opened wide, and we caught a glimpse of the completely modern buildings of the Anthropological Museum. On the grounds stands an ancient, 167-ton stone statue of Tlaloc, the Aztec god of rain. As modern as that is ancient, is the architecture of the fountain that plays in the first courts of the museum. Down a canopy-shaded steel column it sparkles some forty-two feet to the pool below. We found a day in this museum much too brief for what we wished to see. One day we left the lower part of the Reforma to visit El Zécalo the center of the Aztec capital for 200 years; later the heart of the Spanish colonial city. Today, Mexico's capital has a population of over five million and there is nothing left of Lake Texcoco, where the Aztecs, being banished by their neighbors, had built their city Tenochtitlan on two islands which they connected with long causeways. When the Spaniards came, the city had been 200 years in building. It had a population of over 300,000 citizens. And from the borders of El Zocalo rose resplendent pyramids, a temple, a palace, and a magnificent altar to the sun god. The Aztecs had filled wicker baskets with earth to develop floating gardens upon which they could raise life-giving plants. For the last sixty years before the Conquistadores arrived, they had dominated almost all the other cultures in their entire country—an incredible feat in terms of foot soldiers who climbed and descended enormously high divides, only to crest still other slopes, and then trail down to sea level again. Tribute came from this extended rule, and when the Spanish arrived, the Aztecs were wealthy in gold and buildings of almost unimaginable magnificence. Mochtezuma II, great-grandson of Mochtezuma I, who united this vast kingdom, bowed to Hernan Cortés without a struggle, thinking that the White God of prophecy had arrived. A year later, in an uprising of his people, he was executed. Meanwhile, the Spanish had commenced the job that left no stone standing of this marvelous array. With the help of Aztec slaves and with the use of Aztec masonry, they built their own structures around El Zocalo, including a large and highly gilded cathedral, and a national palace, the residency of the viceroys. Today, on this square, only one small pit of Aztec stones survives. But, fortunately, the Spanish did not destroy the calendar stone of El Zocalo. The Aztecs had worked out a more accurate system for telling time than then existed in Europe. This thirty-ton treasure is now mounted beside a pool in front of the Anthropological Museum. The conjunction of the old with the new is frequently repeated in today's capital. In the Palace of Fine Arts, styled in Mayan, Mixtec, and classical architecture, folk arts are displayed alongside aristocratic regalia once worn by grandees. On the stage that is screened by a 


 remarkable glass curtain from Tiffany's, New York, the Folklérico Ballet depicts historic phases of every Mexican province. The rhythms, the singing, and the playing of guitars, and more primitive instruments, all on stage, weave a thrilling spell for the informed spectator. The dancers are costumed in the bright-feathered green of the Aztecs, and in silks and cottons in scarlet, blue, black, white, and gold. The Floating Gardens indicate their own importance when considered in the light of the past. Some fourteen miles southeast of Mexico City, Xochimileo was once the home of Aztec nobles. The language is still spoken in this municipality. The canals are all that remain of former Lake Chaleo. Three lakes once all but covered the Valley of Mexico. The Spanish drained them, for during the rainy season Mexico City was often flooded. Drouth ensued, and part of the rich inheritance from Spain are several long, expertly constructed aqueducts, such as the one at Morelia, here shown. But all that is left of the three lakes are the Floating Gardens of Xochimilco—a colorful sight when the "tourist barges," decorated with artificial flowers, are filled. Visitors may reach for the fresh and brilliant carnations offered for sale by Indian women who, with swift, proud strokes, row their dugout canoes alongside the barges in the canals. Unlike the ancient nature of the Gardens is the architecture of University City, also located in a municipality outside Mexico City. Into this astounding complex the university moved in 1952. Today's enrollment exceeds 52,000 students. Every building is faced at least on one: side with mosaics of natural-colored stone, which portray both ancient and modern history. The north and west walls of the tower of the central library are decorated with stone murals by Juan O'Gorman. Still unknown is the history of the religious center at San Juan Teotihuacan, some twenty-nine miles northeast of Mexico City, an area apparently constructed by an unknown people, the Teotihuacanos, at least 1,000 years ago. This zone was later inhabited by the Toltecs; then by the Aztecs. Within a seven-mile square, pyramids and temples once shone resplendent in the bright sunlight, painted in ochre and scarlet. At the end of a two-mile avenue stands the largest structure of its kind known to the Americas, the ancient Pyramid of the Sun. It rises over 200 feet and measures almost 700 feet at its base. The adobe bricks were once faced with volcanic stone and covered with cement. A stairway on the west provides access to five terraces and to the top of the pyramid. The plaza was paved with voleanic stones, and facing one side of the square was the Temple of Quetzalcoatl, the god of the plumed serpent. A pyramidal corridor of this temple is decorated with row upon row of plumed snakes' heads, a common motif among the ancient peoples of this part of the Americas. After 1930 the real democratization of Mexico began. In 1940 the skyscrapers commenced to rise, one of which reached forty-four stories. Today, in this conjunction of the new with the old, one of the most 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR MORELIA AQUEDUCT Built by the Spaniards in 1789, when the city was known as Valodolid. The round arches, made of stone, support the aqueduct for carryin water. EN ROUTE FROM TOLUCA TO MEXICO CITY Leaving the desert plain, we suddenly entered the area of deep canyons and volcanic peaks. / PYRAMID OF THE SUN This majestic pyramid, northeast of Mexico City, rising to a height of 216 feet, is composed of five terraces. The upper terrace served as the base for an imposing temple, which has long since been destroyed. BELOW Detail of the plumed serpent head—QuetzalcoatI—on a temple which faces the I avenue that leads to the Pyramid of the Sun. MEXICO CITY beautiful cities in the world has taken shape. Off to the southeast on a clear day can be seen the snowy summits of the ''guardian" volcanoes, Popocatépetl and Ixtacihuatl. Industrialization has produced ever-increasing traffic on the boulevards. Handsome hotels are so crowded that reservations for visitors are necessary, sometimes weeks ahead. And in the heart of the city The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is now permitted to own property and to build chapels. On October 8, 1879, a group of brethren was called by President John Taylor to go to Mexico City. This was in response to the appeal of a man who requested the elders. Moses Thatcher, a leader, assisted especially by James Z. Stewart and Brother Meliton G. Tréjo, a convert who served as interpreter, arrived in Mexico City by way of New Orleans and Vera Cruz. Eight days later, on November 23, 1879, a branch of the Church was organized. In 1889, when the elders were withdrawn from the country owing to the prevailing unrest, the branch had 250 members. In 1901 the mission was reopened under the supervision of John Henry Smith, Anthony W. Ivins, Helaman Pratt, and Ammon M. Tenney. UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF MEXICO One of the many dramatic mosaics which face individual buildings in the university complex. JUNE 1966 Before any elder had ever entered Mexico City, a horesback company had penetrated the country from El Paso, Texas. The company left Salt Lake City in 1875. They spent nine months under the stars. Although they had been warned not to go into Mexico, they rode as far as Chihuahua by way of El Paso. And Brother Pratt, being without fear, continued on, to visit the Yaqui Indians in northern Mexico, who I still follow their ancient and primitive ways. In 1913, the elders had to withdraw once more from Mexico City. Brother Pratt corresponded with the Church members and visited the branch in the capital city whenever possible. Today, the Church has a school system comprising several elementary schools, and one high school in Mexico City. Whenever possible, Mexican-born teachers and administrators are appointed. And now, instead of being taught entirely in Spanish, the schools are taught one half in English. The bishops of the wards are Mexicans. In the capital, a stake is organized with several wards. The spirit. Of brotherhood contributes to a highly favorable kind of unity, and so we find a welcome in this city of international culture. THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO Tourist-laden, flower-bedecked barges create a gala atmosphere for the ancient canals.