[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 472 | The Home | Homemaking — Does Your Home Have a Personality? Hazel | S. Cannon]
She antiqued her twentyyear-old dining room set, the lines good but the finish marred, in ivory. An attractive new gold-framed mirror hangs above the buffet. Antiquing found its way into her bedroom also, but is executed differently. A brass bed is enhanced by lovely old Queen Anne chests on either side, refinished in a color called Venetian blue. A night stand commode, also renewed to match the chests, joins a comfortable chair. Gracing the commode is an artistic bouquet of Mary Jane's Flemish flowers (plastic flowers made elegant by special treatment). An allpurpose room, converted from a porch, strikes a fresh, happy note. The chalk white walls and black marbleized linoleum are a perfect foil for wrought iron metal chairs upholstered in a bright pinky-orange print. Other projects are still in the making, but one never doubts that the Johnson home will have personality.

472 her personality and that of her family. REFLECT YOUR PERSONALITY Houses are for people, not people for houses. What are your hobbies, your tastes, your interests, your pattern of living, your likes and dislikes? A house and its furnishings should be a logical outgrowth of the needs of the family. While homemakers would like to take advantage of the products of modern science— new techniques, materials, and textures—it is folly to bow to the fad of the moment, especially in major expenditures. Don't worry about what "'they" are doing this fall. Someone has wisely said that following a fad or making concessions to the latest vogue in home decoration can keep one's true "personality from coming through." TO DISCUSS 1. What purposes should a house fulfill? Note to leader: Try to elicit the following responses from the class a home must be functional; it must be suitable economically; it should possess individuality; it should be as beautiful as a homemaker can make it. 2. A rule of thumb in decorating is that nothing in a house is worth its space unless it is useful or beautiful or both. Can you justify this statement? Give examples. THE THEME! S THE THING Unity and interest are created when a room has a theme or focal point to coordinate its parts. One homemaker chose four handsome inexpensive prints of old colonial Williamsburg. Her husband skillfully framed the prints, painting the mats surrounding the pictures the exact color of the walls, which lends an unusual note. The livable color scheme for the room is carefully pulled from the prints, an old trick but still a very effective one for achieving harmony. Another woman created a room with a feeling that was different because she expressed a particular point of view. She built her living room around some family heirloom Jasperware Wedgewood plates. The blue plates with their white cameo reliefs are stunning with the light wedgewood-blue walls and washable white corduroy draperies she has made herself. Driftwood, gathered from the beach, is featured over the mantle of a modern home, along with contemporary glass in jewel tones. Your theme might be a piece of furniture you wish to feature, a fabric, a rug—anything you own or obtain or create which you feel comfortable with and to which you wish to give prominence. COLOR IS MAGIC Do certain colors ever make you happy, irritable, serene, or depressed? Color can accomplish more inexpensively than any other decorating ingredient. It is the magic which can unify odds and ends of furniture, minimize architectural. Defects, and make a charming home out of a dull one. As a rule it is best to have classic, simple backgrounds in neutral or subdued colors, and to use strongLESSON DEPARTMENT er color for accents. However, no one wants to obtain the effect in a room referred to years ago as "waiting room tan." One predominating color in a room is good, and large areas of one color in small rooms tend to create a sense of space. Larger rooms can tolerate color and pattern for warmth and softness. Color transition from one room to the adjoining room is also important. TO DISCUSS How can we become more sensitive to color and its use?
(The leader might draw from the class the following: reading of homemaking magazines; study with one's own home in mind, visits to stores selling home furnishings, museums, and_ public buildings; be observant of the use of color but not critical when visiting homes of others; be conscious of color combinations everywhere, including nature; converse with artists, and people who have a broad knowledge of color; experiment with swatches of fabric and color samples. Emphasize that learning about color can be a thrilling experience throughout a homemaker's life.) SUMMARY The selection of furniture and its arrangement, floor coverings, the exciting subject of accessories —these are a few of the numerous areas to explore and study to aid you in changing a house into a home. Awareness and study will also help you to develop a feeling for good design, proportion, and balance. In Roman mythology we read of Janus, guardian of the gates and doors, who is represented by two faces because every door looks two ways. It is also said that one face is looking to the past, while the other scans the present and the future. We 


 should try to look at both the past and the present with our minds and our affections in order to express personality in our homes. Learn to be happy in living with what you have. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Few, indeed, can redecorate and/or add to furnishings all at once. It takes work and planning. Make a tentative ode Or five-year-plan for home improvement, listing each of the years across a page and under each year the anticipated improvements, replacements, or additions, with the estimated cost. Some years, of course, you may do nothing. Star those items you or your family can do yourselves. Example: Under 1966 you may plan new linoleum for the kitchen—$100.00, *new cafe-style curtains for kitchen, and *materials to refinish top of David's study desk— $5.00. FIRE HAZARD OF CLEANING CLOTHS USING SOLUTION IN MAY HOMEMAKING LESSON The February 1966 Relief Society Magazine, page 144, item 8, of the work meeting lesson for May, contains a suggestion for a solution for cleaning medium and darkcolored wood. The suggested solution is made by adding 3 tablespoons of boiled linseed oil and 1 tablespoon of turpentine to 1 quart of hot water. While this is an effective cleaning solution, there is danger of fire by spontaneous combustion if the cloths used in applying the solution are not carefully discarded or destroyed. They can be placed in metal cans with tight-fitting lids, or hung on a clothesline outside in the shade, where air circulates around them, before disposing of them. They should never be left in a room, in a drawer, or in a place where heat, sunlight, or fuel could cause the linseed oil to ignite.
