[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 410 | General Feature | Editorial: A Relief Society History Making Event Belle | S. Spafford]
EDITORIAL @ it must have been an impressive occasion that Thursday afternoon 124 years ago when eighteen sisters attentively listened to their beloved leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith, say, ''l now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote.'' These were women residing in what was then a western frontier town of the United States called Nauvoo. The sisters had accepted the restored gospel of Christ and had within them a-burning desire to do their part in the work of the Church. They believed that if they could be formed into a Ladies Society whereby their means and efforts might be combined, they could more effectively serve, particularly with regard to the Nauvoo Temple. They had sought an organization at the hands of the Prophet, and under the inspiration of the Lord, he had organized them under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood, a unique organization for women in all the world. Addressing the eighteen women assembled on that memorable occasion of the founding of Relief Society, Elder John Taylor, who had accompanied the Prophet to the meeting, said that he ''rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the laws of Heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner.'' He praye that "'the blessings of Heaven might rest on this institution henceforth." As the years have moved along, hundreds of thousands of women residing in many parts of the world have rejoiced that this Society was organized. They have seen it move forward, blessed of Heaven. Through the years the sisters of Relief Society have given loyal, devoted, and unselfish service to the Priesthood. They have ministered to the downtrodden; they have nursed the sick and fed the hungry; they have sustained those whose souls were weary. Through the Society the graces of lovely womanhood have been nurtured, and the arts and skills of glorious motherhood have been developed. Talents have been enlarged upon and put to worthy uses. Volume 

 Number 6 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Coun @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer The sisters have been blessed individually and collectively, as they have labored in the fulfillment of the purposes set for the Society by God's chosen prophets. It was a blessed day, indeed, when, as an aid in furthering the work of this organization, the Society was given a Magazine of its own, ''to be edited, managed, and published by the General Authorities of the Society.'' This publication has served as the voice of Relief Society. It has helped to unify and standardize the work. It has served as a lesson manual for the educational courses. It has been an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women. Its contents have been animated by the spirit of the gospel and its gospel teaching articles by Priesthood and Relief Society leaders have strengthened faith and built testimonies. In the Centenary of Relief Society, issued on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, we read, ''This Magazine belongs by right to every woman of the Church.'' While language barriers stand in the way of full realization of this at the present time, a great step forward has been made as the Magazine becomes available in Spanish for the many Spanish-speaking sisters throughout the Church. The General Board rejoices that this instrument which has proven so valuable to the English-speaking sisters and such an important factor in the strength of their Relief Societies, may now intimately touch and influence the lives of the Spanish-speaking sisters and reach into their Relief Societies as a bulwark of strength. The advent of The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language is a history-making event. May it bless our beloved Spanish-speaking sisters. May it bless their homes. May it bless their families. May it be a truly effective instrument in helping the Spanish-speaking Relief Societies to move forward in an even more glorious manner, is our earnest prayer. —B. S. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R.