[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Great Certainties Young]

The Great Certainties
A Message to the Youth of America
Elder Levi Edgar Young
Of the First Council of Seventy
THE one glorious blessing that we Americans enjoy is the fact that wherever we go from the shores of the Atlantic to those of the Pacific, from Canada to Mexico, there is that definite knowledge that behind the beliefs and activities of our citizenry are the sacred ideals of democracy and the Christian religion. Nothing in the whole scheme of American life offers greater assurance for the stability of our country's democratic institutions than the religious conditions out of which we were born. To us, democracy is a devotion.
Out of the Old World, God created the New World. Out of the centuries of Old World customs and traditions, grew America with its opportunities and its store of life and beauty for humanity. The United States is but another gift of God to bestow freedom upon mankind; freedom from the influence of past wrongs. America has given the human race a wider and deeper concept of the dignity of man.
The religious people who settled these shores were absolute in their certainty that "God created man in His own image." Human history has felt no words more eventful than these. It is certain that the Prophet Moses was nearer to our own time in his thought than many of the other great thinkers of the world. There is a modern tone in his narrative. It is God in the beginning, which is our first great certainty: "He hath made everything beautiful in its time; also He hath set eternity in the heart of man." Man was free to live and to "looketh into the perfect law of liberty."
We Americans know for a certainty that Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, lived a life that changed the history of mankind more deeply, more widely, and more permanently that any other from the beginning of time to the present. He gave us the principles of eternal life, and has made the quest for Truth a divine duty, that we may know for ourselves that "In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men." In words majestic and beautiful, has Jesus expressed His Mission: "For behold, this is my work and my glory?to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."
Here in name and to a large degree in truth, Jesus Christ is confessed. The laws of God are recognized as the highest laws, and the name of the Son of Man and His teachings are honored. The day of His birth and His resurrection are regarded with sacred thought. The first day of every week Americans have been taught to keep holy as a Sabbath day.
In one of the most illuminating texts of the Gospel, St. John tells us that "He knew that He came from God and went to God." Jesus was the Son of the Living God, and to His Father He returned after His mission on earth. If this was the great certainty of the Redeemer, it is the great certainty of the Christian world. It is not obtained from books, nor will it come as a result of learning. It is a divine truth deeply set in the soul of man. We like the simple description which Victor Hugo gives of the old lady: "A pious creature, poor, and charitable to the poor, and even to the rich; who could just write her name, but believed in God, which is knowledge."
The final forces as we have the lesson and certainty from the life of the Savior are the spiritual forces. They decide all issues where truth and right are at stake.
HERE in America we have been living for many years in a period in which men have sacrificed principles for the sake of settling in an easy manner questions which God was determined should not be settled until they were settled right. The time has come when either Jesus the Christ must become the leader of mankind, or Caesar. From the days of ancient Chaldea to the present, a period of thirty-five hundred years, kingdoms and nations have been born out of carnage and war. So too, nations have perished, after they have come to the zenith of their power through some military leader. "Ideals, laws, and constitutions have been temporary effulgences," writes Homer Lea, "and are existent only as the military strength remains." Yes, it must be Christ or Caesar.
We are all wishing for Peace, but the great battle of God has not been fought out as yet, and we will see more of it in our day. Yet, it is a simple cry, this cry of Peace. Peace will be the blessings of nations when the peace spirit has entered the hearts of men, for Peace must of necessity come from within. "If you will humble yourselves in mighty prayer and faith in the sincerity of your hearts," says a prophet, "then will I grant unto you a view of all things that you desire to see." This trust is a glorious opportunity for all people. Verily the two great springs of knowledge are ever before us: The word of God as given to Moses at Sinai: "I am the Lord thy God;" and the word of Jesus Christ: "Because I live, ye shall also live." "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God." These are the messages that will save the world and bring the Peace for which we are all praying.
Our duties are fraught with portentous responsibilities. This present life must be made richer by men who can lead us to the Light of God. Amid the sorrows of this war-torn world, it must be remembered that there are good men walking the earth and beckoning us to follow them to the future?not abreast of us, but ahead of us. Religion explains them as men blessed of heaven; men so spiritually endowed as to be able to respond to the inspiration of the Infinite, which they know comes from God. They are good men, and wonderful is the power of goodness. There is a true Light which "lighteth every man that cometh into the world." God reveals His principles of eternal life to men who have discerning vision and deep faith. The world has always had such men; it has such men today. God has spoken in times past; He will speak in days to come. We need the teachings of the Old Law and the truths of the New.
While our minds are on the battlefields, and we see the hate of man for man, the greatest spiritual disease of all, where poisonous ideas fly at us from all directions, we come to realize that our only armor is faith in the great certainties: faith in the religious and the democratic ways of life, faith in the forces which are to make the world the world it ought to be. The Light is spreading slowly. The dawn reaches toward the day, and the day will be forever.
There is another divine truth of which we are certain. In the history of nations, no government ever existed which gave to mankind the glory of freedom and democracy as America has done since the beginning of her career. The statesmen who created the Constitution of the United States gave their best thought and purposes to the charter they had written, and Madame de Stael said to Edward Everett in Paris on one occasion: "You Americans are the advance guard of the human race."
It has been said by a prophet of God: "We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of men, and that He holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, either in making laws or administering them, for the good and safety of society." The building of this nation has been a long, solemn, and sacred task. It has been the work of men of the loftiest ideals of life, who have looked upon their government as something over which Divine Providence has had an influence. Almost alone among the governments of the world, they have been in the habit of invoking the Divine blessing upon their deliberations in their legislative bodies; and on every festive occasion they have given their hearts in prayer.
A prophet has said: "We say that the Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun."
America needs re-idealizing. It needs higher moral laws and spiritual standards. Its people must work together in a common loyalty. William Penn once wrote: "Governments, like clocks, go from the motion men give them, and as governments are made and moved by man, so by them they are ruined too. Let men be good, and the government cannot be bad. But if men be bad, let the government be ever so good, they will endeavor to warp and spoil it in their turn."
TODAY, at this very hour, millions of the youth of America are fighting in foreign climes to preserve our government and its flag. Theirs is a great sacrifice. They have given up everything for their country and for their God. Theirs will be a halo of glory. They are the sons and daughters of the best of the world. We all realize that we are in America, and we are here to live. We hold in holy trust and sacred gratitude our heritage, and we will, with the help of God and the youth who have gone to war, maintain our democracy and free agency as long as time shall last.
And now a word to you soldier boys. You have exemplified the character of the warriors of Sparta of old and declared that "The enemy shall not pass here." What a valorous spirit! You are the hope of your country, and remember that your fitness for all future trust depends upon what you are now. No good soldier ever looks to self, but to God. Above all things, be men of honor. You have vowed your lives to your country?given to it knightly lives. Because you have to fight with machines and airplanes instead of lances as in days of old, you will face more ghastly dangers. Remember the chivalry of your fathers when danger besets you. Remember Pearl Harbor, and you will be true men. Bind courage and truth like shields about your necks, write them on the tablets of your hearts.
To the mothers whose sons have given their lives that this Government might live: the Saviour of the world has given a divine confidence. He taught that death is the fulfillment of hope, the advancing of plans, the expanding of life. They had unfaltering purpose, and in their consent to give all for their country, they have conquered death. They have been glorified, for they have finished the work He has given them to do.
At this hour the spirits of your sons are inspiring thousands, yea millions of the youth of America, who will continue to be our shield and our strength. It is of such that the poet Southey once wrote:
"... Breaking through the gloom
With radiant glory from thy trophied tomb,
The sacred splendour of thy deathless name
Shall grace and guard thy country's martial fame.
Far-seen shall blaze the unextinguished flame,
A mighty beacon, lighting glory's way;
With living lustre the proud land adorn,
And shine and save, through ages yet unborn."
When the American people realize deeply in their souls that the ideal of education and culture find their inspiration and nourishment in the divine ideas of Jesus of Nazareth, and take their place in the great living world purpose of the Saviour of mankind, when thought and literature and art and knowledge and life are brought into subjection to the obedience of Christ, then the true victory shall come, for the humble Galilean has conquered, and the world will witness the time:
When the war drum throbs no longer,
And the battle flag is furled,
In the Parliament of man,
The Federation of the world.
I pray that the Kingdom of God may become the Kingdom of the earth, when righteousness and truth will reign and the glory of the Lord be the guiding Light of the nations of the world.
The above address was delivered Sunday morning, June 14, 1942, as a part of the Columbia "Church of the Air" program, and is reprinted from Deseret News, Church Edition, Saturday, June 20, 1942, by courtesy of Elder Levi Edgar Young and Deseret News.