[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Place in Lewis]

Women's Place in American Radio
Dorothy Lewis
Coordinator of Listener Activities, National Association of Broadcasters
CALVIN COOLIDGE called our attention to the New England adage?"Wear it out, eat it up, make it do." Today, often quoted as a war slogan, it becomes patriotic, even fashionable, to follow that sound advice. As a nation, we are salvage conscious, and our people are re-dedicated to the so-called old-fashioned virtues of thrift, economy, and self-sacrifice. We are in the process of re-evaluating "things" and the purposes they serve in home, community, and the world. It is quite possible that the net result will be a revitalized people who will be conditioned to fashion a post-war world.
Following the first world war, there developed a period in which material things became of paramount importance. Scientific research and man's inventive genius overreached a commensurate spiritual understanding of the significant values involved. It is not surprising that radio, along with vacuum cleaners, electric refrigerators, to name a few, was numbered among the new toys. We were delighted with each improvement in design and in better reception. What we failed to realize was the fact that in radio we have an invention that carries with it a unique responsibility.
Participation in the American system of radio imposes certain obligations. Every time we listen, we create character. Latest figures indicate that there are 56,000,000 receiving sets in operation in the United States. Of all the radios in the world, more than half are owned by Americans. There is scarcely a person who does not come under radio's spell and domination. It is an integral part of most people's homes. There are more radios than telephones in our country, even than bath tubs! This means that women, mothers, and homemakers, form the major number of listeners and must be held accountable for the proper use to which radio is put. Since statistics reveal the fact that the average person listens somewhat over five hours a day, we face a challenge of stewardship. It may be said that the hand that rocked the cradle, today also turns the dial.
TO understand the American system of broadcasting is one of our first duties. Let us reduce it to an ABC formula. Our small radio cabinet is a sort of strongbox that we unlock with a magic combination of letters to discover treasures of music, entertainment, and education. Indeed, by radio too, our alphabet has grown to assume new importance. Let us take "A" for example, as standing for air channels or air waves. These belong to us all. Radio waves travel over pathways which have existed since the beginning of time. The extraordinary fact is that some 900 stations in the United States are actually sending their broadcasts over but 106 radio channels. It is not possible for all 900 stations to reach our various homes, so we come to the "B" of this radio alphabet.
"B" stands for bureau, a branch of our Federal Government which acts as a traffic cop on these air waves, preventing head-on collisions and sideswiping. It is known as the Federal Communications Commission, and it regulates the technical procedures of the business, under a charter by Congress.
"C" may stand for companies that are licensed by this Government bureau to use certain air channels. It must be remembered that radio is free in our country. Station managers are actually custodians of the air waves. Each is a free agent with few restrictions save those designed to preserve decency and justice. We, the public, owe much to these radio executives who work night as well as day to keep radio functioning smoothly and excitingly.
From "D" to "W" may be interpreted as representing the innumerable combinations of letters that guide us to our selected radio entertainment. Next comes "X." Reminiscent of algebra days, "X" is a symbol for the unknown quantity. In radio, this unknown quantity is public opinion. Only of late has this significant "X" problem begun to be solved. Therefore, we, the listeners, have two vital functions to perform. The first concerns the responsibility as citizens, since we, through Congress, help to form policies for the Federal Communications Commission. It is a duty to see that this body keeps within its charter. If we cherish our freedom of the air, we should be alert to any encroachment on it. The second function is that of editors?conscious and unconscious. Through millions of letters sent to stations, we express our wishes. We, as stockholders, have a voice in the business. The only gauge which broadcasters have of program acceptance is through our active participation. Radio in America is dominated, and always will be dominated, only by the listening public?and nobody else.
Unconsciously then, we influence radio programming by constant editorial comment expressed to our friends. Mr. David Sarnoff has said of American radio that it is "of the people, for the people, and by the people." And again, that "In America, the richest man cannot buy for himself what the poorest man gets free by radio."
THE broadcasters, recognizing their debt to the public, developed a "Code" in 1939 with sections dealing with newscasts, religious broadcasts, children's programs, controversial issues, etc. Every listener should have a copy of this Code?since it belongs to the public and not the broadcasters. The fair play that the Code enforces reminds one of the story that Miss Dorothy Thompson, news commentator, tells about the demonstrations in Hyde Park in London which she claims are the reason there have been no revolutions in England for several centuries. She overheard a "Bobby" directing traffic in this wise: "All those of you that believe in vivisection go to the right?those that want to kill the King go to the left." Radio may be our Hyde Park. The broadcasters "Code" helps to protect free speech.
Radio executives have an ever-present problem of trying to please a majority while working to raise the program level to satisfy a constructively critical minority. To paraphrase Lincoln?radio can please some of the people all of the time, all of the people some of the time, but not all of the people all of the time. Radio in America is a trial and error method, a free enterprise. Certainly, it is apparent that the listeners in America play a far more important part than that of a passive public in totalitarian states. Since radio is a common denominator and a democratic process, listeners must learn to accept their challenge for thoughtful cooperation.
Recognizing the potentiality of this new medium, we, in America, should be alert to do our utmost in directing and maintaining its highest standards. To reiterate, women play a vital role, and they are gradually recognizing their obligations in many ways.
1. Women are guiding the listening habits of their families and editing the program intake, thus raising the standard of their own tastes and improving that of their associates.
2. Women are studying radio at home, at clubs, and through classes at local radio colleges or high school workshops. Many clubs and Parent-Teacher Associations are setting up courses in the history of radio, its operation, its programming, and social implication. Radio executives and radio educators address such groups.
3. All women can materially aid radio stations and advertisers by becoming vocal in expressing program preferences. Such utterances should not be made in a Carrie Nation spirit, but as constructive criticism. Most useful, is the constant expression of favorable, positive appreciation of the many superlative broadcasts always available.
4. Mothers should carefully check the listening of their children and guide them to an interest in the better things. In a recent issue of the Ladies Home Journal, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, when asked whether she thought horror and gangster programs should be legislated off the air, stated that if parents prevented their children from listening, sponsors and stations would soon lose incentive to broadcast them. The use of radio can serve as one valuable type of discipline greatly needed in many modern homes.
5. Radio as a supplement to school work should be encouraged by parents.
These are some things that individuals are doing. Collectively, women have begun to evaluate and promote radio in its relation to home and a changing social order.
1. Many communities and states have established Radio Councils, largely through the foresight and effort of women. These Councils are civic autonomous bodies made up of elected representatives, men and women from club, civic, and educational groups of the community, sometimes numbering 100,000 potential members. On every Council board are representatives of the radio industry to preserve a working democracy. Broadly speaking, the Council purposes are to interpret the problems of radio broadcasting to the listeners and to bring to the radio industry the wishes of the public. In implementing that simple statement, Councils have inaugurated many important activities.
2. Since we must consider the pattern of radio programming in our country as a series of audible mosaics, we discover that each city's offerings are quite different. What is heard in Oshkosh differs considerably from the programs in Walla Walla. Why? Because network programs are not carried everywhere; sponsors do not enter every market; transcribed programs vary and local originators are unique to the community. Consequently, there is a need to evaluate available programs in each local area. Councils have such evaluation committees, and they issue accredited lists of good listening. These lists are distributed widely.
3. Councils often have children's program committees that help to promote the good children's programs and that assist stations in building new ones, through cooperation of librarians, school teachers and parent groups. In Portland, Ore., the Portland Radio Council issued 14,000 booklets telling about a children's feature, "Reading is Fun." In addition, for one week a local department store window was arranged as a library scene, showing books and mannequins, with a streamer announcing the time, day and station of the show. Thus the Council promoted the show, cooperating with the broadcasters.
4. One of the important functions of the Councils and of Radio chairmen is cooperation with the schools, since there is a definite place for the layman in radio education. Councils help to equip schools with radios, as only about 25 percent have them today. They encourage teachers to utilize radio to the enrichment of the educational process. At present it is estimated that only about 8 percent of our teachers use radio as a supplementary tool. Children understand this new medium and learn readily through our air-way of life.
A rare example of the place of laymen in this educational field is in Texas, where radio has been included in the educational program by the State Board of Education. The "Texas School of the Air" is broadcasting every school day to 500,000 pupils and 20,000 teachers in some 5,000 schools. It is tax-supported and endorsed by 180,000 P. T. A. Members and 70,000 club women. Private citizens have helped in its beginning to underwrite the project and show educators the way. Broadcasters have eagerly set aside the necessary time and cooperated whole-heartedly in production.
The following resolution, in various forms, has been passed during 1942 by several national organizations. It reads in part as follows:
WHEREAS?education for our youth has always been of paramount importance and is now of even greater significance?
RESOLVED?that the (name of organization) recommends to the Federal Office of Education and all State Boards of Education that the use of radio in the classroom be recognized and made an integral part of the school curricular under a plan which will place control in the hands of the classroom teacher, to the end that the children may be properly guided in respect to their listening habits, and that the selection of programs for classroom use be made with a view to bringing to the students an understanding of all phases of radio broadcasting, including its educational, cultural, social, news, and entertainment contributions.
While many groups produce programs of value to the community, fortunately most clubs or organizations realize that their special interests have no appeal to the general radio audience. However, one valuable contribution was a series produced by the Utah Congress of Parents and Teachers called, "Today's Children?Tomorrow's Adults." This program was helpful to all parents within the listening area. Station managements welcome such worthwhile cooperation, of course.
RADIO through individual effort and through Councils will aid materially in the war effort. Statistics show that 60 percent of the listeners gain information of war news by radio. Almost at once the Radio Council of Greater Cleveland sensed the importance of the listener attitude on war news. A plan of air news wardens was set up, thereby enlisting a large segment of its membership in a campaign of intelligent listening to war news. Other groups followed, and the "Ten Commandments" from the Louisville Radio Council is quoted:
1. Select intelligently your daily listenings.
2. Listen accurately to war news commentators.
3. Listen consistently until news is completed.
4. Do not let your emotions affect your better judgment.
5. Learn to separate news from possible propaganda.
6. Listen cautiously to foreign broadcasts from Germany, Italy, and Japan.
7. Refrain from circulating rumors.
8. Listen calmly to bad news.
9. Keep faith in our Government.
10. Keep faith in our fighting forces.
Listeners will attend closely to local stations for blackout and raid news. Listeners must learn or be taught to pay attention to suggestions from the Government and local defense boards regarding salvage, home nursing, first aid, rationing, etc. Radio being a fluid, flexible medium will carry the heavy burden as a means of war intelligence transmission.
Radio is doing a phenomenal job in bringing the homeland to our armed forces scattered over the world by means of weekly shortwave broadcasts. The news of global conflict, as brought by editors and commentators, is so extraordinary that it is not yet properly evaluated. Listeners at home must apprize the momentous services of radio in wartime.
Again, matters of priority will affect our American system of radio. Sponsors now holding but 35 percent of radio time may be forced to withdraw or reduce their appropriations. Listeners should help by buying products of those sponsors of the good programs and of whose merchandise they approve. Broadcasters will make efforts to avoid breaches of good taste and of using advertising copy that offends the sensibilities. They are now in the throes of making many such adjustments. Listeners, when vocal, should be patient and considerate.
Surely we have in the American system of broadcasting a remarkable opportunity to demonstrate a high type of democracy and to maintain one of our greatest freedoms?freedom of the air. It is our cooperative privilege. Edward Everett Hale said, "Coming together is a beginning. Keeping together is progress. Working together is success." This is a wartime, an all-time challenge to listeners and broadcasters.