[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Avard Fairbanks]

Avard Fairbanks EMINENT UTAH-BORN SCULPTOR N the cover of this issue of the Magazine is reproduced the first of four plaques which are to appear consecutively on the coyers of the September, October, November, and December issues.
These plaques, designed for the base of the proposed Relief Society memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, are the work of Dr. Avard Fairbanks, internationally renowned, Utah-born sculptor, and their idealism and beauty reveal anew the gifts and training of their distinguished creator. Doctor Fairbanks was born in Provo, Utah, March 2, 1897, the son of John B. Fairbanks, gifted Utah artist, from whom he probably inherited his skill. At the age of twelve, Avard Fairbanks became interested in sculpture, and showed such remarkable ability that in 1910 and 1911 he received scholarships at the Art Students' League in New York, studying under James Earle Fraser. He was only fourteen years of age when his work was exhibited at the National Academy of Design in 1911. 'Two years later he went to Paris to study at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts with Injalbert, the Academie Colarossi, and the Ecole de la Grande Chaumiere. 'The outbreak of World War I, however, forced him to return to the United States.
Many of the works of Doctor Fairbanks are familiar to Relief Society women, particularly "The Tragedy Page 648 of Winter Quarters" created to mark the Mormon Pioneer cemetery in Florence, Nebraska, and referred to by the Omaha Bee-News as "'probably Omaha's finest bit of statuary," and "New Frontiers,' now in the Church Museum, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, which was reproduced on the cover of the July 1941
Magazine. His works include a number of large studies in the Hawaiian Islands, among them the "Hawaiian Motherhood" fountain, the "Blessing of Joseph" and decorative friezes on the Hawaiian Temple at Laie, Oahu. One of his latest creations and perhaps one of his finest works is the statue "Lincoln the Frontiersman" completed last year to be erected at the Ewa Plantation School near Honolulu. At Fort Lewis, Washington, is his famous "Ninety-First Division Memorial," and at Vancouver, Washington is his "Pioneer Mother Memorial." "Rain" was selected among the works of America's greatest sculptors for the Brookgreen Gardens in South Carolina. The Ann Arbor News, July 1941, gives the following interesting facts about Doctor Fairbanks: "His career as a teacher of sculpture began in 1920, when he was appointed assistant professor of art at the University of Oregon. He remained there until 1927, when he received a Guggenheim fellowship which enabled him to do creative sculpture at Florence, Italy. "He came to the University of AVARD FAIRBANKS Back row, left to night: Justin F.
Front row, left to nght: Virgil F., Jonathan I. Eo, Beatrice Maude Fox Fairbanks, David Nathaniel, and Grant Ruthven.
Michigan in 1929 as associate professor of sculpture in the Institute of Fine Arts, which was established at that time.... "Dr.
Fairbanks holds several degrees: bachelor of fine arts, Yale University, 1925; master of fine arts, University of Washington, 1929; master of arts in anatomy, University of Michigan, 1933; and doctor of philosophy in anatomy, University of Michigan, 1936. "Of his four degrees, the last two are the most unusual, for in earning them he attended the University medical school, taking courses in anatomy right along with medical students. His medical studies were not designed to prepare him for a medical career?but only, he explains, to better fit him as a sculptor. Avard F., Jr., Eugene F., Avard Fairbanks, Elliott Aldron, ""The artist,' says Doctor Fairbanks, 'must study the creation of life and apply that understanding to his interpretation of life.
There is a basic correlation between the underlying structural elements of life to a work of art. Art, as in a portrait or a statue of an individual, must reflect more than that which is superficial.' "Doctor Fairbanks explains that an artist must capture the rhythm of life, the flow of muscles, the character of an individual, and make his work dynamic rather than static. He must, he says, have an understanding of life itself, of the development of and rhythm of the body, and of the basic underlying patterns. "But the correlation of anatomy to design is broader than the mechanistic to Doctor Fairbanks, for ideal- 650 ism too is important. It is through the physical that the latter finds its means of expression.... "As for masterpieces, whether in paint or clay, Dr.
Fairbanks sees them as 'portraits of ideals, the spirit of a cause or of a people, not just of persons.' "Art, to Doctor Fairbanks, is a truly democratic method of interpretation, whereby ideals may be presented and preserved for the understanding of all races, all generations. It is, accordingly, to Doctor Fairbanks, a means of attaining better international understanding and good will.... "Probably best known in Ann Arbor as the creator of animals out of snow and ice which appear so life-like that they seem ready to walk away from the Fairbanks' residence at 1051
Lincoln Avenue, Doctor Fairbanks is unlike the popular conception of an artist. He wears an ordinary hair cut, the usual business man's clothes and can talk of many things besides art...." [N Honolulu in 1918, Doctor Fairbanks was married to Beatrice Maude Fox. Dr. And Mrs.
Fairbanks are the parents of eight sons: Avard, Jr., 23; Eugene F., 21; Elliott Aldron, 19; Justin F., 16; Virgil F., 12; Jonathan Leo, 9; David Nathaniel, 6; Grant Ruthven, 4. Avard Jr., the oldest boy, holds the degrees of B. S. And MS. And at present is doing research in defense for the Government in the University of Michigan Physics Labratory. 'The second son, Eugene, is in  the Medical School of the University of Michigan and is a second lieutenant in the Medical Administration Corps. The third boy, Eliott, is in the R. O. T. C. Of the University of Michigan, and is studying in the Engineering school, Justin is a Star Scout and has been con-.
Nected with the Emergency Relief Corps of the Boy Scouts of America.. Virgil, the fifth boy, has this summer become a Scout, passing his Tenderfoot tests, and is now ready for his second class awards.
Jonathan is a Cub Scout: His name being Jonathan Leo, he seems to take after his uncle, J. Leo Fairbanks, head of the Department of Art at the Oregon State College in Corvallis, Oregon, for he is apt in drawing and ? painting. He is also greatly interested in the Natural Sciences. David, six years old, begins school this fall, but can already read and do arithmetic. Grant Ruthven, the eighth son, was named after President Heber J. Grant. Doctor Fairbanks in referring to the accompanying picture of his family said: "The fine appearance of all the little boys and the larger ones, too, is due to Mrs. Fairbanks, who is in the center of the picture. She is rightly placed for she holds that position in the Fairbanks family in Ann Arbor.
Superlative words cannot speak the work she does as the mother of a grand family. She is the life, the inspiration, the guiding star of men of tomorrow. She is an ideal for American motherhood." The Avard Fairbanks family is a gifted and highly respected Latter-day Saint family.