[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Belle S. Spafford]
612 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1942 
parents  are  satisfying  their  own  emo- 
tional needs,  rather  than  thinking  of 
the  youth  in  such  a  way  as  best  to 
fit  him  for  the  grim  future  facing 
him. 
The  stress  of  war  should  not  divert 
us  from  our  great  mission  as  par- 
ents. Never  before  has  the  chal- 
lenge to  noble  parenthood  been 
quite  so  great.  We  should  not 
"crack  down"  on  young  people  for 
their  newly  exploited  freedom,  but 
we  should  attempt  to  enlist  their 
confidence  in  our  wisdom  and  leader- 
ship. It  is  hopeless,  and  wrong,  to 
try  to  prevent  their  growing  up  and 
taking  their  places  in  the  great  task 
of  wmning  the  war.  We  should 
treat  them  as  confederates  in  a  great 
cause,  not  as  subordinates. 
r\F  the  many  timely  suggestions 
that  might  be  made  to  parents, 
we  suggest,  first,  that  in  our  homes 
an  effort  be  made  to  create  an  at- 
mosphere of  confidence  and  faith  in 
the  future.  This  .faith  does  not 
mean  failure  to  face  and  discuss  free- 
ly the  grim  realities  of  the  war.  But 
if  we  are  to  fight  our  way  through 
the  present  darkness  as  free  and  en- 
lightened people,  we  must  constant- 
ly think  that  the  great  task  of  pre- 
serving the  world  tor  our  child  can 
and  will  be  accomplished.  Many 
must  die  for  that  cause,  but  it  is  not 
hopeless  to  fight  for  it  unless  in  our 
homes  we  feel  it  is  hopeless. 
Second,  patriotism  should  right- 
ly enter  into  our  counseling  with 
youth  about  their  problems.  But 
we  should  not  undermine  the  patri- 
otism of  young  people  by  associating 
this  appeal  with  everyday  trivia.  To 
ask  young  people  to  do  routine 
chores  because  it  is  'patriotic"  may 
create  unpleasant  feelings  about  be- 
mg  patriotic.  However,  we  should 
encourage  young  people  to  save 
money,  for  example,  for  future  edu- 
cation and  homemaking.  Patriotic 
purchase  of  bonds  is  an  excellent 
ideal  to  encourage.  If  young  people 
can  be  made  to  feel  that  they  are 
contributing  to  the  war  effort  in  a 
grown-up  and  important  way,  they 
will  obtain  valuable  development 
from  this  crisis.  Incidentally,  drain- 
ing off  surplus  wages  through  bond 
purchases  may  help  prevent  other 
difficulties  of  youth.  Young  people 
need  to  see  that  there  are  future 
values  worth  working  and  saving 
money  and  themselves  for.  This 
teaching  should  apply  to  morals  as 
well  as  to  money. 
A  third  thought  is  that  we  should 
attempt  to  preserve  some  semblance 
of  normalcy  in  our  family  life.  The 
war  is  serious,  but  that  doesn't  mean 
everything  in  our  old  way  of  doing 
must  go  at  once.  Complete  breaks 
from  all  normal  activities  and  rela- 
tionships may  create  a  sense  of  being 
lost,  of  not  "belonging"  in  the  new 
world.  A  gradual  transition,  when- 
ever possible,  permits  youth  to  as- 
sume the  adult  role  without  undue 
shock  and  confusion.  This  will  be 
helpful  to  both  parent  and  youth. 
Fourth,  we  need  to  revise  frequent- 
ly, if  not  continuously,  our  ideas 
about  the  maturity  of  our  children. 
If  we  properly  respect  the  needs  of 
our  children  at  successive  ages,  al- 
ways recognizing  the  full  measure 
of  their  maturity,  there  is  little  need 
for  their  compensating  by  bizarre 
and  ridiculous  behavior,  such  as 
smoking,  drinking,  reckless  driving, 
and  **wild"  parties.  An  effective  de- 
vise for  enlisting  the  confidence  of

YOUTH  IN  A  WAR-TORN  WORLD  613 
a  young  person  is  to  talk  to  him  and  time  like  this  when  the  anxieties  of 
treat  him  as  though  he  really  is  the  youth  are  so  overwhelming.    Often 
mature  person  he  would  like  to  be.  under  the  bold  front  of  the  suddenly 
Fifth,  we  should  always  keep  the  ^^^'^  yo"*,   are   deep   anxieties 
door  open  for  youth  to  seek  counsel,  ^at  he  dares  not  reveal  now  tha 
They  should  be  judiciously  taught  to  he  is  a  man  and  has  supposedly   put 
thinkhopefuUy  into  the  future  They  away  childish  things^     It  heps  him 
should  learn  to  face  hardships  with  'nfimtely  to  discuss  his  anxiet.es  and 
the     fortitude     that    conies    only  perhaps  his  feelings  of  guilt  with  an 
through  a  sensible  philosophy.  They  understanding  parent  one  who  will 
should  be  taught  that  wars  have  "o*  condemn,  but  who  will  intelli- 
been  fought  before,  and  that  no  war  gently  help.  Impetuous  decisions  are 
is  necessarily  the  end  of  all  good  "°t  nea%  ^^  I'^^^y  ^he"  a  youth 
T  .                -^                              ^  has  easy  access  to  sensible  counsel. 
°  *  Ill-considered  marriages  are  often  a 
However  much  we  may  look  with  retreat  from  hostile  parents  who  may 
alarm  upon  the  trends  of  modern  ^ave  meant  well,  but  whose  attitude 
youth,  we  should  not  tell  them  they  prevented  their  children  from  seek- 
are  "going  to  the  dogs."  Rather,  i^g  their  counsel.  Certainly  deci- 
we  should  express  confidence  in  their  sjons  such  as  when  a  youth  should 
ability  to  fight  their  problems  marry  cannot  be  made  by  a  universal 
through.  We  should  sincerely  ex-  and  arbitrary  dictum.  These  deci- 
press  our  hope  in  their  ability  to  con-  sions  are  life  adjustments  that  must 
tribute  greatly  to  the  winning  of  the  be  made  in  the  light  of  many  com- 
war.  plex  circumstances,  and  they  require 
Sixth,  parents  should  respect  the  time.  Preconceived  decisions  of  par- 
privacy  of  youth.  The  usual  result  ents  on  these  matters  close  the  doors 
of  "prying"  into  their  private  affairs  to  the  youth  when  he  needs  counsel 
is  disaffection  between  parent  and  most.  If  we  are  to  expect  youth  not 
youth.  A  relationship  of  confidence  to  fail  the  cause  of  righteousness  in 
v^ll  permit  the  youth  to  air  his  this  darkest  hour,  we  must  not  fail 
troubles.  His  need  for  an  audience  youth  as  parents  in  this  their  greatest 
for  his  problems  is  pronounced  at  a  hour  of  need. 
  ^