[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420. SPECIAL ACTIVITIES Nebo Stake (Payson, Utah) ~ VERA W. CLOWARD, president of Nebo Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying photograph and newspaper clipping from the Payson Chronicle containing the following write-up relating to the Relief Society flower show held September 21, 1941: "Culminating a __ beautification _ program conducted by the Nebo Stake Relief Society during the past summer, a flower show was held Sunday afternoon in the stake tabernacle in connection with their monthly union meeting.
Also displayed were 160 articles of wearing apparel which represented three special sewing days by the six wards of the stake.
Articles will go to the Church welfare storehouse. "The flower display was magnifcent and the group of judges from Provo highly commended the wards for the splendid effort and results.
Centering the display from each ward was: the flower specially assigned to that particular ward by the stake board committee. "As a result of the judging, the first award went to Payson Second Ward for variety and artisic arrangeNEBO STAKE FLOWER SHOW AND SEWING EXHIBIT, SEPTEMBER 21, 1941
Page 651 

 ?SEPTEMBER 1942 GUNNISON STAKE FLOWER SHOW, AUGUST 29, 1941 ment.
More than 50 varieties were shown in their display. "Second award went to Payson Third Ward for participation of assigned flower. 'Third award was made for quality of assigned flower to Benjamin Ward." Gunnison Stake (Gunnison, Utah) "THE following report was submitted by Orlene L. Henrie, president of the Gunnison Stake Relief Society: "On Friday evening, August 29, 1941, the Gunnison Stake Relief Society board entertained in honor of all Relief Society members in the stake, The visiting teachers were special guests, and each member was also asked to bring her husband as a special guest, which added a great deal of interest to the party. "As a special feature of the occasion a flower show was held which spoke for itself in more eloquent language than our weak words. To attempt to describe the beautiful array of flowers of every hue and kind would be useless..
Practically every woman in the stake contributed her bouquet, and no estimate can be made of the good that will result from this project. Last February each ward selected a 'ward flower' which each member planted along with her row of Relief Society vegetables. The vegetables were to fill the Church welfare canning quota for the stake. "This entertainment was held the evening before our quarterly stake conference, and the flower display was left to be enjoyed by all who attended conference, paying silent tribute in their beauty to what Relief Society women can accomplish when they work together." Deseret Stake (Delta, Utah) EGINNING in September 1941, the Deseret Stake Relief Society began the issuance of its periodic bulletin entitled "The Beacon."
This bulletin is mimeographed and is neatly and attractively arranged, NOTES FROM THE FIELD with the title, month, year, and page appearing at the top of each sheet, and with the contents presented in two columns on each page for ease in reading and for convenience of arrangement. The bulletin contains messages, announcements, and regulations issued by the stake to the wards, a section devoted to each of the regular lesson departments, and reports of activities of the various ward Relief Societies of the stake.
Also included is a comparison, in simple chart form, showing the ratings of the various wards of the stake with respect to attendance at ward Relief Society meetings, average charity donations per member, and other items indicative of the status of Relief Society work. The Deseret Stake Relief Society is commended for this venture which should prove helpful in maintaining the high standard of Relief Society work which has been established in Deseret Stake, particularly during the period while union meetings and visits to the wards are limited. Vera S.
Hilton is president of Relief Society in this enterprising stake. Rexburg Stake (Rexburg, Idaho) PRINTED herewith is the outline for the 1941-42 work meetings submitted at the beginning of the season by Mrs. Elizabeth Stowell, stake Relief Society president.
This outline may be very helpful to other stakes and wards planning to do remodeling and sewing in the monthly work meeting of Relief Society. October?Preparing material for made-over coat Cleaning and renovating wool materials Ripping or taking apart Examination for worn or damaged parts 653 If faded, can material be turned Demonstration?How to use patterns Kinds of standard patterns Knowledge of instructions of various kinds of commercial patterns November?Points in construction of a coat or jacket Placement of pattern on old material Avoid worn places Place entire pattern before cutting Inconspicuous piecings Trimming or combining with other materials Methods of cutting; seam allowance according to kind of material used; seam finishes Pinning or basting parts together; fitting Explanation of making collar, facing, sleeve finishes, buttonholes, or other fastenings Tailor stitching; pressing Suggestions?smaller coats from larger ones; remodeled coats for adults; ladies' suits from men's suits December?The made-over dress Discussion of materials and how to handle each kind Cotton, wool, silk, rayon, etc.
Methods of cleaning, dyeing, pressing Combination with other materials ~ Construction?placement of pattern, cutting, seam finishes Pinning or basting parts together; fitting Method of stitching?for durability, for trimming Hang of skirt and finish of bottom of garment Collar, cuffs, facing, or other finishes or trimmings January?Making boys' and men's shirts February?Little boys' suits; play suits for boys and girls; pictures and demonstrations March?Washing, dyeing, cleaning, and remodeling household articles Curtains, drapes, bedspreads, carpets, and rugs
