[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  Jtgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  September  1901 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
FROM  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS:  There  is  a  grandeur  in  the  sound  of  the  sea 
which  seems  to  soothe  the  soul  when  some  one  would  intrude.  It  bears  witness  of 
the  Creator's  works.  .  .  .  This  morning  I  rose  before  the  day  dawned  and  went  to  walk 
upon  the  beach.  The  moon  was  shining  with  the  most  resplendent  brightness.  There 
was  the  very  stillness  of  death  around  me.  All  the  dwellings  were  fast  locked  in  slum- 
ber, the  tide  had  just  receded  far  on  the  reef,  scarcely  a  breeze  to  be  felt.  The  atmos- 
phere was  calm  as  the  sweet  breath  of  autumn,  but,  oh,  so  solemn!  I  gazed  over  the 
mighty  ocean  towards  that  land  so  far  away.  ...  I  felt  that  secret  prayer  was  .  .  . 
congenial  to  .  .  .  that  little  world  in  the  midst  of  the  mighty  ocean.  I  revolved  in  my 
mind  the  self-denial  of  my  whole  life,  and  said,  "If  my  Heavenly  Father  is  pleased  with 
the  little  good  I  have  done,  all  my  sorrows  will  be  forgotten." 
— Mrs.  Addison  Pratt 
DAYS  AND  DEEDS  THAT  LIVE 
We  might  make  others  free 
Of  grief,  if  we  would  speak. 
And  whisper  something  joyous 
Unto  the  sad,  the  weak; 
The  heart  oft  grows  aweary, 
Is  ready  nigh  to  break. 
Yet  we  withhold  a  blessing. 
Some  soul  would  gladly  take.  .  .  . 
■ — Zina  Elizabeth  Walker 
WOMAN  POSTMASTER:  Senorita  Ysabel  Maria  De  Los  Rica  is  the  first 
woman  postmaster  in  Cuba.    She  now  holds  a  commission  to  handle  the  mail  at  Gibra. 
— Selected 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCES:  President  Jane  S.  Richards,  accompanied 
by  Sister  Emily  S.  Richards,  attended  the  Relief  Society  conference  at  Pleasant  Grove. 
.  .  .  Sisters  Lydia  D.  Alder  and  Harriet  Ann  Badger  went  to  Deseret  to  attend  the 
Relief  Society  conference  of  Millard  Stake.  .  .  .  President  M.  I.  Home  and  Sister 
Elizabeth  J.  Stevenson  attended  the  Bear  Lake  Stake  Relief  Society  conference,  and 
other  meetings  in  that  locality.  .  .  . 
— News  Note 
KENTUCKY  VISITORS  ENTERTAINED:  The  visit  of  Kentucky  editors  with 
their  friends,  including  wives,  sisters,  daughters,  cousins  and  aunts,  was  a  very  pleasant 
affair.  The  genial  and  courteous  Southern  woman  is  always  greatly  appreciated  in  the 
West.  .  .  .  Everything  that  the  Utah  press  could  do  to  add  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
'^thoroughbred"  Kentuckians  was  arranged  for,  a  reception  at  the  Kenyon,  recital  at 
the  Tabernacle,  trip  to  Saltair,  were  among  the  enjoyable  features. 
— News  Note 
Page  586