[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Robinson]
A Golden, Golden Wedding Day Linnie Fisher Robinson wedding was not more beautiful ot lovely than many many others, although it held a day of wonderful surprises and never-to-be-forgotten moments — but these things are expected after fifty years of happily wedded life, and especially so when there are many children and grandchildren. 'Then, of course, there were numerous friends and crowds of relatives — all well-wishers. My parents' home and grounds were full of people who came and went all day and far into the evening. These things are present at most golden weddings, but there was one thing that was probably different, and it is of that I write. Mother had been a Primary teachcr for some forty odd years. She had held other positions in the ward and stake. She had been called with father to do special missionary work in a small neighboring town, but she had never stopped teaching Primary. 'There were boys from Trekker age on up in the ward and surrounding wards who loved mother and whose children loved her because mother dearly loved them. Many honors came to her through this source. As an example, I remember when she was nearing seventy her name was put on the queen contest list by the Aaronic Priesthood for a fund-raising carnival for their ward house. Mother won against a bevy of lovelies, and when we went to see her crowned queen, we couldn't get within a block of the grounds. Her golden wedding day was in hv certain that mother's golden late April, and on that particular da¥ the hills above the town were covered with daffodils. Because they are gold in color, I suppose the children thought they would be appropriate for a golden wedding. Many fine plants and exquisite bouquets had been brought to honor mother and father that day, so much so that all places that could be gracefully used had been used when the daffodils began to arrive. At first we put the bouquets in tall glass tumblers in the large and deep window sills in mother's living room, dining room, and study. When everything was filled we put them in mother's tin milk pans that she had not used for years. We put the bunches together until the pans were filled, and then we put the pans on the front porches until they were filled, and then we began to look for other containers for the back hall. But the gold rubbed off on all of us, and the words of the poet Wordsworth lived for us — "ten thousand. Daffodils... Flash upon the inward eye." The wonder in mother's face at the honor given warmed our hearts and father's, too, and remains ours to keep. April never comes nor goes that it does not bring to me the almost incredible happenings of that day. I recall, too, the children who brought the flowers and the shy pleased pride in their faces as they handed them to us at the door and then insisted on leaving immediately, never dreaming of the magnitude and permanence of the thing they did. Page 603 A Parable for Polly Maude Proctor T is an odd thing about Marge. She says she never, never, gives advice to her daughter or her daughter-in-law, even when they ask for it, on how to rear children. "How in the world do you manage?" I asked her one day as we sat on the back porch shelling peas. "I never can keep my mouth closed, when I should." Marge laughed a little. "J never was known for my restraint!" she protested. We visited and enjoyed the warm summer sunshine for half an hour or so, before Polly came, Marge's son's wife, plodding along the dusty road with a discouraged droop to her shoulders. "Sit down and rest a bit,' Marge told her, "it's going to be a scorcher, isn't it?" "Yes," Polly said, with a sigh, "but the heat wouldn't be so bad, if the children would just behave." "What are the little darlings doing now?" Marge asked, a little too gaily, it seemed to me, "It's Kent. You know how he is always slipping out of doing his chores and talking good-natured Mort into doing them. I've tried everything I can think of to break him of it, and I'm so afraid that if he does not change soon the habit will be the ruination of him and Mort, too." I nodded in agreement, but Marge sat there with a faraway sort of smile on her face and spoke softly as if she had not heard a word. "You remember my sister Lila?" she began. "She was a pretty girl and Page 604 smart in school, too, but she was always putting on airs and showing off in front of the other girls. One day she was on the way home from school with a group of her friends when they passed me and my pals. We had stopped for a game of hopscotch, and it was a perfect opportunity for Sis to show off. "Here, take these home with you," she demanded, dropping her books on the sidewalk. "You are going right home,' I protested, "why can't you take them?" "I'm busy. You take them home," Lila said emphatically. "Oh, all right, but don't leave the books right there in our way." Lila condescended to move the books about a foot so that we could continue our game, and went on with her friends. When I got home my mother asked me what kind of a day I'd had, and I told her, got a hug, and started for the kitchen to get a cookie when I remembered those pesky books. I slammed out the back door and Mother called me back. "Where are you going?" she wanted to know. When I told her, she said, "Leave them there." "But Sis said to bring them," I answered as if her word was law. "Never mind. I'll take care of it," Mother murmured in her sweet, mild way. So I forgot the whole thing. Next morning Sis asked me where her books were. A PARABLE FOR POLLY "Goodness, I don't know!" I said blankly. Mother looked squarely at her. "Where did you leave them, dear?" Sis turned an uncomfortable red and muttered something, intending to retrieve them on the way to school.. You should have seen the sodden, glutinous mess they were. Someone had turned the water down the little irrigation ditch in the early morning hours, and the books had been right in the middle of a shallow furrow. Sis tried to see what she could salvage from the gooey pages and dripped red and blue all over her new dress in a stain that never washed out, and she ran home with tears streaming down her face. Mother comforted her, but never once said, ""That's what you get for imposing on others!"' There was not enough money in our family those days for a second set of books, so the remaining few weeks of school Lila spent studying after classes from the teacher's books or with a friend who would share study time. Her pride suffered. "I just know I won't pass," she would sigh in despair nearly every night as we snuggled down in bed after prayers. Of course, she did pass, but you can bet she never asked me to do any unnecessary waiting on her again. All I had to do was say "Book." Polly, Marge, and I laughed a little and remarked about what a responsible person Lila is now, and what a delightful family she has. Polly and I walked to her gate together when we left and had a nice chat. She was in much better spirits as she waved goodbye, and walked 605 briskly around the lilac bush toward her back door. The next morning Polly's Mort was disconsolately tossing pebbles about, when I went out to see if there was any mail in my box. "What's the matter, Mort, don't you have to watch the water today?" I could see that the small ditch we all use to put water on our lawns and kitchen gardens was full to brimming over. "No, it's Kent's turn, and Mom said I wasn't to touch it." "Well, Kent had better get at it, hadn't he?" I was already turning to a continued story in my favorite magazine as I went back to the walk. Y midafternoon the road was flooded. When that happens in our town and people complain, a fine is automatic, and the family responsible has to clean up any damage to the neighbors' property. The view from my window next morning was one of industry. Polly was setting out little chrysanthemum plants, and there was Kent working like a trooper on the results of yesterday's flood. "Hi, you busy people," I called, and ambled over to pass the time of day. Polly said that Mort had already gone on a hike and that the family was pleased with Kent's new job. "He has a paper route," she said proudly. "Paper boys make quite a bit." I smiled as Kent looked up. "You will be our richest citizen in no time." He kicked at a clod and answered with dejection bending him over like an old man, "Ah, [ll have to pay my debts — that dam water fine — and by that time I'll need a 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 new bike and..." his voice faltered and stopped as he turned to pick up his shovel. I looked a question at Polly, but she paid no attention and started to discuss the party that might. Thus reminded, I hurried home to make the pies I had promised to take. While I was rolling out the pie crust I suddenly saw the whole thing. That Marge! 'Telling stories instead of saying things straight out! The party was a big success, to judge by the crowd, and in one corner Marge sat surrounded by admuring friends, as usual. A knowing look came into my eyes just as Marge turned, and our glances met. She smiled and winked at me, knowing that I had discovered her method of giving advice, but that I would keep her secret safely tucked away in a warm corner of my heart.