[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Martin]
[The Intruders Betty Lou Martin]

"Marj, guess we'll just have to build a new barn. The horses and cows and sheep have to have a place away from the cold before winter sets in. Should we build of cinder brick?" "Pete," Marjorie used the sweetest of smiles. "Pete, what do you think of using the cinder brick to build a house out on the road, and using this big old house for a barn?" "Marj, I'd like nothing better than to build you the dream home you desire out on the road, but this house would never make a barn." Pete sometimes blundered, but he could also speak from the heart more winningly than anyone. He continued, "The horses and cows would go through the floor the first thing. It just isn't barn material, and that's that." And that was that. Marjorie knew Pete was right, much as she hated to admit it. Marjorie thought of the faith she had exercised through the years to no avail. She had made 579 a herculean struggle, and all for naught. She sighed. "I guess I better put on the potatoes for supper." As the years passed, Marjorie learned to tip the scale of value in life, shape her outlook, define her goals. 'There were lots more important things, she realized, as the years went by, than where the house stood. It wasn't the situation of a house that made it a home. It was how the people lived within its walls; the affection they manifested for each other; the manners they developed; the knowledge they acquired to fit them for life; and the love they stored in their hearts. She had a family to rear, and an example to set, and what if the house was back from the road? HEN one day Pete walked through the door. His shoulders were a little higher and a smile wanting to burst through, for everything about him was electric. Marjorie knew he had _ something exciting to tell her, but it wasn't Pete's way to burst forth wih anything in a hurry. Sweat beaded his face, or was it excitement showing through? How long would she have to wait? Marjorie had learned patience through the years. "Marj." Long ago she had stopped objecting to her beautiful name being chopped off short, for the way Pete laid out the four letters was like jewels encased with love. "Marj." He repeated her name reverently, as if he were in church. "ee Peter' "Darndest thing happened today. A fellow came through from the 580 Federal Roads Commission. 'They're going to run a Federal highway through here. They wanted this nick of land where the lane is. 'They offered me a nice price. Fact ls, it wasn't an offer. They take the land, pay for it, and it's a matter of take it or leave it, as far as the money goes. Well, I took it. So. The Federal highway will run right past our house! Work begins immediately." Marjorie's mouth popped open. Perhaps later it would shut, and she would be able to open it again and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-SEPTEMBER 1961 shout with joy. Right now, it just wanted to gape with astonishment. What was Pete saying? "Marj, I figure that we can use the money to remodel the house the way you've always wanted. You haven't had a chance to put that interior decorator taste of yours to work before. Looks as if you can start anytime now." Pete leaned to kiss her. A surge of the old excitement she used to feel at his touch rose in her veins. She couldn't remember of ever being happy in just this way before! Go lden Days Annie Atkin Tanner These are the golden days, With stubble standing in the resting fields, Which earlier were filled with weighted sheaves. It is the time when nature's golden banners Sway gently on the silver aspen trees. These are the golden days, When golden sunsets light the evening sky, And goldenrods push proudly up through minted lane, Where only yesterday wild roses bloomed, And washed pink faces in the May-day rain. These are the mellow days, When sunflowers wave a last farewell To travelers along the homeward highway, And black-eyed Susans lean their pretty heads, On fences old and gray. These are the golden days, When night comes early and the harvest moon Beams down on happy children playing. It is the time when stars along the Milky Way Seem brighter as earth whispers, "These are the golden days." She Key to Compatible Color Schemes Gs Careful Selection Marian Cornwall ICTURE in your mind's eye the atmosphere of these colors — cool, calm, restful grotto blue, emerald green, iceberg blue; warm, vivid, exciting hot pink, firehouse red, wild poppy, "'vistaful" canyon beige, horizon blue, Mediterranean pink, Nile green; fragrant spice brown; regal royal blue, and purple — beautiful colors surrounding us! And today we can capture the delight of color in our homes. Intense true color need not fade. Delicate, fragile tints are scrubbable. Colors that harmonize are readily available because manufacturers coordinate their colors and give us a wide variety of choice. But herein lies the key to the magic ingredient that makes your home individually yours. That key is selection. Many suggestions and ideas, even formulas for color schemes, are evident from time to time, and all have some merit. Often, however, strict adherence to any mechanized scheme or the following too closely of any current trend results in a "packaged" look, lacking in individuality. Currently popular is the trend toward beige carpet, off-white walls, off-white textured draperies, and walnut Scandinavian furniture with bright-colored upholstery. Accessories are often sake cups or colored glass with splashes of abstract art on the walls. This formula is very attractive, but is becoming so common that everyone's decorating scheme looks alike. A few years back the scheme that became common was the Sherwood green wall, the rose-colored sculptured leaf pattern carpet, beautiful printed floral drapery, and the Matelassé covered sofa. Each one of these individual items in the two schemes listed above is good in and of itself and in other combinations than those mentioned above. Certainly, Scandinavian walnut furniture is here to stay and has a place in a variety of modern settings. There was surely nothing wrong with the pale yellow nylon Matelassé that I saw the other day, although it was not accompanied by the usual leaf pattern carpet and floral drapery. Most of the furnishings available on the market today can be and are used — but must be used with discretion and imagination. O not abandon the old, simply because the new is different. Remember that today's designers are trying to contribute ideas to solve basic functions, and the resulting design may be appropriate to your taste, but again it may not. Have you, for instance, in the last few years, looked for a lamp table? Most of the contemporary tables you will see will be very low because the arms of most modern chairs are Miss Cornwall planned the decorating of the Relief Society Building and selected the furnishings and appointments. Page 581 582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 low, and the lamps used today are very tall. Therefore, the function of reading by good light is accomplished in a pleasing way, but remember, it is only one way. It is still very correct to have higher tables and not-so-tall lamps.