[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages — "Remember in All Things the Poor and Needy" Christine H. Robinson]
The  lessons  on  theology,  visiting  teaching, 
home  nursing,  literature,  are  all  educa- 
tional. We  look  forward  to  trying  the 
cooking  recipes. 
— Helen  M.  Parker 
728  Seward  Avenue 
East  Liverpool,  Ohio 
I  would  like  to  say  how  very  much  I 
enjoy  The  Reliei  Society  Magazine.  It  is 
my  favorite  Magazine  and  very  helpful 
and  inspirational.  I  especially  enjoyed  the 
poems  and  the  story  from  the  contest  in 
the  January  issue. 
— Mrs.  Gwendolyn  Jacobson 
Elsinore,  Utah 
The  July  issue  of  the  Magazine  is  a 
splendid  one.  The  stories  and  poems  are 
fine,  and  the  article  ''Reminiscing"  by 
Camilla  Eyring  Kimball  was  read  with  en- 
joyment. The  editorial  "The  Ripening 
of  the  Wheat"  [Vesta  P.  Crawford]  held 
a  special  interest  for  me,  as  the  early  years 
of  my  married  life  were  spent  on  a  dry 
farm,  where  wheat  was  all  important.  We 
knew  the  anxiety  of  watching,  hoping, 
praying  for  a  crop.  We  have  thrilled  with 
joy  as  the  tiny  green  blades  first  appeared. 
We  know  the  gratitude  felt  as  the  grain 
developed  and  the  heads  bowed  with  their 
precious  weight.  We,  too,  have  known 
pride  and  gratitude  that  the  wheat  made 
possible  college  degrees  for  our  children. 
— Maude  O.  Cook 
Tremonton,  Utah 
Today  I  recei\  ed  the  Magazine  for  July, 
and  I  was  delighted  with  it.  I  found  time 
to  view  all  of  the  illustrations  and  to  read 
the  descriptive  matter  of  each.  I  consider 
it  a  privilege  and  an  honor,  and  I  do 
appreciate  recei\ing  such  a  lovely  Maga- 
zine, with  an  outstanding  cover,  short 
stories,  lessons,  recipes,  and  poetry.  They 
are  all  such  a  help  to  me,  and  I  do  enjoy 
them  all. 
— Amy  B.  DeLoney 
Manteca,  California 
Just  a  note  from  a  man  for  a  change. 
Recently  I  spent  a  happy  afternoon  read- 
ing the  July  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  from  cover  to  cover.  As  a  hus- 
band and  father,  I  am  grateful  for  the 
ideals  taught  the  women  and  girls  in  the 
Church  through  this  Magazine.  The  stor-