[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 42 | Category: Fiction | Title: Living Off the Road | Author: Frances C. Yost]
Living Off the Road
Frances C. Yost

Marjorie looked over at the Dayton house and made a mental comparison. The Dayton yard wasn't neatly as well-kept. Pete, she had to admit, was good about mowing the lawn every five days. And, with modesty she admitted, too, that her flowerbed arrangements were prettier than those of the Daytons. Both houses could stand a new coat of paint, that was for sure. The Dayton house wasn't nearly as roomy, nor did it have the possibilities of remodeling that hers and Pete's house had. But even so she would trade houses square across any day of the year. For only one reason — the Dayton house was on the road, where a house belonged.

Marjorie shut her eyelids tightly to block out the picture of that little lane she hated. Memory swept over Marjorie and carried her to the very day Pete had brought her here as a bride. They had come in on the train early in the morning. Pete had gone East to get her after her year of teaching school was completed. Pete had written and told her a lot about the house they would share. It was big and roomy, he said. He told how the cottonwoods reared themselves in gnarled splendor, and the breeze spoke sibilantly in their shimmering leaves. He had told her how the upstairs hall was dim and shadowy and sort of musty with unuse. Yes, Pete had been honest about the house. But Marjorie, listening, had painted her own picture from his words, and the picture was more beautiful than the actual home. As she listened to him, she had thought how beautiful and full of trembling promise her life would be. But, even so, she could overlook all disappointment about the farm home, if Pete had prepared her for the worst — living off the road. He had failed to mention the little old lane that led up to the house.

That first day Pete took Marjorie through the entire house, upstairs to all the empty bedrooms waiting to be filled with a growing family, and down to the basement waiting for jars of fruits, vegetables, and pickles. She could remember his very words: "It's not a palace with alabaster halls and velvet tapestry, but with you here, it will be home, and very, very beautiful."

Beautiful, was just what Marjorie intended to make it, a home they would cherish. The first thing that had to be done was to get the house moved out to the road. It would be like moving a mountain, and she would have to have the faith the size of a mustard seed, but it could be done if she could only move Pete to move the house.

She had decided she might as well bring it up that very morning at the breakfast table.

"Pete..." Marjorie had smiled a conniving smile, one that should melt even the hardest man. "Pete, if you had a couple of neighbors bring their tractors, and if you acquired some big poles from the telephone company or someplace, and if you hoisted the house on rollers, why it just wouldn't be any trick at all to haul the house out to the road." Marjorie smiled again, the kind of smile that should nudge his heart.

Pete looked up from his scrambled eggs and sausage. Even when he was sitting, Pete was tall and bony. His eyes were warm, though, and kind. His eyes were warm when he answered her, but his mouth had a straight-lipped appearance. She hadn't realized it before, but now she knew Pete was a slow, stubborn man. It might even take faith the size of three mustard seeds to move Pete to move the house.

What was he saying?

"Marjorie, this house would fall to pieces if we tried to move it. If it stays where it was built on this fine foundation, it will be here to welcome our great-grandchildren. Does it bother you so much, living off the road?"

"Yes, it does bother me, Pete. It is not only an inconvenience, but it is downright embarrassing."

"Perhaps you get embarrassed about the wrong things." Pete finished his breakfast and put on his hat to leave for the fields. As he closed the door quietly he said: "So long, Marj."

Marjorie rushed to the door, opened it briskly and shouted: "And don't call me Marj!"

"Okeh, Marj." Pete started whistling.

Marjorie shut the door, this time less briskly. She dropped into a chair and sighed. It was as if the bleakness of November had crowded summer right out of the room.

Marjorie and Pete didn't mention the fact that she hated living off the road after that, but it was warp and woof of their days. Sometimes it seemed that the very location of the house made them sit opposite each other as stones.

Time passed, and with the family coming along, the rooms, one by one, were used, even before Marjorie was able to redecorate them. Yes, the house was roomy, and it was well built and warm, and they were comfortable. Marjorie admitted she was thankful and contented, but she wasn't satisfied, and never would be as long as she lived off the road.

Then one day, like a bolt of lightning, a bolt of lightning hit the big red barn. Before anything could be done about putting the fire out, the barn was nothing but a black mass of ashes. People came from far and wide to see the damage and express their regrets. Marjorie thanked them for their interest, but deep in her heart she was glad. Surely this losing the barn was a blessing in disguise. This was the chance she had waited for.

What was Pete saying?