[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Margaret | Author: Rugs]
[Margaret Ann Meng Makes Unique Hexagonal Rugs]
as  Margaret  Widdemer  and  Jean 
Starr  Untermever. 
T)  UTH  ST.  DENIS,  known  as 
"the  First  Lady  of  the  Ameri- 
can Dance,"  is  still  interested  and 
acti\e  in  her  profession  at  the  age 
of  eighty-four.  She  still  composes 
dance  routines,  teaches,  lectures,  and 
in  July  1961,  performed  at  the 
Jacob's  Pillar  Dance  Festival,  which 
was  founded  by  her  husband  Ted 
Shawn. 
Page  587

EDITORIAL 
VOL  48 
SEPTEMBER    1961 
NO.  9 
[Prudent  JLiving 
"The  prudent  man  looketh  well  to  his  going"  (Proverbs  14:15) 
A  wise  mother  trains  her  children 
not  only  in  household  arts  and 
how  to  work,  but  she  also  teaches 
them  to  be  prudent  in  the  value  of 
money  and  how  to  husband  avail- 
able resources. 
An  example  is  recalled  of  a  family 
who  were  traveling  across  the  Ameri- 
can Continent  on  a  vacation.  Both 
parents  belonged  to  families  having 
wealth  for  some  generations,  and 
they  had  been  taught  to  be  prudent. 
One  was  impressed  by  the  adult  be- 
havior of  the  children  —  four  boys 
and  a  girl.  As  one  visited  with 
them  one  found  that  the  trip  was 
not  only  for  pleasure  but  also  for 
training  the  children.  Each  child 
had  his  particular  assignment.  The 
oldest  boy  saw  that  the  car  was 
serviced  and  kept  track  of  the  ex- 
pense. The  second  boy  dusted  the 
outside  of  the  car  each  night;  the 
third  cleaned  the  inside  of  the  car; 
the  fourth,  saw  that  the  bags  were 
carried  in  the  motels  and  packed 
back  in  the  car  each  day;  the 
daughter  was  responsible  for  see- 
ing that  nothing  was  left  behind 
anywhere.  They  made  up  a  happy 
family,  learning  to  evaluate  the  work 
they  were  doing  and  growing  closer 
as  they  served  each  other. 
The  attitude  and  actions  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint  mother  are  prime 
influences  in  the  lives  of  her  chil- 
dren. If  a  mother  strives  for  the 
newest  car,  the  newest  appliances, 
Poge  588 
and  a  house  in  a  new  neighborhood, 
she  is  placing  her  values  on  the 
newest  and  latest.  It  tends  to  make 
children  expect  the  newest  in  their 
world  and  may  create  a  dissatisfied 
child  rather  than  one  who  is  taught 
prudence  and  real  values. 
Recently,  in  speaking  of  a  luxuri- 
ous item  of  clothing,  one  woman 
pointed  to  another  and  said:  "She 
has  plenty  of  money  to  bu\  a  beau- 
tiful one,  but  she  says  she  doesn't 
want  to  wear  what  her  sisters  can't 
afford." 
This  may  seem  to  manv  an  ex- 
treme attitude,  but  how  many  heart- 
aches and  how  much  embarrassment 
would  be  spared  the  less  affluent 
if  more  prudence  were  exercised. 
Quite  early  in  Nephite  history, 
Benjamin  warned  the  Nephites  of 
their  sin  of  pride: 
And  the  hand  of  providence  hath  smiled 
upon  you  most  pleasingly,  that  you  have 
obtained  many  riches;  and  because  some 
of  you  have  obtained  more  abundantly 
than  that  of  your  brethren  ye  are  lifted 
up  in  the  pride  of  your  hearts,  and  wear 
stiff  necks  and  high  heads  because  of  the 
costliness  of  your  apparel  .  .  .  (Jacob 
2:13). 
If  one  would  set  an  example  of 
prudent  living,  one  must  recognize 
values.  The  Lord  requires  a  humble 
heart  and  a  contrite  spirit.  Prudence 
is  an  attribute  which  pertains  to 
these. 
With  the  great  missionary  pro- 
gram spreading  over  the  earth,  with

EDITORIAL  589 
chapels  to  be  built,  temples  to  be  sires  and  purchase  prudently  to  per- 
erected,  the  poor  to  be  cared  for,  mit  also  the  purchase  of  things  of 
now  is  the  time  to  heed  the  proverb  eternal    worth,    both    tangible    and 
''A  prudent  man  looketh  well  to  his  intangible, 
going,"  to  the  end  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saint  mother  will  weigh  her  de-  — M.  C.  S. 
o/  uieatd  a    1 1  iotner  Singing 
Ilh  Mae  Richardson 
I  heard  a  mother  singing, 
And  the  sound  of  her  voice  dried  the  tears  of  a  child. 
I  heard  a  mother  singing. 
And  her  song  brought  new  hght  wherever  she  smiled. 
Hymns  of  praise  to  her  Maker,  words  of  faith  to  her  God; 
Thanks  for  hfe  with  its  beauties,  for  paths  she  has  trod. 
Songs  of  love  for  her  homeland,  hope  of  peace  for  the  nations; 
Dreams  of  life  everlasting  for  all  God's  creations. 
Oh,  that  all  might  be  singers 
Our  hearts  to  take  wing! 
Only  blessings  would  follow  if  life  were  to  sing! 
Yes,  I  heard  a  mother  singing 
Singing  songs  from  her  heart,  and  I  knew 
As  long  as  we  have  Singing  Mothers 
Our  lives  will  be  beautiful,  too. 
(gracious  KyCcceptance 
Nancy  M.  Armstiong 
\  LTHOUGH  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive,"  blessed  also  is  the  receiver 
-^*-    who  accepts  generously  the  offering  of  another's  overflowing  heart. 
Giving,  whether  of  gifts  or  of  oneself,  is  its  own  reward.  But  the  receiver  can 
enhance  the  giver's  joy  by  accepting  graciously. 
Have  you  ever  burst  someone's  bubble  of  happiness  by  saying,  "Oh,  you  shouldn't 
have  gone  to  all  that  trouble,"  or  "How  will  I  ever  repay  you?" 
True,  an  opportunity  to  return  that  particular  individual's  munificence  may  ne\er 
come,  but  many  opportunities  will  come  to  do  a  thoughtful  deed  or  say  an  encouraging 
word  to  someone  else.  A  lovely  chain  of  kindliness  can  thus  be  formed.  And  it's  all 
in  the  family,  for  are  we  not  all  children  of  the  same  Father? 
With  practice,  the  art  of  gracious  acceptance  can  be  acquired,  and  grateful  recogni- 
tion of  another's  liberality  is  ample  recompense.