[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Because | Author: Thomson]
Because of the Word CHAPTER 2 Hazel M. Thomson Synopsis: Ruth Ann Barker, who lives, in the early 1830's, with her widowed father, a farmer in the Naumkeg Valley of New England, dislikes farm life and cannot decide to marry Victor Hall, a neighboring farmer. Ruth Ann goes to Boston to visit her cousin Claire Mayhew, and meets Quinton Palmer, a suitor of Claire's, who declares that he has fallen in love with Ruth at their first meeting. HE air was strained between T the two girls as Ruth Ann prepared to leave the next morning. On the long ride home in the coach, she had time to think of many things she could have done. She could have refused to dance all those dances, but he was such a wonderful dancer. She realized she could hardly have protested enough to have him pay any attention to it. His way of presuming to get what he desired was a little disquieting. She could have insisted on staying near Claire, or perhaps she could and should have stayed at home in the first place. She arrived home late in the afternoon, to find the work both inside and out had piled up during her absence. Coming up the walk, She noticed the gardens, both flowers and vegetables, were already touched by frost. Inside, her father had done little, except make his bed and keep the dishes washed up. Ruth worked quickly and straightened and scrubbed. It was growing dark and her father still hadn't appeared. He often worked late if he thought he could finish a job that night. She still wasn't too concerned when she heard a step on the porch. She opened the door hurriedly to find, not her father, but Vic standing there. Instinctively, she put a hand to her hair, knowing it was disarranged, but the look on his face made her forget her own appearance. "Ruth Ann! I didn't know you were back until I saw the lamp was lighted. May I come in?" "Yes, of course," said Ruth Ann. "Vic, something's wrong. What is it?" "It's your father, Ruth," said Vic gently. "The colt threw him and his head struck a stone. I found him and carried him into my cabin. He's dead, Ruth Ann." The room reeled before her eyes, and Vic caught her arm and led her to a chair. Her father, dead! It was impossible, yet Vic said so, Vic who would never tell an untruth. Vic said her father wasn't coming home. She stared woodenly at him. "Ruth Ann! Do you know what I said? Did you hear me?" Vic took her by the shoulders, shaking her lightly. All her pent-up distaste for farm life surged over her. What had it ever been except hard and disagreeable, and now it had taken not only one but both her parents. 'Then the tears came and she sobbed out her heartbreak in Vic's arms. Page 61} 612 — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 LAIRE came for the funeral, but nothing was said about Quinton. Ruth refused Claire's invitation to return to Boston with her, feeling it best that she get used to being alone in familiar surroundings. Vic got Mrs. Walker, a widow from the village, who went from place to place where her services were needed, to come and stay with Ruth. It proved to be a good arrangement. Mrs. Walker was cheerful and trefused to let Ruth brood over her sadness. Vic came almost every night to cut wood for her fires, do other chores, talk, if Ruth felt like it, or just sit with her before the fireplace. His looks and actions told her that he had not forgotten his proposal, but she was grateful that for the time being he did not refer to it. His only concern now was for her, and she had never known a person so thoughtful of another. He seemed to sense her mood almost before she realized it herself. A heavy snowstorm came just a few days before Christmas, and Ruth Ann was surprised to have a morning visitor from Boston. It was Quinton, arriving by sleigh, and looking more handsome than she remembered. "Ruth Ann! It took longer than I had planned, but I warned you I would come." "What a nice surprise!" said Ruth, "but how did you get here this time of day? You must have been driving most of the night." Quinton laughed. "No, not really. I had work to do nearby and arrived in the village too late to find you last evening. How are you, Ruth? Claire told me about your father. I had planned to come earlier, but thought perhaps I had better wait for awhile after your trouble." Ruth Ann mentally compared his words with Vic's attitude. Vic simply assumed there were things that needed doing and did them. "Oh, I'm sorry," apologized Ruth. "Come in by the fire. You must be cold after your drive." "Not at all. It's a delightful day for driving. 'That's one reason I dare ask you this. Come back to Boston with me for the holidays, will you, Ruth? I told Claire I was going to ask you. I've told her lots of things since the night I met you. She understands and asked me to bring you." To Ruth Ann, Christmas was a time to be dreaded this year, a thing that must be endured somehow. Parties and dancing still seemed out of keeping with her feelings about her father. "Not now, Quinton. Perhaps later I will come." "Ruth," he pleaded earnestly, "you've been stuck out here so long alone the city would be good for you. "Tm not alone," she answered. "There are many friends who have been very kind." UTH felt again a compelling force about this man and was glad when Mrs. Walker insisted on bringing in a lunch and serving them before the fire. Ruth enjoyed his conversation and found herself laughing for the first time in many days. "There. You see. I am good for you. I think that is the first you've laughed in weeks. Will you come with me, Ruth Ann?" He put his BECAUSE OF THE WORD hand over hers on the table and held it tight. "Please, Ruth. I am not in the habit of begging, but I can't get you out of my mind. Even in court you crowd my thoughts and mix up my arguments. Ruth." He stopped as he followed her startled eves to the doorway. Mrs. Walker had brought Vic into the room. Ruth, seeing him, pulled her hand away quickly. "Tm sorry," said Vic. "Mrs. Walker, you didn't tell me Ruth had a caller." "You didn't ask. You said, 'Is she home?' and I said 'Yes,' and here she is," answered Mrs. Walker, returning to the kitchen. Ruth felt at a disadvantage in front of Vic and felt angered at him as the cause of it, but her voice was steady. "Mr. Palmer, Mr. Hall." She refused to meet Vic's eyes, knowing he was truly apologetic for placing her in this position of embarrassment. 'The two men nodded, their eyes intent on each other for a long moment, as though taking the others measure and intentions in one searching glance. "IT met Mr. Palmer at Claire's last fall," explained Ruth, wondering at herself for thinking it necessary that she explain to Vic, her anger seething within her. "He has come to take me to Boston for the holidays. I'm not certain just when I will be back. Help Mrs. Walker look after the place while 'm away, will you Vic?" Her own words puzzled Ruth Ann. Why was she treating Vic in this manner? As for looking after things, hadn't Vic been doing just 613 that ever since the day of the funeral? Ruth caught a glimpse of the hurt in Vic's eyes as he answered evenly, "Of course. Have a good holiday, Ruth. I brought your Christmas gift." He placed a small package in her hand. "Good-bye." He nodded to Quinton and was gone. Suddenly the room seemed bare and chilly. Ruth stared after him. Quinton's words aroused her. "I will not try to figure out why you changed your mind, Ruth Ann. That you did is plenty good enough for me. Get packed and let's be on our way before you change it again." The trip to Boston by sleigh was enjoyable for Ruth. Behind Quinton's fast, high-stepping pair of grays, with bells jingling merrily, the miles fell away. They had almost reached the citv before Ruth remembered the present she had for Vic, still in her bureau drawer. HE present was a new book that had been passed among several families in the village. Mrs. Walker, knowing Vic's love for reading, had brought it to the house, and Ruth had persuaded her to wait until Christmas before giving it to him. "Tm not giving it to Vic,' Mrs. Walker had said. "You are." "But it is your book." "He will appreciate it a lot more from you than he will from me. I haven't read it myself, but I've heard a lot of talk about it in different places where I've been working. They do say it is a most interesting story. Something about the Indians. I just figured Vic would like a good Indian story." 614 "Vic would like any good story," Ruth Ann had answered. Funny how little it took to keep Vic happy. No need for gay parties and fancy-dress balls for him. A little lamplight and a good book, that was all that was necessary. Oh, well, thought Ruth Ann, determined to put Vic out of her mind, she could still give him the book when she returned. The holidays in Boston were a continual round of parties and dances, sweet music, and_ pretty clothes. Quinton was in constant attendance. Claire seemed not to mind. She never lacked for partners and was her usual gay self. Ruth Ann decided that if Claire were suffering any pangs about Quinton, she was keeping them extremely well covered. Ruth saved the blue dress for Christmas Eve, just as she did the opening of Vic's present. Alone in her bedroom, she opened the tiny package, to find a single blue stone hanging from a tiny gold chain. It finished the dress perfectly, and seemed to give her a feeling of security and comfort, such as she found only in Vic's presence. In some strange, unexplainable way she seemed to feel a lessening of the loneliness she felt this season in the absence of her father. She went downstairs and met Quinton in the great library of Claire's spacious home to await the dancing that was to begin in the ballroom. "How beautiful you are tonight," he said, leading her to the divan before the blazing fire. "I have something for you, Ruth Ann. I want you to wear it to the dance tonight." "You shouldn't have bothered, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 >? Quinton. I have nothing to. "You have nothing to give me? Is that what you were going to say? You have yourself. Ruth, I do want you to marry me. I think you have known it since the first moment we met." He opened the box he took from his pocket and held it toward her. Inside Ruth saw the most beautiful string of pearls she had ever seen. "Quinton! They are priceless!" "So are you, my dear," he said, taking them from the box and fastening them around her neck. He took her in his arms and kissed her once. She drew back, shaken at his touch. "Here," he said, removing the little chain and handing the blue pendant to her. "You won't need this little bauble tonight. You'll be wearing something worthy of your beauty." In the mirror Ruth looked at the pearls, emblematic of all that Ouim ton offered her. Then her eyes fell to the small pendant in her hand. Vic's face rose before her as she had last seen it, hurt, yet kind in his own disappointment. For the first time in her life she felt a longing for the farm. Slowly she unclasped the pearls and handed them back to Quinton, feeling their beauty and richness as she did so. He pleaded, thinking it might help to give him some hold on her, the beginning of a promise, but Ruth Ann was firm in her refusal as she refastened the golden chain about her throat. "Keep them, Quinton, until I have time to think, a month, two months, awav from you. When I have decided, only then would it be right for me to wear the pearls." (To be continued) \\_ FROM _THE FIELD _[~ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY FAIR April 28, 1961 Seated at the table, left to right, Work Director Counselors and their wards: Alice Briggs, Fourth Ward; Vera Rosencrantz, Castleford Ward; Della Ghan, Eighth Ward. Standing, left to right: Marie Hess, Filer Ward; Nelda Tadlock, Sixth Ward; Deone Roberts, Second Ward; Fern Rose, Murtaugh Ward; Ludema Davis, First Ward; Donna Christensen, Fifth Ward; Mary Cheney, stake work meeting leader; Marvel Craner, Buhl Second Ward; Lillian Henstock, Hollister; Sara Meyer, Buhl First Ward; Betty Ostler, Twin Falls Third Ward. Sister Brown reports: "A Relief Society Fair was held following our leadership meeting on April 28, 1961. Each ward exhibited articles made by its members and gave away recipes and samples of food. Hundreds of beautiful articles were on display, which was open to the public. The stake board served refreshments from a table which carried out the Hawaiian theme, with flowers flown from Hawaii for the occasion. Each board member wore a muu muu and a lei to add to the effect. It was an enjoyable occasion, with more than 500 women attending." Page 615 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 196] Photograph submitted by Edna A. Beal GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 19, 1961 Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, stands sixth from the right in the front row; Corinne McGuire, the chorister, stands seventh; Jo Ann Udall, accompanist, is seated left at the piano. Sister Beal reports: "This group was honored by being invited to sing at our stake quarterly conference, March 19, 1961. 'This conference imaugurated the use of our new Glendale Stake Center. 'These sisters performed before 1800 people, the largest attendance in the history of our stake. We are very proud of these faithful women who give their time so generously, meeting once a week for practice. They are now rehearsing for a musical to be given for the benefit of our new stake center. Sister Jo Ann Udall appears in the picture as accompanist. We are particularly proud of this sister, as she stepped in when sickness prevented our regular accompanist Pearline Goddard from continuing." SOS ee Photograph submitted by Evelyn N. Binns RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1961 Seated, in front, at the right, left to right: Jeanette C. Bell, Education Counselor, Evelyn N. Binns, President; Edna H. Reynolds, Work Director Counselor. Standing in front of the microphone: Leona Stinson, chorister; second from Sister Stinson's right: Arlene Beecher, organist. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 Evelyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Richland Stake Singing Mothers have had a very successful year. 'The Singing Mothers have furnished music for leadership meetings, visiting teacher convention, and our Relief Society convention. At May quarterly conference, the stake Singing Mothers, with a membership of seventy-eight voices, sang 'Hold Thou My Hand' and 'O Come, Thou King of Kings.' As a special number, the three Richland wards, under the direction of Margaret Bosch, sang 'O Come, Ye Blessed of My Father.' The organist for the Richland group was Hazel Haynie." Photograph submitted by Myrl S. Stewart RIVERDALE STAKE (UTAH) TWENTY-SECOND WARD COMPLETES TWENTY-FIVE YEARS OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING Front row, seated on the floor, left to right: Ardella Johnson, President; Norrinne Fowers, First Counselor; Thelma Ferguson, Second Counselor; Helen Christiansen, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, seated, left to right: Annie Hayes; Edna Clark; Martha Van Braak; Margaret Reyns; Eva Bateman; Elva Bowman; Lottie Payton; Connie Nielsen; Louisa Ensign; Hester L. Stone. Third row, seated, left to right: Emma Schmidt; Reka Vlannderen; Blanche Martin; Cora Gale; Bernice Brown; Luella Dustin; Emily Wilson; Anna Cole; Esther Mitchell. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive Wilson; Catherine Souter; Ada Nielsen; Elsie Godfrey; Cora Stoddard; Virginia Jensen; Lois Blair; Grace Adderly; Mary Burgess; Madolin Jensen; Thelma Ketcham; Alice Liddell; Lilly J. Cliff; Almeda Montgomery; Zella Jones; Edith Empey. Myrl S. Stewart, President, Riverdale Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Twentysecond ward was organized in 1936. Ever since the ward was organized the sisters have achieved one hundred per cent in visiting teaching. An attractive planter was given to the Twenty-second Ward Relief Society by the stake at the visiting teacher convention to honor these sisters for their one hundred per cent visiting teaching." 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 16, 1961 Neldon Oborn, accompanist on the organ, is seated at the left on the front row; the chorister Cleone Jones is seated at the night on the front row; First Counselor Vera Leyland is seated on her right. Second Counselor Elsabeth Hansen stands third from the left in the back row; organist Sarah Stolworthy who played the piano accompaniment, stands second from the right in the back row; President Margaret Jones stands at the right in the back row.

Photograph submitted by Millicent Winsor PHOENIX NORTH STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 1961 Seated in the front row, left to right: James R. Price, President, Arizona Temple; LaPriel Smith, wife of Stake President Rudgar G. Smith; Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith; President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve; Rudgar G. Smith, President Phoenix North Stake; Don Ostlund, First Counselor; Carl C. Jacobsen, Second Counselor; Paul Lenie, Clerk. Seated in the second row are members of the Phoenix North Stake High Council. Third row, standing at the left (in dark dresses): Veoma Stallings, stake Relief Society organist; Ethelyn Eagar, stake chorister. Millicent Winsor, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society, reports: "At the time this picture was taken, Sister Ida M. Steele, our stake Relief Society President, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 had been released, and the work was being carried on by the two counselors and the board. The work done by our Singing Mothers is most outstanding. They sang at both sessions of stake conference. Sister Jessie Evans Smith was our guest soloist. She sang 'He That Hath Clean Hands' and 'The Temple by the River.' The Singing Mothers sang two special numbers: 'My Redeemer Lives' and 'Our Heritage.' This last song was written by Emella Hall of Snowflake Stake, especially for Relief Society. By special request, the same two songs were sung by the stake Singing Mothers at our April convention." Photograph submitted by Edith E. Baddley BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH) BRIGHAM CITY TENTH WARD CONDUCTS QUILT MAKING CONTEST Team captains, Annie Stoker, left, and Ruth Pierce, right. Edith E. Baddley. President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Bigham City Tenth W ard, Box Elder Stake, 'squared off' recently in an oldfashioned quilt making contest under the direction of Merle Grover, work meeting leader. Sister Grover and the Relief Society presidency, Helen Bunnell, Carol Walker, and Fay Laney, thought up the contest in an effort to renew interest in quilt making among the younger women of the ward. The ward was divided into two camps and the battle was on. Annie Stoker, assisted by Marva Cook and Relda McGregor, asked forty-three women to each make a quilt block. They chose a pinwheel pattern of many colors for their entries. Ruth Pierce, aided by Ann Bennett and Jerry Nelson, picked triangular blocks outlined in black and bordered in pink, for their efforts. 'Phirtysix sisters made blocks for this quilt. Each group had thirty days to complete the work. Stake work meeting leader Yvonne Hansen was named judge. She called the contest a draw. All who took part agreed that the contest was fun, but their work is only half finished, for the quilts must now be quilted. "We feel that the work meetings in our stake are outstanding, and this contest by the Tenth Ward is but representative of the many activities engaged in by our misters." 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 Photograph submitted by Wanda L. Gull SANDY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR SPECIAL MEETING, February 4, 1961 Front row, standing (in dark dresses), left to mght: Wanda L. Gull, President, Sandy Stake Relief Society; Beverly M. Brown, chorister. Second row, standing at the left (in dark dress): Roxie N. Rich, organist. Standing at the left, in the front row, holding violin: Maridon Nielsen. Sister Gull reports: "On February 4, 1961, the Singing Mothers presented three lovely numbers in a special meeting. Approximately one hundred mothers participated, and they expect to participate in the stake conference in June and also for the Relief Society convention in August. We are proud of our Singing Mothers and are inspired at all times by their lovely music." Photograph submitted by Ethel B. Whiting PUGET SOUND STAKE (WASHINGTON) FIRST VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 22, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right, beginning fifth from the left: Helen Hannigan, literature class leader; Lenna Petersen, work meeting leader; Narlynn Dickson, social science class leader; Selena F. Burbidge, Work Director Counselor; Ethel B. Whiting, President; K. Louise Huntamer, Education Counselor; Catherine Masters, theology class leader; Dr. Mary Catherine Baldwin, instructor for the course "Caring for the Sick in the Home"; High Councilman Roy S. McKinnon is seated at the right in the front row. Sister Whiting reports: The first visiting teacher convention of the Puget Sound Stake Relief Society was held May 22, 1961, in the new Puget Sound Stake Center. There are twelve units in this stake at present. A very fine program was presented, consisting of talks, musical numbers, and a special toast to the visiting teachers, after NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 which three skits and a lovely reading on visiting teaching were given — 'Messengers of Love and Service' and "The Improper and Proper Way to Do Visiting Teaching.' "Fine program booklets had been made, which included the special messages for the summer months visiting teaching. Each booklet held a pink carnation for the visiting teacher. Following the program, pictures of the group were taken and refreshments were served. We are certainly enjoying our opportunities in Relief Society and have a growing testimony of Relief Society work." Photograph submitted by Vida E. Manning BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, May 21, 1961 Left to right: Kenna Smith, youngest visiting teacher; Vida E. Manning, President, Bear River Stake Relief Society; Mary Andrus, oldest visiting teacher. Sister Manning reports: "The youngest visiting teacher in the Bear River Stake is Kenna Smith, twenty-three. She is the mother of two small children, and she has been a visiting teacher for one year. The oldest visiting teacher in the stake is Mary Wride Andrus, eighty-five years young. She was born in Provo, Utah, and spent her girlhood there. She is very proud of the fact that she lived as a neighbor to Sister Florence J. Madsen (of the General Board of Relief Society) and her family. She has been a diligent visiting teacher for many years, and sets an excellent example of consistently doing her teaching every month the momjng following the visiting teacher meeting. She has a handicap, but she wears it like a crown. She spreads cheer and inspiration wherever she goes. She has served as a visiting teacher for many years and has held positions in the Church all her life. "The visiting teacher convention was held May 21, 1961. The feature of the day was the three demonstrations of visiting teaching which were given at the Annual General Relief Society Conference in 1960. The demonstrations were presented by East Garland, Fielding, and Belmont Wards. The music was furnished by the Belmont Ward Singing Mothers and a special women's trio. Red roses and small books were presented to the honored visiting teachers and homemade candy was served to all im attendance. For the first six months of this year (1961) the Bear River Stake has achieved a one hundred per cent visiting teaching record." — LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 35 — "Be Not Deceived" Elder Roy W. Doxey. (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 50) For Tuesday, December ~~ >? 1961 Objective: To learn that there are ways to detect false spirit manifestations. HE text for this lesson, Section 50, is one of the many informative and interesting revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants. It ls different from many of the Sections because of the relationship of its various ideas to the central theme— men and women mav know how to detect evil powers. Although this revelation was given because of a condition which arose in some branches of the Church during Joseph Smith's time, it is as applicable today as then. (Read verse one. ) As pointed out by the Lord, the instructions in this rev elation are "words of wisdom." From what source is one to seek the counsel of the Lord? In another revelation, we are instructed to "teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom " (D & C 88:118). These are the books of scripture which contain the truths that guide one to salvation. Is it not the admonition of the Lord that we should live by Page 622 every word that proceedeth forth from his mouth? (Ibid., 84:44). As indicated in verse two of our text, there are "many spirits which are false spirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world." Historical Background What would be the reason for a revelation which, in the introduction, points out that there are many spirits in the world seeking to deceive? The elders of the Church for whom this revelation was given, were also reminded that "... Satan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you." In what way did the Adversary attempt to deceive? The Lord says, "Behold, I, the Lord, have looked upon you, and have seen abominations in_ the church that profess my name" (D & C 50:3-4). Here is what Elder Parley P. Pratt, one of those addressed in this revelation, said concerning this condition in some branches of the Church near Kirtland, Ohio: LESSON DEPARTMENT As I went forth among the different branches, some very strange spiritual operations were manifested, which were disgusting, rather than edifying. Some persons would seem to swoon away, and make unseemly gestures, and be drawn or disfigured in their countenances. Others would fall into ecstacies, and be drawn into contortions, cramp, fits, etc. Others would seem to have visions and revelations, which were not edifying, and which were not congenial to the doctrine and spirit of the gospel. In short, a false and lying spirit seemed to be creeping into the Church. All these things were new and strange to me, and had originated in the Church during our absence, and previous to the arrival of President Joseph Smith from New York (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 61, 1950 edition). Joseph Smith and Revelations With Elder John Murdock and several other elders, Brother Pratt asked the Prophet to inquire of the Lord concerning these manifestations. In relating what happened when this revelation (Section 50) was received by the Prophet, there is available to us an account of the way in which Joseph Smith received some of the revelations in 'The Doctrine and Covenants. Following prayer, the Prophet dictated this revelation in the presence of these elders in this way: (Each sentence was uttered slowly and very distinctly, and with a pause between each, sufficiently long for it to be recorded, by an ordinary writer, in long hand. This was the manner in which all his written revelations were dictated and written. There was never any hesitation, reviewing, or reading back, in order to keep the run of the subject; neither did any of these communications undergo revisions, interlinings, or corrections. As he dictated them so they stood, so far as I have witnessed; and I was present to witness the dictation of several communications of 623 several pages each....) (Ibid., page 62). In commenting upon the above testimony, Elder B. H. Roberts writes as follows:... This statement of Elder Pratt's is true in a general way, and valuable as a description of the manner in which revelations were dictated by the Prophet; and needs modifying only to the extent of saying that some of the early revelations first published in the "Book of Commandments," in 1833, were revised by the Prophet himself in the way of correcting errors made by the scribes and publishers; and some additional clauses were inserted to throw increased light upon the subjects treated in the revelations, and _paragraphs added, to make the principles or instructions apply to officers not in the Church at the time some of the earlier revelations were given... (D. H. C. 1:173, footnote). Satan's Attacks In all dispensations of the gospel, Satan has attempted to thwart the purposes of the Lord for man. He has spread false teachings, overcome many by spurious gifts to stimulate the genuine, and thus has weakened faith in truth and shipwrecked many souls by his deceptions. In the period of the meridian dispensation, Satan's efforts were successful in bringing about a general apostasy of the Church. His efforts to do this in the fulness of times will not succeed according to the word of the Lord (see Daniel 2; D & C 65:2); but there have been and _ there probably will be many who will succumb to his attacks. In order to insure the continuance of the kingdom of God in this last dispensation, the saints have been informed through revelation to the Prophet that there are ways to detect the deceiver. 624 Key Against Deception To the elders addressed in this revelation (Section 50), and for any who are seeking for a_ standard against deception, the Lord made known an important truth: And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day (D & C 50:23-24). To edify means to improve morally and spiritually. Advancement upward is the planned purpose of God for his spirit children. Through the various stages of man's eternal journey, it is the Father's plan to develop his children. In terms of the salvation of his children, the Father's work is to bring about their exaltation. But there is only one way in which this can be accomplished. It is that man will accept Jesus Christ as his Savior. No other way is possible. Therefore, those principles, teachings, and works which do not conform to the Master's gospel will not accomplish the exaltation of man. It is he who endures to the end that will be saved. Nephi understood by revelation that all salvation revolves around the Christ. (See 2 Nephi 31:14, 16, 20, 21.) Having a true understanding of the gospel of Jesus Christ, man knows that the path to exaltation or eternal life is observance of the commandments of God. Whenever the scriptures speak of salvation in the kingdom of God, they emphasize the necessity of following the example of Jesus. If the instructions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 received do not make a person better in terms of his attainment of salvation, then they are not from God. When one understands his own position in the eternal plan of the Father as a child of God, he then is capable of receiving more light and truth through strict obedience to the principles of progression. Again, all ideas, theories, commandments which are not in accordance with the teachings of Christ do not give the edification necessary to achieve the eternal life. Jesus Christ is the light, the truth, which is to be held up before the world. It is his atonement, his works, his example, that will make possible the greatest blessing to man — eternal life. Jesus, as the resurrected Son of God, said to the Nephites: "Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up — that which ye have seen me do. Behold ye see that I have prayed unto the Father, and ye all have witnessed" (3 Nephi 18:24). "... Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you" (Ibid., 18:16). We follow the Savior's example when we live the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is declared to be light. (See D & C 45:28-29; 14:9-10.) Men and women are truly edified when they follow the truth — the gospel of Jesus Christ. The beginning of this progression to the fulness of truth comes with the remission of sins through repentance and the atonement of Jesus. The continued blessings of forgiveness result by keeping the commandments. (See Mosiah 4:26-27.) LESSON DEPARTMENT Blessed Are the Faithful Only to the faithful who endure to the end seeking for perfection will the greatest blessings come. - (See D&C14:7.) "But blessed are they who are faithful and endure, whether in life or in death, for they shall inherit eternal life' (Ibid. 50:5). The fight against the Adversary must continue unabated by striving to overcome all of the barriers to one's salvation. Wo Unto the Deceivers The condition which existed in some branches of the Church around Kirtland resulted, in part, because of the actions of some of the members..