TRUE FRIENDS.

E'en though our barks may drift apart,
All down the stream of time;
The road to you is smooth and sweet,
While pain and trouble mine;

Your smiles are from a glad, light heart,
But I must smile through tears;
While hours to you pass quickly by,
They seem to me as years;

In stately mansions you may dwell,
An humble cot I share;
The sun beams brightly on your path,
But fills mine dark with care;

No matter what our portions be
Until the journey ends,
Whatever comes into our lives,
Let us still be friends!

Edith McClendon.
Mesa, Arizona.

Mother's Valentine.

By Diana Parrish.

The door bell rang violently. Bea, Viola and Mignon all rushed to answer it. Viola got there first and pulled in a pasteboard box more than two feet long.

"American beauties," breathed the girls in a chorus.

"For you, Mignon," squealed Viola. "Marvin must have spent an entire month's salary."

Mignon shrugged her shoulders gracefully. "I should think a girl could have long-stemmed roses, once in a while without  "

The door bell rang again. Mignon jerked it open and stood face to face with a grinning messenger boy with a red nose and a twinkle in his eye.

"Sign, please."

While Mignon signed for the tiny package the others examined the card.

"It's mine," cried Viola. She tore off the wrapping with eager fingers. "Look!" A little gold heart set with pearls rested on a fascinating satin background.

"Lovely." Mignon and Bea gave their sister an ecstatic hug in unison. "Only engaged girls can have jewelry  the rest of us must take 'perishable goods,'" laughed Bea.

Another violent ring. "Never rains but what it pours," sang Viola. She swung open the door.

"I made a mistake and should 'a left this here thing wit' th' other 'un," grinned the same red-nosed messenger, this time with several twinkles in his eye. "Sign here, please."

On the big package Bea caught a glimpse of the bold handwriting which she could have picked out of a thousand.

"For me!" Bea grasped it excitedly and ran to the living room. On the packings of soft tissue emerged a gorgeous scarlet heart tied with fascinating satin ribbon which held a card inscribed "To my Valentine."

"Sweetheart chocolates! Vance knows what the road to your heart is paved with!" She undid the cover.

"Candy is just as nice a gift as flowers," pouted Bea. "Have a chocolate, mother? The square ones are delicious. I think you'll like the round ones, father."

MOTHER'S VALENTINE. 79

Meanwhile the other girls took out their gifts, laughing at Bea's peevishness.

"They are beautiful valentines, girls. It reminds me " Mother did not finish but looked musingly into the fire.

"Very nice indeed," commented father, who glanced at mother and fell to fidgeting his evening paper.

"What do the valentines remind you of, mother? You didn't finish what you were saying," suggested Viola.

Mother smiled sweetly and shot a glance in father's direction. Father appeared to be deeply engrossed in the news.

"I was just thinking of one Valentine night forty years ago," began mother.

"Forty years ago!" exclaimed Bea somewhat horrified. "Mother, surely you're not  "

"Yes, I am, my dear. I'll be fifty-nine next birthday or is it only fifty-eight?"

"Never mind which, mother, go on with the story. What happened?"

"On that fateful day," laughed mother, "I had to decide between your father and  well, I'll just call him Jess for the present."

"Did we know him, mother?" clamored the girls. "Tell us his real name, we want to know who might have been our father."

Mother shook her head. "Only the victors are remembered."

Father's newspaper rattled considerably.

"Please tell his real name," begged Bea.

A mischievous dimple which had almost forgotten to come made its appearance at the corner of mother's mouth. "It would not be fair Anyway, as I was saying, Jess and father had been coming to see me for nearly a year. Before I met father I had 'kept company' that's what we used to call it with Jess. Then father appeared on the scene and engaged all my time that was not promised to Jess. In the winter we went skating on Hot Spring Lake, to dances in the Fourteenth Ward and to the theatre. In the summertime we went to Calder's Park and Chase's Mill. They were way out in the country in those days and looked like wild woods. We used to drive around the old mill with our buggy and then eat our picnic on the long grass under the trees. As I went out with the two boys I could not decide for the life of me which one I liked best was it father, or was it Jess? "

Another agitated rustle of the newspaper.

"Just before Christmas Jess went to St. George and before going asked me to be his wife. I told him I was undecided as to whether I loved him enough to marry him so he said he would


wait for my answer until he came back on Valentine Day. He also made me promise that I would not engage myself to father while he was gone.

"The day after Jess left, father asked me to marry him. I told him the same thing I had told Jess  that I was not sure of how I really felt.

"'I'm sure enough for both of us,' said father, 'and I'll speak to your father right away and we can be married in the spring.'

"I was rather impressed by father's business-like methods, for Jess had seemed quite content to wait for a few months for his answer. But Jess on the other hand was bigger and more handsome than father."

Decided rattling of the newspaper.

"What did father look like, mother," interrupted Mignon. "Doesn't it seem funny to think of father and mother being young like us and making love!"

"Father's hair was coal black, although you'd hardly believe me to look at it now. His skin was white and his cheeks were pink enough to have been a girl's. He was quite a dandy in his dress and had a new cravat every time he came to see me."

The girls looked at father in silence for a few moments, noting the plain grey suit which was anything but "dandified," his small bow tie, his square-toed, old fashioned boots, then his white hair growing dangerously thin near the top, his wrinkled skin and rather pale face.

"And mother were you as  "

Mother caught the embarrassed look in her daughter's eye as Viola glanced at her figure. "My dear, I have been getting fatter every year for thirty years. Then I was as slim as you, and father's arm went quite easily around my waist."

"Go on with the story, mother, please, I can't wait," begged Bea.

"Well, when Jess was out of the way, father gave me no peace. If he left me at midnight, he would send me a note before breakfast, he would perhaps dash down to see me during his lunch hour and come again immediately after supper. But I was still undecided, for Jess was writing me very appealing letters. Father continued to press me for an affirmative answer. He would not consider one in the negative. As Valentine day drew near I told father that Jess was coming back.

"'Marry me now,' begged father, 'and don't keep Jess hanging on any longer.'

"'I've promised to wait until he comes, and besides I am not so sure that he cannot make me entirely happy,' I replied.

"Father smiled jauntily. 'Never mind then; I can wait.' I could not have quenched him if I had poured a bucket of ice water down his back.