GUIDE LESSONS. 119 was nearing fulfilment: the toes of the image were shaping into the ten nations which now occupied Europe. There are three periods of history: ancient, medieval and modern. Ancient history begins with the beginning of life upon the earth and ends with the fall of the Roman empire. Medieval history begins with the introduction of Christianity into Rome and ends with the Reformation. From the close of the period of the Reformation in 1600 we have modern history. The Christian Era. At the time of the Savior all Europe north of the Pyrenees was in the hands of the Celts and the Goths  pagans all. In the year 400 A. D., Europe was divided into the Eastern and Western empires. The Eastern empire extended from the lower Danube to the confines of Persia. The western empire extended from the Caledonian ramparts (Which was the wall builded by the Roman Conqueror Hadrian between Scotland and England), down through what is now Holland, Belgium, France and Italy to the foot of Mt. Atlas. In 496 A. D., Christianity was introduced among the Franks who were a tribe of Goths, and their king Clovis accepted baptism. In 768 A. D., Charlemagne, King of the Franks, invaded Italy and annexed Northern Italy to his empire. He next conquered the Saxons, compelled them to adopt Christianity and made himself master of all Europe north of the Alps. He was recognized by the Pope of Rome and was himself a patron of art, literature, science and was indeed a very great and wise potentate. From that time France began its career as a separate kingdom. Norway enters into the history of nations with Halfdan as king, (800 A. D.). Sweden in 900, and Denmark at about the same period. Iceland was settled in 874 A. D. Germany emerges as a nation with King Louis, 814 A. D.; and France and Germany, after wars and much strife became separate nations, in 887. Russia was sufiiciently united and nationalized in 900 to take her place in the family of nations. By 1000 A. D. Spain was an independent kingdom under Ramira the Second; Norway and Denmark were making and recording history; Germany and France were at occasional wars wtih each other and with.surrounding nations; Russia was ruled by Yarolaflf the Great. In this chapter we haA'e considered briefly the rise and fall of the ancient Japhetic peoples, who have been the forefathers and founders of modern Europe and who were in part the descendants of Japheth through his varied lineage. Mixed with his seed has been the blood of Israel which has also been pointed out in these lessons. The story of Germany, of France, of Scandinavia, and of Great Britain will be briefly referred to in the chapters dedicated to the history of their surname origins, We will now 
 consider the varied branches of the Teutonic race which have invaded, conquered and settled the powerful modern continent of Europe. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in March, products and by-products old dairy. Pure milk and health are closely related. Pure milk, or sanitary milk means milk contain in, the minimum number of bacteria which are injurious to health. Sanitary milk and cream are products which are health-giving and healthful. Many of our Utah housekeepers have applied intelligently the principles of and tables, fruits bacteriology and sanitation meats. They to the the canning have realized the imperative need for clean perfect animals cleanliness. Clean milk under sanitary is produced Unsanitary conditions. only from healthy, milking places should be considered just as much of an eyesore and a menace to health as a disgraceful backyard and an unsanitary kitchen. ]\[ore education and co-operation in the home is required to raise the standard of clean milk production. All members of the family should unite in the effort to provide for pure milk, clean, sunny stalls for milking while sanitary milkers are more necessary to the well-being of the family than is the cement walk to the front door. As milk is the most important food for children, it is imperative that clean milk be produced. As individuals or as a community we have absolutely no right to ignore conditions which cause suffering and death among children. It is safe td say that thousands of children diie annually in the United States from the effects of unclean milk. Sanitary milk means the product of healthy animals caught in clean receptacles, in dustless, odorless stalls, milked by persons with clean hands, and wearing clean clothing. As soon as possible the milk should be strained, thoroughly cooled and kept in a cool, clean place until used. The food value of milk is often underestimated. The importance of milk and its products is exceedingly great and is especially so when we consider the relation of the milk supply to the strength and development of children. This is true because milk contains certain essential compounds, the nature of which is not known, but which are necessary to the growth of young children. The growth compounds are not furnished in such abundance in any form of meat product. Dr. Graham Lusk. after careful research, states that a family of five cannot afford GUIDE LESSONS. 121 to purchase meat until it has bought three quarts of milk per day. If the health of the people is to be maintained, the slogan of a quart of milk a day for every child under eight and at least a pint for every adult should be accepted without question. The more recent nutritional studies show that it is more economical to feed animals for milk than it is for beef, i.e., a larger percentage of nutrients is obtained from the same outlay for food. Dr. Jordan, Director of the New York Experiment Station, says after careful tests it is a very conservative statement to assert that under the very best possible conditions of production of food energy from milk compared with food value of steers and sheep, it has been found to be more than twice as economical to feed for milk rather than beef. Dr. E. V. McCollum of the School of Hygiene and Public Health of John Hopkins University, says the use of milk and green vegetables is imperative not only because they are rich in ash constituents which are necessary for the growth of young children, but also because they are rich in the growth element called vitamines, which means life maintaining, and another element about which even less is known but which is necessary for growth and health. As the price of feeding stuff has increased 100 to 200 per cent, the price of milk has only advanced about 20 per cent. The public accepts an increase in price of other staples with much less concern than that they do in the advance in the price of milk. We grant that milk contains a large percentage of water but it must be remembered that it has a dietary value far greater than can be expressed by the protein and energy content. A liberal amount of milk will help to eliminate doctors' bills, and at almost any price it should be considered a good food purchase. A comparison of milk with other food shows that: 1 pint or lb. of whole milk at 5c a pint gives. . S7 prot. cal. 314 1 lb. of round steak at 24j/2C a lb. gives 376 prot. cal. 709 1 lb. of canned oysters at 35c a lb. gives.,. . . 59.68 prot. cal. 328 1 lb. of eggs (about 9 eggs) gives 240 prot. cal. 672 1 lb. of bread gives 168 prot. cal. 1174 1 lb. of skim milk at 2^c gives 61 prot. cal. 166 1 lb. of cheese at 2 1/2c a lb. gives 520 prot. cal. 1994 1 lb. of cottage cheese gives 362 prot. cal. 498 Many people are unaware of the value of skim milk. The proportion of protein is higher than in whole' milk. In addition to this it contains practically all of the mineral salts and sugar. In the home manufacture of cottage or cream cheese the whey, 
 which is also very valuable. is discarded. When milk is used this way over half of the energy value of the skim milk is lost. Unless there is an excess of milk to be utilized it is more economical to use skimmed milk in place of water in bread-making, cereal cooking, cream vegetable soups and cereal milk puddings. When skim milk is used in place of whole milk it is well to evaporate it down in order to bring out flavor and to increase the food value of the dish. The so-called cereal puddings are made by cooking an equal volume of sugar and of rice or other cereal in twelve volumes of milk. This gives a nutritious and palatable dish that is equal in protein value; bulk for bulk, to rice puddings rich with eggs. When skim milk is used in bread it adds to the value of the loaf as much as one egg would. When used in place of water in cooking cereals it adds as much protein as three eggs would, besides changing and improving the flavor. Cream soups are simply mixtures of vegetables finely chopped or vegetable pulp and milk slightly thickened to which has been added some form of fat and seasonings. Every housekeeper should consider that milk is a bulky, perishable food necessary for growth which can be used generously in order that the extra meat supply may be shipped to the soldiers and allies. Don't wilfully waste as much as a spoonful of milk during the coming twelve months. It is true that many adults and even some children cannot drink raw milk, but where milk is combined with other foods or cooked, most people can assimilate it without difficulty. QUESTIONS. Can the Relief Society in your ward create public sentiment for clean milk? Show pictures of good cow barn. Discuss cleansing, separation, and milk utensils. Compare protein value and caloric value of milk with at least two other protein foods. Why is milk economical to use as food? A New Book on Z. C. M. I. Gospel Doctrine "The Way of Beauty Parlors Facial Massages Hair Dressing Eternal Life" Is the title of a book just issued. Manicuring It is written especially for young people by Bishop Edwin F. Parry. Hair and Scalp Treatments It is different to any other work on Nell C. Brown the gospel in that it not only explains the doctrines of salvation, Hair and Scalp Specialist but gives the reasons why the orin charge ordinances of the gospel are to be observed, and offers suggestions as Consultation Free to how they may be obeyed. It is just the right book for young Latter-day Saints. It will give them a very comprehensive understanding of the gospel, as it is written in a simple, plain, yet dignified style. Those who have read it speak highly of it as a book for the young. Your children should FREE! have it. Send for a copy and present it to them. It is neatly bound in cloth with gold title, and beautifully printed in large, clear type. "SO LONG, MOTHER" A very appropriate present for a "IT'S A LONG WAY TO BERLIN" young man or a young woman. (But we'll get there) Price, Postpaid, 75 Cents "THE STARS AND STRIPES Send orders to E. F.