February Home Entertainment.

Morag.

Birthday Calendar.

Feb. 4 President Charles W. Penrose's birthday.
Feb. 9  Patriarch Hyrum Smith's birthday.
Feb. 12  Lincoln's birthday.
Feb. 14  St. Valentine's birthday.
Feb. 22  George Washington's birthday.
Feb. 27  Longfellow's birthday.
Feb. 29  President Emmeline B. Wells' birthday.

The February hostess has a number of days on which she can entertain. The two holidays mentioned will be celebrated in a patriotic way by all loyal Americans. Literary people will pay due honor to our great poet, Longfellow, and the young folks will enjoy their Valentine parties.

For our Home Evening let us take the life of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, or the life of President Charles W. Penrose, as a subject. The Relief Societies throughout the world will do honor to our beloved President Emmeline B. Wells on this her ninetieth birthday. Materials for a program can be found in any of the Church magazines, in her poems, her writings, her unlimited efforts in behalf of the cause of woman. All women of Zion will unite to greet thee and wish thee continued health and happiness on thy natal day, our own loved Aunt Em.

A "Penrose" program.

Sing hymn, "Oh, Ye Mountains High."
Biographical sketch.
Read President Penrose as a writer and poet.
Sing hymn, "Beautiful Zion for Me."
Extracts from sermons.
Sing hymn, "School Thy Feelings, Oh My Brother."
Sing hymn, "Up, Awake, Ye Defenders of Zion."

CHURCH ENTERTAINMENT.

A Pie Supper (a sure money-maker).

The invitation:
Here are the pies you like the best,
We're willing now to stand the test.
Our pies are good, you cannot beat them,
So come along and help to eat them.

Place _______ Time _______
Admission _______ cents.


Serve: Individual chicken and meat pies. Rolls, celery, cocoa, mince and pumpkin pies. If no admission is charged, serve supper cafeteria style at so much per portion.

AN EVENING WITH PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.

The Patriarchal order was instituted in the days of Adam, and came down by lineage (See Doc. and Cov. Sec. 107). Of the Patriarchal authority the Lord has said: (Read Section 124:91-96). The History of Joseph Smith says: "An evangelist is a Patriarch, even the oldest man * * * * of the seed of Abraham."

The first Patriarch of the Church in this dispensation was Joseph Smith, Sr., father of the prophet. He was ordained to this office on December 18, 1833, under the hands of Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams. He traveled throughout the Church and preached the gospel and gave blessings to many hundreds of people. He died September 14, 1840.

A little over four months later his son Hyrum Smith was called by revelation to become his successor (Read Sec. 124, Doc. and Cov.)

Brief biography: Born Feb. 9, 1800, at Tunbridge, Vermont. Moved to western New York, about 1819. Married Jerusha Borden, 1826, by whom he had six children, Lovina, Mary, John, Hyrum, Jerusha, Sarah. After his wife's death he married Mary Fielding, in 1837, by whom he had Joseph F. and Martha.

Baptized in Seneca Lake June 29, by the Prophet Joseph. Became one of the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon. Nov. 7, 1837, was made Second Counselor to President Joseph Smith. Called by revelation to Patriarch's office, Jan. 19, 1841. Martyred with Joseph on June 27, 1844.

Of him the Lord said, "Blessed is my servant Hyrum Smith, for I, the Lord, love him, because of the integrity of his heart, and because he loveth that which is right before me, saith the Lord."

Impress on the hearts of the young folks the lessons of his faithfulness to the work of the Lord, unflinching fidelity to his brother Joseph, purity of heart, and all the other good qualities that belonged to this wonderful man.

For other data see Life of Joseph Smith and early Church works. A splendid sermon on the "Word of Wisdom" was given on page 490, Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 2, 1915.

FEBRUARY HOME ENTERTAINMENT. 85

Suitable hymns: "Sing, Sing the Wondrous Story," "Father of Life and Light," "Oh Give me back my Prophet Dear."

In every stake of the Church there is ordained a local Patriarch who acts under the direction of the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. Have you had a patriarchal blessing? If not, then read Genesis 27, call your family together, invite the Patriarch and a scribe to be present; make a little feast as they did in days of old, and receive a blessing through the Patriarch of the Lord, which shall be unto you as a light unto your feet, a comfort in time of trial, and a "rod of iron" to guide you until the end of life's journey.

KNITTING BEE.

Knitting bees are very popular just now, and a pleasant time may be spent by a group of happy women at the home of one of their number. Provide some good music, a good Victrola will be of use here, or have an interesting story read, or pass papers with a list of famous "Mormon" women. These may be guessed while the needles click merrily. The clue is given in the descriptive puzzle and also the initials of the word. A simple prize may be given to the one who guesses all the names correctly. Serve sweet apple cider or fruit punch, apple cake, and stick candy.

DELICIOUS APPLE CAKE.
(Eggless, milkless, butterless.)

2 cups sugar (or one sugar and one of syrup).
1 cup shortening.
2 cups sour apple sauce (rub through sieve).
1 cup chopped nuts.
1 cup chopped raisins.

Mix in order named. Sift together 4 cups of flour, 2 level teaspoons soda and spices to taste; add to other ingredients. Bake one and a quarter hours in moderate oven or until done.

[THIS IS FIGURE: A family photograph labeled "FAMILY OF WILLIAM JENNINGS TAKEN IN PIONEER DAYS."]

Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings.

To the members of the family of Sister Priscilla Paul Jennings:

To each member of the General Board of the Relief Society the sound of the New Year bells of 1918 brought both sadness and joy, sadness because we knew that the bells of heaven would soon call home, from the school of life, our sister Priscilla Paul Jennings; joy because we had been privileged to live in the light of her inspiration and love.

Our Father in heaven could have bestowed no greater blessing upon you than the honor of being the children of such a mother. Ever gentle, just and true, her spirit in tune with the harmonies of heaven and a Christ-like humanity in her heart, she lived the life of a Latter-day Saint. To say nothing of the spiritual things she did, the radiation of her spirit alone spread abroad countless influences for good.

Realizing our love for her, we can imagine how you will miss her. Familiar as we are with her artistic ideals of life, we know what the loss of that "welcome home" will mean to you. With like characteristic modesty she walked quietly and peacefully among her friends and associates. Her deeds of kindness, unknown to the world, are almost limitless. Ever seeking the poor and helpless she was a comfort and ministering angel. Ever anxious for the triumph of virtue she ceaselessly worked and prayed for those living in the cloud of temptation. Ever in tune with the teachings of Christ, she taught, by example, the love of humanity.