NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 101 North Sanpete Stake. There are thirteen ward Relief Societies in this stake. Out of this number eight Relief Society ward presidents are widows with large families. It is a peculiar fact that widows with children often make more of a success of the children and themselves than they do when blessed with loving husbands. In this stake the fifth Tuesdays are devoted to visiting the aged members of the Society who cannot get out to meetings. One ward Relief Society is purchasing a hall, and all the Relief Societies bought wheat to store against a time of need. Morgan Stake. All of the branches in this stake are in unusually prosperous condition. It was suggested by this stake that there were not available rooms in our Relief Society Home for those who wish to visit the city to do temple work or to attend conference. As a consequence of this report the Relief Society authority conferred with the Presiding Bishop's Office and a list of available lodging houses has been sent out to every bishop in the Church and can be obtained through this office or the Presiding Bishop's Office by anyone desiring this information. Bear River Stake. A Red Cross Auxiliary has been organized recently in this stake by Congressman Welling. Prior to this organization the Relief Society sisters collected $3,000 for Red Cross work. The stake officers planted one acre to potatoes and harvested 318 bushels from this acre. There are sixteen Relief Society nurses in this stake. When questioned by the sisters of this stake, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Council of the Twelve, and Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith counseled the sisters to purchase wheat with their wheat money, and to take good care of it. The recent decision of the General Board was that knitting shall not be done during our meeting hours except at the regular work meetings. The inattention which is an accompaniment of active fingers is not polite to the speaker or class teacher, nor does it permit the members to get the most out of their lesson work. Our sisters will have plenty of time at home and in the work meetings to do all the knitting for which they can obtain yarn and thus assist the Red Cross cause. Miss Betty McCune, who sailed for France November 5th, sent a cablegram to her parents upon her arrival in that country within a fortnight after sailing. She was well and in good spirits, but no further news has been received. By Janette A. Hyde. How much good has been received from the lessons given in the Magazine depends entirely upon how much time we have devoted to the study and preparation of the same. The main object in the outline work is to place before our women, a thoroughly scientific yet plainly worded study, in order that they may become possessed of such practical knowledge of foods as shall make them competent judges of food preparation, balanced rations, food projects, and food substitutes. If we are expected to win the war with food, we must be well-trained food soldiers, directed by the best general knowledge obtainable by study and experience. In the studying of foods, a thorough knowledge of production is also very necessary. We wish to emphasize the importance of milk and its byproducts as a food, especially for the babe and growing child. While it is true that well developed people may use other foods to sustain life, milk is indispensable to the life of growing children. The idea that there are milk substitutes for children is a mistaken one, and should be discountenanced, as many people deceived by such statements, and through this information are giving children inferior foods, with which, as they suppose, to build superior bodies. Good results do not follow improper feeding, and we find many children deprived of the most precious and righteous heritage, that of strong healthy bodies. If we do not return to some of the old-time customs and ways of producing and living, we will find the prospects for future development much retarded. We are short in the state of Utah, 10,000 milk cows, according to increase of population and decrease in the dairy herd. The loss has many phases besides the shortage in milk supply. It means less fertilization for farm and garden, fewer calves for future mother cows, lessened meat producing sources, with an extra shortage of shoe leather; besides the hundred and one extra products which come from the dairy cow. In the face of these facts, something should be done to stimulate the desire on the part of the farmer to increase his dairy herd. Let us suppose that 10 per cent of the 40,000 Relief Society sisters, would make preparations for one extra cow to be HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 103 added to the number already owned by the family. This we think, would start the proposition off in the right direction. At least, let us think the matter over very seriously and if we cannot see our way clear to commence this year, we can plan for the immediate future, to increase our milk-producing animals through individual effort. Impure milk can be made absolutely safe by pasteurization. To Pasteurize Milk. Pasteurizing milk can not be done accurately without a thermometer. The milk bottle should be placed upon a rack in a kettle of water, with a clean thermometer, inserted through the cover of the bottle. Heat the water slowly and watch the thermometer. When it reaches 155 F, see that the water becomes no hotter. Set the kettle on a rack on the stove top, or use a simmering burner with rack and asbestos mat. It is difficult to keep the temperature even, but it should remain at 140-155 F, half an hour. At the end of half an hour, the bottle should be removed, and cooled as rapidly as possible in running cold water. Rennet Custard. 1 qt. milk. 2 tb. sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla or two tab. of orange juice, or 1 t. vanilla and 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of cocoa. A shake of salt. To prepare: This is a process without cooking. Rennet tablets are made from the stomach of the calf, and contain the digestive enzyme, renin, which results in the solidifying of the curd of the milk. Rennet custard has passed the first stage of milk digestion. Put all of the flavoring substances into the milk, and warm it slightly, not more than 100 F. The cocoa when used should be "dissolved" in a small amount of hot water. Dissolve the rennet in a tablespoonful of cold water, and stir this very thoroughly into the milk Pour the milk into the cups in which the custard will be served, and set the cups in a warm but not hot place. A good method is to place them in a pan of warm water (100 F.). The milk becomes firm in a half hour or an hour, and as soon as it is set, should be put in the ice box, otherwise the process continues and the custard becomes watery as the curd shrinks and forces out the whey. Serve very cold with fruit on top, or whipped cream with the cocoa flavoring; or put grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon on the top. This is a simple and delicious dessert, and one of the most wholesome. For children it should be flavored with fruit juice or vanilla rather than with cocoa.