OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
By President Clarissa S. Williams
Instructions to Officers. Printed instructions for stake and ward officers are to be found in the Relief Society Stake and Ward Record Books. In the Stake book are outlined instructions to Stake officers (in front cover, and instructions to Ward officers in back cover.) In the Ward Record Book instructions to Ward officers are found both in front and back covers. Copies of these instructions are sent to stake presidents with the new issue of Record Books, and should be carefully preserved by them for reference by the Stake President and Board. It is recommended by the General Board that the instructions in the stake book to stake officers and to ward officers be read and discussed yearly at the September meeting of the Stake Board.
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE 289
It is recommended also that the instructions in the Ward Record Book be read and discussed yearly at the September meeting of the ward officers. Officers should read all instructions and circulars frequently, and thereby avoid the trouble of writing to the General Office to ask for information which is already at hand.
Membership. (See instructions in Relief Society Ward Record Books. See also Relief Society Magazine, June, 1922.)
New Members. It is suggested that the wards make it a general practice to receive new members on Work and Business day, although they may be admitted at any meeting. Before members are admitted the duties and privileges of membership should be explained to them, including responsibility regarding Annual Membership Dues—that all enrolled members should pay dues yearly. It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization. When members are enrolled in the Relief Society for the first time, it is expected that they pay their membership dues for the year in which they are admitted. However, when new members enter the organization after September 30, the dues paid at this time should be considered as covering the remainder of the current year and also the year following. (See instructions Relief Society Ward Record Book.)
Membership. It is desirable for L. D. S. Women to belong to the Relief Society, even though they are unable, through illness, occupation, or for other reasons, to attend meetings. Any L. D. S. Woman who is eligible, and who is willing to pay dues, should be gladly received. While the Relief Society appreciates a good average attendance, and works for it, still it appreciates more the membership, the sympathy and support of the women of the Church. There are many aged and home-bound women who can never attend; there are busy women and working women who cannot attend; there are women with little children who cannot leave them; and there are even women who seem to have no special reason for not attending meetings, but who still prize membership, pay dues and contribute liberally to the organization. All of these we would welcome and claim as members.
Stake Board members should be enrolled in the ward in which they live and should pay annual dues through the ward. They should be recognized as members of the ward Relief Society. (See instructions, Relief Society Ward Record Book.)
FUNDS
1. (See instructions in Ward Record Book.)
2. Division of Funds When Reorganization Occurs. Funds


which are on hand in the stakes and wards at the time divisions occur, should be divided between the new and old organizations. The funds may be equally divided or divided proportionately with the number of members in each division.
3. Charity Funds. It has been reported in a number of group conventions that the charity funds are low and inadequate in some wards, due to two reasons—first, the family is often away from home when the teachers' visit is made and therefore no contribution is made for the month; or secondly, the family doesn't happen to have change, therefore no contribution is made. It is recommended by the General Board that L. D. S. Families make an effort to set aside a certain amount monthly for contribution to the Relief Society, and to see that this contribution reaches the officers, in case it has not been possible to hand it to the teachers on their visit, due to the above reasons.
4. Temple Funds. Temple Funds contributed for Temple work for women may be sent directly to the Temple with the names attached, or with the statement that the money is to be used for work on women's Temple lists; or the fund may be turned over to the Genealogical Department in the stakes and wards, to be sent by them with stake and ward names. The 50c Temple donation by Relief Society women, which is given in lieu of one day's work for a woman in the Temple, is to be used for the names of women only—it should not be diverted for Temple maintenance or for any other purpose.
Night Meetings. The General Board prefers that Relief Society meetings be held in the afternoon of Tuesday, each week. However, in communities where the Priesthood has directed that the Relief Society should hold meetings in the evening, we recommend that the sisters comply with the request. Where Relief Society meetings are held in the evening, we recommend that the Relief Society either hold separate opening exercises from the Priesthood, or that they make a special request that the opening exercises be limited sufficiently so that the class work may not be interfered with nor neglected. Also that a work meeting be held once a month in the day time, in order that the sewing and other activities of the organization shall not be interfered with, and that arrangements be made for regular visits by Stake Board members.
Theology and Testimony Meeting. In view of the fact that Theology and Testimony are given at the same meeting (the first Tuesday in the month) and that some wards have complained that they do not have sufficient time, the General Board recommends that where there is a large enrollment, and where desired otherwise, the time for this meeting be extended fifteen minutes, and cover one and three-fourths hours—from 2 o'clock to 3:45 P. M.
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE 291
which should give sufficient time to cover the work. In such wards it is suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the theology and 35 minutes to testimony. This will leave 25 minutes for opening and closing and for any business that may need attention. In smaller wards where the extra fifteen minutes is not needed nor desired, and one and one-half hours is sufficient, it is suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the lesson, 20 minutes to testimony, and 25 minutes for opening and closing and business. In both cases the theology lesson should close promptly at the end of 45 minutes, when testimony should begin. Testimonies need not be lengthy. A large number of short, spirited testimonies may easily be given in the time allotted. It is suggested that any business not needing immediate attention be deferred until the next meeting.
Relief Society Year. (Vacation or open period extended one month and course of study reduced from ten to nine months.) At the October, 1925, Conference it was decided that the regular full time Relief Society work year, with weekly meetings, be shortened one month and cover a nine month period from October 1 to June 30; and that the required lesson course be arranged for this period; that the months of July, August and September, the summer period, be left open for any arrangements decided upon by the stakes, the only requirement being that the work and business meeting be held. Where desirable, stakes may arrange a special summer program, and use as many Tuesdays as they desire for the same. It was decided also that September be set aside for special work preliminary to the opening of classes in October, and be used for teachers' conventions, and special meetings introductory to the regular year's work.
Ward Conferences. It is the desire of the General Board that ward conferences be held on Sunday in preference to any other day. The object of the ward conference is to place the Relief Society work before the people of the ward and it is felt that this can best be done in a Sunday meeting when the public is in attendance.
Visits of Stake Officers to Wards. All wards should be visited at least once a year, or twice, if possible. Where it is convenient, wards may be visited with profit once a month or once in two months.
Questions from Wards. All letters to the General Office from wards and branches containing questions about local work are referred back to the stake and mission presidents of the locality for answer and instruction.
Social Service Aids. It is recommended that those women who have been appointed to assist the ward presidents with the actual charity and social problems in the wards, be designated as


"Social Service Aids" in contra distinction to the term "Social Workers," which latter term refers to trained full time workers who are more or less professional. The class leaders in the Social Service Department may or may not be the Social Service Aids in addition. In some instances the class leader and the Social Service Aid is one and the same person, but in most cases separate individuals have been selected for each position.
Magazine Agents. The allowance of 10%, formerly allowed magazine agents has been discontinued. This action was taken in order to keep the subscription price of the magazine at $1.00 per year. Agents are allowed to deduct, from the total amount sent in for lists of subscriptions, the postage and money order fees charged them when making remittances to the Magazine office.
Releases. Where Stake Board members are unable through illness or because of advanced age, to give active service in the Relief Society they and the Relief Society Stake President should advise with the Stake President as to the advisability of their remaining on the Stake Board.
Standard Price for Quilting. It is recommended that the minimum price for tying quilts be $1.25; minimum price for quilting soft outing flannel quilts, where strips are merely sewed together, $2.00; minimum price for quilting piece quilts $3.00. That for complicated designs and fancy quilts, the price be raised according to the amount of labor required in doing the work; for joining strips together for comforters or for linings, minimum price 25 cents.
Maternity Bundles and Accessories. It has been reported that after some of the wards began to sell maternity bundles and to rent maternity utensils and
accessories, there was a great demand for them. Many people are willing to pay for these articles and for the use of them but are unwilling! To borrow them or accept their use for nothing. Where articles are rented they are paid for in advance, and are always returned laundered. Suggestive price list— lc per day for each article. 1c per day for each utensil. Teachers' Topic. It has been recommended that the Teachers' topic be given in the Work and Business Meeting before it is discussed in the homes. The object is to give information and to open avenues of thought both to the members and the teachers, so that when the topic is given later in the home, the hostess as well as the teachers will have something to contribute to the discussion. In order for this to be done it is necessary for the topic to be discussed in the Work and Business Meeting several weeks previous to the time it is used in the homes. For example RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE — 293 the February topic should be discussed in the January Work and Business Meeting. Teachers' Books. The General Board recommends that stake and ward officers insist that the visiting teachers use the Teachers' Book upon their visits to families. The book is arranged by the General Board, and secured by the wards for this purpose, and should be used according to instruction. Memorials and Loan Funds. Four memorials have been established for past General Presidents of the Relief Society, in the form of a Yearly Prize Poem Contest, a Gift for Sacred Temple Service and two Loan Funds. Two additional Loan Funds for Public Health Nursing, and Social Service Training, have also been established. The Prize Poem Contest is known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest. $750.00 has been set aside, the interest only to be used as prizes. The memorial provides for two prizes—first and second -—to he paid annually to the winners of the first and second prizes in the Poem Contest to be conducted annually; the winning poems te be published each year in the January number of the Relief Society Magazine. The first prize consists of $20.00; the second prize of $10.00. The Temple Grant is known as Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, for which $750.00 has been set aside, the interest only to be used for Temple work. The memorial provides for Temple work for women, the amouut to be given yearly to one of the Temples, beginning with the first Temple established and dedicated—the others to receive it in rotation. The names to be worked for are to be taken from the Charity Lists of the various Temples. The Loan Funds are as follows: 1. The Zina D. H. Young Nurse Loan Fund for girls desiring to enter hospital for training—known as the Zina D, H. Young Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund for Nurses. $750.00 has been set aside for this Loan Fund. Loans may be secured through the office of the general Secretary; 2. A Loan Fund for college girls of the upper classes at the Brigham Young University—known as the Emmeline B Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund. This Loan Fund consists of $1,000.00, which is administered by the Board of the Brigham Young University. Applications for this Fund should be made to the Brigham Young University; 3. A Public Health Nurse Loan Fund for graduate nurses desiring to enter a college for training in Public Health Nursing. $1,500.00 has been set aside for this fund. Applications for this fund should be made to the office of the General Secretary; 4. A Social Service Loan Fund for college girls desiring 
 to study Social Service as a profession. $1,500.00 has been set aside for this Loan Fund. Applications for this fund should be made through the office of the General Secretary. Summer Outings for Children. Summer outings for children were so successful last year, that we are desirious of sending more children out this year if possible. The past winter has been one of unemployment for many. In homes where this condition has existed, many children have been without the necessities of life. An outing in the country would be like a pleasant dream for them. All of the children who were sent away last year are continually asking, "When will it be Summer again?" and when they come to the office, they inquire anxiously if they are to be on the lucky list this year. One little nine-year-old boy said yesterday: "I hope you are going to send me away this year 'cause I promised the man I stayed with last summer, I would come back and work for him this year." If there are any applications for children this vear we would like them sent to Relief Society office not later than June 1. They should state how many children may be accommodated and when they may come. July and August are the warmest months in the city and would therefore be the best months for the children to be away. Last summer most of the applications were for girls; we hope the boys will be more in favor this year. Social Service Institutes: President Williams announced that the General Board is now prepared to hold social service institutes wherever they are desired. These institutes consist of a course of lectures in social welfare work. With additional special lectures and a discussion of required reading. The object of the institute is to train Relief Society women in the best possible methods of family welfare work. The instructors will be furnished by the welfare department at Relief Society headquarters, the cnly expense to the stake being the railroad fare of the instructor and her board and room while she is in the stake. The course covers one or two weeks, depending upon how many hours are devoted to the work each day. Books for required reading will be loaned to the stakes from the library in the welfare department. OFFICERS' MEETING—AFTERNOON SESSION Note: The addresses given at this session by Dean L. John Nuttall on "How to Teach;" and of Dr. Arthur L. Beeley, on "Modern Methods of Dealing with Behavior Disorders," and the addresses of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Miss Alice Louise Reynolds will appear in full in the July Magazine. 