
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1906						No. 10


CONTENTS.
Gladys (Poem)........................... Lydia D. Alder	65
True Patriotism............ Hattie Critchlow Jensen	66
Sketch of a Heroine........................ Louisa Gray	66
Mothers’ Work.................................. Lou Lewis	66
Thoughts by the Way............................ A. W. C.	67
Mary Gray............................................ Millicent	67
Gone, But Not Forgotten............ Lydia D. Alder	70
In Memoriam......................................................	70
A Tribute of Love...............................................	71
Executive Session, Etc.......................... E. B. W.	71
Relief Society Reports.........................................	67
Editorial:—A Pretty May Day Party....................	68
	Earthquake and Fire.....................................	68
	Elizabeth J. Stevenson.................................	68


GLADYS.
O Gladys, fair with sunny hair,
	And merry eyes of changing blue,
Just as emotions soft are there,
	Or smiling mischief dances through.

How oft I see thee as of yore,
	In happy girlhood’s fleeting hour,
Ere yet love’s myst’ry—wond’rous love—
	Had stirred thy heart by magic power.

So radiant thou before Love’s shrine—
	The world is all ablaze with love—
Joy, tremulous with love is thine,
	As witching as the worlds above.

Ah! then to go is law divine—
	A bride just at the threshold waits;
Thrilled is her heart by thoughts sublime,
	Ere yet she leaves parental gates.

A moment she communes—’tis past—
	Then hand in hand the world they brave;
No thought that shadows long must cast
	Their length upon ONE open grave.

And wifehood brings thee mother love—
	There thou didst tread with willing feet—
And from the realms of joy above,
	An infant makes thy bliss complete.

Years pass away and round thy heart
	Cling buds of promise—precious ties—
Then from them all thou sad must part
	And wend thy way back to the skies.

And Gladys fair with sunny hair
	In bridal robes is laid away.
With sobs of pain, a tender prayer,
	Until the Resurrection day.

Sigh ev’ning winds—O breathe of love!
	Peace whispers where the idol sleeps;
For glorious in the worlds above,
	She dwells for whom the mourner weeps.
					LYDIA D. ALDER,
	A Tribute of Love to Gladys,
		Who was laid to rest
			February 27, 1906.


[Column 1]
		TRUE PATRIOTISM.

	“Lives there the man with soul so dead,
	Who never to himself hath said
	This is my own my native land!”

	Patriotism is one of the distinctive char-
acteristics of the truly great man or wo-
man.

[Column 2]
	Ever since Adam was placed in the
Garden of Eden, and was commanded to
“till and take care of it—to be happy and
enjoy himself”—a love of home and coun-
try has burned more or less brightly in
the hearts of all God’s children, and will
continue to do so until we all “come into
our own.
	History gives us many noble examples
of patriotic men and women, whose deeds
of valor and heroic sacrifice we point to
with pride.
	’Tis a man’s prerogative to fight the bat-
tles of his country. ’Tis a woman’s to
remain at home; perchance to weep but
nevertheless valiantly taking upon her-
self the double responsibility of father
and mother; but because her labor is per-
formed, perforce, far from the scene of
the bloody conflict, is she less patriotic
than he who meets the foe face to face?
No! a thousand times no!
	While her husband, father or brother
is engaged in the struggle for supremacy,
actively pushing by his own endeavors the
outcome to a successful finish,—be it in
the halls of Congress where laws are
made, whereby hang the destiny of na-
tions, or on the field of battle—his heart
can but feebly realize the agonizing sus-
pense of hope deferred, and the uncer-
tainty of meagre detail in time of action,
which is the common lot of the waiting
ones at home.
	Woman’s patriotism is best shown by
her faith, and the outcome of the results
she helped to obtain when she sends her
loved ones from her saying:

	Fight for your country!
		Die if it need be;
	Stand true to your colors
		And God will defend thee!

	If she is gifted with her pen she will
incite to fresh deeds of courage, and build
up the flagging hopes of her countrymen.
	It is a much discussed question, “which
is mighter the pen or the sword,” and the
preponderance of opinion, I think, is in
favor of the former.
	Every nation boasts of its patriots, and
emblazoned upon the pages of its history
there stand the sentiments and expres-
sions of patriotic fervor which make for
its people an ensign from which future
generations may obtain inspiration for
fresh deeds of glory.
	What woman has read the history of
Madame Roland without a feeling of gen-
uine admiration for her patriotism, and the
courage she displayed when she mount-
ed the scaffold for her execution, exclaim-
ing: “Oh liberty, how many crimes are
committed in thy name!”
	Our own country has produced exam-
ples of courage and perseverance, among
women equal to and not exceled by any
other.
	’Tis true that since we became an inde-
pendent nation and liberty and freedom
of the press have been open to all, none
have been required to sacrifice their lives
to establish principles which are theirs by
right of divine inheritance. But, should

[Column 3]
occasion require, we have many Madame
Rolands among our countrywomen.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there is a
strong feeling of patriotism—a love of
country—which animates every breast,
and while we are made up as a people
from almost every nation under heaven,
yet we all unite in singing:

		“My country ’tis of thee
		Sweet land of Liberty
			Of thee I sing.”

	The latter-day Saints when considering
the limitations of their preconceived no-
tions of country, native land, home of
birth, etc., find, with the advent of the
Gospel into their hearts, a more compre-
hensive knowledge of what patriotism
really is, than is generally acceded among
other peoples; namely, that our county
is Zion—“Zion the pure in heart,”—
wherever its boundaries may extend. It
will in time cover the whole earth and ex-
tend into the sanctuaries of heaven; then
we can truly say:

		God is my Father.
			“My country, the world.
		Do good, my religion”—
			My banner’s unfurled.

	Not all patriots, yet, comprehend this
large view of country; but those under-
standing the Gospel of Jesus Christ which
teaches the Fatherhood of God, and the
Brotherhood of man, will be able to do
so. The gifted writers and poets of our
people have made this principle a theme
of many of their most inspired songs.
Pre-eminent among these stands the name
of Sister Eliza R. Snow.
	One cannot read her poem entitled
“Nationality” without being inspired by
strong patriotic fervor coupled with a 
highly developed spiritual sense which
place her at once as one of the most
loyal, faithful and obedient subjects of
the City of Zion, in the Kingdom of
Heaven.
	I will close this article by quoting a few
excerpts from the above mentioned poem:

“One might as well my thoughts exterminate—
My place in pedigree annihilate—
Or the warm pulse of life eradicate—
As to efface or to remove from me
The sentiment of nationality.
It of my nature constitutes a part—
Unites with all the life blood of my heart;
And if no trait or portion of my spirit
’Tis something I eternally inherit.
Not all the charms surrounding scenes impart
Can chase the high-toned feelings from my heart,
For oft—full oft so tenderly they yearn
A kindly impulse prompts a fond return
Unto the land of my nativity—
My native home—my native scenery.
But where—O where the land so choice, so dear?
Which is the nation I so much revere?

I say with Brother Eddington, I am not
Iialian, Hindoo, English, German, Scot.
Neither American, Swiss, Welsh, or Dane,
Nor yet an Islander from ocean’s main.
Nor Spanish, French, Norwegian, nor Swede.
I claim no country, nation, kingdom, creed
Excepting Zion; that I proudly name,
Home of all homes that home I fondly claim.
Were I to boast of nationality.
I’d look beyond this frail mortality.

The Holy Spirit every Saint receives


Is one sense added to what nature gives.
And forms a powerful telescope whereby
We look beyond the stretch of mortal eye
Its keen perception takes a view
Of origin and destination too.
Through this superior spirit sense we learn
What our inferior sense can ne’er discern,
That we’re not natives of this of this fallen earth.
We lived before—we had an earlier birth.
A clime and habitation highly pure
Beyond what these gross senses can endure.
Our hearts beat upwards and our feelings move
In homeward currents up to those we love,
Where uncorrupted nature’s beauties glow
Where life’s pure streams from endless foun-
	tains flow;
And there the sixth—the spirit sense will lead
If to its dictates we give earnest heed;
And its refining process will prepare
Us for a full and free reception there.
And there we’ll talk of nationality
With the celestials of eternity.
		HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF A HEROINE.
	Away in the quaint little village of Kil-
berry Argyleshire, among the flowery
glens and nooks of bonnie Scotland, on
March 12, 1824, Jane McKinnon Baxter
first beheld the light of day. Her life was
spent in a quiet and uneventful way as
most Scottish lassie’s are. The religious
training she received was the stern, iron
clad doctrines of the parish church and
the old family Bible at home. When
about twenty years of age she found her
way to the City of Greenock, a manu-
facturing center, here she heard for the
first time a true Gospel sermon. Some-
thing that she had been groping for, a
something that sounded in her eager, list-
ening ears like the tinkling bells and
roused her slumbering thoughts to action.
She knew the voice of the true shepherd
and soon became a member of the fold.
Here she met the man of her choice,
Archibald McPhail, and to him she was
united in marriage in the year 1840.
	In 1856 they took a fond farewell of
friends, home and country and accom-
panied by their little daughter Jane, four
years old, they boarded one of those slow
sailing vessels which took them safely
across the briny deep after a long and
tedious sail of nine weeks.
	But the arduous and faith trying jour-
ney lay in sullen grandeur before this un-
suspecting band of Saints, who had left
the comforts of a civilized country to un-
dertake the unparalleled task, with the first
handcart company across the trackless
desert, frequented only by the savage red-
skins. the home of the wild deer and the
roaming buffalo. While struggling through
the many hardships, privations, want, hun-
ger and sickness that visited this heroic
band of pilgrims, her husband took ser-
iously ill, becoming exhausted and unfit
for the unequal task before him. With
that wifely devotion which only our pion-
eer mothers knew, she meekly took her
place by the couch of her dying husband,
comforting him by day, and her vigilant
watch was kept up at night by the faint
glimmer of a tallow candle.
	As she waited in calm sadness envel-
oped in the silence of the night, she im-
plored the God whom she conscientously
served, to help her endure the trying or-
deal, also that the candle would continue
to burn, as it was all she had, until she
witnessed her bosom friend and loved one
close his eyes in death. In that awful
hour of supreme agony her confiding faith

[Column 2]
in Him to lend a listening ear, doubted
not, and the humble petition as it floated
on the wings of the somber night from
the lips of one of the daughters of the
lonely wilderness met the approval of
Him who seeth in secret. And as the
king of terrors struggled with his victim
for victory while the fast ebbing life flick-
ered in the balance, the scanty light also
battled to fill its mission until the heart-
broken scene was closed, Though thrown
into the depth of affliction her integrity
in the work she had espoused never grew
less, never faltered, and her confidence in
God remained unshaken as the mystic
mountains that surrounded her.
	No costly shroud or marble casket en-
cased that noble body as it lay in state
waiting for the dawn of morn to consign
it to mother earth. The many lives that
were laid on the altar of sacrifice for the
sake of truth, during that bitter exodus
with the countless perils and foreboding is
nobler by far than the hero on the field
of battle, fighting and falling for the glory
of his country. 
	You nor I witnessed the falling tears of
our heroine, as she whispered “All is
well,” and took a last look as she turned
away from the lonely mound, resuming
the tedious journey with her little daugh-
ter gazing wistfully in childish wonder-
ment at the tear-bedimmed face of her
mother. In December of the same year
they reached their long looked for destin-
ation, the haven of the refugee.
	The emigrant of today. whirling along
reclining on cushions of velvet, idly
dreaming in luxurious ease, cannot sense
the emotions of our pioneer fathers and
mothers when their weary, bleeding feet
rested on the spot where the modern
Moses was inspired to say, “Enough; this
is the place.”
	Although tattered and torn, with faces
begrimed from long exposure, with thank-
ful hearts they knelt on the grey sage-
brush to return thanks to Him who per-
mitted them to reach the gathering place
of the Saints.
	As the old adage goes, “A friend in
need is a friend indeed,” so this was the
case with our worthy subject. Here she
formed the acquaintance of Robert Bax-
ter, whom she subsequently married and
by whom she had two children, a boy and
a girl, the girl dying when quite young.
Her son, John M. Baxter, is now presi-
dent of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.
	A little over 33 years ago, when the
Bear Lake Stake was settled, our heroine
was among the number who came to sub-
due the elements and battle with frontier
life.
	When the Randolph Relief Society was
organized she was chosen as first coun-
selor to Sarah M. Tyson, which position
she held for twenty-nine years.
	At or about this time the crowning
epoch of her life dawned upon her, and a
new field of labor presented itself.
	Apostle Wilford Woodruff, being moved
upon by inspiration, called and set her
apart to fill the responsible position of
midwife for the community.
	As the science of obstetrics was entire-
ly unknown to her, she was loth to accept
the mission, but her objections faded like
the snowflakes in the river, when the
hands of the beloved Apostle were placed
upon her head, and he pronounced one of
the most wonderful blessings through di-

[Column 3]
vine inspiration that human lips could
utter, to her this blessing was priceless;
in it lay joy and unlimited satisfaction.
From the counsels of the Apostle she
never departed, but cherished them far
beyond all the contributions that science
could produce.
	Hers was no blind obedience, but a
humble acknowledgement of the living
priesthood that was reflected in all her
actions.
	In this blessing was couched the prom-
ise that if she remained firm and faithful
to this calling she would never lose a
case. Those words of inspiration never
lost their effect, her efforts were crowned
with marvelous success. During the
long period of some thirty odd years’
practice she never lost a case.
	In the evening of her well-spent life it
was pleasant to spend an hour with
Grandma, as she took you back through
the hallway of Father Time and related
some of her wonderful experiences.
	When that humble and well-beloved
Apostle, Owen Woodruff, paid his last
visit to our settlement she desired a bless-
ing at his hand, as she felt the ravages of
time fast creeping in upon her, the
thought of lingering and suffering or be-
coming a charge seemed to mar the noble
independent spirit that characterized her
whole life seemed to manifest itself. Her
request was granted and his words verily
came to pass, as did the prophecy of his
venerable father so many years before,
she passed peacefully away in the pres-
ence of her devoted son and daughter.
	She, like many others, has left foot-
prints on the sands of time for you and
me to emulate, for she has gone before to
receive a well earned reward.
					LOUISA GRAY.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Lecture 1.— Obedience. Reference:
Gen. 6, 7 and 8 ch., Gen. 22 ch.; Ex. 16
ch., 27 to 31 v; Eph. 5 ch., 22, 23 and 33
v., 6 ch., 1, 2 and 3 v.; 1 Nephi, 16 ch.,
9 to 16 v.; 1 Nephi, 17 ch., 7 to 19 v., 18
ch., 1 to 4 v.
	Lecture 2.—Patience. Matt. 27 ch.;
Doc. and Cov., sec. 98, 23 to 26 v., sec.
101, 5 v.; Romans 5 ch., 2 and 3 v. Read
or recite poem, “Send the children to
bed with a kiss.”
	Lecture 3.—Self Denial. Reference:
Matt. 10 ch., 16 to 39 v.; Matt. 26 ch., 53
v.; Doc. and Cov. sec. 103. 27 and 28 v.,
119 ch. on Tithing sec. 72, 15 v.
	Lecture 4.—Domestic Economy. Or-
der and system in the home. Economy
of time and means. Cleanliness and care
of personal appearance.
	Lecture 5.—Evil Effects of Patent Med-
icine. Reference: Era (Editor’s Table),
June, 1902. Appetites for drugs and li-
quor formed by their use, also injury to
health.
	Lecture 6.—Our Home. Unity, love
and reverence in the home. Provide our
children with amusements. Enjoy the
society of your children as time passes.
Extend sympathy in childish troubles.
Reverence for the Sabbath day and the
Priesthood.
	Committee:
			EMMA SMITH,
			LAURETTA PEHRSON,
			MARY F. CROWTHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	THOUGHTS BY THE WAY.
		GROWING YOUNG.

	To, grow young, may be a paradoxical
expression, but it may be a possibility for
all that—not in years, of course, but in
manner and feeling. I know, and you
readers of the EXPONENT know, two beau-
tiful examples of this paradox; perhaps
we know more, but standing boldly before
the women of Zion today, in this respect,
are our two beloved leaders in Woman’s
work, “Aunt Bathsheba” and “Aunt Em.”
Their secret I don’t know, unless it has
always been their wonderful work, al-
ways thinking and planning for the ad-
vancement and care of others, uncom-
plainingly and unselfishly, giving their
time and talent to the betterment and 
building up of womankind, and yet withal
so sweet and womanly, so tender and so
true. 
	We had a party this lovely month of
May, when all nature breathed loveliness
and perfume. when all the hills were
crowned with verdure and bright flowers,
and the orchard trees put on their loveli-
est apparel of pink and white. What
time more fitting for a party? What day
more fair than dear Aunt Bathsheba’s
birthday? and she the fairest of all. Why
not forget sometimes that we are growing
old? In fact at such a time it would be
hard to believe we were. At any rate,
on this day time stood still, and those
who looked and participated in this May-
Day party all were young again, and the
youngest and gayest of us all was she in
whose honor we met, though her years
might number eighty-four. Dressed in
shimmering silk of white, with soft rare
lace, we called her that day Queen, and
we brought her flowers in wreaths and
garlands—beautiful lilies of the valley
and fragrant apple blossoms, and we
crowned her, as in the long ago as chil-
dren we used to play and choose among
our number, some fair, beautiful compan-
ion and make her “Queen of the May.”
We brought her gifts, sang her songs,
told her our love, and read to her heart
poems. And why? “Just because we
loved her so.”
	Oh, how blessed to come so near the
“end of the way” in such serenity of soul
assured of our heart of a perfect well
spent life! Blessed, a thousand times
blessed is she, our beloved leader—our
dear Aunt Bathsheba. 
	Modern grandmothers. When I was a
little girl I used to feel as though a great
injustice had been done me, because I
never had a grandma; and now, as the
years have passed, I don’t know but
what I still think the same; for surely,
the very dearest, sweetest things in all
this world are the grandmothers. Long
years ago we used to picture the grand-
ma like a set piece of furniture in the 
house, sitting ever in the chimney corner,
in an old-fashioned rocking chair, dressed
in a black frock and a large apron, a small,
three-cornered shawl on her shoulders and
a cap on her head, her hands always busy
with flashing knitting needles or darning
the family stockings; at evening telling
the children stories of her own childhood,
or of how children were taught to behave
in her young days; of the dear, quaint
manners of the long ago, with the stately
minuet and the powdered wigs. and the
buckled shoes. Doesn’t it seem strange
that dames of that day should ever settle

[Column 2]
down to be just a household oracle, sit-
ting quietly by, while the younger folks
have all the variety and all the pleasure
of the times?
	But the nineteenth century was the
woman’s century, and mothers of that
day kept pace with the times, and they
became grandmas’ with their advanced
ideas and education. A wonderful trans-
formation took place, so that the twenti-
eth century baby finds its grandma a mar-
velously busy, up-to-date woman, dressed
in the best and latest of apparel, with
hands flashing with jewels instead of knit-
ting needles. She has her clubs and 
her philanthropic work. She sits on 
school boards and civic leagues, and ar-
gues and works for the renovation of
cities and the hygienic and artistic con-
dition of our public schools; and some-
times she, too, at evening, tells us stories
of the long ago in most perfect and de-
lightful phraseology, and she always has
something sweet and good in her pretty
reticule, so she is just as sweet and dear,
and much more interesting, than the
grandma of long ago. What though her
hair be white, it is dressed in the latest
style, with combs and pins becoming,
and the lines in the sweet face may but
mark the care she may have felt for us,
and both give a halo and refinement be-
tokening well spent years.
	All hail the new grandmother! She is
just one symbol of an advanced age.
						A. W. C.


[Column 1]
			MARY GRAY.
Thou art gone to the grave, we no longer behold
	thee,
Nor tread the rough path of the world by thy side.

	Gone from our mortal gaze indeed, but
not to the grave; the bright, beautiful
spirit, freed from the cares of earth and
the fetters of age, has but followed its
loved ones, and there is joy in the home,
“Not builded by hands.” today because of
her.
	Tears and sobs, the heritage of mortal-
ity, fell upon her pillow, and broke upon
the stillness of death, as she passed into
her last long sleep; but smiles and songs
of joy the rapture of delayed reunion,
met her there.
	How many who read the dear familiar
name will remember with full hearts how
the “rough paths” were almost pleasant
places where she led the way. With feet
that never faltered, and a heart whose
deep springs of love and abiding faith
never failed, she stood, even in the days
of her youth, a strength and support to
her widowed mother and family, and won
for herself many lifelong friends among
the strangers with whom their lot was
cast.
	No difficulty could bar her way, no
frown of fortune daunt her brave true
heart; shadows and doubt and dismay fled
from her bright presence as mist before
the morning sun.
	The writer looks back from this far dis-
tant land, down through the dim shad-
ows of years that have come and gone, to
the old home, where “Mary” was to her
childish eyes the embodiment of all that
was beautiful and lovely in life; the pic-
ture is there still, will never fade,
will never grow dim, and above it, Mem-
ory writes the words that the child might

[Column 2]
understand but could not express, “A
creature fresh from the hand of God.”
	That freshness of heart, that vitality,
that purity of mind and purpose, illu-
mined all the years of her life, and shone
from the coffined face whereon “joy of
the departing spirit had left its impress.”
	In her the friendless found a friend;
her heart had room and comfort for the
tempted and distressed; and in the hour
of sorrow, sickness and death how many
hearts have turned to Mary Gray, sure of
sympathy, of help and support, such as
comes only from hearts “wherein the
pure love of God aboundeth.”
	Mary Elizabeth Russell was the eldest
daughter of Isaac and Mary Walton Rus-
sell, and was born in the city of Toronto,
Canada, Feb, 11, 1833.
	After the death of her father, in 1844,
the family settled in the vicinity of Rich-
mond, Missouri, where they remained un-
til the year of 1861; in the spring of that
year commenced the long journey to Salt
Lake City, arriving at that place on the
13th of September.
	Mary E. Russell was married to An-
drew Scott Gray, March 15, 1862; she
was the mother of eight children, four
boys and four girls, of whom five survive
her. They are Andrew, John, Mary W.,
George R. Gray, Jennie I. Tanner and
Lucy R. Davey.
	Mary Gray was a faithful Latter-day
Saint up to the time of her death, and a
true and devoted wife and mother. Her
public duties were in connection with the
Relief Society, of which she was a mem-
ber from the time it was first organized,
and a counselor to President Sarah M.
Kimball; she was re-elected as first coun-
selor to H. A. Badger, which position she
held until the Fifteenth Ward was divid-
ed, in March, 1903, part of the ward being
joined to the Fourteenth and the other to
the Twenty-fourth as it was then.
	Sister Gray passed from this life Nov.
21st, 1905, after a short illness, while vis-
iting relatives and friends in Idaho Falls,
Idaho, her husband, Andrew Scott Gray
having preceded her May 8th, 1899.
					MILLICENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom and mercy has seen fit to remove from our
midst by the hand of death, on the 23rd of Febru-
ary, 1906,
	SISTER EMILY ELSMORE LEWIS,
	Be it resolved that we hereby extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved husband and chil-
dren, and to all who shall miss her loving service
and the refining influence of her noble charac-
ter; and be it further
	Resolved by the officers and missionaries of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, in which corps
Sister Lewis was a faithful and efficient member,
that we cherish her memory as a sacred inherit-
ance and emulate her good example; furthermore
be it
	Resolved that we acknowledge the Father’s will
in our loss and bow to the mandates of an All-wise
Creator who doeth all things well; for
	He who marks the sparrow’s fall
	Is now as ever over all;
	And unto those who do His will
	He brings sweet comfort, “Peace be still.”
	Be it further resolved that a copy of these reso-
lutions be filed on the Stake records of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, and also be published
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					HATTIE C. JENSEN,
					HARRIET B. HARKER,
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		MAY, 1906


[Column 1]
	A PRETTY MAY DAY PARTY.
	A very beautiful day was Wednesday,
the third of May, 1906; the skies were
blue and the balmy air was filled with the
sweet fragrance of lilies, lilacs, and ap-
ple-blossoms. All nature seemed trying
to make the day glorious. It was the
eighty-fourth anniversary of the birthday
of the woman who stands pre-eminent be-
fore all other women in Zion, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, we call her “The
Elect Lady.” The committee of arrange-
ments who had been selected to take
charge of the affair, had made every pre-
paration carefully, Sister Rebecca E.
Little had opened her elegant home for
the happy occasion, and the rooms were
tastefully decorated with sweet flowers.
The guests were in gala spirits, waiting to
do honor to the fair lady whose natal
day they had assembled to celebrate.
	She was elegantly attired in a beautiful
white silk gown, every thread Utah silk,
and the entire fabric manufactured in
Salt Lake City and presented to her by
the ladies of the Board; the elegant lace
trimmings were of the finest quality, and
the scarf the lady wore upon her snow
white hair was the finest of Spanish lace.
Mrs. Smith is a typical Virginian lady,
stately, tall and dignified, graceful in
movement and gracious in manner. The
ladies gathered round her with congratu-
lations and gifts and a few gentlemen
who honored the occasion with their pres-
ence paid her marked attention. President
John R. Winder brought greetings from
the First Presidency to the lady, with
eighty-four pure white carnations, pre-
senting them in his genial way with the
usual compliments and congratulations.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took charge
of the program, and called upon the
singers and speakers; after the opening
hymn and a speech from Apostle George
A, Smith about the Smith family. Sister
Emmeline B. Wells made an impromptu
address in behalf of the guests, and read
a Poem written expressly for the birthday
entitled “The Elect Lady,” in which the
guest of honor was crowned with a tiara
of lilies of the valley, a fitting symbol of
her singularly beautiful life, by Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon. Following this,
the committee, Sisters J. P. M. Farns-
worth, Carrie S. Thomas, Isabel M. Sears
and Rebecca E. Little came forward, and
with a very pretty verse or two, crowned
her again with a wreath of magnificent
pink and white apple-blossoms. The

[Column 2]
Apostle-poet Orson F. Whitney,addressed
the lady in the most eloquent manner,
and in the choicest language, paying
homage to womanhood and especially to
the women of Zion.
	Apostle C. W. Penrose also eulogized
the lady in his own original happy man-
ner, and the affair was really a most en-
joyable event to all present. The menu
was of the choicest variety and daintily
served by the same committee of ladies.
Music and songs helped to enliven the
happy company. Sister Maggie Hull
favored the ladtes with some favorite old-
fashioned Scotch songs, in her peculiarly
expressive style with her rare rich
voice.
	It really seemed a perfect day through-
out without a shadow to mar the pleas-
ure of the guests. In after years those
younger sisters who participated on that
occasion will recall this party as a
momentous affair and remember this
magnificent gathering of beautiful women.
It was indeed a red letter day in woman’s
history.


[Column 1]
EARTHQUAKE AND FIRE.
	People all over the United States have
been terribly exercised and their tender-
est feelings drawn out in heartfelt sym-
pathy and compassion over the panic and
distress, caused by the destructive earth-
quake and devastating fire that followed
it in San Francisco and thereabouts—
along the Pacific Coast, on April 18th
ult., leaving such desolation in its track,
and causing such great loss of human life
and of valuable property, and most of all
terrible pain and suffering almost, and
really in many instances worse than
death itself. How the people who partic-
ipated in this horrible catastrophe en-
dured it and lived is wonderful; surely
the Lord has been merciful to help them
bear it; to us at a distance from the
scenes of horror it has been almost unen-
durable to contemplate. What must it
have been to those who were eye wit-
nesses or were in the immediate vicinity,
even though they escaped uninjured.
	To hear some of these people recount
even a little of the horrors that took
place near them is heartrending, and ac-
tion seems the only alternative; to render
some sort of assistance is a little allevia-
tion. Imagine seeing a great city laid
waste in a day; it is to be hoped the hor-
ror of these terrible sights may fade out
of the memory of those who were there
and could not escape seeing the pathetic,
tragic and often revolting scenes while
the fire was raging.
	To read of these catastrophes in ancient
times was always harrowing to one’s feel-
ings, and to be in the midst of it in the
present day is beyond what one can sense,
who is remote from the actual occurrence.
And yet it has transpired almost at our
own doors as it were, for San Francisco—
the gate of the Pacific ocean—seems so
near to us here that we feel it is at least
our neighbor.
	It has given the people an opportunity
to prove their benevolence, their pity,
their generosity and their genuine love
for humanity. Perhaps they needed this
terrible lesson, for this world has grown
cold and hard, we are told, and money-
getting has become a sort of mania, now
when men see a fortune amassed by years

[Column 2]
of struggling gone in an hour, lost irrevoc-
ably, it is an object lesson to the world,
and it is only men who have the greatest
courage to rise above the most adverse
conditions, that will attempt to retrieve
their fortunes so swiftly swept away.
	These great disturbances of nature are
appalling to the human mind, and as yet
the wisdom of men, with the knowledge
of science of the earth, has failed to ac-
count altogether, or at any rate foretell
when such events may come. Surely
this one came as “a thief in the night.”
	One lesson surely it will teach to “love
our neighbor” to the extent of imparting
of our substance to him in his need. The
hearts of the people have been touched
deeply, sympathetically, and the giving
has been most generous, bountiful even
and wfth good-will, and in the spirit of
love, such love as will eventually prevail
to bring all mankind up to a higher
standard.
	For a time it seemed other daily occu-
pations stood still and waited until the suf-
ferers could be cared for, and sending off
substantial relief was the order of the day
and hour.
	It was expected the report of the Re-
lief Society here would have been ready
by this time, but it is in the hands of a
competent committee who will prepare it
in good time. Several Stakes of Zion
have united in this, and it is really desir-
able to ascertain from all, whether in
Utah or adjoining states and territories.
Even if we do not wish to make it known
now, it is right that it should be made a
matter of record in the history of the
charitable work of this great organiza-
tion.
	The sisters who have been dilatory or
indifferent in regard to saving grain may
realize more the importance attached to 
the storing of grain by the women of 
Zion by this object lesson.


ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

“Of all the thoughts of God that are
Borne inward into souls afar,
Along the Psalmist’s music deep
Now tell me if that any is,
For gift or grace surpassing this, 
‘He giveth His beloved sleep.’ ”

	However long we may live we never
seem ready to part with our friends or 
relatives when the time comes for them
to go hence. It is strange that having 
passed through so many of the trying or-
deals we are nevertheless just as ill pre-
pared for the shock when it comes, as 
those younger people who know less of
these changes. We part for a few days
feeling sure we shall meet again, and the 
“dread monster” steps in unawares, as it 
were, and takes the near and dear, and 
we are powerless to avert the seeming
calamity. Then we must summon all our 
courage to go on with our accustomed 
duties. It is the only alternative noth-
ing else ever does so well. There is so
much more to be done now the loved
one has gone, who labored so diligently,
so valiantly; her unfinished work must be
taken up by another, and we must not
wear a sad countenance, for it is pleasing
to the Lord that we should be cheerful,
and so we go about our accustomed duties
and try to become resigned to the lonely
feeling that inevitably follows the loss of


[Column 1]
a dear friend or neighbor, a companion or
associate.
	In the passing away of Sister Elizabeth
J. Stevenson, the sisters in the Salt Lake
Temple, where she was called among the
first to labor, and in the General Relief
Society, realize they have lost one of
their best workers and a true friend.
	She was always willing to do double
duty when it was at all possible; no task
too hard, no burden too heavy, a friend
in need to those in want of assistance,
either temporal or spiritual. A comforter
to those who were cast down or op-
pressed, such a one must be greatly
missed by those who had received from
her kindly and loving ministrations.
“And friends, dear friends, when it shall be,
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, ‘Not a tear must o’er her fall!
He giveth His beloved sleep,’”
	It is the opinion of the writer that
could our beloved sister and friend, who
has left us, speak to us now, she would
say, “Do not weep for me but take up
the task I have laid down and be valiant
for the truth of the Gospel of our Lord
and Savior.”
	In some respects the demise of Sister
Stevenson was sadder than when one dies
at home. Going from her home on Mon-
day, April 18, to attend a conference at
Emery, Emery Co., for the Relief Society
(a work she greatly loved) she was taken
sick upon the journey; her illness was so
serious from the first that her traveling
companion, Sister Hattie B. Harker,
telephoned to the family on Saturday
night, and her daughter, Sister Wilcox,
started on the Sunday morning train to go
to her mother’s assistance; hearing by
telephone message on reaching Price (the
end of the railroad) that her mother was
worse, she sent to Salt Lake for her hus-
band, Dr. C. F. Wilcox, to come as soon
as possible. The doctor complied with
his wife’s request, and everything was
done for the sick woman that skill and
remedies could effect. Sister Stevenson
had great faith herself, and she was ad-
ministered to by the brethren of the
priesthood many times, but from the first
it seemed that pneumonia had fastened
upon her vital parts, and prayers and faith
although comforting and soothing, could
not avail, and she breathed her last in
mortality on the morning of Wednesday,
April 25, 1906, her daughter, Sister Wil-
cox, and son-in-law were by the bedside
and Sister Harker, who had been her as-
sociate in visiting Emery Stake, with
others of the sisters, were present to
render any assistance possible. Her last
words were, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	As soon as possible after the sad event
Elder Ezra Stevenson (Sister Stevenson’s
son in this city) was apprised of the sad
occurrence, and arrangements were made
to bring the body home. From Emery to
Price, sixty miles by team, required time,
and the journey under the circumstances
was mournful indeed. Sister Wilcox was
overwhelmed with grief, also Sister
Harker, who felt for her companion the
most intense sympathy in her great sor-
row.
	The mourners reached Salt Lake at
midnight, Thursday, April 26, and were
met at the depot by members of the fam-

[Column 2]
ily. Sister Stevenson was taken to her
own home in the 18th ward of this city.
The tender sympathy of the many
friends was expressed for the bereaved
ones, by loving words and messages, and
all that it was possible to do was done for
those who had suffered the irreparable
loss.
	The funeral services were held in the
18th ward Chapel, Sunday, April 29, at
12 m. Friends were permitted to call at
the home during the forenoon, and the
house was filled with brethren and sisters
coming and going for hours. Sister Stev-
enson looked lovely in her pure white
Temple clothes, like a beautiful bride
ready to meet her bridegroom.
	The floral offerings were exquisite and
tastefully arranged by loving friends, the
sisters of the Temple, the General Board
of the Relief Society and adjacent stake
associations, the Reapers’ Social and very
many who loved her, sent sweet and
fragrant floral tributes in recognition of
their friendship and sisterly devotion to
the deceased, with whom they had
labored in works of love.
	On the stand at the Chapel were Presi-
dent John R. Winder of the First Presi-
dency of the Church, Elders Rudger
Clawson, C. W. Penrose and O. F.
Whitney of the Apostles, Dr. Seymour
B. Young and J. Golden Kimball of the
Council of Seventy, President Richard
W. Young, Jos. S. Wells and John M.
Knight of the Ensign Stake, High Coun-
cilors and prominent brethren and sisters;
one side of the stand the seats were occu-
pied by the Temple workers, and the
other side the General Board of the Re-
lief Society; the hall was draped in white
and the white casket in front of the stand
was covered with the beautiful floral
emblems of innocence and purity.
	The Chapel was filled with relatives,
friends and acquaintances. The Bishop
of the ward, T. A. Clawson, conducted
the serviees, Professor C. J. Thomas,
with the Temple choir, took charge of
the music, which was very inspiring,
The Temple choir rendered the hymn,
“Do what is right.” Prayer was offered
by Elder J. G. Kimball; choir then sang
“Who are these arrayed in white.” The
first speaker was President Bathsheba W.
Smith, who presides over the sisters in
the Salt Lake Temple and is also the
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church in all the world. She paid
an affectionate tribute to the memory of
Sister Stevenson with whom she had been
so closely associated for many years.
President S. B. Young, the next speaker,
alluded particularly to Elder Edward
Stevenson, who had been a member of
the Council of Seventy and spoke of the
joyous meeting of this good woman with
her husband “beyond the veil.” Sister
Hattie B. Harker spoke of the severe ill-
ness and demise of Sister Stevenson, giv-
ing some of the details of the sad event.
Sister Ruth M. Fox followed, she had
known Sister Stevenson from her child-
hood, and alluded particularly to her
motherly qualities in a very sweet and
touching way.
	Brother Charles Pike rendered divinely
the grand old hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Bishop George H. Taylor of the 14th
ward, where Sister Stevenson had lived
for many years, addressed the congrega-
tion briefly, making many eulogistic com-

[Column 3]
ments on her life. President Martha H
Tingey of the Y. L M. I. A. spoke elo-
quently for a few minutes; she also had
always known Sister Stevenson. Elder
Orson F. Whitney then addressed the
congregation, speaking with great force
and power, paying a glowing tribute to
women, and especially mentioning the Re-
lief Society as the first great organization
of women founded anywhere in the
world, and by the Prophet Joseph him-
self; he then referred to the spread of
woman’s work and influence in the world
since that time. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells followed this eloquent discourse
and President John R. Winder spoke a
few minutes of the many noble qualities
and virtues of Sister Stevenson and em-
phasized her diligent service in the Tem-
ple. The choir sang “Shall we meet be-
yond the river.” Bishop George Romney
pronounced the benediction. The ser-
vices were very impressive and the Holy
Spirit seemed to pervade the house and
fill the hearts of all present, singers,
speakers and hearers. One could not
help feeling the divine influence, and
could Sister Stevenson have looked in
and heard and taken note of all, she
must have been gratified with the respect
and love manifest in all that was said and
done throughout the entire ceremonies.
	The journey is o’er, the fight is fought
		She has reached the home of her love,
	And the smile on her beautiful face is caught,
		From the land of smiles above.
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Sister Elizabeth Jane Stevenson was
born February 8, 1838, in Parish, St.
Aubens, Jersey, Channel Isles. Her par-
ents were Phillip and Mary Remon Du
Fresne. At the early age of twelve years
she was baptized into the Church of
Latter-day Saints by the late President
John Taylor; the home of her parents
was headquarters for “Mormon” mission-
aries until the family came to Utah in
1854. They crossed the Atlantic in a
sailing vessel and were six weeks upon
the ocean, landed in New Orleans and
crossed the plains with ox-teams the same
year, experiencing the many hardships
and privations of those early pilgrimages.
The journey to the valley was sadly mem-
orable on account of cholera, from which
fatal disease two of the sisters of Sister
Stevenson died and were buried by the
wayside.
	The year following, on November 28,
1805, Elizabeth Jane Du Fresne was
united in marriage to Elder Ezra Steven-
son, a man who spent most of his life in
the mission field Seven children were
born to them, of whom only two are now
living, Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Ezra T.
Stevenson. There are quite a number of
grandchildren to mourn her loss, for she
was particularly dear to them.
	Sister Stevenson was affectionately
cherished in the boson of her own family;
she was very loving and generous in her
nature. and not only to her own, but to
her large circle of friends whom she de-
lighted to entertain in the most hospitable
fashion. Her home was always a resting
place for those who needed a temporary
haven, and she made the Saints gladly


welcome with her affable manner, and 
kindly spirit.
	In the Relief Society of the 14th ward
she began her benevolent work as a
teacher, and for fifteen years visited reg-
ularly, then she filled the position of
Counselor to the President until her re-
moval to the 18th ward. Early in the
missionary work among the stakes of
Zion, Sister Stevenson began to visit
among the sisters with Sister Zina D. H.
Young, the President, and others; she has
traveled and attended sisters’ conferences 
in almost every stake of Zion and many
of the wards and missions, her labors have
been untiring in this department of Re-
lief Society work, and there is abundant
proof that her work has been appreci-
ated. When the Relief Society was in-
corporated in October, 1892, she was one
of the incorporaters and was present at
that important meeting and acted as 
secretary pro tem, was sometime after-
wards made a member of the Board of 
Directors. President M. Isabella Horne
chose her as one of her Counselors to fill
a vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Phebe W. Woodruff in the General Re-
trenchment Association, that always met
semi-monthly in the 14th ward, while 
Sister Horne was living; Sister Stevenson
often presided in the absence of the Pres-
ident. Sister Stevenson was a charter
member of the Reapers’ Club organized
in October, 1892, and was its Treasurer for
many years and at the time of her de-
cease. In all the various places she filled 
she was trustworthy, and interested, she
was punctual and strict in the performance
of duty, never known to shirk any task
however hard, or difficult. She was 
spiritual minded in a high degree and her 
religion was always first in every place; a
woman of sterling integrity to the Gospel
and willing to make any sacrifice, in
obedience to divine law or principle.
	Sister Stevenson will be remembered
for good works by the Saints here and
elsewhere, she visited her native home in 
1885-6, and traveled through parts of
England with her husband attending
meetings and speaking to many audiences
large and small on Gospel subjects, her
faith was always her theme on all occa-
sions public or private.
	She has left us now and surely her re-
ward will be eternal life in the mansions
of glory. She will be generally missed,
perhaps most of all among the sick and
afflicted. It may well be said of her
“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the 
needy.”
	“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
	Beccause we miss them from our onward
		road?
	God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
		Looked on us all, and loving her the most,
	Straightaway relieved her from life’s weary load,”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN.
“WHOM THE GODS LOVE DIE YOUNG.”

	The festive scene, the light, the gay,
		The tales of old forgotten long;
	The glimm’ring light that fades away,
		The notes that wail some dead love song.

	It’s the way of life that happiest moments flee
away, songs and laughter die upon the air, and
desolation falls upon the fairest scenes. Music
throbs out its life and life itself vanishes away.
	Such thoughts as these fill the mind when one
who is dear is suddenly called to another life. The

[Column 2]
last time we met rises vividly before us. Did we
part in kindness? Did we lovingly say “good
bye?”
	There is no regret when we think of Gladys and
her beautiful life. Gladys, who sleeps far away
from her childhood home.
	Gladys was the second child of Joseph and
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and was born in Salt
Lake City, March 13, 1865, and died February 26,
1906, in Juarez, Mexico.
	Her loving sister Evelyn ministered by her bed
side, and soothed her in her hours of pain. Her
heart yearned over her little ones, and wistfully
her eyes rested upon them, until they were closed
by the chill of death. For them she desired and
strove to live. Often she spoke of the fragile, little
mother far away and the precious ones whom she
would see no more in life.
	Gladys was of a bright, cheerful disposition, a
companion to and a lover of her mother. Kind
and true and even as a child. she was never known
to shirk a duty. She was affable and loving to a 
fault, always the same, light-hearted and happy.
These characteristics endeared her to family and
friends.
	The ties of motherhood unfolded her beautiful
nature, like the rose that expands beneath the
sun’s warm rays.
	A loving, conscientious wife, a tender mother, a
firm friend. this and more can be said of her
	To her faith her heart was loyal and true; to la-
bor for it, her delight.
	She held several positions of trust, even in her
girlhood days, in the organizations of the Twen-
tieth Ward, her home ward, where she is lovingly
remembered.
	She was of a literary turn of mind, and did
some fine work while with us in the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club. It is with regret that we part
with such an active, brilliant member.
	Her funeral, which occurred February 27, was
an occasion of sadness. Though the leading
brethren said so many beautiful things of her,
though all were loth to part with one so estimable,
faithful and diligent, and the home made desolate
because of her absence was spoken of, yet all 
hearts turned to the mother, whose health would
not permit that she should learn of her death until
long after she was laid in the tomb
	Amid silent tears of sorrow the following poem,
composed by that mother, to comfort some other
heart in distress, was read from the stand, then
sung by request:

	Resting now from care and sorrow,
		Resting from fatigue and pain;
	Faithfully she fought life’s battle,
		Death to such is endless gain.
	Gad hath gathered home her spirit,
		God hath taken what He gave;
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	All her warfare is accomplished,
		Bid her now a fond adieu;
	Brief the parting, glad the meeting
		That shall nearest ties renew.
	True and tender, self denying,
		One of Truths disciples brave—
	Let her sleep, she needs to slumber,
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	Shall we mourn for one who’s left us?
		Yes, our tears we needs must blend;
	Love’s own off’ring this we owe thee.
		Faithful mother, faithful friend.
	While we look for consolation
		Unto Him, “the strong to save,”
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	It was so appropriate, and seemed like her
mother’s voice blending with the words that had
been uttered.
	Gladys is not dead, but liveth unto life eternal.
With one of old we can exclaim “Surely good-
ness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: I will dwell in the house of the Lord for-
ever.”				LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
			HARRIET WILSON.
	My mother Sister Harriet Wilson, died March
23rd, 1906, aged 92 years. She was born July 7th
1813, at Fendon in Derbyshire, England. Em-
braced the gospel in the year 1847. Emigrated to
Utah in September 1871, residing in Salt Lake
City, keeping a store until 1878, when she came
to Sandy and lived here until her death.
	Soon after coming to Sandy she was chosen

[Column 2]
first counselor to Sister Wilhelmina Olsen and
for a number of years she filled that position until
about 7 years ago when she was honorably re-
leased on account of her extreme age. She was
a very energetic worker never tiring in her
labors.
	Her nature was angelic and especially to the
poor and afflicted and those that were cast down;
her religion was to her the dearest thing of her
life; she retained her bright and noble mind to
her death, declaring a few moments before she
died that she never had a doubt, but knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was sent of the Lord; her
memory was remarkable, also her eyesight, never
using spectacles; she was one of the most remark—
able of women; filled up her long life and won to
herself a crown that is promised to the faithful.
	In England she used to distribute tracts and
made some converts that have gathered here that
looked upon her with great reverence. She enter-
tained many times at her home President Joseph
F. Smith and many prominent leaders of the
Church, also many missionaries. They loved to
be in her company acknowledging she was of ster-
ling worth. She died as she had lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and her light will shine before
her children both in thime and eternity. God grant
her children may live as she has lived.
	A large concourse of people attended her
funeral which was held in the ward meetinghouse.
Brother Joseph E. Taylor of Salt Lake City,
preached her funeral sermon; also Bro. Walter
Williams who was well acquainted with her from
hoyhood giving glowing tributes to her life work.
Miss Judith Anderson of Salt Lake City sang
beautifully two numbers; the floral tributes were
grand.
				SARAH E. HARRISON.

		ELIZABETH BROOK FOX.
	Died at Franklin, Oneida County, Idaho, Mon-
day, April 9, 1906, of general debility and heart
failure, Sister Elizabeth Fox. Sister Fox was
baptized at Leeds in 1851, and finally with a deter-
mination to remain true to the testimony which she
had received, she sanctioned home and friends for
the gospel’s sake and came to this country, arriv-
ing in Salt Lake in September, 1861, Elder Milo
Andrus beign president of the company.
	After remaining at the home of Elder Phineas
Young for two weeks she went to Lehi, where she
married Charles E. Fox in February, 1862.
	In 1863 Brother and Sister Fox came to Frank-
lin. Both were members of the Franklin Ward
choir for a number of years.
	Sister Fox acted as a teacher in the Franklin
Relief Society for several years, afterwards be-
coming its president, which positon she filled for
eight years. On April 19, 1881, she was appoint-
ed president of the Relief Society of the Oneida
Stake, presiding with marked success for more
than sixteen years Her genial disposition won
for her the love of all with whom she was associ-
ated, which amounted almost to devotion.
	Besides a son and daughter, Mr. Joseph B.
Scarborough, of Franklin, and Mrs Annie Hatch,
wife of Bishop L. L. Hatch, of Franklin, Sister
Fox is survived by twenty grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas the Eternal Father, in His infinite wis-
dom has called our beloved sister, Elizabeth Fox,
from our midst; and
	Whereas Sister Fox has been closely connected
with the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake for a
number of years, and having been a teacher in the
Franklin Ward for seven years, also president of
that organization for about eight years, and later
Stake president for more than sixteen years.
	We, the stake officers, representing all the
branches of the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake;
desire to express our great appreciation of her in-
tegrity, and wish to extend our deepest sympathy
to the members of her family in their sad bereave-
ment.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sympathy to her son and daughter and their fami-
lies; be it further
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
the records of the Relief Society of this Stake, and
that a copy be presented to the bereaved family
and also to the Deseret News and WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT for p[-]blication.
					LOUISA B BENSON,
									President.
					HANNAH B. MICKLESON,
					LUCY B. PARKINSON,
									Counselors.
					PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL,
									Secrearty.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the Lynne
Ward, held March 29, 1906, the following resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted:
	Whereas our Heavenly and All-wise Father has
in his wisdom seen fit to remove from our midst
within the last year our beloved sisters, Mary E.
Hutchins, first counselor, Ellen Salisbury, teacher,
and Sarah Y. Thomas, secretary, who were noble,
righteous women and ever willing to assist in every
good cause; and
	Whereas their deeds of self-sacrifice and good
works will be greatly missed by all, therefore be it
	Resolved that in their death the Relief Society
of the Lynne Ward lose some of their most valiant
workers and dearest friends; and be it further
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy
to their loved ones in this hour of bereavement
and affliction, and that their memories be revered
as everything that is ennobling and uplifting, and
be a bright star for their loved ones to follow; and
also be it
	Resolved that the above resolutions be spread
on the minutes of the Relief Society and be pub-
lished in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and also a copy
to be sent to the family of the deceased.
				HANNAH OHLSEN,
				ANNA R. SHAW,
				ANNIE E. BOLANDER,
							Committee.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	Dear Editor:—As officers of the Relief 
Society of Utah Stake, we desire to ex-
press our appreciation of the great work
accomplished by our departed president,
Sister Mary John.
	For 21 years she presided over the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, which
before the division was one of the
largest in Zion, numbering 37 branches;
she was also for many years previous to
being president, secretary of the Relief
Society of the Third Ward of this city.
	The amount of work and prayerful
thought required to successfully superin-
tend so many branches is comprehended
only by those who understand fully the
Relief Society work.
	Those who sought counsel from Sister
John were enlightened and satisfied; for
she was humble and pure before God—
such a one as He uses for His Spirit to
flow through continually.
	Those called to mourn, the needy and
the cast down, were warmed, comforted
and cheered, for in her presence melan-
choly must flee as darkness disappears in
the presence of the sun.
	Having truth as her guide, and the
Spirit of God as her companion, all the
petty trials, sorrows and sufferings of life
faded away like temporary visions seen in
a dream.
	Since the All-wise Father has released
Sister John from her mission among us,
may we remember always her sweet
smile (an index to her soul) which never
failed to greet those with whom she came
in contact. And as the flowers and the
grain continue to grow through the night
from the warmth of the sun through the
day, so may the radiance of Sister John’s
faithful life continue to warm and pro-
mote the work she leaves behind.
	Provo, March 21, 1906.
			MARTHA F. KEELER,
							President.
			EMILY A. HOLBROOK,
			INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN,
							Counselors.
			MARY E. ASHWORTH,
							Cor. Secretary.


[Column 1]
	EXECUTIVE SESSION, NATIONAL
		COUNCIL OF WOMEN,
			TOLEDO, OHIO.
SECRETARY’S REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY, PRESENTED
BY REBECCA E. LITTLE, DELEGATE.
Madame President, Officers and Members
	of the National Council of Women
	of the United States.
	DEAR FRIENDS: A report from the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society was for-
warded in February of 1905 to the Trien-
nial at Washington, D. C. and the time
seems so short since then that there ap-
pears little to tell of things accomplished.
We can assure you, however, of the deep
interest we feel in the Council work, and
of our sympathy with individual workers
who are striving for the good of all, and
for the advancement of truth and right-
eousness.
	We know there is a vast army of wo-
men who are engaged in various depart-
ments of earnest endeavor to make better
the lives of those whose lines have not
been cast in pleasant places; and to these
grand women, we would extend the hand
of fellowship and wish them God speed
in every noble enterprise undertaken for
humanity.
	In looking back over the past year, al-
though we have kept up regular duties,
perhaps we ought not to regret that great
things we had desired have not been
brought about; for it is the little beautiful
acts of kindness, mercy and benevolence
that are after all, most helpful and uplift-
ing to the human soul, and in these small
things that do not count much upon paper,
our women do an infinite amount of good.
They minister in loving tenderness to the
sick and aged, who have not near and
dear ones by them, and when death comes
to the relief of suffering humanity, it is
the privilege of many to close the eyes
that can no longer see and clothe the body
in raiment suitable for burial; these are
the blessed opportunities of members of
our Society. No one can perform these
sacred duties without realizing the spirit
of that true charity spoken of by Paul the
Apostle, the “charity that never faileth,”
that blesses the giver ten fold in return.
Such labors refine and discipline the char-
acter and life of those who perform these 
ministrations in the spirit of true benevo-
lence.
	The ladies of the Council are many of
them somewhat acquainted with our
methods of work. We aim for the highest
and best in our undertakings, though we
often fall short of the standard we have
in mind.
	From our headquarters we send out to
the various organizations under the super-
vision of our General Board, not only let-
ters of instruction from our President, but
mlssionary sisters in pairs, to visit Con-
ferences in the several localities as care-
fully arranged beforehand. These sisters
not only speak publicly upon matters par-
taining to our work, but give advice to
those at a distance and assist in organiz-
ing new branches or in filling vacancies.
Often these trips are made where there
are no railroads and through mountainous
countries. This is really an important
part of our work, and very helpful to those
in remote places. For in these far off
districts away from busy towns, the work

[Column 2]
of caring for the sick and needy, the aged
and infirm is quite as necessary as in larger
places, and in many instances the needs
are greater because the facilities are not
at hand, or the skilled help to be obtained.
	We can truthfully say great good to
many thousands has been done by our
women through this organization, and we
are fully prepared to verify this assertion.
The classes of nurses that graduate each
year, is one of the most efficient ways of
helpfulness; and we are gratified with the
results of our Relief Society nurse classes
as a whole. Imagine what relief these
nurses carry into the homes where their
services are required, the very expression
and appearance of a trained nurse, who
loves her work, brings into a household
an atmosphere of repose and is a healing
balm to the sufferer. I think it has al-
ready been explained in a former report,
that the nurses trained under the auspices
of the Relief Society give a certain por-
tion of time to charity nursing; and this
gives to them an experience such as no
trained nurse who only attends where
families are able to pay can ever get, and
is more valuable as a life lesson, than
dollars and cents. These eharity nurses
going as they do into the homes of the
meek and lowly are, as it were, angels of
mercy in many instances, diffusing sun-
shine and radiance where darkness and
gloom had prevailed. Nursing is indeed
an elevating profession.
	Some years ago we introduced as a part
of our educational course what we term
mothers’ work into our Society; in a cer-
tain sense the training of young women
for motherhood had always been encour-
aged and much timely advice and instruc-
tion given in a general way, but we have
adopted of late years a more regular
method by having outlines prepared and
lectures in each ward Society on such sub-
jects as relate direct to the preparations
for motherhood and the rearing of chil-
dren. The good results have been appar-
ent in awakening dormant ideas and fac-
ulties, and inducing women who had latent
talent to use it for their own development
and to be helpful to others, their associ-
ates, their neighbors and friends, and for
the public good.
	The Relief Society has also much prac-
tical work to do, and calls into exercise
the executive ability of its members in 
accumulating means, and in handling, and
husbanding it resources. During this past
year many more buildings have been
erected in various wards and settlements
for Society purposes, and considerable
grain has been stored, and more granaries
have been built. This enterprise of stor-
ing grain is peculiar to the women of this
Society. Nowhere else in the world have
we ever heard of the women of any peo-
ple, or any Society, laying up grain against
a time of need, except in our organiza-
tions.
	It has been an interesting thing and a
labor that required some skill to manage.
There have been some losses, but in the
main the work has been successful. The
Jubilee year of the Church, of which the
Relief Society sisters are members, don-
ated two-thirds of the grain that had been
stored for the three years since the work
had been inaugurated for seed to the far-
mers, this was their offering to the poor,
and in some rare instances since in con-
sequence of losses in the wheat crop it
has been loaned out to good advantage,


[Column 1]
but never for speculation, and it is never
sold for money except when it is necess-
ary to dispose of old wheat and purchase
new. Many even of the small wards own
granaries that are filled with good wheat.
The women who serve in the Relief So-
ciety devote freely time and talents to the
amelioration of mankind, without expec-
tation of reward, save the reward of a
clear “conscience void of offence toward
God and all men.” It is a labor of love,
the consecration of all that they have and
are on the altar of their faith, to promote
good in the world, to make life happy for
their own, to build up genuine homes,
where peace and unity abide.
	Meantime, we believe in cultivating all
the graces of mind and body and in prom-
oting the highest in art, literature and
science, that the future of the generations
now living, and of those which are to
come, may be nearer perfection in attain-
ment than that of any race that has ever
inhabited this earth. That the earth it-
self may be cultivated, its waste places
made habitable and beautiful by the hands
of industry and the blessing of the Lord,
that the Western continent from North
to South and from East to West, and the
whole of this goodly land of America, may
be as free and desireable to dwell in as our
own glorious United States.
	In this good work women as well as
men, have been and are engaged and
none more so than our honored and be-
loved President of this Society, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, who has from her
early life been a woman of thrift and
enterprise, as well as economy. She is
therefore eminently qualified to stand at
the head and direct the efforts of these
hosts of workers, because she has passed
through the varied experiences of a long
and useful, as well as successful life. She
is in appearance a queenly woman, though
now nearing her 84th year, with all her
faculties in excellent preservation, and
her cheerful countenance and dignity of
manner betoken the innocence and purity
of the soul within.	
	We also wish to mention with tender-
ness in this report, the great loss to our
Society in the demise of one of our most
honored and revered sisters, the Treas-
urer of the General Society for 21 years,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, well known for-
merly to many of the leading women of
the Council, having been a delegate from
our Society in the Congress of Represent-
ative Women at the Columbian Expo-
sition in Chicago in 1893, and also par-
ticipating in its social entertainments.
Her address in the Art Palace attracted
much attention, when she related the
story of crossing the plains in 1847, and
the many peculiar circumstances of her
pioneer journeyings and experience.
	We desire to unite with the National
Council of Women in any Memorial Trib-
ute they may make to the memory of our
dearly beloved leader and General, Miss
Susan B. Anthony; and to express our
heartfelt love and veneration for her grand
and noble efforts for women everywhere

[Column 2]
throughout the world. We rejoice that
she lived so long and accomplished so
much for humanity; and we realize that
all our lives and the lives of all women
have been elevated to a higher standard
of excellence through her heroic exertions
and enterprise in behalf of her sex; and
we feel assured that the work she loved
so dearly and to which she consecrated
her life and talents will not slacken, but
that those whom she stimulated to these
high and holy purposes will strive to carry
it forward to its ultimate victory and tri-
umph.
	With greetings from the President and
officers of the National Woman’s Relief
Society.
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N. W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

		SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the San Juan stake was held 
at Bluff, April 28, 1906, Stake President
Mary N. Jones presiding. Most of the
wards had a representative present; all
gave encouraging reports and spoke of
their desires to keep up with the other
associations. A great many acts of char-
ity have been performed by the sisters
during the past winter, as our stake has
been visited with a great deal of sickness,
and some deaths. All have shown their
willingness to care for those in need and
distress. Each of the associations expect
to do all in their power during the coming
summer to lay aside means to purchase
grain in the fall.
	The stake presidency were present and
gave very timely advice to the sisters,
encouraged them to keep the spirit of
their work, and God would bless them in
their desires for good. Sister Priscilla
Warner, fiirst counselor to Stake Presi-
dent Mary N. Jones, was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful labors, as she had moved from the
stake.
	Sister Lucinda Redd was also released
from her position of stake secretary for
the same reason. Sisters Annie M. Deck-
er and Beatrice Nielson were chosen to
fill the vacancies.
	We hope to continue in the work of
the Lord, and look for success in our la-
bors as long as we are faithful.
		MARY N. JONES, President.


UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 38th Relief Society Con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion. held at
Vernal, Feb. 21, 1906, at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises President Col-
ton made opening remarks. She felt that


with a little energy there could be a little
better attendance; she reported the stake
with the exception of Jensen.
	Sister Annie K. Bartlett reported Jen-
sen Relief Society; both president and 
her counselors reported the stake in good
condition.
	After the stake reports an essay was
given from Naples Society by Adell Hunt-
ing; select music on the organ by Abbie
Henry from Vernal Relief Society.
	Reports from the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches as follows: Mountain Dell,
Prest. Mary J. Searle; Jensen, Prest.
America Orser; Naples, Prest. Annie Cas-
per, followed by Nancy A. Colton (one of
the stake board) upon knowledge and
courage, practically temperance. Sister
Mary O’Neill made a great many com-
ments on the lecture.
	Sister Sarah Pope, former stake presi-
dent of the organization, said while look-
ing over the congregation she felt to
thank the Lord, for, said she, all looked as
though they had plenty to eat and wear;
spoke of the early settlers in the state
and the hardships they had to pass
through, of the Relief Society and its
organization; she also spoke upon the
Word of Wisdom and its benefits.
	Counselor Agnes Bennion spoke of the
sisters trying to find employment for their
children and upon education and the
books we should read; she read an article
entitled “Questions of Amusements.”
	Bro. Alonzo Hawes said that he could
testify that the Spirit of God was here; he
spoke of the good counsel that might be
given to the boys and girls; spoke of the
good work the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety were doing.
	Sister Phebe Hislop, president of Mae-
ser Society, reported that society in good
condition; she also related some of the
effects of card playing; she had never had
a card in her house nor seen any in her
father’s house.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session we continued our
services by the choir singing then prayer
and singing, minutes, etc. General and
local officers were sustained, statistical
report read and accepted.
	Reports from the different wards. Pres-
ident Hannah Odekirk, Vernal; Prest.
Mary J. Hardy, Glines; each in good con-
dition. 
	Sister Althura Collett called unexpect-
edly to speak, but her motto was to re-
spond to the call from those placed
over her; spoke of prayer and home mis-
sionaries.
		(To be continued.)


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1905.						No. 1


CONTENTS.
Anniversary Celebration at Provo...............		1
Relief Society Seattle, Washington.............		2
In Memoriam............................................		2
MOTHER'S WORK:—Parowan Stake,.............	2
	St Johns' Stake..............................			2
Relief Society Reports................................		3
Relief Society Conference—Weber Stake......	4
Mary A. Livermore................................			8
EDITORIAL:—An Important Event..........		4
POETRY:—The Hill of Death, Louisa Lawson.	1
	Washingtons Birthday, Virginia Frazer
	Boyle..............................................		8


THE HILL OF DEATH.
BY LOUISA LAWSON.
No downward path to death we go,
Nor through dark shades, or valleys low,
But up and on o'er rises bright
Toward the dawn of endless light.

Not in the lowlands can we see
The path that was and is to be;
But on the height, just where the soul
Takes deeper breath to reach the goal.

There we can see the winding ways
That we have journeyed all our days;
Then turn and view with spirit still,
The gates afar beyond the hill.
The Dawn, Australian.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION AT
PROVO TABERNACLE.
THE ELECT LADY.
	We have met this afternoon to do
honor to one of God's noble women,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to
congratulate her on the anniversary of
her eighty-third birthday. And may she
live long to enjoy many more such oc-
casions surrounded by her many friends
and co-laborers in the work of the Relief
Society, it being the first organization
for the benefit of women and done by
the inspiration of Our Heavenly Father
through His chosen Seer and Prophet
Joseph Smith. We realize the responsi-
bility of this position is great at the pre-
sent time as the President of all the asso-
ciations, which now extend around the
world to every country where the Gospel
has been preached and branches of the
Church organized. We delight to honor
her in this position and continually up-
hold and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We also wish to honor her as
a wife and mother in Israel the duties in
which she has so faithfully performed of
being a true friend, a wise counselor to
her husband and his family a help meet
in very deed and may we follow her noble
example that we may all be worthy to
associate with her in the world to com[-].
PROVO, UTAH, MAY 1ST, 1905.
TO OUR DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:—
	This day I desire to celebrate with my

[Column 2]
sisters in Provo, with love and esteem,
the elect lady, our beloved and honored
Sister, Mrs. B. W. Smith, for your worth
and valor in the cause of the women
of the Relief Society and humanity at
large, I have known you nearly 40 years
true working, side by side with your hus-
band who was a tower in this church and
you are still working in the Temple to
further the work of God in the Earth.
There are 40 years since I have known you
	At your post as wife and friend,
Now you are advanced in years
	At a work that'll never end.
We have met today in Provo
	To celebrate your natal day,
And I wish you many blessings
	That the Lord can well display.
PRESIDENT, MARY JOHN.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:—
	May the Lord bless you with health
and strength the remainder of your life,
that you may continue to enjoy the same
sweet spirit and have the good influence
over your co-laborers that has always
made you dearly loved by all, is the wish
of the Lake View Relief Society.
DEAR PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH:
	We, of the 6th ward Relief Society,
Provo, do also honor you on this your
natal day, both for the position you oc-
cupy in one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God and also for the faith-
fulness, love and dignity with which,
though now past four score years and
more, you discharge the duties thereof.
	We do honor you as a pioneer in Relief
Society Labors and indeed in God's work
here on earth, and as helping to carry out
His plans for His children.
	Well do we know that the closing years
of life's day will be like the sunset which
follows a long warm bright summer's day,
rich with associations, mellow with happy
memories, glorious and beautiful with un-
adulterated faith and trust, and unshaken
testimony of the gospel.
	May God continue to bless and prolong
the life of one, who has given us such an
example of courageous, active, humble
and unselfish womanhood.
	What joy we find in following thy
womanly example. Pure religion and un-
defiled before God is this, "To visit the
fatherless and widows in their affliction
and to keep himself unspotted from the
world." Nobly do you live that pure re-
ligion.
SPRINGVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Blest indeed are the daughters of Zion
in having such a noble woman to lead us
as Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. She has
shown us how beautifully gentleness and
firmness harmonize. May she live long
and still be the inspiration to us in the
days to come that she has been in the
past, is the sincere desire of the members
of Timpanogos Relief Society.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:
	May you live as long as you desire life,
that we may hear your gentle voice in
words of exaltation and faithful testi-

[Column 3]
mony of the truthfulness of the Gospel
that we are called to labor in, is the ear-
nest desire of your sister in the Gospel.
PERSIA C. BUNNELL.
PLEASANT VIEW WARD, April 30, 1905.
You have passed through great trials
	In days of yore,
You've been tested and proved
	Faithful and true;
May your years yet number another score,
	Is the wish of the sisters of Pleasant View.
DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:
	You are the only living member of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Please impart to us humble toilers at the
sick bed, as well as with thimble, needle,
and thread, some of the inspiration and
encouragement received at the fountain
head from the lips of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
EMILY G. CLUFF.
DEAR SISTER SMITH:
	We have met in honor of thy natal
day to give thee loving greeting, to hold
in friendship's clasp thy hand, which has
for many years labored in the great
cause of charity, to look into thine eyes,
and see the light of faith which shineth
there, to listen to thy voice which ever
giveth words of hope and encourages us
to greater deeds of love.
	Thine hath it been the privilege to be-
hold the coming forth of the great latter-
day work; thou hast seen the Church of
God established upon His footstool nev-
er more to be thrown down; thou hast
partaken of its blessing and hath shared
in its sorrows.
	Thou wert present at the organization
of the Society which we represent, and
of those eighteen, thou alone art living.
Thou hast seen this work grow from that
humble beginning unto the greatest char-
itable organization in the world.
	In thy early maidenhood thou gavest
thy hand to one of God's anointed and
with him stood in high and holy places.
Thou wert unto him a true and faithful
wife, and he ever praised and honored
thee.
	Many were the privations which thou
endured, and sorrow sometimes fell upon
thee, and thy mother heart wast torn
with grief; but God comforted thee in
thine afflictions and caused thee to re-
joice that thy daughter was spared thee,
and in her and her children thou hast
been blessed.
	Thou hast ever been a laborer in the
field of life. In earlier days thine appa-
rel and that of thy family was the work
of thine own hands, and thou didst grace
thy humble home with patience, love and
womanly dignity.
	Thou hast labored long in God's holy
temple, and hath beheld the beauty and
glory of His great work.
	Thou art the president and leader of
the women of the Church of God, and
hath given unto us an example of all that
is truest and purest in womanhood. Thou
hath taught us in the ways of love and


charity, and hath encouraged us in all
that is best and noblest. 
Thy fourscore years and three hath
touched thee but lightly with the finger
of age. Time hath whitened thine hair
but not dimmed the lustre of thine eye, 
hath not deadened thine intellect nor
cowed thy spirit; but thy years are ripe
with the experience that brightens and
purifies. Thy days have been filled with
good deeds, and thou hast earned the
crown of glory which God hath promised
to the faithful.
MARY E. SHEPHERD ASHWORTH.
Provo, Fourth Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


RELIEF SOCIETY, SEATTLE, WASHING-
TON. 
Minutes of the organization of the Se-
attle Branch Relief Society, convened
May 2, 1905.
The meeting was held at the residence
of C. H. Fritsche, with C. H. Frtische
presiding.
Opening song, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a Prophet."
Prayer was offered by Elder E. W.
Johnson; continued by singing "Guide
us, O Thou great Jehovah."
Opening address by Brother C. H.
Fritsche.
Officers elected for the Society were as 
follows;
President—Sister Estella Milligan;
Counselors—Sisters Christine Peterson
and Agnes Fritsche; Secretary and Treas-
urer—Eva Kinder; Assistant Secretary
and Treasurer—Cora Hawley.
Remarks were made by the sisters and 
brothers concerning the Relief work.
Donations to the Society for the pur-
pose of buying books and other things
necessary amounted to $4.50.
A business meeting was held May 9, to
elect teachers and attend to other busi-
ness matters pertaining to the Society.
Meeting was brought to a close by
singing "How firm a foundation." Bene-
diction was pronounced by Elder J. J. 
Hendricks.
                   EVA KINDER, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM. 
Jane R. Bennett, who recently passed away, was 
born in Shottan, near Howarden, Flintshire, North 
Wales, June 22, 1824. She embraced the Gospel 
Dec. 1850, and came to Utah in 1863, with her 
faithful husband and her children. 
She was a woman of much faith and charity, be-
ing a left a widow for 35 years, she was in deep sym-
pathy with the widows and fatherless, had always 
a kind word to speak to all she met, and imparted 
her substance to those in need. She had indeed 
overcome the things of earth and her only desire 
for means was to help others 
She was called to the bedside of nearly all the 
sick, her gentle touch would soothe the aches 
and pains; her willingness to do good was one of 
her many virtues. Sister Bennett acted as coun-
selor to the president of the Relief Society in Hol-
den, Utah for 25 years, the office of which she held 
at the time of her death.  We so miss her in all 
our associations and gatherings, as her sweet face 
was always there to encourage us in well doing. 
Much could be said of the good Mother Bennett 
did, and the counsel and encouragement she gave, 
But we feel her mission was completed and the 
Father called her with the greeting, "Well done, 
my handmaiden, thy labor has been accepted. 
enter into my kingdom." 
Mother Bennett, how we miss her 
When grief and sorrow come our way,
Or when in need of her wise counsel 
To give us courage day by day.


She was ever near to bless us, 
Ever ready to impart 
Love and kindness, hope and courage, 
To the trouble, aching heart. 
But we feel she's with the ransomed, 
Worthy of a crown most rare, 
May we follow her example
That we some day may meet her there. 
NANCY M. ASHBY, Pres., 
EMILY MCKEE, Sec. 
Holden. 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
Whereas our Father in heaven in His infinite 
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of 
our esteemed sisters, Lilian Broberg, a beloved 
daughter of Sister Joanna Broberg, one of the effi-
cient officers of the 17th Ward Relief Society, and 
whereas in the demise of Sister Lilian the ward 
has lost a lovely young woman and a faithful 
Latter-day Saint, therefore be it. 
Resolved, that we the members of the 17th 
Ward Relief Society extend our heartfelt sympathy 
to the bereaved family in their hour of sorrow.
That we ever cherish the memory of our de-
ceased sister and regard her virtues as worthy of
emulation.
That a copy of these resolutions be presented 
to Brother and Sister Broberg and one be placed 
on the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society. 
FIDELIA JACOBS, Pres., 
L. Y. MERRILL, Sec.


MOTHER'S WORK. 
PAROWAN STAKE. 
Our Home. 
Lesson I. (a) The foundation of the 
Home. (b) Training and education of 
the boy and girl by the parents, prepara-
tory for further home building. (c)
Choice of companions and associations 
before marriage. (d) Marriage. (e) 
Marriage a divine law. (f) The right 
place to marry. 
Lesson II. (a) Unity and love in the 
home. (b) Reverence in the home. (c)
Confidence between husband and wife. 
Lesson III. (a) Order and system in 
the home. (b) Economy of time and 
means in the home. (c) Cleanliness and 
care of personal appearance in the home. 
Lesson IV. (a) Beautifying the home 
inside and out. (b) Adornment of dining 
room and table. (c) Acquire a taste and 
habit of making that which we possess in-
to useful ornamentation for the home. 
Suggestions from members how this 
can best be done. 
Lesson V. Inmates of the home. (a) 
Family organizaiton. (b) The father, his 
authority, position and rights. (c) The 
mother, her authority, position and
rights.

Lesson VI. (a) Forgiveness in the 
home. (b) Charity for each other's im-
perfections. (c) Self control.

Lesson VII. (a) Self denial. (b) Grief, 
consolation and hope. (c) Cheerfulness 
and kindness. 
Lesson VIII. (Hospitality. (c) Social 
duties. (c) Domestic amusements. 
Lesson IX. (a) Care and respect for 
the aged. (b) Sickness an opportunity 
for training children to love and useful-
ness. (c) Gratitude and appreciation. 
Lesson X. (a) Domestic manners.
(b) Provide our children with amuse-


ments. (b) Enjoy the society of your 
children as time passes. (d) Parents 
should share their children's amusements.
(e) Extend sympathy in childish troubles.)

Lesson XI. (a) Evils of backbiting to 
ourselves and our neighbors. (b) Bring 
wayward children to our homes and en-
courage them. (c) Parents in making 
promises to children should make their 
word as good as their bond.

Lesson XII. (a) Family devotion. (b)
Reverence for the Sabbath day by the 
family. (c) Reverence for the Priest-
hood in the family. 

Mamie O. Holleman.


ST. JOHNS STAKE. 

LECTURE 1. 
1. - Visiting the Sick.

Deeds of kindness, done in love, 
Diamonds are in settings rare;
In the realms of bliss above, 
These the gems the blessed wear. 

(a) Effect of cheerful company in the 
sick room. (b) Suitable offerings; re-
freshments; flowers, etc. 
No. 2—Assisting the Poor. 
"It is more blessed to give than to receive"
"Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor 
he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard;"
Prov. 21. 13.

(a) Providing labor. (b) Providing social 
pleasures for the poor, the widows and
orphans.

No. 3.—Reverence for the Aged. 
(a) Supplying their needs. (b) Light-
ening their labors. (c) Cheering their 
lives. 
"It is the secret sympathy, the silver link, the 
silken tie, which heart to heart and mind to mind, 
in body and in soul combined." 
No. 4.—Proper Care of the Dead. 
(a) Clothing. (b) Washing and dress-
ing body. (c) Properly laying away. 
No. 5.—Encouraging the Downcast. 
"Words of love from hearts sincere, 
In this world of care and woe, 
Are like springs in deserts drear. 
Giving life where'er they flow." 
(a) Showing the goodness of God. (b) 
Teach that "Hope is the gem of exist-
ence." 
No. 6—Intellectual Moral and Religious 
Culture of Women.
"We are saved no faster than we gain knowl-
edge, for knowledge is power." 
LECTURE II.
Marriages and its Advantages. 
"Domestic happiness, thou only bliss, 
Of Paradise that hath survived the fall." 
Ref. Gen. I: 27; Doc, and Cov. Sec. 
49: 15,16; Gen. 2; 18; I Cor. 11: 11, 
"Oh grant my prayers and let me go 
Thy toils to share, thy path to smooth, 
Is there a want, a wish, a woe 
Which wedded love can fail to soothe?"


(a) Choice of a companion.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God,
that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not and it shall be given him.-- Jas 1:5. 

"Love rules the court, the camp, the grove, 
And man below and saints above,
	For love is heaven and heaven is love."

	(b) Qualities a man should look for in a 
woman. "A prudent wife is from the 
Lord." Faith in God, religious nature,
love of children, industrious, virtuous,
economical and cleanly. (c) Qualities a 
woman should look for in a man. One 
who does not use liquor or tobacco in any
form. Industrious, truthful, moral, self-
reliant, kind disposition, unselfish and re-
ligious. (d) Superiority of Temple over
civil marriages. Ref. Doc. and Cov.,
Sec. 132: 15-22; Mark 10: 9.

	LECTURE III.
	Children, Their Desirability.
	Ref. Gen. 1:28. (a) The desire for 
children a God-given attribute to woman.
Ref. I Sam, Chap. I. (b) No true hap-
piness without children. (c) One of the 
greatest gifts of God to man - children.
Ref. Gen. 15:5; Gen. 48: 16. (d) Limit- 
ation and prevention of families contrary 
to the commandments of God, and a 
curse to mankind. Ref. Gen. 1: 27.

	LECTURE IV.
Hygiene in the Home.
"The household is the woman's realm
	Love's magic wand her sceptre;
	Husband's and children's love her throne,
	And duties well performed her crown."
	I. Personal cleanliness. (a) Of body,
the house of the spirit. (b) Bathing nec-
essary to health. (c) Influence of a clean 
body on the mind. "They who desire
clean thoughts, must first have clean 
bodies." 2. Cleanliness of the home. (a)
Proper care of closets. (b) Why keep soiled
clothing out of the house? (d) Care of 
floors and carpets. (e) Sweet dish clothes 
and clean dish towels. 3. Sleeping ap-
partments. (a) Why should we have an 
abundance of fresh air circulating through 
the house day and night? (b) Why is 
sunlight very necessary in bed-rooms? 
No. 4 Beds. (a) Airing of beds. (b)
Why should all vermin be kept out of
beds? (d) Why should quilts be light?

	LECTURE V. 
Hygienic Food. 
"In what thou eatest, seek from thence due
	nourishment, not gluttonous delight."
	I. Bread. What are the effects of gra-
ham, white, rye, yeast-powder, and soda 
bread  on the system? Which is prefer-
able? How best prepared? No. 2. Ce-
reals - best way to prepare whole-wheat,
crackers, wheat, rice, oatmeal, etc. No.
3. Meats. Word of Wisdom. Ref. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 89. Beef, mutton, pork,
poultry and fish. Give best way of prep-
aration to be most wholesome and nutri-
tious. No. 4. Vegetables- value as food.
Effects of eating between meals. Effects
of pastry. No. 5. Fruits- why essential 
to health? No. 6. Substitutes for meat,
beans, peas. Explain their value as food. 
</div><div>LECTURE VI. 
Reverence.
	I. Reverence for places of worship. (a)
Greeting. (b) Whispering. (c) Laugh-
ter. (d) Eating. (e) Throwing things on 
floor, such as paper, flowers, nut shells,
fruit peelings, etc. No 2. Cleanliness of 
house. (a) floors. (b) Windows. (c) 
Curtains. (d) Seats. (e) Leaving room.
(f) Children running about room. No.
3. Sacrament. (a) Care of dishes. (b)
Color of table clothes. (c) Care of table 
cloth. (d) Sacrament cup should only be 
used for sacrament. 
E. L. S. UDALL, Pres.,
	DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
		R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 35th conference of the Re-
lief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion, held
at Naples Ward, May 30, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of the
labors of teachers in the Relief Society
and the responsibilities that rest upon
them; also of evil speaking one toward
the other, and of honoring the Priesthood.
She referred to the young, especially the
young men that are sent on missions,
that they should be taught to trust in the
Lord, and urged the parents not to neg-
lect their children in sending them to
Sunday School, Religion Class and Prim-
ary, and in teaching them to pay their
tithes and offerings and to observe the
Sabbath day.
	Sister Hattie Harker felt thankful in
having such a beautiful place to meet in.
Spoke of the duties of the sisters in con-
nection with the brethren. Referred to
the example of the Savior, thought we
should guard the morals of our young
people and be guarded against all evil
surroundings; gave instructions to the
secretaries in their duties.
	The choir sang. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Patriarch
Nelson Merkley.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding.
	An essay on "Neglect of Duty" by May
Bartlett, was given. Sister Mary J. Har-
der reported Glines Ward and Sister
America Orser, Jensen Ward, both these
wards are doing good work. Mountain
Dell ward not reported.
	President Bennion, Sister Annie K.
Bartlett, Sister Hattie Harker, Sister
Emma Woodruff, all spoke words of en-
couragement to all present. President
Colton made a few closing remarks and
thanked all for the services they had ren-
dered.
	The next conference will be held at
Jensen. Singing. Conference adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Coun-
selor R. S. Collett.
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec'y.
		LIBERTY STAXE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion convened June 8, 1905. In the Sec-
ond Ward meeting house, President An-
nie S. Musser presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "We thank
thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Mary Mair, followed by a solo by

[Column 2]
Sister Eva James. Roll called, each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence read and accepted, also the statisti-
cal and financial report for the year 1904.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and spoke a few words of encourage-
ment. Favorable reports were given by
Presidents Squires, Anderson, Maycock,
and Chamberlain, of the First, Second,
Third, and Eighth wards respectively.
	Miss Shipp rendered the solo, "The
Lord is my light."
	President Musser introduced Sisters
Emma Carter, Elizabeth Higgingbotham
and Martha Nowlan, who had been ap-
pointed as stake missionaries; each ex-
pressed her desire to perform the duties
required of her, and keep the command-
ments of God.
	Counselor Z. V. Eardley said a few
words, felt that it was truly good to be a
Saint, and that there was work for all to
do.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing
"Our God, we raise to Thee," etc.
	Benediction by Sister Grace Anderson.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock.—Com-
menced by singing "O say what is truth,"
etc. Prayer by Counselor Philip S. May-
cock. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of the afternoon session of the
December conference was read and ac-
cepted. Counselor Eardley presented
the names of the General Board, also
names of the Stake Board, and all were
unanimously sustained.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said
she was the only one remaining who was
present at the organization of the Relief
Society; related many incidents in the
early history of the Church, and expressed
her great pleasure in assisting the poor.
Counselor Hyde spoke of the great and
good work performed in the temple for
the redemption of the dead.
	Sister Hull favored us with the solo en-
titled "Resignation."
	Sister Jennings spoke of the progres-
sion of the Savior, saying He had set the
example, and for us to follow in His foot-
steps and continue in the good work.
Asked the mothers to keep a watchful eye
on the daughters of Zion, organize class-
es to instruct and entertain them, shield
them from outside influence, also to in-
struct them in the domestic side of life.
	President Musser desired that the sis-
ters of the Relief Society devote one day
a month to temple work for the poor.
	President Hugh J. Cannon felt that the
Relief Society had a great work to per-
form; would render us assistance and en-
couraged us to do all the good we could.
	Counselor Philip S. Maycock said our
work should make us all pure, noble,
charitable, and everything that is lovely;
we should all follow in the footsteps of the
Savior.
	Counselor Arnold H. Schulthess felt
well repaid for attending our conference;
assured us our work was fully appreciated;
thought we should strive to add continu-
ally to our good works.
	Sister Hull favored us with another
beautiful solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for six months by singing
the Doxology.
	Benediction by Counselor A. H. Schul-
thess.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

				Woman's Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake C ty, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1905


[Column 1]
	AN IMPORTANT EVENT.
	This number of the paper commences
the thirty-fourth volume of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT;—just thirty-three years June
first of this year since this little messen-
ger made its advent into the world of liter-
ature, a newly-fledged offering to the
women of the Rocky Mountain region,
and a surprise to many here, yet a most
welcome token of woman's enlighten-
ment and uplifting.
	In February, 1870, the women of Utah
had the privilege of equal suffrage given
to them, and it seemed necessary that
they should have an organ of communi-
cation from one to another to express the
fulness of joy that comes with great
privileges and opportunities. There are
still, however, many among the people
of the outside world who think Mormon
women have no method by which they
express their true feelings, and are igno-
rant on all the great questions of the day
upon which other women are so well in-
formed. It would be amusing, if it were
not such a serious matter, to hear how
women of the world speak of Mormon
women, who, if they were not so blinded
by prejudice,  they could scarcely help
knowing, that every avenue is open to
the women of the Mormon Church to
advance along every and all lines of
s[-]udy and research, and of active occupa-
tions quite as much so as in the world
outside; our people travel hither and
thither, and are in constant communica-
tion by means of railroad traffic, steam,
etc., telegraph and telephone, with
cities and countries, near and afar off.
	There are probably as many books sold
in Utah and adjacent states and territo-
ries among Mormon people as those of
other churches, and even as of other
states where fewer Mormons dwell. The
Mormon women are decidedly progres-
sive, actively so in the strict sense of the
word. When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was first issued there were only two wo-
men's papers in the West and very few in
the East, the Woman's Journal of Bos-
ton, founded by Lucy Stone, is now in its
thirty-sixth year. It is the only one of
its kind in the East that has survived so
long, of the few that have been started
since, and it has gone through some very
hard struggles. The New North-West, pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was started in
1869 but has been discontinued for some
years. The Golden Dawn, in San Fran-
cisco, begun about the same time as our
little paper, only lived a few years.

[Column 2]
	Since the EXPONENT came into exist-
ence there has been one or two wo-
man's papers started in Denver, but they
only lived a brief period, we are sorry to
say. The Woman's Tribune, founded in
Washington, D. C., has struggled along
quite a number of years, and now Mrs.
Colby, the editor and proprietor, has
moved it to Portland, Oregon.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was the first
paper of its kind in the Rocky Mountain
region, a fact of which our people should
be justly proud, and the sisters should
make an effort to maintain it in a way
appropriate to the great body of women
it represents.
	In the beginning of this new volume
there should be an increased interest in
making it more than ever before, the re-
pository of precious gems of history and
events in the lives and deeds of the wo-
men who have made, and are making
history every day. To do this it is essen-
tial, as in every other enterprise, to have
means, and to  be prompt in payments is
always the best method of making any
business a success.
	One sister, whose letter came today,
calls the EXPONENT  a "precious gem;"
she says, "I can hardly keep house with-
out it." If many others felt as she does,
there would be a great change in its ac-
tual appearance and value. Let us hope
for this material benefit through a larg-
er subscription list and a greater inter-
est in its increase of numbers through
the efforts of the Relief Society of-
ficers, as well as the agents, and to
those who have talent to write we wish
to say, cultivate that gift, that you may
use it for the good of hundreds who
may read your articles, and also that you
may help produce a class of reading that
the Latter-day may with safety
and profit put into the hands of the pub-
lic, that will represent them truthfully.
We as a people, and as women, ought to
write better than other people, and not
to be satisfied to do inferior work. To be
sure, we now and then have something
very creditable, but we are not doing the
sort of literary work, that is, our
young women are not quite up to the
high standard in this respect that has
really been expected of them.
	In the past we have talked a great
deal about the material that the lives
and experiences of the Saints would af-
ford to writers, and now it seems these
abundant facts and ideals should be em-
bodied in poems, essays and stories, that
would reflect lustre upon such incidents
as we know could be made memorable
in history. Bishop Whitney has in his
Epic, "Elias," given something so sub-
limely grand to Mormon literature that
it will go down the ages as a masterpiece,
and surely there are others who have
high ideals of poetry and song, and
though they may not equal his excellence
either in verse or history, that is no rea-
son they should not make the effort to
write, and do good, even excellent work.


Miss Mary L. Galpin has been selected
by the Los Angeles (Cal.)  Chamber of
Commerce to represent it at the Lewis
and Clark Exposition at Portland. She
will have charge of the exhibit, and will
give talks on Los Angeles and explain the
country and climate and the advantages
it offers to visitors and settlers.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

			WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion, held at the Relief Society Hall
Ogden, the 6th day of June, 1905.
	Conference convened at ten o'clock a.
m., President Jane S. Richards presiding.
Singing: "Let Us Pray, Gladly Pray."
Prayer by Bishop Robert McQuarrie.
Singing: "We Thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet." Minutes of the March Con-
ference were read and approved. Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards addressed the Con-
ference, and made a few opening remarks,
and wished that we had more room, as
the attendance was so large. Sister
Richards explained that the reason why
the Conference was held at this time in-
stead of on Thursday, June 8th (the usual
time) was because President Joseph F.
Smith had been invited to attend the
Conference and could not be present at
any other time than today. A letter from
President Smith, accepting the invitation
to attend this Conference, was read.
	Brother P. G. Taylor addressed the
Conference; felt thankful to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion; felt it an honor to
meet with the Latter-day Saints; had
been associated with the Relief Society
of the Weber Stake for many years, and
loved all, and his heart went out to all;
spoke of his long acquaintance with and
friendship for Sister Richards, and of the
many years spent by her in the Relief
Society cause; said it was the duty of the
members of the Relief Society to support
her in her position; mentioned his early
membership in the Church, and his ac-
quaintance with the Prophet Joseph, and
closed his remarks by bearing a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many present; spoke about the Nickel
Fund, and wished this to be kept up, as
the Relief Society is in need of funds with
which to purchase chairs; referred to the
incidents mentioned by Brother P. G.
Taylor, bore testimony to the truth of his
remarks, and said she would like to have
the brethren attend the ward meetings of
the Relief Society as well as the Con-
ferences.
	Counselor Harriet C. Brown was pleased
to see so many brethren present; was
thankful to be able to be present herself
and to see Sister Richards with us, and
said Counselor Shurtliff would not be
able to be present to-day, and closed her
remarks by thanking the Lord for His
many blessings to her.
	Sister Richards introduced Brother
John W. Rigdon, a son of Sidney Rigdon,
who addressed the Conference; he said
he was a late member of the Church,
having joined only last October, but had
had a knowledge of this Church since
the beginning; he related his early life
with the Church, and also related a con-
versation with his father as to the divine
authenticity of the Book of Mormon, and
his father's testimony in regard to the
same, stating that his father's enemies
had made the charge that the Book of
Mormon had been written by him; and
his father declared to him that he had
never seen the book until it was delivered
to him by Parley P. Pratt and two others.


[Column 1]
This conversation occured at a time
when his father did not expect to live
long, and shortly before his death and in
the presence of his wife and daughter;
said that he had been baptized when nine
years of age, but had not been confirmed
a member of the Church at that time,
and consequently did not become a
member until he recently joined the
Church; said he would be 75 years of age
within a few days, and he wished to pass
the remainder of his days as a member of
the Church.
	Sister Adaline Belnap, of Hooper, was
pleased to bear her testimony; said she
was baptized in Nauvoo, and knew
Brother John W. Rigdon there, and pray-
ed that he would remain faithful to the
end; spoke of the early days of the
Church and of the trials of those days,
and of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph, and prayed that we would all be
faithful to the end.
	President C. F. Middleton was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference
capacity, and was pleased to hear the
testimony of Brother John W. Rigdon;
said his remarks had reminded him of a
great many incidents in his own life that
had happened during the time of the raid
on the Saints in the city where he lived;
said he had been in the Church all his
life, and was thankful to have had that
privilege; related early incidents of the
Church, and bore a faithful testimony;
spoke of the great blessing that the Re-
lief Society is to the bishops; spoke of
how the Lord had blessed Sister Richards
in her position, and of the great good she
had accomplished; said he knew her
noble husband and honored his name, and
also honored all noble men and women;
he knew Joseph Smith to be a prophet of
God, and also knew that our present
President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet
of God, and said that we should uphold
and sustain him in his position, and ex-
horted all to sustain the leaders of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Brother Sanford Bingham was pleased
to have heard the testimonies borne, and
was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel; was glad to see
so many present, and was acquainted
with Brother John W. Rigdon in the
early days, and closed his remarks by
asking the Lord to bless all.
	Brother Walter W. Crane stated that
he believed the testimonies which he had
heard, and said he knew the Gospel to be
true; had known all the presidents of the
Church except the Prophet Joseph; had
faith and confidence in our President to-
day, and had faith that he would lead this
people aright.
	Sister Josephine Farr bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
was thankful to have had parents who
had taught her these things, and prayed
to be faithful to the end.
	Sister Ruthinda Moench, of Logan, ad-
dressed the Conference; was grateful to
be able to meet with her old friends, ac-
quaintances and workers in the Relief
Society; she rejoiced in the Gospel, and
felt well to see that Sister Richards and
others were able to do their duty; spoke
of a dream which she had heard related,
and closed her remarks by asking the
blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Lucretia Farr was thankful to

[Column 2]
have heard the good instructions that had
been given; was thankful for the en-
couragement received, and felt like con-
tinuing on in the work; reported the
Third Ward of Ogden as being in a good
condition, and asked the Lord to bless
all.
	At this time President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostle John Henry Smith, Brother C.
C. Richards, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Josephine R. West, Emily S. Richards,
Emmeline B. Wells, Edna F. Smith,
Sister Dusenberry and others entered the
building, the audience singing in the
meantime "Our God, we raise to Thee."
	Sister Richards said that we had the
pleasure of having President Joseph F.
Smith and others with us, the party hav-
ing just arrived, and she thought that, al-
though it was nearly noon, the people
would be glad to hear a few words from
President Smith.
	President Smith's remarks will appear
in the July number.
	Sister Richards: This is Sister Bath-
sheba Smith, President over the Relief
Society in all the world and as I thought
there might be some one of you who
could not be here this afternoon, I wish
her to say a few words.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith: "She knew
very well that I wouldn't speak very long;
I am not in the habit of it. But I greet
you with a happy greeting, and I am real
pleased to meet with you. I know you
are good and faithful and true. Sister
Richards has watched over you so long
that I know you are good, and I feel to
bless you, and to ask the Lord to bless
you, and give you wisdom, knowledge
and understanding, and give you faith in
the Gospel and in each other, and may
you be united in all the things you under-
take to do, and the Lord will bless you
and prosper you in your labors, and give
you faith for the sick and the afflicted and
give you means for the poor and the
needy, that you may fill up your days in
righteousness and in doing good--all these
presidents and their assistants in the Re-
lief Society in this stake. I pray the Lord
to bless you, and give you great wisdom,
and knowledge to carry on your work in
an acceptable manner before the Lord.
May every blessing which your hearts de-
sire in righteousness be yours. I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Singing: "Guide Us, O Thou Great
Jehovah." Benediction by Brother Robert
Gale. Recess was then taken until the
afternoon.
	At 1:40 o'clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding.
	Singing, "High on the moantain tops."
	Prayer.
	Singing, "Come, O Thou King of
kings."
	Sister Richards: My dear sisters, I am
very glad to think that we have those
with us this afternoon to speak to you
that we have: President Smith and John
Henry and some others, and Sister Smith,
Sister Wells and Sister Dusenberry. We
don't have them every time, and I hope
that the congregation will keep as kind of
quiet as you can in your crowded condi-
tion. I am kind of sorry that there isn't
a little bit more room, seeing there are so
many of us, and the babies are so good
that I believe they will all go to sleep,
and I don't believe they will cry--I am
not going to think so, anyhow--and I

[Column 3]
think we will have a nice afternoon. We
will now hear from Sister Dusenberry.
	Sister Dusenberry:--I feel a little bit
out of place, because I know that you
have assembled to hear President Smith,
and Apostle John Henry Smith and our
Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Wells, and I
feel that they have so many more years
of experience than I have, and that
they can instruct you, and say so many
better things than I can say, that it
is almost too bad to take up your time.
However, I shall not speak but just a
few moments. I want to congratulate
you this afternoon on the beautiful hall
you have, and as I sat here a few moments
this morning I thought to myself, how
many opportunities we sisters have. and
the brothers also, but especially the sis-
ters, and especially those who are partic-
ularly interested in the Relief Society. I
remember just a little while ago there
was a lady, one of the sisters, came to
me, and she said, "I have been called
out so many times," she said, "I am al-
most worn out. I have been sitting up
with an old lady who has been very ill
for some time," and she had been up
with her for some time, and the lady had
just passed away, and there was a great
many things to do; and she said, "I am
so tired," and I said, "Yes, you are; but,"
I said, "you must also realize that you
have just passed through one of the op-
portunities of your life, because, no mat-
ter what you did for that sister--no mat-
ter how kind you were to her--no matter
how many hours you might have sacri-
ficed of your time for her, you were de-
veloping at the time that you were doing
it, and she was doing far more for you
than you could ever hope to do for her."
As I look in the faces of the Relief Soci-
ety sisters I can always see that certain
humility, that cetain sisterly love, that
always makes me feel good; and I can
always see that each sister was dictated
constantly by her conscience, and con-
science is nothing more nor less than the
Sprit of the Lord prompting us at all
times to do the right thing.
	It was only just this morning that I
picked up a little paper, and in this paper
there was a little story of a father who
had had some dispute over some land,
and the other man who claimed the land
had planted it in vegetables and things,
and the man said, "Well, if I can't get
the land, I am going to have that that
grows on it." So when the harvest was
ready, he took his boy there, and he said,
"I will climb the fence and look all
around," and he said, "If I don't see any-
one looking, you come in, and we will
take what is in the garden." The father
got in there, and he looked in front of
him, and to the right of him and to the
left of him, and all around, and he turned
to the boy and he says, "There is no one
looking. And the boy looked to his 
father, and he said. "Father, you have 
forgotten to look up." It was the con-
science of the boy that was speaking; it
was the Spirit of the Lord that was
speaking to the boy, and I thought to
myself, "Therein lies an example for us
all." No matter what little wrong thing
we attempt to do, if we can always keep
in our minds and in our hearts the spirit
of looking up, always looking up. I am
sure if we can follow this we will always
be on the right track.
	As I end, there is a little quotation


[Column 1]
comes to my mind, which has helped me
in my life, and I think it will help you,
and it is a little quotation from Shakes-
peare, wherein he says, “Above all, to
thine own self be true; and it must follow
as the night does the day that thou canst
not then be false to any man.”
	I hope and pray that the Lord will
bless you all, that you may work togeth-
er in harmony, and support your leader,
and the leaders of the Church, and Aunt
Bathsheba—for she needs your support
and your prayers constantly. She prays
for you, she is constantly thinking and
working for you, and I think you are doing
the same for her. May God bless you.
Amen.
	Apostle John Henry Smith: My dear
sisters, I regret that I did not have the
privilege of hearing all of the remarks
that were made this forenoon by the
brethren and sisters who have spoken to
you. It would have given us some ideas
as to the spirit, in a greater degree, at
least, that exists in your meeting in ful-
fillment of the great duties and responsi-
bilities that rest upon you. I scarcely
anticipated this privilege this morning at
half past seven o’clock, but I am pleased
to be here, and was pleased to hear the
remarks that were made by President
Smith this morning, and your president,
and their words of commendation, and in
the remarks that have been made by Sis-
ter Smoot—or Sister Dusenberry, rather,
—in addressing you for a few moments
this afternoon.
	I know of no body of people in this
world to whom greater praise is due than
the ladies who form the Relief Society
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. The membership of that or-
ganization is made up of ladies whose
hearts have been given to the service of
the Master. It is true in all parts of the
world that the ladies are the better ele-
ment of society. The churches of the
world would soon be closed if the relig-
ious sentiment and feeling of the ladies
should abate, and they stop going to
church for about three months. But
among our sisters in all the world there
are none whose opportunities have been
so great, as have the opportunities of the
sistership of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. I am not here to
say that you are absolutely better than
your sisters among other peoples and
other religious denominations; but I am
here to say that no more heroic body of
women have ever breathed the breath of
life, than the ladies who compose the
membership of this organization that our
Father has established in these latter-
days. When we think of the conditions
that have been attendant upon your lives,
gathering as your have done from many
lands and from many climes, many of you
reared under different circumstances with
peculiar religious training, your accept-
ance of the truth of the latter-day work,
your being brought together from the
ends of the earth and instructed and
molded under the direction of the proph-
ets of this latter-day dispensation, and
the heroism that has been shown in your
lives, in the fulfillment of the duties and
responsibilities that have fallen to your
lot, commends you to every thinking man
and woman who has noted your labors,
and who has noted in any degreee the good
that has been accomplished by the sacri-
fices (if we can call them sacrifices) that

[Column 2]
you have undergone in the fulfillment of
the destiny that our Father has marked
out for His children in this day. Scarce-
ly a home among the Latter-day Saints
but what has had its bread winner taken
from there and sent into the world to
preach the Gospel, and mother has been
left with her little family to make her way
as best she could, providing for their nec-
essities. and aiding her companion in the 
fnlfillment of the obligation that he
was sent to discharge in the world. Our
sympathies sometimes have gone out in
large degree to the Elders in their fields
preaching the Gospel, but the Elders in
fulfillment of their ministry, in great
measure have passed through most pleas-
urable scenes, in the changing sights, in
the variety of circumstances that have
surrounded them, and in the considera-
tion they have received; while a stalwart
and true wife at the fireside at home,
offering her prayers in his interest, divid-
ing the results of her handiwork with
him, in seeking to provide him some
clothes and a little means to help him up-
on his way, and in the guardianship of her
offspring, and in the effort to impress up-
on their minds the dignity of the work in
which their father was engaged; the na-
ture of the obligation that rested upon
her, with him in seeing to it that, having
been warned of the re-establishment of
the Gospel it become their sacred duty to
warn their kinspeople, their brothers and
their sisters, and their old-time neighbors
and friends perchance, or to any of our
Father's children to whom the glad tid-
ings of great joy had not yet been carried.
When we remember these conditions,
and go into these homes, and when we
meet with you and mingle with you upon
occasions of this character, and remem-
ber the nature of the work that has fallen
to your lot, it may be well said of you, as
it has been said by many a husband
speaking of his wife, or speaking of his
neighbor's wife, or speaking of the friends
and sisters of a district in which he lived,
there are none better; there are none
nobler; there are none truer, molded in
the likeness and image of Mother Eve,
than the homes over which these wives
have presided, whose hearts were given
to their Maker, who have been devoted to
the accomplishment of the divine pur-
poses, the uplifting of their own children
and implanting within them laudable and
proper ambitions and caring in the midst 
of these efforts for those unfortunate ones
that are found in every community, who
need the sisterly and motherly care of
some devoted friend in the midst of their
distresses. 
	Standing before over three thousand
people in the city of El Paso last fall, it
was my privivilege to speak to that body
of people, coming from every part of the
country, and my brethren, some of them;
and upon that occasion I remarked to
those people that no more heroic people
ever breathed the breath of life than the
wives and mothers of the Latter-day
Saints; true in every place; earnest, de-
voted, unyielding, fixed in the establish-
ment of their faith; they had stood by
their homes and protected and preserved
them while their helpmates were away in
the world declaring the principles of the
Gospel, seeking to extend that truth
which was dear to them all.
	I believe this is absolutely true. While
I would not flatter you, or be guilty of

[Column 3]
offering you flattering words, I believe
these are the words of truth; that when
the history of this world shall be written
and the history of mankind shall be put
upon the sacred page upon which the fu-
ture races may look, that the efforts that
have been made in the interests of the
extension of the principles of this latter-
day Gospel, showing the position occu-
pied by our ladies, will be one of the
brightest and best upon the sacred pages
of history. How few, when we think of
it, wben we think of the conditions that
have surrounded them, have failed in the 
fulfillment of that mission! I need not go
away to any other home than to my own
home to bring up in pleasing remem-
brance the conditions of the past, for in
our home we were orphans, so far as
fathers were concerned,, in large degree,
the father ever absent, ever the public
servant, ever in the discharge of a pub-
lic duty: but around the fireside of those
homes were mothers, brave, true, heroic
no mark of infamy has ever attached to
one of their sacred names; but in the
fulfillment of the part that they had ac-
cepted, ministering in the interest and
well-being of the households to which
they belonged, they have remained in
the fulfillment, true and devoted in the
enjoyment of the duties that were im-
posed upon them. And while I speak
thus of my own home and its experienc-
es, as I look around upon the experiences
of others, and know the positions in which
the families of so many were placed, the
trying circumstances that surrounded
them, the efforts so noble and so true
that were made to aid their fellows, to
share their scanty meals, to share their
scanty clothes, to share the light amount
of fuel that was brought into the home,
to help that home so that there should be
no suffering, and that none should receive
hurt, but that all should be blessed and
 comforted, and that these meagre sup-
plies should be eked out to accomplish
the best possible results to all concerned.
How good the Master has been to us!
How good he has been to these heroic
women, these mothers. In the midst of
their trying situations and limited supplies
they made the best efforts possible that
their children should be men and wom-
en of the better mold, loving their
country, but above all loving their God,
and the propositions involved in the
sacred message that He had entrusted to
His servant in the day and age in which
we live. True to husbands? Yes. True
to wives? Yes. True to children? Yes.
True to the unfortunate and feeble? Yes.
True to those men that have been sel-
ected, and the women also who have
been selected to administer in the dis-
charge of the obligations of counselors
and advisers. True to the ones who are
upon the picket lines of the world, de-
claring the message of glad tidings to the
children of men. True to every element
of right, earnest, devoted, brave, heroic,
the mission that they have performed
will stand written in the Lamb's Book of
Life, as a witness to God that His sons
 and His daughters who received this mes-
sage of glad tidings from our father and
from His holy Son, through the adminis-
trations of His prophet, were not select-
ed unwisely, unwittingly, but they were
selected for their merit, for their heroic
courage, for their devotion, and love of
everything that was good and pure.


My sisters, I commend you for your
past labors, and trust that the decliaing
days of your life shall be the best of your
experience; that your voice for the future
shall be heard in the way of admonition,
and in the effort to perform and establish
in the souls of the younger generation
around the same heroic courage, the same
fixedness of purpose, the same determin-
ation that there shall be no failure so far
as your descendants are concerned. No
prouder thought can well up in the heart,
I am satisfied, of father and mother, than
the fact that my son and my daughter
has been a witness for this truth, that
was sacred to me in my boyhood and my
girlhood, and sent me from Scandinavia
or from Germany, or from Italy, or from
France, or that sent me from England or
Ireland, or Wales or Scotland, or that
gathered me from the islands of the sea,
from the native races of those lands, and
beneath the fostering care of that estab-
lished organization that our Father sent
into the world to regenerate mankind,
that my children may be made witnesees
for that truth and be as heroic in the
offerings they may make in its interests
a[-] was the girl who left father and
mother to gather to this mountain home,
that she might become indeed the savior
of her race, or that boy who, abandoning
the fireside and the circle in which he
moved, should be placed in the position
in future time that his race should through
him receive the administration of the or-
dinance of God's house, and the doorway
be opened to them, that by and by when
the names were counted up they would be
found among them, he having laid the
foundation stones upon which his race
were compelled to build.
	My sisters and my brothers, words of
mine cannot give to you the feelings that
exist in my heart as I stand before you
today.	I have nothing but blessings for
the mother's of Israel, for the women
whose hearts are big enough and broad
enough not only to feed her own little
family circle, but so full of good and just-
ice and right that she is willing and ready
to utilize that which comes to her for the
comfort and well-being of some less for-
tunate being.	May the spirit of this work
ever remain with you; may the heroic
principles involved in it guide your lives.
May your children and your children's
children, as they come and go, call you
blessed.	I speak of you as the best and
noblest that can be found in the world,
and I hope that your children will stand
before the peoples of the world in the
future, as I feel that I can stand before
the people of the world today, and say
"The best man I ever knew was my
own father; the best women I ever knew
were my father's own wives."		I lived
with all of them, for I was a waif in
their midst.	God knows that they were
genuine women of worth, fulfilling their
missions, undergoing their trials and car-
rying their responsibilities with heroic
courage.	And while I speak thus of them
I would have your sons and your daugh-
ters speak of you as father and mothers
with the same feeling and the same senti-
ment that exists in my own breast in re-
gard to their record, for I would have the
sons and daughters of Zion recognize the
pure spirit of that heroic body of women
whose hearts given to God, stood by the
home, and held the home sacred, while
their associates, their partners in life,

[Column 2]
were declaring this message of glad tid-
ings to the world, sending forth that mes-
sage, that the Gospel should be preached
in every land, in every clime, to every
nation, to every kindred, to every tongue,
to every people.
	When we shall see the results of these
ministrations, as husbands and wives,
with our children encircling us, shall the
husband say "This was my work;" or
shall the wife say "This was my work;"
or will we say with each other, "This
was our work; hand in hand in the midst
of tribulation we met the obligations
which God placed upon our shoulders,
and we have fulfilled our part?" and side
by side in the eternities I trust that we
will be true and faithful and just to each
other.
	That the Lord may bless you, Sister
Richards, bless you good sisters who are
ministering in this work, bless the grand
old lady who stands at the head of this
work, in connection with her associates,
who are ministering to the accomplish-
ment of the same great purpose; and
bless all the Saints, the daughters, the
fathers and the mothers that have had
part in the accomplishment of this work,
that their names may be indeed regis-
tered in the Lamb's Book of Life, and
when the book shall be opened it shall
there be enumerated "This man fulfilled
his destiny," and this woman registered
her name in the Lamb's Book of Life,
having fulfilled her part to the best of
her ability; this boy and this girl were
their devoted children, true to them in
the midst of their trials and tribulations,
and in their old age honored and blessed
them for their ministrations." That Jus-
tice and peace and love may abound
among you, and that joy may ever be
yours, and that your names may be in-
deed registered in that Lamb's Book of
Life is my prayer, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith then ad-
dressed the conference as follows: My
dear brothers and sisters—I have enjoyed
myself very much at this meeting. I
liked very much what the brethren said,
and I do not expect to say very much to
you, or speak very loud, I don't think I
can make half of you hear. I have not
practiced speaking half as much as I
have doing the work, and John Henry
has been telling you about what we used
to do. I have been a good worker, but
I have never practiced speaking very
much, and I haven't got a voice to reach
you all, I am afraid.
	I don't know where to begin, hardly,
but I believe I will begin with John
Henry's father coming and visiting us as
a missionary in Virginia, and I believed
his testimony; I believed what he said
about Joseph the Prophet, his cous-
in, and I have never changed my mind
in, and I have never changed my mind
yet; and it has been strengthened many
times in various ways. I know that Jo-
seph was a true prophet, and I knew it
before I ever saw him. The Lord made
manifest unto me that I knew he was a
true prophet, and that the Book of Mor-
mon was true, and that the Lord had
through Joseph Smith restored the Gos-
pel in its purity, and that has helped me
all my days. John Henry was talking
about sitting around the fireside. Some-
times we didn't have very much fire, but
a little ashes, perhaps. But I knew the
Gospel was true, and I knew that my

[Column 3]
husband was a true servant of the Lord;
and when he has been on missions. or
whatever he had to do, it was all right if
I could save a little something for him to
eat when he returned home, why that
was my pleasure, and my children the
same way, and some of the time would
have plenty, but I never had more than
I have now. I have plenty to eat, and
friends and home, and I am happy in my
labors, but I like to work in the temple
—that seems to be my work. I had my
endowments when the Prophet Joseph
was alive, because I was George A.
Smith's wife. and he was one of the
twelve apostles; and there was just the
Presidency of the Church and the twelve
apostles, the presiding bishops and a few
that received their endowments while
the Prophet Joseph was living, or else we
wouldn't know anything about it, or
what the temples were for. I was in the
Nauvoo temple from the first day to the
last, nearly every day, as long as we
worked there; and I have been in the
Endowment House about seventeen
years, working, and other places; the
Manti and Logan temples I have worked
in. and now I have been in the Salt Lake
temple twelve years—I have scarcely
missed a day. I can say that today I ran
away from my work, but it is baptism
day, and I could arrange that pretty well
so that the record will show all right.
But I love the temple work, I love the
work for the dead.
	Brother William Taylor was talking to
me a little while ago about Joseph the
Prophet being with his father, hiding up,
just out of Nauvoo; and he said that they
would have breakfast, go out into the
woods, where they would stay almost all
day; and while they were out there one
day, he had a revelation on baptism for
the dead, and the work in the temple,
and when he was telling it to me he said,
"I feel it now—that, sacred, holy spirit."
And I would urge you sisters to work in
the temple as much as you can for your
dead, and I am sure you will never be
sorry for it. Never mind about riches
and dress and the grand things of the
earth, but try your best to do for your
dead. Teach your children to love the
Gospel—your sons and your daughters—
so that they can have a testimony for
themselves; every sould that is honest
in heart may receive a testimony that
they cannot deny.
	I was just reading yesterday some of
the teachings of the Prophet Joseph to
the Relief Society, and to the presi-
dent and counselors, what they had to
say to the sick and poor, and about them,
and those that were wayward. It was
not only to preach to them and provide
for their wants, but they must know for
themselves that Mormonism was true and
love it.
	I had the good fortune to be at the or-
ganization of the Relief Society. There
was only eighteen present, and I have
the records which Sister Eliza Snow kept
of those meetings; and they are all gone
but myself—every name that is there is
gone; and I don't know what I am left
for, but some good, I believe. At any
rate, I pray God for health and strength
to help my sisters, and encourage them
to go on and perform their labors as the
Prophet talked to us, to save our souls,
and looking up the poor and the needy,
and fill up our days in usefulness, and not


be afraid that we are doing more than our
share of anything, as the Prophet Joseph
said was the way to do. I am anxious to
do my part, and a good share—good part
—so that no one can say, "You are in-
different, and I have to work and wait on
you." I don't think that will be said about
me. At any rate I hope it won't, for it
won't be true.
	Now I know I am not interesting you
here, and I don't want to take up the
time, because the President and some
of the sisters want to talk to you, or we
want them to, and the time is rather
precious. As soon as it is past, we will
break up and go away; but bear this in
mind: that our religion is true, and our
leaders are true, and be true to them, for
what is so nice as union and love? In
this way I started in the society—union
and love. You never need be afraid you
are doing more than your part, but do all
you can, and receive the blessings of the
Lord for your diligence and faithfulness,
and He will reward you.
	Now I think I have said plenty, and I
know you can't hear—the children make
a little noise. I pray the Lord to bless
you all, and make you glad you have
been here today, and fill your heart with
joy and love continually, with patience
and endurance, to love the sick and the
afflicted, the cast down and distressed,
and at last bring you safe in the celestial
kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the conference.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[-]E ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the ba[-]k
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit marri[-]d
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from on[-] dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer at a recent
meeting described women's clubs as "the
great nonprofessional university for wo-
men in their second youth."
	Mrs. Elizabeth Riis, wife of Jacob Riis,
the well-known writer and lecturer, lately
died at her home, Richmond Hill, New
York. She gave much of her time to
social services and possessed fine literary
ability, often collaborating with her hus-
band. In "The Making of an American"
Mr. Riis devoted one chapter to her.
	Miss Flora Cleft Stevenson, LL. D.,
chairman of the School Board of Edin-
burgh, Scotland, has been presented with
the freedom of that city in recognition of
her great public services. She was ad-
mitted a burgess and guild brother of the
city in testimony of regard for her char-
acter and her work in connection with
philanthropic and benevolent institutions,
and also for the eminent service she has
rendered to the cause of education as a
member for more than 20 years of the
Edinburgh School Board. In recognition
of the honor conferred on Miss Stevenson,
all the school children were given a holi-
day. The Baroness Burdett-Coutts is the
oldest living burgess of the city. She was
admitted in 1874.


WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
	VIRGINIA FRAZER BOYLE.

Who lays a stone, or plants a tiny tree,
	Or sows a seed of truth with zealous care,
Who does this in the name of liberty,
	Has breathed a patriot’s prayer.

’Tis not the blare of trumpet that proclaims
	The bravest, truest deeds of valor done;
Nor yet, the highest shaft, that bears the names
	Of greatest victories won.

We all were patriots, when the banners waved
	On high, to kiss a mellow land of peace;
We all are soldiers, with the country saved—
	When belching cannons cease.

But when the day shall come, what means the wave
	Of starry flag against a stormy sky,
If men have not the patriot’s will to save,
	Or courage how to die?

What means the boast? If there no works be
		found,
	Commensurate with blind and trusting faiths;
If these hoarse shouts that through the land re-
		sound,
	Proceed from hollow wraiths?

If there be set upon the Nation’s stalr,
	A crumbling god, whose blighting name is Self?
Seek ye the light of patriotism there,
	Beside the spoils of pelf?

Should there be need? God hold the fateful day
	In stumbling tardiness, where time is born—
Nor haste the call, but let the light we pray
	Meet every waking morn!

Fling out the beauty of thy missal, free,
	Oh! thou, my Country beautiful, and then
Columbia, draw thy children to thy knee,
	Thy heart has called for men!

Thou art the daughter of as pure a sire,
	As ever fathered nation of the earth;
Thine is the heritage of holy fire,
	God-given, at his birth!

Then yield thy homage; ’tis a little thing
	That we can lend to garland his bright scroll.
Swing high thy banners, bid the full time ring
	The deep bells of the soul.

In his fair name, ring out the cries that rend
	The life of hopeless want and needless pain;
The narrow, grinding labor that must bend
	Both young and age, for gain.

Bring in the dignity of labor, paid,
	Not wages that are doled like drops of life;
Nor at the horny hands, let honor fade,
	Nor right, awaken strife.

Blot out the hiss of anarchy, that dwells
	In squalid placed, brewing in the night;
And break the decalogue of self, which tells
	That might makes even right.

Cast out the fatted Pharisees who fold
	Their robes about them, ’broidered with rust;
Wring from the miser’s hand, ill gotten gold,
	But leave him all that’s just!

Yea, level there, the rank and file of men,
	Columbia, oh! thou daughter of the free,
Thy aristocracy is truth, and then
	Thy watchword “Liberty!”

But let the keystone of thine arch be Love
	And be the arch, “Humanity to Man”;
Thy deeds to nations of the earth shall prove
	Thy Union’s strength and span

Ay! keep this day, a “holy day” by name,
	A white stone, as the drifting years pass on;
Beneath a white seal, spotless keep the fame
	Of peerless Washington!
				Americaa Monthly Magazine.


MARY A. LIVERMORE.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore one of the
most famous, and one of the best known
women in the United States, and one
whose name has been heralded around
the world departed this life May 23, 1905.
	Mrs. Livermore continued her public
work to the v[-]ry last, she spoke at the
New England Suffrage Festival in Fan-
euil Hall, Boston on May 10. "She had
fainted four times that day, and was
quite unfit to be out; but she was deter-
mined to be there and to make the pre-
sentation speech when the Massachutetts
W. S. A. gave Mr. Blackwell the silver
pitcher in honor of his 80th birthday."
	"The next day she spoke again at a
meeting of the Melrose W. C. T. U. but
was forced to break off by a severe fit of
coughing. She had a bronchial attack,
lay  unconscious for several days, and
finally succumbed to heart failure, pass-
ing away without pain."
	"The funeral of this distinguished
woman was held in the First Congre-
gational Church at Melrose, Mass. on
May 25. The city was in mourning, the
flags at half-mast, the schools and places
of business closed. The G. A. R. Post
carried the coffin to the church. The
pall-bearers were Wm. Loyd Garrison,
Rev. Charles G. Ames and Henry B.
Blackwell. There was a great crowd,
including many persons of distinction."
	Mrs. Livermore's history is full of in-
teresting incidents, and gives one an idea
of the tendencies in childhood that develop
into strong characteristics in mature life.
It also shows something of heredity.
	"Mary Ashton Rice was born in North-
field, Mass. Dec. 19, 1820. Her father
Timothy Rice was of Welsh descent and
had served in the war of 1812-1815."
	From him it is said she inherited
strength and stature and something of her
gift of language. Her mother Zebiah
Vose Glover Ashton was the daughter of
Capt. Nathaniel Ashton of London, Eng-
land. Captain Ashton married a Boston
woman. She was so fond of her own
native country that she would not leave
it.
	Mrs. Livermore says in her childish im-
agination the Captain seemed to be "for-
ever standing with one foot on the sea
and one on dry land like the angel of the
apocalypse."
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34 SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY AND AUGUST 1905. No. 2-3


CONTENTS.
Address by President Jos. F. Smith...............				9
R. S. Conference, Weber Stake....................				7
R. S. Report, Alpine Stake........................				11
An Indian Scare,...............E. B. Spencer				11
The American Church, Berlin......L. D. Alder			11
A Trip to Portland with the Press Club, L.<Louise>B.C.	13
R. S. Reports, Panguitch and Emery Stakes,				18
	Pioneer;and Oneida Stakes.....................			14
	Box Elder, and Nebo Stakes...............				15
Honor to a Veteran Woman...................					16
In Memoriam...........................................				16
EDITORIAL:—Apology and Explanation—A
	Notable Anniversary—A Day of Wonders
	—Editorial Notes.............................				12
POETRY:—The Pioneer............A. W. Cannon			9
	The Dreamer—Peddemoor Hall............				11


THE PIONEER.
	[Written for Professor Charles Kent and sung
at the celebration July 24, 1905.]
O'er prairies vast,
And deserts drear,
There came a valiant band,
Through moutnain pass,
And rivers clear,
Unto the promised land,
Unto the promised land,
Oh praise, Oh praise his name,
Oh give, Oh give him fame,
With courage bold,
With heart of gold,
His deeds we do revere,
Oh none so brave,
His life he gave,
The bo[-]d, the dauntless pioneer.

His hardship great,
And toil untold
Transformed the desert wide,
Now gardens fair,
Homes rich and rare
Appear on every side,
Appear on every side;
Oh praise, Oh praise his name,
Oh give, Oh give him fame,
With courage bold,
With heart of gold,
His deeds we do revere,
Oh none so brave.
His life he gave
The bold, the dauntless p[-]oneer.

ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
Tune of "A Warrior Bold."


[Column 1]
ADDRESS BY PREST. JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	In the Relief Society Conference, morn-
ing session, Ogden, June 6, 1905.
	President Smith: "I trust that we were
not responsible for the lateness of the
train; we pushed on it as hard as we
could to get it here in time, but it
seemed to be a little leisurely about
coming, and we were compelled to abide
its time for we could not get here before.
I am glad, however, that we are here,
and that we have the privilege of seeing
so many of the mothers and daughters of
Israel assembled as I see in this meeting,
and I sincerely hope that this Conference
will prove to be a very interesting one, and
I trust instructive, by the presence in-
spiration and influence of the good spirit
of the Lord. It is through the spirit of
God that we enjoy light, and that we are
able to understand truth; therefore I
hope the spirit of God may take the
presidency over the hearts and feelings o[-]

[Column 2]
all the sisters and of the brethren who
are assembled here in this meeting, and
that will assemble here this afternoon,
and that what is said may be said under
the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord,
also that what is done may be done
strictly with an eye single to the building
up of the Kingdom of God in the earth.
I feel that it is a great occasion to see so
many of the mothers and daughters of
Israel assembled together in one meet-
ing. I had no idea that I would see so
many, but I am pleased to see you and
pleased to meet with you, and as I said
before, I hope that we will have a time
of rejoicing together, that we will become
better acquainted with each other, and
that perchance the Lord will give to us,
some words of counsel, of inspiration, of
exhortation or of admonition, as the spirit
may direct, that will be beneficial to us
all, and that will help to lift up the
spirits, put joy into the souls and cour-
age into our hearts, and give us wisdom,
that we may be able to direct our lives
in the channel of peace, of good will
towards all mankind, and in the way
that will result in the greatest possible
good to ourselves and to all those with
whom we come in contact in our daily
walk in life. I look upon the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints as one of the most
important auxiliary organizations in the
Church. I think it is one of the greatest
importance, and in which very many vital
things, vital principles and vital necessi-
ties are involved—the necessities of the
poor, the necessities of the weak, the
necessities of the erring, and of those
that lack understanding, and the testi-
mony of the spirit of God in their hearts.
This organization is instituted and in-
tended for the correction of all these
imperfections, lacks and needs and the
filling up of all the vacancies that may
exist with perfect knowledge, perfect
understanding, perfect fidelity to duty,
and to the performance of those great
and good works  that are necessary for
these organizations to perform.
	Now may the Lord bless you, my
sisters and my brethren, and all that per-
taineth to you; may peace dwell in your
hearts, and may the love of truth ever
burn in your souls, that you may be de-
voted to the cause of Zion, that you
may be interested in this work in which
you are engaged, that you may sustain
your presiding officers, from first to last,
and respect authority, the authority that
the Lord has given, that He has insti-
tuted and established. A due regard and
respect for the authorities of the Church,
both in the Relief Society and all the
auxiliary organizations and in the various
organizations of the quorums of the
priesthood, and in the organizations of
the stakes of Zion and the wards of
the Church, in all these organizations
a proper regard and a proper and whole-
some respect for the authorities of the
Church is absolutely necessary to the en-
joyment of a proper spirit on the part of

[Column 3]
the Latter-day Saints. We cannot enjoy
the right spirit in our hearts if we neglect
to respect those things that God has done.
and the organizations that He has insti-
tuted for the government and guidance of
His people.
	Now may the Lord bless you. I realize
that it is late, and that it was not intend-
ed for me to say but a few words, and I
therefore shall close, by asking the Lord,
our Father, to bless you sisters, as moth-
ers, as wives, as daughters, and as mem-
bers of the Relief Society of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
may He prosper you in all your labors,
in your homes, in your outgoings and in-
comings, and when you shall lie down
and when you shall rise up; may peace
dwell in your souls; may your hearts be
lifted up, full of joy and thanksgiving to
the Father, and may you realize to the
fullest extent and in the fullest measure
that you are indeed engaged in the work
of salvation for the human family. This
is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


(Continued from page 8, June Number.)

AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Sister Emmeline B. Wells: I feel as
some of the sisters said, that it is too bad
for us who are always talking to the Re-
lief Society to take the time to day, when
we have the brethren here, and es-
pecially when we have President Smith,
	I have been thinking while I have
been sitting here, that all of you younger
people will remember with as much joy
and satisfaction that you shook hands
with President Joseph F. Smith as I re-
member when I was very young of shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph. I can
never forget it, nor the sensation that it
gave me, that I felt as if I did not want
anyone to speak to me; I felt it was such
a sacred thing. Now I hope you children,
all of you who have seen him seen him here to day,
and all of you who have shaken hands
with him, will remember it with as much
joy, because he stands in the same posi-
tion with us as Joseph the Prophet did,
although of course he is not THE PROPHET
of this dispensation, not the first, but he
is one of them and we know him well, feel
very greatly honored whenever we are in
his presence, or with him, and feel that we 
would like him to come into our homes,
and I am sure you would feel glad that he 
came into this hall today.
	I look back and remember with a great
deal of pleasure the day on which the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake was effected, when Presi-
dent Young and others associated with 
him came and visited the Relief Society,
when all the organizations were gathered
together, the Relief Society, and the
Young Ladies associations, in the taber-
nacle. Of course President Shurtliff was
there, although he was not the President
then. And others here who remember
that great occasion, and we had never
thought of stake organizations of the Re-


[Column 1]
lief Society, although some stakes had
been organized ecclesiastically. On that
occasion a great many good things
were said by President Young and others
who were there with him, and toward
the latter part of the meeting he ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards, who is
here with us to day. That was twenty-
eight years ago the 19th of July, and he
appointed her to preside over all the or-
ganizations. At that time the Young
Ladies Association, or the Retrenchment
Associations, were with the Relief Society,
and had no central organization, nor had
the Relief Society. I often asked Sister
Eliza if she was really the President, and
she said: ,,No, I am not, because I have
not been elected". But she was elected
afterwards, as you know, in 1880, and had
her counselors. But that was the begin-
ning of stake organizations, and when-
ever I come to a conference here and see
a large number of sisters gathered to-
gether I look back to that period of time.
You know we older people are always
looking back and thinking of things that
happened so long ago, and I am always
thinking of those that were there at that
time, and many of them that have gone
on the other side. We have more of them
over there; in fact we have only about
three of the oldest veterans of the Re-
lief Society living, and those are our own
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and Sister Jane S. Richards and
Sister Mary Isabella Horne, who is not
able now to be among us and visit us,
but is still living and able to talk with us,
and sometimes goes out among us. These
three I consider as veterans that stand
in the Relief Society of those who stood
in the beginning, although Sister Richards
and Sister Horne were not present on the
great occasion, which we must call a
great occasion and a grand occasion, when
the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the
Relief Society, on the 17 day of March,
1842. And what a wonderful work has
been done since then!
	I do hope, that you sisters at the farther
end of the hall heard what our President
said to us to day, because really she stands
in a way alone, being present at the first
organization, and also being the only one
living, man or woman, who received her
endowments in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and so it seems a wonder-
ful thing to all of us who know it, and we
think of it and we feel, that she has
certainly been spared for some great pur-
pose; and it is a great purpose to stand at
the head of this organization, and to lead
it and to plan for it. Of course you who
plan for your own little wards and for
your own stakes of Zion, think that is
a great thing; but when you come to plan
for all the organizations all over the
world, and new ones being made almost
all the time, why it is a wonderful thing
to stand at the head of that. And then
remember too, that she is the leading
woman in the temple, in the greatest
temple, the Salt Lake Temple, where
those great manifestations were at the
time it was dedicated, in that holy place.
I think we cannot reverence her, or the
other sisters I spoke of, too much. We
are happy to reverence those, who are
gone, the prophets, who are gone, and
the Apostles; but we must also remember
to reverence those that we have with us
to day: the president, his counselors, the
apostles, and those who stand at the

[Column 2]
head of the great organizations of the
quorums of Seventy and preach the Gospel
to all the world, I thought to day, when
Brother John Henry was speaking about
the missionaries outside in the world, and
mentioned some of the opportunities they
have, how often I have said to the young
people, and also to the mothers who
mourn for their sons going, which they
very often do, that it was the best thing
in the world for them. It is far better than
any college training, or any university
training, and we know many of us, that
the men who have gone out into the
world and never have had any of that
training have brought many souls to
Christ, have baptized many into the
church, and have had great success. The
spirit of God has been poured out upon
them. It does not need a college education
to give us the spiritual powers, and the
humblest and those who seek unto the
Lord himself, and read the Scriptures
and the Book of Mormon and the Book
of Covenants, will have that spirit with
them, or may have it, and do have it, to
a great extent. And if there is a book
that I think we ought to read it is the
Book of Covenants, that was given by
revelation to our prophet, the leader of
this dispensation, in this day and age of
the world; and I know it is not read as
it should be, and I know that many of us
who do read it read it carelessly.
	I do want to say that we have testi-
mony upon testimony every day of
our lives now, of the truth of the Gospel,
just think of the dark clouds that were
hanging over us a while back. O, they
were so dark that it almost seemed as
dark in Salt Lake City as it did in Nauvoo
when the Prophet Joseph was killed. It
seemed as if such a heavy dark cloud was
hanging over that city just about the
time that our brethren were called to go
down to Washington and testify, and
there were of course a very great many
prayers offered up, and no doubt a great
deal of faith exercised, for certainly the
Lord lifted that dark cloud and removed
from our hearts the fears and doubts and
forebodings that many of us had at that
time in regard to the outcome. And every
day these things are being removed, and
light is coming, faster and more of it, and
intelligence and wisdom and understand-
ing, and I h[-]pe that we will all partake
of it.
	I hope that the Lord may bless us with
wisdom and understanding, and that we
may never do or say anything that shall
grieve the spirit of the Lord, or those who
preside over us in all the places where we
are called to labor.
	President Smith's address will follow
in our next number.


WOMANS' EXPONENT.


<Column 1>
R. S. REPORTS.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine 
Stake Relief Society was held at Amer-
ican Fork July 21st 1905.
	President Rebecca Standring presiding.
We were favored with the presence of
our beloved President Bathsheba W.
Smith, also Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board, all the Stake officers and
a full attendance of officers and members
of the wards. Meeting opened at 10
o'clock with the usual exercises. President
Standring gave a report of Alpine Stake
The Stake numbers something over 800

<Column 2>
members in 13 wards, have conjoint
meetings in 3 districts every three months,
also a monthly meeting of the officers of
the 4 wards of Am. Fork. The stake
officers meet oncc a month to report visits
and prepare work for the coming months,
and enjoy a good spiritual meeting in 
love and unity. Song by three little girls
"Count your blessings."
	General President B. W. Smith spoke
a short time. Thought it was better to 
count our blessings than to brood over our
troubles. Spoke of storing grain and ad-
vised the sisters to have good bins. Re-
ferred to the time, when the Presidency
used to counsel the brethren to lay up
sufficient grain to last their families seven
years, but the brethren did not take the 
advice, and the President put it into the
hands of the sisters to store grain for a
time of need. Advised the sisters to be in 
harmony with the Presidency and to be
united together to attend to the sick and 
poor, and to be sure and know that "Mor-
monism is true".
	To get a testimony of the work and to
teach it to their children. In Nauvoo they 
had the Prophet with them and he taught
them many glorious principles. She loved
to work in the Temple, had also worked
in the Nauvoo Temple. The work here
is carried on the same as it was in Nauvoo,
and the Temple is filled every day.
Prayed the Lord to bless the sisters in 
all their labors and may we meet together
again when called to the great beyond.
	Sister C. S. Williams: "The spirit of 
praise and thanksgiving should be in our
hearts continually for the blessings we re-
ceive". Was pleased with the idea of 
conjoint meetings of the wards and would
try to spread the custom. Advised
mothers to keep the girls at home as far
as possible, for they have no idea of the 
snares and temptations they will have to
meet. Gave good advice to the teachers
to seek the spirit of their work.
	Stake Coun. A. C. Hindley said many
had made sacrifices to attend this con-
ference. They had laid aside their cares
and come here to be fed by theHoly Spirit
and receive blessing. This is a noble
work and may we all be willing to do our 
part.
	American Fork 1st ward reported by
Pres. Elisabeth Durrant.
	Lehi 1st ward by Pres. Marian Ander-
sen.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman
spoke on the subject of harmony and 
order. When the Lord has any message
to reveal He gives it to his appointed ser-
vants, showing that the Lord has his
appointed servants, showing that the
Lord has his authority on the earth. He
inspired his servant Joseph to organize
this society and the good these sisters are
doing is immense. After singing and prayer
Conference adjourned until 2 oclock.
		(To be continued.)


Mme. Rolland, a Belgian, attained her
104th birthday on June 12. She is cred-
ited in Belgium with being the only living
witness of the battle of Waterloo; having
been seated on a wall in the neighbor-
hood of the battlefield during a part of
the engagement. Last year, when the
French monument to Waterloo heroes
was unveiled on the battlefield, Mme.
Rolland was alloted a place of honor as
the most noteworthy spectator present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE DREAMER.

BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Near a bend of the river
On a bright summer day,
A winsome maid with heart so gay,
Sits idly dreaming the hours away.

Her hand she trails in the silvery stream,
That plays an accompaniment to her dream,
While from trees above her blossoms bright,
Are falling upon her in showers light.

And the perfumed breath of the warm June breeze
That's playing such havoc with flow'rs and trees,
Is fanning her face so wondrous fair,
And plays "hide and seek" with her golden hair,

There she sits thro' the long bright day,
Dreaming love's golden dream alway;
And never a cloud in the sky appears,
To warn her that troubles come with years.

Oh, beautiful dreamer! dream on! dream on!
Build your castles in sunny Spain!
With never a thought of the waking hour,
Which brings the clouds and rain

Others have dreamed as thou dost today,
'Neath summer skies and fragrance sweet,
Only to waken and find that life,
Brought them trials which all must meet.

For "Life is a stage where all play a part;"
Tho' we may dream we awake with a start,
To find that in dream-land our fancies have
	strayed;
And those castles we builded, in dust now are laid.


PEDDMOOR HALL,

SUTTON OLD FIELDS, WARWICK CO, ENGLAND.

	Oh, how I love that old hall;
	With its trees so tall,
They seem to have hidden from view,
	And its mantle of green,
	Formed of ivy, is seen,
Growing there as it formerly grew.

	Then around, the old moat
	Is still there to denote
That it claims all the honors of time;
	And cuckoo's soft song,
	From its bushes among,
Demands a fond tribute in rhyme.

	Not only around
	Is beauty there found,
There are blessings that gladden within;
	Peace and welcome are there,
	For the stranger to share,
Far away from the busy world's din.

Oh, it brings to my mind
	All its memories kind,
That time nor the world can efface;
	For a parent once dear
	May have helped to rear
The woodbines that bloom round the place.

	The old patriarch, too,
Has passed from our view,
Whose goodness ennobled on earth;
	He was gentle and kind,
And has left none behind
Who love not to speak of his worth.

	May the happy old dame
	Through life pass the same;
And live long in the hall to be blest;
	May her old age be crowned,
	By her children around,
With bliss as she glides to her rest;

	And may those who survive,
	At the same fate arrive,
When time on their heads brings its snow,
	May mirth and good cheer
Be ever found there,
And each child in affection still grow,

	Blest, perfect retreat,
	l never can meet
With charms so abounding as thine;
	For fruit, flower and tree,
	With the blithe snmmer bee,
Seem all in thy praise to combine.


Oh, I love that old hall,
	While the leaves o'er it fall,
And the green ancient walk is there still;
	And the summer house seat,
	In the garden so neat.
May the Peddemoor children long fill.
FRANCES HANBON.


[Column 1]
AN INDIAN SCARE.
		A TRUE STORY OF EARLY DAYS.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning I think
in February, in 1853, in the then small 
town of Nephi, Utah. Nearly all of the 
adult inhabitants were in the log meeting
house.  A peaceful spirit pervaded the 
place. We were listening to a fine dis-
course by the President, Elder Joseph L.
Heywood, I was leaning my head against
the side of the house when I heard the 
terrible war whoop which rang down from
the snowy side of old Mount Nebo, where
the Indians, had their winter wickeups, I 
heard the clatter of many horses' hoofs, 
and ere the people were aware of trouble
the Indian warriors surrounded the house.
The five windows and the door were 
crowded with the dark angry faces, their
eyes fierce, and visage stern, no pity
lingering near, for the defenceless wor-
shippers; guns and arrows were pointed
at every one in the house, and apparently
every moment was our last; some of the
men that sat with their backs to the win-
dows, were a little nervous, but Pres. 
Heywood's calm voice quieted them. "Sit
still brethren don't move. You are as safe
there as anywhere in the house," he said.
	The Indian Chief Old Batteus threw
open the door, and strode to the fireplace,
turned his back to the fire, and faced the 
audience, who astonished and quiet, sat
awaiting results. One resisting motion,
one note of alarm, and death awaited us.
But there was hope, in the Father in
Heaven, that He would preserve us from
the fury of the untamed savages.
	The old chief, erect and defiant, com-
menced dancing, and singing the "Death
Song." He threw off his blanket, still
singing and dancing and one article of
clothing after another, until the naked
savage was brought to a stop by President
Heywood springing forward, picking up
his dirty breech-clout, handed it to the 
angry owner, and calmly commanded
him to put it on. Old Batteus obeyed. 
The dance was stopped. The song was
silenced. That one act of our President,
with the blessing of the Lord saved us
for had Batteus gone on unmolested, at
a raise of his hand, and a pitch of his
song, the signal would have been given,
for the Indians to fire, and none could 
have escaped, hemmed in as we were.
	The peace of the Lord was with us.
We felt His care was over us. A talk
ensued, and after hours of talk and inter-
pretation, the old chief confessed that he 
was angry, because the night before, a 
sub-chief had been appointed by the Mor-
mons, chief over him, and he didn't like
it. He wouldn't have it so. He was Big 
Chief, and Big chief he still would be.
	"He is not Chief over you" was told
him, "You are the Big Chief, and he is
the Little Chief" "we told him to teach 
his Indians not to fight, not to kill, not to
steal, nor to lie, that is all." "He was
not to meddle with you. He is not over."
	The heart of the old fellow softened
The wild savage relented. After all he 
was still Big Chief, with no one over him.
He demanded tobacco. President Hey-

[Column 2]
wood said, "Hand out your tobacco
bretheren," Every man that used it, pull-
ed it out of his pocket, and parts of plugs
were handed over from one to another
until all they had was given to the Inter-
preter, who gave it to the chief, who took 
it with a grunt of satisfaction.
	"Quinch in bungo ash nida mina" was
the next demand.
	"Who has an ox they will give Bat-
teus?" asked President Heywood.
	"I have a white ox he can have" an-
swered one of the brethren.
The young Interpreter told Batteus
that he could have an ox in the morning.
	"I will send for it he said," He was
pacified. He could have a big feast. He
went out, called off his warriors, and they
rode rapidly away to the camp, on
the side of Mount Nebo.
	How thankful we were that our lives
were spared, and that the ordeal was
over.
	Some even laughingly said "Batteus
wanted an ox, and thought he would
scare us to get one."

EMILY B. SPENCER,
CANNONVILLE, UTAH


THE AMERICAN CHURCH, BERLIN.

	Situated on Motz Strasse, in the new
and fashionable quarter of Berlin this
church is known far and wide. It is a
fine commodious structure, of American
style. The Rev. Dr. Dickie, a typical
American gentleman, is pastor. He was
very proud of his countrywomen of the 
Congress, and, on the occasion of the
speaking of Miss Susan B. Anthony. Rev.
Anna Shaw and Mrs Sewall,showed them
marked courtesy.
	These women as brilliant speakers per-
haps, are unequalled in the world, and 
here, where such a thing perhaps before,
had never been seen, they received all
but an ovation.
	After the close of the Congress, Miss
Alder, and the writer, attended Sabbath
School in the Church, and were court-
eously conducted to the bible class. Soon
another lady from Utah entered, to
whom we bowed. At the close of the
session when we moved back into the 
body of the hall, the writer detected the
above mentioned lady pointing at her,
while speaking to a third lady. School
out, the writer was introduced to that
lady, who abruptly said: "Where are 
you from?" "Utah" was the reply. "Gen-
tiles, I hope," she exclaimed. "We are
thankful to say, Mormons" we said as
in one breath. "I am sorry," she re-
marked, "And trying to be good ones,"
the writer rejoined. "I am glad of that"
the lady said, mistaking "good" for
our meaning "faithful"
	Her voice betrayed her bitter feeling,
yet had she not been informed of our
faith she would have been glad to wel-
come, sisters from a far off land.
	We remained for Church, where any
American can attend, "without endanger-
ing their standing at home. It is well to 
consider all things, "that we may hold
fast to that which is good." So we thought
as we wended our way home.
	The heritage of Christ has followed
through the generations, and as then,the
question is asked, "Can any good thing
come out of Nazareth?"
	LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]


Woman's Exponent. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.
Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY AND AUGUST, 1905

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT


APOLOGY AND EXPLANATION.

	The editor feels an apology, and also
an explanation is due to the patrons and
subscribers of the paper on account of 
the lateness of this and other recent
issues. 
	We are frequently told that excuses are 
made for this by our sisters who travel as
missionaries to those at a distance, on
the plea of "so much to do." The editor
desires to say, that the real reason is a 
financial one. The matter rests with
the agents and sisters who are interested
in sustaining the paper as the organ of
the Relief Society, to assist in collecting
money due and to procure new subscrip-
tions. It seems useless to reiterate what 
has been so often said before that every
President of a Relief Society is expected
to use her influence in its interest and to 
appoint an agent in the Society where
she presides to canvass for the paper. 
	We are very sorry, more than sorry 
grieved even for those who are prompt in
their payments, but we desire to say too
that the EXPONENT is more than a news-
paper, it is history, recording matters
pertaining to woman's work in the
Church, and it goes abroad to many lands
and the islands of the sea.


A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Notwithstanding the announcement
made in the May number of our paper,
and the more elaborate notice in June of
the birthday anniversary of our honored
President of the Relief Society there
still remains much to say and "The half
can never be told," in this little paper,
but we feel it is due to the University of
Provo that did such great honor to Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith to make more
than a passing mention.
	We do feel that the Professors, teach-
ers and students of that famous institu-
tion were more than generous in the
ovation given our beloved veteran sister
and mother in Israel, and that the
example they have set in thus showing
reverence to one of Zion's most cele-
brated women, one of Utah's heroines
will be a blessing and credit to that great
University of learning.
	A committee with carriages met the
party at the station and escorted the en-
tire company to the University grounds
where the ladies and gentlemen all were
most courteously recieved and welcomed.
President Joseph F. Smith and President


John R. Winder were honored guests 
and about twenty-five others. We were
first ushered into the Devotional room 
where the students meet for morning
prayer, and President Winder offered an
eloquent prayer, from there we went to 
the large Auditorium where the students 
were assembled, the entire assemblage
rising to their feet to welcome their Pres-
ident and guests, President Joseph F.
Smith, President of the Faculty of the 
University.	The exercises under the
direction of Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall were
altogether of an elevating nature, Presi-
dent Jos. F. Smith's address was espe-
cially brilliant and abounded in excellent
testimonials of love, honor and esteem
for the lady in whose honor the college
had convened. The musical exercises
under the direction of Prof. Anthon H.
Lund were melodiously uplifting.
	After the morning exercises we repaired
to the large and commodious hall of the
Gymnasium, where an elaborate banquet
was spread that had been prepared and was
served by the class of Domestic Science.
The afternoon in the Tabernacle and the 
reception in the evening were very de-
lightful and surely Provo did herself proud
in honoring the guest of the day and her
followers.


The evening of the second day of fes-
tivities when the Hon. W. N. Williams 
and his good wife entertained their "Aunt
Bathsheba" and her friends was partic-
ularly pleasant. President Joseph F. 
Smith spoke of the Elect Lady in the 
highest terms of praise and commenda-
tion and we all said Amen, other speak-
ers there were who were profuse in words
of love and esteem, and several brought 
precious gifts and tokens in appreciation
of friendship and sisterly love. 
	Delicious refreshments were served by
the amiable daughters of the host and 
hostess and there was some fine singing by
young ladies and a band of Juvenile boys
serenaded the veteran sister with sweet
music on the outside. 
	The sisters of the General Board pre-
sented their beloved President with the 
new edition in large type of the Book of 
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
the Secretary had the honor of saying a 
few loving words for the Board when 
making the presentation.


[Column 1]
		A DAY OF WONDERS.
	There are so many important events
transpiring nowadays, that one is at a 
loss to decide what material is best or of
the most consequence to write about. 
Newspapers, journals and magazines are
filled to overflowing with the wonderful
doings, inventions and discoveries of the 
present day.  Verily it is an age of won-
ders and the fulfillment of prophecy. 
	I think one may be safe in saying that
there never was so much travel and traffic
before as now, this present year will
mark in this respect more going to and fro 
in the earth, and wandering up and down
than there has ever been in the annals of 
history. People are seeing everything in 
the way of scenery and countries, cities
and towns are in this way becoming fam-
iliar to the masses even. Whether the
information gained will result in perman-
ent good remains with the future, but

[Column 2]
seriously speaking, there must be greater 
enlightenment, and it cannot fai to be be-
neficial in some ways, in comparing notes
and methods on various subjects and in 
the exercise of greater charity as one
comes to know conditions, circumstances
and environments. 
	Yet withal there are many things to 
deplore, notwithstanding all the progress
made, all the knowledge gained, yet na-
tions still persist in fighting each other, 
and refusing negotiations of peace, there-
fore one cannot help thinking there is
still much to be done before the dawn of 
the Millennial day.
	There certainly is in the outlook from 
our point of view a better prospect for 
uniting forces for any great world-move-
ment than ever before, and this is hope-
ful. One of the good points made by 
President Roosevelt in his recent address
to a delegation of Trades Unionists was, 
"You must remember that arbitration 
isn't everything. You must also consid-
er conciliation."
	When the second Hague conference 
convenes, which will be called by Presi-
dent Roosevelt it is said, as soon as the 
Eastern war ends, the measures taken 
will not only extend the use of arbitration
but consider the nature of conciliation. 
Another measure to be proposed is "The
formation of a World's Advisory Congress
composed of delegates of all the nations
to meet every two or three years to con-
sider international questions and to rec-
commend international laws."
	This is a very large subject, but it is 
one of the most intense interest and 
women have considered this question of
internationalism ever since, if not before
the great International Council of Wom-
en was organized in Washington in 1888. 
It is to the writer a very fascinating sub-
ject. Some women have grasped a few of 
the elements of this subject of inter-
nationalism, and many more might if they 
would give some attention to it. We are
apt to talk of the betterment of the whole
world, and we try to teach patriotism to 
the children iu the schools, and to the 
grown up people in the various organiza-
tions, and it don't require a very great de-
gree of college education or learning to 
master the subject of world-wide inter-
nationalism; a little geography, history, 
psychology, some every day logic and a 
desire for justice for all mankind would
he necessary, to be sure, but the vast
amount of good that has been accom-
plished already by the international so-
cieties among women proves what great
results might come from similar move-
ments of both men and women. The 
Peace and Arbitration International Con-
gress is perhaps the best illustration we
have to offer at the present time, and the 
Peace meetings held under the auspices
of the National and International Coun-
cil are helping to educate the people in
this one important line of international-
ism, and this spirit will eventually come
to be a power for good against the evils
that prevail in the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie returned some time since from
their trip to Portland where they attend-
ed the N. A. W. S. A. Convention, and 
many of the entertainments given by the


Portland people in honor of their guests. 
Mrs. Dusenberry made an address at one
of the sessions, and was warmly ap-
plauded, and afterwards invited to a seat
on the platform by the International Pres-
ident, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs.
Dusenberry remained in Portland after
Mrs. Beatie's return, and attended the
Conference of Charities and Corrections,
to which both ladies had been appointed
by Gov. Cutler. Mrs. Dusenberry re-
ports enjoying the meetings of the Con-
ference very much, and having had ex-
cellent opportunities of speaking and re-
porting the work of the Woman's Relief
Society among our people, and being
treated with the greatest kindness and
courtesy; and that she has learned much
by knowing of other methods of benevo-
lent work, and has sown some good
among those with whom she conversed,
at any rate removed much prejudice from
the minds of those who had been blinded
by false statements and misrepresentation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
A TRIP TO PORTLAND WITH THE PRESS
CLUB,
	It would be hard to find a jollier party
than the Utah Press Association on their 
recent trip to Portland and the Fair.
	On Monday evening, June 19th, we 
took the train for Portland. There were
in the party old people, young people, 
and middle aged people, mostly newspaper 
men and women.
	All day Tuesday we were speeding 
through Idaho with its great plains of
sage brush and here and there patches 
of green. We followed the course of 
the Snake river a great deal, and had a 
beautiful view of the American Falls in
that river.
	Wednesday morning we were all up
quite early, as we wished to see the sun
come up from behind the mountains and 
behold its first rays on the Columbia
river, and I can assure you it was a 
beautiful sight. As we sped along to- 
wards Portland, following directly the 
course of the river, we passed immense 
fishing wheels; the Columbia river is 
famous for its salmon, and all the im-
mense wheels we saw are used for catch-
ing that fish.
	We left the course of the Columbia at
a point about three hours' ride from 
Portland, and passed through a beautiful
country, very tall mountains on both sides
covered with pines and ferns, with every
here and there beautiful little waterfalls
bounding down their sides. We crossed
the Willamette river at East Portland
and arrived at the Union Depot at about
10:30 a.m.
	Immediately on our arrival in Portland
we were met by a committee, who ten-
dered the party (through Mr. D. P. Felt,
who was in charge,) all the privileges of 
the Fair.
	Most of the party stayed at the Ameri-
can Inn—a fine hotel inside the Fair
grounds, and here the Utah people were
very well treated; indeed, we were shown
courtesies wherever we went, Mr, D. P.
Felt in his pleasing way, arranging many
good times for all of us.
	The Fair grounds are ideally situated,
being on a beautiful lagoon surrounded
by mountains covered with pines and
ferns; the grounds themselves consisting
of sloping lawns and beautiful flower-
beds—for Portland, as you know, is noted
for its roses.

(Column 2)
	We visited and admired all the Fair
buildings, the Utah building being visited
oftenest, I suppose as Mr. Spencer Claw-
son kindly invited the Utah people to be 
perfectly at home in this building.
	The mineral exhibit from Utah is es-
pecially fine, as is also the educational
exhibit.
	As our days were spent in visiting the
different buildings, our evenings were
spent on the Trail, enjoying immensely
the many shows it has to offer.
	Besides seeing the Fair and all its at-
tractions thoroughly, we enjoyed a num-
ber of other trips.
	The Utah party with the members of
the California Press were the guests of
the Portland Board of Trade in a trip
up the Columbia river to Collin's Springs
and return. This was indeed a fine
trip; on both sides of the river rose ma-
jestic mountains covered with pines, and 
on one side were numerous waterfalls.
We passed through the Locks, that won-
derful piece of engineering which cost the
government such an immense sum of
money, and which made it possible for
steamers to pass through a portion of the
river otherwise unnavigable.
	As we would not reach our destination
till the afternoon, delicious refreshments
were served on the steamer, and when 
we reached Collin's Springs an elegant
dinner was served to over two hundred
people.
	This little resort (Collin's Springs)
would be an ideal place to spend the
summer facing the broad Columbia river
and having at its back the high fir-clad
mountains.
	Ont he return trip we had an impromp-
tu program, the Utah people taking their
part and showing their talent in a musical
as well as in an oratorical way. We arrived
at our hotel about midnight, after having
spent one of the most enjoyable days im-
aginable.
	This trip was up the river, and through
the courtesy of the Astoria and Columbia
River Railroad officials we were enabled
to take a trip down the river through
Astoria, past the mouth of the Columbia
and out to Seaside on the Pacific coast.
	The scenery all along was beautiful,
and when we reached Seaside we went to
the Moore hotel, which is situated on the
beach, looking out on the Pacific ocean.
A few of our party indulged in the surf-
bathing, but as it was rather cold most of
us were content to wander along the beach
and pick up shells.
	The street-car system in Portland is 
very good, and the street-car company
took the Utah party on a sight-seeing trip
all along the city, a courtesy which was
greatly enjoyed and highly appreciated 
by all participating.
	The Press Association of Utah certain-
ly had a fine trip; on every hand we were
well treated; just showing our Utah badg-
es seemed to insure our courteous treat-
ment and make us welcome.
	Especial thanks are due to Mr. D. P.
Felt, who had the party in charge, for
the able way in which he took care of
everybody and everything, treating every
one alike and making each one enjoy
everything possible to the utmost.
	Nothing could be more pleasant for a
summer outing, rest, or wedding trip than
a visit to Portland and the Fair and sur-
rounding country.
	Louise [handwritten]
	L. B. C.


R. S. REPORTS.

PANGUITCH STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Panguitch Stake convened in Escalante,
May 25, 1905, commenced in the usual
manner; Counselor Alice J. Cameron pre-
siding. Six wards were represented.
Sisters Minnie Loveland Snow and Jo-
sephine West, who were visiting the
Primary conference, both spoke encour-
agingly to the sisters; Sister Alice J. Cam-
eron gave a few closing remarks. Con-
ference then adjourned until some future
day, and closed in the usual manner.
	This is a very short report, but on ac-
count of so many meetings to be held at
that conference we were only allowed
one short meeting.
	MARGARE H. HAYCOCK, Secretary.

ENSIGN STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of En-
sign stake convened on Friday, June 30,
1905, the first annual conference and
was held in the 12th ward chapel with a
large crowd of workers in attendance.
	Members of the stake presidency also
of the General Relief Society Board were
present.
	The musical numbers were very fine.
Instrumental selections by Sisters Kate
Romney Stewart and Lizzie Thomas
were much appreciated, as were the vocal
solos of Margaret C. S, Hull. Elma Young
and Olea shipp. 
Sister Augusta W. Grant gave an excel-
lent talk on Japan, after which Sister E.
B. Wells spoke of the magnitude of the
Relief Society work, including nurses
work, etc. Counselor Annie T. Hyde
talked about the Relief Society bureau of
employment for the protection of young 
girls coming from the country to work.
	Remarks were made also by Dr. M. C.
Roberts, Hon. W. W. Riter, President
Richard W. Young, Counselor Joseph S.
Wells, and many others. The speakers
eulogized Relief Society work and the
value of organized effort for charity.
	A substantial luncheon was served to
the congregation, between sessions by the
stake officers. 
ANNIE KAY HARDY, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Cleveland June 6,
President Mary A. Sorenson presiding.
There were present all the Relief Society
stake officers and Sisters P. Y. Beatie and
P. Smith from the General Board. Pres-
ident R. G. Miller, Bishop Oveson and a
number of other brethren were also pres-
ent.
	There was also a good attendance of
the sisters from the several wards, ten
Relief Society branches being represent-
ed. Excellent reports were given by the
respective presidents.
	Two lectures from the mothers' work
were given by Sisters McIntyre of Price
and Ruth McRae of Huntington, entitled
"Reverence" and "Girlhood."
	Brief, though very instructive, address-
es were given by Pres. Mary A. Sorenson,
Sisters Beatie and Smith, Bishop Ove-
son, President R. G. Miller, and Sisters
Maria Allen and Maria Guymon on sub-
jects relating to Relief society work.
	Sister Emelia Jones of Castledale ren-
dered a beautiful solo and the singing


[Column 1]
furnished by the Cleveland choir was ex-
cellent.
	There was an officers' meeting held
during the noon hour, where the sisters
asked questions relating to relief society
work, which were all answered by the 
visiting sisters from the General Board.
	The conference was a decided success
in every way.
	The weather was pleasant, and the 
Cleveland sisters were very sociable and 
hospitable and entertained their visiting
friends royally.	
			MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held
its first annual conference June 9th, 1905, 
Sister Annie Wells Cannon presiding. 
The eleven wards of the stake were all 
represented and the remaining session
was devoted to reports given by the pres-
ident or counselors, and remarks were
made by Stake Counselors Lucy Smith
Acomb and Rebecca H. Pettit, after which
Pres. Wm. McLachlan gave some very 
good  advice to the sisters about their
work.
	At noon the stake officers served a 
luncheon for the presidents and guests.
	The guests were President McLachlan
and wife, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. 
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenbury, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Margaret Romney, Rebecca E.
Little and Carrie S. Thomas. 
	The afternoon session was exceedingly
interesting, all the visitors making excel-
lent remarks pertaining to the work of
the Relief Society.  Sister Hyde spoke
particularly about the Relief Society em-
ployment bureau and the care of young
 women who come to the city for work.
Sister Dusenberry spoke very interest-
ingly about children and the mothers' 
work.  Sister Beatie dwelt upon the 
nurse work and the great good the Relief
Society has accomplished in that line,
Sister Wells dwelt upon the duties of the
officers, talked reminiscently of Relief
Society work in the past and gave most 
interesting information of our present
work. The other sisters also spoke inter-
estingly of our labors in a general way,
but as we desire to give as far as possible 
the remarks of our honored and much
beloved President Bathsheba W. Smith
we have curtailed the report of the other
addresses on account of space. Sister 
Smith spoke twice, first at the beginning
and then at the close of the afternoon
session and her remarks were listened to 
with rapt attention and much appre-
ciated by the sisters and brethern pres-
ent.
Sister Smith said she had left the Tem-
ple to be with us today.  This was un-
usual, but she looked forward with pleas-
ure to this meeting.  Instructed mothers
to bring up their children with a knowl-
edge of the Gospel; study the Book of 
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants.
Prayed that every sister might be blessed
in Relief Society work, and that the Spir-
it of the Lord might always be with us. 
Amen.
	At the close of our conference she ad-
dressed us again as follows:
	"I never forgot the testimony I re-
ceived when I saw the Prophet, I knew
he was looking at me and I never forgot
it, because I knew I was a good girl.

[Column 2]
He said, 'Geo- A. got the right stick
when he got her.' I was so pleased to 
think he was satisfied with his cousin's
choice.
	"I always went to meeting. I always
do now. I hardly ever miss a Sab-
bath.
	When I had my endowments Brother
Joseph was there. Sister Emma talked
to us a good deal on the subject of plural 
wives. I believe that was as true as any
principle the Prophet taught, and I be-
lieve it yet, but for the time it is taken
away from us. I don't think the Prophet
or any of our leaders ever taught us any-
thing wrong. I have always been pleased
that I had my endowments when the
Prophet lived. He taught us the true
order of prayer. I never like to hear a 
sermon without hearing something of the 
Prophet, for he gave us everything, every
order of the priesthood, and when he was 
taken away we had Brigham Young.
Many had a testimony, a strong testi-
mony of him. I remember when the 
Prophet wanted to get rid of Sidney 
Rigdon as a counselor, how Hyrum, his
brother, plead for him and Joseph kept
him, although he was ambitious and not 
true. I would like to have every one
read the Book of Mormon. The plates
are in safe keeping and some day we will
have the rest of it—it is a true record,
we can see how faithful we should be not
to lose our faith in the Gospel. I don't
know any more to say only to have all
faith in Joseph and his successors to the 
present time. I have the book of the Re-
lief Society Sister Eliza kept, and I am
very proud of it. We were taught in our 
first Relief Society to look after the 
morals of the young sisters, to be good to
the poor and needy and I think we did
so and we were good to the poor. The
sisters flocked to our meetings every
week, and the Prophet Joseph met with
us as long as he could. When he was in 
trouble the sisters got up a petition to the 
governor of the state for him and he was 
most grateful. He said he had given the 
sisters instructions that they could admin-
ister to the sick and he wanted to make
us, as the women were in Paul's day, "A
kingdom of priestesses."
	We have the ceremony in our endow-
ments as Joseph taught. Amen.
	Sister Cannon regretted there were not
more present, as we have had a great
spiritual feast. Thanked our visitors for 
the many encouraging and beautiful
things they had said. Conference ad-
journed until Dec. 9, 1905, after singing,
"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.
Benediction by Sister Pettit.
			CLARA L. CLAWSON, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE
	MORNING SESSION.—The Annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Oneida
Stake convened in the Academy, June 3, 
1905. Pres. Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Present on the stand: five members of 
the Stake Board, Clarissa S. Williams of
the General Officers, and Elizabeth S.
Wilcox a Relief Society missionary from
Salt Lake City, Counselor Jos, S. Geddes,
and High Counselor Jno. E. Dalley and
James R. McNeil.
	Singing--"Come let us anew" etc.
Prayer, James R. McNeil. Singing—
"How firm a foundation" etc. Roll called. 
Fifteen wards represented ninety-nine

[Column 3]
members present. Minutes of morning
session of conference held Nov. 26, 1904
approved. 
	Pres. Louisa B. Benson reported the
Stake as being in a satisfactory condition
Said the sisters were laboring earnestly
to care for the aged and sick, and that
the officers were much encouraged.
	Statistical and financial report read
and approved. General and Stake officers
unanimously sustained, with the follow-
ing changes in the Stake board.—Elsie
B. Alder, Sec. and Treas. having moved 
away, was honorably released with a vote
of thanks. Phebe A. M. McNeil was sus-
tained as Sec. Linda N. Benson as re-
cording Sec. and Jennie W. Rallison as 
Treas.
	Lucy Cutler sang "God bless my kind
old Mother." The following branches
were reported—Cedarville, Preston 1st
Ward, Fairview, Dayton and Preston 2nd
Ward.
	Clarissa S. Williams said, "Work dili-
gently and the Lord with hless you. Our 
Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith sends love and 
greeting. We are pleased with your re-
ports. We appreciate your efforts to at-
tend your meetings, spoke in regard to
fairs. Suggested that the sisters make 
childrens clothing and keep articles for
sale, it will be renumerative and perhaps 
interest some who are negligent and care-
less; as mothers our first duty is to our
children.
	Reports continued: Oxford, Clifton,
Franklin, Preston 3rd Ward, Weston and 
Mink Creek.
	Counselor Jos. S. Geddes said—"The
Lord is bringing to pass his purposes in
the earth. *	*	* Encourage your
husbands and sons in the performance of
duty.
	Singing "O Jesus the giver" etc. Ben-
diction Bro. Jno. E. Dalley. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing—"High
on the Mountain tops" etc. Prayer, Bish-
op Hugh S. Geddes. Singing—"O ye
mountains high" etc. Minutes of after-
noon session of previous conference ap-
proved."
	The following branches reported—
Whitney, Preston 4th Ward, Glendale
and Riverdale. Summary of all reports. 
The branches throughout the Stake in
good condition; Mother's work successful
in all excepting two places; poor, sick, 
aad aged well cared for; grain being 
stored in all wards. Sisters Lucy Cutler
and Florence Hadlock sang a duet, "Only
Remembered."
	Sister Wilcox spoke of nobility of work
in caring for the unfortunate. The intro-
duction of Mother's Work in a systematic
way proving a great blessing to all. Those
who attend duties in R. S. Work are 
strengthened for daily labor, find joy and
energy, their attendants; endorsed Sister
Williams suggestion of having ready made 
clothing on hand.
	Piano Solo, Sister Eva Johnson.
	Elder Wm. Preston of Weston Ward
spoke of the blessing the Relief Society 
is to Bishops, Asked all to become
active workers, thought we were a blessed
people. Spoke of means and energy ex-
pended in preaching the Gospel to all. 
	Clarissa S. Williams encouraged all in
daily labors. Spoke of the power of kind
words and trouble caused by harsh ones.
Said no one should accept a duty she
could not or would not fulfill. Encouraged


[Column 1]
all to read a little each day also to patron-
ize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. All church
works will broaden and strengthen the
mind.
Elizabeth Carver, Stake Pres. of Pri-
mary Association spoke of Primary work
its nobility, and necessity. Encourage
mother's co-operation in this work.
Teaching the daughters of Zion in regard
to marriage was also spoken of. 
Counselor Solomon H. Hale spoke of
woman's sphere, also of girls marrying 
men who used tobacco, liquors, etc. Lat-
ter-day Saints make good husbands and
wives. 
Pres. Louisa B. Benson made a few
closing remarks. Conference adjourned
for six months. Singing "Our God we
raise to Thee" etc. Benediction Elder
Chas. D. Gosland.
PHEBE A. M. McNeil, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Box Elder Stake met in the Brigham City
tabernacle, June 6, 1900. The morning
meeting, President Susannah P. Booth 
presiding. Present besides stake Relief
Society officers, were President Oleen N.
Stohl and Counselor Horsley, General
Board were Counselor Annie T. Hyde
and Susan Grant. Singing, "Oh, ye
mountains high." Opening prayer, Presi-
dent Oleen N. Stohl. Singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet."
Minutes of previous forenoon confernee 
read and approved. Roll called, all but
five wards represented. 
President Booth felt pleased to meet us
again in conference, said, "We will have
an officers' meeting this morning. We
are always pleased to have our sisters
from Salt Lake to meet with us, as we
were not all able to go to Salt Lake to
Relief Society conference. We shall en-
joy their presence and good counsel.
Pres. A. C. Jensen, reported Mantua;
Charlotte W. Boden reported the 2nd
ward; Sister Sarah M. Fredal, president
of Bear River City, reported; Sister 
Thompson, of Elwood, reported; Sister
Sophia Anderson reported Bothwell ward. 
Sister Mary E. Ward, president of Wil-
lard, reported. President Lydia E.
Watkins reported the Beaver ward, Pres-
ident Urania C. Nelson reported the
Thatcher ward. 
All these sisters made excellent reports
especially in reference to saving grain,
caring for the needy and the mothers'
work.
The stastical report of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society was read by Secre-
tary Annie J. Wixom.
Sister Annie T. Hyde first counselor to 
President B. W. Smith, was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to listen to the
good reports, and spoke of the unity
which existed amongst us, liked to hear
of the spiritual feelings of the sisters, said
we were like unto Christ, going about
trying to do good, thought we could not
appreciate the good the Relief Society
was to us, said we ought to have mission-
aries appointed to visit strangers who
come amongst us, to extend to them a 
helping hand, to make them feel at home. 
Spoke on her work in the bureau of in-
formation, how whenever she can she al-
ways tells of the Relief Society and the
work accomplished, and said we had thir-
ty-three thousand women in our society.

[Column 2]
We should use a kind influence in our
families, and our homes to keep them to-
gether. Said a few words on the circu-
lar letter, which was read at our Stake
conference, pertaining to the employ-
ment bureau. Spoke on the wheat prop-
osition, said we should have a proper se-
curity on the loaning of our wheat, said a 
few words in reference to our mothers'
work, said she hoped we were conducting
it under the Relief Society, thought the
stake board meeting should be held once
a month, made a few remarks on con-
ducting a bazaar. 
President Booth said a few closing
words, meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. 
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee. 
Benediction by Brother Crawford. 
2 p. m. Singing, "Redeemer of 
Israel," etc. Opening prayer by Lucius
A. Snow. Singing, "Earth with her ten
thousand flowers," etc.
Minutes of previous afternoon confer-
ence were read and accepted, roll called
of associations not represented in the
morning, three responding. 
Sophia Larson, president of East Gar-
land, Sister Snow, of West Garland, re-
ported.  Rebecca Thorn, president of
Perry, reported.
Sister Susan Grant was very pleased to
meet with us, had been edified and
blessed in the instructions and listening
to the reports. Felt it was a great priv-
ilege in mingling with the sisters in the
different stakes, had been connected with
the Relief Society for many years, Felt 
she could not give any more new instruc-
tions. But we met together to encour-
age one another, had been in the Church
all her life and knew the Prophet Joseph,
felt to testify that he was a prophet of
God. Thought it was nice for younger 
sisters to take hold and help the older
sisters in the Relief Society work. Felt
that the sisters who did not get out to
meetings needed spiritual food and the
teachers would be the ones who could go
and visit them, and thus get the spirit of 
that home; said, let us be broad in all
things, we must attend to our duties if 
we want our children to attend their duty.
"we can be guided by the Spirit of the
Lord if we don't neglect our prayers."
Related how her son was blessed while
sick by administration. "Let us be faith-
ful and true to every responsibility placed
upon us." Said a few words in regard to
the storing of grain. If we are alive to
our duties the Lord will bless us. 
A duet entitled "Mother," was sung by 
Sisters Emma and Sadie Stohl, accom-
panied by Maud Sorensen.
Sister Annie T. Hyde felt it quite a re-
sponsibility to speak to the mothers, but
prayed the Lord to give her utterance
that she might say something to the sis-
ters to encourage them. Spoke of con-
fidence in one another in our homes. Said
the Lord has promised to bless us if we 
put our trust in him, knew that our fath-
ers that have passed away to the other
side are watching over us. Spoke a few
words on criticism, said how careful we 
ought to be that our children might not
hear coarse jests or anything that is not
good for them. Took great pains in
telling strangers about the purity of our
young people. Gave many good instruc-
tions on the care of our children, encour-
aged the mothers to take part in the
mothers' work. Said Sister Smith sent

[Column 3]
her love to all the sisters and wished them
to be united. Had been interested in
the reports given; and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow had
been pleased with the teachings given 
this afternoon. Wished the sisters to
read one of the revelations in the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants referring to the
sick, wished we had faith enough to fol-
low out the instructions given in that
revelation, we must cultivate faith, he 
felt now that he could acknowledge the 
hand of God in everything that transpired
around him. Asked the Lord to bless us
with His Spirit.
Pres. Susannah P. Booth was pleased
to say that all the associations had been 
represented, if not in person by letter, as 
three of our associatsons were represented
by letter, there being 21 associations in 
all. Thanked the sisters who had come to
visit us, and who gave us such good in-
structions. Asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
Counselor Louisa E. Peters said a few
words in regard to holding our meetings. 
Conference adjourned for six months. 
Singing "Come, come ye Saints." Bene-
diction by Counselor Clem Horsely.
LETTIE FORSGREN, Cor. Sec. 
NEBO STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Nebo Stake convened in the 
Second Ward meeting-house at Payson, 
at 10:30 o'clock, July 14, 1905, president
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
After the usual opening exercises the 
President welcomed the brethren and 
sisters and expressed her regret at not 
having visitors from the General Board
present but felt that if they depended
upon the Lord they would have a good
time.
Sister Elizabeth Wall of Santaquin re-
ported the society of that ward in good
condition. Sister Mary A. Price of Gosh-
en reported the society of that ward;
Palmyra Society by President Annie C.
Holm; Sister Carrie Holt of Spanish
Fork 1st ward was glad to report that 
society. People are good to donate and 
care for the poor.
Sister Mary S. Zabriskie, Pres. of the
society in Eureka, hoped to learn to love
the people of Nebo Stake as they did 
those of the Juab Stake. We are labor-
ing under great difficulties. Have a great
many poor and try to help them in every
way we can.
Amanda Hansen of Payson 1st Ward
sang, "For Sale, A Baby."
Sister Forsey of Mammoth Ward felt
proud to report the society of that ward.
A sister reported the society of Silver
City Ward, they are a very small ward
have no teachers, but Pres. and Counsel-
ors visit once a month and try to help the
poor. 
Sister Lula Erlandson of Payson First
Ward gave a recitation. Bro. Jonathan S. 
Page, Pres. of Nebo Stake said it is the
means of gaining strength to attend the 
Relief Society conference, related an in-
cident in missionary experience. Sister
Dixon requested all to stay and have
lunch, meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock.
Afternoon session meeting reconvened
at 2 o'clock, Sister Lilyus C. Page pre-
siding.
Sister Martha D. Simons felt that it was


the greatest pleasure of her life to be as-
sociated with the Saints of God. Said the
Relief Society is one of the greatest or-
ganizations that have ever been organized.
Sister Fannie B. Simons of Payson, 2nd
ward society recited "Darkins Night."
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemons said
the Relief Society is one of the greatest
organizations we have, spoke on sustain-
ing the Priesthood and those in authority
over us in the various organizations.
	Song, "Dora Dell" by three young girls
from Payson, 2nd Ward.
	Sister Lydia Soefner just home from 
the mission field esteemed it a great priv-
ilege to be at a Relief Society conference.
believed the Lord blesses the mothers in
Zion, related a prophecy given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young regarding the moth-
ers in Zion, thought it would be the great-
est blessing to become a mother, had at-
tended the Relief Society in the mission
field, she rejoiced in the gospel more than
anything else, its system is perfect and
we should live it more strictly in our
homes, prayed for the Lord to especially
bless the mothers in Zion.
	Bro. Smith Tanner of the High Council
felt pleased to be here. Spoke of moth-
ers in Zion and molding the character of
the young.
	Bishop Jesse S. Taylor of 2nd Ward of
Payson felt very pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters and all who had taken
part, related some stories he had read
also spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and fhe organization of the Relief Society,
felt to ask the Lord to bless us all. Bishop
Justin A. Loveless of Payson 1st Ward
could not be present at the morning ses-
sion felt sorry, had enjoyed the confer-
ences in the past. Spoke on the work of 
the Sisters of the Relief Society in caring 
for the poor and sick, compared them
with the labors of the Savior. Prayed the
Lord to bless all the Relief Society work-
ers. Also spoke of the nurses class, Re-
lief Society Bureau of imployment for 
young girls who go to Salt Lake City to
work.
Sister Page said it is time to bring our
conference to a close, thought we had had
a good time today, thanked the choir and
all who had taken part. The choir sang,
"For the Strength of the Hills we bless
Thee." Benediction, Alexander Cowan.
	MARY F. BROWN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US 

[Column 2]
			IN MEMORIAM. 
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Lorine O,
Davis, who died June 15th, 1905. Sister Lorine is 
gone, those words brought sorrow to many hearts
in the little town of Toquerville; Sister Davis was
the wife of Philetus G. Davis, both were members
of this ward. Sister Davis was visiting her daugh-
ter Mrs. Lyman Dodge, of Silver City, Utah, had
been from home only a short week when the sad
news came of her death, funeral services were held
at Silver City, her casket which was beautiful was
covered with hot house flowers presented by her
many friends. The body reached her home here
on Sunday morning June 18th where a large con-
gregation assembled to pay their last tribute of re-
spect to the departed:
	The speakers were; Counselor H. Naegle, Elder 
W. H. Slack, and Bishop Wm, A. Bringhurst and 
each spoke of the many good qualities of the de-
ceased. 
	Sister Davis was born in Groveland, Mass., May
15th, 1842. Was the daughter of the late Patriarch
Samuel B. Hardy and wife of St. George, and 
came with her parents in President Wilford
Woodruff’s Co,, to Utah in 1850.
	She was a member of the Relief Society and at
the time of her death was a teacher and appraiser
in the Society; she had been a member of the Ward
choir for many years, she was the mother of 7
children, 4 of whom preceded her to the great be-
yond, three daughters with 17 grandchildren are 
left to mourn her loss; and the husband the com-
panion of her married life is left alone to receive
comfort in the thought, that in Christ all will die,
so in Christ may all be made alive. Bro. Davis,
await for time is short. Prepare to meet her in the 
land of peace and happiness.
	Be it Resolved, by the members of the Toquer-
ville Relief Society, that we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved further, that a copy of these resolutions 
together with the above tribute be printed in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and a copy be sent to P. G. 
Davis at Silver City, Utah.
					R. J. SPILSBURY, Pres.
					E. W. LAMB, Sec.


Obstetrics and Nursing.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her class in Obstetrics and
	Nursing on Monday, October 9, 1905.
For further information communicate with
	Dr. Roberts at 79 C Street, Salt
	Lake City, Utah. Telephone 2002.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


HONOR TO A VETERAN WOMAN!
	The Relief Society sisters of the Sandy
ward gathered at the home of Sister Har-
riet Wilson, in honor of her 92nd birth-
day, July 9.
	The heart of the aged veteran was
made to rejoice with the honors that
were bestowed upon her by those good
friends and neighbors; her long life has
been spent in usefulness and in activity;
she still possessse every faculty of mind
and body, having retained her excellent
eyesight so long, never wearing specta-


cles, can see to thread her needles, and
read fine print.
	Speeches were made and hymns were
sung, and there was a bounteous supply
of the good things of the earth to satisfy
all who were present and make the oc-
casion memorable. The guest of honor
pronounced the blessing upon the food,
her words were filled with inspiration. A
short sketch of her life work and her de-
votion to her religion, mentioning some
of the sacrifices she has made for the
Gospel, was given by her daughter; this
closed the happy meeting of a time long
to be remembered, the guests vieing with
each other in wishing the honored lady
joy and peace as long as she remains in
the flesh; these blessings only come
from our heavenly Father through our
obedience to His commandments. H. W.
	The EXPONENT extends loving congrat-
ulations to this dear lady whose life has
been lengthened out and whose days are
full of peace and gladness.


MARY A. LIVERMORE.
			(Continued.)
	"Mrs. Livermore was well-born, her
parents were happily mated. At family
prayers at night and morning her father
always prayed, "Bless the united heads
of this family."
	Mrs. Livermore read the Bible through
every year from the age of seven until she
was 23 years old, and remembered it so
well that she was called, "The Family
Concordance."
	In her very early years she developed
a gift for reading and composition, and
before she was ten had written anniver-
sary hymns and children's stories that
were published.
	In her childish play she would conduct
church services, sometimes arranging
sticks of wood in the woodhouse to repre-
sent a congregation, and preach to them
by the hour, till she was faint with
emotion. Her father is quoted as saying
"If that girl were only a boy I would ed-
ucate her for the ministry, she has it in
her."
	Her father did not foresee that she
 would yet speak to larger audiences than
could be reached from any single church,
and on a much greater variety of subjects
than are usually given from the pulpit.
	Mrs. Livermore as a child suffered
much from the stern Calvinistic theories;
the belief that the majority of mankind
were destined to everlasting damnation
cost her days and nights of tears. As
Lucy Stone first studied Greek and Latin
to find out whether the texts on the sub-
jection of wives were correctly translated,
so Mrs. Livermore first studied languages
to search into the correctness of passages
on eternal damnation. She finally de-
cided in her own mind that this doctrine
was not taught in the Bible, and this gave
her peace, but it was long afterwards. 
The death of a dear sister about whose
salvation doubts were expressed, brought
her distress to a crisis.
	(Cantinued in next Number.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34 SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1905. No. 4


CONTENTS.
The Power of Love....................................Ina	17
Mary A. Livermore.........................................	18
Uintah Stake.............................P. A. Merkley	18
Expressions Made on the Side..........A. W. C.	19
Memorial Meeting..........................................	19
Woodruff Stake...........................Kate Eppich	19
In Memoriam................................................22 &	23
R. S. Reports, Cassia, Alberta and Alpine
	Stakes....................................................23 &	24
Good Words.............Editor Woman’s Tribune	24
Should We Not Have a Woman’s Day............	14
EDITORIAL:—General	Conference Relief
	Society—The Theory of Organization—
	—Editorial Notes....................................	20
Truly a Mother in Israel..........................21, 22, &	23
POETRY:—The Grave of Paul Revere..L.D.A.	17
	Pictures......................Grace Ingles Frost	19


THE GRAVE OF PAUL REVERE.
Beside the hallowed spot I stand—
The grave of Paul Revere;
And mem'ries of that patriot grand,
Speak loud while musing here.

The famous tale our hist'ry tells,
Of how he rode away;
From house to house, then clanged the bells,
That sound o'er Boston Bay.

The daring ride of Paul Revere,
And what his tidings wrought;
A nation drops for him a tear—
They bless the freedom bought.

He rests, while millions laud his fame,
Here, 'neath the dark gray stone;
And stern new England, breathes his name,
With heroes, all her own.

These emblems, solemn thoughts inspire,
Of liberty, blood bought;
The cannon's roar, the musket's fire,
The vict'ry eager sought.

This stone ne'er holds his praises down,
Though he sleeps deep below.
And o'er the road of pebbles brow[-],
In fancy oft I go.

New England holds his sacred dust,
She gives her hero sleep;
A grateful nation holds in trust,
The land they died to keep,

Ye patriots of New England soil,
O, ye were patriots grand;
The sons of hardship and of toil,
Whose lives gave us our land.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
Boston, May, 1905.


[Column 1]
	THE POWER OF LOVE.
			BY INA.
	Goethe cried, “More light—more 
light!” Tolstoi, “More love—more love!”
The question has been asked, which is
the greatest desire? Both are noble, but
today the latter cry should be echoed
most strenuously. People seem to be
losing sight of the fact that love is the 
greatest power that governs the uni-
verse.
	Years ago it was considered sin for
woman to give her hand in marriage
unless the sincere love of her heart ac-
companied it. The result was a happy
life. If children were given to them,
they were considered gifts from the Most
High, and were welcomed and loved;
while in turn the children loved and re-
vered their parents. Today, when a girl
thinks of marriage, as a rule, the question

[Column 2]
of position is of far more importance than
that of love.
	Not only is this a fault of woman, man
also thinks of position in choosing a life
partner. He crushes love from his heart
for some rich papa’s money; while she
spurns many a loyal, loving heart for 
a “gilded cage.” As in the case of those
who marry for love, the result is plainly
seen, being most apparent in the chil-
dren. If there are no children, one need
only look at the “divorce mill” to behold
the result of loveless marriage.
	It has been noticed and commented
upon, that of late there are so many
children who seem to possess very little 
affection. One instinctively thinks of the 
words of the Apostle Paul, who said that
there should come a time when some 
would “be lovers of their ownselves, with-
out natural affection, and disobedient to 
parents,” etc. And one feels, though the 
Apostle denounced such so emphatically,
that they are to be pitied, for it is not 
wholly their fault.
	Can a child possess a loving disposition
when no thought of love entered the
mind of the man and woman who gave it
a body?
	Mayhap it was given existence unwit-
tingly, and consequently received a very 
cold reception upon its advent, having for
a father one who despises children, and
for a mother one who cares so little con-
cerning its welfare that she refuses to 
nourish it at her breast, lest she spoil her
figure.
	Need one again ask why children are
without natural affection; why the old-
fashioned epithets, “my dear father and
mother,” are so seldom heard, while the
unloving substitutes—“the old woman”
and “the governor” are so frequently
used.
	Women are beginning to feel, even
among our own people, that children are 
a burden which they are disinclined to
assume, or that it is not fashionable to
have them. Society women claim that
children make them nervous. One often
hears such expressions as the following:
“There are too many children in the
world already,” and “Children are such
little nuisances. One cannot fulfil the 
duty which one owes to society if one
has several cross babies at home who re-
quire attention,
	It is quite evident that such persons
forget that they also owe a duty to their
heavenly Father. Has God given a later
command regarding children than the
one which He gave to our first parents?
No. This commandment is as binding 
today as it was in times past. And if 
one loves the Lord with all his soul,
heart and mind, he will keep His com-
mandments. Still it is hard to say which
is the greater sin, to refuse to give spirits
tabernacles of flesh, or to bring children
here under the conditions that some chil-
dren are brought.
	Ah, mothers, mothers! see to it that 
your children are born willingly, and in
the full power of love.
	When you find that a little stranger is

[Column 3]
to enter your home prepare yourselves
in every way possible to influence your
child for good before its birth as well as
to train it in the way of the Lord after.
	First. Let there be no feelings of re-
sentment or misunderstanding between 
yourself and the one you call your hus-
band. Seek all things of an elevating
nature—music, literature and art.*
	Books of a soothing nature and those 
of a religious character, as well as bio-
graphies of the great and good people of
earth, should be read; but the sensa-
tional novel should be avoided as if it 
were a pest.
	When bowing in supplication, thank
God for conferring maternity upon you,
and ask Him to help you to live in a 
manner that shall be the means of giv-
ing to the spirit which he is about to 
consign to your keeping, not only a per-
fect body, but a perfect disposition.
	That a child’s disposition is greatly in-
fluenced by a woman’s personal thoughts
and feelings many mothers have proven.
It is, of course, much easier for a woman
who is richly endowed with this world’s
goods to prepare herself for motherhood,
as presented in this article, than for one
who is forced to do the work of the house
and care for the children. Take heart,
you who are over-burdened. Through
prayer all things can be accomplished. 
Remember—

“Its easy enough to be pleasant,
When life flows by like a song,
But the woman worth while is the one who will
	smile
When everything goes wrong.
For the test of the heart is trouble,
And it always comes with years,
The smile that is worth the praise of earth,
Is the smile that shines through tears.”

	After baby comes, do not be afraid to
show your love for the little creature.
Never mind if some people do say that it
is not right to kiss them. True, to kiss
a child upon the mouth is not wise;
but kiss its hands, its brow, and cheeks.
Not long since a baby, whose mother did 
not believe in kissing it, was kissed by 
one who does believe in so doing. It
became frightened upon being caressed,
and cried; but the party who caused the 
disturbance quieted it, then kissed it
many, many times, and finally its sweet
face dimpled with smiles.
	Another thing that parents do which 
does not inspire love in their children for 
themselves or God, is that they raise 
them with the idea of resisting evil on ac-
count of a fear of punishment. 
	It is true that parents are sometimes
compelled to resort to corporal punish-
ment, but were mothers and fathers to 
inspire their children with the idea of re-
sisting evil because by so doing they
would gain their love and also the love

	*Michael Angelo’s mother went every day, be-
fore he was born, to one of Italy’s great cathe-
drals, where hung many paintings by the masters.
	The pictures which impres[-]ed Michael An-
gelo’s mother most were—“The Annunciation,”
“Mary’s Visit to Elizabeth,” and “The Babe in 
the Manger.” Michael was most fond of and ex-
celled when painting religious subjects.


and approbation of their heavenly Fath-
er, they would be able to "spare the
rod;" and also inculcate a greater spirit
of love in the child's heart.
	Children should be taught to love God
from the time they know what like and
dislike mean, to love virtue for its own
sake and not because they fear either
their heavenly Father or their earthly
parents.
	Is it not better to keep God's com-
mandments because of love for Him than
to keep them because we fear Him?
	God is a God of love, not hate. His is
the spirit of meekness, gentleness, long-
suffering, faith and love.
	This, then, is the spirit that should be
inculcated in our children, or we shall
never come to the perfection that Christ
spoke of—"loving our neighbor as our-
selves." Also "loving our enemies and
praying for those who despitefully use
us."
	His, our Elder Brother's, life was an
example of the divine love of the Fath-
er, who so loved the world that He gave
His well-beloved Son to be a sacrifice for
sin, that we might obtain eternal life.
	Let us teach the youth of Zion, not
only to "fear God and keep his com-
mandments," but to love Him and keep
them; teaching them to look to the Most
High as their Father in very deed—one
to whom they can carry all their trouble
and He will love and help them; all sin,
and He will listen; and if they will truly
repent, will forgive and help them to trav-
el the "straight and narrow way."
	A father to be feared when insulted!
Yes. But rather to be loved. In raising
our children thus, we shall increase, not
destroy, that great power which should
fill every human heart for all humanity,
as well as for God, and one's own house-
hold; and thereby build up a universal
brotherhood between the sons and daugh-
ters of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MARY A. LIVERMORE.
			(Concluded.)
	About this time she was invited to go
as governess to a family on a plantation
in Virginia; and she says, “I determined
to go and battle with myself alone and if
I could not conquer the doubts and fears
that overshadowed my life, I would like
the camel, struggle mutely with the
heaviest load, and, like the wolf die in
silence.”
	Her father disapproved of her going
and said, “Do you know that you are run-
ning away from home like a boy?” But
she went and stayed three years, there
were on the estate between four and five
hundred slaves, she came home to the
North a radical Abolitionist.
	The next three years she taught a
school of her own in Duxbury, Mass., it
was in reality the high school of the
town; meantime she was doing temper-
ance work in various ways, and besides
writing juvenile articles on the editorial
staff of a temperance paper, she organi-
zed a Cold Water Army of 1500 boys and
girls.
	While in Duxbury she strayed into
a Universalist Church and was at once
interested in the sermon, and was led
ultimately through this young minister’s
teachings to become a Universalist.

[Column 2]
	 When she went home for vacation she
told her old pastor and he said, “You will
be marrying this young minister one of
these days and bring down upon yourself
the ostracism of your friends.”
	In 1845 she married the very man, the
Rev. Daniel Parker Livermore, she says,
“I was surprised at the fury of the storm
that burst upon me, friends forsook me,
acquaintances ostracized me, I was dis-
approved for the church and my father
was for a time inconsolable. My mother
alone congratulated me on my marriage.
The tastes, habits and aims of the young
couple were similar and Mrs. Livermore
drifted into literary work. She wrote
hymns and songs and stories, sketches
and poems for The Galaxy, Ladies Re-
pository, New York Tribune and National
Era, and two prize stories, one for a
church publishing house which had a
large circulation was republished in Eng-
land and was translated into several lan-
guages, it elucidated a phase of religious
belief and was entitled “A Mental Trans-
formation.”
	It is impossible to tell in one short
sketch  of this great woman’s life the
work she has done along many lines,
temperance, anti-slavery, woman’s rights
and in benevolent and philanthopic
movements.
	In 1857, the Livermores joined a colony
going out to Kansas, where they had a
taste of frontier life, but finally decided
to settle in Chicago, Mr. Livermore be-
came editor and proprietor of a weekly
paper and Mrs. Livermore was associate
editor. For the next twelve years her
labors were Herculean. She wrote for
every department of the paper, and in her
husband’s absence from home she had the
entire establishment, paper, printing office
and publishing house; continued writing
for Eastern periodicals and for the Home
for the Friendless and assisted in the es-
tablishment of a Home for aged women
and a Hospital for women and children
and was actively identified with the city
charity. She was at this time her own
housekeeper directing servants, supervis-
ing the education and training of her
children and exercising a large hospitality.
	In 1860 at the first nomination of Abra-
ham Lincoln in the Chicago Wigwam,
she was the only woman reporter assign-
ed a place among more than a hundred
men reporters.
	“The great uprising among men at the
opening of the civil war, in 1861, was
paralleled by a similar uprising among
women, and in a few months there were
hundreds of women’s organizations form-
ed throughout the North, for the relief of
sick and wounded soldiers and the care
of the soldiers’ families. Mrs. Livermore
became the head and heart of a large
part of this work.
	“Out of the chaos of benevolent efforts
evolved by the times, the United States
Sanitary Commission was born. Mrs.
Livermore, with her friend, Mrs. Jane C.
Hoge, had been identified with relief
work for the soldiers from the beginning,
and at the instance of Rev. Dr. Henry
W. Bellows, President of the Commission,
they were elected associate members of
the United States Sanitary Commission
with their headquarters in Chicago, and
the two friends worked together till the
end of the war. Mrs. Livermore resigned
all positions save that on her husband’s
paper, secured a governess for her chil-

[Column 3]
dren, and subordinated all demands upon
her time to those of the Commission.
She organized Soldiers’ Aid Societies;
delivered public addresses to stimulate
supplies and donations of money in the
principal towns and cities of the North-
west; wrote letters by hundreds, person-
ally and by amanuenses, and answered
all that she received; wrote the circulars,
bulletins and monthly reports of the
Commission; made trips to the front with
sanitary stores, and gave her personal at-
tention to their distribution; brought back
large numbers of invalid soldiers, and ac-
companied them, in person, or by proxy,
to their homes; assisted to plan, originate
and conduct colossal Sanitary Fairs, and
wrote a history of them at their close; de-
tailed women nurses for the hospitals, by
order of Secretary Stanton, and accomp-
anied them to their posts. The story of
women’s work during the war has never
been told, and can never be understood
save by those connected with it. It is
hard for the younger generation to realize
the vast amount that Mrs. Livermore ac-
complished by her immense abilities and
indomitable power to work. The old sol-
diers adored her, and she was flooded
with testimonials and souvenirs from
them, which she valued highly. She
published her reminiscences of those cru-
cial days in a large volume, of thrilling
and graphic interest, entitled, “My Story
of the War” (Hartford, Conn., 1888),
which reached a sale of between fifty
thousand and sixty thousand copies.”

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 36th Relief Society Confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at Jen-
sen Ward Aug. 24, 1905. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding, Pres. Colton in her
opening remarks said the reason we
are holding conference in the different
wards is to get more acquainted with our
sisters and to give those that are not able
to travel a chance to attend conference,
she reported the Stake in a fair way to
progress.
	Recitation Sister Zina Dudley, Jensen
Ward, song Sister Eden Powell, Naples,
Reports from presidents Vernal and
Naples Wards, Lecture Sister Kate Cal-
der, Vernal, report in writing from Mt.
Dell as it was too far for them to attend.
Essay written by Zola S. Calwell, Mt.
Dell and read by the sec’y Phebe A.
Merkley.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
Singing, Now let us rejoice, Benediction,
Sister Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon Session: Pres. Sarah M.
Colton presiding, singing and prayer and
other usual exercises.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett was pleased to
meet with the sisters once more.
	Sister Abigail Oakes read a lecture from
the EXPONENT then commented upon it.
	Pres. Colton said we had, had a great
deal of good advice if we will only live
up to it, advised the mothers to do all
that was possible against the use of bad
language.
	Next Conference to be held at Mt. Dell
closed with singing, benediction.
	Sisters A. K. Bartlett, Abbie Goodrich,
Minnie Davis were chosen as assistants
in the Uintah Stake Relief Society at the
last quarterly conference of the Stake.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PICTURES.
	BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
TWILIGHT, UTAH.
Shadows are slowly creeping,
O'er valley and mountain height;
And flowers that bloom when the day is done-
Night lilies, yellow and white, 
Nod their fair heads in the gathering gloom, 
And perfume the air with their fragrant breath, 
To welcome a silvery moon.

		NIGHT. (OREGON.)

Mountains! the grandest that God ever made!
Shrouded in snow and with moon-light bathed, 
Millions stars, set in azure sky, 
Looking down from their home so high;
Lowing of cattle astray on the hills,
The solemn tolling of convent bells,
Forests of stately old fir tree,
A river winding its way to the sea,
A distant city's glimmering light,
Reigning o'er all,-a queen-the Night.


EXPRESSIONS MADE ON THE SIDE.
	"It isn't the big things, its the pin
pricks that hurt," a neighbor said to me
one day referring to a small slight she
fancied she had received, and there's 
some philosophy in the small quotation
after all. If people would only try to
guard against offering the little hateful re-
marks that are not exactly meant to
hurt but wound the feelings nevertheless,
surely all would be better.
Some people pride themselves on being 
extremely frank and telling just what they
think, and they call this frankness a vir-
tue, but frequently these plain spoken
people wound the feelings of their friends
most unnecessarily. Is it always wise to
speak one's thoughts, even if they are the
truth. If you meet a friend in an unbe-
coming gown or hat, is it a kindness to
tell her of it? If she has a careworn,
troubled look, does it help her to say,
"My, how bad you look today!" Does
 it profit any one to pick out the faults and
failings of his neighbor and tell him of 
them? Far better pass them by unnoticed
unless in some kind way good may be ac-
complished, by quietly speaking of them.
Frankness, like other qualities, may be
misused.
	"I always was against the Relief Soci-
ety, but now they are going to do some-
thing in mother's work, I think there may
be some good in it."
	Fancy the feelings of a a regular Re-
lief Society worker who knew all the his-
tory of that great organization, when at an 
evening party she heard a young woman,
born and raised in Utah, make that re-
mark! She would have been too angry to
remain in the room only she felt, that
such a remark was made by one wholly
ignorant of what she was trying to talk
about, and out of respect for her hostess
did not even resent it, but she wondered
if there were many young women in our 
midst who felt like that, and she herself
thought of that noble band of women
working always for the betterment and re-
lief of others without thought of self. She
thought of the women sitting up night
after night with the sick; of the women
going into the homes where death had
come and performing the last necessary
labor before the burial; of the women taking
baskets laden with good and necessary
things into the homes where want had
come; oh, if such thoughtless speakers 
would only pause and think of the great


and good labors of the Relief Society
workers they would see that true moth-
ers' work had always been uppermost in
their thoughts, and their deeds of kind-
ness and of love were as numerous and 
uncountable as the sands on the seashore. 
						A. W. C.


MEMORIAL MEETING.
BEAVER RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The two branches of the Relief Society
of Beaver City met conjointly Monday
afternoon, May 28th, in honor of the
memory of Sister M. Isabella Horne,
who died in Salt Lake City on the 25th
inst.
	There were present Sister P. T. Farns-
worth, from Salt Lake, and Sister Ida
Hunt Udall, of St. John’s, Arizona.
	Sister M. L. Shepherd, president of the
Beaver Stake, opened the meeting with a
few remarks befitting the occasion.
	Sister Farnsworth was the principal
speaker, and after speaking at some
length on the beautiful life and sterling
worth of our departed sister, referred to
the special mission to which she had been
called by President Brigham Young,
viz., the awakening of the sisters to a
fuller sense of their duties, both as wives
and mothers. She made special mention
of the desire of President B. W. Smith to
have the Relief Society everywhere, dili-
gent in storing grain and several minor
details in connection with Relief Society
work.
	Sister Udall occupied a short time.
She explained that in Arizona where she
resides, the people are very scattered and
the sisters are not able to meet often and
consequently they could not accomplish
as much as in the more thickly settled
parts.
	Sister Maeser read the biography of
Sister Horne, Mrs. P. Farnsworth report-
ed the Frisco branch of the Relief Society.
She said they had only held two meet-
ings since the society was organized there
and that the sisters had not accomplished
much as yet.
	Among the other speakers were: Sis-
ter Johnson of Adamsville; Sister Good-
win, president of the west ward, and Sis-
ter Bickley, president of the east ward;
Relief Soeiety, Stake Counselor M. A.
White; Harriet Fotheringham, a niece of
Sister M. I. Horne; Sister Levi, Sister
Annie Frazer, Sister Robinson, Sister
Reese of Beaver, and Sister Pierce of
Adamsville.
	All the sisters spoke with much feeling.
Many of them were acquainted with Sis-
ter Horne, and their remarks were rem-
iniscent of her well-spent life.
	Our meeting will long be remembered
by all who were present.
	The congregation sang, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet."
	Benediction by Sister Frances Jones.
				M.W. FRAZER, Sec.


Mme. Sarah Bernhardt's name has
been proposed by the minister of public
instruction and fine arts of France for the
Cross of Knight of the Legion of Honor.
The grand chancery of the order, with
which the final decision rests, is now
considering the list of nominations.


WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of the Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
30th, 1905. Present of the General Board
Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Susan
Grant with stake President S. Tyson and
counselor Hannah Telford and secretary
Katie Eppich.
	After the opening exercises stake Pres-
ident Tyson made some remarks. Re-
ports were called from different wards;
thirteen were given, all were in good run-
ning order. 
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson spoke of
family prayers in the home and the great
privileges and blessings we enjoy by liv-
ing up to our duties; in training our chil-
dren and being ministering angels to the
cast down and those who are in trouble.
Urged the Presidents and their helps to
love one another and be united in their
efforts. Spoke of the evil of fault finding.
	Sister Susan Grant’s remarks were very
encouraging and elevating. She exhort-
ed the sisters to seek the Lord in prosp-
erity as well as adversity and live near
unto him. Delivered a message of love
from our aged President, Bathsheba. W.
Smith and General Secretary E. B. Wells,
encouraged the Mother’s work and re-
ferred to the good derived therefrom and
of the good we do our offspring in study-
ing the same.
	Stake Counselor Hannah Telford spoke
of her experience in attending the duties
assigned her. Brother George here made
some grand remarks of comfort and en-
couragement to the sisters.
	President Tyson felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us; spoke of early
days and her experience; urged the sisters
to be patient. Closed by singing and
benediction. 
	Afternoon session, President S. Tyson
presiding. After the usual exercises Sis-
ter Susan Grant of the General Board
spoke to the young sisters and encouraged
them to join the Relief Society and learn
all they could in regard to becoming good
wives and mothers; said there was every-
thing to inspire us on to good works and
living our religion, spoke at length on the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings re-
ceived in living up to it, and of culti-
vating the gift of faith. Felt thankful
for her experience in the Church.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson urged upon the
mothers to attend Relief Society and get
intelligence and to care for the needy;
keep ourselves pure that the spirit of the
Lord might dwell among us, and spoke
of the condition of those who do not keep
the commandments of the Lord and of
the blessings we should receive in living
up to our privileges; of the power of faith
in the Lord; urged the parents to have
their children attend the local organiza-
tions and encouraged the Mothers’ work.
Bishop S. Brough endorsed the remarks
of previous speakers, encouraged parents
to win the confidence of their sons and
daughters; alluded to the grand mission
of motherhood. Sister E. J. Stevenson
said as she was a temple worker, she felt
her mission would not be complete with-
out speaking a word for the dead. Urged
the sisters to do the work for their dead
as fast as they could.
	President S. Tyson made a few clos-
ing remarks and felt that we had had a
grand time. Conference adjourned after
singing and benediction.
			KATIE EPPICH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
			
			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

		Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
		Address all business communications to
							Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
								SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		SEPTEMBER, 1905


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Semi-Annual Conference
of the Relief Society will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city on
Thursday, Oct. 5, 1905. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. as usual.
There will be another session of the Con-
ference held on Monday, Oct. 9 at 2 p.m.
in the same place.
	It is hoped there will be a representative
from every Stake organization of the
Society and a large attendance of the
members.
	The First Presidency of the Church,
Apostles, Patriarchs, Council of Seventy,
Bishops and other brethren, also the
sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
are invited to attend the Conference.
	(Notice of Officers meeting will be given
later).
	The General Board of the Relief So-
ciety will give a reception to the Presi-
dents of Stakes and missions or their
representatives at the Bee Hive House,
Thursday evening, Oct. 5 from 7:30 to 11
o'clock. General Officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Association are in-
vited to attend this reception.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
				ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
							Counselors.


[Column 1]
THE THEORY OF ORGANIZATION.
	The spirit of organization has been
hovering around the earth ever since the
days of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
the restoration of the Gospel. One only
has to go to the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and read the revelation there
given at a very early date in Kirtland,
April 23, 1834 concerning the order to be
observed in temporal matters, as well as
spiritual, and strange to say these theories
concerning union and so forth have been
fermenting in the minds of people, and
peoples more and more; unions here and
unions there failures too in one way or
another generally, and nationalism and
internationalism taught and talked about,
federations of this and federations of that
and co-operation on large and small
scales in many countries. Then the
efforts made for peace and arbitration all
tend in the same direction towards uni-
versal feeling and brotherhood, and unit-
ing of interests, but how far off the world
is from the culmination of these spasmodic

[Column 2]
efforts one who looks below the surface
of things can easily see.
	Even among our own people the Lat-
ter-day Saints who believe implicitly in
co-operation and the United Order as
given by revelation in the early days of
the Church, are far removed from the
actual practice except in a very small
way, and yet in theory they have the
very best ideas in the world.
	A number of books have been written
on these subjects and scores of magazine
articles, but the one book that seemed
most widely read at the time of its publi-
cation and caused the greatest awaken-
ing on the subject was Edward Bellamy’s.
“Looking Backward.” It set forth a sort
of impracticable “fad,” that people talked
of for some years, and which we never
hear spoken of now; but the revelations
of Joseph Smith the Prophet of the last
days, are perfect in theory, though even
the people of the Church who should be
most interested in trying to live up to the
higher law, or to approach a condition
tending towards it console themselves by
saying, “People are not good enough
yet,” and that is undoubtedly true, but
that is not an excuse that should hinder
those who believe in the great power of
love to all mankind from making a su-
preme effort towards living up to the
Savior’s injunction, “Love your neighbor
as yourself,” or from practising the Gold-
en rule “To do to others as you would
they should do unto you.”
	These are given us for all time and
times, and are every day mottoes for our
life conduct.
	A book recently written and published
on the matter of union, etc., is by Ray-
mond L. Bridgeman and entitled “World
Organization,” the ideas are said by re-
viewers to be as old as the New Tes-
tament. The book generalizes on the
idea of the unification of the nations of
the world in one legislative, judicial and
executive body. The author maintains
that “the formal endorsement of the
principle of world legislation has been
practically recognized by the organization
of the International Postal Union, the
establishment of a common prime merid-
ian, sanitary conferences, the Red Cross
Society and various other world-wide leg-
islation.” Mr. Bridgeman points out “the
urgent demand and possibility of world
legislature” and “lays down some broad
principles which will be essentially de-
clared in the world constitution and bill
of rights.”
	That, “the world moves” along many
lines of activity and of thought is very ap-
parent to those who are watching the
signs of the times. And in this connection
one vividly recalls the prophetic words of
Tennyson.
“Till the war drums throb’d no longer and the
	battle-flags are furled.
In the parliament of man, the federation of the
	world.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held
the regular meeting Tuesday, May 16 in
the EXPONENT Office, Templeton Build-
ing: in the absence of the Regent and
Vice Regents, Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears
by special request presided. After the
transaction of some business, an excellent
paper on Gen. Ethan Allen was given


by Mrs. Diana F. Rich, after comments
by the members and some regrets ex-
pressed that the paper on Gen. Mercer
was not ready, the society adjourned for
the summer vacation.
	On June 10, the annual meeting for the
election of officers for the ensuing year
was held and after interesting reports of
the year’s work from all of the retiring
officers, the annual election was held and
resulted in the election of Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon, Regent; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
and Miss Catherine Wells, Vice Regents;
Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer, Secretary; Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey, Cor. Sec’y; Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Ass’t Sec’y; Mrs.
Sarah F. Smith, Treasurer; Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall, Registrar; Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Historian; Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chap-
lain. The Regent expressed her desire
to do all in her power to promote the
spirit of patriotism and make the year’s
work successful.
	Saturday, Sept. 16 at 3 p. m. the D. R.
Society held its first meeting after the
vacation, Regent Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-
non presiding. After a brief address in
which she expressed her appreciation of
the honor conferred and her desire to do
her utmost to increase the membership
and give satisfaction in the position to
which she had been elected, the minutes
of the May meeting were read and ap-
proved and as the Treasurer who had been
chosen could not accept the position, Mrs.
Mary E. R. Webber was elected by unan-
imous vote. A very excellent and interest-
ing paper was given by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth on the life and military ca-
reer of Gen. Stark- quite a number of
comments were made, Mrs. B. W. Smith
stated a member of the Smith family
Mrs. Zilpha Stark Smith was a grand-
daughter of Gen. Stark. The other paper
on Dr. Joseph Warren could not be given,
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatic being absent in
Mexico. Society adjourned until Oct. 16
same hour and place.


TRULY A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
	It is always painful to record the death
of those we love, and especially those
whose lives have been waymarks for
others to follow; and whose associations
have been so closely mingled and inter-
twined with those they have left behind
them through many long years; all these
sentiments make the feeling of sadness
more profound, and it is the more diffi-
cult to write what the heart would dic-
tate.
	Of the honored veteran women of the
Church it has fallen to the lot of the
writer not only to write biographies of
them while living, but to prepare obitu-
ary notices for a very large number. We
recall a score and more of these noted
women who knew the prophet Joseph
Smith, and who were counted among
those greater women of the early days of
the Church; but only a very few remain
with us now.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne was one of
the early converts to the faith of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and it was her good for-
tune to entertain the Prophet in her own
home in Canada, in the autumn of 1836;
the Prophet Joseph Smith was accom-


[Column 1]
panied on that journey by Sidney Rigdon
and Thomas B. Marsh, and she was so
overjoyed at that time that she said to
herself, “O Lord, I thank thee for grant-
ing the desire of my girlish heart in per-
mitting me to associate with prophets and
apostles.” This religious expression
shows her devotional nature even in her
young life.
	The Prophet was also a guest in Broth-
er and Sister Horne’s home in Quincy,
Illinois in 1839, where they had remained
temporarily after being driven from their
home in Missouri, whither they went
from Canada in March, 1838; subse-
quently they settled in Nauvoo, where
they became quite prosperous; but like
many other Latter-day Saints they were
not privileged to remain there long; they
left in the dead of winter in February,
1846, with a family of small children, en-
during all sorts of hardships upon that
long and tedious journey to the Missouri
river, where the Saints camped for the
winter, and where in consequence of
hardships, privation and actual want,
many suffered and died. Brother Horne’s
family were sorely afflicted, but the Lord
in His tender mercy spared their lives,
and they were able to come in the first
company of Saints that left Winters
Quarters after the pioneers, traveling
with Apostle John Taylor’s company and
arriving in the valley among the foremost
of that famous company of pioneers, who
built the “Old Fort,” and plowed and
planted, etc., and who subsequently
fought the crickets, and whose names
have been recorded as heroes and hero-
ines to endure for all time.
	The subject of this sketch was born in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818,
her parents were Stephen and Mary Ann
Hales, in her childhood her father and
mother came to Canada and settled in
the town of York, now Toronto; so it
will be seen she commenced traveling
when only thirteen; it was there in Cana-
da she met Joseph Horne, to whom she
was married May 9, 1836; this union
proved a lasting one, and together they
have encountered the storms and battles
of a long and eventful life. On May 9,
1886, they celebrated their golden wed-
ding, and ten years after. May 9, 1896,
they also celebrated the sixtieth anniver-
sary of their marriage. Sister Horne has
been the mother of fifteen children, and
what is rather remarkable three pairs of
twins were among the number. Seven of
her children are living, eight having passed
to the other side, three of them were
married at the time of their decease, of
the others, her first children, were twins,
one died a babe, the other lived to be
three years old. Elizabeth, the wife of
Edward Webb the eldest daughter, left
four children. Julia, wife of Wm. Burton,
another daughter died after giving birth
to a little girl that lived eleven months;
and her youngest son John, who married
Sophronia Spencer, left a family of little
ones, three in number. Sister Horne had
at the time of her decease 102 grandchil-
dren, 70 great-grandchildren and 2 great-
great-grandchildren. Her good name will
be perpetuated to the latest generation,
for her noble works, her kindly deeds, her
brilliant example of heroism and upright-
ness, and devotion to the truth as re-
vealed in this last dispensation.
	As a mother and homemaker Sister
Horne has always stood in the front rank,

[Column 2]
her example in this regard has been
quoted throughout the Church, and it was
undoubtedly her well-known ability in the
management of her own household, that
caused President Brigham Young to call
her to stand at the head of the Retrench-
ment Associations when they were first
organized in 1869. She had previously
manifested also good executive ability in
taking charge of the Relief Society in the
14th ward, where she resided, and of
which she was President until called to
preside over the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake. She possessed not only
practical ability and excellent judgement,
but was also eminently spiritual, which
rare combination of gifts fitted her for a
leader among her sex. She manifested
great wisdom in dealing with affairs that
required unusual ability. Her integrity
to the truth was unquestioned, she was
one to lean upon at all times and in all
places, her great strength of mind and
force of character gave her influence
wherever she was called to act, and
added prestige to whatever position she
occupied, whether in the home or in any
public place or enterprise.
	The positions she filled were many and
varied, for whatever work was undertaken
by the women of Zion, Sister Horne was
always prominent and efficient. It can
truthfully be said of her, she was one of
the founders of the commonwealth one of
the first to secure a permanent home,
that was always open to hospitality, a
gathering place for the young people and
for the brethren and sisters, friends,
neighbors and acquaintances of Brother
and Sister Horne; and they were numer-
ous and included the best men and wom-
en in Zion. Brother Horne was a
staunch Latter-day Saint and a stalwart
among men. It can truly be said of them,
“Her husband was known in the gates
when he sat among the Elders of the
Lord.”
	Many seasons of festivity and genuine
pleasure will be recalled now by those
who participated in the enjoyment of
these social entertainments, at the Horne
home in the 14th ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Horne’s great knowledge of the
Bible and the Book of Mormon, as well
as other standard Church works, and her
own experiences in life, from the early
days of the Church, mingling with the
best of noble men and women, made her
exceedingly entertaining and instructive
in conversation, and caused her to be
sought after by old and young, who were
desirous of true knowledge and reliable
information.
	Sister Horne was a member of the
first Relief Society organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph Smith (although
she was not present at the first meeting)
but became a member soon after. As
soon as the sisters could do so after
coming to the valley, Relief Society or-
ganizations were effected, and from that
period up to the time of her last illness,
Sister Horne has labored incessantly in
the Relief Society, not only as an officer
but a diligent, faithful worker. Sister
Horne was for several years a member
of the “People’s Party,” and was ever
and always an ardent advocate of wo-
man’s rights and of equal suffrage for men
and women. She was truly patriotic in
all that pertained to her country, and
in building up the territory; she had en-
dured the privations and hardships inci-

[Column 3]
dent to the settlement of these valleys,
and felt intensely the need of a place
where liberty and freedom of conscience
could be exercised under just and equit-
able laws; and she was always ready to
stand firm and steadfast to maintain the
sacred principles vouchsafed in the Con-
stitution of our glorious country; and
she rejoiced when Utah became a free
and sovereign state, electing its governor
from among its own citizens, and in
having equal suffrage restored to the wo-
men of Utah in the state constitution.
	Sister Horne was for many years vice-
president of the Deseret Silk Association
for Utah, and one of the charter mem-
bers of the Deseret Hospital for more
than twelve years, from the beginning to
the close of the institution was chairman
of the executive committee; her labors in
that institution were laborious, and re-
quired considerable precious time, but
her economy and wisdom were a great
help in the Hospital.
	Sister Horne was chosen to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
stake December 22, 1877, and held that
position until the stake was divided in 
1904. At the organization of the General
Relief Society she was chosen treasurer,
and when the society was incorporated in
1892, was one of the charter members. She
served as treasurer of the society twenty-
one years.
	I think we can say, no woman in the
Church was more highly esteemed and
reverenced for good works and leadership
than Sister Horne, whose loss the sisters
feel most keenly. She presided over the
semi-monthly meetings in the Fourteenth
ward and Assembly Hall something like
35 years. The dear old sisters almost
worshiped her; they had grown so fond
of her, and she seemed a mother to them
all. Her wise counsel and her majestic
bearing made an indelible impression up-
on people, and she put her true woman’s
soul into all she said--and her sayings
will live after her and be repeated to the
Saints throughout all time.
	Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne passed
peacefully away from this life on Friday,
at 7 p.m., August 25, 1905, at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, surrounded by a large number of
her own family and intimate friends.
	Sister Horne had been confined to her
bed eleven weeks previous to her demise,
and had at times suffered very great pain,
but at intervals was comparatively easy
and comfortable, and glad to see the sis-
ters who called; she had been ailing two
years, and her passing away was indeed
a happy release for her; but to those who
who loved her so tenderly there is the
great sorrow of being bereft of her com-
panionship, her wise counsel and the
faith that was like an anchor to all who
had been accustomed to lean upon her.
Many are the friends who will cherish
her memory, who will miss her day by
day, and long to see her beautiful face in
the places they had so often met in sweet
communion.
	“Day after day we think what she is doing
		In that bright world of air;
	Year after year, her tender steps pursuing.
		Behold her grown more fair.”
	As Sister Horne lay in her white cas-
ket in her beautiful robes, she looked fair
and angelic, and the expression was one
of complete repose, as though she would
say if she could speak, “I shall be satis-


fied when I awake in His likeness and
behold His face.”
	Sister Horne’s funeral was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Tuesday,
August 29, at 2 p.m. The hall had been
draped in white, with green vines inter-
twined, and flowers and palms ornament-
ed the stands. The flowers sent as me-
mentoes of love were beautiful and in
great variety. The Relief Society, the
General Board, the old Salt Lake Stake
Board, of which she was for many years
president, and the adjacent stakes, each
sent handsome floral designs, and the
family the most exquisite that could be
obtained in dainty blossoms, and there
were many from friends and relatives be-
sides.
	The First Presidency were all present
and each said a few words, President Jo-
seph F. Smith making the principal ad-
dress. Other speakers were Presidents
Frank Y. Taylor of Granite Stake and
Joseph E. Taylor of the old Salt Lake
Stake, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells. The
music was furnished by the Temple choir
and Elder Geo. D. Pyper sang a solo, “The
Resurrection Day.” The opening hymn
was “Who are these arrayed in white?”
etc, “Shall we meet beyond the river?”
and the last, “Farewell all earthly hon-
ors.”
	The General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety and the members of President
Horne’s Board of the Salt Lake Stake
occupied seats upon the stand. The ser-
vices were very impressive and consoling,
the remarks were all in praise of the
many virtues and noble deeds of the de-
parted mother in Israel, who for so many
years had labored for Zion. Many touch-
ing reminisceces were given of her devo-
tion and self-sacrifices; and her grand and
sublime character was faithfully portrayed
in words of sympathy and appreciation.
	Apostle Hyrum Smith pronounced the
benediction. The pallbearers were her
grandsons Malin Horne, Joseph L. Horne,
Wilford Horne, LeRoy Clayton, Joseph
Tingey. Jr., and Henry James, Jr.
	A very long train of carriages filled
with mourners and dear friends fol-
lowed the remains of Sister Horne to her
last resting place beside her husband in
the Salt Lake cemetery, and President
Joseph F. Smith dedicated the grave. A
quartette sang “Nearer My God to Thee.”
A woman pioneer, brave and renowne’d,
	She ever bore an honored name;
With motherhood and many virtues crown’d
	To give her everlasting fame.
Mother in Israel, fearless for the right,
	A very stalwart in her place;
Endow’d with wisdom and with Gospel light,
	Intelligence shone in her face.
Her weary steps have reach’d the heav’nly shore,
	Where welcomes glad her soul rejoice
With her companions who have gone before
	She’ll sing again with heart and voice,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ALICE MAY TYLER TANNER.
	Departed this life June 29, 1905, in Milford,
Beaver county, Utah. She was the daughter of
 the worthy and venerable patriarch, Daniel Tyler
and his beloved wife Ruth W., who departed this
life eight years ago.
	In the early sixties her parents were called to
Washington Co., Utah; to assist in colonizing the
Dixie country. Although a child the hardships of
those early days were indelibly impressed upon
her mind. In 1866 they were released from that

[Column 2]
mission and then moved to Beaver. At the early
age of fourteen she entered the Beaver Co-op Store
as a clerk, which position she held several years
until compelled to leave on account of ill health.
Being sorely afflicted with St. Vitus dance, her
parents decided to take her to the House of the
Lord. Through the ordinances received therein
she was fully restored to health. On April 7,
1878 she was married to Joseph W. Tanner. In
1883 they moved to Circleville, Piute county, but in
1887 returned to Beaver as Sister Alice realized
that her parents were becoming aged and enfeeb-
led and needed care, she cheerfully took it upon
herself to perform that duty. Her fidelity and de-
votion to them has been unwavering and almost
without a parallel.
	About the year 1889 she was appointed secretary
of the Beaver Ward Relief Society, which position
she held until March 1897 at which time she was
chosen secretary of the stake. Her ability and
faithfulness as a secretary is seldom equalled,
which was a constant source of just pride and sat-
isfaction to the Ward and Stake Boards, who rec-
ognized and appreciated her worth and the credit
reflected upon them through her ability and
promptness in performing the duties pertaining
to that office. In July, 1901, she was chosen pres-
ident of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Beaver ward,
which position she filled with profit and satisfaction
to the association, and credit and distinction
 to herself, until 1903, when the association was di-
vided. Her labors in the Y. L. M. I. A. and in
the Sunday School as a teacher, and her extra
home duties (having an infant only a few months
old necessitated her release from the position of
Stake secretary of the Relief Society. In 1904 she
was again called to perform the duties of the same
office, which she faithfully did until her demise.
She has been the agent of the Woman’s Exponent
since 1897, having succeeded her mother who had
been the agent in Beaver for that valuable period-
ical eves since its publication. Since her mother's
death in April. 1897, she has faithfully, devotedly
and tenderly cared for her father, who is nearly
89 years of age. She is the mother of eleven chil-
dren, one son and ten daughters Five daughters
survive her. Several times during her life she has
approached very near the gates of death, but
through her implicit faith in the power of the
Priesthood of God and the ordinance of the Lord’s
House her life has been spared.
	On March 25, 1905, she gave birth to a daughter
which lived only three days, after which for a
number of weeks she was in a very critical condi-
tion. Through faith and prayer and good medi-
cal aid, she appeared to be in a fair way to re-
covery, until consumption set in. A change of
climate was advised by her physician, so a visit
to relatives in Idaho was decided upon.
	Being very desirous of receiving the ordinance
of baptism for her health in the House
of the Lord, it was planned that they stop
off in Salt Lake City a day or two. On June 27,
her kind, devoted husband, who has spared no
means, or considered any sacrifice too great to
make for her comfort or recovery took her to the
Salt Lake Temple and she there received the cov-
eted ordinance. The extra exertion required to
make the trip in her weakened condition, com-
pletely exhausted her, so much so, that they de-
cided to return home; so in the evening of the same
day, they took the train homeward, and reached
Milford on the morning of the 28th. Being too
weak to continue the journey farther, they re-
mained there, hoping she would soon gain suffic-
ient strength to reach home, but on the morning of
the 29th at 1 o’clock she passed peacefully away.
The funeral services were held on Sunday, July
2, at 2 o’clock p. m., in the L. D, S. meeting
house in Beaver. The speakers all eulogized her
beautiful life, offered consolation to the bereft, ap-
preciated her worth in the community and admon-
ished all to follow her worthy example.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call home one of His most faithful daughters and
earnest workers in the cause of truth, leaving us
to mourn the loss of a dear sister and a humble,
diligent co-laborer in the Beaver Stake Relief So-
ciety and Board, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Boards of
the Beaver Ward and Stake Relief Society, ex-
tend our sincere sympathy and mourn with the
bereft husband, children and aged father. We ap-
preciate her faithful labors as a Ward and Stake
secretary, also as president of the Y. L. M. I, A.,
and teacher in the Sunday School. That she was
a faithful wife, a patient, kind and indulgent
mother, and a devoted daughter. That she was a
living example of a true Latter-day Saint.
That her sterling qualities, her fidelity to the

[Column 3]
truth, and her willingness and faithfulness to duty
made her most lovely and admirable to all her
friends.
	That if we emulate her worthy example and
noble life. we will assuredly meet her again in that
beautiful home where sin and death cannot enter.
May He who has said He will be a husband to
the widow, and a father to the fatherless, pour into
the wounded souls of the bereft ones in this their
dark hour of separation. the oil of healing.
	That we send a copy of these resolutions to the
bereaved family, one to the Woman’s Exponent,
and one to be put upon the Stake records.
	C. C. Shepherd, Mary A. White, H. E, Fothing-
ham. Alice G. White, Frances L. Jones—R. S.
Stake Board.

			IN MEMORIAM.
	Susan Mosely Sperry, who departed this life
July 12, ’05.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father,
the Ruler of the Universe, who doeth all things
well, to remove from our midst our beloved sister
and late President and co worker in the Relief
Society of the Fourth Ward, in the Pioneer Stake
of Zion; Be it Resolved, that we extend to the
husband and family our sincere sympathy and
appreciation of our sister’s worth. In her death
we realize the loss of a faithful and energetic good
woman, who was ever ready to minister to the
sick and the needy, and at all times doing whatso-
ever she could to help the upbuilding of the
Church and Kingdom of God on the earth, and
therefore has earned the great reward which has
been promised to the faithful and entitles her to a
glorious resurrection.
	Sister Susan Mosely Sperry was born at Nau-
voo, Illinois, October 11, 1845. She, with her
widowed mother, four sisters and one brother,
came to Utah and settled in the Fourth Ward,
September, 1848. The brother was accidently
killed soon after their arrival here. Her sister,
Mary Mosely, was a former wife of Bishop Sperry,
and after her death, which occurred August 25,
1859, he married the late sister Susan. Her other
sisters are still living, and are Elizabeth Miller,
Ann Booth and Hannah Foot, and are residents
at Nephi. They, with others who came at the
same time, lived in wagons until they could pro-
vide homes for themselves which was no easy task
in those days Sister Sperry was indeed a pioneer
of the Fourth Ward, and lived continuously in the
Ward until her demise. Let us ever emulate her
good works and cherish her memory.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent, with our sympathies to the bereaved husband
and family and that the same be recorded on the
records of our Society, also that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARY A. HADLEY,
						MARY A. WEILER,
						MAHALA JENKINS,
									Committee.

			IN MEMORIAM.
	In Loving Remembrance of Myra C. Daines.
	Died at Hyde Park, Utah, April 5th, 1905,
Myra C. the beloved wife of Joseph B. Daines and
youngest daughter of Suel and Elizabeth Z. Lamb.
Sister Myra was born at Hyde Park, April 19, 1871
and was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
The mother of seven children, six of them, five
sons and one daughter, with her husband, father,
mother, three brothers and five sisters, mourn the
departure of a loving and dutiful wife, mother,
daughter and sister. Sister Myra was a member
of the Primary from its organization in 1879, and
continued a member after her marriage which was
solemnized in the Logan Temple October 24th.,
1889, and worked as an aid until the winter of
1893, and, was also an active worker in the Y. L.
M. I. A.
	In the Relief Society she was an energetic
worker; was a teacher several years, and was a
faithful observer of the Word of Wisdom; had
never tasted tea or coffee and had performed much
Temple work. She was a great comfort to her
parents, an affectionate wife and mother, a true
neighbor, and is greatly missed in the family circle
and by those who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. To her husband and parents we can
truly say: “Thou dost not weep, to weep alone.”
The broad bereavement seems to fall unheeded
and unfelt by none. She was Beloved, Beloved
by all.
		Remarkable Case of Healing.
	When sister Myra Daines was a young girl a
growth formed on her tongue which was thought


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
to be canker but continued to grow and troubled 
her for years, the doctors pronounced it cancer in-
curable, but by the knife.  She and her parents 
had great faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Myra fasted four days, her parents three, and the 
family and many of her neighbors one day, and
she went to the Logan Temple and was baptized 
seven times and was administered to and promised
health, and although that morning her tongue
was black and swollen so bad she could scarcely
be understood, she was instantly healed and was 
troubled no more. This was a great testimony to 
her and the family and they will never forget it,
and they have borne testimony many times that 
the gifts and blessings still remain in the Church.
					AMELIA KIRBY.
	(By request of the parents.)
		IN MENORIAM.
	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
to record the death of a beloved sister, who de-
parted this life August 9, 1905, at her home in Far
West. Sister Eliza C. Larkins the beloved wife of
Wm. J, Larkins, she was born at War Hill, Surry
Co. N. C. June 26, 1837 and on June the 10, 1869, 
she was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and in July emigrated to 
Utah, coming direct to Weber Co., where she has
since been a faithful worker in the church, she
leaves a devoted husband and three children to 
mourn her loss, the loss of a loving mother and 
wife. In April 28, 1881, she was chosen and set 
apart to act as second counselor to president Mary 
Heggsted when our society was first organized in 
Farr West.  Where she labored faithful until 
November 3, 1892, when our President moved
away and our society had to be reorganized, she
felt she was not able to labor longer in that posi-
tion, she has always been a faithful worker and 
member in the society, and has borne numerous
testimonies to the work of God; she was a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and loved by all who knew her.
	We the officers and me[-]bers of the society feel
we have lost a dear friend and co-laborer, where-
as we sympathize with the bereaved husband and
children, and cherish her memory and strive to em-
ulate her noble character.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in
the Relief Society records, a copy be sent to the 
bereaved husband, and one printed in the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
				MILLIE J. SUMMERS, Sec,
	R. S. REPORTS. 
		CASSIA STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley 10 a.m.
June 23, 1905, President Louisa Haight
presiding. Present were her counselors, 
Lavina Bates and Maud A. Thomas also
presidents of the Society of the various
Wards. Of the Stake Presidency, presi-
dent Wm. T. Jack and counselor Wm. 
T. Harper also visiting sisters from Salt
Lake City Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
bury and Phebe Y. Beatie of the Gen-
eral Board.
	Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises. Verbal reports were given by pres-
idents Ida I. Brim of Albion, Fannie L.
Harper, Oakley 1st Ward, Jane Critch-
field, Oakley 3rd Ward, Jane Durfee, Al-
mo, Charlotte Nelson, Oakley 2nd Ward
Harriet Whitby, Marion, counselor Abi-
gail Beecher of Elba.  Reports showed 
there were many members working dili-
gently in visiting the sick, and assisting
the poor and needy, and in erecting build-
ings where the members can meet con-
veniently and comfortably. The Grouse
Creek Society was reported by letter.
	Sister Clarinda Beecher, a stake mis-
sionary, gave a good report of the 
branches on the east side of the moun-
tain. President Louisa Haight spoke of
the calls made of the sisters to help the
poor and needy and in various ways assist
in building up this great and grand work
that we are engaged in. Sister Phebe
Y. Beatie reported the minutes of the or-
ganization of the first Relief Society and 

[Column 2]
the instructions given by the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith to the sisters. "Let us be
charitable and be careful to do our duty
with our whole heart and soul. President
Wm. T. Jack felt that he could not com-
plain in regard to the condition of the
Stake Relief Society. Encouraged the 
sisters in their great labor; meeting closed 
with singing and prayer. 
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened by singing
and prayer. Counselor Ida Smoot Dus-
enbury spoke of the purification of trials. 
"We must have trials in life to appreci-
ate the blessings. Some people wish to
do great things in life and keep waiting
to do some heroic deed, but you know it
is the little acts of kindness that cause
one to become great. If you want any
one to love you, have them work for you.
If you want your children to love you
have them work. If children have to 
labor and battle with difficulties, they are
the ones that have "stick-to-it-ivness" 
and make great  marks in life. We should 
take great care with regard to our talk 
and the treatment of our children. We 
should not take any more liberties with
them than we let them take with us. If
we only knew how to evenly develope
the traits of our children what a great
blessing it would be. What is greater in
this world  than a pure, noble, God-fear-
ing wife and mother.  By our hard toil, 
labor and diligence we will assist others. 
And the road we are now traveling will
be made easier for those who may follow."
Spoke of the great influence of the
mother in the home. "The greatest
gifts we have we carry around in our
heart and minds."
	Counselor Maude A Thomas spoke of
the familiarity that is growing among our
boys and girls, and said let us as mothers
teach the young of the great evils that 
will follow this course. Counselor Lav-
ina Bates addressed the meeting and ex-
pressed her pleasure in having our sisters
visit with us.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie advised moth-
ers to keep their daughters at home, and 
not send them to Salt Lake City to work
on account of the many evils that exist. 
Our young girls are honest and innocent, 
and are the more likely to be led astray
by the flattery and deceitfulness of evil
men, Spoke of the Nurse class.
	President Louisa Haight thanked the
sisters for their visit and felt pleased for
the privilege of having them. The Gen-
eral and Stake officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Singing, 
benediction by Elder John Elison.
			LOTTIE BACH, Ass't. Sec.


[Column 1]
	ALBERTA STAKE.

	A very interesting Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Cardston Assem-
bly Hall, Aug. 19, 1905. Sisters Sophia
T. Nuttall and Hattie B. Harker, mis-
sionaries of the General Board, were in
attendance. President Mary L. Woolf
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, reports were given by nine branch-
es, all in good coudition.
	Sister Nuttall felt the importance of 
the mission she was called to in visiting
us to understand our condition and
needs and report to the General Board:
spoke of the magnitude of the work be-
fore us. "The powers of evil are aiming
at our young people, and every effort

[Column 2]
should be put forth to save them. We
must live up to the light we have re-
ceived." Encourage young ladies in giv-
ing lectures on mother's work. Much
good can be done if we are in accord
with the spirit, and by perseverance we 
can overcome many difficulties. Our
blessings are innumerable. She felt that 
all is well with the sisters in this land.
Asked God to bless them.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said we have
heard much on our spiritual welfare; our
temporal duties are also very great. En-
couraged the teachers in this good work;
spoke on the necessity of always having 
funds in the treasury; explained the ob-
ject of the bureau of employment in Salt
Lake City; spoke of the advantages of
purchasing land while it is cheap, and en-
couraged the sisters to attend their meet-
ings. "May each one have a desire to 
learn her duty thoroughly and then do
it." Said we are willing to answer any
questions pertaining te Relief work.
	Morning session closed by singing and
benediction.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
Stake President E. J. Wood and Coun-
selor and other brethren also the visiting
sisters and officers of the Relief Society,
with representatives from all the wards
excepting three, those being farthest
away were present. After opening ex-
ercises, reports were given by two sisters
from the,north, showing that they were
working along the line of Relief Society
work.
	Sister Elizabeth Hammer reported her
recent visit to the Relief Society branch-
es in the northern settlements; said there
was great need of our visiting them as
often as possible, as they were inexperi-
enced in the work, but found them will-
ling and desirous to do all they could, and
with the help of the Lord would try and
keep in line with the rest.
	Sister Rhoda Duce recited the last
hymn very touchingly.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker felt gratified
to see so many present. Mothers should
see that their children attend the differ-
ent auxiliary organizations and take their
parts; referred to Nephi as an example of
faith; we cannot be saved in ignorance;
the glory of God is intelligence; spoke
of the bondage of indebtedness––if we go
beyond our means we cannot have the
joy and freedom that should characterize
every Latter-day Saint; compared the
trials of our worthy pioneers with the
prosperity of today.
	Sister Nuttall was glad to see the 
brethren present. "We should sustain
the priesthood, it is the power of God.
The sphere of motherhood is grand and
beautiful, it is not limited; obedience to
the Gospel brings knowledge and intelli-
gence, through the spirit of inspiration
and revelation. The sisters will have to
take more responsibility and attain to 
higher things. Some of the young are
falling into the ways of the world--they
want to avoid the duties of life and have
an easy time in this world; it is necessary
for them to be taught habits of frugality
and industry. We should assist those
who are in need. If we live up to the
principles of our religion, death will be
sweet to us. Every Latter-day Saint
will be tried to the greatest extent; this
should not depress us, but should cause
us to exercise greater faith." She felt
the Saints in this land would be a power


for good. We must work hard to gain
eternal life.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said the
remarks of the sisters had brought many
things to her mind. She had been per-
sonally acquainted with the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, and could testify he was a
prophet of God; she was also acquainted
with the members of the first Relief So-
ciety. "The magnitude of this work is
a testimony to me. We should encour-
age our girls to attend these meetings."
	Elder Thomas Duce said "the Relief
Society has a great and important part in
the Kingdom of God. We shall be judged
by our works." Was pleased to see rep-
resentatives from the northern settle-
ments, some of them have come one
hundred and thirty-five miles to attend
this conference-
	President Edward J. Wood spoke of
the great amount of good that can be
accomplished by mothers; hoped that
each one had heard something this day
that would apply to our needs, and
see to it that their sons and daughters
are preparing themselves to fill future
positions with honor. Our work does
not consist in doing good only to one's
own, but to all, as often as we can.
	Conference was adjourned for three 
months with singing and benedticion.
	M. L. WOOLF.


24 WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[-]E ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit
your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.
TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minor,
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


ALPINE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened at
2 o'clock, President Standring presiding,
Opening exercises as usual, singing, pray-
er, minutes, etc.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams: "We
have met as a body of Relief Society
workers. If it could be possible to call
young women to be teachers in connec-
tion with older ones, they could take the
burden of the work and be obtaining ex-
perience which would be very useful.
There is abundant work for us to do,
many sick and aged need looking after,
and perhaps one sister might look after
several such poor persons." Felt that the
sisters here were all true, conscientious
mothers and desired to encourage them.
Warned them not to speak lightly but
teach the children the proper reverence
for sacred places and sacred things.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought it
was a great privilege to see, and hear the
testimony of President B. W. Smith, for
she is the only one living who was at the
organization of this society.
	Solo, Sister Julia B. Grant.
	President B. W. Smith wanted the sis-
ters to know that this is the true Church.
The Prophet said one great thing was to
look after the morals of the people and
she believed in mothers taking care of
their girls and doing all they can to furth-
er the work of the Lord. Prayed the
Lord to bless Sister Standring and pre-
serve her many years to lead her sisters
and set an example of love and good
works.
	Sister Sina Chipman desired to profit
by the teachings we had today from our
beloved president. Emily Bullock bore
testimony to the goodness and worth of
Sister Smith and the good counsel she
used to give to the young people. M. A.
Webb knew that this was the true Church
of God, for it had been revealed to her.
	President Jos. H. Clark said one of the
speakers had urged the necessity of
keeping our girls at home, and he
thought the same caution should be used
in regard to our boys. If children go out
in the world to make more clothing or
more means and lose their souls what
will it profit them? He saw little boys
standing around at night smoking and
some profaning the name of the Lord.
The worst influences are around at night
waiting for our children. May the Lord
bless the sisters in their labors.
	President A. J. Evans said "the rebuke
of a friend is better than the kiss of an
enemy." The parents who call the fam-
ily together and pray for the servants of
God and the welfare of the Church, are
giving the children a testimony of this
work which is necessary for their guid-
ance. Referred to the law of fasting and
was afraid that many only kept part of
this commandment.
	President Standring made closing re-
marks; singing and benediction. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
	E. FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


[Column 1]
		GOOD WORDS.
	BY CLARA B. COLBY.
	M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	“Truth will prevail,” wrote Zina D. H.
Young; “Charity covers a multitude of
sins,” wrote Presendia L. H. Kimball; and
“Love thy neighbor,” wrote M. Isabella
Horne, in an autograph book which is a
much prized souvenir of a lecture trip
and a reception in Salt Lake. It was in
the autumn of 1888 and Mrs. Elizabeth
Lyle Saxon lecturing on “Social Purity”
and the editor of the Woman’s Tribune
telling the wonderful story of that first
great coming together of women of differ-
ent organizations and countries, had been
warmly received by the women of Utah
and one of the courtesies shown us was a
reception in the Amelia Palace: One of
the ladies present took an autograph al-
bum and secured the signatures of the
distinguished women present, wives and
daughters of the presidents and apostles
of the church and many of them holding
office in the church societies and scarcely
second in public esteem and in authority
to the male hierarchy. Most of the pio-
neers have now moved on, and Mrs.
Horne, who died recently in her 87th
year, was the last survivor of the three I
have quoted. She had joined the Mor-
mon church in 1836, endured the persecu-

[Column 2]
tions in Nauvoo; and had crossed the
plains in 1847, sharing the hardships of
Apostle Taylor’s party. By appointment
of Brigham Young she was president of
the Retrenchment Association, and had
held offices in the church societies since
1853. She had also been connected with
the Utah Silk Association, and with the
management of Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Horne was strikingly handsome, with
bright dark eyes and kindly face, which
of itself bore testimony that in every re-
lation and duty of life she had obeyed
the Divine injunction which she took for
her motto. 
		EDITOR WOMAN’S TRIBUNE.
SHOULD WE NOT HAVE A WOMAN’S DAY?
	The state in which I reside has eight
holidays on which the postmaster and
other public officials have the right to
keep their doors closed. Some of them
are general for the whole United States;
Some are especial for our state only.
Why is it that not one of these is a mem-
orial of any woman? Several are the
birthdays of distinguished men.
	Now I wish for information. Has no
one of our forty-five states and five terri-
tories ever established a day in honor of
one of its great women or of some one
of the great women of the world?
	If this be the case, what do you think
of establishing a day for the whole United
States to be known as “Woman’s Day,”
on which schools, associations, and such
societies as may wish, shall celebrate
womanhood in general, or any great or
good woman they may decide to honor?
Is it not as appropriate to have a
“Woman’s Day” as a “Labor Day?”
	If this suggestion meets with approval I
should suggest for this purpose the 25th of
March, Annunciation Day. In England it
is called “Lady Day,” and is an import-
ant epoch, rents being always paid on
that day. Surely no day could be better
suited to this purpose than that on which
the curse of Eve became the blessing of
Mary and countless generations.
	Mary’s song has always seemed to be
the voice of all womankind rejoicing in
the removal of its ban, “Thenceforth all
generations have called us blessed.”
				JULIA S. TUTWILER.
	Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1905.					No. 5


CONTENTS.
Domestic Science and Home..........M. A. C.		25
Obituary.........................................................		27
Mothers' Work-Wasatch Stake.......................	29
In Memoriam.................................................		30
Relief Society Reports-Morgan Stake-Wa-
	satch Stake-Kanab Stake-Nebo Stake		30
	Snowflake Stake....................................		31
Relief Society Organized...............................		32
Rabbi Fleischer on Women in a Democracy.		32
EDITORIAL:-Interesting Gathering.............		28
	The Spirit of Relief Society Work.........		28
Editorial Notes:..............................................		28
POETRY:-Valiant for the Truth-........Frances
	......................................Ridley Havercal	25
	If I had Time..............................Selected	25
	Beyond...................Ella Wheeler Wilcox	30


VALIANT FOR THE TRUTH.
	BY FRANCES RIDLEY HAVERGAL.
Unfurl the Christian Standard! lift it manfully on
	high.
And rally where its shining folds wave out against
	the sky!
Away with weak half-heartedness, with faithless-
	ness and fear!
Unfurl the Christian Standard, and follow with a
	cheer!
In God's own name we set it up, this banner, brave
	and bright,
Uplifted for the cause of Christ, the cause of Truth
	and Right:
The cause that none can overthrow, the cause that
	must prevail,
Because the promise of the Lord can never, never
	fail. 
Now, who is on the Lord's side, who? come, throng
	His battlefield;
Be strong, and show that ye are men! Come forth
	with sword and shield!
What peace, while traitorous Evil stalks in false
	array of light?
What peace, while enemies of Christ are gathering
	for the fight?
Unfurl the Christian Standard, with firm and fear-
	less hands!
For no pale flag of compromise with Error's legion
	bands,
And no faint-hearted flag of truce with Mischief
	and with Wrong,
Should lead the soldiers of the Cross, the faithful
	and the strong.
Unfurl the Christian Standard, and follow through
	the strife
The noble army who have won the martyr's crown
	of life.
Our ancestors could die for truth, could brave the
	deadly glow,
And shall we let the standard fall. and yield it to
	the foe?
But if ye dare not hold it fast, yours only is the
	loss,
For it shall be victorious, this Standard of the
	Cross!
It shall not suffer, though ye rest beneath your
	sheltering trees,
And cast away the victor's crown for love of timid
	ease.
The Lord of Hosts, in whom alone our weakness
	shall be strong.
Shall lead us on to conquest with a mighty battle
	song;
And soon the warfare shall be past, the glorious
	triumph won,
The kingdoms of this world shall be, the kingdoms
	of His Son.


[Column 1]
DOMESTIC SCIENCE, AND HOME.
	Home is the resort
Of love, of joy, of peace and plenty, where,
Supporting and supported, polished friends
And dear relations mingle into bliss.
	Home: That word touches every fiber
of the soul, and strikes every chord of the
human heart with its angelic fingers.
Nothing but death can break its spell.
What tender associations are linked with
the home: What pleasing images and
deep emotions it awakens: It calls up the
fondest memories of life, and opens in our
nature the purest, deepest, richest gush
of consecrated thought and feeling.
	To the little child, home is his world.
He knows no other. The father’s love,
the mother’s smile, the sister’s embrace,
the brother’s welcome, throw about his
home a heavenly halo, and makes it as
attractive to him as the home of angels.
Home is the spot where the child pours
out all his complaints, and it is the grave
of all his sorrows. 
	Childhood has its sorrows and its griev-
ances; but home is the place where these
are soothed and banished by the sweet
lullaby of a fond mother’s voice. Ask the
man of mature years, whose brow is fur-
rowed by care, whose mind is engrossed
in business, -- ask him what is home.
	He will tell you: It is a place of rest, a
haven of content, where loved ones re-
lieve him of the burden of every day life
too heavy to be continuously borne, from
whence, refreshed and invigorated, he
goes forth to battle again. Every home
should be as a city set on a hill, that can-
not be hid. Into it should flock friends
and friendship, bringing the light of the
world, the stimulus and the modifying
power of contact with various natures,
the fresh flowers of feeling gathered from
wide fields. The influences of home per-
petuate themselves. The gentle graces
of the mother live in the daughter long
after her head is pillowed in the dust of
death; and the fatherly kindness finds its
echoes in the nobility and character of
sons, who come to wear his mantle and
fill his place. While, on the other hand,
from unhappy, misgoverned, and ill order-
ed homes go forth persons who shall make
other homes miserable, and perpetuate
the sorrows and sadness, the contentions
and strifes, which have made their own
early lives miserable. 
	If we would have a true home, we must
guard well our thoughts and actions. A
single bitter word may disquiet the home
for a whole day; but, like unexpected
flowers which spring up along our path
full of freshness, fragrance, and beauty,
so do kind words and gentle acts and
sweet disposition make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell.
	No matter how humble the abode, if it
be thus garnished with grace and sweet-
ened by kindness and smiles, the heart
will turn lovingly towards it from all the
tumults of the world, and home, “be it
ever so humble,” will be the dearest spot
under the sun.

[Column 2]
	Home in one form or another is the
great object of life. It stands at the end
of every days labor, and beckons us to its
bosom: and life would be cheerless and
meaningless did we not discern across
the river that divides it from the life be-
yond, glimpses of the pleasant mansions
prepared for us.
	Home should be so truly home that the
weary, tempted heart, could turn towards
it any where on the dusty highways of
life, and receive light and strength. It
should be the sacred refuge of our lives,
whether rich or poor.
	How can children repay parents for
their watchings, anxieties, labors, toils,
trials, patience, and love? Think of the
long years of unwearied toil, of their deep
and soul felt devotion to the interests of
their offspring. Every day should they
give them some token of love.
	Every hour should their own hearts
glow with gratitude and holy respect for
those who have given them being.
	There is an enduring tenderness in the
love of a mother to her son that trans-
cends all other affections of the heart.
	It is neither to be chilled by selfishness,
weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled
by ingratitude. She will sacrifice every
comfort to his convenience; she will sur-
render every pleasure to his enjoyment;
she will glory in his fame, and exult in his
prosperity.
	If misfortune overtakes him, he will be
the dearer to her from misfortune; and if
disgrace settles upon his name, she will
still love and cherish him in spite of his
disgrace.
	If all the world besides cast him off,
she will be all the world to him. A father
may turn his back on his child, brothers
and sisters may become inveterate, en-
emies, husbands may desert their wives,
wives their husbands; but a mother’s love
endures through all.
	 In good repute, in bad, in the face of
the world’s condemnation, a mother still
lives on and still hopes that her child may
turn from his evil ways and repent; still
she remembers his infant smile that ever
filled her bosom with rapture, the merry
laugh, the joyful shout of his childhood,
the opening promise of his youth; and
thinking of these, she never can be
brought to think him all unworthy.
	Too frequently the effect of prosperity
is to render the heart cold and selfish;
but the heart will never forget the hal-
lowed influence of happy home memories.
It will be an evening’s enjoyment to which
the lapse of years will only add new
sweetness.
	Such a home memory is a constant in-
spiration for good, and as constant a re-
straint from evil. A constant endeavor
should be made to render every home
cheerful. Innocent joy should reign in
every heart.
	There should be found domestic amuse-
ment, fireside pleasures, quiet and simple
they may be, but such as shall make
home happy, and not leave it in that irk-
some place that will oblige the youthful
spirit to look elsewhere for joy.


[Column 1]
	Make your children helpful and useful,
and you will make them happy. Let
them early form habits of neatness, and
when you are weary you will not have to
wait on their carelessness.
	Teach them to give you courteous
speech and manners, and they will live to
honor you. Never reprove the little ones
before strangers; for children are as sen-
sitive, if not more so, than other persons,
and wish strangers to think well of them.
	When reproved before any one with
whom they are not well acquainted, their
vanity is wounded. They have self re-
spect, and such mortification of it is
dangerous. Praise spurs a child on to
earnest effort; blame when administered
before visitors, takes away the power of
doing well. It is the parents duty to
make their children’s childhood full of
love and childhoods’ proper joyousness.
Not all the appliances that wealth can
buy are necessary to the free and happy
unfolding of childhood in body, mind and
heart. But children must have love in-
side the house, and fresh air and good
play and companionship outside.
	The gleeful laugh of happy children is
the best home music, and the graceful
figures of childhood are the best statuary.
	The organization of the home depends
for the most part upon the woman. She
is necessarily the manager of every family
and household. How much there depends
upon her intelligent co-operation.
	Man’s life revolves around woman. She
is the sun of his social life. The comforts of
every home mainly depend upon her—
upon her character, her temper, her
power of organization and her business
management. The idea is fast gaining
ground especially among the younger
girls of today that in order to have a home
where they can be really happy they must
have a house with all the improvements
of modern times, a vast amount of money
must be spent in costly furniture most of
which is fit only as an ornament to a
room rather than being of real use to the
family. Then too all members of the
family must be kept from the most cheer-
ful room in the house in order that it may
be kept ready for callers. To me the en-
nobling influences that do so much to
make stronger characters, and conse-
quently each day assist in making this a
better world, cannot be felt in such a
home, all the real home love, the real
home feelings are wanting. We are not
satisfied merely with a dwelling place, our
home must be comfortable. I do not
mean warmth, good furniture, good eat-
ing and drinking. I mean cleanliness,
pure air, order, economy; in a word home-
thrift and domestic government. Wealth
is not necessary to comfort. A poor
man’s home, moderately supplied with
the necessaries of life, presided over by a
cleanly, frugal housewife, may contain all
the elements of comfortable living, want
of comfort is for the most part caused,
not so much by the absence of sufficient
means, as by the absence of the requisite
knowledge of domestic management.
	I believe that the woman who would
make her home comfortable must be
systematic in her every day routine of
home duties. The woman who starts out
in the morning without first planning her
day’s work will be the woman to whom
housework is a perfect drudgery. But
let her plan her work, let her go at her

[Column 2]
work with a determination to accomplish
it in so much time, and let her be pleas-
ant and cheerful always; then will the
home duties become the greatest pleasures
she will ever know. Another eminently
household quality is punctuality—How
many grumblings would be avoided in
domestic life by a little more attention
being paid to this virtue. Late breakfasts
and late dinners, cleanings out of time
and washings protracted till midnight,—
what a host of little nuisances spring to
mind at the thought of the unpunctual
house wife.
	The unpunctual woman like the un-
punctual man, becomes disliked because
she consumes our time, interferes with
our plans, causes uneasy feelings, and
virtually tells us that we are not of suffi-
cient importance to cause her to be more
punctual. To the business man time is
money, and to the business woman it is
more—it is peace, comfort and domestic
prosperity.
	How often we hear it said that “clean-
liness is next to Godliness.” Where then
if not in our home should this quality be
found?
	If we would have our homes a place
where God’s holiest angels would be
pleased to dwell we must have it a place
where order and cleanliness prevail. How
many times have we entered the house of
a friend, and found every room, every
dish, every book, every piece of furniture
out of its place; the floors all littered up
with everything, so completely covered
with dust that your friend would have to
take her apron and remove the dust from
a chair before she could invite you to be
seated.
	Do you remember the feeling that came
over you when you entered that home?
Do you remember how you longed to flee
from there and return to the peace and
quiet of your own fire-side. If such would
be the influence of such a home over a
stranger, imagine what it would be over
the child reared in such a place. Could
he come from home with the spirit of
God so implanted in his soul that tempta-
tion would be an easy matter to be over-
come, would he come from such a home
with any great desire to return, when the
errand that called him forth was per-
formed.
	Suppose the home you entered had
been so well managed that in all the
house there was not one room, one arti-
cle of furniture, one dish out of its place.
Suppose there were snow white curtains
at the windows, well swept carpets on
the floors, and in the grate a warm cheer-
ful fire. Do you think your stay in this
home would have been such a formal
call? Why I have been in such homes
when it seemed utterly impossible for me
to tear myself away from their peaceful,
quiet, comfortable influence. Such a
home is the sweetest type of heaven.
	The mother who would make of her
home a heaven for her family is the one
who each night plans her work for the
following day. She is the one who arises,
and has each member of her family arise,
at an hour so early that sufficient time
will be given each one to prepare for the
duties of the day before him. Her break-
fast will be served at a certain hour each
morning and at such an hour that all may
enjoy not only his meal but the spirit of
love and peace that should prevail in a
true home. Immediately after the morn-

[Column 3]
ing meal is served and the morning greet-
ings are over the mother takes up her
labors for the day, Remembering first
of all those who are so near to her—she
goes into their sleeping rooms and throws
open the doors and windows and allows
plenty of good fresh air and sunshine to
enter which does so much in the promot-
ing of health, Many persons I believe
do not appreciate this blessing which
God sends alike to all his children, but
when we stop to consider the many dis-
eases and even death which have been
caused by the inmates of the house
breathing the foul air which has been
allowed to remain there for days at a
time, we would consider fresh air and
the bright sunshine among our greatest
luxuries. All the clothes from every bed
should be thrown entirely back in order
that they may become well ventilated
and purified by the air before the bed is
made. I am here reminded of a few lines
of poetry which is self suggested and runs
as follows:
	Do you wish to be healthy!
	Then keep the house sweet;
	As soon as you’re up
	Shake each blanket and sheet.
	Leave the beds to get fresh,
	On the close-crowded floor.
	Let the wind sweep right through—
	Open window and door.
	The bad air will rush out
	As the good air comes in,
	Just as goodness is stronger
	And better than sin.
	Do this, it’s soon done,
	In the fresh morning air,
	It will lighten your labor
	And lessen your care.
	You are weary—no wonder,
	There’s weight and there’s gloom
	Hanging heavily round
	In each over-full room.
	Be sure all the trouble
	Is profit and gain
	For there’s headache and heartache,
	And fever and pain
	Hovering round, settling down
	In the closeness and heat;
	Let the wind sweep right through
	Till the air’s fresh and sweet.
	And more cheerful you’ll feel
	Through the toil of the day;
	More refreshed you’ll awaken
	When the night’s passed away.
	The thrifty housewife who has well
considered the duties of the day will have
cleared the breakfast table, assorted the
dishes, put cooking utensils to soak and
put the dining and living rooms in order,
next she has looked through store closet
and refrigerator and made a list of food
to be ordered, having washed the dishes
and prepared any dish that may require
long cooking, will next make the beds
neatly and put the sleeping rooms in
order. Her house is now in order and
she is free to pay attention to other
duties of the day.
	The wise mother will select for her din-
ing room the most cheerful, and pleasant
room in her home. Let this always be a
bright airy place where the rays of sun-
shine can penetrate each corner,
	Give the arrangements of this room
your most careful attention and above all
make it a place of comfort and rest. Do
not have your room filled with furniture
that must be watched constantly for fear
of a mar or scratch, but let the air of


[Column 1]
freedom pervade the very atmosphere.
Place here such pictures, as will bring to
the mind of the dwellers therein pure,
ennobling thoughts.
	A few flowers in the window sweetens
the air, makes the room look graceful and
refreshing. The flower is a companion
that will never say a cross thing to any
one, but will always look beautiful and
smiling. Does it not appeal to you that
this is just the room in which to serve
your meals. Man does not live to eat, but
he certainly eats to live, and the perfect-
ion and beauty of his spirit is largely con-
ditioned upon the health of his body—
since in a large measure the daily food
conditions the health of the body, every
possible care must be taken to have the
greatest amount of good come from the
food. For this reason, it is imperative to
have pleasant surroundings, those that
are most conducive to cheerful and festive
train of thought and good nature. If the
mind is soothed and at rest, the food
taken is much more beneficial to the
body. No matter how plain, how simple
the food may be the thoughful mother
will exert every effort to serve each meal
in a proper manner. First of all she will
see to it that the room is clean, freshly
aired and dusted and the table in its right
place. In setting the table it is a good
plan to have a thick piece of canton
flannel cloth to lay first on the table.
	This cloth will not only protect the
table from the hot dishes, but will pre-
vent the sound of dishes being set down
upon the table.
	On top of that lay the table cloth per-
fectly straight, with no wrinkles. It is
preferable to use a white cloth, no mat-
ter how cheap the material, for even
then it can be kept white and well laun-
dried, and to the looks appeals to our
better self, makes the plainest food
sweeter to the taste. Much labor can
be saved if the table linen, after using,
is properly cared for by the crumbs be-
ing removed and folded neatly in the
creases and carefully iaid away,
	We may consider a few simple direc-
tions for setting the table.
	Where soup, meat, vegetables and des-
sert are served, the table can be set as
follows: First set a plate for each person,
at the right side of the plate place
a knife with the sharp edge towards the
plate; next to the knife a soup spoon
with the open side of the bowl up. At
the left place a fork, next to the fork the
napkin. If bread and butter plates are
used, place them at the left; put the
glass of water in line with the end of the
blade of the knife. Put a mat for the
meat dish before the carver, and on each
side of the table for the vegetables.
Place the carving knife at the right of the
carver and the fork at the left and a
table spoon in front of him. Put a table
spoon where each dish of vegetables is
to be placed, also at the other end
of the table. Have the dessert
plates with the necessary silver for each
one—teaspoon or knife or fork depend-
ing on the dessert—placed on a side table
near at hand. Fill the glasses with wa-
ter and place a pitcher of water on the
table. If you use pickles or catchup,
place them on the table. Remove the
soup dishes and bring on the meat and
vegetables. Put the warm plates before
the carver. Remove the remaining din-
ner and bring on the dessert.

[Column 2]
	Perhaps there is no branch of domestic
science in the home which is of greater
consequence than that in the preparation
and cooking of the food.
	A good cook must know how to take
“left over,” keep them fresh and sweet,
and out of them make other nourishing
preparations.
	If there is one kind of food that seems
more precious than another it is bread.
As bread is the staff of life, we should be
very careful not to waste any. The
Lord has abundantly blessed us in these
days with plenty. When we read of the
priyatione of the pioneers of this coun-
try, when flour was almost worth its
weight in gold, and when our mission-
aries abroad have testified of its value
and longed for even a crust, we should
sense the importance of wisely using this
great boon to the best advantage. There
are many ways in which odd pieces of
stale bread can be put to use. Steamed
bread, milk toast, bread pudding, cheese
toast, dressings for fowls, drying, rolling
and sifting odd pieces of bread, placing
in a clean, dry jar can be kept any
length of time and used for a variety of
purposes.
	Economy should be the watchword in
every household, and one illustration in
this direction will suffice to show how the
frugal mother can have a variety of
dishes from a very small outlay.
	In the making of soups, by a little tact,
the use of a fair sized bone, such as can
be bought for fifteen or twenty-five
cents, can be used in a variety of ways.
You first make your stock by boiling the
meat, which is strained, cooled and all
fat removed.
	This stock can be kept for a week in
a cool place. A little potato hash can
be made from the meat. If any of this
remains, the flavor can be changed by
adding fine chopped onions and fried
into patties. From this stock you can
first make a good vegetable soup, and
what is left over strain and make a to-
mato soup by adding a spoonful of corn
starch and the tomato juice and season-
ing to taste.
	The potato juice thus used is put up
when the regular stock of tomatoes are
prepared for the winter, by being well
cooked, strained, and bottled, ready to
use for such a purpose. If any of tke
stock is left, make into a clear soup the
rest.
	Many other illustrations in this direc-
tion might be given to good advantage,
but time will not permit. But having
been requested by our worthy president to
relate some of my first experiences, I
venture to offer the following:
	On account of the ill health of my
father when I was about eleven years of
age, our family leased a home in a little
country town.
	The farm was stocked with the usual
supply of horses, cows, pigs and poultry.
It was usual for my parents to visit in
town once a week, and on such occasions
it fell to my lot to prepare whatever
meals were had in their absence. As
there was plenty of fruit on the premises,
we were allowed to help ourselves, and
like growing children always are, my
brother and I not being able to content
ourselves till dinner time, were appeas-
ing our appetites with an apple. The
thought occurred to my brother that it
would be a good idea to have some of

[Column 3]
those delicious apple dumpling, such as
mother made. I readily consented, be-
lieving that I could easily accomplish the
task, as I had previously watched mother
make them. After all preparations had
been made and extra precautions taken
to insure success, we sat down to
feast upon them, but, alas! to my great
disappointment, they were heavy and
appeared as so many balls of lead, and
my brother laughed so heartily that I
persuaded him to throw all of them to
the pigs, and extorted a promise that the
matter should be kept a secret. Noth-
ing was said till next morning, when my
brother was engaged in attending to the
animals and reported to father that one
of the pigs was ill. My father hastened to
the pen and suggested that the animal
was only sleeping, and requested the boy
to awaken it, and at the same time giv-
ing the grunter a poke with his cane. It
was of no use, however, and they were
about to remove the body, when the
thought suggested itself as to how the
pig had died. On close investigation it
was discovered, to my great mortification
and embarrasment, that it had been one
of my dumplings.

	Let the table be the happy eating
place of a merry group, and not simply a
dull board where the members come only
to eat; and lastly, but not least, let the
house all day long, be the scene of
pleasant looks, pleasant words, kind and
affectionate acts.
	Let the sitting room at evening be the
place where a merry company settle
themselves to books and games, until
the round of goodnight kisses are in or-
der.
	I think of no work to which a woman
is called that presents as many interest-
ing problems, or that should be fuller of
interest to the broadly-educated woman.
Almost every science is brought into play
in the equipment and management of a
home.
	May we, as mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around us,
ever think of the responsibility of keep-
ing alive the home feeling in the hearts
of our children, and thus perpetuate the
virtues and graces with which our heav-
enly Father has endowed us.
				MARY A. CUTLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Laura Andrus, President of the West St. George
Ward Relief Society, who departed this life July
4, 1905.
	Whereas, after a long and severe illness our
worthy and beloved President has been called
home to our Heavenly Father, Therefore be it,
Resolved that we express our love and respect
for Sister Andrus and our appreciation of the good
and noble work which she has done.
	Resolved that we do extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved husband and pray that our
Heavenly Father will pour out his Holy Spirit up-
on him to bless and comfort his wounded heart, as
also the hearts of all her other loved ones left to
mourn her loss.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her husband, and one to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT and also a copy be placed on the records of
the Society.
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

				Woman's Exponent. 

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,      	-      	 OCTOBER, 1905


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING GATHERING.
	On Sunday evening, October 29, in the
new stake hall, the Relief Society of
Pioneer Stake, by courtesy of the Stake
Presidency were given the time after the
Sacrament had been administered to pre-
sent the Society work. President Annie
Wells Cannon taking charge and welcom-
ing the visitors. There were present by
invitation President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostles John Henry and George A.
Smith and C. W. Penrose, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary E. B.
Wells, Dr. R. B. Penrose and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith of the General Board,
Sister Sarah E. Richards Smith and a
number of other visitors.
	Sister Cannon in her opening remarks
paid a graceful tribute to the Presidency
of the Stake and Bishops for offering
them one night in a year in which to
present the Society work in the Stake
and in the several wards, outlined the
mothers’ work and the nurses depart-
ment and explained her views of Relief
Society work in general; realized it con-
sisted more in doing than in preaching.
	Sister Lizzie F. Silver gave an original
well-written paper on “Reading.”
	Dr. R. B. Penrose spoke upon “Home
Nursing” its value, explained the benefits
to be derived by all young mothers from
taking the regular course. Sister E. B.
Wells urged all the young girls and wo-
men to become members of the Relief
Society and explained its many benefits.
President B. W. Smith spoke of her
anxiety for the leaders of the Church,
felt the same spirit was manifest now
that prevailed in Nauvoo. Stated that
she was the only living member present
at that first meeting when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	President Joseph F. Smith addressed
the meeting most eloquently, and gave
every possible enconragement to the
young women to assist in the Relief So-
ciety labors for their own development,
and stated it was directly organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He thought
it one of the most important organiza-
tions in the Church. Spoke upon the
possible opportunities open to those who
visited the sick to encourage the spirit
and power of faith. and the effect of its
inspiring hope in the mind of the afflicted
and illustrated the point by relating an
experience of his own regarding the na-
tive traditions of the Hawaiians, who
believe they can pray each other to death.

[Column 2]
President Smith declared with great pow-
er that he knew the promises of the Gos-
pel in regard to healing the sick were true.
He continued his discourse, speaking
most impressively upon the subject of
revelation. He was listened to through-
out with most earnest attention, although
the hall was crowded to the doors and
many were standing. He concluded his
remarks with a glowing tribute to Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith and other faithful
sisters in the Relief Society, blessing them
for their good works.
	Elder Charles W. Penrose and Elder
John Henry Smith each spoke a few
words exhorting the young people to
greater diligence and faithfulness in the
Gospel and to live pure lives; and be true
to themselves and their religion. Miss
Mabel Cooper rendered a beautiful solo,
“He Shall Feed His Flock.” Congrega-
tion sang “Doxology, and Elder Sylvest-
er Q. Cannon pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	This was a remarkable meeting in
many respects, the new hall just opened,
the President of the Church, several
Apostles, High Priests, High Councilors,
Elders and Bishops present as also dis-
tinguished women, whose lives have been
rich in good works.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We call the attention of our readers to
the article in this number entitled
“Home” a lecture given in the Thirtieth
Ward in this city in connection with the
Mother’s Work, we consider it worthy of
being read in the Relief Society meetings
here in this city and elsewhere.
	The October Relief Society Conference
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
the 5th, and 9th of this month, was per-
haps the largest in numbers of any con-
ference the Society has ever held, and
also one of the most interesting in many
ways. The reception tendered by the
General Board to Stake Presidents and
General officers of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciation and Primary on Thursday evening
October 5th, at the Bee Hive, was a
very enjoyable affair, and summing up
briefly the exercises, one can only give a
passing notice of the Scripture reading
by Miss Maud May Babcock, the singing
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley and others,
and the instrumental music; all were of a
very fine quality and lofty in sentiment
and expression. The remarks by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith were very inspiring
to Relief Society workers and teemed
with sound advice and superior wisdom,
and indeed were so uplifting that the
sisters must have realized that he was in-
tensely interested in the minute details of
the working methods of the Society,
	The October meeting of the U. S. D.
R. was held in the EXPONENT Office on
the 16th inst, the Regent Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon presiding. Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie gave the topic of the day, “His-
tory of Dr. Joseph Warren, after which
Mrs. Beatie read the poem written by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder entitled “The Grave
of Paul Revere.”
	Miss Catherine Wells recently returned
from Europe and who had also visited
Massachusetts scenes etc., of the revolu-
tion gave an entertaining talk on places,
battle-grounds, monuments, statues, and

[Column 2]
reminiscences pertaining to revolutionary
times; mentioning the statue of Paul
Revere, Battle of Lexington, Cambridge,
Hancock’s Old Home, Concord, The Cow
Path, and several other famous places,
etc. Emerson’s home, the grave of
Margaret Fuller, mentioned the fact of
one of her ancestors a woman, having
given a signal by lighting a fire on a hill,
when the ships were coming into Boston
harbor. She also gave some interesting
items of her trip abroad. Committee
appointed to prepare for Thanksgiving
at November meeting—Mesdames Carol
Y. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beatie and Eliza-
beth R. Wright. Benediction by the
Chaplain.
	A new book has been issued recently
from the Deseret News Publishing Co.,
Salt Lake City, entitled “Centenary
Souvenir 1805-1905, Mormon Philosophy
or The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.” The author is Elder Lycurgus
A. Wilson, who was also the author of
“The Life of David W. Patten.” The
book is new in many respects and yet old
in others; there are a number of quota-
tions from Joseph the Prophet to which
positive reference is made that the reader
may refer to. That the book is very
interesting, one may infer from its title,
as every Latter-day Saint desires to learn
all that is possible about the first Prophet,
Seer and Revelator in this dispensation,
That the author has taken great pains to
collect material is very apparent in exam-
ining the work, and that he has been
choice in the language and spiritual tone
of the composition of the book. It is a
work that requires study and profound
thought. That it is well meant as a tri-
bute to the memory of the greatest man
of the age in which we live, there is no
doubt; and that the writer has been zeal-
ous for the Gospel in undertaking to ex-
plain clearly its philosophy is demonstrat-
ed by even a hasty perusal. The one pas-
sage it called to mind in looking it over
was a quotation from Shakespeare “There
are more things in heaven and earth than
are dreampt of in our philosophy.” The
writer does not present this note as a re-
view of this rather wonderful book, but
just as a brief notice, and hopes to be-
come better acquainted with its contents,
when it has been carefully studied.


THE SPIRIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	We may sum up in substance the spirit
of Relief Society work as developing in
the woman who undertakes it, charity,
long-suffering, gentleness, patience and
humility—these and many more qualities
are necessary in the work;—the spirit of
Relief Society work must be cultivated as
we cultivate attributes and gifts of mind
and soul; and our environment will have
something to do with this too; one brought
up or living in the atmosphere of those
eminent woman engaged in this Relief
Society work, naturally imbibes the spirit
of it and if practically employed in it, gets
the discipline which comes with the
activity of such faculties, as are brought
into exercise through the constant efforts
made in the routine of the work as a
teacher, or a visitor among those in need
of assistance, spiritual or temporal. To
us it seems the highest and noblest work
women could have to develop them


[Column 1]
morally and spiritually, to have solemn
thoughts and to feel an influence more po-
tent with divine love, more reverential,
and calling forth intense sympathy for
sorrow than in any other situation. It
was no doubt this sentiment that caused
the divine preacher to say "It is better to
go to the house of mourning than to the
house of feasting," because of the awe and
solemnity it inspires.
	In order to be successful in Relief So-
ciety work, one must not only partake of
the influence of it, but must put one's
soul into the work and give it the stamp
and seal of her personal life and char-
acter; and be so engrossed with the real
merit and beauty of it as to be joyous and
make it a part, as it were of herself, a
life work;—and assuredly a work of love
in those elements of character that are
always uplifting.
	The organization as effected by Joseph
Smith the Prophet would in the very
nature of things, be the most advanced in
theory and experiment (if we may be per-
mitted so to call it) in the cultivation of
all the higher and nobler attributes of
true womanhood, because all that the
Prophet did was of the very best.
	No one of us in our Society throughout
the land, who has had the experience of
attending upon the sick and distressed
and of ministering in the sacred offices of
assisting after death can ever forget the
emotions called forth, that tend towards
the most elevating and inspiring thoughts
of a future life here as well as hereafter.
	The spirit of God, the spirit of intel-
ligence, the spirit of prayer must all be
as it were a part of one's self in order to
succeed in Relief Society work, and one
must be willing to make sacrifices for the
sake of the work; self-sacrifice is a part
of the necessary endeavor even to achieve
any great results. To put one's soul into
the undertaking is to give it distinction
and lift it above ordinary common place
affairs. To forget ourselves in our work,
to be so happy in the duties that it brings
as to quicken the pulse, and make us walk
with flying feet, as it were, and do our daily
tasks with lighter hearts than, before,
"Charity never faileth" is indeed the
motto we should carry about and have in
mind always. One must never be weary
in well doing if one expects to follow in
the footsteps of those grand women who
have made their lives glorious in works of
love.
	To those who have traveled much
among our own people and have seen the
devotion of hundreds and perhaps thous-
sands of the valiant women, who have
served in their own neighborhoods among
the sick and suffering, and who have min-
istered to the needy and unfortunate and
given comfort and consolation to the
afflicted, and help to the dying it calls up
to the mind a host of reflections, that
words have no language to express, a rev-
erence and tenderness for these ministers
of grace clothed with faith, and wearing
the mantle of heavenly charity.
	This noble band of workers deserve the
admiration of the world, and assuredly
the veneration, respect and good-will of
all Latter-day Saints. How any young
woman dares to ridicule this work almost
surpasses belief.
	When we recall the women we have
known whose names are immortalized
for the services they have rendered to
humanity among the poor and lowly, as

[Column 2]
well as in all places where these minis-
trations have been needed, a flood of
tender emotions well up in the soul and
we long to tell the young women of today
of their beautiful lives and deeds of mercy
and benevolence.
	We speak their names with tender rev-
erence and we look back upon our asso-
ciation with those sisters almost as if we
had walked with angels. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney known among our people as
"Mother Whitney" Vilate Kimball, Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and a host
of others whose names alone would more
than fill the pages of our little paper—
and now added to these illustrious names
our beloved mother in Israel, M. Isabella
Horne; and while we reverence those
that are gone, we must not forget those
who are still with us, who have trod the
same path and been shining examples of
all that is most excellent and beautiful in
woman—our Elect Lady, Bathsheba W.
Smith and one who has been a grand and
noble worker along with her and those
who have gone on before Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	These women have made it easier and
plainer for those who are to follow, they
have broken down the barriers, have
opened the way and have given a richer
legacy than wealth, for they have made
the world better by their lives and ex-
ample, and have achieved greatness in
the humble walks of life among the wo-
men, and for the women, where their lot
has been cast, and have opened up possi-
bilities for the future greater than have
yet been realized.
	And for this grand organization the
Relief Society we give honor to its foun-
der the Prophet Joseph Smith, who
doubtless foresaw much of which we in
this day have hardly dreamed, though
we feel at times (some of u[-]) the magni-
tude and magnificence of the work to
which we are giving a great part of our
energies and trying to help our younger
sisters to understand and appreciate its
worth to the world of humanity.
	No doubt many avenues of helpfulness
and attainment will open out in the great
days to come for Zion must arise and
shine gloriously, and the women will be
there and have part in the grandeur and
splendor of the temples and edifices that
will make the cities of the Saints secure
and peaceful resting places for all, who
come up over the wonderful highways
that have been prophesied of and that
must assuredly come to pass.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]OUTLINE OF MOTHERS’ WORK.
	WASATCH STAKE.
Lesson 1.—Sacredness of Honor.
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to
get the children’s confidence. (c) How
to uproot evil by planting good.
	Lesson 2.—Social Purity
	(a) How shall we create a higher so-
cial standing? (b) The aim of parents
should be to arrange and control the en-
vironments of the young people, cure
their faults, cultivate their talents and de-
velop their virtues.
Lesson 3.—School Life of Children.
	(a) Teach them to respect their princi-
pal and teachers and avoid criticism in
their hearing. (b) Train them early to

[Column 2]
do everything possible for themselves in
getting ready for school. (c) Impress
upon them the necessity of regularity in
attendance, punctuality and obedience.
	Lesson 4.—Occupation.
	(a) Be what nature intended you for
and you will succeed. (b) The dignity
of occupation should be judged by its in
fluences. (c) Do not waste time, money
and energy in endless changes and wand-
erings, but find what you are adapted for
and pursue that with the energy of your
soul. (d) Occupation in the home.
Occupation in the business world. Oc-
cupation in church and society.
	Lesson 5.—Self Culture.
	(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties
of nature. (b) Use good language, avoid
slang. (c) Study self control. (d) Seek
good companions in books and persons.
(e) Cultivate good thoughts: right think-
ing leads to right action.
Lesson 6.—Our Girls and Boys, Fathers
and Mothers of the Next Generation.
“Ah, happy years, who would not be a
child again.”
	(a) Childhood, its joys and trials. (b)
Good seed brings forth good fruit. As
we sow we reap. (c) Every organ of
the body performs a certain work. (d)
Duties of mothers in instructing their
sons. (e) Plenty of pure air and sleep
with wholesome diet the best medicine
for children.
		Lesson 7.—Woman.
	Every woman should be the embodi-
ment of purity, modesty, patience, affec-
tion and gratitude.
		Lesson 8.—Motherhood.
	(a) God’s commandment to Adam and
Eve. Ref. 1st chapter, 28-36 verse. (b)
Highest calling of man and woman. (c)
Child’s best heritage, honorable birth. (d)
Is poverty an excuse? Ref. Juvenile
Instructor, July 15, 1905
		Lesson 9—Virtue.
	(a) Who can find a virtuous woman,
for her price is above rubies. Ref. Prov-
erbs 31st ch. 10th v. We should ever be
diligent in training our children to guard
their virtue as they would their lives,
	Lesson 10.—Respect for the Aged.
	(a) Teach children to show respect
and kindness. (b) How can children
best lighten their labors and supply their
needs and show them the greatest honor?
“Honor thy father and thy mother,” etc.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty and Faithfulness.
	(a) Parents should set a proper exam-
ple. (b) Truthfulness in children may
be encouraged if due diligence be exer-
cised by parents and teachers. Ref. Doc-
trine and Covenants, sec, 93, 1.40 v.
Proverbs, 12:19-23. 13 ch., 5-6.
Lesson 12. True Object of Relief Soci-
			ety Work,
	(a) Visiting the sick. (b) Looking
after the poor and downcast. (c) Effects
of cheerful company. (d) Improvement
of home life. Make home, home indeed.
	Annie R. Duke, Elizabeth Murdock,
Louise Alexander, Margaret Murdock,
Sarah K. Duke—Committee.


30	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IF I HAD TIME.
If I had time O minds all dulled with weeping,
	I’d waken you to thoughts and deeds sublime.
If I had time, O eyes grown dim with weeping,
	I’d brighten you if only I had time.
If I had time, O hearts so worn with grieving
	I’d comfort you with God’s own words’ sublime.
Spirits dark stained with sins past all believing
	I’d seek to clear you, if only I had time.
O careless soul, self shut in narrow prison
	Open thy doors! indifference is crime,
Over thy heart let Christ reign newly risen,
	And for thy Master's service make the time.
							SELECTED.


BEYOND.
It seemeth such a little way to me
	Across to that strange country—the Beyond;
And yet not strange, for it has grown to be
	The home of those of whom I am so fond;
They make it seem familiar and most dear,
	As journeying friends bring distant regions near.
So close it lies that when my sight is clear
	I think I almost see the gleaming strand,
I know I feel those who have gone from here
	Come near enough sometimes to touch my hand,
I often think but for our veiled eyes
	We should find Heaven right about us lies.
I cannot make it seem a day to dread,
	When from this dear earth I shall journey out
To that still dearer country of the dead,
	And join the lost ones, so long dreamt about.
I love this world, yet shall I love to go
	And meet the friends who wait for me I know,
I never stand above a bier and see
	The seal of death set on some well-loved face
But that I think, “One more to welcome me
	When I shall cross the intervening space
Between this land and that one over there,
One more to make the strange Beyond seem fair,”
And so for me there is no sting in death,
	And so the grave has lost its victory.
It is but crossing—with abated breath,
	And white, set face—a little strip of sea,
To find the loved ones waiting on the shore,
	More beautiful, more precious than before
					ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


IN MEMORIAM.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Sacred to the memory of Mary Dobson Clark
who departed this life Aug. 20th, 1905 at her home
in Cedar Fort, Utah Co, Utah.
	She was born July 1st, 1832, at Preston, Eng-
land, baptized when a child, came to Utah in 1856
with her mother and two brothers, Willard and
Thomas Dobson, better known now as Captain
Tom Dobson, of Salt Lake City. Crossing the
plains in Edward Martin’s hand-cart company,
and with them passed through the privations and
severe hardships that, that company was known to
have endured, wading through snow three feet
deep, her feet being badly frozen, but through the
administration of the Elders they were healed.
She was married to James P. Clark, May 7th,
1857 and located in Cedar Fort.
	She was of a gentle and merry disposition, and
one of Zion’s sweet singers. She was a willing
worker, and faithful officer in the Relief Society
and Primary Association for many years, punctual
in attendance, and prompt in all donations in re-
lief work.
	Her great desire was to remain faithful and true
to the Gospel of Christ, which she has done. And
we her co-laborers deem it a pleasant duty to test-
ify to her faithfulness.
	Therefore be it resolved, by the sisters of the
Cedar Fort Ward Relief Society that we tender to
her bereaved husband. son and daughters our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust they will be com-
forted, in the assurance that “she” is not dead,
but has gone to a brighter and better world. Be
it further—
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be re-
corded upon the record of the Society, a copy be
sent to the bereaved family and also published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
						FANIE N. BERRY, Treas.
						ANNIE M. SMITH, Sec.
	In behalf of the Cedar Fort Relief Society.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Account of the death of the faithful and dearly
beloved Counselor of Sister Laura E. Pack of
Kamas; Sister Catherine E. Woodard, who de-
parted this life October 2nd 1905, in her thirty-
sixth year. She was born in Kamas, Summit Co.,
Jan. 10th 1869 and though for the last ten years she
has been a great sufferer, she has been a diligent
faithful worker both in public and and private life,
never shrinking from duty, ever tender and true
to those in need. She has left a record that it
would be hard indeed to surpass.
	In the home of her aged grandparents, as also
in the homes of her brothers and sisters she has
been depended upon and looked up to, especially
in times of sickness or trial, as a wise never fail-
ing, ever sympathetic friend. Despite her many
home duties she was for nine years a faithful
worker as Counselor in the Young Ladies Associa-
tion, also for many years a Sunday School teacher
and the last four and a half years of her life, as
Counselor in Relief Society work. It may be truly
said of her “Those who knew her best, loved her
most.”
					LAURA E. PACK,


The death of Mrs. Ellen Salisbury removed
from earth a woman who, through a long life,
filled her sphere with a constancy and devotion to
duty, which were the admiration of all who knew
her and were worthy of emulation. After a ling-
ering but patient illness, she passed away at her
home, Fivepoints, Ogden, on the eleventh of
August, in the eighty-fifth year of her age. She
embraced the Gospel in Preston, Lancashire, Eng-
land, being one of the first converts of President
Heber C. Kimball and emigrated to Utah in
1855. She lived true to the faith to the end, and
even in her last illness gave and sent blessings to
all she knew While in England she composed
the tune to the hymn, “Oh, Say what is Truth?”
Oh! say, what is truth? ’Tis the fairest gem
That the riches of worlds can produce;
And priceless the value of truth will be, when
The proud monarch’s costliest diadem
Is counted but dross and refuse.
Then say what is truth? ’Tis the last and the first,
For the limits of time it steps o’er.
Though the heavens depart, and the earth’s foun-
	tains burst.
Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the
	worst,
Eternal, unchang’d, evermore.
					MARY E. STONE.
					MARY E. PARSONS.
							Daughters.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
August 17th in the stake house with a
fairly good attendance.
	The General Board was represented by
Sisters P. Y. Beatie and C. S. Thomas of
Salt Lake City. The several branches
were reported as doing the best they can
under the circumstances in which they
are placed. Some are too busy to at-
tend meetings much, but on the whole
there are enough faithful workers to keep
the Relief Society work rolling on in the
Morgan Stake. The Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society make regular visits.
				ANNIE W. CLARK,
							Secretary.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wasatch stake was held June 16, 1905,
in the stake tabernacle, and was well
attended by stake authorities and local
officers.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and P. J. M.
Farnsworth, representing the General
Board, were also present.
	Sister Ann Murdock related an instance
that she heard at the first Relief Society

[Column 2]
meeting held in Salt Lake City, that the
Relief Society should spread from north
to south, from east to west; she had lived
to see this fulfilled.
	A lecture was given by Sister Johanna
Jensen on Charity.
	Recitation, “Thy will be done,” Sophia
Lake.
	The visiting sisters gave encouraging
remarks to workers in the Relief Society
cause, also dwelt on need of charity, re-
finement and gentleness among the sis-
ters and girls. Emphasized the necessity
of keeping the lives and memories of the
pioneers fresh in the minds of the sons
and daughters of Zion.
	President Wm. H. Smart desired the
sisters to be loyal to their file leaders and
loyal to all their spiritual and tempo-
ral interests. Paid a glowing tribute to
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, also to the
stake presidency.
	The reports from the various ward of-
ficers given at officers meeting indicated
the work to be progressing in this stake
of Zion.
		SARAH K DUKE, Secretary.
		KANAB STAKE.
	Minutes of the Kanab Stake Relief
Society conference, held at Kanab Sep-
tember 4, 1905. Stake Counselor Eliza-
beth Pugh present and presiding.
	Sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Counselor E, J. H. Lewis
of the Kanab Relief Society.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh made a few
opening remarks; said President Seeg-
miller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt were
absent; also regretted that the visiting
sisters from Salt Lake were unable to
meet with us. A letter from President
Seegmiller, also one from Sister Emme-
line B. Wells were read.
	Sister Pugh reported that President
Seegmiller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt
had visited the stake three months ago,
filled up all vacancies, and that now each
society was in good order.
	The different wards of the stake were
represented and reported by an officer of
each Relief Society as in fairly good work-
ing order, teachers alive to their duties
as a rule, meetings held regularly, and
those in attendance feeling well.
	Instructions given at the conference
were: referring to the duties of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society, our duties to
each other, care for the sick, looking
after the poor and needy, have a watch-
care over the children, our neighbor’s as
well as our own, sustain those in author-
ity over us, and live so that we may have
a claim upon the blessings of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang “Praise to the man.” etc.
	Benediction by Sister J. W. Seaman.
			PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
		NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society convened in the
Spanish Fork 1st ward meeting house
October 9, 1905, at 10.30 o’clock, Pres.
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
	Mrs. Estella Davis rendered a song-
	Pres. Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
2nd ward briefly welcomed all present at
our conference; prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us.
	The Leland ward was reported by
Prest. Markham with doing the best they
can under the circumstances—have forty
bushels of wheat on hand.


[Column 1]
	Sister Sarah Swenson reported the
society of the 4th ward of Spanish Fork;
they own meeting house and granary,
have between 400 and 500 bushels of
wheat on hand.
	The Salem ward society was reported
by Pres. Mary Ann Pierce: Own meeting
house and granary, have nearly 500 bush-
els of wheat, The teachers are doing a
good work; some have visited every
month.
	Sister Harker, one of the missionaries
from Salt Lake City, felt very pleased to
hear and partake of the good spirit of our
meeting; said we came here not to do
our own will, but the will of the Father.
We should make home the most beloved
place on earth. Spoke of the teachers as
being the backbone of the society. En-
couraged the secretaries to be prompt in
copying their minutes and in sending in
their reports. Her remarks were full of
encouragement and blessing for the sis-
ters.
	Recitation by Sister Rhoda Robinson.
	President Holt invited all to stay and
have lunch.
	Adjourned, after singing and prayer,
until 1:30, o'clock.
	Afternoon meeting recovened. After
the opening exercises, a hymn was sung
by Sister Ann Lewis.
	Stake Counselor Henry Gardner said
he did not know of an organization of so
much importance in the Church as the
Relief Society. The sisters had been
pioneers and home builders. Had some
business to present in behalf of Sister Page,
who was desirous of being released from
the presidency of the Nebo Stake Relief
Society. Proposed that the sisters give
her an honorable release and thanks for
her labors in the past, which motion was
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon was chosen and
unanimously sustained to fill her place as
President of the Relief Society of the
Nebo Stake.
	Sister Page felt very thankful for the
way in which the sisters had sustained
her; felt that they had prayed for her
as well as sustained her.
	Sister Dixon felt that the sisters had
made a mistake in saying that she would
make a better president that Sister Page.
Felt thankful for the support the sisters
had given the presidency in the past,
and prayed they would support her in the
future.
	A song was sung by Sister Anne Rowe.
	Sister Harker was thankful for the
spirit of unity that had been made mani-
fest; spoke of the woman's building; said
we will have one in connection with the
memorial building. Referred to holding
ward conferences, also explained how to
keep up a contingent fund.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp was the next
speaker, who said, we have all been sit-
ting so long, asked all to arise and rest a
while, went through some exercises; felt
glad to look into the faces of the brothers
and sisters. Had been a member of the
Relief Society many years before realiz-
izing the importance of the work and
what it meant when Joseph Smith organ-
ized the Relief Society. We should be
grateful for the privileges and blessings
we enjoy. The greatest honor we can
have is to be a true wife and noble moth-
er; thought we should have charity one
for another. Do not give way to our tem-
pers. Be careful not to wound the feel-

[Column 2]
ings of our little children. Let us learn
to love one another, and be united one
with another; attend to family prayers
morning and evening; spoke of the nurse
class to be taught this year; prayed the
Lord to bless each one of us.
	Sister Page felt that we had had a good
time today, and pleased with the way we
had been entertained-
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Patriarch Wil-
kins.
		MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Snowflake stake was held at Snowflake
August 11, 1905.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Emma S. Smith addressed the
meeting and said: It is a good plan for
the sisters to attend the priesthood meet-
ings. We need the instructions given
by the brethren. I am thankful for the
confidence they repose in us and hope we
will be worthy of it. The sisters have 
offered many prayers for me; and I am
very grateful to them.
	Counselor Driggs said the Stake Board
had visited all the branches of the society
with one exception. They are in good
condition, and the sisters have an excel-
lent spirit.
	Sister Eliza S. Rogers rendered a solo,
accompanied by Mrs. Marie West.
	Sister Janet M. Smith spoke on tithing.
	Bishop John Hunt spoke of the perse-
cution some of our people are receiving
at the present time, and alluded to the
remarks which had been made on tithing.
It is a true principle, and will benefit all
who practiee it.
	Duet by Misses Jennie Kartchner and
Wilmurth Flake, accompanied by Mrs.
Marie West. 
	Counselor Mary J. R. West said, My
ardor in the suffrage work was dampened
when the women of my nation tried to
unseat Senator Smoot.
	President Jesse N, Smith said: “Sister
Smith has placed her resignation as stake
president of the Relief Society at the
disposal of the brethren. She has been
an invalid for many years, and consider-
ing her impaired health at the present
time, ft is not deemed wise to tax her
strength too greatly. She is a prayerful
woman, and one who devoutly believes
the Gospel.” The name of Sister Mary J.
R. West has been selected, and it is sug-
gested she act as Sister Smith's succes-
sor, and on motion President Smith's
resignation was accepted, and a vote of
thanks tendered her and her counselors
for their many years of service.
	President Jesse N. Smith proposed the
name of Sister Mary J. R. West to fill
the vacancy caused by Sister Smith's re-
lease. Vote unanimous.
	President Emma S. Smith thanked the
sisters for releasing her. Said she had
had taken pleasure in the work, and
loved the sisters who had labored with
her.
	Counselor Mary J. R. West paid a
tribute to the faithful labors of Sisters
Smith and Driggs.
	At the close of the meeting the congre-
gation flocked around the outgoing offic-
ers, to express regret at parting with them
and to congratulate Sister West on her
new position.	
	Later Sister West chose Emma L.

[Column 3]
Smith and Belle H. Flake as counselors,
and they were set apart by President
Jesse N. Smith and Smith D. Rogers.

	September 14, a special conference
was called, and we were honored by a
visit from Sisters Dusenberry and Beatie,
of the General Board. Our new presi-
dent, Sister West, who had been to Hol-
brook to meet the sisters, also came in
with them.
	All the ward presidents were in attend-
ance, which is an exceedingly rare occur-
rence in our stake. The branches of the
Society were represented in very much
the same condition as at the last confer-
ence.
	Sister Phebe Young Beatie was intro-
duced as a daughter of President Brigham
Young, and a step-daughter of our dear
Aunt Zina, a relationship she is pleased
to own. She spoke of sewing parties as a
good way to get the sisters enthused, the
benefits of the Kindergarten and the
Nurse's class. Explained in detail what
would be required of the girls who took
the course and the manner in which
homes were prepared for them. Encour-
aged the girls to take the course, as it 
is a profitable employment. Every girl
should learn a useful trade, even if she is
ever so wealthy.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke
on the influence we wield; the irrepar-
able injury done to children by ignorant
mothers, and of the home, its decorations,
etc.
	In the evening an entertainment was
given in honor of Sisters Smith and
Driggs. The house was decorated for
the occasion, and there was a large at-
tendance of both old and young.
	Counselor Dusenberry gave the open-
ing address, which was a beautiful tribute
to the life and labors of these two sisters.
	Sister Beatie extended congratulations,
and gave excellent advice to the young
people. Sentiments expressive of love
and gratitude were given by all the
branches of the Society present, for each
of the sisters.
	President Jesse N. Smith also made re-
marks, and both guests of the evening
expressed gratitude for the honor shown
them and the gifts ef the sisters.
	President Mary J. R. West thanked
all who had contributed to the success of
the evening and approved the sentiments
voiced by the speakers.
	The program was enlivened by several
musical selections, and all seemed well
pleased to close an interesting day in such
an agreeable manner.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Miss Flora Clift Stephenson, who has
just died, had been elected triennially for
33 years to the school board of Edin-
burgh, Scotland, and had for some years
past been president of the board. She
had also been presented with the freedom
of the city for her great services to the
cause of education. The Scotch are re-
garded as conservative and the Americans
as progressive; yet imagine what commo-
tion there would be if a woman were
placed at the head of the school board in
any large city of this country, outside the
four equal suffrage States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
	Frisco, June 18, 1905.—Pursuant to a
call, the ladies of Frisco, Beaver county,
met in the school house, called by Bishop
Wm. Ashworth.
	After singing and prayer, Mrs. C. C.
Shepherd called a vote as to whether the
ladies wished a Relief Society organized.
The vote was unanimously in favor.
	Mrs. M, E. Ashworth was elected sec-
retary of the meeting.
	The bylaws of the N. W. Relief Soci-
ety were read and accepted.
	The following officers were sustained
by unanimous vote:
	Mary E. Ashworth, president, Margaret
E. Jones and Ella Morris, first and second
vice-presidents; Libbie Fotheringham,
secretary; Edith Chavey, assistant secre-
tar; Harriet S. Farnsworth, treasurer.
	Mrs. Shepherd gave instructions to the
ladies regarding their duties as members
of this organization; said we can be a
great help to the bishop in carrying on
the work of the ward; she believed that
our labors in the society would make us
all better women, and that our home
work would be easier. Spoke of the Moth-
er’s Work, as conducted in our meetings,
and of the help it would be to young
mothers in bearing and rearing their
children. If we do not take advantage
of the opportunities to be educated in the
principles of the Gospel, we shall be un-
der condemnation. Those who take no
interest in public affairs will grow narrow
and care for nothing but themselves.
	Counselor M. A. White said: When we
meet together we draw down the spirit of
God, and that the instructions we re-
ceive are added to by this spirit. The
Lord has provided a way for us to serve
Him, by serving each other. As wives and
mothers we can perform the work of
serving Him better than anyone else in the
world. We will be better ourselves for
having helped another. We can learn
from every one we associate with. If
we see peace and harmony in our neigh-
bors’ homes it gives us a desire to emulate
that example in our own. We must deal
with our children with firmness, but kind-
ly, and there is no place where we can
learn more of this than in our Relief
Society meetings. If we keep our chil-
dren home at night, and control them
when small, the reins will never be taken
from us, It is our duty to assert our
authority, which need not be done in
harshness.
	President of the Stake C. D. White
said: You are now a legal organization,
according to the laws of our state, and
can legally own property, and do good
with it. Every good Latter-day Saint
ought to be willing to help the Relief
Society, that they in turn may help those
in need.
	Stake Counselor J. F. Tolton said:
Charity is not simply helping those in
distress, but is the true love of Jesus
Christ. Let us cultivate a spirit of love,
that we may see the good in others.

[Column 2]
Prayed that in our organization we may
possess a spirit that will make us feel that
we are enjoying a privilege.
	Benediction by Bishop Ashworth.
	After meeting the officers were set
apart by the brethren present.
			L. Farnsworth, Secretary.


[Column 1]				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest saving
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


[Column 1]
RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN IN A
		DEMOCRACY.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer addressed the
Western Massachusetts Federation of
Women’s Clubs in Northampton on
October 4, and his speech made a deep
impression. He said in part:
	“As Grover Cleveland is not now our
‘ruler,’ and his every word is not there-
fore to be regarded as the latest revela-
tion of the eternal wisdom, perhaps you
at least will be inclined to pardon my lese
majeste,’ if I presume to challenge his
recent pronouncement on the subject of
women’s clubs. It is hard for the ‘old
man,’ (I do not mean merely Mr. Cleve-
land, but any old man—any specimen of
that species) to accept the so called ‘new
woman.’ They belong to different his-
torical strata, as it were.
	“New social conditions always produce
new men and women. It is difficult
for the product of the old conditions to
adjust itself to, or to understand the re-
sult of the new. But in human history,
one age is apt to overlap another, so that
the strata are not distinct and several
stages of social development are com-
monly found to coexist upon the same
plane. Thus the old man and the new
woman, and the old woman and the new
man are living in our particular period—
and not the one class in Russia or in
China and the other in England or in Amer-
ica, but the representatives of each, side
by side, in our democratic land, and even
among members of the same family.
	“It is all a matter of individual temper-
ament or human achievement. Some of
us are born into the newest phase of so-
cial evolution, others make a conscious
progress towards it or into it, and others
still serve as brakes or impediments pre-
venting a too rapid social advance. Ac-
cordingly, each of us take rank as old or
new or intermediate. It is not a matter
of calling names or even of making argu-
ment, but simply a matter of registering
what I would term a spiritual fact. Grov-
er Cleveland is as naturally an ‘old man’
as Susan B. Anthony is a ‘new woman.’
	“Let me make my meaning clear. I
have said (and it should be a self-evident
truism) that new social conditions pro-
duce new types of men and women, dif-
fering essentially from one another.
Speaking broadly, I would assert that the
old type of man and woman is the prod-
duct of the hitherto prevalent autocracy
of man-rule in State and church and in-
dustry and the family. Similarly, the
new type of man and woman (that not
yet really is, but is to be) will be the prod-
uct of democracy (which ignores distinc-

[Column 2]
tions of sex and sects and other previous
conditions of servitude)—democracy ap-
plied to politics and religion and indus-
try and the family and every other social
organization and relationship.
	“Plainly, then, democracy is the vastest
enterprise upon which the human race
ever has entered. But I believe in its
complete success. I believe that all
men will in time become completely dem-
ocractic. Meanwhile, fortunate is the
man or woman who is at least touched
by the beauty of the spirit of the new
day. Happy is that person who has
embodied enough of the new principle
to apply it to at least one set of human
relationships. Blessed the people that,
like America, has at least made a begin-
ning with political democracy. The rest
will be added in time. But the complete
democratic people or person does not yet
exist. Therefore, in all of us, more or
less (and usually more) of the old prejud-
ices and attitudes remain, survivals of the
period of male autocracy. Therefore,
too, we are likely to be democratic in one
respect, while remaining undemocratic in
other respects. Thus, for instance, we
find men who are ardent believers in
democracy and are utterly unsympathetic
with the laborers struggle for industrial
democracy. But most males, whatever
their present democratic calibre, balk at
applying the new principle to the con-
cerns of women. And most women are
similarly orthodox regarding their sex.
	“However, the new woman (like the
new man), whlch means the woman who
has been lifted by democracy to the nor-
mal level of human self-respect,—the new
woman is here to stay. She cannot be
written out of existence by Mr. Cleve-
land’s or Lyman Abbott’s magazine arti-
cle. She cannot even be laughed away
by undemocratic men and women along
with that caricature of her noble type
which still commonly usurps the title
and the attention of the genuine new
woman. Shortening her hair and her
skirt and lengthening her tongue does not
make a woman new. But making her,
each according to her capacity, a social
element equal or equivalent to the male
(equal, that is, in social standing and use,
as in individual opportunity),—that is the
sort of women which democracy is to
produce.
			To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1905						No. 6


CONTENTS.
Idealism in in the Home............. Maria Francis	33
George Eliot in the Coventry Coterie...............	33
In Memoriam....................................................	34
Address by Bathsheba W. Smith.......................	35
Letter from Kentucky.......................... N. C. D.	35
Governors on Woman’s Suffrage......................	35
General Relief Society Conference...................	38
Mothers’ Work ..................................................	40
May Teachers Marry?........................................	40
In Memoriam.....................................................	40
Editorial:—Notice to Stake Secretaries.............	36
Thanksgiving Thoughts.....................................	36
Editorial Notes: .................................................	36
The Relief Society..............................................	33
Poetry:—The Wife’s Lament............... Selected	33
	A Dream of Age................ Maud Baggerly	35
	My Sentiments......................... M. E. R. L.	35


THE WIFE’S LAMENT.
I love that gallant man of mine,
	I love him wondrous well;
That he returns my love he finds
	A thousands ways to tell.
But yet sometimes I almost wish
	We might half strangers be,
So he would smile his sweetest smile
	When looking straight at me.
No matter if his face be dark
	With cares we share together
No matter if our skies be spread
	With clouds that bode ill weather;
Whene’er we meet some friend, he’ll greet
	Her with a smile angelic,
But in a trice the smile is gone,
	Nor left one little relic.
Of course I know; we would not show
	The cares we bear to others;
The crosses we endure must be
	Kept hidden from our brothers.
I know that in his heart he smiles
	For me always, God bless him,
And should I make my foolish plaint
	’Twould but the more distress him.
But O to have the smiles he gives
	To others, though unmeaning,
Bestowed on me whene’er I see
	Our ship of joy careening—
’Tis thus sometimes I almost wish
	We might half strangers be,
So he would smile his sweetest smile
	When looking straight at me.
						SELECTED.


[Column 1]
IDEALISM OF THE HOME.
	When a girl has gone through that
most holy and sacred ceremony—mar-
riage, and has given herself, her heart
and her hand, to the man she loves, and
goes to the home he has provided for
her, and where he expects her to be his
wife in every sense of the word, her first
duty should be to make their home an
ideal one. That is, that nothing should
be wanting to make it her and her hus-
band’s earthly paradise.
	Make it as pretty and artistic as her
means will afford, but avoid going into
debt for it.
	Remembering always, it is not the
most costly homes that are the most
homelike.
	Thomas Hood said:

[Column 2]
“In my little home are found
Both heaven and earth, my universe of love,
All that my God can give me, or remove.
Here I live their living, breathe their breath,
Almost, I think, that with one common sigh,
We might resign all mundane care and strife,
And live together one ethereal life.’
	There should be in the home the one-
ness that Hood speaks of—that each
should strive by thought, word and ac-
tion to meet the wishes of the others;
to make our own wishes and desires sub-
servient to theirs.
	If we can train ourselves to live for
others in the home, this unselfishness
will become part of ourselves, and we
shall carry it with us, and the spirit of
it will be felt outside the home circle.
	It takes two to make a quarrel, never
be the first one. If a difference should
arise, have it settled before bed time,
and never sleep on it.
	 It is well to meet for prayer before re-
tiring, as it brings the members closer
together as a family, and with hearts at-
tuned their prayers will assuredly ascend
to the throne of grace.
	I think that verse in the “Cotter’s Sat-
urday Night” is so beautiful:
“He proffers up to Heaven the warm request
That He who stills the raven’s clamorous nest,
And decks the lily fair in flawery pride,
Would in the way His wisdom sees the best,
 For them and for their little ones provide.
Compared to this Italian trills are vain,
The tickled ears no heartfelt rapture raise,
Nae unison hae they in their Creator’s praise.”
	We cannot aim too high. Let all our
aim in life be high. If for any reason we
have to lower our standard, do it with
grace, for the time, but with the full de-
termination to raise it at the first oppor-
tunity. Fame won by self-exertion mer-
its universal praise.
	The next thing in the home is industry
and system. Remember the old adage:
“A stitch in time saves nine.” Do the
thing that requires doing, if possible, at
the time. “Procrastination is the thief
of time.” Too often, if we put a thing
off it is not done at all, and sometimes at
a great monetary loss.
	System is one of the most important
things to be observed in the home.
“A place for everything and every-
thing in its place.” It takes no longer
to put a thing in its place than it does to
lay it down for somebody—generally
mother—to put away; besides, it saves
time, for there is nothing more annoying
than to have to hunt for a thing when
you want it; and nothing that tires a
man’s temper more. The husband has
but little time, usually, and although I do
not think a man should expect to be
waited on hand and foot and set up to
be worshiped by the whole household
more than the rest, still I think that un-
necessary annoyance should be saved
him. He is the bread winner, and we
should consider his time as valuable, and
render him all the assistance possible to
prevent irritation; send him off to his
work with a full stomach and a happy
heart, and above all things, let him

[Column 3]
feel the love that is borne him in the
home, and make him feel that “there is
no place like home,” after the exertions
and worries of the day.
	A wise mother will set the children
their allotted tasks. It is a mistaken
kindness on the part of mothers to do
everything when the children can help.
Give them their time to work and their
time to play, which is a preparation for
the life they should look forward to in
the future. If they are allowed to idle in
childhood, be sure they will be good for
nothing men and women when they grow
up, “Blots on the face of the earth.”
	Shakespeare says:
“What can ennoble sots and cowards?
Not all the noble blood of all the Howards.”
	Laziness leads to bad companionship,
which is the stepping stone to every vice
under the sun. It is said, “It begins in
cobwebs and ends in iron chalns,”
	The more we do, the more we can ac-
complish, which is fully proved by many
of our good sisters,
	We learn by it to economize time and
make the best of every quart[-]r of an
hour. It is not the grind it appears when
cheerfulness and contentment go with
the work. A mother never makes a trou-
ble of the work the little ones make
her. The dirty window panes, the sticky
furniture, because love goes with the
work.
	Why, there is nothing that makes work
so easy and fills the heart with so much
joy. It is a manifest sign of wisdom.
Solomon says, “A contented mind is a 
continual feast;” I know it is a continual
joy.
	Home! What music in the word! We
live at home, and we hope to die at
home. So that the comfort of the home
is of more deep, heartfelt and personal
interest to us than the public affairs of all
the nations of the world.
	Let every woman feel in her heart of
hearts, there is no place like home; and
be it a palace or a cottage she will be a
happy woman, and her home will be an
Ideal one.
				MARIA FRANCIS.


GEORGE ELIOT IN THE COVENTRY
			COTERIE.
	How does the death of a friend set the
mind gathering up all the broken threads
of an old friendship snapped by absence!
As memory brings up your friend’s like-
ness out of her treasure house, how does
she sit side by side with it in the same
gallery, other faces that belonged to your
friend’s peculiar sphere, and who made
up the life that has now passed beyond.
Some have passed the same way; others
are making the same review of the chap-
ter as you are yourself.
	Thus I have been engaged since I
learned of the death of Mary Sibree (later
Mrs. John Cash), one of the early friends
of “George Eliot,” and who formed with
the Bray trio that little charmed coterie


[Column 1]
at Rose Hill, Coventry. During the years
of her girlhood they constituted her
world. Mrs. Cash says, “As we closed
the Bray’s garden doors together, I re-
marked, we seemed to be entering Para-
dise. Marian Evans said, ‘I do indeed
feel that I shut the world out when I shut
that door.’”
	One of my last visits on leaving Eng-
land was a farewell one to Mrs. John
Cash, who lived in the same “Rosehill”
that had formerly been the Bray’s Para-
dise. “The inevitable regret,” writes
George Eliot to Mrs. Cash, “of their
moving is softened as much as possible
by the fact that the house has become
yours,” They moved only to a long
stone’s throw, so the intercourse was un-
interrupted, excepting that it was now
without the phenomenally attractive Ma-
rian Evans.
	I remember being shown “Foleshill,”
where she had lived with her suffering
father—the window over the porch where
she did her studying—and the shady spot
on the Rosehill lawn where the philo-
sophical discussions went on with so
much animation, and not without tender-
ness.
	Sara Hennell was the great philosopher
among the young ladies. I remember
years afterwards the great Charles Darwin
saying to me, “Do you know that Miss Hen-
nell has been spinning philosophy out of
my scientific facts? She has sent me her
new book about it, but for the life of me
I can’t make out head nor tail out of it.”
	I laughed, adding, “We must not tell
Miss Hennell that when we see her next.”
She sometimes came to stay with another
neighbor of ours, near the little village of
Downe, in Kent, Miss Bonham-Carter,
who had been a pupil of Miss Hennell’s
at one time.
	Her sister, Mrs. Bray, I recollect as
having one of the most angelic looking
faces I have ever seen. Beautifully fair,
and sweet, with soft, light auburn curls.
She was just as clever in her way as her
sister Sara, only it took a more practical
form, and her books could be understood
by anybody. In 1863, years before the
thought occurred to anyone else, Mrs.
Bray published “Physiology for Common
Schools,” of which book George Eliot
says: “I thank you, dear Cara, not simply
for giving me the book, but for having
put so much faithful labor in a worthy
direction, and created a lasting benefit
which I can share with others.” Later
she was the pioneer in another school
topic, which is now—thirty years later—
beginning to take its proper place in the
moral education of our children, that of
fostering the spirit of kindness to animals.
At the time I saw Mr. Charles Bray he
had been bitten by the love of Phrenol-
ogy, and talked very interestingly on it.
He is well known by his work, “The
Philosophy of Necessity,” ect.
	Mr. Bray had been a ribbon manufac-
turer of Coventry. He lost his money at
the time of the so-called ribbon famine in
Coventry. It was at this juncture that
the old mother of the Cash’s gave them
her inspiration, that the costly machinery
could make cotton instead of silk ribbon,
to be “fulled up” for frilling. So long ago
as this, woman’s brain was capable of in-
ventiveness! At the time of the “ribbon
famine” my friend, Mrs. Cash, worked
herself into an illness striving to help the
starving operatives. The result of this

[column 2]
illness was a very learned book, which
she intended to be an illustration of that
startling work, “Ecce Homo.” For a
long time the authorship was a puzzle;
eventually solved by Prof. Seeley be-
coming known as the writer. As puzzling
was the true identity of George El-
iot. For two years did that remain a
mystery. Not even could her Coventry
friends guess it to be their “Marian.” It
seems to have been maintained on ac-
count of the way the world regarded her
union with George Lewes. This union
threatened at first to break up the tender
feeling of the old-time coterie. For sev-
eral months no letters seem to have been
exchanged. Miss Hennell was evidently
the first to condone it. In the following
year, 1855, a letter was written in answer
to a remonstrating one from her sweet
friend, Mrs. Bray. She says: “We are
working hard to provide for others better
than we provide for ourselves, and to
fulfill every responsibility that lies upon
us. * * * Light and easily broken
ties are what I neither desire theoretically
nor could live for practically. Women
who are satisfied with such ties do not act
as I have done.”	
	The divorce laws of England were ex-
ceedingly strict, and allowed no loophole
of escape for Mr. Lewes from his first
most utterly uncongenial marriage, whose
true ties had been, I believe, already sev-
ered in reality by his wife.
	I remember hearing at the time of their
son Thornie’s long illness and subsequent
death in 1869, she came to see her son in
George Eliot’s home.
	Mrs. Cash was staying with us, I think,
about the same year, when she saw her
old friend again for the first time since
she had united herself with George Lew-
es. It was one of her weekly at-home
days at the ‘Priory.” Mrs. Cash said on
return that there was a string of great
people’s carriages drawn up outside the
gates. Excepting the knowledge that the
step had at last been condoned by the
“upper ten.” it was poor pleasure to Mrs.
Cash to meet her friend again, with her
warm heart and tender ways, beneath the
eye of the public.
	Just as we went to make our home at
Downe, we found that George Eliot had
but lately vacated “Blackbrook,” Chisel-
hurst, within four miles of us. She had
stayed there a few months as an experi-
ment, in order to find out whether it
would be desirable for a country home.
Some friends of our own went to live at
Blackbrook, with its “fine lawn and grand
trees,” immediately afterwards—a sister
of Sidney Dobell, the poet. I need hard-
ly say how redolent the house seemed on
my first visit with its former famous occu-
pant, George Eliot. People who knew
her there spoke of her as being a great
invalid most of the time, but generally her
health always improved on moving away
from London.
	At the beginning of her literary life,
when she was working at journalism, it
seemed necessary to live there, but when
her successful fiction pushed journalism
into the background, it seems a great
pity that she did not eschew London
with its poor air, its yellow fogs, smoke
blackened bricks and mortar, acting as it
did as a perpetual depressant to George
Eliot’s highly sensitive temperament,
But for these anti-climatic influences it
seems as though she might have been

[Column 3]
here yet, with the still deeper “satisfac-
tion,” as she says of her first book, “in
having done a bit of faithful work, that
will remain like a primrose root in the
hedgerows, and gladden and chasten hu-
man hearts for years to come.” She did
live long enough to see the wish fulfilled,
expressed in a letter io Miss Hennell:
“If I live five years longer,” she writes in
1857, “the positive result of my existence
on the side of truth and goodness will
outweigh the small negative good that
would have consisted in my not doing
anything to shock others; and I can con-
ceieve no consequences that will make
me to repent the past.”
	Long after that she pens this testimo-
ny: “I am very happy—happy in the
highest blessing life can give us, the per-
fect love and sympathy of a nature that
stimulates my own to healthful activity.”
At the commencement of their “dual
solicitude”—as she expresses their life
together—one is struck with the way the
two brick led to the perpetual mill of
journalistic work, grinding out articles
and reviews on all kinds of abstruse sub-
jects for the “Westminster” and other
magazines, in order to provide an educa-
tion for Mr. Lewes’ sons. The marvelous
success of her fiction must have indeed
come in as a blessed relief to all this
“grind” to a woman after suffering from
frail and feeble health.
	In comparing George Eliot with the
Russian mathematician Sonya Kovalevs-
ky (whose life has lately appeared), an-
other woman with “a man’s head and a
woman’s heart,” how incomparably more
happy for George Eliot that she became
the wife of a man of whom she could say,
in words to the same effect, as each suc-
ceeding year she closed her journal: “My
happiness deepens, the blessedness of a
perfect love and union grows daily.”
						SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of Mary Jane Wheelan, who
departed this life September 23, 1905.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in his infin-
ite wisdom called from our midst our beloved sis-
ter and co-laborer, Mary Jane Wheelan, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
and the discharge of her duties in the society
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her, and feel comforted in the as-
surance that, if worthy, we will meet and enjoy
her society again.
	Resolved that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God that His comfort-
ing influence may be with them, and lead their
hearts to acknowledge His goodness even in their
sore bereavement.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Third Ward Re-
lief Society, that we mourn our loss and that we
appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set us to follow. Be it further
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased; be placed
on the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the Exponent and our local paper for publication.
Gone to a peaceful, happy rest,
Free from life's grief and pain,
Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
Our loss is Father's gain.
MARY E. ABEL,
ANN E. CLAYSON,
CARRIE. E. DALHEN.
In behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A DREAM OF AGE.
BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.
Grandmother sits alone in the sun
And watches the leaves fall one by one,
And thinks, as the wind bears each away,
Of the friends she loved in the yesterday.

The husband and babes sleep under the mould
And youth and love, like a "tale that is told"
Have long since vanished into the past
And the dream of the present is fleeing fast,

But the sun, the wind, the rain of today
Beat only upon a house of clay,
Back, far back, in the realm of the past
In the palace of dreams she dwells at last.


MY SENTIMENTS.
Lord grant me grace from day to day,
And strength to do Thy will,
Oh may I walk in wisdom's way,
And all Thy laws fulfill.

And when my days on earth expire,
Dear Lord, remember me,
For its my soul's sincere desire
That where Thou art, there I may be.

And join with all the heavenly host,
To sing sweet songs of praise,
To Father, Son and Holy Ghost,
In never ending days[-]
M E. R. L.


ADDRESS OF BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	[Read at the Large Tabernacle, Salt
Lake City, March 17, 1892.]
MY DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS:
	I rejoice that I have lived to see this
day—the Jubilee of our Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved
Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society
in Nauvoo.
	After the organization was perfected,
and the president, Sister Emma Smith,
and her counselors, Sister Whitney and
Sister Cleveland, had taken their seats
upon the stand, eighteen members were
admitted.
	Hundreds joined the Society within a
year.
	Brother Joseph met with us many times
and gave us much counsel and valuable
instruction. He said: "Every virtuous
woman should belong to this Society. The
organization is not only for the purpose
of administering to the sick and afflicted,
the poor and the needy, but it is to save
souls. If the sisters come before the
Lord in humility and faith and lay hands
upon the sick, and the Lord heals them,
none should find fault. If ye are pure in
all things. nothing on earth or in heaven
can hinder the angels from associating
with you."
	At one meeting he said he would not
be with us much longer to instruct us.
This made us all feel sad. His words
soon came to pass, and wrung our hearts
with sorrow and grief for the great loss
we had sustained in losing our dearly be-
loved Prophet—for a true prophet I know
he was.
	It has been a "labor of love." The sick
and destitute have been blessed, the cast
down have been comforted, and the Lord
has filled our hearts with joy and peace.
	Let us take renewed courage and be
more united and earnest in this great
work; and if anyone has ill feelings to-
wards another, banish them and make
this a jubilee in very deed.
	May the choicest of Heaven's blessings
rest upon all Israel is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus. Amen,


LETTER FROM KENTUCKY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I received your most
kind and welcome missive yester eve.
We were glad to have a word from you,
and also that you had received the pay-
ment for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for I
love to read it. It is a help to me in va-
rious ways.
	No, ma'am, I do not see the Elders
very often; but am very glad to see them
when I do. There are not enough mem-
bers in this part of the country for the
Elders to visit, or for any of them to
come often. You will please continue to
send the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to Cisney.
I have a son there who takes my mail
out of the office and keeps it for me till I
go home. My present address is only
temporary.
	I am teaching school and will be here
only a few months. Yes, Brother Smith
sent me the receipt for the money re-
ceived for the paper. Thanks to you for
sending the same. I am a widow and
have to make a living the best I can. I
have been working and trying to get to
Zion about twenty years, and have not
succeeded yet. I am so very anxious to
come to Zion and visit the temple and
receive the holy ordinances of the same.
I  thought I had arrangements made so I
could get there this next year; but, alas!
disappointment has come to my expected
plans. I often wonder and think why is
it that I cannot get there, Then I think
perhaps, I am not living just as I ought,
so I would be permitted to go and receive
those holy ordinances. I am really desir-
ous to receive the patriarchal blessing
from the hands of the patriarch, also the
blessings from the higher ordinances of the
Church. I do not know what to do more
than I have done, only to stand still and
try to pray for help continually. I feel
so very weak in the spirit and faith that
I do not know what to do at all. You
may say I am all alone in the Gospel
here, fighting as best I can in my own
weak way.
	Now desiring the prayers of the Saints
also of President Smith that I may have
faith and intelligence, and be strength-
ened in body and mind in all things, that
I may be able to do a great work in
everything that is right for me to do. also
if I still continue to teach school, to have
wisdom, understanding, knowledge, pa-
tiance and intelligence; also all the qual-
ities I need to make me successful at all
times in everything my heavenly Father
would have me do. I desire to say at
all times and places, "Not my will but
Thine be done, O my Father in heaven."
But I often think how weak and frail the
poor weak creature of the earth is, and
that we can do nothing at all of ourselves,
but all our strength must come from our
Father in heaven through His Son Jesus
Christ.
	Now, dear sisters and brethren, one
and all, pray for me that I may be able
to do my Father's will at all times, and
be more and more obedient, relying
wholly on Him in all things, and live in
word and deed, action and thought, to do
His holy will, so that I may be able to
receive the many blessings He has in
store for me. Now, hoping to hear from
you soon, I remain,
N. C. D.
Oct. 30, 1905.


GOVERNERS ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	A letter was lately sent from the Na-
tional Suffrage Headquarters to the Gov-
ernor of each State and Territory, asking
how he stood on woman suffrage. An-
swers were received from 35. Three
frankly expressed themselves as opposed,
six were too busy to give a detailed opin-
ion, and several were non-committal.
	Among those expressing themselves in
favor were Gov. W. L. Douglas of Massa-
chusetts, who wrote: "I am on record as
a member of the Legislature of 1883, 1884,
and 1886 as favoring the suffrage for wo-
men."
	Gov. Robert M. La Follette of Wiscon-
sin wrote: "In reply to your question as
to whether I believe in the principle of
woman suffrage, I reply in the affirma-
tive."
	Gov. George C. Pardee of California
wrote: "I see no reason why women—
simply because they are women—should
not have the privilege of the suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Johnson of Minnesota
wrote: "I am a thorough believer in
woman suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Mickey of Nebraska:
"When I was in the Nebraska Legislature,
twenty-four years ago, I voted "aye" on
the submission of a suffrage amendment
to the voters of Nebraska. I have never
had occasion since to change my views."
	Gov. W. C. Blanchard of Louisiana:
"When the intelligent women of Louisi-
ana, or a majority of them, make a de-
mand for woman suffrage, men holding
the opinions I do would not resist the de-
mand for it."
	Gov. George E. Chamberlain of Oregon:
"I hope that this State will give women
the ballot, and I hope that every State
will do it."
	Gov. Hoch of Kansas: "Municipal suf-
frage in Kansas has worked no ill to wo-
manhood or to the State, and it seems to
be satisfactory to the people. Let the man
who thinks his mother, wife, sister or
sweetheart cannot contribute as much vir-
tue and intelligence to government as he
can, vote to disfranchise them. I think
better than that of the women who are
near and dear to me, and of women in
general—hence I vote the other way.
	"Again, taxation without representa-
tion is wrong in theory and practice, and
opposed to the genius of our government.
	Gov. F. R. Gooding of Idaho: "I am
very strongly in favor of woman suffrage,
and regret that I have not time to tell you
all the benefit it has been to Idaho poli-
tics."
	Gov. John C. Cutler of Utah: "I have
been for a long time, and still am, con-
vinced that it is both right and desirable
for women to have the privilege of the
suffrage. Utah has been an equal suffrage
State ever since Statehood was granted,
and my observation has led me to believe
that the results of giving the franchise to
the women have been beneficial."
	Gov. Jesse F. McDonald of Colorado:
"I am a firm believer in the principle of
woman suffrage."
	Governor Brooks, of Wyoming: "Wy-
oming holds the distinction of being the
original Territory and State to grant equal
rights to women, and we have never had
reason to regret our action in that matter,
as woman suffrage here has been uniform-
ly successful and materially helped in
placing our politics on a higher plane."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, U[---]
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	A[-]vertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]el
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street; Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, - NOVEMBER, 1905


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIESr
	The Stake secretaries of the Relief
Society are reminded that the yearly re-
ports are to be made for the year 1905,
from January 1, to December 31, and it
will be a good thing to give notice to all
the branches in the respective stakes so
that there may be a full and complete
record, noting all the changes in officers,
new branches organized, condition of
grain stored as well as the amount on
hand; number of buildings in the stake,
owned by the Society, etc. Address
General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps there has never been a more
auspicious time to celebrate Thanksgiv-
ing than this present year of our Lord,
1905. The country is prosperous, as a
whole, commerce, agriculture, education,
all seem to indicate the season's height
of material enjoyment of the good things
of life; there is really no poverty com-
paratively speaking in this glorious land
of liberty, those who are not able to pro-
vide for themselves are cared for in such
generous ways, that on Thanksgiving day
and indeed almost every other day, there
is no lack of good food, suitable raiment
and good cheer. The churches generally
provide well for their own respective
poorer members, and charitable and phil-
anthropic societies throughout the land
extend hospitality in the most appropri-
ate ways to all without waiting to inquire
into all the details of individual lives.
	The Salvation Army supplies all the
hosts that other people neglect, and great
credit is due them for looking after and
extending a helping hand to the poorer
and neglected, and even the forsaken.
	Thanksgiving is a bea[-]tiful custom and
one that promotes family reunions, and
in bringing together socially those [-]ho
are related by kindred or friendly ties,
cements the good fellowship which exists
and lightens the burdens of everyday
cares and vexations. The commingling
together calls forth the finer sentiments
of the heart, and the glad countenances
evince the joy and pleasure felt in meet-
ing at the festive board, even though the
fare be ever so simple, because it is sea-
soned with heartfelt gratitude and thanks-
giving to the Author of all blessings and
benefits.

[Column 2]
	A song of praise wells up in every heart
whether expressed outwardly or not; the
very atmosphere of the home circle is
filled with a realizing sense of the infinite
goodness and mercy vouchsafed to all
mankind. We cannot be too thankful for
this time-honored custom which has come
down to us from our forefathers and fore-
mothers, whose simple lives and habits
in those early days of frugality and often
scarcity, yet gave to us this blessed obser-
vance of rejoicing for one day in the
harvest season, when the grain has been
garnered and the fruits of the tree and
vine been stored for the winter-time.
	No doubt the appetizing viands suggest
good humor and story telling especially
of the past, and this very cheerfulness
favors digestion; and altogether the rec-
ollections awakened even of those who
are gone to "a better land" are good for
us all, and the new comers into the fami-
ly circle help to banish regrets and to
hold out inducements for future gather-
ings of a similar nature; and the soul is
strengthened for higher purposes, and
the way seems brighter (at least for the
time) for we forget ourselves in thinking
of others.
	Youth and age meet together, the baby
and the grandmother, and the association
not so much of effort to please, as the
spontaneous enjoyment that comes from
the inner springs of life, renews courage
and gives another aspect to what is
around and about us.
	Such occasions are really the true poetry
of life itself, for they fill a longing for ex-
pression, and even those who seem dull
and silent are glad to hear the old songs,
and to listen to the stories of past ex-
periences, and actually find themselves
interested.
	People get nearer to each other even if
the feeling is unexpressed, and such gath-
erings are not forgotten, but come back
to men and women "From some odd corner
of the mind," with vivid appreciation long
years after, and call up the tender ties
that bound them in the shadowy past.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

The Daughters of the Revolution State
Society held the November meeting on
the 16th inst. at the home of the Chap-
lain, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie. The
meeting was a sort of Thanksgiving festi-
val and was very enjoyable. Stars and 
Stripes, banners and bunting, with autumn
leaves and chrysanthemums were deftly
arranged and the long table laid with
snowy linen, dainty china, handsome old
silver and cut glass, and the most appetiz-
ing display of old-fashioned doughnuts
and pumpkin pies, turkey, sweet potatoes
and hot rolls, and a large pumpkin bas-
ket in the centre filled with choice fruits.
The ladies assembled did ample justice to 
the feast. The topics of the day were
given at the table, Patrick Henry by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, discussion on the subject
followed in which Mrs. John D. Spencer
furnished supplementary facts of great
interest. Major-General Heath by the
hostess was the other topic of the day,
but in looking backward in years to come
the Thanksgiving conversation and the
dear ones present will be the memory
that will linger, when the topics are for-
gotten.


A few old friends, mostly those of her
girlhood were present by invitation at the
home of Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson on
the 28th of October. It was the anniver-
versary of the day of her marriage fifty
years, half a century; the hostess wore
her "wedding gown." a lovely soft helio-
trope silk; the rooms were fragrant with
the perfume of roses and other flowers,
and the congratulations of her friends
were as sweet and wholesome as the
beautiful roses and even more lasting, for
these will be remembered when the last
rose is faded and gone. It goes without
saying that the delicacies prepared by
this most hospitable hostess for the delec-
tation of her guests were of the choicest
and best, and so was the goodly company
there assembled. After partaking of the
refreshments, reminiscences of the past
were indulged in and the absent ones ten-
derly alluded to with fond hopes of meet-
ing them nevermore to be separated.
	Such occasions awaken the tenderest
emotions and make life sweeter and bet-
ter for the days that are commonplace,
thanks to the gracious hostess whoever
she may be, who adds one link more to
the golden chain of heart to heart friend-
ships.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EXTRACTS FROM RECORDS.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief
Society, and instructions given by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge room, on the 17th of
March, 1842, President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present.
	President Smith stated that the meet-
ing was called for the purpose of making
more complete the organization of the
Church by organizing the women in the
order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair
and Willard Richards acted as secretary.
After singing and prayer, a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each
sister present, and willing to acknowl-
edge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institu-
tion about to be organized. All being
satisfied, the names of those present were
taken as follows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira
A. Coules, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe
Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desde-
mona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Le-
onora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philinda Herrick, Phebe M.
Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some
of the duties that should devolve on mem-
bers of the society, said they could pro-
voke the brethren to good works, look
after the needs of the poor, and perform
charitable acts. Women must assist in
correcting the morals and strengthening
the virtues of the community. Said it is
now in order for the sisters to elect a
President to preside over the Society and
let her choose two counselors to assist in
the duties of her office. He would ordain
them and let them preside just as the


[Column 1]
Presidency presided over the Church, and
if they needed his instruction they could
ask and he would be pleased to give it
from time to time. Let the Presidency
serve as a constitution and their deci-
sions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institutions, let them be
appointed and set apart, as Teacher,
Deacons, etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and
Sophia Packard seconded the motion that
Emma Smith be elected President of the
society, the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. The Presi-
dent Elect made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secre-
tary and Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the Reve-
lation to Emma Smith from the Doctrine
and Covenants, and stated that she was
ordained at the time the Revelation was
given, to expound the Scriptures, to
teach, etc.
	He then read the Scriptures to show
that an elect lady is one elected to pre-
side. By request of President Joseph
Smith, Apostle John Taylor ordained
Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist
President Emma Smith in the duties of
her office, and share in the blessings per-
taining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction, as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and
President Emma Smith and counselors
took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, "What shall this Society be
called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney
advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and
Joseph Smith spoke in favor of the word
Benevolent, Emma Smith and E. R.
Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's
choice. The gentlemen withdrew their
objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously
carried.
	Pres. Joseph Smith then said, "I now de-
clare this Society organized with presi-
dent and counselors. And who shall
hereafter be admitted must be free from
censure and admitted by vote. President
dent Joseph Smith laid down a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
fund and said, "What I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society,"
Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 ½ cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1.00, Emma Smith, $1.00,
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50cts., Willard
Richards, $1 00, John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd meeting of the Society,
March 30th, President Joseph Smith said,
the members of the society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move according to the ancient Priest-
hood, this must be a select society, sep-
arate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th. President
Joseph Smith said he was present to
speak upon the Priesthood, and his in-
structions were intended only for mem-

[Column 2]
bers of the Society, he wished those not
members to withdraw. After which he
called attention to the 12th chapter of Co-
rinthians, "Now concerning spiritual gifts,"
etc., said the passage which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but
by the Holy Ghost," etc., should be trans-
lated "No man can know," etc., contin-
ued the reading of the chapter, and gave
instructions respecting the different offices
and the necessity of every individual act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her,
and filling the office to which they were
appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to
consider the lower offices in the Church
dishonorable and to look with jealous
eyes on the position of others; said it was
the nonsense of the human heart to aspire
to positions not appointed of God, that
it was better for individuals to magnify
their respective callings and wait patient-
ly till God shall say to them, "Come up
higher," said it was talked by members of
the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they
had common sympathy, they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed. The
time has not been before when these
things could be in their proper order. The
Church is not now organized in its proper
order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commis-
sion given to the ancient Apostles, "Go
ye into all the world," etc., no matter
who believes these signs, such as healing
the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all that believe, whether male or female,
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to adminis-
ter to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the adminis-
tration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault, spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on
account of aspiring men, said the same
aspiring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that
he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, they were going to be left
to themselves, they would not long have
him to instruct them, the Church would
not have his instruction long and the
world would not be troubled with him a
great while, according to his prayer God
had appointed him elsewhere. The con-
gregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith, and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed
to lead. Said the keys are about to be
given to you that you may be able to de-
tect anything false, as readily as the Eld-
ers. If members of the Society become
corrupt, you must deal with them, the
sympathies of the heads of the Church
have induced them to bear with those that
were corrupt, in consequence of which
all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example
provoke the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of
going too fast, resist evil, and there is no
danger, neither God, men, angels or dev-
ils can condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil. As well might the
devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as that

[Column 3]
soul that resists everything evil. You are
now placed in a situation where you can
act according to those sympathies which
God has planted in your bosoms. If you
accord with your privileges angels cannot
be restrained from being your associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent
can come into the presence of God. If
we would come into the presence of God
we must be pure. The devil has great
power, his ways are deceptive. Do not
be contentious, but let the weight of in-
nocence be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck,
meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
veil will be rent and the blessings of
heaven will flow down,
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible; it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
Then read the 13th chapter of Cor.,
"Though I speak with the tongue of
men," etc., said do not be limited in your
views in regard to your neighbors' vir-
tues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do
like Jesus and carry your fellow creatures
to Abraham's bosom, He had manifested
long suffering and we must do the same.
	Said, "Though one have the spirit of
prophecy," etc., though one should be-
come mighty and do great things, over-
throw mountains, and then turn to do
that which is evil, all former deeds would
not save them, but they would go to de-
struction. As you increase in innocence,
virtue and goodness, let your hearts ex-
pand, let them be enlarged towards
others, you must be long-suffering and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind. How precious the souls of men!
The society is to get instruction through
the order which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed
to lead, and I now turn the key to you in
the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence
shall flow down from this time, this is the
beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned, it may extend to
all the world. But your administration
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society. Those ordained
to lead the Society are authorized to ap-
point officers as the circumstances shall
require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge too
much in the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your
comfort. But I lay this down as a rule,
that if anything is taught by the gift of
tongues, it is not to be received as doc-
trine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the
sick by the laying on of hands, said it was
according to revelation, he never was
placed in similar circumstances and never
had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting,
May 26th, the Prophet read the 14th


[Column 1]
chapter of Ezekiel, and said the Lord
had declared by that prophet that the
people shonld each one stand for them-
selves and depend on no man or men; in
the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church, the righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints. If the people depart
from the Lord, they must fall, they were
depending on the Prophet, hence there
was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech, no
organized body can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bod-
ies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses
and difficulties, the object is to make
those not so good equal with the good,
and ever hold the keys of power which
will influence to virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away.
God designs to save the people out of 
their sins. Jesus said, "Ye shall do the
works which ye see me do," these are the
grand key-words for the Society to act 
upon. 
	The tenth meeting was addressed by
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph
Smith being present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President
J. Smith, "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers
all feel it, by union of feeling we obtain
power with God, Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the 
righteous Jews because He took sinners
into His society, He took them upon the 
principle that they repent. Nothing is so
much calculated to lead people to forsake
sin, as to take them by the hand and 
watch over them with tenderness. The 
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father,
the more we are disposed to look with 
compassion on perishing souls. I say to
this Society, if you would have God have 
mercy on you, have mercy on each other.
How mild the Savior dealt with Peter,
saying, "When thou art converted,
strengthen thy brethren," at another time
He said to him, "Lovest thou me? Feed
my sheep." The Society is not only to 
relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting. held in the Grove,
August 31st, 1842. After relating rceent
difficulties he had encountered while be-
ing hunted by his enemies, he said the Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in 
my welfare, in petitioning the Governor
in my behalf. These means were nec-
essary, and your influence helped to 
bring about my redemption from the 
hands of my enemies. I have come here
to bless you. The Society has done well,
their principles are to practice holiness.
God loves you and your prayers shall
avail much, do not cease to let them as-
cend to God in my behalf. The enemy 
will never get weary. I expect he will ar-
ray everything against me, expect a trem-
endous warfare. He that will war the
Christian warfare will have all the powers
of darkness continually arrayed against
him.
	A few things had been manifested to
him during his absence, respecting bap-
tism for the dead, which he would com-
municate next Sabbath if nothing should
occur to prevent it. He then offered a

[Column 2]
fervent prayer to God in behalf of the 
Society. After the transaction of some
business in the adjustment of which Pres.
Smith offered counsel, said he had one
more remark to make respecting baptism
for the dead, which must suffice for the
present until he had the opportunity to
present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be
an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be
necessary in the Great Council that these
things be testified of. It should be at-
tended to from this time. If there is any
lack, it may be at the expense of our
friends. This was the last R. S. meeting
that President Joseph Smith attended.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, Thursday, October
5, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Open-
ing hymn, “Glory to God on high,” pray-
er by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sister White
took charge of the singing, which was
furnished by the Granite Stake sisters.
Roll call. showing a large attendance of
representatives from the several Stakes.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made
an address in which she commended the
sisters for their good works and felt to
congratulate all on the splendid attend-
ance, as it was larger in numbers than at
any previons conference, felt proud of the
labors of the faithful sisters, and urged
them to take care of the youth of Zion
as well as to assist the needy and nurse
the sick. She realized the magnitude of
the work and its importance, and exhorted
one and all to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel and bear testimony of the
truth.
	Reports from presidents were called for
and President Mary John of Utah Stake,
gave a summary of the financial condi-
tion of the Society in that Stake, and re-
ferred to her recent serious illness and her
gratitude for her restoration to health
which enabled her to be present with us
today; spoke of the false teachers and
preachers rising up to lead the weak and
doubting ones astray.
	Sister Leah Blackburn reported Wayne
Stake in excellent condition.
	The sisters from Granite Stake rend-
ered the hymn composed by Sister Emily
H. Woodmansee, for the Relief Society
Jubilee, “Daughters of Zion, the friends
of the poor,” Sister Green leading, Sis-
ter Emilie Maeser accompanist.
	Relief Society Los Angelos branch was
reported by President Eliza Woollocott,
she stated they were differently situated
there from the sisters in Zion and conse-
quently their labors differed from ours,
they assisted the Elders and mission in
various ways, and were doing everything
possible to promote Gospel work; had
some hindrances, yet were prospered in
many respects.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber
Stake, spoke upon “Visiting and Healing
the Sick.” She referred first to the Sav-
ior's baptism, then related some of her
experiences in the Church and the inci-
dent concerning her baptism, and the
opposition that was raging at that time;
she had been given up by the physician,
etc., she was as one raised from the

[Column 2]
dead after the baptism; told many inter-
esting circumstances in her journeyings
in the Church when the power of God
was made manifest. and appealed to those
present to train their children in the true
Gospel, of which she bore a strong and
earnest testimony; believed that faithful
mothers' prayers would be answered in
regard to their children, when they do all
in their power to teach them right; en-
couraged all present to take part in the
work of the Relief Society; it would be of
the greatest benefit and would make
their daily duties lighter.
	Solo, Beatrice Thomas of Granite
Stake, “Not, Not There, my Child.”
	Singing, “Oh, Jesus, the Giver.” Ben-
ediction President Margaret A. Romney.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock, President
B. W. Smith presiding. Singing, Sister
Margaret C. Hull leading, “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” prayer Sister
Julia P, M. Farnsworth, singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee,”
accompanist, Sister Lizzie Thomas.
	President B. W. Smith greeted all with
a happy greeting, she was especially
pleased to see so many Relief Society
workers assembled, wanted them all to be
strong in the faith of the Gospel and teach
its principles to their children, generally
I think they do know it is right, remem-
ber we have it direct from the holy an-
gels through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
with the power and authority, and we
have the privilege to bless the sick and to
comfort those who are cast down, and it
is a great thing to have this testimony
ourselves, and that we keep the com-
mandments of God; let our religion be
first and foremost, and manifest that we
belong to the Church and kingdom of
God, I take more pleasure in hearing
others speak instead of speaking myself
and I believe in short speeches and short
prayers, I pray you may be comforted
and blessed, and continue faithful in our
most holy faith, and I bless you all.
Amen.
	President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake, gave quite a definite ac-
count of the conditions existing among
the people in that locality, there had been
much sickness and some deaths, spoke of
the financial status of the Relief Society;
they have two good halls and one in
course of erection, some wards own lots,
and expect to build in the near future;
felt the mothers' work an advantage and
hoped through that to reach the fathers
as well as the young mothers.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch
Stake, made a fine report of work done;
she referred to leaving Nauvoo in 1846 at
the time of the exodus, crossed the plains
in 1852, her father's family had endured
much hardship in the experiences of those
days.
	President Lilyus C. Page, of Nebo
Stake, reported the Stake in a flourishing
condition in a temporal way, building
halls, saving grain, making quilts and
homemade carpets; had visited the whole
Stake regularly; and the Tintic district
recently added to Nebo from Juab had
been visited once; the poor and sick were
well cared for and the union meetings
were held regularly on the same day as
the Priesthood meetings
	Duet, two young girls from Ensign
Stake, fine singers, Misses Poulton.
	Sister Hattie Blair, recently returned,
reported the branch in New York City,


[Column 1]
the work they do there is very important,
and has been very effective, she gave a
good account of the meetings and the
spread of the Gospel.
	President Addie Cazier of the Juab
Stake said they had taken up the Book
of Mormon since they got through the
mothers' work, she testified it had been a
blessing, they were anxious the young
mothers should join the society.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, referred to the great distances
they had to travel in visiting—a thousand
miles—and not a mile of railroad, they
were very proud of their Stake, much
credit is due the people for energy and
perseverance, they had a good opening in
the Muddy Valley, she had great hopes of
that country, the Lord had blessed them,
etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke on the spirit
of Relief Society work, giving her views
of the importance of entering into it with
one's whole soul, felt it was a wonderful
development for the sisters, the greatest
and grandest organization of women in
the world.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon
"Business Methods in the Home," Sister
Smith discussed this subject in all its
phases; asked the question, "What does
it take to establish any kind of business?"
Union and order, everyone should have
a share in the home, to do some of the
work; each one doing the part allotted to
her, etc.; thought there was a very great
difference between economy and stingi-
ness, spoke particularly upon the art of
bread making., and gave many useful,
suggestive hints on housekeeping.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
"There is no song but has a minor
strain," "The Echo."
	Choir sang "The trials of the present
day," etc. Benediction, President Annie
S. Musser.
	Conference  continued in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Monday, October 9, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Singing. (Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward having gracious-
consented to take charge of the singing.)
"Come let us anew," prayer by Sister
Mary A. C. Lambert, singing "Redeemer
of Israel."
	President B. W. Smiith, in her opening
remarks, welcomed all most cordially,
felt it a great pleasure to see the large
congregation of sisters, wished she could
take every one by the hand, but that
would take too long; she felt a great love
for them, and a desire to know each one
personally; spoke of her feelings when-
ever she heard the hymn, "Redeemer of
Israel," it reminded her of the time when
they were wandering on the desert land,
she and her sister, they had been sent
from the state, and felt indeed they were
wanderers and in sorrow, for the Prophet
Joseph was in prison, and no one knew
what would transpire—it was a time of
sadness. "I feel to bless you all, and say
Peace be unto you and in your homes,
and may we all prove faithful and true."
	President Annie Wells Cannon report-
ed the Relief Society of the Pioneer stake
for the first time, though they were or-
ganized a year ago last April, spoke of of
ficers' meetings being well attended,
thought President M. I. Horne and her
co-laborers had left the branches in such
order, that it had been comparatively easy
for those coming after them to take hold

[Column 2]
and carry on the work; thought the ward
conferences were a great benefit in get-
ting the society work before the people,
hoped that every woman in Zion would
have her name enrolled, "because it is a
roll of honor;" prayed we might increase
in numbers and have the blessing of the
Lord to help us in our labors.
	President Margaret A. Romney felt it
a great honor to represent the Ensign
stake, for it was in a thriving condition.
She used to think the 20th ward was the
best society, now she thought the seven
branches were all the best; they had
grand lectures on mother's work. Sister
Romney spoke highly of all the work in
the stake and of the help and support the
Relief society was to the Bishops, and
the appreciation they expressed of its
benefits.
	Solo by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward,
"The Divine Redeemer," music by Gounod.
	President Sarah A. Colton was glad to
be present and sorry not to have been
able to attend with us on Thursday; said
she had been called to preside in the
stake a year ago last May, but had been
President in Vernal ward sixteen years;
had a desire to assist in the upbuilding of
the society and to minister to the dis-
tressed and those bowed down with sor-
row and trials. They were reading chap-
ters from the Bible and giving Book of
Mormon lectures in the society meetings,
the sisters asking questions; they had tes-
timony bearing, and were striving to
make some progress; she was interested
in saving grain, thought some had been
wasted because of not having places to
keep it secure.
	President Alice J. Call, Star Valiey
stake, said in that stake they were in a
very scattered condition, some sisters
walk two and three and some six miles
to attend meetings. The attendance did
not average half the membership, but she
had great charity for those who did not
attend, because she knew the circum-
stances; it was not a grain country, the
wheat was often frozen before it was ripe,
and generally speaking the people had to
buy their flour; the Bishops all realize
the benefits of the Relief Society.
	President Annie S. Musser, of Liberty
stake, gave an excellent report of the
work in that stake, and how much the
sisters enjoyed their labors, praised the
teachers, and spoke enthusiastically of
the work of the Church in general, and
blessed the presiding sisters and all who
were laboring in the glorious work of the
Lord in these latter days; rejoiced in all
that was being done for the upbuilding of
Zion in the earth.
	Sister Emily J. Anderson, late president
of Tooels stake, reported the affairs of
the Relief Society there as being in good
condition; she had visited around the
stake recently; a number of quilts had
been made and sold to good advantage,
and some given to the poor, the money
used to build with of those sold, felt the
society was doing a good work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little gave an in-
structive lecture on the "Life of Christ,"
which we may hereafter publish in brief
if not in complete form.
	President B. W. Smith, at the close of
Sister Little's lecture, related an incident
in her own life. She said once when she
was real sick, the Prophet Joseph came
to see her; she was too bashful to ask
him to administer to her, but as he left

[Column 3]
he laid his hand on her head and she was
healed and got up well.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke upon
"Loyalty." Said to her the word had a
golden sound, felt that it is a great thing
to be true; in the family loyalty should
stand guard and each one true to the
other, and not allow the failings in the
home to go out. Referred to the course
pursued by some mothers of telling their
boys' bad actions; felt it was a bad prac-
tice; the boy's faults should be kindly re-
proved aside, not corrected before others.
In our Relief Society we should be true
and sustain each other, and be loyal. I
sometimes wonder if we are as loyal as
we ought to be to each other. It is our
bounden duty to pray earnestly for our
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and her counselors, and all who
work with her. It [-]s a pleasure to listen
to those who can stand up and say, I
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we
hope Sister Smith may live many years
to tell us of him, for he was a prophet
and a wonder. Now we are all filled with
loyalty to him and the work he estab-
lished. Think of the sorrow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith when he looked
among those who should have been his
friends and knew they were false. I am
sure it would have melted a heart of stone
to have listened to President Joseph F.
Smith yesterday at the close of the Con-
ference, when we had a baptism of bless-
ing from his mouth," closed by exhorting
all to be faithful and true.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt she owed
an apology for coming in late, but she
had been talking with strangers at the
Bureau of Information; said she had al-
ways attended the Conferences of the
Church ever since the days of "the bow-
ery," but had never attended a confer-
ence like the one yesterday. Surely
President Smith's testimony showed the
power of the Lord; thought no trials
were counted too great by her parents.
Let us teach our children the Gospel and
to attend to all the duties, and let us be
at our post always, and see that good men
are elected to govern, and use all our op-
portunities, and try to be a benefit; strive
to remember the blessings that come to
us through faith.
	"The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing" was sung by the congregation, led
by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward. Ben-
ediction by Sister Annie C. Woodbury.
	Conference adjourned until seven
o'clock at the same place.

		(To be continued.)
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake of Zion was held at Price,
October 31, 1905. The stake officers
were all present, also President John H.
Pace and Counselor Henry G. Mathis.
The conference began at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Sing-
ing' "How Firm a Foundation." Open-
ing prayer was offered by President John
H. Pace.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed
all and gave a short report of the Relief
society of Emery stake.
	President Henrietta Hill reported the
Wellington society. A vocal solo, "Lord
Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray," was
rendered by Sister Nellie Wilson of Price.
	A lecture on "Infancy," from Mother's


Plan Work, was ably and interestingly
given by Sister Lucinda C. Curtis, of Or-
angeville. A report of the Castle Gate
society was given by President Elizabeth
Young, who also gave some of her early
experiences in the Church.
	President Henry G. Mathis spoke of
Relief society work in general and the
good that is being done by the same.
Singing, "Praise to the Man who Com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Secretary Maria Allen.
	Afternoon session at 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Invocation by
Sister Anna Miller. Singing, etc. Roll
called and seven Relief society branches
represented. Secretary Allen read the
minutes of the previous conference, also
the stake financial report for the year
ending Dec. 31, 1904, which were unani-
mously accepted.
	Instrumental music rendered by Sister
Violet Flack of Price.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King spoke
on the duties of officers and members of
the Relief society. President Rhoda
E. Robertson reported the Orangeville
society. A vocal solo was rendered by
Sister Griffiths of Castle Gate. Counselor
Maria Guymon spoke on a mother's du-
ties to her family, and keeping the Sab-
bath day holy. Elder  Robert Green-
wood, of Price, on missionaries and Re-
lief society work. Elder H. E. Curtis, of
Orangeville, on the raising and training
of children.
	Secretary Maria Allen spoke of the
General Conference and visiting the Dr.
Groves' L, D. S. hospital.
	President John H. Pace spoke on punc-
tuality. 
	Bishop Ernest S. Horsley, of Price, ad-
vised all to teach children to remember
the important events of their lives.
	Stake President Mary A. Sorenson
thanked all present, and especially the
Price sisters, for helping to make the con-
ference a success.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," etc. Benediction by Sister
Isabella Bryner.
	MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US

IN MEMORIAM.
MARY WARREN.
"Like weary and worn out children, that sigh for
	the daylight's close,
He knows that they oft are longing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows o'er them creep,
And silently watching o'er them. He giveth His
	loved ones sleep."

	She has gone! As the news spread over the little
town, it carried sadness to the hearts of her many
friends. Though we knew she had gone to her
long earned rest, our hearts were touched; for we
hated to say "good bye" to one we loved so
dearly.
	Sister Mary Ancox Warren passed away Novem-
ber 2nd, 1905, at her daughter's residence, Mrs.
Kate Day, of Oasis.
	She was born in Tyson, Middlesex, England,
December 21st, 1824; baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1844;
came to Utah in 1874. She was the wife of Ed-
ward Warren and mother of fourteen children,
seven of whom are living.
	It is twenty-two years since Mrs. Warren was
separated from her mate, whose life blended so
harmoniously with hers. We must be content
when we know that our loss means some one's
gain. She has lived with her daughter, Mrs. Day,
since her husband's demise.
	Sister Warren's one great desire was to serve
God and work in His kingdom. She knew His
teachings well and never lost an opportunity of
expounding His principles and praising His good-
ness  She labored for many years as president of
the Oasis Relief Society, always alive to her duty
and putting forth such effort in her work that her
light shone and every member of the society felt
its radiance. She was honorably released from
this position on account of the responsibility being
too gre[-]t for her health, which was not good.
	Mrs. Warren never tired in well doing, she re-
mained an active teacher in the ward until the
time of her death. She was a woman of great
strength of character and executive ability. We
shall miss her words of counsel, cheer and comfort;
For we know her many loving deeds and appre-
ciate her many noble qualities, which will ever 
live in the memory of her friends.
	May her bereaved sons and daughters be com-
forted in the assurance that their mother is not 
dead, but has gone to continue her labors in a
higher and better world. 	D.H.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	  Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
	  The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
 	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
	  We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


MOTHER'S WORK
		KANAB STAKE.
				I.
	(a) Self-culture for mothers. (b) What
the result will be upon the children.
				II.
	(a) Child helplessness. (b) Necessity of
care and patience.
				III.
	(a) Child confidence. (b) How it should
be rewarded.
				IV.
	(a) Child helpfulness. (b) What trait
of character may it not develop?
				V. 
	(a) Child's love for stories. (b) What
kind of stories to be told. (c) True
stories preferable.


VI. 
(a) Child's desire for knowledge. (b)
Asking questions. (c) Parents should
seek to answer all questions to the under-
standing of the child. 
			VII. 
(a) What to teach our boys. (b) How
to be pure in their lives. (c) How to 
treat the opposite sex. 
			VIII.
(a) What to tell our girls. (b) To
have confidence in mother. (c) How to 
conduct themselves in the presence of 
young men.
			IX. 
(a) Peace making. (b) Value of peace 
at home and with neighbors. (c) Love
your neighbors—do unto them as you 
would have them do unto you. (d) Ev-
ils of backbiting.
	Cleanliness in person and the home.
			XI.
		INDUSTRY.
(a) Value of moments. (b) Economy
of time and means.
			XII
		PUNCTUALITY.
(a) Always on time. (b) Cultivate hab-
its of punctuality.
		PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
Kanab Relief Society.


MAY TEACHERS MARRY?
	We are inclined to smile when we read 
that the resident Fellows in an English 
university are forbidden to marry, and
memory instantly reverts to the long mo-
nastic tradition which is even yet  in con-
trol of education there. But what think
ye, my masters, of the fact that that same
monastic tradition obtains in practically 
all the public schools of the entire United 
States, or rather did obtain there until
the Court of Appeals of New York hand-
ed down a decision a few days ago, deny-
ing the right of the Brooklyn School
Board to enforce its by-law to the effect 
that "should a female principal, head of
department, or teacher marry, her place 
shall thereupon be declared vacant"
The court held that there was no author-
ity in the school board to make or en-
force any law at all on the subject, and 
so put an end to enforced celibacy in
education in one small section of our
country; but it still obtains almost every- 
where else. 
	Celibacy in education is an awful 
thing; it takes the woman out of life to
make her a school teacher. It forbids 
her to have children of her own in order
that she may go on teaching other peo-
ple's children. If she marries, she is
driven out of the school room, though
the mother-and-child relation is the very
one that should best fit her for the work
of teaching. What an unlovely calling
this is which forbids the bulk of those
who follow it to lead a normal human 
life! Is it any wonder that most people
hesitate to enter upon it, knowing that it
involves the taking of all three of the


monastic vows—poverty, obedience and 
celibacy? What an awful thing it is to 
follow a profession that one must desert 
just as soon as she begins to live nor-
mally! Yet the t[-]me is coming, and it is 
not far off, either, when the married wo-
man will no longer be driven out of the 
school room, but will be at a premium
there.
	Dr. Harris seems to think that there 
are none but celibates teaching now. He 
says that "no teacher has a right to com-
plain on a socialistic basis if he is receiv-
ing a salary for his annual services, of 
$600," since the income of the nation is 
only $551.56 per inhabitant.—Western
Journal of Education.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1906						No. 7


CONTENTS.
Relief Society Annual Greeting—Bathsheba
	W. Smith...............................................	41
Lecture Given on Mothers' Work—Ella
	Woolf Baxter........................................	42
R.S. Reports.................................................	42
The Sea of Galilee.....................L. D. Alder	43
Passing Thoughts...........................A. W. C.	46
In Memoriam...............................................	46
Obituary.......................................................	46
Relief Society Reports.................................	47
EDITORIAL:—Correction—Notice to Stake Sec-
	retaries—The Holiday Season—A
	A Hundred Years of Progress..............	44
	Editorial Notes....................................	46
POETRY:—To Our Remaining Veterans..L.
	L. Green Richards...............................	41
	Christmas Bells...................G. I. Frost	43
	No Farewell.................Lydia D. Alder	43
	Some Day........................Ledia Marler	43
	Oregon Mine.................Maud Bagerly	43


TO OUR REMAINING VETERANS.

Ye aged, honored Saints who knew
	The Prophet Joseph Smith in life;
Who with the Church are proving true,
	’Mid all the hardships, toils and strife
It has passed and is passing through,
	Dear faithful ones, I reverence you!

You listened to his voice, its tone.
	When he proclaimed the things of God;
Your feet have touched the turf, the stone,
	Whereon the Prophet’s feet have trod;
The warm clasp of his hand you've known,
	Your eyes have looked into his own,

What writer now can catch the glow
	That inspiration’s fire must lend,
And cause with eloquence to flow
	Such living words as have been penned,
By those who did the Prophet know—
	Phelps, Taylor, Pratt and E. R. Snow?

I deem it yet a privilege grand,
	A blessing which I value much,
That I may sometimes clasp a hand,
	That knew the Prophet’s kind true touch;
And more that I can understand
	The truth he taught by God’s command.

Ye veterans speak, where’er ye may,
	And testify of Joseph still;
The clouds of unbelief, today,
	Which shroud the earth, ’tis Satan’s will
Should blind, and lead our youth astray—
	God save them—roll the mists away!

God make the youth of Zion strong!
	Ye veterans, help us pray this prayer;
That they may triumph over wrong,
	And by their lives the truth declare;
The clouds are dense, the way seems long,
	Where Satan and his servants throng.

Yet God is powerful today,
	As when His youthful Prophet rose,
And dared His mandates to obey,
	And by His death o’ercame his foes.
O Lord, Thy power and love display,
	And turn the flood of doubt away!

God bless the man and woman too,
	With silvered hair and furr wed cheek,
Who lived at Kirtland or Nauvoo—
	And all who hearken while they speak,
And testify they saw and knew,
	That Joseph was a Prophet true!
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
Dec. 1905.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GREETING.

PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH ADDRESS-
	ES ASSOCIATE WORKERS IN ALL
			THE WORLD.

List to the sound—that rolling chime,
Hark! ’tis the busy knell of Time;
The year has gone,
And borne along the hopes and fears,
The smiles and tears of multitudes unknown to
	song. 
					E. R. SNOW.
	The closing year of 1905, which is the
hundredth birthday of the Prophet stirs
my mind with a multitude of thoughts.
	In fancy I go back to my childhood and
youth in Virginia—Elders come crying,
“Repent and be baptized for the king-
dom of heaven is at hand,” and, as of 
yore, I am stirred with the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel of Christ;
once again I gather with the Saints in 
Missouri, and hear the horrid yells of the
mobbers as Joseph and Hyrum are cap-
tured by them. I see the wounded and
dying; I am driven from Missouri, but
meet with joy at Quincy, in a conference
of the Church, Joseph and Hyrum, and
the Apostles, who are there called to
to labor in Europe.
	The Prophet I recall and his wondrous
spiritual power, intelligence loving kind-
ness, and great goodn[-]ss of heart! His
sermons, sayings, the organization of our
own Relief Society in 1842. His revela-
tions, persecutions, martyrdom and the
grief of the Saints thereat. There is
little left save our homes and families in
this world, but the Gospel becomes even
more to me: now follows the burning of
our homes and the forced exodus from
Nauvoo in the dead of winter. The ele-
ments rage upon and about us, but we
are able to endure, to rest at last, though
in the shadow of death, as it were, for 
here we part with a multitude of our
loved ones. But, rising from our weak-
ness, in obedience to the servants of the
Most High, we proceed, crossing trackless
plains, fording swollen streams, scaling
rugged mountain heights, and descending
into “The Valley,” to find rest from per-
secution and comfort in the desert.
	All the events of those trying years
unite today, revealing to me in the even-
ing of life, the overshadowing importance
of the plan of salvation. A comforting
message from the Giver of all good seems
to give me this sweet assurance that 
nought that was suffered and nought that
was accomplished, no matter how dear
the price, was without avail; yea, our
wounds were seared over with wisdom,
pain gave birth to patience, and our mar-
tyred Saints rose, peradventure, our best
petitioners in the courts above.
	And I am convinced that it were bet-
ter to be faithful and enduring to the end
showing worthiness in overmastering self
and upholding the standard of truth, than
to rest in apathy and ease, forgetful of 
God and unmindful of the weak, the 
weary and desolate.

[Column 2]
	It is good to reflect on the past, but
beyond and above its shades of sorrow,
and errors, our duty ever rises before
us.

	Soothe the sad, succor the oppressed,
	Visit the widow and the fatherless.

	To go from house to house, seeking out 
the poor, the cast down, minister to the
sick, lay out the dead, gathering and dis-
tributing, as you ha[-]e done, my sisters,
for so many years, gifts and donations for
relief. 
	And yet we have a larger mission—to
teach the mother to rear her young in
simplicity and in truth and virtue, that
happy home circles may abound in our
midst.
	And yet we have still a greater mission.
We faint not in our efforts to teach 
others but display a great lack of true re-
ligion, when our own faults remain un-
mended. When will we learn that the 
beam is in our own eye and the mote only
disturbs the vision of our neighbor. 
	We are called upon by the still small
voice, a whispering from our Father, to 
work out our own salvation.
	Briefly the constructive parts of the
plan of salvation are these: What man
is, God once was, what God is now, man
may be; the glory of God is intelligence.
Nothing can be annihilated and no act
lost. It is impossible to be saved in ig-
norance. The Spirit of God, which is 
the Holy Ghost and the comforter, sur-
rounds us and pervades the universe, and
is the medium by which we may receive
the inspiration of God toward intelligence
and through which it is our right to re-
ceive comfort; and finally that Faith
Hope and Charity are necessary for 
Divine Grace but that the greatest of these
is charity!
	Therefore it is plainly necessary that
women as well as men, cease not while
life lasts to study diligently, for the know-
ledge which is of greatest worth. To me
the best step towards this is for us to 
throw off the cu se of drudgery by learn-
ing to do our work so well, that we will
love to do it and have cause for rejoicing
over the achievements of our hands.
	Let us learn of the handiwork of God
by the study of nature, search out her
flowers, her moods, her laws. Let us 
study to improve our thoughts, reaching
up toward our Heavenly Father, praying
for the inspiration of the Holy Ghost.
	Let us improve our language in our
homes and among our children that our
words be not idle complaining nor vain,
but as nothing can be lost, cheerful, hope-
ful, intelligent, reflecting a charitable
spirit.
	Let us open the books of life and sal-
vation, and study also the great authors
poets and painters, that our minds may
be clothed with intelligence and our
hearts abound with human feeling.
	And here I am inclined to offer a 
thought for the year’s work before us.
With our multifarious duties we may not
be able to call upon some aged or invalid


sister, to cheer her, but we may lend her
a book to read at pleasure, and peradven-
ture to the strengthening of her purpose,
the cheering of her life and the edification
of her mind. Likewise after reading a
good book, pass it to a sister saying I
commend this book to you. It has in-
structed me and may edify you, and when
you have read, return, that I may lend
again.
	Another thought: Having done your
part well be satisfied to relinquish the
load to some stronger woman when you
become weary.
	And now my sisters, God's choicest
blessings be upon you, and peace be with
you.
		      BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
   President of the Church Relief Society
in all the World.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LECTURE GIVEN ON MOTHER’S WORK.
	HYRUM STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The law of chastity should be observed
and we as parents are commanded to keep
our bodies undefiled and pure.
	Every wise and loving parent should de-
sire to bestow on their offspring whole-
ness and soundness in every part. No
one would think of conducting a common
primary school without an order of exer-
cises, and such a program of studies as
shall by progressive steps cover the whole
ground desired within the allotted time.
If the class or school was left to chance
or to the impulse of the moment it is pret-
ty certain much would be overlooked and
neglected, and much done out of place to
little purpose.
	It is important, then, that our habits
and traits and impulses should be such as
will bless and not curse our offspring, im-
portant to have all these sources of influ-
ences wholly on the side of nobleness
virtue and beauty of character in all re-
spects. To this end does it not behoove
every one who aspires to the God-like
honor of begetting a being in his or her
own likeness to first enter in thorough
and earnest upon the work of self-
improvement, self-discipline and moral
and spiritual purification? Can any
stronger motive of self-improvement be
presented to a conscientious person than
this consideration affords? We cannot
start too early in life to begin this work.
	Every child has rights which are as
sacred as those of any other being, and
among these is the right to be well-born.
This hardly need be said, except for the
thoughtlessness that often exists on the
subject, of the forming and nurturing a
young immortal being that is to enjoy or
suffer throughout its existence, and that
is to bless or curse its fellows on earth,
through unknown generations, according
to the characteristics stamped on it by
its parents.
	Parents should realize the responsibili-
ty involving upon them, and should act
with intelligent forethought and should
make the best preparation in themselves
and their surroundings.
	In the past so little regard has been
paid to the finer laws of adaptation, tem-
poral and spiritual, and so seldom has the
sacred right of the mother been delicate-
ly respected.

[Column 2]
	A child’s birthright includes a full lov-
ing welcome to the world; without this,
what a pitiable object is a child!
	There is aid at hand to help us if we
successfully seek and apply the agencies
within our reach. We must cease to use 
our stomachs and digestive powers for 
hot bread, pastry, greasy food and highly
spiced dishes. We must abstain from
narcotic and alcholic beverages, which
under the guise of stimulating only weak-
en and lower the tone of the nervous
system, creating a demand for more and 
more of the same deceptive stimulus un-
til the unfortunate victim comes to im-
agine them necessaries of life.
	We must have our homes and apart-
ments well ventilated, and we should con-
tent ourselves with the simple, nutritious,
healthy food, chiefly from the vegetable
kingdom, including cereals, fruits and
nuts which experience shows most con-
ducive to bodily soundness, mental vigor
and moral purity.

	Thought and feeling should also be pure
and elevating, there are reasons for be-
lieving that many physical and moral dis-
eases have their origin in impure
thoughts and evil passions. It is well known
that good-will, and generous affections
tend to promote health of body and 
mind, It may take several generations of
careful training and study on our part to
rid ourselves of the incorrect ideas and
practices that we have inherited, but
there should be a steady upward march.
Each generation should be an improve-
ment on its predecessor; we have been
called of God to gather out from Baby-
lon, and one of the main objects being
that we may be a purer and more perfect
people.
	There are things we should teach our
children from the heart, and which should
be accompanied by the spirit and power
of God, they are purity of thought and
life, correct habits and everything that
furnishes the child with a good, solid,
moral endowment. The work of per-
fecting ourselves may be delayed through
our not using the agencies at hand, but it
must be pushed forward if we would be
the people the Lord designed us to be.
The work is before us, and we may as
well apply ourselves with intelligence and
zeal. It is our highest duty as parents to
give our children our best thought and
attention, for the Lord has given them
as a precious trust, and if we allow them
to go astray through our neglect the con-
sequence will be serious. The personal
companionship of parents is of exceeding
value to our boys and girls, they should
have in their mother a friend, a playmate
and a companion, and should be on
the most intimate terms, so there will be
no concealment on the part of the child
in thought or action. Young people lack
experience, they are exposed to many
evils and fall frequently into many snares
which if their parents understood they
would be able to guard them against.
	Cleanliness is a part of our religion, we
are told that the Spirit of God will not 
dwell in an unclean tabernacle; this ap-
plies to the outside as well as the inside.
Many little children do not regard it as
any great pleasure, washing or being 
washed, but their pride should be ap-
pealed to, they should be made ashamed

[Column 3]
of a dirty face, then there will be no
trouble to have them keep clean. Let 
the sunshine stream in our houses, health
is more consequence than carpets; par-
rents should set the example in all these
matters, and the children will grow up in
an atmosphere of purity and cleanliness
and they will learn to shun everything
unclean and impure, and will take pleas-
ure in observing the laws of health with
the greatest care.
	In fact, to be pure in the sight of the
Lord great self denial is required through
life. The body and its appetites and de-
sires must be brought in subjection to the
spirit. If we could impress on our chil-
dren’s minds the wrong and injurious
effects of tea, coffee, tobacco and intox-
icating drinks and keep them from touch-
ing them, so they would not know the
taste of these articles while they are
growing, when they are grown they would
not crave them, and children brought up
free from the taste would not need to 
practice self-denial in this direction, but
would practice self-control instead, so as
not to taste them.
	Mothers too frequently let their little
children sip the tea and sometimes a little
beer that they themselves have been
drinking, and they think it is very innocent,
they do not think that by doing this they
are creating in their children the taste for
these beverages which may prove a 
plague to them through the rest of their 
lives. Teach them the importance of ab-
staining entirely from these things, and
have them understand the counsel which
the Lord Himself has given respecting 
them.
	Duty is always preferable to indulgence.
			ELLA WOOLF BAXTER.


R. S. REPORT.
	ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
St. Joseph Stake convened at Thatcher,
Dec. 1, 1905, president Elizabeth Layton
presiding. There were nine members of
the Relief Society Stake Board present,
the three Stake Presidency, and other
leading brethren of the Stake. We have
fourteen branches of the Society in the
Stake, but owing to the long distance re-
cent storms and high water, the eight
outlying small wards were not represent-
ed, yet our attendance was very good.
At the close of the morning meeting, we
retired to a building near by where the
Thatcher Society had lunch prepared for
all. The statistical and financial reports
were received from all the branches in
the Stake, and our yearly report was read
which shows an increase in membership,
also in the average attendance, The
main subjects spoken on were, punctuality
order in our Church assemblies, and the
storing of wheat.
	The last named subject is one that has
caused much discussion, and still we have
not been able to find any plan of keep-
ing our wheat more than two years with-
out handling it, and often then we have
sustained great loss from the weavil. Our
conference was the best ever held in the
Stake. Both meetings were enlivened by
choice vocal and instrumental selections.
	FANNIE W. KIMBALL,
	Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CHRISTMAS BELLS.
BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Christmas bells are chiming––
	“Peace on earth good will to man,”
Glory to God in the highest,
	And unto the great “I Am,”

Great tho’ so humble His advent,
	Not a place could he find for His head,
Save a manger—the meanest of cradles, 
	Where oftimes the cattle had fed. 

Great, tho’ through life with the lowly He
		walked,
	Scorned, insulted, rejected by men, 
The least in the kingdom of heaven,
	Accounted more worthy by them.

And great, ah, so great! were His teachings.
	That down thro’ the ages they roll,
Bringing joy, peace, long suffering and meek-
		ness
	To those who His doctrine extol.

Ring on Christmas bells!
	Sound your praises?
To Christ and His Father above.
Who gave us poor erring creat[-]res,
	The heavenly message of love.


NO FAREWELL.
BY LYDIA D. ALDRR.

Edith, my love, I bid thee no farewell,
	To go means but to return, some other day,
	The while. through showers and sun, flowers
		bloom more gay,
	The green tints deepen in the leafy dell.

Change now has come,our paths in life must part;
	But winding ever, they will meet again.
	Sometime, somewhere, in pleasure, not in pain
Together they will flow, dear heart, dear heart.

Ere time was measured we, 'mong morning stars
	Sang peans as the world rolled out in space;
	All there were of the royal, princely race,
Yet could we not see clear, through heaven's bars.

To us unknown, the power, the depth of love,
	For contrast had no meaning for us yet—
	We saw the shining world—dost thou forget?—
And deathless stars, like jewels, interwoven.

To go, to tread the outstretched grassy way,
	All else we thought as nothing—glad to leave—
	How could we feel the cross, see things that
		grieve,
	For glamor of the bright, eternal day?

We, o'ver heaven's ramparts peeped, it seemed not 
		far,
	Nor hard for us the dazzling crown to win,
	For in our hearts was never thought of sin—
No shadow there that could the landscape mar.

I held thy hand—for thou wast near to me—
	While gazing on the glorious sphere in sight;
	The way defined, the end a blaze of light
And glory, that again, some day we'll see.

We importuned, and at the last are here,
	Love, now we know has many thorns and tears,
	And disappointments throng the passing years;
And all we prize full oft lies on the bier.

Now, like as Gods, the bitter-sweet we know,
	The corresponding care of every joy;
	Can segregate the gold from base alloy,
And love this life, foreknowledge did bestow.

Then count but gain all things we have to bear;
	If sorrow comes, then it is well to weep;
	If joy, then this remembrance ever keep,
To learn, to know, we left the realms o'er there.

Congenial hearts, are those we knew before;
	'Tis but a veil drawn close before our eyes,
	That all the glory hides of Paradise—
A moment, and we'll dwell there evermore.

A child no longer, as in days of old;
	Celestial home, we prize thee, know thy cost—
	We wandered in the world and were not lost;
Again, O joy! we walk in streets of gold.


SOME DAY
		BY LELIA MARLER. 

The sun at last has dropped behind the moun-
		tains,
	The noisy echoes of the town are stilled,
The tired workers to their homes are going,
	Their weary tasks have been fulfilled.

When hushed the clamor of the busy city, 
	And wrapped in quietude is every mill,
Then venture forth the cricket, bat and night bird,
	With homely melodies the air to fill. 

And as the dreamer at the lattice window, 
	Disheartened with the worries of the day,
Arrays in vivid pictures a bright future, 
	A whisper’s heard, “It will be thine some day.”

“Some day,” ah, yes, the word is full of sweet-
		ness;
	It whispers hope to mortals sore and tried;
We lisp it, and we think of what ’twill bring us;
	’Tis easy then our present griefs to hide.

“Some day!” the word has in it tender pathos,
	Will it bring forth our broken vases filled
With tokens from friends lost now returning?
	Will every broken promise be fulfilled?

Will every tender gift and loving whisper
	Assume again its value, as at first?
Will we some day be given in full measure
	The love for which our hearts are now athirst?

Will we be understood by those around us?
	Will our true motives be unveiled at last?
And will all falseness, doubt and misdirection
	Then to the wild and furious winds be cast?

“Some day!” ah, may it not be too far distant,
	When vaguest hopes shall finally be real.
Our hearts then understood, the past forgiven, 
	A tender sacred kiss to serve as seal.


OREGON MINE.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

Misty and blue, the firs of Mount Tabor
	The glory of sunset crimsoning the west,
The warm ocean breeze, the sea’s benediction,
	Stirs gently the forest, then lulls it to rest.

Now, the streets of an alien city;
	Mountains bare and high;
The far off gleam of an inland sea,
Instead of the river rushing free;
	And the blue of an alien sky.

Oh, for the sound of the wind in the fir trees;
	The down-sift ng gold of the sun thro’ the pine,
And the dear Willamette dimpling in sunshine,
	Oh, Oregon, Oregon mine!

To the land where Thy people dwell,
	Thy hand of mercy hath led,
Thy will shall be done while life doth last
	But oh, when I am dead
Wilt Thou let me sleep the long, long sleep
	With the friends I loved in youth,
Where the golden hours of childhood fled
	And the world seemed bright with truth?
		When I am dead!


[Column 1]
	THE SEA OF GALILEE
O, Galilee sweet Galilee,
	Where Jesus loved so much to be;
O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	An inspiration comes with the sweet
notes of this song, when sung by choir or
congregation, but it is intensified, even
thrilling when they float far away, and
away, over the bosom of that beautiful
sea.
	Think of Galilee, where Jesus taught
the multitude on its shore; where he
called, Peter, Andrew, James and John
the fishermen, who gained a livelihood in
its waters, saying, “follow me, and I will
make you fishers of men.”
	As we sail oyer this sacred sea, visiting

[Column 2]
Capernaum, Bethsaida and Magdala, and
passing the land of the Gergesesenes,
where the swine, possessed of the evil
spirits ran down into the sea, from the
other boats the melody is wafted on the
stilly air.
	O, Galilee, sweet Galilee.
	Where Jesus loved so much to be.
	And those days seem to be here, those
scenes of the present.
	Once, long ago, the apostles were row-
ing across the sea the Savior asleep in the
boat, when suddenly a storm arose and
they, fearing a watery grave, called to
him, “to save or we perish.”
	Wearied he slept heeding neither winds
or waves, but at their call he arose, and
rebuked the storm, saying to the angry
sea, “Peace, be still.”
	A feeling of restfulness and peace, is
there, over Galilee. Though nearly two
thousand years have elapsed since then,
the spirit of peace, seems hovering over
both sea and shore.
	Yes, Galilee was loved by Jesus, and
many mighty works, he performed there.
Peter and his companions thought him a
spirit, when they in the boat saw him
walking out to them on the water, and
Peter, so venturesome, yet having little
faith would have perished, had not Jesus
saved him.
	Often Jesus was weary, with preaching
and teaching, the spirit of man was so un-
responsive to his own, that it weighed
heavily upon him, or he grieved for their
weakness, or yearned over them as they
followed him, that he sailed away from
them, to find the rest, that he so much
required.
	O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	The first sight one catches of Galilee, is
so beautiful! The water is a peculiar
shade of light blue, the bluest ever seen.
On descending the hills to Tiberias, the
paint on hotels and houses is of the same
color. No wonder the song extols, “Blue
Galilee,” but sailing on its shining bosom
lo, the water is green, green as can be!
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	Yes, sing your songs, they are melod-
ious as no other songs can be, for no
others, were ever like unto them. The
pebbly shore, the cloud flecked sky, the
dreamy hills, all sing of Jesus, who loved
to be here, so much.
	Here he returned after his resurrection
visiting once again beloved Galilee.
Where are the hosts, who once lived
round about? Where the fishermen with
heavy nets of fish? Gone, all are gone.
Not a voice is heard, not a form to be
seen.
	Scarcely a sound comes even from
Tiberias, with its synagogues and mosques,
whose noonday call to prayer, only sounds
as a babble. Deserted, a mist rising be-
tween the sea and shore, this is Galilee.
	The actors in its past, visit the sea no
more, the heavens have received them,
and in the earth are hidden, the glories
of Christ’s day. But a restoration day
and a resurrection day, await this beloved
spot of Christ’s earthly ministry.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		JANUARY, 1906


CORRECTION.
	In the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, November
number, 1905, in the article republished
from the Jubilee report given March 17,
1892, we find an error which we feel 
should be corrected. The paragraph al-
luded to reads thus:
	“President Smith stated that the meet-
ing was called for the purpose of making
more complete the organization of the 
Church by organizing the women in the 
order of the Priesthood.” We find by 
comparing it with the original record no 
such statement was made.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The Stake secretaries of the Relief
Society are reminded that the yearly re-
ports are to be made for the year 1905,
from January 1, to December 31, and it
will be a good thing to give notice to all
the branches in the respective stakes so
that there may be a full and complete
record, noting all the changes in officers,
new branches organized, condition of
grain stored as well as the amount on
hand; number of buildings in the stake,
owned by the Society, etc. Address
General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
		THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	The holiday weeks are to most people of
mature years, a time of thoughtfulness, if
the festivities of the season give them
time to think, although some people have
have had to accustom themselves to think-
ing in a crowd. But seriously speaking,
reminiscences of other days, and other
associations, will come up, staring at one
as it were and shutting out the present
view, filling it with pictures long since
hidden away. One might well exclaim
with Byron, when one is in the midst of
a festive scene—“What business have
they there at such a time?”
	We see not the things around us, but
the old friends, the old scenes in which
we were wont to mingle, and we recall
vividly the familiar faces and the voices
of dear ones.

	“I call to mind, but cannot find,
		The friends I loved so well.
	Where have ye fled, ye vanished?
		I ask, ye do not tell.”

[Column 2]
	Heber C. Kimball used to say holidays
were “hollow days,” and it is in many 
instances too true.
	We think of the departed, who were
once with us; our beloved associates,
whose faces we see no more except in
dreams, and yet they have left their im-
press upon us, and the work in which we
who are here are still engaged. How
many familiar names come to our re-
membrance. Sometimes we wonder what
they would think if they were with us
now, times have so changed; the things
we formerly were in the habit of doing
are not done in this day of invention and
ingenuity, machinery and electricity. In
view of this we ought to have more lei-
sure, but it is not so; the busy housewife
of today is even more hurried than of
yore, when she made her own soap and
candles and sewed by hand; and carded,
spun and wove, and cooked over the fire
without a range, or even a stove.  Now
in even ordinary homes there is a range,
a sewing machine, much of the clothing
is bought ready-made; there are washing
machines, bread mixers, electric flat irons,
electric lights, etc., etc., and yet we are
not satisfied, and complain there is no
time to be polite, to be sociable. We
live in a whirl, as it were, many of us in a
constant excitement, that is neither good
for the soul or the body, nor for the chil-
dren, born or unborn. And yet we would
not like to go back to primitive methods.
We call these days progressive, and it is
true in the sense of science, invention
and new methods; and perhaps if people
could adjust themselves to all these won-
derful improvements, and take a little
time to reflect and bring themselves into
harmony with the new-fangled customs,
and appurtenances, it might tend to a
higher state of civilization, and even ac-
tual enjoyment of the good gifts vouch-
safed to us from a divine Father.
	Children especially are simply crammed
not only with sweetmeats and toys, etc.,
but the schools are cramming them with
book learning; and ambitious parents and
teachers and the world at large look on
and applaud, and prizes are offered for
competition, to stimulate the already
overworked brain of the growing child. 
Perhaps it is a blessing that a respite
comes at Christmas time, if it was in
reality a rest, but in most cases, although
it is a change from regular duties, it is
even more strenuous than the daily occu-
pations: parties, theatres, operas, games
outdoors and in, late hours less sleep
and such, an abundance of feasting and
festivity in which children are sometimes
made the chief participants. These are
some of the things that would appal our
forefathers and mothers of a century ago.
The question “Whither are we drifting?”
might be asked at the present time.
	It is true we have more advantages
than heretofore; we can travel hither and
yon, and life under such favorable con-
ditions ought to be a splendid success to
mankind in general; but there are more
failures than formerly; the homes full of
plenty do not suffice, and when the home
is wrecked, all is lost comparatively
speaking.
	One really can say this is an age of ac-
tivity in many directions; men are build-
ing great monumental structures, so high
and so heavy are many of the buildings,
etc., that if the earth were a thin crust,

[Column 3]
as some of the ancients imagined, they
would break through. But joking aside,
the stupendous works of men in recent
years demand the admiration of the
world, the great naval ships, propelled
by steam, and ships of commerce and
travel, the tremendous bridges, archways,
canals and highways, that require talent
of no ordinary kind to construct; the
great railways, through wildernesses and
mountain passes are marvels in workman-
ship.
	What would the primitive peoples who
fed their flocks on the plains of Judea,
think of these wonders. And yet we are
told the Great Pyramids of Egypt surpass
any modern structure with all our boast-
ing. And when we talk of higher civiliz-
ation, of excellence in literature and arts
and crafts, we are referred to Greece and
Rome, and are told that even now the
works of Homer and Horace surpass
anything of modern date; and that De-
mosthenes and Cicero were greater than
any orators since that period; but of all
the great structures only the Pyramids
stand as silent witnesses, though doubt-
less many wonderful monuments of great-
ness lie buried in the bowels of the earth,
that fires or wars could not altogether
destroy. So after all, notwithstanding
the boast of the nineteenth century, men
are not wholly prepared to compare the
works of their hands with those of other
periods. The magnificence of Solomon’s
Temple was perhaps greater and more
sublime than St. Peter’s or any of more
modern date, but now-a-days monetary
craze would hardly admit of so much
gold, silver and precious stones being
used for building a House to the Name of
the Lord, even in which to worship Him
who created all things in heaven and 
in earth. 
	The New Year has dawned and signifi-
cantly prosperous for the people on this
western hemisphere at least, and for the
Latter-day Saints most auspiciously. In
the midst of plenty, increasing in numbers
and spreading abroad in the land, build-
ing up waste places and improving in
many ways, advancing towards that time
when closer bonds of brotherhood shall
unite all interests temporal as well as 
spiritual. With such bright prospects
great advancement ought to be made this
present year. All the good resolutions
made in the early days of this present 
month should find fulfillment, and even
more achieved than one dared to expect.
Let us believe in the accomplishment of
every righteous ambition. With faith in
God and the utmost energy and activity, 
what can hinder the progress towards 
higher and better things. Will and de-
termination on the part of individuals is
in itself uplifting, “Never give up,” is a
good motto for us all. Adversity is good
discipline; many of our people have found
this to be true, but whether sorrows or
joys come to the saints, they should not
despond, knowing as they do that the re-
ligion they have embraced is true, and
God is at the helm, though the world
frown and look down upon this people,
yet the knowledge of the truth should 
hold them firm to the ship Zion, that
though tossed upon high waves, or stand-
ing still in a calm sea, will ride triumph-
ant over all and land its precious cargo in
a safe harbor. At present everything
points to a brilliant future for this pecu-


liar people, whom the Lord has called to
bring about his divine purposes. The
prophecies of ancient and modern proph-
ets are being fulfilled, and in this the Lat-
ter-day Saints are having their personal
discipline and experiences, and may look
for greater events than have yet trans-
pired in the history of the world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A HUNDRED YEARS OF PROGRESS.

		THE BOY PROPHET.
	One hundred years ago, in an obscure
town in the Green Mountain State, Ver-
mont, a baby boy first saw the light of 
day; this babe, as we know now, was
destined to bring about great changes in
the religious world and in the lives and 
fortunes of many peoples; changes for
the betterment of physical conditions as
well as to teach great truths with the 
wisdom not of books, or the learning 
gained from great teachers familiar with
sciences, or from men of higher educa-
tion, but with the understanding quick-
ened by the Holy Spirit that flows from 
the fountain of light, and is like a well-
spring of living water that never fails.
	Unless one accepts this theory it is not
possible to account for the marvelous
works which have been brought to pass
through the power of the Priesthood,
this boy received from those who came
and ministered unto him from the regions
of glory, the world of heavenly light.
Think what a wonderful manifestation
was given this lad when but fourteen 
years of age, he went into the woods to 
pray, to inquire of the Lord, which of all
the different churches was the right one.
	The boy was so wrought upon in the 
midst of a great religious revival that pre-
vailed in the vicinity, that he knew not 
what to do. He searched the Scriptures
for light and found the passage in the
Epistle of James which reads, “If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth 
not and it shall be given him,” and this
young Joseph, with implicit faith, sought
the Lord in humility and prayer, he was
alone, it was his first prayer vocally, and
he felt the powerful influence of nature.
The poet says “the groves were God’s first
temples,” and no doubt like Jacob of old
he wrestled mightily in solemn prayer, 
and a voice from on high spoke to him, 
and directed him what course he must 
take. The world would not believe him.
Many times afterwards heavenly messen-
gers were sent to minister unto him, and
he suffered almost continuous persecution
because of unbelief.
	Subsequently he received knowledge of
the hidden record and translated it by the
gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the
work was beginning to grow, the restor-
ation of the Everlasting Gospel in the Lat-
ter-day dispensation.
	When one reflects upon what the
Prophet Joseph did in the few years he
was permitted to teach and preach, look-
ing at the matter as a serious problem,
taking the bare facts of the case into con-
sideration, an unlettered boy, one cannot
but feel it to be a marvel and a wonder.
Founding and organizing a church and
enunciating doctrines, that cannot be con-
troverted by the most celebrated divines
––a church that has held people together
as a body of religious worshippers for three

[Column 2]
quarters of a century, people too of many
nations, looking at it naturally it seems
incredible, and yet it has been demon-
strated in the eyes of the whole world. 
	Nothing could produce the effect of 
uniting together people of such a great
variety of nations, languages, customs,
habits and sentiments to live in peace and 
harmony and establish themselves in
communities, fulfilling temporal duties
and obligations except the Spirit of the
Lord; all testify alike of the divinity of
the Gospel as revealed though the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, and carried forward by
his successors in office down to the pres-
ent time.
	The truths proclaimed by the Prophet
Joseph have permeated the world, not
only has the Everlasting Gospel as taught
by the Savior and His Apostles been
preached in many lands and in thousands
of cities bringing converts by tens of thou-
sands, but the influence accompanying
these divine principles has spread like
the mustard seed, blown hither and thith-
er, and has developed a vast change of 
sentiment among the children of men,
light has come into the world, the glori-
ous, radiating light that will eventually
revolutionize the world of mankind, and
men yet unborn will come to acknowledge
the boy Prophet a great benefactor, as
well as Seer and Revelator.
	The saying of the celebrated Josiah
Quincy of Massachusetts, who visited the
Prophet Joseph Smith at Nauvoo, Ill.,
in company with Hon. Charles Francis
Adams, Sr., on the 15th of May, 1844,
forty-three days before the martyrdom,
has at present every likelihood of coming
to pass. In describing his impressions of
this man whom he saw, among other re-
marks in his published report, he made
use of the following language: “It is not
at all improbable that some text book for
the generations yet unborn might contain
this question: What historical American
of the nineteenth century has exerted the
most powerful influence upon the desti-
nies of his countrymen. And it is by no
means impossible that the answer might 
be Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet.”
	The erection of the handsome and
durable marble monument on the spot
where this baby boy was born marks an
event that will mean much to the chil-
dren of Zion, more potent in creating
sentiment than volumes of written his-
tory; it is an object lesson that will be
of lasting duration, and will attract the
attention of strangers, as well as our own
people. 
	This hundredth anniversary has had a
telling effect in many ways; it has revived
old memories of those who knew the
Prophet personally, and brought out many
incidents of his life and recollections of
the man himself, his majestic appearance,
his commanding figure, his dignified bear-
ing, his gracious manner, his innate re-
finement, his spiritual eloquence, his great
gift of healing the sick and afflicted, and
in short everything pertaining to his re-
ligious, social and domestic life, that
could be told by those most familiar with
him under all the peculiar circumstances
that he had to meet and combat with,
in introducing and carrying forward the
work to which he had been called by
divine authority.
	Joseph Smith was as tender-hearted as
a little child, this is the testimony of all
and yet he had the courage of a lion, it is

[Column 3]
a true saying that “the gentlest are the
bravest.”
	Joseph Smith the Prophet was assured-
ly a philanthropist in the broadest accep-
tation of the term. In all his labors he
proved the philanthropic nature of his 
character. The Church he founded, hav-
ing been called of God, gave to man and
woman equal privileges of voting on all
subjects, and at that time, in 1830, such
a thing was unheard of, as far as our
knowledge of churches extends; and he
was the first man to organize the women
of the Church into a philanthropic so-
ciety, taking the initiative himself, retir-
ing from the meeting while they elected 
their own officers; advising them to ob-
serve parliamentary usage in their meet-
ings. This was March 17, 1842, long be-
fore woman’s organizations had become
a part and parcel of the world’s activities.
This benevolent society named by the few
women who met together in that first 
meeting “The Relief Society” has grown
and flourished ever since, and of the small
number assembled on that occasion, 
there is now just one representative. wo-
man to testify of the commencement of
that event which marks an epoch in the
progress of women in this “dispensation
of the fulness of times.” This woman,
Bathsheba W. Smith, is the General
President of the Society, that at the pres-
ent time reaches around the world, and
is not only national but international in
its scope, having branches in many for-
eign lands and on the islands of the sea,
and it is a favorite saying of its President
and others, that the sun never sets upon
the Relief Society, which is verily true.
	The women of the world who deride
the name and who defame the character
of Joseph Smith, should take a little time
to look up on his advanced ideas of wo-
manhood. His gentle, chivalrous and
reverential manner towards all women
was a distinguishing trait in the character
of this most remarkable and wonderful
man. One could not meet him even
casually without feeling the potent influ-
ence of the atmosphere that enveloped
him, as entirely different from other men
of the same period. Though he was in-
deed the greatest man of his time (that 
the writer has ever seen) yet one of his 
chief attributes was humility, and also
forbearance with the weaknesses and
frailties of those with whom he was
brought in contact.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith revealed to
this generation many mighty truths
hitherto unknown in the world of man-
kind, and the work founded by him has
brought salvation to many thousands,
and they have been shown how to live,
and what to do, that future happiness in
the family relation might be secured.
There is no other church that teaches
these fundamental truths. One of the 
greatest testimonies of the divinity of
the Latter-day work established by the 
Prophet Joseph through revelation and
authority from on high is the knowledge
obtained concerning sacred temples,
wherein holy ordinances are performed
for the living and the dead. To those who
have entered into this sublime work with
pure hearts, it has given them higher
views of this life, and has opened up
vistas of light and understanding that no
gold or riches could purchase from them.
Can one imagine greater progress than
this, the unfolding of hidden mysteries,


the receiving of keys to open doors closed
for centuries, whereby those who sit in
darkness may be admitted into light and
be eventually redeemed and partake of the
blessings promised through the ordinances
of the Gospel?
	The recent visit of President Joseph F.
Smith to the State of Vermont is an 
event of great significance more so than
has yet appeared. Greater things will
grow out of this journey than even the
dedication of this beautiful monument,
which is in itself a splendid tribute to the
martyred Prophet, and although much
has been accomplished among many peo-
ples of many lands, since the Prophet
Joseph Smith was born, yet greater works
are yet to come, and those who live to-
day will see more temples reared, to the
name of the Lord, more waste places
made habitable, and though calamities
may come, and wars not cease, and the
very elements of the earth be in commo-
tion as has been prophesied not only by
ancient prophets but by the Prophet
Joseph Smith in this our day, yet Zion
will prosper and grow famous, and those
who are faithful and true will have part
in the blessings that will be poured out
in rich abundance upon this glorious
land, America.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks
the gift of the Primary Song Book pre-
pared by the General Board of the Prim-
ary Association, for the children of Zion.
Many of the songs are new, which will
particularly recommend it to favor with
the little people who are always delighted
with something new. The Primary Gen-
eral Board are to be congratulated on the
success they are making in all depart-
ments of their work. The Children’s
Friend is ably conducted, and contains in
every issue the best material possible to
assist those who have charge in the wards
in making their work interesting and in-
structive, and not tedious to the little
ones. It is wonderful how the work has
grown and what has been accomplished
for the little people, and singing is one of
the chief attractions, of the meetings.
Welcome every new original song, the
songs of a people are repeated when ser-
mons are forgotten.

	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, Mass.,
mentions the death of one quite well
known to the writer and to some of our
Utah people. Mrs. Jane Spafford whose
husband kept the Riggs House in Wash-
ington, D. C., for many years. It was
quite a popular hotel and Mr. and Mrs.
Spafford were always most genial, and
both were the very soul of kindness and
hospitality. They were both equal suf-
fragists and their hotel was Woman Suf-
frage headquarters, for conventions, etc.,
for many years. Mrs. Spafford was treas-
urer for the National W. S. A. many
years until she left Washington to reside
in Maine, her native state. She died at
her own home in Hampden, Maine, about
the twentieth of December. The journal
will publish the “In Memoriam,” from
which we shall be glad to glean some
items for our paper. Mrs. Spafford was a
close friend of Miss Susan B. Anthony
and Mrs. Stanton who passed away some
years ago. She was a magnificent woman
in figure and appearance, one never to be


forgotten, her snow white hair and digni-
fied carriage, her sweet face and gracious
manner distinguished her in her own
home and wherever she appeared in pub-
lic.


PASSING THOUGHTS. 
	"The beauty of the house is order; the blessing
of the house is contentment; the glory of the
house is hospitality; the crown of the house is
godliness."
	Not one of the above virtues is denied
the home of any one, rich and poor alike
may be the proud possessors. It neither
takes fine furnishings nor rich draperies
to possess order. The humble, plain and
simple articles, if kept in place and neat-
ness, will render the home beautiful;
while the costly and rare furnishings, if
kept in confusion, will produce a jarring
and unpleasant effect.
	No matter how much or what some
people possess, there is always a desire for
something else—a covetousness and envy
that renders life unpleasant, not only for
the one so built; but for those who have
to live near such a person. How very
few there are in this world with that hap-
py content of The Miller of the Dee, and
yet how blessed are those who are con-
tent with doing right and making the
most and the best of their surroundings
and circumstances. Contentment renders
the home life smooth, tranquil, and brings
the blessing of peace.
	How delightful to enter a home and
feel in the very atmosphere a welcome.
No elaborate preparations for the formal
receiving of guests is necessary to make
one rejoice in the glory of the house, but
just the simple friendliness of a smile and
extended hand, which silently says, "We
are glad of your coming, enter, what we
have is yours,"
	Such a home, with these possessions,
surely has a claim to the crown of god-
liness. For the spirit of love, which is
the greatest of all things, pervades the
home where hospitality, contentment and
order dwell.
	Nearly three quarters of a century has
passed since the book of revelations
known as the Doctrine and Covenants,
was given to the world. And the world
laughed at and scorned the work from
that day to this. Only the few honest in
heart received it in the spirit in which it
was given; but as time goes on and
thought advances, the scientists and
philosophers of this age keep advancing
and bringing forth works and regulations
for mankind, all in keeping with this
wondrous book—the Word of Wisdom is
only one example. All over the world
now, those who have at heart the idea
of preserving one's body and mind in
clear and pure condition for long useful-
ness, teach them the Word of Wisdom,
call it what they may—"The New
Thought." "The Ralston," "The Health
Food," or any other name. They eat
simply very little, if any, meat, abstinence
from liquor, tobacco and hot drinks and
utmost watch and care of the body. Yet
the Latter-day Saints, with all their
teaching and knowledge, have been slow
to follow the word of the Lord in this
respect. It was given as a command,
like other commands have been given us
and reason proves the wisdom and bless-
ing of it. A. W. C.


IN MEMORIAM.
		DORCAS GEORGIANA KING.
	Dorcas Georgiana King, wife of Bishop Thomas
O. King, who died Aug. 20th, 1905, at Alma.
Idaho, was born July 10, 1846, at Norfolk, Eng-
land, was bapt zed when eight years of age, and
emigrated to U[-]ah in 1864. She was the mother
of eight children, five of whom survive her, A
loving husband, three sons and two daughters be-
side numerous relatives and friends, mourn her
uutimely death.
	Sister King was a true Latter-day Saint, a faith-
ful wife and loving mother; devoted to her duties
and to Relief Society work, of which she was
treasurer at the time of her death. Her influence
was always felt for good in this benevolent work
Her funeral was an ovation of love mingled with
sorrow and tears. Wreaths of beautiful flowers
lovingly covered the beautiful white casket in
which she was laid to rest.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to remove our dear sister to a
higher sphere, therefore be it,
	Resolved that we mourn her loss as a dear sister,
a faithful worker in the cause of truth, and as a
faithful treasurer of the Relief Society and that
we desire to emulate her worthy example
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
his Holy Spirit rest upon them, that they may real-
ize that she is enjoying the rest of the faithful; that
she will come forth to a glorious resurrection
crowned with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				JANE DURFEE, President,
				MARGARET E. WARD, Secretary.


OBITUARY.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Jane M. Car-
ington Young, who departed this life, November
10, 1905.
	The news of the sudden death of “Aunt Jane
Young,” as she was affectionately called, came as
a painful shock to her family and many friends,
for although she had not been in good health for
some time, she was ever cheerful and hopeful, and
a regular attendant at all Relief Society meetings,
as also all ward meetings and the Sunday School,
and had successfully performed each duty and
labor devolving upon her, never resting from her
toil till the Master called her home.
	Sister Young was an example of unselfish devo-
tion to her husband, children, friends, and all
with whom she was associated. As a member of
the 17th Ward Relief Society, she labored unceas-
ingly, acting as treasurer of the association, she
was also the chairman of the work committee. In
this capacity she was unexcelled, no task being too
hard for her to undertake, all were willingly,
cheerfully performed.
	She visited the sick and afflicted, ministering to
their temporal needs as far as her circumstances
would permit, not only sharing her means but car-
rying them beautiful flowers, of which she was
very fond and labored diligently to care for, but
giving them her time, cheerful presence, spiritual
help and encouragement.
	Sister Young passed from mortality without
pain or suffering and although the call came sud-
denly, she was ready, and to all who know her
life’s labors comes the conviction that of her it can
be said, “All is well.”—Com.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Ursula Rumel.
When it became known that Sister Rumel had
been called to the great beyond keen sorrow filled
the hearts of her family, friends and associates, for
although she had suffered severely for some time,
yet because of her children, who are left without
father or mother, from our human standpoint it
seemed that she could hardly be spared, but even
in our most severe afflictions we feel to look
to our Heavenly Father whom we know,
‘doeth all things well,” trusting in His infinite
mercy and loving care for all His children; and
thus becoming reconciled to every dispensation of
His providence.
	Sister Rumel was a woman whom to know was
to love; An affectionate, devoted wife; a true
mother in the fullest sense of the word, her unself-
ish devotion to her family knew no bounds. Being


left a widow many years ago, she has struggled
bravely, cheerfully and patiently to fulfill her duty
to her children, her associates and her God. All
who knew her can testify that she succeeded in
her noble and high aims. Before her health failed
she was an active, intelllgent worker in the Relief
Society, visiting the sick and afflicted in the capac-
ity of a teacher, and performing every duty of
that calling to the satisfaction of her associates.
	Her life has been a beautiful and exemplary one
and we have joy and comfort in the knowledge
that she is entitled to all the blessings promised to
the faithful. ---Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Agreeable to the request of Joseph E.
Robinson, President of the California
Mission, and Justus Swenson, President of
the San Francisco Branch, a special meet-
ing for the reorganizatiofi of the Ladies'
Relief Society of this city was called
November 8th, 1905, Sister Mary G.
Hughes, the President, having tendered
her resignation previously and same hav-
ing been accepted.
	President Robinson presided and called
the meeting to order. He addressed the
sisters upon the subject of the Relief
Society and its importance as an aid in
the Church.
	Sister Elizabeth Rawlinson was unani-
mously chosen President of the Society,
with Sisters Anna Stormfieldt and Eliza-
beth Hooper as Counselors. Sister W.
P. Wolfinger was unanimously sustained
as Secretary.
	President Rawlinson addressed the sis-
ters asking their assistance and faith that
they might have a Relief Society in very
deed. Sisters Stormfieldt, Hooper and
Wolfinger followed.
	Testimonies were borne by many
present and a good spirit prevailed
throughout.
	W. P. Wolfinger, Secretary.


REORGANIZATION 22ND WARD, CITY.
	A special meeting of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society was called June 14, 1904.
Bishop Alfred Solomon presided. On
the stand were Bishop Alfred Solomon,
Counselors John L. Nebeker and Arthur
Winter, also Counselor Georgina Fox
Young of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society and Coun. Elizabeth H. Davis of
the 22nd Ward Relief Society.
	Bishop Solomon stated the purpose of
the meeting. He spoke of the good work
President Rachel Whipple had done.
She had been faithful and true to the pos-
ition she had held. He also spoke of the
faithfulness of her Counselors.
	President Rachel Whipple and Coun-
selor Maria L. Nebeker were honorably
released with the best wishes and love of
all. Bishop Solomon said the duties of
the Relief Society are great and urged
the sisters to visit the homes of those who
are bowed down with sorrow. He said
he hoped that the sisters would be willing
to accept and sustain those who would be
placed before them for their accept-
ance.
	Sister Elizabeth H. Davis was then
chosen to be President of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society with Mary L. Solomon as
her first and Harriet Maria James as her
second Counselors. All were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Counselor John L. Nebeker spoke of
his regret at not seeing more of the sis-
ters present. Said he regarded the posi-


tion of a Relief Society teacher as a great
responsibility.
	Counselor Arthur Winter spoke for a
short time on the good that the Relief
Society had done in the Church. He
said he considered it second to none of
the auxiliary organizations. Sister Geor-
gina Fox Young of the Stake Relief
Society spoke of the wisdom in reorganiz-
ing. We can gain much by doing charity
work. Sisters Elizabeth Davis, Mary L.
Solomon and Harriet M. James each ex-
pressed a willingness to fill the positions
assigned them. Sister Lula Winn was
then chosen to act as Secretary, and ex-
pressed her willingness to act in the posi-
tion.
	The above sisters were then set apart
to their various positions under the hands
of Bishop Solomon, Counselor Arthur
Winter and Elder John Kingdon. After
singing and benediction, meeting ad-
journed.
		HARRIET JAMES, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held Nov. 23rd, in
the Mesa R. S, Hall, commencing at 2
o’clock, with First Counselor Melissa
Hunsaker presiding. Attendance of 36
officers and members and two brethren of
the Stake presidency.
	After opening remarks, Prest. Florence
A. Dana reported the Mesa ward to be in
good condition. They have nearly fin-
ished the mothers’ work program. Prest.
Sophronia Stewart said the attendance at
the Alma ward was not as good as she
would like. They have reading from the
Doctrine and Covenants and mothers’
work lectures. Counselor Hunsaker said
all the wards had been visited and all
were striving to do right, Stake Secre-
tary Anna E. Fuller reported the Pine
ward in good condition both spiritually
and temporally. They have the mothers’
work lectures. Coun. Parmelia Horne
had visited the Mesa and Lehi wards
since returning home, but Lehi held no
meeting.
	Coun. Wm. J. LeBaron said that faith
without works is dead. Helping others
awakens in the human heart a love of the
Lord. The good results of the labors of
the Relief Society are truly felt when we
are in need, and the good we do comes
back to us in blessings; many opportuni-
ties are lost by those who are not organ-
ized in their wards for Relief Society
work. Other denominations are follow-
ing in our footsteps. Let our example be
worthy for them to follow.
	Coun. Isaac Dana said we will be judged
by our works and the records we make
here. The riches of eternity are gained
by the faithful.
	Stake Missionary Sarah M. Pomeroy
said that those who do not take hold in
this work are the losers. She rejoiced in
the gospel and was glad to help the
needy. Eliza Leavitt and Sarah Vance
bore testimony. Alice Richens said she
never forgot meeting days, and felt it to
be our duty to carry on this work. Bar-
bara Lang was glad to meet with the sis-
ters again. Had greatly enjoyed her visit
with relatives in the East, and had ob-
tained some genealogy and hoped to be
able to do some work for relatives who
are dead.
	Counselor Hunsaker made a few closing

[Column 2]
remarks and thanked the brethren for
meeting with us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned.
		ANNA E. FULLER, Secy.

	Sunday, Nov. 2.—At the General Con-
ference of the Maricopa Stake R. S.,
President Mabel A. Hakes was hon-
orably released on account of her remov-
al to New Mexico, and Melissa Hunsaker
was sustained as Stake Prest. of the Mar-
icopa Relief Society, with Parmelia
Horne and Sophronia Stewart as her
counselors. At the close of the meeting
the sisters were set apart by Apostles F.
M. Lyman and Rudger Clawson.
						A. E. F.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of the Box Elder stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, Tuesday, De-
cember 12, 1905, President Susannah P.
Booth presiding. Present beside Relief
society stake board, President Oleen N.
Stohl and Brother Jos. Burt.
	Conference opened with singing, prayer
and singing. Minutes of previous fore-
noon conference read and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth made opening
remarks, said we were willing to do any-
thing we could to make the meetings in-
teresting, so we could have better attend-
ance, bore her testimony, and spoke in
regard to “Mother’s work.”
	Prest. Mary Fredahl represented the
Elwood association in good running order,
had built a granary and had between 140
and 150 bushels of wheat.
	Prest. Sarah Fredahl reported Bear
River City society in good running order,
were united and held good meetings.
	Counselor Mary Perry represented Per-
ry association, said they had times of re-
joicing when they met together; spoke of
the “Mother’s work,” felt it was a grand
work, and had done much good, bore a
strong testimony to the goodness of God.
Sister Miller represented Thatcher associ-
ation, had an energetic band of sisters and
were doing as well as they possibly could.
Prest. Mary E. Ward reported Willard
society. The officers and teachers work
in love and harmony together, attendance
not as good as might be, held meetings
regularly. Prest. Elizabeth Loveland re-
ported Deweyville association; reported
a good time spent in visiting all through
their ward with the people, gathered
$31.60 from Sunday eggs, and bought
wheat; were all united in the Relief so-
ciety work. 
	President Oleen N. Stohl was pleased
to listen to the good reports given by the
sisters, felt to say God bless our mothers,
said a few words on the care of the poor,
spoke of the times in which we live and
the requirements made of us; spoke also
on punctuality and habits, our religion is
to us just what we make it; gave many
more good and timely instructions, asked
the blessing of God upon all.
	Morning session adjourned with singing
and prayer.
	2 p. m.—Afternoon session opened with
the usual exercises. Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
Roll called, 13 associations represented.
	Prest. Annie C. Johnson reported Brig-
ham City 1st ward in usual condition,
held meetings and mother’s work regular-
ly. Prest. Emma Lee reported Brigham
City 3rd ward, felt the Relief society


[Column 1]
testimony meetings were about the best
meetings we hold, spoke on forming the
habit of attending meeting, felt we could
not be too thankful for the blessings we
receive. Prest. Annie C. Jensen reported
Mantua society in usual good condition,
were united, and the spirit of God was
with them, had 348 bushels of wheat.
Prest. Charlotte W. Boden reported
Brigham City 2nd ward, was thankful to
be one with the sisters in the blessings
and privileges she enjoyed, reported all
in good condition. President Sarah J.
Wilde of Brigham City 4th ward reported
having a good band of sisters who were
active and willing to do whatever called
upon to do. Sister Mary Wright was
pleased to be able to get out, had en-
joyed listening to the reports, thought the
Relief society was doing a good work,
felt well in the gospel and knew it was
true, said we were to have charity and
love for each other.
	A solo was rendered by Sister May
Hoops.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen spoke of
the early days and the association of
Prest. Harriet A. Snow, and the loving
kind words they received from the sisters
in those days, spoke on celebrating the
Prophet’s birthday, spoke a few words
on raffling, gave some directions to secre-
taries and the importance of keeping
dates, spoke a few words on the stake
board visiting around with the associa-
tions and how it was enjoyed, and of the
blessings received through prayer and ad-
ministration, gave many other good in-
structions.
	Sister Emma Vance said the Lord in-
spires the sisters to speak to us, and
cause us to feel refreshed in our minds,
and helps us to more fully appreciate our minds,
surroundings, spoke of the rearing and
responsibility of children, and urged the
sisters to do their duties in this regard.
	Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow felt
to call attention to a piece in the Im-
provement Era in regard to the Prophet
Joseph Smith; related a circumstance in
relation to his mother and her great faith,
spoke of his mother’s death, and how the
evil had influence over him, and how
through the influence of his sister he got
rid of the evil which had possession of
him; referred to fault finding, and urged
all to help and strengthen each other.
	President S. P. Booth felt to thank the
brethren and sisters for the good counsel
given, felt the Spirit of God had been with
us, and made other good closing remarks.
	After singing Doxology, prayer was of-
fered, and conference adjourned for six
months.
			ANNIE K. LITTLEWOOD,
					Cor. Sec. pro tem.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at American Fork,
October 20th, 1905, President Rebecca
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises President Standring made open-
ing remarks. Thought we ought to be
improved by the many teachings we have

[Column 2]
received lately. The Board are work-
ing hard for the benefit of the Society.
The teachings of the President at Con-
ference were very important. After re-
ports from some of the presidents, Coun-
selor Ida Smoot Dusenberry addressed
the meeting; she loved to meet the sisters
of the Relief Society and look in their
faces, it always gave her inspiration, can
see traces of a hard-working life. We
unconsciously recieve inspiration and a 
restful spirit; loved to look on the face of
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to see
the purity of spirit expressed in her fea-
tures. Spoke of her travels, her visit to
Rome and Italy, and her experience in
Portland at the Fair interspersed with
many pleasing reminiscences. “It is
through doing for others that our charac-
ters are being built up, the more charity
and love we can have the faster we are
growing. We are a charitable organiza-
tion, but it does not stop with the physic-
al but the intellect must be built up.
Spoke of motherhood and the importance
of home training and the necessity of liv-
ing in harmony. Life is made up of
little things, and let us cherish love, char-
ity and all the graces of the gospel.”
	Singing, “How firm a Foundation.”
Two of the presidents reported.
	President Jas. H. Clarke: “Are we fully
alive to our opportunities, have we the
confidence we should have in the princi-
ples of the church; except we receive and
enjoy the spirit of our organization, we
cannot do much good. How good it
would be if the sisters could open their
hearts to the teachers and receive in-
struction suitable to their condition. If
we had perfect confidence in each other
the instruction would be of the right
kind.” Believed we were advancing; “if
we had the entire love and confidence of
each other what a wonderful effect it
would have, and how much advancement
we should make.”
	Singing and Benediction. Adjourned
until 2 o’clook.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises,
President Standring said it was necessary
for us to come together and learn our
duty and to bless each other. Hoped we
would have a profitable time this after-
noon.
	Reports were given of Manila, Alpine,
and Cedar Fort. Song. “There’s work
for all,” Sisters Evans and Grant. Next
was an address by Counselor Annie C.
Hindley, “The duties of parents to chil-
dren, and the duties of children to par-
ents.”
	Singing. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said the
Presidency and Bishops appreciate the
efforts of the Relief Society and the sis-
ters may be congratulated on their in-
tegrity and faithfulness; he had been led
to reflect on the condition of the people.
Found that in the primary departments
of the schools the boys and girls seem
about equal in number, but as you move

[Column 3]
up to the higher classes the boys grow
scarcer. “Every mother has a desire
that her children should grow up good
Latter-day Saints. We have more moth-
ers than fathers who take an interest in
the advancement of the children. Chil-
dren are the heritage of the Lord and are
a glorious blessing. There is a great call
for young men in the mission field; the
Spirit of the Lord is operating on the
minds of the people and they are inquir-
ing for missionaries and information. The
Church is growing and we are becoming
more of a light set on a hill. Outsiders
cannot refrain from saying: “The Mor-
mons are a wonderful people.” How
many are trying to plant faith in the
hearts of the children. The harvest is
great and the laborers are few. There is
a call for 600 missionaries; mothers, with-
hold not your sons nor your daughters:
people who hear the stories against this
people are led to wonder and investigate
and they desire to know the truth. Take
courage, sisters, and don’t hinder your
boy from taking a mission if he is young,
and you will rejoice that he went.”
	Sister Sina Chipman gave an address on
Charity.
	President Abel J. Evans spoke of the
grand invocation of President Joseph F.
Smith at conference, when he blessed his
brethren and sisters each and all and
even his enemies, and asked the Lord to
forgive them until the people were melted
to tears, and he determined that as long
as he lived, he would never harbor a feel-
ing of animosity against any of his
brethren.
	President Standring felt to bless the
sisters, with their husbands, their families,
their homes and all their possessions.
Prayed for a blessing on all with salvation
in the presence of God.
	Singing “Praise God from Whom all
blessings flow.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Webb.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


48 WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim  to give you
as much as possible for your money.        TRY US 
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minor,
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


CLEANING A SEWING MACHINE.
	To clean a sewing machine, says Lon-
don Tid Bits, place it near the fire to get
warm, that the congealed oil about it may
melt, and then oil it thoroughly with par-
affin. Work it quickly for a few minutes,
then wipe off all the paraffin and dirt,
treat it to a little more paraffin, wipe it
again, and after the application of a very
little of the ordinary lubricating oil it will
be ready for use, and its easy working will
be an ample reward for any trouble in-
curred.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1906						No. 8


CONTENTS.
Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball................ 
	.....................................Alice K. Smith	49
Christmas in Scandinavia............................
	..........................Emma Howell Jenson	51
Effort May Overcome Environment............
	...........................Eleanor P. Groesbeck	54
Mothers’ Work......................Ceila A. Smith	54
In Memoriam...............................................	55
Party at Pleasant View...........M. A. Cragun	56
Honoring Sister Lindsay..........N. H. Allred	56
Relief Society Report..................................	56
EDITORIAL:—A Few Stray Thoughts.......	52
	Unique Party........................................	52
	Heart of My Heart...............................	53
	Editorial Notes....................................	53
POETRY:—Today..........Grace Ingles Frost	49
	The Pilgrim Mother................Selected	49
	As the Days are Slipping By................
	....................................Louise Coulson	51
	The Lone Pine.............Maud Baggerly	51


TODAY.
		GRACE INGLES FROST.

Live in today, not tomorrow;
	When it shall come ’twill be your today
Ask not thyself, does it hold joy or sorrow;
	Trust in the Master and live in today.

Live in today, not tomorrow;
	None eve[-] reach it; tug as they may.
Save in the realms where fancy may lead
		them;
	For when attained ’tis always today.

Live in today, there is no tomorrow;
	Live in the land in the season that’s
		thine;
Live in today, great strength you will
		borrow,
	By only living one day at a time.


[Column 1]
[Portrait of Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball]

AMANDA TRIMBLE GHEEN KIMBALL.

		BY ALICE K. SMITH.
	Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball was
born into this life the same year that the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was organized. She first beheld
the light of day the 18th day of January,
1830. She was the fourth child and third
daughter in a family of eight. The order
of the children’s births was as follows:
Margarette P. Thomas, Ann Alice, Aman-
da T., Mary Ann, Stephen H., Levi A.,
and Sarah Ellen. They were all born in
Whiteland, Chester county, Pennsyl-
vania, excepting the last named, who was
born in Nauvoo, Hancock county, Illinois.
Her father’s name was William A.
Gheen, a son of Thomas and Alice Ann
Atkin Gheen, natives of Goshen, Chester
county, Pennsylvania, where he was born
September 2, 1798. He was a prosper-
ous farmer. Both his parents were
Quakers, He led a good, moral and in-
dustrious life, though he never believed
or joined any sect or society until he
joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. Her mother’s maiden
name was Esther Ann Pierce, a daughter
of Thomas and Margerette Trimble
Pierce, both born in Thornbury, Delaware
county, Pennsylvania. They, like her
father’s parents, were Quakers.
	In the spring of 1840 some of the first
Elders belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints came to
Chester county, Pennsylvania, and Aman-
da’s parents and their children who were
old enough to comprehend, were soon
convinced of the truth of the Gospel. In
August of the same year her father, moth-
er and oldest sister were baptized, and
the following December Amanda and her
sister, Ann A., were also baptized. At
this time Amanda was twelve and Ann A.
was fourteen years of age.
	In the year 1841 her father, in company
with Edward Hunter (who was a near
neighbor), went to Nauvoo to visit the
Prophet and Saints. He received his
patriarchal blessing and was ordained an
Elder under the hands of Hyrum Smith.
He returned home in good health and
spirits, On the 21st of January, 1842,
her father sold his farm and prepared to
gather with the Saints at Nauvoo, and on
the 11th day of May, 1842, they bade
farewell to the place of their nativity and
started westward, for the Gospel sake.

[Column 2]
In the language of Ann A., “They were
prospered and blessed and had a pleasant
journey, for they were a happy family.”
	They arrived in the city of Nauvoo the
28th day of June, having been seven
weeks on the way. Her father bought
an acre of land just two blocks west of
the Temple, and built a two-story brick
house. He also purchased of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith eighty acres of prairie
land on the Carthage road, for which he
paid eight hundred dollars. He labored
diligently to build and improve, and to
cultivate the earth. He made his family
comfortable and assisted in building the
Temple by labor and liberal donations.
He was always very kind to the poor.
The Prophet Joseph Smith and his broth-
er Hyrum were frequent and welcom
visitors at the Gheen home. On the 29th
of July, 1843, Amanda and her sister,
Ann A., received their patriarchal bless-
ings under the hands of Patriarch Hyrum
Smith. Other prominent visitors came
to their home, among them Brothers
Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball.
And Heber became very much attached
to Amanda’s sister, Ann A., who was at
that time very ill with ague. He con-
verted her and her parents to the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and he asked
her to be his wife under the bonds of the
new and everlasting covenant, which she
consented to, and on the 10th day of Sep-
tember, 1844, they were married by Brig-
ham Young, then President of the Twelve.
We find the following in her journal in
reference to her marriage:
	“This I do for the sake of salvation and
exaltation in the celestial kingdom of
God, with a man I think the best in the
world, and one who has proved himself a
man of God.”
	Amanda’s father was very much at-
tached to the Prophet and his brethren,
and often he was bowed down in grief
and wept when he witnessed the life of
jeopardy and persecution that they en-
dured from day to day. The day before
the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hy-
rum were murdered he visited them in
the jail and was received with many bless-
ings.
	He had a great desire to see the Tem-
ple completed, but he was disappointed.
The following year he was taken sudden-
ly ill, and died July 15, 1845, age forty-
seven years and ten months.
	From the journal of Ann A. we read
the following: “This is a heavy blow to
our family, for he was a kind and faithful
father and husband and a good man.
Brother Brigham preached his funeral
sermon, and he said he had known Broth-
er William A. Gheen well, and if he was
to live his life over he could not better it
one particle.”
	At the time of his death the four young-
est children had the whooping cough, and
the baby was apparently dying, but
through the blessings of God she lived to
be a great blessing and became a mother
in Israel. Amanda in time was convinced
also that Heber C. Kimball was “the best
man in the world,” and was married to him


[Column 1]
in the Nauvoo Temple, December, 1845.
These two sisters, whose lives were so
closely interwoven, were just the opposite
in looks and temperament. Ann A., was
very tall, of dark complexion, black
silken hair, and very dark eyes, was in-
tensely spiritual and rather delicate.
Amanda was of medium height, fair com-
plexion, blue eyes and light hair, was
rather temporal, or seemed more wrapped
up in the affairs of this life than her sis-
ter, and never knew until she was ad-
vanced in years what sickness meant.
Ann A. was gentle, kind, and had great
sympathy for the delicate and weak. She
was rather Quakerish in her dress, and
seemed to avoid society, or shrank from
the association of [-]trangers, and she ap-
peared happier at home than abroad un-
less she could administer help and com-
fort to her friends and to the sick and
those who were in need.
	Amanda was quick to speak, of high
temperament, given to plain speech; with
her a “spade was a spade.” She loved
and craved company, the association of
the young and the old, and was never
known to refuse an invitation to a social
gathering or any place of enjoyment.
These two sisters were baptized the same
day; they received their patriarchal bless-
ings the same day. They were both
sealed for time and all eternity to the
same husband. They lived together,
reared their children together, and loved
each other’s children. Together they
participated in the trials, persecutions,
mobbings and drivings of the Saints from
their beautiful city, Nauvoo, and from
their sacred Temple, from their homes
and possessions. And they remained
with the “Camp of Israel” upon the Mis-
souri river, in 1846-7, while their husband
came west as one of the pioneers with
President Brigham Young. In 1848, the
brethren having returned to Winter
Quarters to lead the main body of the
Church westward, these two sisters came
with the rest of their husband’s family,
though in different companies. Their
journey across the plains, which to many
seemed laborious, was to Amanda one
long pleasure trip. She took her share
of the work and the hardship uncom-
plainingly, and it has always been a
pleasure to listen to her stories of the
good times they had on that journey, and
likewise when they first came to these
valleys, though in the midst of privation
and want. She always took a great deal
of pleasure and satisfaction in dyeing
wool or yarn, in spinning, carding or
“cooking for the mill hands,” or anything
that came her way. She was well and
strong and was never known to shirk any
duty. Her first great sorrow was the
death of her husband. The Deseret
Evening News of Mond[-]y, June 22, 1868,
in an extended editorial thus announced
his death: “A prince and a great man has
this day passed from among us. Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball, who was born
June 14, 1801, fell asleep at twenty min-
utes to eleven o’clock this morning, June
22nd, after a pilgrimage on the earth of
sixty-seven years and eight days.”
	His last words uttered distinctly the
evening before his death were: “Truth,
eternal Truth,” and it was the testimony
of this “Truth, eternal Truth” that
burned in the souls of his wives, the
mothers of his children, that braced them
up in this the hour of their bereavement.
	
[Column 2]
	At this time Amanda was but thirty-
eight years of age. She was the mother
of four sons, and she was ever a true
mother to her children, and true to the
end to this great and noble man of God.
She had been his wife for time and she
knew she would be his throughout the
endless eternities. She loved him and he
loved her. The following is an extract
from a letter from Heber C. Kimball to
his wife Amanda: “I have no fault to
find with you. I can say God bless my
wife Amanda with all things that she shall
wish for that will make her course safe to
the haven of rest.”
	At the time of his death, his wife, Ann
A., was very low with bronchitis and it
was feared her mortal end was near.
But her love for her children and the
great desire of her heart was to see them
grow to manhood aud womanhood, and
this buoyed her up. And with the faith
and prayers of her friends and loved ones
and the blessing of God, she lived, but
she never recovered her health, and
after eleven years of patient suffering, on
the 12th day of October, 1879, she passed
to the great beyond. She was fifty-
one years and ten months old. She was
the mother of five children, three sons
and two daughters. Her sister Amanda
had not been blessed with daughters,
consequently her heart and sympathy
went out to these two motherless girls,
and they turned to her, and Aunt
Amanda became their second mother.
Henceforth she was as devoted to them
and their children as to her own.
	The next great sorrow that came to
her was the death of her third son,
Jeremiah. He had been called to go
on a mission to Germany to preach the
Gospel. From the moment he re-
ceived his call until his death, he had
a foreboding of death to himself or one
of his loved ones. He had a wife and
three children (one had died previous to
his call.)
	In a letter to his mother, who was
then visiting her oldest son in Paris,
Bear Lake, he wrote:
	“Mother, if ever there was any one
who needed the help of the Lord it
is me, at the present time. I feel that
I am going to my death. But I feel
that I am in the hands of the Lord.
And what man has done, man can do
again. I hope by our faith and prayers
I will be protected, and find all well
when I return. May God bless you
and all of us, and all of His people
from day to day, Good-bye. From
your downcast but ever loving son and
well-wisher to all men, Jeremiah.”
	The foreboding anxiety and gloom that
he seemed unable to throw off reduced
him in flesh twenty pounds in the three
weeks before his departure. On the
night of May 25, 1887, while on his
way to Germany to fulfill his mission,
he was accidentally killed by falling from
the train between Fort Scott and Camas,
Kansas, This was a heavy blow to his
wife and children, and mother and the
entire family, for we all loved Jerry.
His body was brought back to Salt Lake
City and buried there June 1. The
funeral services were held in the Seven-
teenth ward, of which he was a member.
Bishop O. F. Whitney preached the fun-
eral sermon.
	Aunt Amanda was an active worker in

[Column 3]
the Relief Society and was always devoted
to her religion, always remembered her do-
nations and tithing, though at times it
was but the “widow’s mite.” She took a
great deal of comfort working in the
Temple. She did considerable work for
the dead, but her chief delight seemed to
be in entertaining her friends. She
seemed supremely happy when she could
get up a nice dinner and invite her
friends to eat with her. It was her cus-
tom to have her own children and her
sister Ann A’s. children together at her
home at least once a year. It can be
truly said that at her home “the latch
string hung on the outside.” At Confer-
ence time she always had a house full,
and there seemed always room for one
more. And when circumstances were
such that she could not be at home to
wait upon her friends, she would leave
the key with instructions to help them-
selves, and be at home, for they were
welcome. Many of her country friends,
who had been in the habit of partaking
of her hospitality when they come to
Conference, will miss her: but her chil-
dren and her sister’s children are now the
chief mourners.
	There is a vacant place in their home,
an aching void in their hearts that only
time can heal. For at the old Kimball
homestead in the Eighteenth Ward, at
six minutes before nine o’clock on the
evening of November 4, 1904, death re-
lieved the suffering of Aunt Amanda, and
her freed spirit passed into eternal rest.
She had been ailing for about a week
with an acute attack of pneumonia, and
in spite of all that could be done for
her in the way of medical help and in
administrations of the healing ordinance,
she gradually grew weaker, though at
times rallying, but finally succumbing to
the disease that had fastened its fatal
grip upon her. Among those who
administered to her in her last hours
were President Joseph F. Smith, Elder
J. Golden Kimball and Bishop O. F.
Whitney. At times she revived, and
it seemed that she might recover, but
inability to sleep, or to take proper
nourishment, intensified the malady from
which she was suffering until death
came.
	She was in her seventy-fifth year. She
had led an active life, and was energetic
and industrious to the end. She wanted
to live. She found joy in living. No
matter how dark the clouds seemed, Aunt
Amanda could always see a silver lining,
could always see something to live for.
Considering the circumstances that sur-
rounded her, and the many odds that
were against her, she found more real
pleasure in life than any woman I have
ever known. She recognized her loved
ones and was conscious until the last
moment. She fought against death and
prayed incessantly for life. But she was
suffered to go by Him who doeth all
things well. She was the mother of four
children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
ten great grandchildren.
	The funeral services were held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel, Monday, Novem-
ber 7, at 2 o'clock, Bishop Walter J. Beatie
of the Seventeenth ward presiding. The
speakers were Biship Beatie, Bishop
George Romney, Bishop O. F. Whitney
and President Joseph F. Smith. All of
the remarks were eulogistic of the
deceased, and many feeling references


were made to the career of her departed
husband. The prayers were pronounced
by Elder Robert Patrick and Elder John
T. Caine, while the music was furnished
by the “Imperial Quartette,” who rend-
ered “Night of Rest,” “When the Swal-
low’s Homeward Fly,” Thomas Ashworth
singing “O, my Father,” at the close.
	How we miss her! But what is our
loss will be her gain. And we feel sure
that when the book is opened out of
which we are to be judged, the name of
Amanda T. Gheen Kimball will be there
and on her life’s history not a blot nor a
blemish will be found.


THE PILGRIM MOTHERS.

A song for the Pilgrim Mothers,
Who came from over the sea
	To worship God
	On the virgin sod
Of a new world, great and free.

A song for those brave foremothers,
With dauntless hearts and true,
	Who sailed away
	From old Plymouth bay
To found a Plymouth new,

A song for those valiant mothers,
Self-exiled for the right;
	Who faced the wild,
	And serenely smiled
’Mid dangers, day and night.

A song for those steadfast mothers,
Waose patience was so strong,
	Through winter sleet
	And through summer heat
They passed with joyous song.

A song for those pure foremothers
Whose blood like leaven runs,
	Where’er the crest
	Of the nation’s best
Is borne by her daughters and sons.

A song for the silent mothers
Whose souls are now on high;
	We bow the head,
	To honor the dead,
Who knew how to live and to die.
					SELECTRD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS IN SCANDINAVIA.
	Christmas is the most important of all
feasts or “holy days” in the northern
countries. It was originally the feast of
the sun, a feast of rejoicing because the
shortest day of the season had passed,
and the sun had commenced its return to
the north. After the introduction of
Christianity into Scandinavia, its signifi-
cance was changed, and instead of being
the feast of the sun, it became a feast
in honor of the advent of the Son of Man,
and it was for many centuries the begin-
ning of the year.
	In olden times the people commenced
making preparations for Christmas sev-
eral weeks before the time, and among
the most important of these preparations
was the making of Christmas beer, which
was done with great care. Even among
the poorer classes, where the family beer
was ordinarily very weak, a much better
quality was made for Christmas, and suf-
ficient of it must be had to supply the
family liberally, and to treat every visitor
during the thirteen successive Christmas
days. During Christmas quarreling and
fighting was strictly forbidden; all must
be peace and good will, and all court
proceedings were suspended. Should
anyone do harm to his fellow man during
Christmas, great punishment would be
meted out to him later. Nor were the
people permitted to do any kind of hard
manual labor, only the most necessary
work, such as feeding the stock, etc., was
permissible.
	The so-called Christmas peace was also
extended to the brute creation. As long
as Christmas lasted man should keep
peace even with their natural enemies,
such as wolves, bears, rats and mice. To
avoid giving offence, these animals were
not even to be called by their right
names; but the wolf was during Christ-
mas called “grey leg” the bear “the old
one in furs,” mice the “little greys,” and
rats “long tails.”
	As the 24th of December drew nearer
the confusion and disorder, incident to
the preparations, became greater, and on
the 23rd of December it was at its height.
It was baking, cooking and a thorough gen-
real house cleaning that had to be done.
Everything had to be ready by sundown on
the 24th of December. Among the prepa-
rations for Christmas was also the rubbing
of the teeth of all domestic animals, and
that being done, horses, catte, sheep, etc.
were treated to a double portion of the
best of their usual allowance. An old
legend says that at midnight after Christ-
mas eve, at the exact hour that Christ
was supposed to have been born, all
animals received the power of speech,

[Column 2]
and could for a few moments converse
with each other like human beings,
	Everything else being ready, the peo-
ple turned their attention to their person-
al appearance; a bath and a complete
change of clothing on Christmas eve was
universal; and when attired in their best
the members of the household greeted
each other appropriately with “Merry
Christmas, health and strength and all
that is dear.” Then followed exchanges
of Christmas gifts, and then all sat down
to a bounteous Christmas supper in the
decorated room. The meal consisted
usually of dried fish and sweet porridge,
or ham with green cabbage and mush,
usually rice with well-to-do people. Af-
ter the table was once set Christmas eve,
it was never cleared until Christmas was
through, as every visitor in the house
during the time must, without exception,
partake of the hospitality of the same.
None were forgotten on Christmas eve;
all poor people were remembered; a large
dish was set out for the Christmas Saint
(Santa Claus), and the birds were provid-
ed for liberally.
	The Christmas cake was a most impor-
tant feature in every household; some-
times it was made in the shape of a man,
a ram, or a fat hog, otherwise perfectly
round. Sometimes a gold or silver coin
was placed in the center of the cake.
Christmas gifts commenced with ex-
changes of these cakes, but later they
were accompanied with gifts. The cus-
tom pertaining to Christmas cake was
introduced into England by the Vikings
from Scandinavia a thousand years ago,
and then “Yule cake” (yule or jul is the
Danish for Christmas) is well known to
this day.
	While eating the Christmas supper,
the head of the family would always
present a toast for Christ and the New
Year, and all would drink in honor there-
of from the oldest and most costly vessel
which the household possessed. Beer
and “mjod,’ (mead made of honey) were
the beverages used at Christmas, and this
was freely used by both men and women.
Whiskey and strong beverages were sel-
dom used on Christmas eve. After the
more solid meal, “Ebleskiver” was served
and the meal was prolonged as much as
possible, as there existed an old su-
perstitious legend to the effect that
the one who got through eating first
would die before the year was through.
At length, when the meal was over, the
head of the family offered a benediction,
and then gave the hand to the housewife,
saying, “Tak for Mad” (thanks for the
food), and after that shook hands with
all in the house; then follows a general
handshaking with “Tak for Mad,” coup-
led with many good wishes; the children
and the servants come in last; they com-
mence with the oldest person of the
household and end with the youngest.
	Many superstitious customs were asso-
ciated with Christmas eve proceedings:
Thus, in the glare of the Christmas can-
dles, which were to burn all night, young
people could see their future mate, and
everybody, to a greater or less extent,
see their future, at least what would hap-
pen to them the next year.
	Christmas day (December 25th) was
observed as a solemn holiday. Then ev-
erybody went to church, but spent the
rest of the day quietly at home, and it
was considered a very offensive breach of

[Column 3]
Christmas etiquette for any visits to be
made on that day. But on the 26th were
commenced the general Christmas fes-
tivities, aside from the solemn assemblies,
and they continued until the 5th of Janu-
ary. An important feature of the second
Christmas day was the horse feast, which
originated in the ancient Scandinavian
mythology, when the god Frey rode
around among his people on a holy ani-
mal; but when Christianity was intro-
duced in Scandinavia, they substituted
Stephen, the first Christian martyr, for
the god Frey, and the custom finally
dwindled down to general Christmas
races.
	Numerous and varied were the sports
and festivities of Christmas in the Scan-
dinavian countries in the olden times, but
these have considerably reduced of late
years. Yet Christmas, even today, is
looked forward to with much joy and an-
ticipation, and considerable good will is
manifested by the people, one toward
another, during the Christmas holidays,
and the exchange of presents and friendly
greetings is in order, as much now as it
ever was. The Christmas tree festivities
were almost unknown in Scandinavia un-
til seventy-five years ago, but were uni-
versal in France as early as the thirteenth
century.
		EMMA HOWELL JENSON.


AS THE DAYS ARE SLIPPING BY.
	LOUISE COULSON.

Are we doing all we can,
	Never asking reasons why?
Filling up life’s little span,
	As the days are slipping by?

Are we seeking good to do
	Where there's evils we descry?
Blessing every day anew
	As the days are slipping by?

God will surely life prolong,
	If we ask and if we try,
Filling every heart with song
	As the days go slipping by.


THE LONE PINE.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

“Mine eyes are weary” the hermit sighed,
“From gazing on mountains; and desert wide.”
“My only solace is yon towering pine,
Whose life is as useless and lonely as mine.”

“Yet—from storms it shelters the birds of the 
	air,
And hath stood for ages a sentinel there;
A guide to those on the desert astray,
A shield to all from the sun’s fierce ray.”

“Father, the pine hath taught to me—
All things are useful created by Thee.
I shall not repine when Thou dost give
The sorrows that teach me how to live.”


A hearing on the Federal Suffrage bill
introduced in the House by Hon. Burton
French of Idaho, and in the Senate by
Senator Warren, of Wyoming, was given
to the Federal Woman’s Equality Asso-
ciation on January 31. The annual meet-
ing was held in Washington, Feb
2nd. Rev. Olympia Brown is spending
the winter season in Washington, looking
after the interests of this important
measure.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		FFBRUARY, 1906


[Column 1]
	A FEW STRAY THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps it does not often occur to wo-
men, or to our people, what a great insti-
tution the Relief Society, founded away
back in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17,
1842, has become. But it has a history
which if told in brief would astonish
many of those who have been actively as-
sociated with its labors for years.
	The Relief Society has from the first
taken up various lines of work, and its
members have sought to stimulate the
energies of those in need of assistance to
self-helpfulness, trying to open up ave-
nues of employment for women and chil-
dren, as well as homes for the needy, and
places to meet in and to keep their small
or large possessions; for this purpose land
had to be purchased, therefore dealing in
real estate became necessary, not for
speculation but for permanency; and the
Society became land-owners, having right
of domain.
	The first real estate owned by this So-
ciety was given by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, the promoter and organizer of this
remarkable institution; the first woman’s
society of any magnitude we are aware
of, and we may say with all propriety,
the best and most thoroughly organized
throughout the world.
	The actual value of its temporal
strength would be difficult to estimate, as
it does not consist wholly in tangible
things, for it has withal so strong a hold
upon its supporters, that it is as a part of
their own lives. This is what gives to the
Society its most important values. This
can scarcely be comprehended by those
outside of the main working forces of the
organization, but where women have
given the best part of their lives to its es-
tablishment and maintenance, they can
understand what it means.
	Speaking of such laborers in the work,
who have been specially strong pillars in
the Society, and upon whom grave re-
sponsibilities have rested, there are many
still living (besides those beloved ones
who are gone behind the vail) who de-
serve to have their names upon a Roll of
Honor, too many to mention in a brief
notice, but to those who stand foremost
now, a fitting word of praise should be ac-
corded, and it would be almost impossi-
ble not to record here the names of our
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sister Jane S. Richards, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake. The strength and popularity (if I

[Column 2]
may be allowed the term) of the Society
owes much to its veteran women.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, whose sayings we
frequently quote, often remarked, “Make
anything popular and its success is as-
sured.” We want to make the Relief So-
ciety popular, it is already a success, and
our young people, both boys and girls,
should become familiar with the worth
and importance of this Society. An institu-
tion that holds in trust real estate, houses
and lands, wheat and merchandise and
various other property, including libra-
ries, cannot be considered as occupying
an inferior place in a community. There
have been many enterprises and home in-
dustries started and managed by women
under the auspices of this Society, not all
successful, but in the majority of cases
they have flourished.
	In caring for the sick and dying, it is
extremely doubtful if any other organiza-
tion in the world has done anything like
as much; in the silk industry, when Sister
Zina D. H. Young was President of it and
traveled this Western country over to
start the enterprise, it was the sisters of
the Relief Society that raised mulberry
trees, fed the worms, reeled the cocoons
and from the silk mannfactured articles
of apparel, also elegant and dainty silk
laces, ties, fichus and ribbons. Without
enumerating all the things we might, to
prove the assertions we have made and
are prepared to verify, we will just
mention that we started a Hospital with-
out funds, rented a house, and depending
almost entirely on monthly donations
from the Relief Society, and some paying
patients, carried it on for twelve years
under the auspices of a Board of Direc-
tors appointed by the General Society,
and it was estimated that two-thirds of
the cases treated were purely charity
work.
	Within the last few years Nurses’
Classes have been taught under the au-
spices of the Society, and we are safe in
saying that so far these classes have
been eminently successful and we may
add popular.
	On the seventeenth of March next
month it will be sixty-four years since the
Relief Society was organized, and it is
hoped that each separate branch will ob-
serve that day in some way significant,
not only of the past but of its present
prosperity and future growth and perma-
nency. It must grow and increase not
only in intelligence and attainments, mor-
ally and spiritually, that will benefit the
community generally as well as individu-
als, but in force and power by means of
thrift, wisdom and economy in the man-
agement of its enterprises and affairs
generally.
	The substantial things count for a great
deal, such as buildings for uses of meet-
ings, or homes for the homeless, and
granaries or bins for the storing of wheat
or breadstuff against a day of want or
famine. This is an enterprise entirely
new to women until our sisters com-
menced it, and the signs of the times are
even more significant now than ever be-
fore in this regard. The recent news of
the famine in Japan must certainly
awaken the tenderest pity and compas-
sion, and a desire to reach out a helping
hand to them in such sore need. In con-
sideration of these things and the proph-
ecies of modern as well as past times, it
behooves us to be always on duty, as a So-

[Column 3]
ciety that stands for relief with charity
and mercy for watchwords.
	It is certainly desired by those who have
at heart the best interests of this Society,
that this anniversary of the 17th of
March, 1906, shall be the banner year,
that the sisters shall rouse themselves to
extra exertions in each respective locality
and try to make every member happy
and glad in the spirit of love and bless-
ing in whatever form the demonstration
may be made, that all who will may par-
take of the enjoyment.


UNIQUE PARTY.
	The General Officers and Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. entertained in a most
pleasing and hospitable manner the Gen-
eral Officers and Board of the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association at the
residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall on
West Temple St., where very many not-
able gatherings have been held, from
time to time for years past.
	The party was given as a tribute of re-
spect and honor in memory of two of the
most illustrious women in Church history
and who have each of them occupied the
position of “Elect Lady” in the Relief
Society, Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. H. Young, whose names are coupled
together as household words through-
out all modern Israel.
	The desire of those now living who
knew these veteran sisters intimately, is
to keep their memories fresh and green
in the hearts of the younger generation,
that they may not only honor their
names, but follow in their footsteps, re-
membering that these heroines “blazed
the way” for the grand opportunities
open to them and those who follow after.
There are many others whose names we
mention with reverence, but these two
lives were closely blended and anniver-
saries of their birth come in the same
month. Sister Eliza R. Snow was born
Jan. 21, 1804, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young Jan. 31, 1821. Therefore, it
seemed a very fitting thing to meet in
memory of both between the two dates.
	Ceneral President Martha H. Tingey of
the Young Ladies’ Associations, ap-
pointed an able committee to take charge
of the program, Sisters Minnie J. Snow,
Julia A. Brixon and Joan Campbell.
	About fifty or more guests were gath-
ered at 2 p. m., the appointed hour, and
as a prelude to the opening the hymn by E.
R. Snow, “O, awake my slumbering min-
strel, was sung, young Mrs. Tuddenham
leading. General President, (really the
hostess of the occasion) made an informal
address of welcome that drew all hearts
towards her in sympathy and love for the
great loss she had so recently sustained in
the death of her beloved mother, Sister
M. Isabella Horne, who had always on
like occasions been present, and taken an
active part, a woman of affairs, both spir-
itual and temporal. General President
Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, responded
in behalf of the Relief Society, and spoke
in endearing terms of Sister Eliza R. and
Zina D. with whom she had been asso-
ciated and labored for so many years,
and rejoiced in meeting with those she
met here. General President Louie B.
Felt responded feelingly in behalf of the
Primary Association and paid a glowing
tribute to the women who had helped


[Column 1]
forward the work for the little people,
and had given her encouragement to
persevere in the mammoth undertaking.
	A quartette by the young ladies was
given, “Though deep’ning trials,” etc.,
and very much enjoyed by all.
	Greetings were then exchanged and
lively conversation kept up, piano solos
intervening, Miss Mattie Reed recently re-
cently returned from studying in Ger-
many, giving some choice musical selec-
tions; remarks were also made by several
of the sisters in appreciation of Sisters
Eliza R. and Zina D., the benefits de-
rived from their personal acquaintance,
and thelr remarkable life work. Those
who responded were Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, Emily S.
Richards, Edna L. Smith, Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Margaret P. Young, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, who referred lov-
ingly to Sisters Eliza and Zina, and Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts who spoke in rather
a humorous vein and Ruth M. Fox
	The most appetizing refreshments were
served to the guests by the young ladies
of the Board in their very charming and
delightful manner, and meantime Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith and John R. Win-
der arrived, having been unavoidably de-
tained with business engagements. Broth-
er W. B. Dougall was also present.
	Later the program was taken up, Sis-
ter Minnie J. Snow, chairman, making
an impromptu speech giving some inci-
dents connected with her illustrious kins-
woman, and introducing as the first on
the program, her little daughter Lucile,
who was the nearest relative present to
the celebrated poet whose hymns are now
sung in many languages. Little Lucile, in
a very sweet and graceful style, sang the
entire hymn, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest,” her mother playing the ac-
companiment. 
	Sister E. B. Wells had been given the
subject, “Sister Eliza as a Mother in
Israel.” The speaker dwelt at some
length on the life-work of this distin-
guished woman organizer, philanthrop-
ist, poet, writer and author, and as a
mother in deed to many thousands of
men and women, strictly speaking.
	Sister May Anderson spoke of a num-
ber of incidents in the life of Sister Eliza
that were fraught with intense tnterest to
the children of Zion and Primary work-
ers. Sister May B Talmage read with
fine expression and depth of feeling, Sis-
ter Eliza’s poem entitled “Evening
Thoughts, or What It Is To Be A Saint.”
Sister Maria Y. Dougall spoke more
especially of Sister Eliza’s motherly qual-
ities, though she had never been a moth-
er, and paid a charming tribute to her
labors among the children, also of her
foster-mother, Sister Zina, her delightful
story telling to all the children in her
rooms in the Lion House, and her regu-
lar daily prayers with those under her
care, Sister Susa Y. Gates also gave
reminiscences of the Lion House days,
mentioning along with Sister Eliza R.
and Zina D, some incidents connected
with her own mother’s sojourn in the
Lion House. President John R. Winder
favored the audience with brief remarks
and gave them good advice, alluded to
Sister Eliza’s peculiar and trying exper-
iences and asked that Sister Bathsheba
Smith relate the incident of Sister Eliza’s
composing the hymn that had just been
ung, O, my Father.” Sister Bathsheba

[Column 2]
responded, relating the conditions under
which Sister Eliza was inspired to write
the beautiful hymn that has thrilled the
souls of so many thousands.
	President Joseph F. Smith made an
eloquent and inspirational address to the
women of Zion, encouraging them to ex-
cel in all that would make for the uplift-
ing of humanity and the spread of truth
and righteousness.
	The exercises closed with all joining in
singing the hymn, “‘Mid scenes of con-
fusion and creature complaints,”––chorus
Home, Sweet Home. Benediction was
pronounced by Elder W. B. Dougall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HEART OF MY HEART.
	Ellis Meredith, a noted newspaper wo-
man and journalist, also a fine speaker,
who has traveled considerably to speak
on the suffrage question, has recently
published a book on motherhood relating
to children, in which she embodies some
original ideas of her own, the story is
exquisitely told.
	In her very first chapter she says, after
having opened with the creation, “We
prate wisely of Nature and her processes,
but after all, what do we know of the
mystery of life! We may speak glibly of
blood and brain, bone and sinew, but how
or why certain elements build tissue and
others nerves, none of us can tell. We
only know that it is as it was in the begin-
ning. She was wiser who said, ‘My soul
doth magnify the Lord.’”
	She touches deeply and beautifully up-
on the joys of maternity, the relations of
father and mother towards their offspring
before and after birth; true and false
conditions, and brings in many wise and
helpful sayings that stir the soul to
thoughts of high and lofty life-purposes,
though they are simple, homely things
that all women can understand if they
will. It is unlike any book we have ever
seen and must meet a want in the pa-
rents’ classics that no other book we have
seen ever has. We may certainly call it
rare among books. She speaks of liking
the old Greek idea that made men bow
before a woman approaching maternity.
Here is one paragraph with which I will
close this brief notice:
	“Child of my heart, lying under my
heart, with my relationship to you has
grown a new relationship to your father:
he is more than lover, husband and king;
high priest of the Most High; love has
become sacred and holy beyond words,
almost beyond thought. I have been
singing low to myself that beautiful solo
from ‘The Messiah’:
	‘He shall feed his flocks like a shepherd,
and gently, gently leadeth those that are
with young.’”


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Honorary President
of the N. W, S. A., and one of the most
famous women of our time, perhaps the
most renowned, was celebrated in Wash-
ington, D. C, on Thursday, February 15,
and on the same day a committee from
the N. W. S. A., of whom she had charge
had a hearing before the Woman Suffrage
Committee of Congress. Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. Joseph Howell, of
Utah were among the number.

[Column 2]
	An excellent illustrated article of Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift appeared in the Feb-
ruary number of “The Ladies Review.”
Mrs. Swift is the president of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United
States; she is a very handsome woman of
high cultivation, has refined taste and an
excellent heart, she is just and upright in
character, and is a humanitarian in prin-
ciple. Her history as told is extreme-
ly interesting, but that which is untold
must be even more delightful. She is
fearless for the right, a staunch suffra-
gist, and withal a woman in whom to re-
pose confidence without doubts of her
untrustworthiness.
	At last a woman has argued a case be-
fore the supreme court of the United
States, and the roof of the old senate
chamber, where the court meets in Wash-
ington, has not fallen in. Women began
to be admitted as practitioners in the su-
preme court many years ago, but no wo-
man has ever stood up and conducted
one of these animated conversations with
the big gentlemen in black gowns which
is called arguing a case in the supreme
court room. It fell to the lot of Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the pioneer woman
lawyer in Washington, to perform this
feat, and she is said to have acquitted
herself well.—Hartford Times.
	The Executive session of the National
Council of Women will be held in Toledo,
Ohio, the first week in April. Sunday
evening, April 1st, there will be religious
exercises, President Mary Wood Swift
presiding; distinguished speakers will ad-
dress the meeting. Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday morning will be executive
sessions for the transaction of business.
Afternoon sessions will be given to reports
or papers from affiliated societies. The
evening programs will be arranged by the
Local Council of Toledo under the super-
vision of Mrs. Pauline Steinem. Promin-
ent speakers will address these meetings
and the public is invited to be present.
Mrs. Steinem is one of the most charming
women we have ever met, brilliant, logi-
cal, affable and altogether lovable.
	The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its 38th Annual Convention in
Baltimore, Md., this year, from Wednes-
day, Feb. 7th to 13th inclusive. Susan
B. Anthony, Pioneer suffragist and Hon-
orary President, was present and partici-
pated as usual, though the Associated
Press has not sent much news of the pro-
ceedings westward. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Utah Suffrage or-
ganization, is in Baltimore, and will ably
represent Utah in all movements for ad-
vancement of the cause of women. She
has been for many years engaged in the
work and is thoroughly qualified. We
hear she has been joined in Baltimore by
Mrs. Joseph Howell and Mrs. John Henry
Smith.
	Mrs. Mary E. Howell, wife of our Utah
representative in Congress, Hon. Joseph
Howell, gave an elegant reception at
their residence in Washington, D. C.,
1828 Calvert street, on the Heights. Mrs.
Howell was assisted by her sweet daugh-
ter, Mrs. Lewis T. Cannon. “Mrs. How-
ell wore a handsome costume of black
lace over white silk, and Mrs. Cannon


was pretty and attractive in a toilette of
white silk. There were ices and other
dainties served amidst an atmosphere
of hospitality and homeness. Mr. and
Mrs. Cannon have two interesting young
hopefuls to add greater vitality to the
bright family circle of Mr. and Mrs. How-
ell. Mrs. Howell will receive again early
in February.” At a recent levee at the
White House, among the guests were
Representative and Mrs. Howell, Senator
and Mrs. Heyburn, Mr. and Mrs. Cannon,
also Senator Warren of Wyoming.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EFFORT MAY OVERCOME ENVIRON-
			MENT.
	In dealing with a text so sweeping in
its assertiveness, one is met on the
threshold of its consideration by a ques-
tion of its truth, to those who have stood
face to face with the problems of life, and
have battled with its difficulties, winning
after the utmost effort but a partial suc-
cess; who have witnessed the struggles of
friends and neighbors as they, too, have
sought to shape circumstances to their
needs; and have seen them go down to
defeat, such an assertion may seem but
a mockery of their distress, and yet there
is much to sustain the assumption. No
good, great or small, has ever been ac-
complished but by effort. But for effort,
man would yet be housed in the caves of
the earth, disputing with the beasts of the
forests his right to supremacy. Every ad-
vance in the fields of intelligence and civ-
ilization has been won only by long con-
tinued effort and perseverance. The
struggle upward, from darkness into
light, has been long and tedious, the way
beset with difficulties; but little by little
the advance has been made, the mind has
b[-]en developed and the earth subdued;
education has widened the field of oppor-
tunity, science has lain bare the secrets of
the heavens, art and industry have filled
the world with beauty and comfort, and
we of today are enjoying the fruits of the
efforts, and successes, of the toilers of the
past. Every victory gained brings to view
others to be won.
	The world is still progressing, and will
continue to do so; it is for us to say,
whether we shall go on with it to its ulti-
mate destiny, as a fit dwelling place for
the Master, or, allowing ourselves to fall
behind, be pushed aside, forgotten or de-
spised.
	Work is one of the first great laws of
the universe, we cannot escape its man-
dates; then if we must labor, let us look
well to the manner of its performance.
“What is worth doing at all is worth
well doing.” Let us train our hands to
skilled and practical industry, cultivate
our minds and train them to do their best.
Brains grow strong by use. If we would
have strong minds, we must put them to
right thinking. If we would succeed we
must be sure our efforts are well directed.
If our desires are great, let us see that
they are such as God and conscience can
approve; then bend our energies to their
attainment, stand firm and persevere,
learn to labor and to wait. It required
the labor of thousands of men through
many years to complete the Pyramids of
Egypt, but they stand today, after the
lapse of centuries, a wonder of the world,
and a monument to the industry and per-

[Column 2]
sistent effort of the toilers whose weary
hands have long since crumbled to dust.
	Little by little by little the ant builds
his home, gathering his material by slow
degrees, here a tiny pebble, there a twig
or glittering fragment; toiling early and
late, never counting fatigue, pushing aside
obstacles. overcoming difficulties and
teaching by his silent industry a lesson of
persevering effort. Shall we who boast
superior intelligence be content with less
success?
	Character is either the stepping-stone
to success or the stumbling-block over
which we trip and go down to defeat.
Every man and every woman is the build-
er of his or her character. As we build
so shall the structure stand.
	If our characters be strong, we shall not
falter mid the trials and battles of life;
but be our station high or low, will strug-
gle on to perfection in our sphere.
	Life at best is but a continual warfare
of the good and bad within our breasts;
let us be valiant in upholding the right.
	It requires as much courage to meet the
little trials of daily life as would be nec-
essary to lead an army up to the firing
line; and not all of the heroes are to be
found on the field of battle.
	Every morning brings a renewal of op-
portunity. Every day is a little life, and re-
peated days make up the cycle of the years;
as our days are spent, so shall the years
be counted, and their record stand through
time and eternity.
	Let us seek for contentment with our
surroundings; it matters not so much
where we are as what we are; not so
much what our life’s duties may be as
how we discharge the obligations. God
created all things, great and small, let us
honor His work by respecting ourselves.
	Better be a little mountain daisy, lend-
ing grace and sweetness to some barren
hillside, than a gorgeous rose lost mid a
maze of beauty in a garden of flowers.
There is no environment so undesirable
that we cannot profit by its lessons and
better its conditions.
	If we wish for hlgher places, let us fit
ourselves to fill and adorn them.
	The great men of our country, those
who have outlined its policies and shaped
its destinies–– Webster, Clay, Jackson,
Lincoln and many others–– were almost,
without exception, of poor and obscure
parentage; yet by personal effort and
force of character, they rose to greatness
and power, and while the nation stands
their names and deeds will shine as a bea-
con light to struggling ambition.
	The conditions surrounding the early
settlers of these valleys and the whole
west, emphasize the fact that effort not
only may but has overcome environment.
Who that considers the struggles of those
first great pioneers, in their efforts to
redeem the desert wastes, can doubt its
truth? But for their courage and perse-
verance this fertile valley would still be
unreclaimed, a rendezvous for roaming
bands of Indians.
	All about us is nature in her sublimest
aspect; every day she is giving forth in-
spiration in sunshine and shade, in cloud
and shadow. The mountains are calling
to us to “come up higher,” shall we be
content to grovel at their feet, mere plod-
ders in the ruts of ignorance and sloth?
	There is no age limit set for the ac-
quirement of knowledge. “Never too old
to learn” is a well worn saying but a true

[Column 3]
one. Gladstone, England’s greatest mod-
ern statesman, began the study of a for-
eign language when nearly eighty years of
age, and mastered it so well that he was
enabled to win a great diplomatic victory
for his country over a hostile rival. Never
give up to the advancing years; we are
just as old as we think ourselves to be.
There will always be something for us to
do; let us keep up the fight as long as we
can. Better die with a new task unfin-
ished than sit idle, too timid to begin.
	If we would accomplish anything
worth while, we must bring faith and
courage to our task. He who only half
tries will but half succeed; if after we have
done our best failure comes, let us not be
discouraged, resistance will but strengthen
the sinews for greater effort. Do not fear
to stand alone. The tree forced to meet
the wind, but sinks its roots deeper into
the soil, and stands firm for repeated
blasts.
	If we go to the highest peak in our
lofty mountains, there, on its bleak brow,
we shall find the Pinion Pine, far below,
are his more timid kindred of the forest,
clinging to favored places, sheltered on
sunny slopes from the chilling winds,
and drawing nourishment from the yield-
ing soil, while he, aspiring to loftier place,
strikes for the summit, and wrapping the
forbidding rocks with his roots, struggles
upward to his goal. The winds roar fierce-
ly about him, shriek through his scanty
branches, and toss his defiant plumes,
they but increase the tension of his
gnarled roots, and, bending his trunk to
meet the rocks, he mounts steadily up-
ward till his pinion sweeps the arching
skyline, and he stands supreme, king of
the mountains.
	As in nature so in human affairs, it is
ever the brave and enduring who win in
the race.
	Should the winds of adversity assail you,
		Or storms beat in fury where you tread,
	Should friends grow cold or desert you,
		Be not dismayed, there is light overhead.
	’Tis easy to drift with the shore tide,
		It takes courage to breast the wave,
	Better fall where the battle is fiercest
		Than sink in a coward’s grave.
				ELEANOR P. GROSEBECK


MOTHER’S WORK.
		MARICOPA STAKE.

	Lesson 1.—Sacredness of Home.

	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to
get the children’s confidence. We should
never lose it, and thus let it become nec-
essary to regain it. (c) Uproot evil by
planting good.

	Lesson 2.—Social Purity.
	
	(a) How shall we create a higher social
standing? (b) Provide reading matter
for the children that will entertain while
it instructs; stories of noble men and
women, and brave and noble deeds. (c)
Provide plenty of innocent amusements,
healthful exercises and agreeable employ-
ment for our young people, and mingle 
with them in their amusements.

	Lesson 3.—School Life of Children.

	(a) Teach them to respect their prin-
pal and teachers. Avoid criticisms in
their hearing. (b) Train them early to


[Column 1]
do every thing possible for themselves in 
getting ready for school. (c) Teach them
the necessity of regularity in attendance,
punctuality and obedience.

		Lesson 4.—Self Culture.

	(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties of
nature. Beautiful flowers, beautiful scen-
ery and beautiful pictures create beauti-
ful thoughts, and beautiful thoughts make
good deeds and beautiful faces. (b) Use
good language and avoid slang. (c)
Study self-control. If we cannot control
ourselves we cannot control our chil-
dren. 

		Lesson 5.—Our Children.

	(a) The rights of childhood. We are
apt to think that children have no rights
which we are bound to respect. (b) We
should respect their rights and feelings,
and thus teach them to respect ours. (c)
Cultivate truth and honesty in them by
being truthful and honest ourselves. (d)
Never tell an untruth to a child for any
purpose.
	
		Lesson 6.—Our Sons.

	(a) Teach our boys to be pure in their 
lives. (b) Teach them to protect the
opposite sex from harm at all times. (c)
Teach them how to be good husbands
and fathers.

		Lesson 7.—Our Daughters.

	(a) Be frank and truthful with them in
all things and thus win and retain their
confidence. (b) How to conduct them-
selves in the presence of young men. (c)
Teach them how to take care of children
and sick people. (d) Teach them to be 
good wives and mothers.

	Lesson 8.—Motherhood: its Duties and
			Responsibilities.

	(a) The highest calling and the choicest
blessing is the gift of motherhood. (b)
The right of every child to be well-born.
(c) A child's education should begin at
least a year before it is born. (d) How
mothers can influence and endow their
unborn children.

	Lesson 9. Woman’s Influence.

	(a) The power of a charming woman to
lead men up to all that is noble, or down
to the depths of degredation. (b) Wom-
an's duty to keep herself neat and at-
tractive after marriage as well as be-
fore.

		Lesson 10.—Virtue.

	(a) The crown of womanhood. (b)
A virtuous woman—her price is far above
rubies. (c) We should be diligent in
teaching our children to guard their vir-
tue as they would their lives.

	Lesson 7.—Respect for the Aged.

	(a) “Honor thy father and thy mother.”
(b) Teach children to show respect and
kindness. (c) How can children best
lighten their parents’ burdens and show
them the greatest honor? (d) Teach
children to be respectful to old age every-
where. 

	Lesson 12. True Object of Relief
		Society Work.

	(a) Visiting the sick. (b) Looking after
the poor and needy. (c) Words of cheer

[Column 2]
and comfort to the down-hearted. Kind
words and a pleasant smile are sometimes
of more value than temporal aid. (d)
Improvement in home life. Make home
attractive.
			CELIA A. SMITH,
Cor. Sec. of Maricopa Stake R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Catherine A.
Conover, who died Jan, 5. 1906. Our dear Sister
was lovingly called “Aunt Kate.” The news of
her death will indeed bring sorrow to many
hearts
	Especially will she be missed by the Mutual
Improvement girls and Temple workers in San-
pete Stake, as well as her own loved ones.
	She came to Sanpete in 1889, and was called
as a Temple worker, and for the past ten years
was Matron of the Manti Temple.
	After she joined the Manti Ward, she was
chosen as second Counselor to the Stake President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., which position she held for
about ten years. Her counsel was of a sweet and
encouraging nature. How her heart would swell
with love for the youth of Israel. She was much
interested in their welfare. Her wise counsel,
given always in the spirit of kindness and humil-
ity will be greatly missed. She was always kind
and gentle in her manner, full of charity and sym-
pathy so that all who knew her loved her She
was indeed an example of unselfish devotion to
her loved ones, as well as her friends and in fact
all with whom she was associuted. She possessed
the true spirit of hospitality.
She is not dead, who toiled for Zion’s cause,
	Truth’s advocate endowed with noble zeal,
Truly her fixed determination was
	To do on earth our Heavenly Father’s will.
Just now her friendly face we cannot see,
	But none the less fond memory holds her dear,
She lives! she lives and sings rejoicingly,
	With many loved ones in a loftier ephere.
					C. & M. WILLARDSON.


[Column 1]
	Sister Nancy Margaret Osborn Nielson was
born in Greene Co., Indiana, March 8, 1840.
Came to Utah in 1852 with her father’s family; her
mother died on the plains. They settled in East
Weber Weber Co. Utah. On Feb. 11, 1857, she
was married to Elder Hans Enoch Nielson. They
were among the first settlers of Hyrum, coming
here in the year 1860. She was the mother of
eleven children, six of whom will meet her on the
other side, while five, three sons and two
daugh ers are left here to revere the memory of a
kind and loving mother.
	Oh the 9th of May, 1878, she was chosen as
Secretary of the Hyrum Ward Relief Society of
which she had been a member since its organiza-
tion, ten years before, May 9, 1868. She made a
most efficient Secretary and performed her duty
faithfully until Nov. 1, 1891 when she was honor-
ably released. Seven months later she was again
chosen one of the officers of the Relief Society in
the Hyrum Ward, this time as first Counselor. In
May, 1893, she was chosen President of the Relief
Society, which office she held until Feb. 1899, when
on account of failing health she was honorably
released, but on the 25th of October, 1901, when
the Hyrum Ward had been divided into three
wards, Sister N M. Nielson was again chosen
as first counselor in the Ward in which she re-
sided (Hyrum 3rd Ward). Her health did not
improve, however, and on July 18, 1904, she was
again released.
	She was an energetic and able president, a wise
counselor, a true friend. and a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She died Feb. 2, 1906, at Hyrum, Utah.
		Her trials are o’er, the victory won,
		The reward of faithful Saints is sure.
			May we cherish her memory,
			May it lead us on,
		Till the end of our days, and our race is run.
						GEORGENE RALPH.
In Loving Remembrance of Emily Eliza Maddi-
	son; who died very suddenly of heart failure.
	At Providence, Utah, November 28, 1905, Emily
Eliza Hemming, the beloved wife of John F.
Maddison; she was born in Coventry, Eng-

[Column 2]
land, on the 3rd day of January, 1837, Em-
braced the Gospel in her youth and was banished
several times from her father’s house for the gos-
pel’s sake; crossed the sea in the ship William
Tapscott; she waited on the sick during the voy-
age; arrived in Utah in 1859; lived the first winter
in Wellsville, Cache County, and then went to
Providence to her permanent home. She married
John F. Maddison in 1860, and had five children,
who died in their infancy, but she reared two
motherless children. In her younger days she took
an active part in the Primary and Sunday School
work and identified herself with the Relief Soci-
ety from the beginning, and was the first secre-
tary, and at her death was first counselor to the
President. Through all her affliction of sorrow
and trouble and all the hardships of a new country
she was never known to complain. She was a
faithful wife and mother; she was always willing
to wait upon the sick and render assistance to the
poor in their distress; was a true, faithful Latter-
day Saint, and was beloved by all the Saints.
		CHRISTINA THEURER, President.
		JEMIMA CAMPBELL, Secretary
				Providence Relief Society.
	SKETCH OF SISTER MARY JOHN.
	Sister Mary John was born in Wales Dec. 23,
1831; became converted to the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
the year 1857. Was married to David John, now
President of the Utah Stake of Zion, in Cardiff,
South Wales, Feb. 8, 1860, They left Livevpool,
April 16, 1861, in the ship Manchester; and
reached Provo five months later, where they lo-
cated and remained until her death.
	Sis[-]er John held the position of secretary of
the Third Ward Relief Society for ten years. For
eleven years she was counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the presidency of the Utah Stake Relief
Society, and at the death of Sister Smoot suc-
ceeded her as president, which position she has
filled for twenty-one years.
	She was a faithful worker and was loved and
respected by all who knew her. She was the
mother of one son and eight daughters, one son
and three daughters now living.
	Sister John was one of those noble spirits re-
served to come forth in the latter days, and has
lived the life of a true Saint, Her death occurred
Dec. 14, 1905, the immediate cause being pneu-
monia, and she is sincerely mourned by her many
friends.							C. B. P.
	DEATH OF ONE OF OUR BELOVED SISTERS.
	Sister Mary A. Morton Smith was the daughter
of Albert and Josephine Norton, and the wife of
Albert S. Smith.
	She was born Sept. 29, 1874; died Sept. 26, 1905,
at her parents’ home in Panguitch. At an early
age she was associated with the Primary Associa-
tion and the Mutual Improvement Association.
For a number of years she was secretary, treas-
urer and librarian of the Y. L. M. I. Association
of Panguitch.
	In 1901 she was married to Albert S. Smith of
Parowan. They made their home in Circleville,
where she became an active member of the Relief
Society and of the Y. L. M. I. A. at Circleville;
these positions she filled wite honor.
	She was the mother of three childten, all of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a husband, a
father and mother, two brothers and a sister, as
well as many rolatives and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting-
house, at 3 o’clock on the 8th. The speakers all,
spoke of the good qualities of the departed. The,
choir rendered beautiful singing. May her loved
ones be comforted, in the assurance that she is not
dead but gone to continne her labors in a higher
and better world.				M. L. H.
		ELIZABETH P. NEWTON.
			(Died Dec. 3, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
in his infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Elizabeth Parker Newton; and,
	Whereas. In her departura we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emula-
tion of all.
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family, in this
their sad hour of affliction and distress, and that
her memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance,
to remain with us as long as life shall last, with
the hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved, That a copy of


these resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of
the Nineetenth Ward Relief Society.
			ELIZA K. WILLIS.
		(Died December 29, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father,
in His infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst,
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Eliza K. Willis; and,
	Whereas, in her departure we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emu-
lation of all
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of affliction and distress, and that her
memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance, to
remain with us as long as life shall last, with the
hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved. That a copy of these
resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of the
Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.
	Committee: Sarah A. Hancock, Chairman;
Agnes G. Branch, Victoria Thurman, Officers
and Members Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


PARTY AT PLEASANT VIEW.
	The sisters of Pleasant View, Weber
Co., met at the home of Mrs. M. A. Cra-
gun, January 18, 1906, to celebrate the
thirtieth anniversary of their organization
and surprise our president, Mary J. May-
cock, who has served in this capacity
since our organization.
	After partaking of a sumptuous repast,
we held a splendid meeting, where Bishop
Charles A. Hickenlooper spoke of the
good work the sisters had performed,
and a number of others made timely re-
marks.
	Pres. Maycock and her first counselor,
Sister Eliza P. Rhees, who has served in
this capacity the greater part of thirty
years, were each presented with a beau-
tiful vase as a token of our love and es-
teem for their long labor in this society,
	The following song, composed by Sis-
ter Eliza P. Rhees and sung at our
last annual day program, was rendered
during the meeting;
	(Tune: Home, Sweet Home.)
In the year of our history eighteen forty-two,
In the beautiful city of the Saints called Na uvoo,
There Joseph the Prophet, inspired from above,
Ordained our dear sisters their labor of love.
			CHORUS:
	Come, sisters, come;
		We’ll all be united, and ever be one.
He said, “You’re appointed and now set apart
To labor in Zion to comfort the hearts
Of the poor and the needy, the sick and depressed,
The widow and orphan in lonely distress.
			Chorus,
Look well to the orphans, and teach them the way
From  paths of true virtue never to stray;
And counsel the wayward, where’er they may be
To overcome evil and from sin to be free.
			Chorus,
By feeding the hungry and clothing the poor,
Never turning the needy away from our door,
With benevolence true and charity mild,
We’ll endeavor to bless every woman and child.
			Chorus.
			M. A. CRAGUN,
				Assistant Secretary.


HONORING SISTER LINDSAY.
	Brief report of an exceedingly pleasant
party given Feb. 2nd 1906, at 2, p. m, in
honor of the 82nd anniversary of the
birthday of our beloved President, Julia
P. Lindsay in Paris, Idaho.
	The social was given by her counselor,
Sister Amelia Hoge of Paris, at whose
home we were cordially welcomed and
pleasantly entertained.
	Among those present were the Stake
Presidency, Wm. Budge, Jas. H. Hart,
and Wm. L. Rich.
	Stake officers of the Relief Society, Y.
L. M. I. A., and Primary Association.
	One pleasing feature of the program
was an address by Pres. Wm. Budge,
who paid a glowing tribute to Sister
Lindsay, for her unceasing energy, and
untiring devotion in the Relief Society
work for twenty-seven years.
	A beau iful song was rendered by Misses
Lizzie Hoge and Sarah Grimmett. Pres.
Lindsay gratefully acknowledged the
kindness of her friends.
	The guests, about thirty in number,
partook of a sumptuous meal and then
dispersed, rejoicing in the privilege of
participating in such an enjoyable re-
union.
NANCY H. ALLRED,
R. S. Stake Sec.


R. S. REPORT.
HYRUM STAKE.
	The conference of Hyrum stake Relief
society was held in the Stake House at
Hyrum, November 18, 1905, President
Nellie E. Parkinson presiding, Counselor
Lovisa H. Allen taking charge of the
forenoon meeting. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Hyrum first and second
wards also College ward were reported
in good condition by the respective presi-
dents,
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke at length
upon the duties of the Relief Society in
regard to the training of the young peo-
ple and the beauties of the organization,
	Bishop L. P. Christiansen of Mt. Ster-
ling ward spoke encouragingly to the sis-
ters, and asked the Lord to bless them in
their noble work.
	Singing, "Guide us, O thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction was pronounced by
Elder Elias Davis of Mendon.
	The afternoon session convened at 2
p.m. President Nellie Parkinson again
presided, with Counselor Elizabeth
Critchlow taking charge of the exercises.
After singing and prayer, roll call showed
213 members present. Minutes of the
afternoon session of the conference held
August 15, 1905, read and approved.
	A lecture from the "Outlines" on Court-
ship was given by Sister Vilate Davis of
Avon.
	A song was rendered by a member of
College ward Relief Society, after which
Sister Rose Needham of Logan spoke of
the many blessings she had received; en-
couraged the sisters to do their duties
cheerfully and to look upon the bright


side of life; also sang "Count your bless-
ings."
	Sister Zina Y. Card again addressed the
congregation. We need to attend all of
our meetings; we live but one day at a
time, so do not worry, but live each day
as near right as possible. We are here
to be tried, but many of our trials are of
our own making. The Spirit of God is
with us when we strive to do our duty.
Look well after our children, love them,
pray with them, make them worthy men
and women, and you will be blessed.
	President Nellie E. Parkinson said: It
has been a privilege to be here today.
May we take to our hearts the advice and
instructions we have heard, and may our
Father help us to do our duty.
	Singing, "Prayer is the soul's sincere de-
sire. Benediction by Counselor Lovisa
Allen. N. E. P.


In the House of Representatives, Dec.
7th, 1905, Mr. French introduced the fol-
lowing bill, which was referred to the
Committee on Election of President,
Vice-President, and Representatives in
Congress, and ordered to be printed:
	A bill to protect the rights of women
citizens of the United States to register
and vote for members of the House of
Representatives.
	Whereas, The right to choose members
of the House of Representatives is vest-
ed by the Constitution in the people of
the several States without distinction of
sex, but for want of proper legislation,
has hitherto been restricted to one-half
of the people. For the purpose, there-
fore, of correcting this error and of giv-
ing effect to the Constitution,
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, that
women who are citizens of the United
States, and possess such qualifications of
age, residence, property, or education, as
may be required of men to make them
legal voters in the several States, shall be
eligible to register and vote in all States
of the Union at all elections for members
of the House of Representatives.


SPICE CAKE.—One cup of sugar, one-
half cup of butter, one-half cup of molas-
ses, and one scant teaspoonful each of
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and a little
nutmeg; beat well together, then add one
cup of sour milk. with one tespoonful of
soda stirred in until it is quite foamy. 
Flour enough to make it quite stiff, and
one cup of raisins, floured. Bake slowly
and ice when cool.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 34	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MARCH, 1906		No. 9


CONTENTS. 
Mary R. Gray..................Emma J. Bennett.	57
Mothers’ Work.............................................	58
Errata...........................................................	58
Memorial Meetings.....................................	59
Miss Anthony at Home...............................	59
R. S. Reports:—Morgan Stake....................	61
	Nebo Stake—Alpine Stake—Uintah
	Stake....................................................	62
	North Sanpete......................................	63
Relief Society Anniversary..........................	63
Anniversary:—Iosepa, Skull Valley............	
	........................Ellen K. Makaiau, Sec.	63
In Memoriam...............................................	64
Obituary.......................................................	64
Rabbi Fliesher on Woman...........................	64
Editorial:—Miss Susan B. Anthony—........
	The Lion House Party..........................	60
	A Happy Social Event.........................	61
Poetry.—Life as a River......Lydia D. Alder	57
	The Birth of a Century Louise Coulson
	Two Mothers.............Maude Baggarly	59


LIFE AS A RIVER. 
	INSCRIBED TO MRS. E. B WELLS.

A river winding on and on,
	Ne'er still nor resting by the way,
By verdant hills 'neath forest shades, 
	Through silent night or burning day.
Anon in valleys gently flows, 
	Sings there in lazy undertone; 
Its current slow, no ripple's crest
	Is foaming in the pathway's lone.

Defined its course by foliage
	More dense or sparse as rich the land; 
Or like unto a co'ling thing, 
	It shimmers o'er the golden sand.
Through mountain pass it rushes wild, 
	Then thund'ring dashes down below;
O, awe inspiring its descent
	Amid a phosphorescent glow!

A little brook or murm'ring stream,
	Would babble on unto the end;
But crystal springs send rivulets,
	Mingling they in volume blend.
No life can be lived in a day,
	No time for love or tenderness;
No flowers growing by the way,
	To thrill beneath the wind's caress.

But like the harp so famed of old,
	A thousand strings of melody--
That quiv'ring 'neath a gentle touch
	Are tratic--fierce struck ruthlessly,
To peace are stilled its throbbings wild,
	Its chords vibrating tune regain;
Divinely sweet the songs it sings--
	It trembles with the loved one's name.

All devious is the way ofe life,
	And other lives are in it wound;
So beautiful of it a part,
	By ties eternal firmly bound.
All wise the destined course of life,
	To gather gems of priceless worth;
From one to multitudes unknown,
	For an inheritance of earth.
				LYDIA D. ALDER

With love.
February 28, 1906.


[Column 1]
[Portrait of a woman]
			MARY R. GRAY.
	Sister Mary R. Gray departed this life
Nov. 21, 1905, in Idaho Falls, Idaho. On
the 6th of November, 1905, in company
with Sister Emma Jane Bennett, she left
Salt Lake City for the north, pleasure
and business bent, and to meet with and
renew old time friendships and acquain-
tances formed long years ago.
	On reaching Ogden a few hours were
very pleasantly spent with Bro. B. J. Ben-
nett and family.
	In the evening we resumed our journey
northward, reaching Idaho Falls, our ob-
jective point, Tuesday, Nov. 7th, at 7 p.m.
We were met at the depot by Brother
Tister, Gilbert J. Wright and Oscar A.
Johannesen and driven to the latter’s
home.
	After a visit of two days we took train
for Shelley, a small but thriving little
town, situated eight miles south of Idaho
Falls, and partook of the hospitality of
Thos. J. Bennett and family.
	We returned Sunday evening for the
express purpose of attending a R. S. Con-
ference, which was held on Monday even-
ing, Nov. 13, in the Falls.
	Aunt Mary, by which name she was so
well and favorably known, retired quite
early in the evening, and from every ap-
pearance in her usual good health.
	It proved, however, to be her last rest-
ing place until her noble spirit took its
flight.
	Apparently she fell into a sweet slum-
ber, without any sign of ache or pain, but
grew weaker and weaker until the end
came.
	Her passing away was as if falling into
a peaceful sleep.
	All was done that loving and tender
hands could do for her comfort and resto-
ration, but the Allwise Ruler of mortal
beings decreed otherwise.

[Column 2]
	When the final summons came her old-
est daughter Minnie and many friends
were at her bedside, and witnessed the
passing away of one of God’s noblest
daughters.
	Aunt Mary was born in Toronto, Cana-
da. in the year 1833, and was thus in the
72nd year of her life.
	With her parents and two brothers they
migrated to Kirtland in 1837, to cast
their lot with the body of the Church, and
later to Richmond, Ray County, Mis-
souri. 
	She passed through the trials of those
early days of the Church in Ohio and
Missouri, with a strong and lasting con-
viction that Joseph Smith was a seer, rev-
elator and prophet of God.
	With her mother, two brothers and
three sisters she reached Salt Lake City
in 1861, which has been her home contin-
ually ever since.
	In 1862 she married Andrew Scott
Gray. They had born to them seven
children.
	Her sincere devotion to the great Lat-
ter-day work soon brought her in close
touch with the leading sisters of the
Church.
	In October, 1877, when the Relief So-
ciet was reorganized in the 15th Ward, she
was set apart as a teacher.
	January, 1889, she was chosen first
counselor to President Sarah M. Kimball
until the latter’s demise.
	December, 1898, she was again chosen
first counselor to President Harriet A.
Badger, daughter of Prest. John Taylor;
and held this office until the ward was
divided in 1903.
	She was frequently honored on her
birthday by those sisters that loved and
knew her best. On one of these occasions
about 30 sisters were present when Sister
Zina D. H. Young spoke in tongues and
the interpretation thereof given by Sister
Catherine Evans, which brought joy and
consolation to their hearts.
	Her sympathetic heart and deeds of
charity to the sick and afflicted were the
crowning features of her well spent life.
	She was a bosom friend of Sister Pres-
endia Smith Kimball.
	The latch strings of the doors of her
domicile were always out for Conference
visitors and innumerable friends.
	Hers was the first home to receive, with
joy, the babe born in that sacred edifice,
the Temple, at the time of its dedication,
in 1893.
	From her sweet and motherly lips could
often be heard, “Always room for one
more,” until every room under the peace-
ful roof could be seen strewn with beds.
	Her remains were brought to Salt Lake
City for interment, accompanied by Em-
ma J. Bennett, A. J. Gray and Mary W.
Gray, and laid peacefully away in the city
cemetery.
	Her funeral was largely attended by
sympathizing friends.
	The speakers, who all paid a glowing
tribute to her memory, were President
Joseph F. Smith, Apostles John Henry


Smith and Charles W. Penrose, Elders
Nephi L. Morris and Homer Duncan, the
latter her old captain in crossing the 
plains, and Bishop George H. Taylor.
	Peace be to her ashes. 
		EMMA J. BENNETT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		R. S. UINTAH STAKE.
			Subjects.
	Our boys and girls as fathers and
mothers of the next generation.
	Lecture 1.—Parental culture and force
of example. Reference: Doctrine and
Covenants, Testimony, Book of Mor-
mon and questions.
	Lecture 2.—Current events of the
Church. Reference: Era, Our Times.
	Lecture 3.—Etiquette in the home. Ref-
erence: Any good authority in Church
works, magazines or journals.
	Lecture 4.—Life of Joseph Smith.
(Govern yourselves on the time of lec-
ture.)
	Lecture 5.—The objective point of view
Reference: Testimony.
	Lecture 6.—Book of Mormon and
questions.
	Lecture 7.—Current events.
	Lecture 8.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 9.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 10.—Through the law of here-
dity. Testimony.
	Lecture 11.—Book of Mormon and
questions.
	Lecture 12.—Current events.
	Lecture 13.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 14.—Intemperance. Reference:
Testimony.
	Lecture 15.—Book of Mormon and ques-
tions.
	Lecture 16.—Current events.
	Lecture 17. Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 18.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 19.—Physiological Psychology
down to wild oats. Testimony.
	Lecture 20.—Book of Mormon and questions.
Lecture 21.—Current events.
	Lecture 22.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 23.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 24.—Wild oats down to part
second. Testimony.
(Signed) PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.

		ENSIGN STAKE.
		Mothers’ Work.
			Lecture 1.
	(a) The ideal mother.
	(b) The over-indulgent mother; the
self-indulgent mother.
	(c) What about the father?
	(d) What is most desirable in a
mother?
	(e) Are our girls being prepared for
ideal motherhood?

			Lecture 2.
	The Ideal Mother (continued.)

[Column 2]
	(a) How much may Church or society
expect of mothers of young children?
	(b) Co-operative motherhood. Let
mothers occasionally take care of children
of their friends; giving opportunity for
meeting going, special work, sewing,
etc.
	(c) Each mother responsible for con-
duct of all children in her home.

			Lecture 3.
	(a) Plan carefully each day’s and
week’s work.
	(b) Stated times for sleeping and eat-
ing.
	(c) People should not be needlessly
disturbed during sleep.

			Lecture 4.
		Economy in the Home.
	(a) Economy of time.
	(b) Use of baskets and trays in carrying
things from basements, store-rooms and
tables.
	(c) Economy in buying.
“He who buys what he does not want,
Will sometimes want what he cannot
	buy.”
	(d) Advantages and disadvantages of
wholesale buying.
	(c) As much judgement required in
spending as in earning money.

			Lecture 5.
	Economy in the Home (continued.)
	(a) The sinfulness of waste.
“Wilful waste makes woeful want.”
	(b) The example of the Savior in the
Feast of the Loaves and Fishes.
	(c) Small savings in the fuel, lights,
food, clothing, etc., aggregate much.

			Lecture 6.
		Neatness in the Home.
	(a) Personal appearance.
	(b) Taste in dress. Do not wear visit-
ing or street dresses for house work. Per-
cales or wash goods are suitable for home
work.
	(c) The advantages of aprons and work
sleeves.
	(d) Table manners.
	(e) Selfishness and unselfishness at
table.
	(f) Handle no food but your own.

		Program Committee.
			Lecture 1.
		Children God’s Best Heritage.
	(a) Illustrate from the lives of Sarah,
Rebecca and Rachel.
	(b) Their great desire for children.
	(c) Posterity—Abraham’s reward for
his faithfulness.
	(d) Marriage should be between people
of the same faith.
	(e) Give Bible references. Isaac and
Jacob.

			Lecture 2.
			Moses.
	(a) His birth. Pharaoh’s cruelty in
destroying Israelitish children.

[Column 3]
	(b) God’s preservation of Moses through
the agency of his mother, sister and
Pharaoh’s daughter.
	(c) Barbarous destruction of children at
the birth of Christ and of Moses.
	(d) Compare with prenatal destruction
of children at present time.

			Lecture 3.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) Egyptian civilization and the splen-
did education of Moses.
	(b) His discipline in the wilderness as
a preparation for his future work.
	(c) His call to be leader of Israel.
	(d) The laws of today—the outgrowth
of the laws of Moses.

			Lecture 4.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) The Ten Commandments.
	(b) Treat each one separately, making
application to our daily life.

			Lecture 5.
		Moses (continued)
Sanitation, Hygiene and Foods of Mosaic
			Laws.
	(a) Read Leviticus chap. XI.
	(b) Talk on Hygiene, selection of prop-
er food and good cooking.
	(c) Read Leviticus, Chap. XIV, and
note the care taken to prevent the spread
of leprosy.
	(d) Talk on sanitation and the preven-
tion of contagious diseases.

			Lecture 6.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) Read the song of Moses Ex. Chap.
XV.
	(b) Read Ex. Chap. XVI, the Lord
provides quails and manna for the chil-
dren of Israel.
	(c) Compare with the miraculous pres-
ervation of the Saints on their journey
across the plains and in the early days of
Utah.
	(d) Incidents of the quails, gulls and
crickets.
	(e) Relate other incidents of a miracu-
lous nature.
	Program Committee.
					S. E. Stewart,
					M. C. Roberts,
					E. S. Wilcox.
			M. A. ROMNEY, Pres’t.
			A. K. HARDY, Sec’y,


ERRATA.
	In the January number of the paper an
error occurs in the poem "No Farewell,"
by Lydia D. Alder, in the fourth verse,
the last word of the last line should read,
"interwove," instead of interwoven; and
in the second line of the first, the little
word "to" alters the meaning; the line
should read: "To go means but return
some other day. And in the poem "to-
day," in the February number of the paper, in the second line of the second
verse the word "tug" instead of "try."
"None ever reach it; try as they may."
It is very trying for the poet and we are very sorry errors should occur.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE BIRTH OF A CENTURY.
The clanging bells tolling the midnight hour.
The hands on the dial, in the old church tower,
Moving with measured time.
In silent prayers with hearts bowed down,
The dying year receives the crown;
Well done, thou faithful child.
But hark! the chimes all trembling tell
A new born year, and all is well.
With hope and faith we welcome thee,
Oh, bring us love, content and peace;
In thee all bloody wars shall cease,
The human race exalted be.
Louise Coulson.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


TWO MOTHERS.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.
		(Mother of Jesus.)
Oh, Mary, thy name is exalted!
	Great was thy mission on earth,
Thou didst not mother the race of kings,
	But gavest the Savior birth.

That tiny baby in the manger low,
	The man who was wise and good,
Was he but to thee thy first born son,
	’Til ’neath the cruel cro[-]s thou stood?

Ah, then didst think on that holy birth?
	Thy mother’s heart with anguish rent—
Didst think as darkness covered earth,
	That the boy tho’ thine was heaven sent?

*		*		*		*		*		*

		(Mother of Judas.)
And thou, forgotten and nameless one!
	To thee also, the mother’s crown was given,
Thou loved into life a wayward son,
	Now outcast from earth and from heaven.

When thou didst return from the “Valley of
		Death,”
	With a heart filled with exquisite joy,
Didst thou in thankfulness glorify God
	As thou clasped in rapture the boy?

And when the wee one to manhood had grown
	With heart harden’d ’gainst counsel and love,
Did the heart of a mother cling to him still
	And plead for grace from above?

Thou didst mother a traitor and coward, I ween,
	Bringing sorrow and shame unto thee.
But thou couldst not forget that he slept on thy
		breast,
	Thou couldst not forget that he played at thy
		knee.

Oh, thou, and not Mary, was “Mother of
		sorrows.”
	Didst feel in thy heart thou wert crucified too?
Oh, Great God of Heaven; Thy children do
		thank Thee,
	For the gift of the “mother heart,” steadfast
		and true.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL MEETINGS.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer spoke on Miss
Anthony during the services of Temple
Adath Israel in Boston on March 24. He
said in part:
	"In the last analysis, as in the first, wo-
man's rights are human rights. Indeed,
the interests of each are the concern of
all. No one of us is really free while slav-
ery exists anywhere. No one of us has
justice while injustice claims its victims.
No one is safe while tyranny holds sway
over another.
	For Miss Anthony equal suffrage, though
a necessary achievement, was only a sym-
bol of the status of women in society on
a plane and upon a par with men. I am


[Column 2]
convinced that if I reach Miss Anthony's
age I shall witness the complete fulfill-
ment of her hopes in this regard, and thus
behold the human race, in America at
least, take another long stride forward."
	The Maine and Portland Woman Suf-
frage Associations, State and local, united
in a memorial service in the Chestnut St.
Church. Miss Bertha King sang "Cross-
ing the Bar," and the audience the "Bat-
tle Hymn of the Republic." Rev. Dr.
Magruder offered prayer, and Rev. Dr.
Henry Blanchard gave the eulogy. He
said of Miss Anthony, in part:
	"Her courage was conspicuous - physical
and moral. She was not frightened "by
so slight a thing as a cyclone." Her con-
stancy was never shaken. Beaten in her
efforts before Congress, she planned a
new campaign as she came down the steps
of the Capitol at midnight. "Were you
never discouraged?" said one. "Never
I knew that my cause was just, and I was
always in good company."
	Her consecration was apparent. Some
thought she did not believe enough in
God. She was more ethical than pious.
A woman complained to a friend because
Miss Willard praised Miss Anthony. She
thought it wrong, because Miss Anthony
did not sufficiently recognize God. "I do
not know about that." said the friend,"but I do know that God had recognized,
her and her work for the last 30 years."
	The Shakers of Mount Lebanon, N. Y.,
held a memorial service in memory of
"Saint Susan," as Elder Daniel Offord
calls her. There was a large attendance
from the Shaker Village, and the neigh-
boring villages of New Lebanon and Leb-
anon Springs. Sister Amanda Deyo made
the principal address. The account in
the Springfield Republican was road by
one of the brothers. Eldress Anna White
gave personal recollections of Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, whose visit many years
ago to the Mount Lebanon Community is
still recalled with great interest, and gave
the impression made on her own mind
when, at the age of thirteen, she witnessed
the silencing of Lucretia Mott in a Quaker
meeting, because of her too advanced
thought. An extract from the tribute to
Susan B. Anthony by the President of
Bryn Mawr College, from the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL, was much appreciated. A num-
ber of short speeches were made by broth-
ers and sisters of the Order, and Elder
Ernest Pick said that in such a life and
character as that of Susan B. Anthony, he
recognized one of the saviors of the world.
Sister Amanda Deyo and Sister Catherine
Allen emphasized the Shaker belief that
the wider recognition of the law of equity
by which women are coming to their
birthright is due to the growing sense of
the true Father-Mother Spirit, the Cre-
ative Being. Sister Amanda ascribed to
Ann Lee the honorable place of leader in
the movement for woman's freedom.
	The P. E. Club of Manlius N. Y., held
a memorial meeting at the home of the
president, Mrs. Christina M. Sinnamon,
at the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral.
Mrs. Sinnamon writes that, despite pro-
found sadness, they were "grateful for
what the long and active life of Susan B.
Anthony has accomplished to make wo-
man's life more useful and enjoyable."
	At the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral,

[Column 3]
a memorial meeting was held in the Uni-
tarian church of Ithaca, N. Y. The pas-
tor, Rev. Cyrus W. Heizer, gave an ad-
dress on "Miss Anthony and Her Work."
Mr. Ducan Campbell Lee, editor of the
Daily News, spoke on "What Women
Can Do," and there were papers by sev-
eral members of the P. E. Club.
	The Civic Club of Lyons, N. Y., was
preparing to hold a celebration on March
13 in honor of Miss Anthony's birthday,
It was changed to a memorial service. A
fine portrait of Miss Anthony, draped not
in black but in white, stood on the table,
and another, draped in purple, hung on
the wall. The president, Mrs. Isabel C. Bar-
rows, who gave probably the first of the
vast number of memorial addresses that
have been delivered all over the country.
She urged the women present to make
work for Oregon their memorial to Miss
Anthony, and they voted a contribution
to the Oregon campaign. Rev. W. N.
Webb pronounced a eulogy, and there
was fine music.
	Hon. Samuel J. Barrow. National Pris-
on Commissioner, writes: "When I go to
Albany I shall go and look at her bust chis-
elled in stone at the Capitol. That is
one tribute which the Legislature of New
York paid to her; but how far it falls
short of what they might have done by
admitting her to their councils! But
some day women will be sitting at the
desks in the house, just as now by cour-
tesy they are allowed to sit inside the
rail."
	Woman's Journal.


MISS ANTHONY AT HOME.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper writes in a syndicate
article:
	“Miss Anthony spent so large a part of
her life in public that the world seldom
thought of her in the retirement of home,
and yet this was the place she loved above
all others, and to whieh her heart con-
stantly turned. The Rochester home,
which has belonged to the family for over
forty years, is situated in a pleasant,
shaded street, a two-and-a-half story
brick house of thirteen rooms, with all
the modern conveniences. It is very
comfortably furnished, and its exquisite
neatness and cleanliness diffuse that at-
mosphere which one always associates
with the Friends or Quakers. The pieces
of old mahogany were a part of the moth-
er’s wedding outfit ninety years ago, and
the guest would sip her tea from the
mother’s delicate china cups with the thin
silver spoons which were a part of the
grandmother’s dowry in the century be-
fore the last. If the guest were worthy
of the highest honor, she would sleep
under a bedspread of the mother’s weav-
ing for her marriage chest, and, oh, the
exquisite touch with which Miss Anthony
smoothed out every tiny wrinkle! The
sheets were taken from a drawer where
she had laid them with sprigs of laven-
der, and every detail was looked after
with the careful attention of the old-time
housekeeper. The writer of this has often
said that Miss Anthony never suggested
ways for repairing the damages of society
with half the skill she employed in teach-
ing her nieces her wonderful method of
darning rents in garments and household
linen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		MARCH, 1906


[Column 1]
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	A FRIEND TO HUMANITY.
	Too much cannot be said or done to
emphasize the great work and worth of
Miss Anthony, whose passing away has
left a void no other woman can quite
fill; her magnificent ideas of equal privi-
leges touched every heart that beats with
genuine love for mankind. It is impossi-
ble for us to write satisfactorily upon such
a theme as her life presents. Miss An-
thony’s personality pervaded the atmos-
phere of every room she entered; her
queenly manner and the majesty of her
presence would adorn any station in life,
even had she been elected President of
the United States. But though she only
sought for equal privileges with the oppo-
site sex in the State and at the ballot
box, that small boon was withheld.
	Through her own active exertions
coupled with her great love for humanity
and personal influence, she created for
herself without wealth or titles a national
and international reputation for wisdom
and knowledge of affairs that gave her the
entre into the best society throughout the
United States and the countries she vis-
ited. Her own great soul dominated
without any assumption of power, and
those around her realized she was a born
leader, and became her loyal adherents
to follow her lead.
	At the present time we cannot really
estimate her loss, nor can we do justice to
her many admirable qualities; nor relate
her remarkable adventures and stories of
travel, we can only write a few words as
a loving tribute to her memory and leave
the matter to come up later, when there
has been time to tell the narrative of her
life-work more fittingly than a brief no-
tice hastily written.
	We mourn for her with her many
friends, and we also rejoice in the great
work she accomplished. One writer said
of her most truly, “She has lived a thou-
sand years, if achievement can measure
the length of life.”
	Memorial services were held as a trib-
ute to Miss Susan B. Anthony in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, on the Temple
block in this city, on Saturday morning,
March 18, 1906, President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. The hall was appropri-
ately decorated with Stars and Stripes,
palms and flowers. The services were
deeply impressive; the congregation sang
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s glorious words,

[Column 2]
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” and
prayer was offered by Hon. John T. Caine,
a personal friend of Miss Anthony. The
hymn, “Lead Kindly Light,” sung by
Miss Judith Anderson, Miss Mattie Read
accompanying on the organ, was one of
Miss Anthony’s favorite selections.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made in
her most gracious way a brief but fervent
opening speech.
	Resolutions from the Utah Woman’s
Council were read by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
and afterwards unanimously adopted.
	At a meeting of the State Council of
Women, held at Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, March 17, 1906, the following pre-
amble and resolutions were unanimously 
adopted:

	Whereas, we have learned with deep
regret of the death of Susan B. An[-]hony,
that noble and self-sacrificing woman, and
able and devoted advocate of equal rights
for all. And,
	Whereas, her whole life has been spent
in espousing the cause of humanity, and,
in endeavoring to place woman on the
same plane with man; therefore, be it
	Resolved, that in her death the women
of Utah, the United States and the world,
lose their dearest and best friend, and
most consistent exponent of woman suf-
frage, and be it further
	Resolved, that we tender our heart-
felt sympathy to her loved ones in this
hour of their sadness and affliction, and
that her memory be revered as a sacred
inheritance, and an incentive to every-
thing that is ennobling and uplifting, and
that it may live in the world<h>s archives
with those who have left the world
better for having lived in it. And also
be it
	Resolved, that the above preamble and
resolutions be spread on the minutes of
the State Council of Women of Utah,
and be published in the Salt Lake jour-
nals, and a copy thereof be transmitted
to the president of the Woman’s National
Suffrage Association,
	EMILY S. RICHARDS, President.
	ELIZABETH M. COHEN, Secretary.
	Resolutions of Y. L. N. M. I. A. read
by Miss Ann M. Cannon:
	Whereas, the members of this associ-
ation do feel a personal loss in the death
of humanity’s uncrowned queen, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, and,
	Whereas, the beauty and glory of her
life have become a part of the heritage
of the ages; and through that life every
woman’s intelligence and freedom have
been augmented in an incalculable de-
gree; and therefore, every man born of
woman has had his own horizon enlarged,
his possibilities increased, and his charac-
ter ennobled; and,
	Whereas, her Christ-like, unselfish de-
votion to life’s highest ideals, and her ac-
curate appreciation of justice, which
never steeled her heart to the pleadings
of mercy, have set a goodly pattern for
us to follow; and,
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and
beautiful as was her living;
	Now, therefore, be it resolved, that we,
the members of this association, do con-
secrate one hallowed niche in each indi-
vidual memory wherein to place the life-
work of Susan B. Anthony, the supreme
leader of womankind in modern historic-
al times; and that we will endeavor to

[Column 3]
let her pure life-passion so enrich our
own souls that wherever her spirit may
be hidden in the bosom of eternity, she
shall be filled with some measure of di-
vine joy that we do remember, and that
we do progress because of her life and its
labors.
	Our hearts are lifted, therefore, in one
united hymn of praise and joy, and we
offer our pleading petition to that God
who doth judge the quick and dead, that
in the heavenly home to which some day
we shall all go, we may be permitted to
mingle and labor in the eternal verities
over there, side by side with Susan B.
Anthony.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES,
		ANN M. CANNON,
			Committee.
	The speakers, who paid glowing trib-
utes to Miss Anthony at this meeting, were
Mesdames Emily S. Richards, Susa
Young Gates and Alice Merrill Horne.
Miss Judith Anderson rendered a solo,
“O Dry Those Tears.” it was very sweetly
sung. Hon. John T. Caine was the next
speaker, followed by George D. Pyper,
who sang in his best style, “O My
Father,” a favorite hymn.
	Mesdames Ida Smoot Dusenberry,
Sarah Jennie Cannon, Minnie J. Snow
and Emmeline B. Wells each poke
feelingly and effectively of their love,
veneration and appreciation of this
remarkable woman.
	The services closed with singing Dox-
ology and prayer by President Martha
Horne Tingey of the Y. L. N. M. I. A.


THE LION HOUSE PARTY.
	Col. Willard Young, Master of Cere-
monies, introduced the speakers, making
suggestive explanatory remarks.
	We of the early days in the valley,
have many tender recollections of the
Lion House. The name is significant in
the history of Salt Lake City, and it
means much of sentiment and veneration
to some of us who were familiar with the
house and its former occupants. What
memories it awakens to go inside its
walls or even to gaze upon the outside.
Built firm, strong and substantial, may it
ever be preserved. Great men and wo-
men have been sheltered there, and chil-
dren who have achieved greatness have
been born there. The greatest and grand-
est men of their time have prayed and
sung and feasted within its sacred pre-
cincts,. and great truths have been given
to the world from the owner of that
stately mansion and from his associates.
	Sitting in the Lion House parlor one
can recall varied scenes of the past, and
one becomes visionary, for the faces and
forms of long ago come back as it were,
and stand in their accustomed places; and
though the room may be crowded, we see
not those that are there so well as we do
the ones who once filled these now vacant
halls. It reminds one of Moore:

	“I feel like one who treads alone
		Some banquet hall deserted,
	Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
		And all but me departed.”

Or like Longfellow:

	“This is the place	*	*
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past
		The forms that once have been.”

	There is no time nowadays to dream;


[Column 1]
the watchword of the hour is activity;
but at the party in the Lion House on
the 17th of March people were requested
to be reminiscent; those who spoke gave
many interesting incidents, and the rest
of us dreamed and saw visions. 
	The house was erected half a century
ago, and the young woman in whose
honor the party was given was born in it
half a century ago, and both are still in 
their prime and likely to last another
half century or more!
	There were a number of people there 
who had helped to erect the unique struc-
ture, and among them Bishop Romney,
Joshua Midgeley, William Foster, and
Hamilton G. Park. We had the pleasure
too of hearing the hostess, Susa Young
Gates, who told us about some of the 
stirring events that had transpired there
in her quaintly humorous style and Zina
Young Card was booked to tell of “Court-
ships in the Lion House,” so sorry we
could not have heard those pretty love
passages; however, Bishop Whitney re-
lated his boyish pranks, which were al-
most as good as love stories, delightfully
interesting for past history. William Fos-
ter sang “Hard Times Come Again No
More,” and all joined in the chorus, and
there were a number of songs and some
hymns.
	President Joseph F. Smith gave recol-
lections of his youthful days in the valley
and of his Echo Canon experience un-
der Porter Rockwell, whose very name is
always a reminder of funny things, and
daring deeds, and the President also re-
lated their triumphal return home when
Johnston’s army passed through on their
way to Camp Floyd, which was very en-
tertaining.
	Beisdes speeches, songs, conversation
and music, there was a surprise for the 
honored lady of the Lion House—a box
presented by Miss Babcock from the
General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. with
a strict injunction not to to open it until
midnight, possibly as the 18th, and not
the 17th of March, was the day on which
Mrs. Gates came into the Lion House
first. It would be impossible to give you
any idea of Miss Babcock’s speech on
paper, no pen could do it justice, but it
was sufficient for the occasion, and the 
applause was great.
	Besides all this, the guests were treated
to delicious refreshments and invited into
the Hall of Relics, where there were many
old-fashioned curiosities. In another
room there was a fish pond, and every-
body caught something, useful or funny.
Altogether the party was an immense
success, to see so many old friends
of other days together is very grati-
fying, and so many of the family of
the great, good and wise man, who
had dwelt there and raised his chil-
dren in loving tenderness, surrounded by
his numerous family and friends, by 
whom he was honored, admired and be-
loved; and his memory is hallowed and
sacredly enshrined in the hearts of the
people for whom he strove and planned
and wrought, and with his fellow laborers
founded this Territory and made it habit-
able and beautiful. Honor is due Brig-
ham Young and his famous band of pion-
eers and associates, from all who settle
in these mountain vales. They are the
men who made it possible to dwell here
in peace and security. Congratulations to
Sister Susa Young Gates on her fifty years

[Column 2]
young. Would we could write something
worthy of the unique occasion, but as
that is impossible, let us quote from
Longfellow:

“Vanish the dream! Vanish the idle fears!
	Vanish the rolling mists of fifty years!
	Whatever time or space may intervene,
	I will not be a stranger in this scene.
	Here every doubt, all indecision ends;
	Hail my companions, comrades, class mates,
	friends!

“Ah me! the fifty years since last we met
	Seem to me fifty folios bound and set
	By Time, the great transcriber, on his shelves,
	Wherein are written the histories of ourselves.
	What tragedies, what comedies are there;
	What joy and grief, what rapture and despair!
	What chronicles of triumph and defeat,
	Of struggle and temptation and retreat!
	What records of regrets and doubts and fears;
	What pages blotted, blistered by our tears!
	What sweet, angelic faces; what divine
	And lovely images of love and trust,
	Undimmed by age, unsoiled by damp and dust!

“Whose hand shall dare to open and explore
	These volumes closed and clasped forevermore?
	Not mine, with reverential feet I pass;
	I hear a voice that cries ‘Alas! Alas!
	Whatever has been written shall remain,
	Nor be erased nor written o’er again
	The unwritten only still belongs to thee—
	Take heed and ponder well what that shall
		be.’ ”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A HAPPY SOCIAL EVENT.

	The President, General Board, and
missionaries of the Relief Society gave a
party on Wednesday, February 28, in
honor of the Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells
at the home of her daughter Annie Wells
Cannon at Cannon Farm. The day was
very stormy but nevertheless a large num-
ber of the guests brayed the stormy wind
and weather, and celebrated the occasion
in a highly intellectual and spiritual
feast of good things, not forgetting the
dainty refreshments, flowers, music, songs
and poems.
	The presence of President Francis M.
Lyman, Apostle Charles W. Penrose,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, and Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon was very much appre-
ciated, and it was very gratifying to the
ladies who had charge of the affair to be
thus honored and to hear their words of
commendation and encouragement to the
sisters who are engaged in the noble work
of benevolence and blessing, and devoting
time and talents to the uplifting of human-
ity and the spread of truth.
	There were many precious gifts of var-
ious kinds from friends beloved, and it is
surely fitting to acknowledge with deep-
est gratitude from a heart overflowing
with love, the intense desire to become
more worthy of the honor bestowed by
such an ovation from dear relatives and
friends, who came with glad hearts and
cheering words on that day of days now
never to be forgotten by the recipient of
all this loving kindness.
	The magnificent bouquet of white car-
nations, seventy-eight in number, with a
beautiful white rose in the centre, pre-
sented by the First Presidency came in
the midst of the severe storm raging with-
out, calling to mind the tender thought-
fulness of these busy men (who could not
attend,) and bringing as it were not only
the delicate fragrance of these dainty
blossoms, but the magic charm that no
words can express, that touches the
depths of the human soul.
	It is sometimes good to pause in the

[Column 2]
hurry and bustle of life and consider one's
attitude towards those with whom one
mingles from day to day. The social
phase of human life is worthy of some
attention more than mere handshaking
and formal expressions of “How do you
do?” and “Good-bye,” and no doubt it is
beneficial to cultivate social qualities and
amenities, and would make our workaday
world more optimistic.
	The goodly company assembled on the
day heretofore mentioned did themselves
proud by their careful management of the
program of music, songs, hymns and
speeches, as well as the delicious menu
served by sweet girls in the daintiest
fashion. Original poems by Lula Greene
Richards, Lydia D. Alder and Ruth M.
Fox, written for the occasion, were inter-
spersed and appreciated and, a sort of
humorous mock trial scene, improvised
by one of the ladies to create a little mer-
riment was given with judge, jury and de-
fendant, and the calling of the court to
order with much noisy blowing of horns,
etc.
	Also for diversion a little Miss disguised
as a gipsy sat demurely in a corner to tell
fortunes, that each one drew out of a
basket filled with slips of paper on which
one's fortune was supposed to be writ-
ten.
	There were kind words and short
speeches by some of the ladies, among
them our honored Elect Lady, Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, whose life-long experi-
ence is replete with telling incidents, and
when given in her inimitable style fall on
her listeners as gently as the summer
rain on the drooping flowers, gladdening
the heart, and revivifying and invigor-
ating the soul, awakening desires to fol-
low in her footsteps, and go and do like-
wise.
	Though the storm still raged when the
guests departed, yet they sang hymns
while waiting outside for the car, a pretty
good proof of the joyous day.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

				MORGAN STAKE.

	The Morgan Stake Relief Society held
its quarterly conference February 17,
1906, Pres. Lydia Rich presiding. Her
counselors and the President of the stake
with quite a number of others of the 
Priesthood were on the stand, and a fair-
ly good attendance of the sisters were
present.
	The reports from the different branches
showed some improvement, and a good
spirit was manifest. We were not 
favored with speakers from the General
Board, but we had some good testimon-
ies and timely remarks were made by a 
number of the sisters, also some of the 
brethren.
	Sister Martha Tonks, first counselor to 
President Rich, handed in her resigna-
tion, on account of her ill health, feeling
that she was incapable of attending to
the duties of the office, also Sister Ann
Fry as Stake Treasurer handed her res-
ignation for the same reason.
	They were accepted and given an hon-
orable release and a vote of thanks for
their faithful labors, giving assurance
that they would still remain faithful to
the cause of Society work. The vacan-


[Column 1]
cies will be filled at our coming quarterly
stake conference on the 25th of March, or
so President Lydia Rich announced in
our stake and local officers meeting last
Saturday. These officers meetings are
held regularly once a month, and we are
trying to keep the Relief Society work
alive and thriving in our stake.
	The health of the people is pretty 
good. We have had a long and quite
cold winter, but the snow is nearly all
gone and we shall perhaps soon have
spring.
	ANNIE W. CLARK, Secretary.

		NEBO STAKE.

	Quarterly Conference of the Nebo Stake
Relief Society, held in the Santaquin
meetinghouse. Stake President Eliza
J. Dixon, presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Dixon said she was pleased to meet with
the people of Santaquin, and very thank-
ful for every blessing we are enjoying.
But we could not do too much as mothers
in Israel in carrying on the work of the
Lord, that we should encourage one an-
other in the different organizations of the
Church in good works. Mothers should 
encourage the youth of Zion in attending
their meetings, and asked for the spirit
of God to be with us during the confer-
ence.
	Sister Wall, President of Santaquin Re-
lief Society, bid the sisters all welcome.
Bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; prayed that all the young people
might seek for and obtain their testimony,
and reported Santaquin ward all well.
	A beautiful musical selection was given
by Ethel Tietjen.
	Sister Melissa Boyer reported Silver
ward in good condition, although a small
ward and constantly changing. Sister
Emma Jenkins reported Goshen organ-
ization complete and in good condition.
Sister Josephine Bennett reported Spring
Lake ward. Sisters were united and a 
good spirit prevailed.
	Song---"Maid of Athens," was beauti-
fully given by Christina Mace.
	Sister Clara Evans felt joy in meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of our temporal
and spiritual work; that it should move
along together. Read and explained the
meaning of theology.
	Sister Hannah Holliday recited a poem
entitled "Our Mission."
	The choir sang, and benediction was
offered.
	Afternoon session.---Conference met at
2 p. m., and the usual exercises were
given. Sister Pearce of Salem spoke of
the powers of the Priesthood and of wo-
men's work in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Mace and Olsen favored us with
a duet, "Life's Merry Morning."
	Sister Martha Kappel spoke on the 
Word of Wisdom. Exhorted sisters to
keep the Word of Wisdom and set a
proper example to their children and we
could then claim the blessings and hid-
den knowledge would be given unto us.
	Brother John Holliday said he had been
greatly interested in the remarks of the
sisters, and gave some good advice.
	Recitation by Elizabeth Openshaw.
	Brother German Elsworth spoke for a
few minutes. Sister Bertha Nelson re-
cited, "A Mortgage on the Farm."
	Sister Eliza Dixon felt well pleased
with the remarks that had been made and

[Column 2]
the good feeling that prevailed. Thanked
the people of Santaquin for what they
had done to make the conference a suc-
cess. Choir sang. Benediction by
Brother Butler.
		ALTA M. TOWNSEND, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held in Science Hall,
American Fork, January 12, 1906. Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring wished all a happy and pros-
perous New Year. Hoped our love and
confidence would increase and that our
work would be onward. Reported that
all the wards had been visited during the
past quarter. We can learn everything
in the Society that will tend to elevate
us; we should be good wives and moth-
ers, good citizens and good members of
societv. The Savior said that the time
would come when the children of the
kingdom would be cast out while strang-
ers would take their places. Prayed for
the eyes of the parents to be opened to
teach the children the way of eternal
life.
	All the wards in the stake were repre-
sented except one; the presidents re-
ported a good condition, the sisters hold
regular meetings, and love and unity pre-
vails; they are caring for the poor and
sick and have gathered a good amount of
grain, and nearly all own their own
granaries. Also have Mother's lessons
and enjoy them.
	Stake President Stephen S. Chipman
was pleased to hear that the wards have
means to bless the poor and needy during
this cold weather. The tithes and offer-
ings have been more the past year than
the year previous. Urged the mothers to
use their best efforts to keep their boys
in purity and cleanliness of spirit.
	President James H. Clark said: The 
mothers all desire the welfare of their
boys and girls. Our children should be
taught that they are partly responsible
for their actions and habits, and instead
of spending all their means in frivolity
they should pay a little tithing and begin 
to realize that something is depending on
them and they must do their part, Our
sisters offer their prayers to God and it is
necessary that the children do their part
and also pray in the family, children will
be governed in a measure by the spirit of
prayer. If we make a mistake we must
repent of it and our children must do the
same. Adjourned after singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session.---Meeting recon-
vened at 2 o'clock, and opened with the
usual exercises. Stake Counselor Harriet
Jacobs spoke to the mothers on the care
and training of their children, urged them
to call the family together in the ab-
sence of the husband and have them take
part in family prayer. Said there was
nothing that would do our children more
good than to have them go on a mission.
Was thankful the Lord had blest our
President, that she had been given wis-
dom, streugth and ability to successfully
take the management and responsibility
of this society.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt
that our labor could not be performed by
anyone else, it is our labor and our work.
Believed the Prophet Joseph Smith re-

[Column 3]
alized the great responsibility that would
rest on the sisters in the work of this so-
ciety. We should feel that God recog-
nizes us, and that He accepts our labors.
We should be ever ready to say, "Father,
thy will be done." We must encourage 
our sons and daughters to take missions,
for we know not the importance of the
missionary work in the world. The Lord
will bless and comfort His daughters while
their husbands and sons are away on mis-
sions. We all make mistakes but the
Lord is merciful to our weaknesses.
Prayed the Lord to bless Sister Stand-
ring and preserve her long on the earth.
	Stake Missionary Emily H. Bullock felt 
there is room for all to improve. Urged
the sisters to take care of their children
and keep them off the street at night.
We have had a good day today and have
been blest and paid for coming together.
Prayed for a blessing on Sister Standring
and on all the sisters.
	President Standring was pleased with
the reports given and also with the spirit
of the meeting. Urged the sisters to buy
wheat with the money collected for that 
purpose as soon as possible and not keep
cash on hand. Felt to thank God that
she had been called to preside over this
stake of Zion, for she knew that it was
the will of the Lord. May the spirit of
this conference go with us and abide with
us each and all.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 36thRelief Society con
ference of Uintah stake of Zion, held at
Mt. Dell, November 23, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah A. Colton presiding. Sing-
ing, "Great God attend while Zion sings."
Opening prayer, Sister Nancy A. Colton.
Singing' "How firm a foundation." Roll
called, Minutes read and accepted.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton reported the
stake in fair condition; also gave the sis-
ters a great deal of encouragement, and
spoke of forgiveness.
	President Colton felt well in meeting
with the sisters of Mt. Dell; thought we
should live so that we could be  sisters in
very deed. Related some of the counsel
given at the lateGeneral Conference held
in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Mary J. Searle of Mt. Dell so-
ciety. reported the sisters doing as well
as they could under the circumstances.
Sister Annie Casper of Naples ward soci-
ety reported that society as getting along
quite well---felt like giving her teachers a
word of praise. Sister Hannah Odekirk
reported the Vernal society as getting
along quite well;felt well in meeting with
the sisters of Mt. Dell; had lived in the 
county for 20 years,and had never visited
Mt. Dell before.
	An essay from Jensen ward society was
read by the secretary, Phebe A. Merkley,
also a report, it being too far for those
sisters to travel to conference. Sister A. 
K. Bartlett spoke of the Savior and the
records that we have to guide our foot-
steps; referred to the 14th chapter of
Revelations and bore her testimony.
	Brother Mathias Caldwell, who was 
quite feeble, said he did not have the
privilege of going to meeting very often;
felt to bless the sisters for holding con-
ference in that ward; he was quite an
old timer; he related some of the perse-


[Column 1]
cutions in Missouri and Nauvoo; he had
alway been a pioneer, and was a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing and
benediction. Conference adjourned until
1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session. After the usual ex-
ercises, the general and stake officers
were sustained. Sister Mary B. Henry
was sustained as assistant secretary and
treasurer by vote.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
wards society as being in fair condition.
	An essay by Sister Mary B. Henry of
Vernal ward society, was read—“Neglect
of duty.”
	Song from Mt. Dell.
	Sister Rhoda Goodrich spoke of the
different organizations of the Church;
urged the mothers to see that their boys
attend Deacon’s meeting; she also re-
ferred to the Church schools; advised all
to uphold those placed over them.
	Brother John N. Davis spoke of the
duties of a mother toward her children;
felt like assisting the Relief Society as
much as he could.
	Sister Olive Bingham said it was like
being back home to meet with the sisters
of Mt. Dell; she had lived among them
so long, been some time since she moved
away; she always felt well in laboring
with the sisters of the Relief Society and
doing all the good she could.
	Song from Vernal.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett made a few re-
marks in regard to the duties of the sis-
ters.
	President Colton thanked the sisters
of Mt. Dell for their hospitality; thought
that by taking the conferences to the
different wards it would be a benefit to
those that are not able to attend when it
was held at one place.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for
three months, to be held in Vernal. Ben-
ediction by A. K. Bartlett. 
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secy. 

		NORTH SANPETE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake, held in Mt. Pleasant
Sept. 5, 1905, Pres. Williamina H. Erick-
sen presiding. After the usual exercises,
opening remarks were made by President
Williamina Ericksen.
	President Levee Stewart of Milburn was
the first to report her ward. Said they
had not been able to hold their meetings
regularly. Some of their number having
moved away and others being unable to
attend their numbers were low. Hoped
to be able to do better, but they had made
a quilt. In the absence of the president
of the Fairview society, Sister Terry re-
ported it. Said they had a good attend-
ance, especially in their testimony meet-
ings. Have 4 quilts and 2300 bushels of
wheat on hand, besides other things in
the treasury. 
	President Anna M. Hardy of Moroni
said they had interesting meetings. Had
completed their building and were very
proud of it. Held a bazar and raised
some money. Have sheep, and shares in
the store from which they derive a divi-
dend. Teachers report the sick and
needy.
	President Mary Guymon, Fountain
Green, said in her ward, the president,
officers and teachers work unitedly in the
interest of the Relief Society. The
young mothers are becoming interested

[Column 2]
in the Mothers’ Work; usually make 5 or
6 quilts for winter for the poor, and ex-
pect to do so again. President Frieda
Edmunds of Wales said they helped the
missionaries and the sick by means of
socials. Had gathered considerable
money in that way. There had been a 
great deal of sickness and for that reason
they had been obliged to discontinue
their meetings. Believed that trials and
sickness draw us closer to our Heavenly
Father, and bore her testimony to the
goodness of the Lord, although she had
been sorely afflicted, having lost a beau-
tiful babe, and another child had his leg
broken. President Lovina Allred of
Chester said their meeting-house was
being repaired and they had met in pri-
vate houses for work meetings. Had
donated $12 for their meeting-house and
had also made carpet for it, so that in the
future they will have a comfortable place
in which to meet. 
	Song by Sina Clark.
	President Mary E. Simmonsen of
Freedom said they held work meetings
which were better attended than their 
regular testimony meetings. Have money
with which to buy wheat when they get
a place to put it; had passed through 
many trials, having lost three children in
one week.
	Sister Clarissa Williams (Treasurer of
the General Society) was more than
pleased to meet with the Relief Society 
sisters. Had begun in this work early.
Was appointed a teacher at 18, next be-
came secretary, and afterward, president
of the ward, then treasurer of the Gener-
al Society, and now president of the Salt
Lake Stake.
	Encouraged work meetings in private
houses. Said mothers’ meeting should
be combined with testimony meeting; had
listened with pleasure to the reports. It
is commendable the way the sisters assist
the brethren in building, carpeting, and
furnishing the ward houses.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker was very much
pleased to be present in conference.
Said throughout Salt Lake Stake, Ward
Relief Society conferences are held annu-
ally to bring the work before the people
of the respective wards. Felt to con-
gratulate the people here on their pleas-
ant surroundings.
	Singing and benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	General and Stake officers were unani-
mously sustained. Statistical and finan-
cial report of the past year was read.
President Ellen Tullgren of Spring City
thought they had a good organization in
her ward. The ward is building a new
meeting-house and the sisters have con-
tributed one thousand dollars since the
building was commenced.
	Sister Simpson of Mt. Pleasant South
Ward reported their society in the ab-
sence of the president. Was sorry the 
president, Sister Morrison was too feeble
to be present, but hoped the Lord would 
bless and strengthen her. Had sold
their wheat; had plenty in the treasury
for the poor and tried to look after their
wants. Counselor Nielson of the Mount 
Pleasant North Ward said their meetings
were quite well attended and their treas-
ury well filled. Their wheat in connec-
ion with that of the South Ward had
been sold and had not been replaced on

[Column 3]
account of not having any place to put it.
	Sister Jane Seely, one of the pioneers,
testified to seeing the prophet and had
passed through many of the persecutions
and mobbings of early days. Sister Mary
Wilcox, another pioneer, related her ex-
perience in crossing the plains. Had
driven an ox team all the way. Had been
in the mobbings but had been preserved.
Had raised a large family and had never
buried a child.
	A paper “Motherhood a Profession,”
from Spring City.
	Song by Beatrice Ericksen “Face to
Face.”
	Sister Harker hoped the Lord would
direct her remarks in the proper channel.
Explained what the sisters were trying to
do for girls who go to Salt Lake to ob-
tain employment, but hoped mothers
would not put all the responsibility upon 
them.
	Sister Clarissa Williams had been very
much interested  Hoped the young wo-
men would become more interested in
this work than they have been in the
past.
	Motherhood is the greatest gift that
can be bestowed upon woman. Keep
your girls home under your own influence.
	President C. N. Lund had been much
interested. Said he thought women had
the gift of reaching the heart of man
more than men had. The most impress-
ive speeches he had ever heard were from
women of the Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by Pres. Williamina
Ericksen.
	Song by the Glee Club.
	Benediction.
			Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY.
	On account of the Stake Conference
occurring on the 17th, our Local Presi-
dency deemed it best to have the annual
celebration of the Relief Society of Cedar
City, Utah, on the 15th of March, 1906.
A meeting was held in the afternoon and
a very interesting program was carried
out and enjoyed by an appreciative au-
dience. In the evening a dance inter-
spersed with songs, readings, etc., was en-
joyed by the brethren and sisters present.
Light refreshments were served and a
general handshake and good wishes were
exchanged. A good, sociable feeling
prevailed and the Relief Society party
was voted a good success.
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG.


ANNIVERSARY

	IOSEPA, SKULL VALLEY.
	The annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety was held at the residence of Sister
Ellen C. Cole, March 17, 1906, in mem-
ory of the first organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
President Pakekepa Kailikea with her
Counselors, Ellen Makaiau and Kalawai-
anna Kalua, presided.
	Meeting commenced by singing from
page 29 of the “Hoku Ao Nani.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Mary Mokuilima.
Continued by singing from page 33 “Hoku
Ao Nani,” Roll was called, minutes of
the meeting held March 17, 1905, were
read by the secretary and approved. No
program had been prepared, so the sis-


ters were requested to bear their testi-
mony. 
	Sister Ellen Makaiau made a few re-
marks concerning the first organization 
of the Relief Society, and urged the sis-
ters to be faithful.
	Sister Kalawaianui Kalau also spoke 
upon the same subject.
	Duet by Emily Mahoe and Mary Mokui-
lima, followed by Sister Cole, who spoke 
a short time on the life of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith and the early persecutions 
of the Saints; she also eulogized the life 
of our President Bathsheba W. Smith. 
	Prest. Pakekepa Kailikea was pleased 
with what had been said and spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters.
	Ellen Makaiau was appointed to repre-
sent the Society at the General Confer-
ence in Salt Lake April 5th. 
	The initiation fee was remitted by every
member of the Society.
	Meeting was closed by singing from 
page 31 “Hoku Ao Nani,” prayer by 
Ellen Makaiau. 
		ELLEN K. MAKAIAU, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
			MARY WALKER.
	Mary Walker, wife of George Walker, who died
June 20th, 1905, at Mendon, Cache County, Utah,
was born in England, September, 1813.
	Sister Walker was a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint, a faithful wife and loving mother; was
a counselor in Relief Society for some years, and
was always devoted to the cause of truth.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to remove our dear sister to a
higher sphere; therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter, a faithful counselor in the Relief Society for
some years, and that we desire to emulate her
worthy example.
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved daughters , and pray our Heavenly
Father to let the comforting influence of His Holy
Spirit rest upon them, that they may realize that
she is enjoying the rest of the faithful, and that she
will come forth in a glorious resurretion crowned
with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record; one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for pub-
lication.

		ELIZABETH A. WILLIE.
	Elizabeth A. Willie, wife of James G. Willie,
who died Jan 25th, 1906, at Mendon, Cache Coun-
ty, Utah, was born in New York, December 3rd,
1818.
	Sister Willie was a true Latter-day Saint, a
faithful wife and mother, devoted to her duties;
was President of the Relief Society at its organiz-
ation in the Mendon Ward, and remained in that
position for upwards of 20 years; her influence
was always felt for good in this benevolent work.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to remove our dear sister to
a higher sphere; therefore be it
Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter, a faithful worker in the cause of truth, and as
a faithful President in the Relief Society for
many years, and that we desire to emulate her
worthy example.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved sons and daughters, and pray our Heav-
enly Father to let the comforting influence of His

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Holy Spirit rest down upon them, that they may
realize that she is enjoying the rest of the faithful,
and that she will come forth in a glorious resur-
rection crowned with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record; one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.—Com.


OBITUARY.
		HARRIET STANIFORTH.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Harriet Staniforth, who departed this life at her
home in Farmington, Utah, Feb. 24th. 1906, after
a residence of forty years.
	She was in her 86th year, having acted as mid-
wife the greater part of her life; she was faith-
ful and true to any and all cal[-]s made of her; was
gentle and unassuming in her manner, and a spirit
of peace and comfort attended her ministrations
into every home; she never turned any one away,
no matter what their conditions, giving her ser-
vices free to widows, missionaries’ wives, and to
the families of those who were imprisoned for
“conscience sake;” she lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saint
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would be
hard to surpass; she endeared herself to the hearts
of the children as well as the parents.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we emulate her ex-
ample of love and unselfishness to her fellow
man, and that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be framed and hung upon the walls of the
Relief Society hall,	
					WEALTHY CLARK,
		Missionary in Davis Stake Relief Society.
					LOVISA A. SEARS,
					Secretary Farmington R, S.
		JANE COUSINS BIRKBECK.
	One after another those whose names were en-
rolled in the first organization of the Relief Society
in this place are called to the other side, where no
doubt they are still engaged in the good work.
Among the earliest promoters, none took greater
interest nor labored more faithfully in whatever
capacity she was called to than Sister Jane C.
Birkbeck, who laid down life’s burden at the ripe
age of eighty-three; fifty-two years of which time
were passed in Utah, having emigrated from her
native land with her husband in the year 1852,
moving to Cedar in the course of a year or two,
where they resided up to the time of their deaths,
Brother Birkbeck having preceded her about two
years.
	In Society work Sister Birkbeck filled the posi-
tion of counselor for a number of years. Upon
resigning that position she acted as teacher, which
office she sustained faithfully as long as her health
would permit. Always ready in tlmes of sickness
or distress to assist not alone by words but works
as well, thereby fulfilling the will of the Savior,
“Bear ye one another’s burdens.”
	Sister Birkbeck was Stake Treasurer of the Re-
lief Society from 1894 until the officers were
changed in 1902.
	Grandma Birkbeck, as we familiarly called her,
will live long in the memory of many of the peo-
ple of Cedar, not alone for her deeds of charity
and kindness, but the interest she took in the pro-
motion of amusements; being early associated
with the Home Dramatic Company, which in for-
mer days afforded a great deal of pleasure to the
community.
	Although having no family connections of her
own, she was lovingly cared for by her adopted
daughter, Mrs. Ella Mitchell, and many kind
friends during her sickness, which resulted in her
death on the 15th of November, 1905. 
	Her funeral, which took place on the 18th, was
held in the tabernacle, the interior of which was
draped in white, and many of her old friends were
present from other places to show their respect for
the one who had gone before.
								J. P. M.


RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN.
		(Concluded.)

	In this process and towards
this result, forward-looking men and
women both, all who seek the progress
of the race will co-operate. And this for
the double reason: that equal with man’s
a woman’s individuality being sacred, she
is entitled to fullest opportunity for self-
development and in the free use of her
powers; and, secondly, as the mother of
the race, the more the calibre of woman-
hood is improved the better the outlook,
through her for all the children of men.
	“It is idle, at this stage for sentimen-
talists to theorize about ‘woman’s sphere.’
From the standpoint of democracy, I
prophecy (and it is a prophecy which
every day is fulfilling) that woman’s
sphere and career will be wherever the
individual woman’s capacity and social
interest, her individual need and her so-
cial use prompt her to find them. Wom-
an’s sphere is the home? What becomes
of that generalization in the face of the
millions of women who are not home-
builders and who have proved their econ-
omic worth outside of the home? Her
sphere is partly there, as is man’s. Her
marital relationship need not absorb her
individuality any more than it does a
man’s. Anyhow, it does not. And plain-
ly it cannot in the case of the millions of
unmarried women who have attained eco-
nomic independence. But the marriage
relationship itself will be finer and social-
ly more valuable, when that is based—as,
in time, it must be—upon the democratic
principle of equivalence or equality of
husband and wife.
	“In the spirit of democracy, we may
not herd women and dogamatize about
them as a class apart. Democracy should
talk no more about sex than it does about
sect. In the light of democracy each hu-
man atom is a sacred individuality, which
is to get from and give to social organiz-
ation the utmost benefits of human asso-
ciation. Really, there is no such thing as
‘man’ or ‘woman’, but only individual men
and women, to be developed into fuller
and finer humanness through cooperation
in the various social groups known as 
home and shop and church and State and
what not. Thus each of these human
beings is to be fitted to contribute towards
advancing the day of completer democra-
cy, which in turn will mean always more
of justice and opportunity to each human
unit, whether male or female.—Woman’s
Journal,

