No Wonder We Love Him Edith Smith Elliott [Daughter of President George Albert Smith] am Member, Relief Society General Board HEN we contemplate the \¢ widespread meaning of the six-letter word father, we are somewhat astonished. Aside from the dictionary definition, its use has encompassed conditions, movements, and institutions. In feudal times the lords and barons had paternalistic authority over their vassals. Many religious groups use the word father for those who teach or counsel their members. The term founding fathers has been used for those whose contributions form the framework of institutions whether political, economic, or religious. We refer to George Washington as the "Father of our Country." We honor him for his foresight in establishing democratic principles that have lasted in our country since its infancy. 'Thomas Jefferson was the "Father of the Declaration of Independence," and James Madison the "Father of the United States Constitution." To the Negro, Abraham Lincoln is the "Father of Freedom." Simon Bolivar and Jose de San Martin were the "Revolutionary Fathers" of South America who were responsible for freeing their countries from Europe. Most political groups have a filial feeling toward their founders and organizers. | The different inventors are given the title of father of their invention. Examples are the Wright Brothers, fathers. Of the airplane; Alexander Graham Bell, father of the telePage 366 phone; and Eli Whitney, father of the cotton gin. Eminent scientists such as Pythagoras, Louis Pasteur, Einstein, and Lister, all bear the name of father of their particular contributions. As individuals, however, our first experience with the word father is a very personal one—our own dear father. For each of us he holds a very special place. 'To me my Father had all of the attributes that endear a father to his daughter. He fulfilled all of my expectations of fatherhood. We were not a large family. There were only three children. If each of us could write a biography of him separately, I am sure that the reader would be convinced that we all shared the same love and appreciation for him. As tiny children we looked upon him as our protector. He was tall in stature, confident, and forceful. We felt the safety of his being between us and any fear, harm, or danger. He lifted us into his arms at the approach of a barking dog. He barricaded us against crowds. He took us by the hand and led us safely through traffic and confusion. He carried us over the rough and rocky places. Walking by his side in the darkness of the night, we felt his strength and had faith in his decisions. All eerieness disappeared, and shadows were really only shadOWS. What a comfort it was to have NO WONDER WE LOVE HIM Father in the garden when the big boys passed by. Then they didn't stop to tease, shout, or threaten. The knowledge of being within ear or eyeshot of Father gave us a feeling of security and confidence in trying out new experiences. If Papa approved of our activities, we knew we could succeed. He never lost an opportunity to encourage us at least to try new and wholesome endeavors. He looked upon experience as a great teacher and taught us to profit by each. He forewarned us of hazardous activity, but would always help us out of our difficulties, even if we stubbornly persisted in finding out by the hard way that he was right. FE, continually counseled us about our behavior, emphasizing honesty and fairness. I remember one day when on my way home from my piano lesson, the streetcar conductor overlooked collecting my fare. This was before the days of dropping a coin into a box upon entry. Instead, the conductor used to come into the car, collect, and ring up the fares. Somehow he passed me by, and I reached my destination still holding my nickel in my hand, and frankly quite elated that I had made the trip free. I did not realize that I had done something wrong until I ran gleefully to Father to tell him about my good fortune. He listened to my story patiently. I was begining to think I was a great success. A point that I thought was so important was that I was sure that the conductor did not know I had not paid for the ride, and therefore all was well. When I had finished my tale, 367 Father said, "But, darling, even if the conductor doesn't know about this, you know and I know and your Heavenly Father knows. So, there are still three of us who must be satisfied in seeing that you pay in full for value received." That was all I needed. I stood out on the corner and waited for the return trip of the streetcar, explained my plight to the conductor, paid my fare, and learned a valuable lesson that I shall never forget. __ I am indeed thankful for a Father who was wise enough to kindly point out the error to me, because if it had been overlooked, I could have thought that he approved, and I might have tried something similar another time. Repetition of misdeeds tends to dull one's senses to wrongdoing and they can easily become a habit. Once the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked for his plan of government, his reply was, that he taught the people correct principles, and they governed themselves. Father chose to apply this same principle to the rearing of children. He believed that it is the responsibility of parents to outline a pattern of good conduct for their children, continually pointing out the benefits which come with disciplined deportment. He tried to teach us not to spend a lot of time grieving over our mistakes. He regarded it an unnecessary waste of time, and to him time was important. His premise was that sincere repentance includes recognizing the mistake, profiting by the experience, plus the determination never to commit the same erTor again. 368 Father was a wonderful playmate and companion. He liked to combine learning with recreation. He had a knack for making large and colorful kites that he sent into the sky on windy days. All of the children in the neighborhood and some of the grownups would meet for the launching. It was great fun to watch the kite rise, dip, and flutter. It dive and then level off, with the tail forming all kinds of contortions. We watched with suspense when he reeled the kite in, missing power lines and treetops. By this simple maneuvering of just a toy he taught us that skill and knowledge make performance of most endeavors sure and easy. Because he could not afford the money to buy manufactured ball bats for our games, he carved remarkable ones for us out of scrap pieces of lumber. He mace them fairly long, wide, and flat, with a cut-out tapered place for the handle. They were used for years. By this demonstration he proved to us that many times by patient effort we can make things ourselves, thus using our time and talents for self-development while furthering our desires. He encouraged us to see