[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | January | Issue: 6 | Title: WEDDING RECEPTION AT THE BEE | Author: Unknown]

WEDDING RECEPTION AT THE BEE
HIVE HOUSE.
“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”
	A very pretty home wedding was cele-
brated at the Bee Hive House in this city,
Thursday, December 15,1910. Mr. E. Wes-
ley Smith and Miss May Smith were mar-
ried in the Salt Lake Temple at 10 a. m.
President Joseph F. Smith, father of the
bridegroom, performed the ceremony that
united them for time and all eternity.
	The reception was held in the Bee Hive
House in the evening and was a very home-
like affair. The spacious rooms were taste-
fully decorated in colors and the host and
hostess, President Joseph F. and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith, parents of the bridegroom,
were assisted in receiving by Brother John
Smith and wife, parents of the bride, and
members of the family.
	One corner of the large reception room
was very artistically arranged for the bridal
party with wreaths of holly and beautiful
roses, festooned and garlanded and the new-
ly wedded bride and bridegroom with the
most charming bridesmaids, sisters of the
bridegroom. Misses Rachel and Edith Smith
on the left and on the right, Mr. Gordon
Hyde best man, certainly it was a beauti-
ful picture to look upon as they stood re-
ceiving the numerous guests who came to
greet and congratulate them, and to shower
upon them every good wish for joy and
happiness in their future lives.
	Conversation among the guests, meeting
old friends and acquaintances as well as new
ones seemed quite entertaining, and then
there were the presents to admire, and there
were many of them and in great variety,
refreshments, too, were served in the hand-
some dining room, and each guest had a tiny
box of wedding cake handed round by the
pretty little girls in pink, blue, and white
costumes, and by and bye when the two hun-
dred and fifty people had all been served
and it was really time to say an revoir, there
was a great commotion, and lo and behold
it was the bride throwing her bridal bouquet
of long stemmed white roses among the bevy
of beautiful young ladies.
	The Exponent extends hearty congratula-
tions to the young people just setting
sail on life’s battle ship, and may the winds
and waves be favorable for a long and pros-
perous voyage with only such experiences
as shall cause them to cling close to each
other, and to the Great Pilot who will land
them at last with a heavy freight of Smiths
in a happy haven, where only sweet content
and peace abound; but should rough winds
blow hold together and you will be able to
face all sorts of weather, and come off tri-
umphant.


[Column 1]
