[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | January | Issue: 6 | Title: Woman’s Onward March | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN’S ONWARD MARCH.
	It is only by contrasting the position of
women forty years ago with that which they
occupy today that an adequate idea can be
obtained of the great advance they have
made. They have had to fight, it is true,
for every inch of the road they have won.
Just as they are being opposed today in
their demand for the vote by the prejudice
and selfishness of men, so they have had to
face hostility in their demand to be allowed
to share in educational opportunities and
to work in professions and occupations
which men had monopolized. That work is
not yet finished, but many of the bulwarks
have been broken down. Medicine is a pro-
fession now open to women, but the doors of
law are still barred against them. The latest
masculine preserve to be thrown open to
women is the delegacy to the Wesleyan
Conference. The matter was considered by
last year’s Conference, and it was referred
to the District Synods for their considera-
tion. It is reported that twenty-four dis-
tricts have voted in favor of women being
admitted to the Conference and ten against
the change. The Conference considered this
decision last week, and ultimately decided
by 179 votes to 153 to alter the constitution
of the Conference so as to admit women.
That vote shows that a good proportion of
the leading Wesleyan Methodists are still in
the bondage of ancient ideas about women,
but it is significant of the trend of modern
thought that such a conservative body as
the Wesleyans should have adopted the pro-
posed change.—London Christian Common-
wealth.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
