[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Future Activities of the Society]

FUTURE ACTIVITIES OF THE SOCIETY.
The unrelated work done by the various auxiliary organizations of the Church and the confused and crowding conference dates on which the auxiliaries hold their various conferences, has been the subject of much thought and discussion.
Recently a co-relation committee was appointed by the Presidency of the Church, with representatives from the Council of  the Twelve ^Elder David McKay being chairman of that committee and two or more members of each general board.
These brethren and sisters have labored now for some time in preparing their comprehensive and excellent report, covering all points connected with conference dates, mode of apportioning time at those conferences, with the study along theological lines to be followed by each organization.
This report has not yet been made public but we are pleased to acquaint our own; organization with the matters that it contains belonging to us.
According to this arrangement all auxiliary organizations are to hold their conferences at the same time that the stake conferences are in session.
That is, the Relief Society, as all the other organizations will have a portion of the time on both Saturday and Sunday when the regular stake conference convenes.
The time each organization has for the presentation of its particular work is the same, but the dates are arranged in rotation.
The months for the holding of our Relief Society conferences are May, June and July; with the exception of the Salt Lake City stakes and those very close to this city.
These are to be held in November.
The time given for our work at the stake conferences is Saturday forenoon, with an officers' meeting on Sunday morning between 9 a. m. and 10:25 a. m.. and Sunday evening.
This gives the Relief Society one private meeting on Saturday morning, an officers' meeting on Sunday morning and a public session on Sunday evening.
The rest of the time will be occupied with the business of the stake conference.
The study which is to be provided for our Relief Society theological department is to be the same as that taken up by the quorums of the Melchisedek Priesthood.
For this year, however, we have been permitted to use our genealogical study in its place.
.
23 ANNUAL DUES.
Stake officers will be reminded that our Annual Day is approaching.
While making arrangements for the festivities and programes which mark that event, let us not forget the annual dues.
The officers should explain in the spirit of love and kindness the many and good reasons why the dues have been raised from ten cents to twenty-five cents.
This matter was entered into fully and was agreed upon at our annual business meeting of the October (1913) conference, by the representatives of the stakes there assembled.
Take up this work of explanation and conversion in due season so that all shall understand and be prepared for this change.
Our society is growing rapidly and new lines of activity are springing up.
The harvest is ripening fast and our laborers must be prepared to thrust in our sickles and reap.