[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: WOMAN'S RECORD. | Author: Unknown]

		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Rose Lathrop, an artist, Hawthorne's
youngest daughter, is about to illustrate a
new edition of Mrs. Horace Mann's "Flow-
er People."
	MISS Sarah C. Woolsey, the popular writer
for children, better known to the public by
the nom de plume of "Susan Coolidge,"
has lately returned from Europe.
	JENNY Lind, now Madame Goldschmidt,
has been singing again, not exactly in pub-
lic, but before a number of the Earl of Lev-
en's tenants, at Glenferness House, who had
been invited to hear her.
	HELEN Jackson Cabot, Boston; Miss Eu-
genie Homer, Roxbury; Miss Susan Mitch-
ell Monroe, Cambridge; Miss Harriet Jo-
sephine Williams, Boston, were the success-
ful applicants at the preliminary examina-
tions for women at Harvard College.
	FOUR ladies of position in London have
become "home decorative artists." They
undertake the whole furnishing, upholster-
ing, furniture, and all that tends to embel-
lish the interior of a dwelling. They are
said to be remarkably clever and very suc-
cessful. They have served a regular ap-
prenticeship and acquired a thorough know-
ledge of the business.
	ANNA E. Dickenson, who has had such
bad health during the past summer that
much of the time she has been confined to
her room, is again in the lecture field. She
has lately presented to the public, a lecture
on "Joan of Arc," which is said to surpass
all her former productions. She will proba-
bly go to Europe.
	CHARLOTTE Cushman bade farewell to
the New York stage on the 7th ult. It was
an imposing scene. There was a great
gathering of celebrities, a poem by R. H.
Stoddard, an address by William Cullen
Bryant, and a reply by Miss Cushman, in

[Column 2]
which she referred to her early struggles,
saying that her necessities taught her that
to succeed she must be in earnest.
	MISS Anna Snow was just getting up to
leave a train of cars at Newburyport, some
two weeks ago, having ridden from Boston,
when she found a roll of bills of large amount
in her lap, but how they came there she 
could not tell. She advertised them, and
on Friday a man proved them to be his,
though he was not on the train the day they
were found, and had never been at New-
buryport.
	MATILDA Fletcher, during the past year,
has lectured one hundred nights, has trav-
elled seven thousand miles, has written a
book upon "Practical Ethics" for schools
and families, and has invented, to illustrate
it, a beautiful chart, so that a child can com-
prehend with ease their mutual relations.
She has also prepared three new lectures,
two of which, "The Heart of a Man," and
"What Can You Do?" were given to the
public last winter and met with great popu-
larity. The other one, significantly styled
"The Ethics of Marriage," will be preson-
ted for the first time during the coming
season.


