Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 30 and October 1. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 30, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 30, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 1, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 30, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Picture Kit for 1964-65 Theology Lessons Available A picture kit for use as a visual aid in presenting the theology lessons for 1964-65 is available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, price $1.00, plus 10c for postage. The kit consists of black and white pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Newel K. Whitney, Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Hyde, and Joseph F. Smith; and colored pictures of Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, and Edward Partridge. Visual Aid Packet Available for 1964-65 Literature Lessons Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and clarifying an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a lesson. A picture packet of carefully planned visual aids for the 1964-65 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84601; or from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The cost is $3.50 postpaid, and the packet will be available September 1, 1964. It will contain eight sheets, consisting of a literature evaluation chart; portraits of three authors (Browning, Galsworthy, and Burns); reproductions of three paintings ("Tintern Abbey," The '"Syndics" and "The Vigil'); and a Grecian urn. LLIE, you aren't eating your = supper." Mother looked at me in concern. I choked. 'Really mother, I just can't seem to swallow tonight." Nancy eyed the food before her. "'Me, too. How come your stomach gets all tied up in knots when you're excited?" "That's 'cause you're thinking too much, like me.'"' Tom reached for his fourth muffin. '""When I shut my eyes, I can just see the fish splashing and the sun shining on the water. I almost can't eat either, just thinking about it." "Now look here." Daddy put down his fork. "We can't take a pack of starved coyotes along with us. You young ones better relax and eat your supper. You'll need energy to help finish packing. We're going to get an early start in the morning." "Don't urge them to eat," Grandma said. 'There were times when I was a child that I'd get too excited to eat. Just the thoughts of going places did it to me." We looked gratefully at Grandma. She always understood. We had plenty of energy to help finish loading. Daddy didn't 588 need to worry. After all, ever since I could remember, we had been going to go to Yellowstone someday. It was going to be someday when Daddy had enough vacation time coming to make the trip worthwhile; and someday when there weren't too many bills to pay, and someday when Daddy and Mother didn't have special meetings to interfere, and a hundred and one other reasons. Well, believe it or not, that someday had actually arrived. It was no longer a dream but a reality. Daddy had rented the biggest camper he could get. It had two bedrooms, if you can call them rooms, one for Grandma, and one for Daddy and Mother. It had a gas refrigerator and stove and running water and — well just about all of the comforts of home. Daddy said he just loved to rough it. Nancy and Tom and I had sleeping bags. We wanted to sleep under the stars. Daddy put in a tent, ''just in case." I washed the supper dishes and Grandma wiped. "You're excited, too, aren't you, Grandma?" I grinned. "You only nibbled instead of eating." She winked at me. "Tom and your daddy don't need to think they're the only fishermen in the family. I reckon we women folks might even show them up a bit." The look on her face gave me a merry feeling. One thing troubled me about fishing. That was worms. Tom had a bait can full of them. I couldn't tell Grandma I'd never touched a worm. I'd have to figure out some natural way to get someone else to bait my hook. I don't believe Mother cared much for worms, either. She was packing embroidery work and gathering up some magazines to read. As she reached for her , an unopened letter fell to the floor. She picked it up and looked at the postmark. The letter was two weeks old. Quickly she tore it open. For a minute I thought she was going to faint. She dropped into a chair and sat staring at the paper. It was an important letter, for sure. Mother straightened. '""Who put this inside my magazine?" She held out the letter like it was a document from the President of the United States. We all looked at each other. The air was very tense. "Ellie? Tom? Nancy?" As she looked at each of-us, we mutely shook our heads. Dappy cleared his throat. "I'm sorry, dear. I am the guilty one. I picked up the mail one day when I was on an errand. I was afraid of misplacing your letter, so I slipped it inside the magazine you had left in the car. I must have forgotten it." Whee! That let us three off the hook. "Is there any damage done?" Daddy asked.