Your Heart to Understanding anger CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel from Winter Quarters to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiance died at Winter Quarters, cannot overcome the great sorrow and bitterness of her loss. When the wagon train arrives in the Valley, Belle and Josiah are married, and, later they leave with a group of saints to settle in San Bernardino, California. Selena and Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting, also join the company but are separated for most ofthe journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who has traveled ail the way to San Bernardino with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues his ardent courtship after the company arrives at San Bernardino. Much difficulty is encountered in securing title to the land, and Lon volunteers to journey to the gold camps to secure money for purchase of the land. Et was a long trip north that Brothers Lyman and Rich and their little group of men had mapped out for themselves. But everywhere they found members of the Church, the response to their request for financial help was gratifying and immediate. The brethren were willing, and even anxious, to ease the needs of the group waiting in San Bernardino Valley. To Lon, saddened though he was by his own personal problem, the trip was a revelation. In the same camp with drunkards and gamblers were to be found converts to the revealed gospel of Christ who gave their last bit of gold dust to aid in the establishment of the new settlement. A request from the two apostles was to them a call from the Lord, himself, and Lon found their faith strengthening his own. Selena had been somewhat puzzled by Lon's apparent disinterest in her when he left the camp, and with Alfred Quale's proposal of marriage the previous evening, she was seriously considering marrying him. "Come on, Selena, away from the wagon for a bit," he had urged. "I have an important question to discuss with you, and it isn't for Belle nor Josiah to hear." Selena had known the time had arrived when Alfred planned to ask her to marry him and wondered just why he had chosen this particular time, when the affairs of the camp were in a rather uncertain state. As they walked out along the trail through the grove, Alfred wasted no time. "We can be married right away, Selena," he had said. "I expect to come into a bit of money, a sort of legacy you might call it," and he had laughed in a strange, mysterious way. He certainly wasn't a man who would be sharing all his dealings in detail with a wife, Selena had thought. But then he would be around, and with the Indians constantly besieging the camp in their never-ending begging for food, this trait in her future husband had become important to Selena. Unlike Lon, who was leaving in the morning for a lengthy trip north, Alfred wouldn't always be jumping in response to what he considered to be a call from authority, letting his own affairs take care of themselves. This YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING problem would always be with her, she knew very well, if she married Lon Holiday. The thoughts passed with lightning speed through her mind, as did also the fact that Alfred hadn't really asked her. He had apparently assumed, in his selfassurance, that she could not possibly refuse him. "We're two alike, Selena. I hate this idea of empire building that seems to possess the others. We can leave here together, Selena, and go north where the empire is already underway. The bishop can perform the ceremony, then, when the leaders get back, we can be on our way." This last puzzled Selena. "If we wait until they return, I should very much like to have Brother Lyman marry us. But I don't understand your wanting to wait until they come." "T just can't walk away without a proper goodbye, my sweet. I shall always owe the two brethren who led us here a great debt." Selena was not sure whether Alfred was serious or whether there was a bit of sarcasm in his words, but his plan held out to her a means of escape, and she had decided to take it. But upon one point she was determined to insist, to wait until the apostles returned to have their marriage performed. "Since you plan to remain until Brother Lyman is back, Alfred, you can have no serious objection to having him marry us," she said.. "All right, if that's the way you want it. I had thought to be ready to leave almost immediately, but I presume that giving in to you on this won't give you the idea that I intend always to give in to your whims. But since that's settled, come here. I've been waiting a long time for this:"' Alfred had pulled her to him and kissed her, long and hard. Selena resisted an impulse to pull away, watching the bright, full moon high above the sycamores. Upon her return to camp Selena decided against telling Belle and Josiah. There was plenty of time to do so before the men returned from the north. She went directly to bed after Alfred returned to his own wagon, her thoughts a whirl of confusion. The gospel meant a good deal to Selena, and she knew what she was planning was fundamentally wrong. But she felt she just couldn't remain in the San Bernardino settlement. WHEN the wagon left Sycamore Grove for San Pedro to meet the south-bound brig Fremont which was carrying the supplies the brethren had sent for the camp, Josiah went along. "T'll be just fine, Josiah," Belle had insisted. "You'll only be gone a few days, and itll give you a chance to see a bit more of California." He met Lon and learned that Brother Lyman had not returned with the others, having stayed north in an effort to raise more money. Brother Rich had gone to Los Angeles with the funds already obtained and would return to the Grove from there. Most of the wagons had returned to the grove before Brother Rich put in an appearance. A gun shot was heard in the camp 606 that night. Josiah remembered it later, wondering just what it was. By noon the next day he knew. A stranger came into camp asking for Alfred Quale. Josiah paused from pulling burrs from the tail of his horse and nodded his head in Alfred's direction. A heated argument followed, and though Josiah couldn't hear it all, he heard enough. That gun shot the night Brother Rich brought the money into camp was probably a signal. Quale had planned with this man and others to waylay Brother Rich out somewhere along the road. Suddenly the man swung at Quale. Josiah watched, but made no effort to intervene. A short few minutes later the man looked at Quale on the ground, blood oozing from Alfred's mouth. "Next time when you say New Road you'd better mean New Road. You knew all the time Rich would come on the Old Road that's seldom traveled. You had ideas of getting it all for yourself. That's why I'm here, right in your camp, to let them know just what you are." The man jumped on his horse and was gone. By morning Alfred Quale had left also and never again was seen in the camp of the saints. One week later Brother Rich performed the marriage of Selena Baldwin and Lon Holiday. BELLE and Josiah offered a prayer of thankfulness, took a good deep breath apiece, and relaxed. But for Lon this was to be the beginning of days and months running into years during which he was to wonder over and over again whether the time would ever come when Selena would ever feel deep love for him. Selena, herself, found a measure of comfort in knowing that she had not left the Church, as Alfred had planned for her to do. There was a great strength which she drew from Lon. But there were to be many, many times, when she would hate herself for her own weakness; for her inability to return the love she received from Lon; for the hurt she caused him in return for his unceasing goodness to her. She recognized all of these, and yet remained powerless to act as she would have done, had she no memory of a burial in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Negotiations were finally completed, and then came the day when the Mormons moved onto the Rancho del San Bernardino. The originally planned 80,000 acres proved to be in reality 35,509. The purchase price af $70,000 changed also, to $77,500, yet it was a day of great rejoicing when the settlers were at last on their own land. One square mile was set aside as the site for the town. "We will pattern it after the City of the Great Salt Lake," Brother Rich declared, "with a temple block in the center of the city." INow the work began in earnest. Homes must be built, land cleared and plowed, and fences built. The fences intrigued Belle. "T've never seen anything like it, Josiah," she said. 'Live willow posts, driven in the ground, and then they say that the posts will continue growing to form a YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING hedge-like land." It was on an afternoon when they were nearing completion of the first section of the fence, and Josiah had gone for more posts, that Belle felt her first pain. She simply stood her axe by the fence, asked Lon to tell Josiah she had gone to the wagon, and walked calmly toward it. Belle had always handled everything quickly and efficiently, and with as little fuss as pos-- sible. She had no intention of doing otherwise now. She knew she must get Sister Tenny and was glad that it wasn't far. The pains were becoming a bit more bothersome. Josiah returned with the posts, and by the time the fence was finished the baby had arrived. Belle, as _ usual, worked things out well on schedule. Only then, according to Belle's wishes, did Sister Tenny call to Josiah, "Come and see your son," after walking some distance to the end of the section of fence. Josiah's face paled. "Lon! You said " Josiah turned toward his friend. "T said all she told me, Josiah. She never once mentioned that she was leaving to have the baby." Josiah dropped his axe and ran, but at the wagon box he stopped and climbed in carefully, moving to the bed where Belle lay, cheerful and smiling. "Belle! Why didn't you say something? Why didn't you call me?" "Land sakes, Josiah. You'd have become excited as you are now, and you never would have finished the fence today." fence around the Josiah turned to the baby, his face filled with the wonder of him. "My boy! My son!"' he said. "Well, Josiah Blodgett!" said Belle spiritedly. 'You might remember that he belongs to me a little, too." Lon withdrew to go and tell Selena. WHEN the news came that the Indians were planning an attack, _all work on homes ceased. Along with her fears, Selena suffered a great disappointment. Lon had spoken of the home he planned to build. "'What kind of trees are there in the mountains, Lon?" she had asked.. "You name it, Selena, and it's there, cedar, pine, hemlock. There is a sugar-pine with light, almost white wood and straightgrained with no pitch. That is what we will use for the finishing. There'll not be a house in all New England made of better materials." "Oh, Lon!" she cried. "Really? No soft adobe with the dust blowing from the cracks?" "No adobe, Selena," he said, thinking how very beautiful she was when she was excited about something, wondering for the hundredth time whether he could ever bring that light into her eyes. The thought of a beautiful home could do it, but her husband couldn't. Now, in the face of the Indian scare, all efforts were united in one big undertaking, that of building a fort. There were those in the group who had lived in Kentucky, and the fort was patterned after others they had seen there. But it was a big task and all building on individual homes ceased. It was Juan Antonio who brought the news. He was to be the best friend the Mormons had among the Indians. At one time the lands of San Bernardino had belonged to this Cahuilla Chief and his people. Now they lived on a small bit of land in San Gorgonio Canyon. Juan Antonio met with Brother Rich and Brother Hunter, the Indian Agent, telling them of Chief Garra's invitation to attend a convocation of chiefs. "Who is this Garra?"' Brother Rich asked. "He's an independent chief with a band of renegade Indians, and he is the scourge of Southern California. He killed eleven of a group of Californians who sought refuge at Pauma during the Mexican War. Juan Antonio, here, aided the whites in driving Garra off at that time. There have been feelings between the two ever since. Personally, I am surprised that you have been invited, Juan," Hunter said. "Garra has set himself a big job," replied Juan Antonio, his English almost as perfect as his physique. He stood tall in the group of men, his white teeth flashing in contrast to the copper tones of his skin. "He needs all the Indians he can get, and plans to drive out all the Americans from San Diego to Santa Barbara." "The news has traveled fast," said Hunter. "San Diego County has enrolled every able-bodied' man, and Los Angeles County has a large volunteer group on its way now to station themselves at the Chino Ranch." "Yes," agreed Brother Rich. '"'We've been asked to send our own quota to join the men at Chino. Seems wisest to send those without families and the other men could stay here with the women and children and keep on with finishing the fort." General Bean, commander of the militia in Southern Califomia, called at the fort and commended the Mormons for their undertaking. "Your fort is a wise move," he said, watching the beehive of activity. There were over one hundred men busy cutting and splitting the trunks of cottonwood trees, fitting them close together, and setting them three feet down into the ground. The finished wall looked to be about twelve feet high, with the outer walls of the houses making a part of the fence. Others of the settlers were making the ditch from Garner's Springs to bring water through the fort. "You will be well prepared for any move Garra may make," added the General. '""We're trying to keep track of him enough that we can anticipate his plans. Usually we have succeeded, but he was ahead of us at Agua Caliente, and twelve men were lost." "But how can you know?" asked Brother Rich. 'Where do you get any information about his next raid?" "Juan Antonio is our best help," said the general. "His braves have gone right into Garra's camp without being detected, a time or two. He's a wicked Indian, Garra. No respect for any YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING man's life, except perhaps _ his own. We have plenty of evidence against him. All that remains to be done is to take him into custody." "Quite a large order, isn't it, General?" asked Josiah. "From what I've heard there isn't a horse in the state than can stay with his." "It's true, all right," answered the General. "I've lost him on more than one occasion for that. Very reason. Had a good mount under me, too. When he is taken the law won't be the winner nearly as much as the man who gets that white horse." It was soon after the move into the fort and into the small cabin Selena and Lon shared with Belle and Josiah that Brother Rich and Brother Lyman both came to see Lon. Selena knew instantly that something important was in the air. She withdrew to the end of the room where her bed was, dropping the curtain down between herself and the men. It won't matter what they want, Lon will be ready and willing, she thought, half angrily. He thinks the greatest honor in life is to be worthy to suffer for the Church. The voices came easily through to where Selena lay, as Brother Lyman said, "It's not an easy task we're asking, Lon. Juan Antonio brings us word that Garra is set up for his next raid. It is to be against the Weaver Ranch at San Gorgonio."' 'What we had in mind, Lon," continued Brother Rich, "was this. A white man could ride into the Weaver Ranch without Weaver thinking it might be Garra and 60? starting to fire. You are to go with Juan, warn Weaver and his men, and give them time to move out and go into hiding. Juan's braves, those whom he can really trust, will join you then in the ranch house. When Garra arrives and sees the Indian ponies, he will think that Juan and his men have decided to join him and will walk right into the trap." There was a long moment of silence. Selena's heart pounded at the danger Lon would be in. "'We realize there are a number of things that could go wrong, but we have given a great deal of thought to this, and it looks like the best plan in order to have the least fighting and the fewest possible lives lost." Again the brethren fell silent, waiting for Lon to speak. "T don't blame you for being hesitant," Brother Rich said. "You have every right to turn the proposition down, but Juan Antonio has great respect for you, Lon. He asked that we would send you with him. Your wife will object to your going, of course. But this may be the means of saving many, many lives, Brother Holiday." Selena knew exactly the hurt look that would be in Lon's eyes. She wanted to rush past the heavy curtain, throw herself into his arms and beg him not to go. But the habit of keeping a stern grip on any show of emotion was strong upon her. She gripped her arms hard, feeling her nails sink into her own flesh. Lon's voice was even when he = spoke. "There'll be no problem in that quarter, Brother Rich. I shall be ready as soon as the horses are."' (To be concluded)