[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson II - Work and Business]
Nature,  working  in  untold  ages  through  the  agency  of  her 
master  builder — erosion— has  created  here,  in  Bryce  Canyon, 
in  the  heart  of  southern  Utah's  Wonderland,  an  appalling  spec- 
tacle that  is  destined  to  charm  countless  mortals  in  the  years  to 
come.  It  ranks  with  the  greatest  of  the  world's  wonders.  In 
iact  it  is  the  only  known  spectacle  of  its  kind  in  existence.  It  has 
proven  its  popularity  as  a  world  wide  scenic  attraction  by  the 
thousands  of  tourists  who  have  already  visited  here,  and  who  have

A  MEMORABLE  JOURNEY.  629 
pronounced  it  as  undoubtedly  the  greatest  single  scenic  eyeful  in 
the  world. 
Bryce  Canyon  is  not  really  a  c.anyon  but  a  giant  amphi- 
theatre or  basin  about  two  miles  wide  and  three  miles  long.  It 
lies  on  the  edge  of  a  high  plateau,  at  an  elevation  of  eight  thou- 
sand feet,  in  the  heart  of  the  Sevier  National  Forest  in  Garfield 
county,  Ut^h.  Vast  and  mighty  miracles  have  been  wrought  here ; 
for  the  softer  parts  of  the  mountain  have  been  eroded  away,  leav- 
ing an  indescribably  weird  array  of  huge  towers,  spires,  minarets 
and  temples  adorning  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  canyon. 
The  first  view  of  it  as  you  arrive  is  from  the  top  or  rim,  and 
at  the  beginning  there  is  far  too  much  to  see;  far  too  much  to 
comprehend.  The  imposing  monuments  and  labyrinthine  depths 
of  this  tremendous  chasm,  all  in  (a  mass  of  unbehevably  gorgeous 
colors,  fairly  stagger  the  mind  and  move  the  soul  to  awe  and 
adoration  at  the  manifestation  of  an  agency  too  great  for  human 
comprehension.  In  places  there  is  a  sheer  drop  of  eight  hun- 
dred feet  from  the  rim  to  the  floor  of  the  canyon,  and  many  of 
the  giant  monoliths  far  exceed  in  height  the  tallest  office  building. 
President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Elder  George  A.  Smith  and 
associates  went  on  to  St.  George  holding  the  conference  scheduled 
in  that  city  for  September  17  and  18.  The  festival  in  St.  George 
was  on  during  that  week.  It  consisted  chiefly  of  Wild  West  shows 
and  a  grand  concert,  by  Elmma  Lucy  Gates  and  Frances  Grant 
The  people  were  delighted  with  the  show  and  v;ith  the  concert 
given  by  these  two  artists.  Emma  Lucy  came  down  by  auto  with 
a  party,  President  Joseph  Quinney  and  wife  of  the  Logan  stake, 
Mr.  Albert  E.  Bowen,  whose  wife  happens  to  be  ESmma  Lucy 
herself.  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  wife,  with  Miss  Frances  Grant. 
The  piarty  left  St.  George  immediately  after  the  concert,  driving 
back  to  Cedar  for  a  concert  there  September  17,  after  which  they 
made  the  rounds  of  the  Canyons. 
The  conference  which  followed  was  successful  in  every 
particular.  A  number  of  the  visitors  attended  services  in  the  St. 
George  temple  and  enjoyed  the  happy  association  with  that  veter^'^ 
temple  worker  and  long  time  St.  George  Temple  President,  David 
H.  Cannon. 
No  more  beautiful  and  healthful  winter  resort  is  found  in 
America  than  St.  George.  Dry,  warm,  sunny,  and  surrounded 
with  dazzling  jet  black,  red  and  gold  mountain  scenery,  the  home 
of  superior  and  genial  Latter-day  Saints,  with  the  supreme  at- 
traction of  a  temple  as  the  jewel  in  its  crown  of  rare  semi-tropi- 
cal beauty,  the  wonder  is  that  our  people  who  travel  do  not  spend 
their  winters  here  instead  of  in  t^at  misty,  soggy-wet,  crowded, 
vanity-loving  winter-resort,  Los  Angeles ! 
The  temple  is  never  crowded.     Hundreds  more  "could  be  ac-

630  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
commodated  by  skillful  planning,  and  the  Saints  could  partake  of 
the  pure,  heavenly  influence  therein  maintained.  President  Can- 
iton  has  preserved  in  his  own  clear-verbal  memory  and  in  careful 
records  the  instructions  and  s|ayings  of  President  Brigham  Young 
who  spent  his  last  winter  upon  earth  within  these  sacred  walls, 
instructing  the  brethren  in  the  most  minute  details  concerning 
the  ordinance  work  revealed  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
taught  in  careful  exactitude  to  Brigham  Young  by  the  Prophet 
himself.  The  ceremonies  are  precisely  the  same  as  given  there 
under  President  Young,  in  1877,  with  ja  single  exception. 
President  Edward  H.  Snow,  is  a  rare  combination  of  good 
judgment,  conservative  wisdom,  and  forward-looking  progression, 
where  change  does  not  alter  principle  or  interfere  with  funda- 
mentals. No  doubt  he  will  be  moved  upon  in  the  near  future  to 
co-operate  with  the  authorities  of  other  stakes  in  the  St.  George 
temple  district  to  establish  a  cheap,  community  lodging-house 
where  temple  parties  may  be  accommodated  for  short  and  long 
periods.  With  the  nearer  approach  of  a  railroad,  running  at  least 
to  Cedar,  a  new  impetus  will  be  given  to  preparations  for  visitors 
and  visiting  temple  groups.  Such  schemes  would  build  up  Dixie 
from  the  right  angle,  adding  to  its  temporary  and  permanent 
population,  stimulating  business  activity  in  every  direction,  and 
all  on  righteous  principles,  without  the  fevered  growth  of  oil- 
booms,  and  the  dangerous  prosperity  which  too  often  costs  a  com- 
munity the  ownership  of  homes  and  farms  as  well  as  the  salvation 
of  its  sons  and  daughters. 
The  people  of  St.  George  are  worthy  successors  to  their 
sturdy  pioneer  fathers  and  mothers.  The  young  people  dressed 
modestly  at  their  social  and  party,  and  the  older  people  are 
living  fheir  religion  as  well  as  human  mutations  allow.  The 
financial  condition  is  safer  perhaps  in  St.  George  than  in  some 
other  sections  of  the  southern  country.  At  least,  their  own 
bank  is  among  the  soundest  of  banks  in  the  state. 
At  both  conferences  Professor  Vincent  Cardon,  spoke  with 
intelligent  and  appropriate  discrimination  concerning  the  value 
of  education  for  young  people,  and  the  v|ast  possibilities  of  the 
future  for  the  youth  of  this  Church  and  State.  He  rendered  a 
vital  service  for  his  school,  and  for  the  cause  of  education  in  the 
state,  by  his  attractive  remarks  and  his  magnetic  personality. 
The  whole  trip  was  a  delightful  pleasure  to  all  who  under- 
took it.  One  sad  note  connected  with  our  excuision  was  the  re- 
turn home  of  Sister  Ruth  May  Fox  from  the  Kanab  conference, 
called  home  by  the  serious  illness  of  her  beloved  husband. 
The  sisters  in  the  party  each  spoke  at  the  various  meetings, 
and  President  Grant  himself  commended  their  efforts  one  and  all. 
The  ReUef  Society  interests  in  both  of  these  sfiakes  are  well