[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Origin, Object and Destiny of Women]

Origin, Object and Destiny of Women | The following is taken from The Mormons, published in New York City by the late President John Taylor, of August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished us by Robert Maw, of Plain City: The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. We have often been requested to give our views in relation to the principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore not meet to give them to those without. But being very politely requested by a lady a few days since, (a member of the Church) to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse;—viz., Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? And what is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?" For her benefit and all others concerned, we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for eternity. Lady, whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me if thou hast understanding? Knowest thou not, that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of his eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy heavenly Father's bosom, and in his presence, with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, thou wert surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits inthe spirit world, among the Gods? That as thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou grew in intelligence, thou sawest worlds upon worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits, take upon them tabernacles, die, but resurrected and receive their exaltation on the redeemed worlds they once dwelt upon. Thou, being willing and anxious to imitate them, waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission. Thou made a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits, to be thy guardian angel while in mortality; also covenanted with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their Jineage, and hecome one 
 Of their offspring. You also chose a kindred spirit whom you loved in the spirit world, (and had permission to come to this planet and take a tabernacle,) to be your head, stay, husband, and protection on the earth, and to exalt you in the eternal worlds. All these were arranged, likewise the spirits that should tabernacle through your lineage. Thou longed, thou sighed, and prayed to thy Father in heaven for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob, leaving thy father and mother's bosoms and all thy kindred spirits to come to earth, take a tabernacle, and to imitate the deeds of those you had seen exalted before you. At length the time arrived, and thou heardst the voice of thy Father, saying. "Go, daughter, to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle, and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But, daughter, remember you go on this condition, that is, you are to forget all things you ever saw, or knew to be transacted here; but you must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in your infancy subject to sickness, pain, tears mourning, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of your heart they will vibrate, then intelligence shall illuminate yout mind, and shed its lustre in your soul, and you shall begin to un~ derstand the things you once knew, but which had gone from you, you shall then begin to understand and know the object of your creation. Daughter, £0, and be faithful in your second estate. Keep it as faithful as thou hast thy first estate." Thy spirit—filled with joy and thanksgiving—rejoiced in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou badest father, mother and all farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, you came on this terraqueous globe. The spirits thou hadst chosen for parents came and took tabernacles. Through their lineage; (and your head having left the spirit world some years previous ) thou didst come a spirit pure and holy; thou hast taken upon thee a tabernacle, thou hast watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him you loved in the spirit world to be thy companion Now crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee in the eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of the heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by, and walk in a, celestial law, fulfil the designs of thy creation, and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, you may 2° down to your grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive your everlasting reward in the resurrection of the just, along with Priestess—queen unto thy heavenly Father, and a glory to thy. Husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other mate destiny, if faith fay Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink then the heavenly draught and live, Yarrow By