Dr. George H. BRIMHALL: GEORGE H. BRIMHALL, the father of our board member, Jennie Brimhall Knight, beloved teacher, lecturer, writer, passed from the earth life on July 29. He has played an important part in Church progress, laboring with untiring zeal and with staunch faith for the work he so dearly loved. While school activities engaged the greater portion of his time and energy, he took a prominent part in the activities of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, serving on the General Board for many, many years. At the time of H. Brimhall his death he was President Emeritus of the Brigham Young University, and professor of religious education in that institution. He was well known as an ardent supporter of suffrage, prohibition, civic betterment, and public welfare. For a score of years, ever since the organization of the Timpanogos Boy Scout Council, he served as chair-. Man of the Court of Honor. The national organization conferred a silver badge on him for his unexcelled service. We loved Dr. Brimhall for his wonderful personality. He was 546 aggressive, progressive, forward looking. The cause was the big thing in his mind, and he was ever ready to humbly efface himself, putting his whole energy to forward any movement that he was working for. He was: "One who never turned his back, but marched breast forward; Never doubted clouds would break; Never dreamed, though right was worsted, wrong would triumph. Held, we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, sleep to wake." He could say much in a short time, and say it so effectively that his messages stayed with his hearers. His devotion to his calling and his allegiance to the authorities of the Church were dynamic, and many young people followed in his footsteps, fired by his enthusiasm and ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dauntless faith. His loyalty to the Brigham Young University brought friends to its support in times of need and led it through many narrow places to stand entrenched and bulwarked, ready for other struggles. His lessons, articles and talks inspired to higher thinking and nobler action. ? Many a man today looks back on his boyhood days and remembers that Dr. Brimhall came to him at the crossroads and stimulated him to choose the better things that cannot be taken away. He has wrought well; he has furthered his Father's work. Blessed be his memory. May peace come to his family. May his children and grandchildren prove worthy of their noble sire, Annie D. Palmer HE General Board feels keenly the loss of Annie D. Palmer, supervisor of the Family Welfare Department of the L. D. S. Relief Society. Sister Palmer was a woman of outstanding ability, a clear thinker, a fine teacher, a versatile writer. She was dependable, honest, sympathetic, and her gift of vision enabled her to see through problems to a satisfactory solution. While her abilities called her into public life, she was a fine homemaker, a good cook, a charming hostess. Her keen sense of humor delighted all who came in contact with her. She was useful wherever she lived, whether in the mission field or at home. She loved to serve and was ever ready to use her talents for others. Our sympathy goes out to those who will so keenly miss her.