Notes from the Field Northwestern States Mission: N February 23, 1932, at Portland, Oregon, a program was carried out in commemoration of the two-hundredth anniversary of the birth of George Washington. Last year five trees were planted on the church grounds by the Portland, Eugene and Salem, Oregon, and Kelso, Washington, Relief Societies, and a special feature of the Washington Bi-centennial program was the dedicating of these trees. The following trees were planted—two blue cypress, one Norway Maple, one dogwood, and one cut-leaf birch. The program carried out was as follows: ''Life of George Washington," Mrs. Clarice G. Sloan; vocal solo, Mrs. Gladys T. Thatcher; "Essay on Washington," Mrs. Emma Mattice; vocal solo, "Trees," Mrs. Gladys T. Thatcher. After the last named number all assembled around the trees where a short talk on Washington Bi-centennial tree planting of the Relief Societies was given by Pearl C. Sloan, president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Societies. The trees were dedicated by Mrs. Julia W. Eccles, president of the Portland Relief Society. Closing remarks, President William R. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission. Song, "America." Benediction, Mrs. May Sorenson. The day was one long to be remembered by members of the Relief Society, and the trees dedicated to the memory of the Father of our Country will long stand as symbols to the generations following us, that the mothers: of the Church stand for the highest ideals and patriotism. Simms Branch, Montana: TWO of the visiting teachers reported 100% visits during the year 1931. As they had no means of transportation, they were obliged to walk eight miles each month. This made a total of ninety-six miles these sisters walked while making their monthly visits to members in this rural district. As a token of appreciation, the Relief Society members presented each of these sisters with the book "A Life Sketch of Brigham Young." Their motto for the year 1932 is "100% visits," and they hope to be able to maintain the standard that was set in 1931. They receive a warm welcome and report that they are thankful for the opportunity they have, and for the blessings they receive by faithfully performing their duty. Palmyra Stake: WE have received the following " word from Palmyra Stake: "The Palmyra Stake Board wishes to report a social held June 3, 1932, at Spanish Fork. All stake and ward Relief Society officers were invited, and approximately two hundred and fifty women attended. At this social the two stories 'winning prizes in our short story contest, were read. Contests were held in each ward and the best ones from each ward entered the stake contest. A total of fifty-one stories was completed and read in the wards. "Three years ago, in order to improve the efficiency of the visiting teachers in our stake, a pennant was presented to the ward having the highest record of homes entered and lessons given. This year the Leland NOTES FROM THE FIELD Ward won it for the third consecutive year. This ward's three-year record is as follows: 1929-1930— 98 %; 1930-1931—95 %; 1931-1932 100%. This ward has! Fifty-five homes which are scattered along country lanes. Some teachers have to travel more than a mile from one end of their district to the other. SISTERS OF THE ENMORE Australian Mission: (ROM far away Australia comes this beautiful picture of the cast of a Book of Mormon pageant, dedicated to Mrs. Hazel B. Tingey, president of the Relief Society in Australia. This was presented in the form of a testimonial of regard to Sister Tingey upon her return to the Australian mission. It was composed and directed by Sister Elsie F. Parton, and the presentation was handled by members of the branch organization. It was a very lovely affair, and gave added interest to the study of the Book of Mormon, 541 The teachers willingly pledge themselves to make two visits when necessary, and then, if the home was not entered, and they could not revisit, they reported to the one of the presidency having the district in ' charge, and the presidency made the visit. We think this ward has made a record to be proud of." BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY and made these sisters feel that they were an integral part of the great Relief Society movement of the Church. South. African Mission: In a report from the South African Mission we read: "The first Convention of the Woman's Relief Society of the South African Mission terminated on Saturday, December 12, 1931. A great spirit prevailed during the nineteen sessions of the week, in which representatives from all the seven districts eagerly sought to better the  REPRESENTATIVES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION OF THE SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION fundamental workings of this great organization of the mission. "Mrs. Geneve J. Dalton, president of the Relief Societies of the Church, in South Africa, presided. Her splendid counsel, coupled with her love and devotion lent strength to every detail. The sisters who were "duly appointed Representatives, were untiring in the fulfilment of their duties, and in no instance was there a murmur or word spoken by any of them that could not be taken as a forward urge to the success of the Convention, and the numerous things 'discussed and decided upon. "The sisters commenced activities at 7:30 every morning, and concluded at ten o'clock at night. Each day was interspersed with recesses for light refreshments lunch, and a tennis tournament. "Resolutions were made, conclusions reached, and instructions received with a spirit of unity. No majority controlled any vote. Unless a unanimous decision was reached, the matter before the Convention was tabled, or parts stricken, or added, to conform to the full desire of the Representatives. A vote of love was always made. "The influence of women has been sweet throughout the history of the Church, and shows how great has been their mission in the building up of the Kingdom of God upon earth. Aiding in the correcting of morals and strengthening of virtues and rebuking when necessary, ministering to the social and material needs of the body of the people, the mothers of Zion will ever be honored for their efforts. "The organization of the Relief Society was another means for them to do their good work. They were taught to govern themselves under the direction of the Priesthood. They were able to do work men are not fitted to do. The Priesthood and Relief Society work hand in hand. They can be likened to husband and NOTES #ROM TH FIELD wife in the marriage covenant for time and eternity. We can see the wisdom of God in the organizing of these bodies of workers in cooperation in His Kingdom. The accomplishments of the Relief Society include the obtaining of much knowledge—not only in motherhood, homemaking, health, literature, theology, and economics, but in industries, all better equipping woman for her place in the new world of freedom. "Looking over the last century we can see the progress women have made in their new sphere and the good that has been accomplished. Woman has from time immemorial! Fought for social reform such as abolition of slavery, moderation and abstinence from alcoholic beverages. She has been particularly vigilant in the character field, which was recognized by the Prophet Joseph Smith as pre-eminently woman's. She has likewise been very active in caring for the down-trodden, and for the younger generation, always striving for the perfect home, and for the perfect character in! The youth of Zion, so that the world might well look upon these things as the foundation of society. Education has been the means for women to grow and develop to unthought of heights. Her freedom granted through the will of God, she fulfils her life here upon the earth." West Jordan Stake: VERY interesting report of activities of the West Jordan Stake is submitted: "The Herriman Relief Society presented the 543 three-act drama 'Saint Peter and the Relief Society,' at Riverton, November 18, 1931. This is a story depicting the earnest Relief Society worker and her reward hereafter, and the opposite in the indifferent one who offers excuses for not working. Her punishment is in keeping with her neglect. The musical selections and readings presented with the drama are as follows: 'Let Us All Press On,' 'Not Half Has Ever Been Told,' 'The Holy City,' 'Have I Done any Good in the World Today" 'The Pledge.' Readings: 'St. Peter Stood Guard,' 'Unawares, 'The Lord had a Job for Me.' Part II. A two-scene playlet 'Her Career,' written and directed by Mae B, Glazier, stake board member, and presented by the Riverton 2nd Ward. This is a beautiful Irish story pointing out the thought that after all motherhood and homemaking is the crowning career. A prologue to the presentation was 'An Irish Lullaby,' sung by La Vaughn Glazier and pantomined by Baby June 'Glazier and her doll. "Under the direction of members of the stake board, the three-act drama 'Rebecca's Triumph,' was presented by members of the West and South Jordan Relief Societies, in West Jordan, 'December 18, 1931. The play is in keeping with the standards our 'work demands. Violin selections. Were given by Richard Gardner and Harold Rindlesback; Readings by Pleasance Furse. Vocal Solos by Leo Palmer and duets by two Palmer children. The programs were voted a success. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD -: MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evang Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C, Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K, Allen President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager  Assistant Manager c Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y, Robison Amy Brown Lyman