Mormonism in a Disturbed Civilization By E. E. Ericksen
IN an age when progress seems to have turned upon itself, when knowledge, power, efficiency, industry, organization and invention seem to have defeated their own purpose; when the weapons of defense have become weapons of self-destruction, when the knowledge of production, of the arts and crafts, of methods of warfare, of communication, of the control of nature and of man has outrun man's knowledge of moral values and the spiritual purposes of life, there is felt a strong need for moral and social reconstruction. In other words, we need to catch up morally and spiritually with the advance of science and industry. Not only is the business and political world disturbed but the disturbance has reached into the homes, the schools, the churches, and is shaking the very foundations of the whole moral and spiritual structure of civilization. Prevailing religious beliefs, social theories, established institutions are being re-examined and re-evaluated in the light of the present social crisis.
Presumptuous as it may seem, no people in the world feel more keenly the seriousness of the present situation than do the Latter-day Saints. They have always felt a keen sense of social responsibility due to their faith that Mormonism has a message that will save humanity, socially and spiritually.
One of America's outstanding thinkers defines civilization as "* * * the effort progressively to embody in institutions, laws, customs, and ideals all human values in just proportion."¹ Assuming this to be an adequate statement of the meaning of civilization we may ask, To what extent does Mormonism conform to these standards? (1) Is it progressive? (2) Does it conserve its achievements? (3) Does it recognize in just proportion all moral human interests?
In comparison with the great world movements, Mormonism is yet young. Before its contributions can be fully evaluated it should, of course, have a history covering many centuries. It would not be for the present generation to make a final evaluation. But the practical demands of life, however, do not permit such indefinite postponement. If civilization is to endure each generation must carry its own responsibility and each must decide upon the merits of its own institutions. This generation is therefore compelled to evaluate Mormonism in terms of its contribution to civilization here and now. It must be judged on the basis of its capacity to solve current human problems.
IN retrospect Mormonism has, in proportion to its numbers and its relatively short history, made remarkable achievements. Its people have surmounted obstacles of tremendous material and social significance. The secret of their success has been in their adherence to the three fundamental principles above mentioned. They have been progressive in spirit and in action. They have economized efforts by conserving all their achievements. They have neglected no fundamental human interest.
In the Ninth Article of Faith the progressive spirit of Mormonism is definitely expressed: "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God." Also the Thirteenth Article stresses the principle of open-mindedness, very essential to progress: "* * * if there is anything virtuous, lovely or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things."
In actual history the Latter-day Saints have carried these principles into effect. No thoughtful person can well deny the creative character of the Latter-day Saint community during the days of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young. These great spiritual leaders launched the movement, not as a church merely but as a great community building program. In fact, Mormonism is more than a church or a body of religious doctrine. It is a way of life unto salvation, in its broadest and most practical sense. Its message came to the world as a spiritual call to come out of Babylon, to cast off meaningless rituals and sectarian creeds. It came as a divine call to build a righteous community—a Zion, the Kingdom of God. There was in this new movement no asceticism, no condemnation of things bodily, earthly or material, so characteristic of medieval Christian traditions. Mormonism embraced all normal interests, material, economic, family, recreation, citizenship, all of which were transformed into a unified spiritual order.
513
Mormonism does not disparage human impulses, but rather gives opportunity for their expression and development into a full and complete personality—perfect manhood and womanhood. It coordinates all individual interests into a harmonious, practical working community. The history of Mormonism gives numerous evidences of the practical application of its comprehensive program and creative spirit. Thriving communities were built in Ohio, Missouri, Illinois and in the Rocky Mountain Region. This story of cooperative community building is an eloquent expression of the vitality of the religious spirit when embodied in practical living.
Mormonism has been conservative as well as creative. It has embodied its achievements in well-established institutions. New movements have been given stability and permanence by very complete organization. Unlike other religious movements, Mormonism made its scripture as it developed. Its revelations came in response to current social needs. They were there and then written down and have become scripture for the generations that follow. Also the finer group sentiments were embodied in church hymns and thereby were guaranteed permanence. Mormonism has always recognized the fact that if civilization is to endure it must conserve what it has gained.
II.
A SATISFACTORY statement of Mormonism will require also that we observe it in cross-section, and here again its all-embracing character is observed. Every worthy human value is included within its scope. It has developed a distinctive economic and political
514
program, it recognizes the importance of a political program, recreational and aesthetic interests, and family life. In fact, nothing was left out of its social program which in any way enriches and promotes human life. Perhaps no other religious community has been so far-sighted in admitting into its system of spiritual values so many human interests. Even unsympathetic critics admire the Latter-day Saints for their economic achievements, civic enterprise and comprehensive recreational programs and their great educational system. It presents a program for the churches of the world whereby all human values may be vitalized and spiritualized by religion.
In its educational program Mormonism gives due emphasis to health values. The Word of Wisdom is at its very foundation. The body is the tabernacle of the spirit and must be kept clean and strong. Thus taboos are placed on liquor, tobacco and stimulants of every kind. It has advised that meats be used sparingly. We may add here that since the Word of Wisdom was given, science and the medical arts have given support to its fundamental principles. The Word of Wisdom, however, is not a system of fixed taboos. It is a program of health education and may well include many principles of health which science and medical art may develop. This may well be done without compromising the written word. A spiritual principle is dynamic and growing in character and must not be unduly restricted.
Mormonism also stresses intellectual development in its program of education. It asserts that man cannot be saved in ignorance. He is saved no faster than he gains
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
knowledge. And stronger still is the expression "The glory of God is intelligence." Mormonism commits itself to the ideal of truth for truth's sake. In other words, knowledge is not simply instrumental to lesser values. It is a great ideal. Intelligent men are godlike. Furthermore, Mormonism advocates moral character and religious faith as a fundamental accompaniment to all education. Every line of educational endeavor, according to this ideal, should enrich personality and promote fine religious faith. This faith, however, is not a mere system of beliefs, it is a creative, growing faith, looking for greater possibilities.
In addition to its program of education, Mormonism has given the world a distinct social philosophy. It is broad enough, we have said, to include all human relations in just proportion. The Latter-day Saints have adopted a family life nowhere surpassed in the world. It is a program of unity and love and reaching into eternity. The binding of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the fathers to the children is more than a ceremony, sacred as it may be. It is the recognition that civilization cannot maintain itself unless the home is preserved. Marital infidelity, filial disloyalty are condemned in the severest terms in Latter-day Saint philosophy. The family life is essential to eternal progression, a sacred doctrine in Mormon theology.
Again the Latter-day Saints advocate an economic system in which wealth has its instrumental position in the promotion of all higher values. It condemns in no uncertain terms a life which is devoted to the accumulation of wealth and which at
MORMONISM IN A DISTURBED CIVILIZATION
the same time disregards human rights. This ideal was eloquently presented by our great pioneer, Brigham Young, when he said:
I have looked upon the community of Latter-day Saints in vision and beheld them organized as one great family of heaven, each person performing his several duties in his line of industry, working for the good of the whole more than for individual aggrandizement; and in this I have beheld the most beautiful order that the mind of man can contemplate, and the grandest results for the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God and the spread of righteousness upon the earth.²
The Latter-day Saint is the only religious community that attaches religious importance to America. In the Tenth Article of Faith we read "Zion will be built upon this (the American) continent and Christ will reign personally upon the earth." According to this interpretation America is not simply a land to bless its own inhabitants. It has a mission to carry the message of freedom and liberty to the civilized world. It is the nursery for political ideals and righteous institutions, to be carried forth into the world. With respect to other nations, Mormonism has developed a sympathetic and kindly attitude. Missionaries have delivered the message to the civilized world. Latter-day Saint communities have been materially enriched by the various lines of culture which the returning missionaries and the emigrants carry with them.
Finally, the basis of the whole Mormon social system is its priesthood. Priesthood does not mean autocracy, hierarchy or exclusive rights. It is thoroughly democratic in spirit. Every man in the Church who is worthy may hold the priesthood and thereby be given opportunities and commissions for specific services. Undoubtedly this authority has sometimes been abused. There are among us, as there are in other churches, those who have stressed ecclesiastical authority to the disparagement of intelligence, service and virtue. But in spirit and purpose, the priesthood means service, opportunity, advancement.
515
III.
FROM a history so full of material and spiritual accomplishments and a program so comprehensive in scope one cannot help but anticipate a glorious future for Mormonism. Lest, however, we become unduly confident—confident to the extent that we share no responsibility for its future—it may be well to consider some things that even now hinder its growth. For human beings life is a challenge. It makes no promises and provides no guarantee for continued success, either for the individual or social group. There is, of course, always the faith that God's work will not perish and that He will continue, as He has done in the past, to reward intelligence, good will, faithful and earnest devotion to the cause. The dangers, of course, lie in connection with the human role.
There are two such dangers confronting Mormonism, dangers, too, that confront civilization. They are connected with the two poles—progressiveness, on the one hand and conservatism on the other. In other words, we have in this community, as in every other community, those whose progressiveness passes into radicalism and those whose conservatism leads to reactionaryism. In other words, the two essential elements in civilization may become
516
monstrosities when over-emphasized.
With respect to the first, there are those who are convinced that they have outgrown and passed beyond their social and spiritual heritage. These people are not without ideals and worthy purposes. But they fail to appreciate their Mormon heritage to the extent that they are willing to sever their relationship with it. To be dissatisfied with one's heritage is, of course, to be expected in any progressive community. The new generations are expected to see values not recognized by their fathers. But to find new opportunities for business, social and intellectual expression should not necessitate a complete break with the community which has made their new life possible. Such a lack of appreciation for the social and spiritual soil from which they sprang may be compared to the foal that kicks its mother after draining her dry. These men and women can ill afford to lose the sympathetic touch and inspiration which Mormonism affords. And, may I add, Mormonism cannot well afford to lose them.
At the other pole there is a group that hinders progress by their reactionary tendencies. They have stressed the conservative elements to the neglect of progressive principle. They are engaged constantly in magnifying past achievements and contemplating eternally the marvelous institutions of Mormonism. They are looking backward and if we mistake not, it will happen to them as it happened to Lot's wife—they may turn to pillars of salt. Mormonism is in essence a growing concern. Its past and its established institutions are to be used to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
meet the problems of the present. The family ideals, the sanctity of the home were never intended as a mysterious unity but as a practical working social unit, a nursery of human personality. The economic institutions which so effectively developed in the past are not to be regarded as complete. The principles which they express are eternal but their methods are temporary. The United Order, for example, cannot be re-established as it was in Missouri and Utah in early Pioneer days. Industry has become too large and too complex to permit the operation of these simple, primitive methods. But the spirit and meaning of stewardship is as sound and true today as it ever was and is needed as it never was needed before. And so we may conclude, every institution of Mormonism may be conserved as an instrument to meet the new demands of civilization. But they are to be conserved, not as rigidly established instruments but as tools, to be constantly reconstructed and shaped to meet the new demands of life.
The social possibilities of Mormonism are glorious to contemplate. They present marvelous opportunities for social service in our greatly perplexed world. But they stand as possibilities merely. Their actuality will depend upon the will, intelligent and spiritual purpose of the generations as they come and go. Mormonism has enhanced modern civilization. That Mormonism will continue to create, enrich and conserve the values of civilization is the deepest faith of those who now carry on.