VOL. XIX SEPTEMBER, 1932 No. 9 EDITORIAL Cultivate the Power to Enjoy Beauty ANY have good organs of M vision and of hearing, and yet are blind to the beauties and are deaf to the harmonies about them. Several years ago I was in Garfield County when a man at the place where I was staying, said, "I understand you are going to visit Bryce Canyon on your way home. I used to herd cows over that country; people talk so much about the marvelous beauty of the place, but I never saw anything wonderful there. Sometime I am going back; I wonder if I can see it."" He had eyes, yet he saw not. An artist had painted a beautiful picture, and the colors on the canvas were gorgeous. One looking at it said, "I never saw those colors in that place you have painted." And the artist said, "Don't you wish you could?" "The enjoyment of beauty is worth cultivating. It makes a difference. To look at the face of nature with keener 'attentiveness, and so with increasing appreciation, is to have within our reach a kind of unbought satisfaction which is beyond all value of money or of merchandise." Open your mind and look, listen, and watch for something that will give enjoyment. Look at the trees, the green fields, the light on the mountain, sunrise and sunset, moonlight. Continue to look until their message of beauty has found lodgment in your soul. Stevenson said: "If I have faltered more or less In my great task of happiness, If I have moved. Among my race And shown no glorious morning face, If beams from happy human eyes Have moved me not; if morning skies Books and my food and summer rain Knocked on my sullen heart in vain, EDITORIAL Lord, thy most pointed pleasure take And stab my spirit wide awake." Walter Russell Bowie says: "Enjoying our world does not depend only upon the alertness of our senses. It depends also upon the capacity of our minds to offer such congenial harborage that the new sensation, when it comes, will come to stay. This means that we can enjoy things more, the more we know about them. Simply to be able to call the elements of beauty by their right names helps us to relive them. Intellectually to grasp an object of enjoyment is ito possess it more securely. We take more pleasure in the stars if we know their names. We listen better to birds if we can distinguish them. We hear-a symphony with deeper absorption if we know something of its harmonies. Moreover, a widening knowledge not only may accentuate an impression we already have, but may make us sensitive to other impressions which else would never have registered at all." 545 The real value of life must come out of jts qualities. During the World War a lady kept part of her ground for flowers. One day a general of the army was received at her home. She apologized because she had not given the flower space to potatoes, carrots and cabbage, as was the custom everywhere, in' those days. He replied, "Oh no, you must not apologize. This is the time when we need beauty more than we need anything else." The soul hungers for lovely things. Florence Nightingale, when desperately ill with fever in Crimea, said she was wooed back to convalescence by the sight of a rose. "Something deep within the spirit goes unsatisfied unless it can go from time to time and bathe itself in that atmosphere which breathes from lovely things." | Life always needs beauty. It is all about us if we will open our eyes to see it and our ears to appreciate it.