DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	A few weeks ago returning from a trip up
one of our beautiful canyons the thought
occured to me, that a description of it even in
my weak way might prove interesting to 
you. 
[Column 2]
	While sitting by the camp-fire or taking
lonely strolls farther up the mountain road,
my thoughts would most invariably turn to
you, and a sigh of regret would come from
the heart that you were not with me to enjoy
all the beautiful grandeur, spread out before
me.  Words would be inadequate to describe
the splendor on which my eyes feasted turn
which way they would, but the attempt at
description is a pleasure as one in a measure
lives over and enjoys again the scenes that so
truly fascinated them.
	I would sit at camp musing and dreaming
or perhaps taking lonely strolls around the
winding canyon road, now and then a new
place of beauty would burst upon my view, at
such times the words of the poet were recalled
to mind.
	"Ever changing ever new
	  When will the landscape tire the view"
	During one of these strolls, I was suddenly
confronted with a scene so glorious and grand
that I do not think it will be easily blotted out
of my memory. In where there seemed to be
an opening between mountains was a large
dense grove of pine trees tall and stately, not
one dwarf pine could be seen. Underneath
there was a beautiful carpet of grass, not a
bush or stick to mar its rich smoothness. The
last rays of the setting sun cast just enough of
its radiance to lighten the border making the
depth within look all the more grand and
solemn. I stood for sometime entranced every-
thing seemed too grand and gloriously beauti-
ful to be real, I felt like pinching myself to
discover if all were a reality or was it only a
dream. However I retraced my steps to camp
with feelings of the most solemn and mysterious
nature.
	After sitting and chatting in the midst of a
merry group in front of which the camp-fire
shed its bright rays, a brisk canyon breeze
began to make itself felt, and my mind wan-
dered back to the old pine forest and a strong
desire took possession of me to return, which as
soon as practicable was acted upon and I again
found myself upon the spot that had so
strangely interested me
	If the scene was beautiful at sunset it was
doubly so by moonlight. Oh, dear sister that
one might always have language to express the
pure holy sentiments of the heart an such mo-
ments.
	A wan, pale moon was shedding its spectral
light, which together with the moaning, wailing
aud howling of the wind caused a shudder to
pass over me.
	As I gazed upon this gloomy grand looking
place and listened to the wild weird music,
fascinating, yet awful in its solemn loneliness,
it was with great reluctance that I again re-
traced my steps.
	The walk back proved to be equally fasci-
nating although of another type of beauty.
The pretty sparkling brook running along the
roadside, each bank containing such an in-
numerable variety of sweet wild flowers, the
majestic mountains towering so high above me
formed a scene long to be remembered and im
pressed me with the spirit of awe and solemnity.
We did not tarry long however as it was grow-
ing late.
	The next day we returned home with many
feelings of regret at leaving the many pleasant
places we had become familiar with. 
	But I must say something of our pretty

[Column 3]
Woodland home which is noted for its sweet-
ness and simplicity of its scenery: our little
valley is indeed beautiful. Dame Nature has
donned her exquisite coloring of rich Autumnal
tints.
	Standing on what is called Kamas bench and
looking ou the valley beneath through which
flows the pretty winding Provo river, which can
be seen now and then through an opening of
some brush or trees,the long sweeping meadows
dotted in clusters of fall flowers,the neat comfort
able homes to be seen here and there,all unite to
form a beautiful landscape pleasing to the eye
and gratifying to the lover of nature.
	The citizens of Woodland are industrious
and I believe happy. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies Association and Primary are
progressing. The officers and members of
each association are seemingly united and
working diligently for one purpose that of the
upbuilding of the Church and kingdom of
God.
	Trusting that I have not wearied you by an 
overflow of sentiment and believing in your
intense love of the beautiful in nature,
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel of peace
and Salvation.
