RURAL LETTERS
	No. 2.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	The last Exponent has just dropped from
my hand. there are still a few moments left
me, before I must return to my domestic
duties. I seize my pen vigorously determined
to exchange a few words of kindly greeting
with those dear friends who write for and read
our little paper. For. shall I receive good at
their hand and offer nothing in return?
	I had a pleasant call today from "Zimmri,"
of the Logan Journal. He was a friend of my
father's twenty years ago; for this reason and
because of his intellectual, literary and re-


ligious inclinations, he is an occasional and
welcome visitor in our rural home. He is
also, I believe, the best and most extensive
florist in this settlement. That beautiful
blush rose in the window near which I write,
which fills the air with its delicate and de-
licious perfume, was his offering of friendship
to me today.
	Now I must stop writing, and help my six
year old son to count the paper money he has
clipped from an advertising sheet, and is
puzzling over, unable to decide whether this
is meant for a nickle or a five dollar gold
piece, and if that is a silver quarter or a gold
ten.
	Ah! my sisters, you who have cherubs of
your own, know that their wants must be at-
tended to, their questions answered, their minds
directed, now while they are with us for neglect
of our duties to them, when like clinging vines
they twine around us, looking up to us as all
sufficient to supply their every want, means
sorrow and bitterness of heart for us in the
future, when because of such neglect they will
surely drift away, out of our reach.
	Here is Willie. my "farmer boy;" see how
well he has learned to ride this summer. That
pretty bay horse upon which he sits so gal-
lantly, is a great pet with us. He will let all
the children ride at once, if they can all get
on; and stop perfectly still, if, in their scramb-
ling, one drops off. He likes the buggy too,
and therein my great comfort with him is
taken.
	One morning, I felt quite homesick and
lonesome, when my children struck up a lively
cheering song. I joined in their singing, and
in my heart thanked God for the blessed gift
of song and music, which will chase gloom
away if any thing can.
	Presuming that you have received from the
Secretary, an account of the Woman Suffrage
meeting, lately held at Logan, I will not take
up time or space in writing about it here, ex-
cept to state that I had the pleasure of being
present; and considered the occasion a very
interesting one.
	The district school has opened here with a
very competent Principal, two able assistants,
and I should judge, about one hundred and
fifty children. The weather is fine, and every
one seems to be in the full enjoyment of health
and happiness just at present.
	Crops are generally light in this vicinity, so
I am informed, compared with last year’s.
	Mother objects to the name Smithfield, as it
reminds her of the place known by the same
name in England, where so many religious
martyrs were burned. So, to gratify her feel-
ings, I have agreed to call it, as it used some-
times to be called year’s ago,
	Summit, Cache Valley, September, 1890.
									LULA.


[Column 1]

