NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Julia K. Olmstead, of Aberdeen, S. D.
won a $100 prize offered by the Chicago
Tribune for the closest guess at Chicago’s
population.

	A complete set of woman suffrage tracts
(forty-two different kinds) sent post-paid for
ten cents. Address C. Wilde. Woman’s
Journal Office, Boston Mass.

	Mary Elizabeth Cooley, wife of Judge T. M.
Cooley, of the Inter-State Commerce Commis-
sion, died in Ann Arbor recently. Mrs. Cooley
was sixty years of age, and had lived in Ann
Arbor for more than thirty years. She was a
noted philanthropist, and was president of the
board of managers of the State Iudustrial
School for girls, at Adrian, Mich., which posi-
tion she was appointed to by ex-Gov. Jerome,
and has held since.

	The friends of the late Julia Thomas have
expressed the desire for her writings so
frequently that steps have been taken to issue
them in a convenient and reliable style. Her
articles entitled: “Needs of the Girl,” Am I
My Brother’s Keeper?” “Elocution,” “Mormon
Letters” and others, have been issued in
pamphlet form at twenty five cents each, the
six bound in cloth, gilt, $1.00, to be obtained
by addressing the publishers direct, John W.
Lovell Company, or Miss Anne Thomas, 32
West Twenty-sixth street.

	Among the other recent academical triumphs
of English women must be included that of
Miss Ann Frances Piercy, of the London
School of medicine for women. At the inter- 
mediate examination in medicine in the
Uuiversity of London she gained triple first-
class honors, taking first place, with exhibi-
tion and a gold medal in materia medica, and
second place with a gold medal in anatomy.
Miss Piercyalso excelled in physiology, histol-
ogy and was bracketed equal with two male
candidates, for the first class.

	Miss Lydia Emmet, a sister of Mrs Arthur
Sherwood, formerly Miss Rosina Emmet, has
shown much talent in stained-glass work. She
has just finished a memorial window for the
late Dr. Mercer, for many years rector of
Trinity Church, Newark N. J., which is to be
placed in that church. The design is very
simple—a large cross against a somewhat lurid
sky, with the rays of the hidden sun darting
from behind a cloud and irradiating the cross,
the idea being to represent allegorically the
mystery and hope of the resurrection. The
coloring is exceedingly soft and harmonious,
and the management of the glass shows re-
markable skill. Miss Emmet is still a young
girl, and this work is one of much promise.


