THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF 
		WOMEN.
	AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
	[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]

	In the good old days of mince pies and plum
puddings, our great grandmothers lived, round,
plump, rosy cheeked girls, very models of neat-
ness and masters of domestic economy. But
it is safe to say that not more than one in ten
ever received an education higher than the
commonest of common schools afforded. Hence
it was but natural that to them the most im-
portant accomplishments necessary for their
daughters to enter the matrimonial state were
a knowledge of bread making, a pillow case
full of stockings, and a stack of quilts as high
as their heads. Happy, indeed, were they if
their sons could enjoy the advantage of a
liberal education; but aside from the reader,
the speller and the arithmetic, about the only
text books for the daughters were the knead-
ing board, the wash tub, the churn and the
needle. Mothers of that day could most
heartily join with Lucile in saying:

"We may live without music, poetry and art, 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart;
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized men cannot live without cooks."

	But one extreme is likely to follow another.
Slowly women began to awaken to the fact,
and men were forced to admit, that they are
the possessors of minds capable of the highest
culture, and that without such culture, when
it is possible, they cannot fully meet the high
purposes of God in their existence. Strange
that it should have taken the world five thou-
sand and eight hundred years to come to such
a conclusion, nevertheless it is true.
	In the early part of this century, as early as
1804, an academy for young ladies was opened
in Salem, N. C., and from that time institu-
tions of like grade multiplied quite rapidly. It
was not however, until about 1857 that there
was a college proper for them, and then, as it
seems, more in name than in reality. Strictly
speaking, the work of higher education for wo-
men, and co-education of the sexes, did not be-
gin until about twenty-five years ago. Before
that but few of the colleges for men would
admit them; but so rapidly did these new ideas
take root and grow in this free American soil,
that in these few years, a goodly number of
colleges expressly for women have sprung up
while according to the statistics of '87 and '88,
out of the 357 colleges of our land, 237 now
admit women, among which is Harvard, the
oldest center of intellectual life in our country,
while Yale and Columbia follow on. Further-
more, they are admitted to not a few of the
schools of medicine and law.
	The all-absorbing ambition of the enlight-
ened mother now is to have her daughter well
educated, able to converse learnedly and 
fluently on any subject, and, perchance, able to
advocate the various reforms of the day with
voice and pen. Her lily-white fingers must
run with utmost grace and elasticity up and
down the key board, and both time and means
are given her that she may acquire the art of
bringing forth things beautiful with paint and
varnish, silk and worsted. To accomplish all
this, however, it too often happens that the
fond mother forgets that she is the possessor
of a physical organism which for her highest
well-being must be kept in equipoise with mind
and soul. Forgets that the highest calling of
God to her may be to direct the affairs of a
home, and so she is spared what seems to her
the drudgery of the kitchen and the hum-drum
routine of the housekeeper. With such a one-
sided training as this, we must not wonder if

[column 2]

the exclamation falls from grandma's lips as
she sits down in her grand-daughter's unkept
kitchen. "La me! what will become of the
next generation!" But this mistake has by no
means always been made, nor is it likely to be
made, but seldom, with the advanced steps that
are being taken by educators in the introduc-
tion of manual and industrial training, not
only into our higher institutions, but into many
of our public schools, which is sure to develop
in a well-grounded education. We may now 
hope for the symmetrically developed woman,
a woman not only of cultivated mind, broader
views, and refined tastes, but one whose fingers
are skillful in the preparation of wholesome
food and proper clothing, and whose con-
science is deepened concerning the highest
well-being of the physical as the necessary con-
comitant of the highest well-being of the mental
and the spiritual.
	To-day we gather to witness the dedication
of these wisely planned and generously
equipped buildings and grounds to Utah's sons
and daughters. Thank God that the religion
which our fore-fathers brought with them
across the stormy Atlantic, was one which did
then and does still, thrive best under that
clear light of education; and that we have a 
government, the child of such noble sentiments
which will with generous hand plant these in-
stitutions up and down the length and breadth
of these United States. A government that
recognizes that its strength is not in ignorance
however well sheltered with costly and beauti-
ful cathedrals, mosques, and temples; but in
the highest education possible of its masses.
	I rejoice to say that here no hair-breadth
distinctions will be made between the sexes.
Here the young lady may enter side by side
with her brother,and if sufficient mental power
be hers, she may keep by his side, or go ahead
if she can. Here with him she may unravel
the mysteries of nature in her varied sciences,
which shall be of untold worth in the wise care
of body and home. Here she may search the
unchanging truths of mathematics and logic
which shall give her accurateness, clearness,
and force of thought and expression. Here
she may acquire both the living and the dead
languages, and by reading their varied litera-
tures enrich and beautify her mother tongue.
Here she may travel with the historian in all
ages and and climes, be introduced to the
world of today and yesterday, and gather facts
from its successes and failures that shall make
her wise in shunning the evil, and in choosing
the good. Here she may acquire that knowl-
edge of music and art, that shall cultivate her
ear for harmony, and her taste for the beauti-
ful—an ear and a taste with which God has so
richly endowed us all. And here, too, she
may come to know the various powers and
faculties of her immortal nature, her soul, and
read clearly her duty to God and man in the
studies of psychology and moral philosophy.
To her no door is shut that is opened to her
brother, unless it be that door that leads him
into the practical application of his learning in
the many trades and professions which woman
by nature, is not fitted to enter. On the other
hand, however, a door is opened to her that is
not to him; one that leads to the practical ap-
plication of her learning in those occupations
best suited to women. In one corner of this
spacious building is a room which is to be set
apart expressly for young ladies to learn the
art of cooking. Let us hope that in the years
to come, as such departments in our colleges
and universities increase, we shall have less
call for patent nostrums to allay the horrors
of dyspepsia. There will also be another room
devoted to learning how to cut and sew so that
our educated young lady shall not be depend-
ent on the seamstress. In short house-keep-
ing in all its details will be ably taught by
one who has given these things special atten-


B. Anthony when it seemed as though she must
give up but she did not.
	Pres.S.M.Kimball referred to the great World’s
Fair. Queen Isabella is to have a monument,
Susan B. Anthony to have a bust, at the Inter-
national Convention. We ought to have a voice
in that Convention, ought to have some-
thing worth saying, and will have if we give it
proper attention.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards read a poem by E. H.
Woodmansee, “Simple Justice Woman’s Right.”
	Mrs. Boyer from  Springville, made a speech,
referred to Wyoming’s having lately entered the
Union with woman suffrage. Also to Queen
Victoria’s successful reign.
	“That all woman do not wish to vote is nothing
against their having the privilege, neither do all
men vote. The suffrage work is doing well in
Springville.”	
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh spoke on human
rights. For forty-six years she had advocated
woman’s rights; had traveled much; found some
men who want slaves, not wives, not companions,
not helpmates. In some men there are broader
and more noble feelings. We must educate our
young men and bring them up to a higher
standard of manhood and womanhood.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clarke Pres. W. S. A. of Davis
Co., reported that they had but recently organized
and the movement there was yet in its incipiency.
	Meeting adjourned till April next 1891, date to
be published hereafter.


