AUTUMNAL MUSINGS.

In the soft September gloaming,
All my fancies set to roaming,
	Over hill and dale and mountain;
And	 I felt the mellowed splendor,
Of the twilight faint and tender,
	And I heard the rippling fountain,
With the music of its measure,
As it leaped and sung for pleasure,
	Filling all the air with gladness;
And its songs from tuneful voices,
Songs in which the world rejoices,
	Soothed my soul with tearful sadness.
In my garden full of sweetness;	
At the evening’s rich completeness,
	While the stars their watch were keeping;
Came the muse of which afore time,
I had dreamed throughout the nightime,
	And she found me pale and weeping.
In a dainty, plaintive fashion,
Breathing forth both love and passion,
	Came this fairy-footed maiden,— 
Sweeping 'cross the starlit meadow,
Gray and quiet, as a shadow
	Yet with human hopes o'erladen.
And the Autumn boughs were sighing,
And the scarlet leaves were dying,
	Like lost hopes, which they betoken.
Oh, ye fragrant buds and blossoms,
Gathered closely to our bosoms !
	Here ye lie, all crushed and broken.
And we know not if the morrow
Shall bring promis’d joy or sorrow
	For the love that's past revealing;
That lies quiv’ring, aching, sobbing,
Every nerve and pulse, keen throbbing,
	And its bitterness concealing.
Quoth the muse. Love never faileth,
Though the human heart bewaileth
	Idols broken, fragments scattered!
They were only true in seeming,
And ye worshipped them while dreaming,
	But on waking,find them shattered.
Still the memory of those hours,
That we passed in Eden’s bowers,
	When our hearts and hopes were lightest,—
Are around our pathway clinging, 
And a thousand voices singing
	Of the promises grown brightest.
The delicious days of Autumn,
With the winds, so weird and solemn,
	Bring the fondest recollections;
Of the music which was sweetest, 
Of the happiness completest,
	And the tenderest affections.
The harpstrings may be shattered,
And the rose-leaves may be scatter'd
	But the mem’ry still remaineth;
And the love that we have cheris'd,
And the hope that we have nourish’d
	The immortal soul retaineth.
E. B. W.


