THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHESY.

	II. Peter 1 Ch. 20 vr. "knowing this first
that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any
private interpretation."
	21 vr. "For the prophecy came not in old
time by the will of man; but holy men of God
spake as they were moved upon by the Holy
Ghost."
	I was led to write on this subject, by hear-
ing one express his views as not being a be-
liever in anything that been predicted having
come to pass; said he, there might have been
such a man as Christ and what He said was
not very definite; he also alluded to Bible
prophecy said there were no dates given to lead
one to suppose that things came to pass; but
that they happened promiscuously.
	There is no subject of so much interest to
me as the fulfillment of prophecy. And it
surely must be, to all those, who believe in
Sacred history, that is the word of God, and

[Column 2]
written by revelation. The Savior said when
He answered His disciples concerning those
things which should take place, that He told
them about at jerusalem, His language was
plain and definite, that the City should be
destroyed and the Temple; not one stone should
be left on another, and the Jews should be
scattered among all nations, and they should
see Him no more, until they should say
"blessed is He that cometh in the name of the
Lord." All these things took place as He
said; then He spoke of His coming and gave
them the signs; that nation should rise against
nation, and kingdom against kingdom; men's
hearts should fail them; this would come as a
snare on them that dwell on the earth. This
prediction is yet to take place. "Heaven and
earth shall pass away; but My words shall not
pass away."
	There never was a truer fulfillment of
prophecy than was spoken to the Jewish
nation, and also to the Israelites, every word
spoken to them of the Lord by His prophets
was literally fulfilled. Everything that was
predicted of the Savior before His birth was
fulfilled to the very letter. But of His second
coming which has not taken place, He does
not given the day nor the hour, but the earth
will not stand in its present state only 6,000
years, at the beginning of the 7,000 a great
change will come, there will be a millennial
rest for the people of God, and Christ will
dwell on the earth and it will be like the
garden of Eden; all will be at peace. "The
lamb and the lion will lie down together; and
nothing shall hurt nor destroy in all My holy
mountain saith the Lord." And now con-
cerning the prophecy of a modern prophet
Joseph Smith. Revelation and prophecy given
through Joseph the Seer, on war. Given Dec.
25th, 1832. "Verily, thus saith the Lord con-
cerning the wars that will shortly come to
pass, beginning at the rebellion of South
Carolina, which will eventually terminate in
the death and misery of many souls." 2 vs.
The days will come that war will be poured
out upon all nations beginning at that place."
Section 87. This war actually took place be-
tween the North and South, and as sure as
this took place, the others will among all
nations. The Prophet Joseph said in his
history, "I have asked of the Lord concerning
His coming and while asking the Lord, He
gave me a sign and and said, 'In the days of
Noah I set a bow in the heavens as a sign
and token that in any year that the bow should
be seen the Lord would not come; but there
should be seed time and harvest during that
year, but whenever you see the bow withdrawn
it shall be a token that there shall be famine,
pestilence, and great distress among the
nations, and that the coming of the Messiah is
not far distant. This is one sign of the
heavens given to a modern prophet that we
may note. I know many things he uttered
that have come to pass and many more that
will, because they were the Lord's words and
I bear my testimony that he was a true prophet
of the Lord, and was called by Him to pro-
claim the Gospel of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Sept. 22, Salt Lake City.


Miss Amye Reade's novel, "Ruby," is
already in its tenth thousand. Among those
who have expressed approval and admiration
of the book are Lord Tennyson and Cardinal
Manning.

	Mrs. Willing says, a propos of the discussion
on the admission of women to the Methodist
General Conference: "Miriam was in the
General Conference of God's Church, for it is
said: "He led the people forth by Moses,Aaron,
and Miriam.'"


