THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS, 
	
	The Association for the Advancment of
Women will hold its eighteenth annual 
congress in Toronto, Canada,on the 15th, 16th
and 17th of October, by invitation of the 
Mayor and City Council. Executive sessions
at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
At evening sessions an admittance fee of 
twenty-five cents will be charged. A con-
ference of officers only will be held on Oct. 14,
at 7.30 p. m.
	Toronto is preparing a royal welcome for
the Woman's Congress. On the 20th ult:, a
number of ladies and gentlemen met in the
Council Chamber at the City Hall to arrange
for its reception. A large executive committee
was appointed to take charge of the arrange-
ments. Special committees were appointed on 
reception, on hotels and billeting, on rooms 
and decorations, on the press, on finance and
on railroads. The Toronto Mail says:
	"From the deep interest manifested by those present
concerning the object of the meeting, there is no doubt
that the coming of the association and the discussions to
take place will be the leading event of the fall's gather-
ings this year in the city."
	The topics and speakers for this year will be
as follows:

	"Woman in the State,"
					Miss Mary F. Eastman, Mass.
	"Practical Value of Philosophy,"
			Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Rhode Island.
	"Working Girls' Club.
				Mrs. Helen Campbell, New Jersey.
	"More Pedagogy in Universities and Normal Schools,"
					Mrs. Mary E. Bundy, Illinois.
	"The Gain and Loss to America of Protracted Art
Study Abroad,"
				Miss Sarah Wool Moore, Nebraska.
"The Scientific Work and Influence of Dr. Maria
		Mitchell,"
					Prof. Mary W. Whiting N. Y.
"Woman and the Forum,"
				Mrs. Martha Strickland, Michigan.
"Special Legislation or Moral Energy,"
				Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells, Mass.
"Women in Ancient Egypt,"
	Miss Georgia Louise Leonard, Washington D. C.
"Scientific Training for Mothers"
				Mrs. Frances Fisher Wood Mass.
"Study of American History,"
					Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods, Mass.
"The Colored Women of the South"'
		Mrs. Elizabeth H. Botume; South Carolina.
"A Paper on Ibsen's Plays,"
					Mrs. Ellen M. Mitchell, Colorado. 
	This is the first time the A. A. W. has
held its annual meeting outside the limits of
the United States. It promises to be a very
interesting and pleasant occassion.


The Woman’s Club of Leipsic lately held
an elaborate celebration on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of its formation.


