LETTER FROM A FRIEND.

Olio, New Mexico,
					Sept. 27, 1890.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have not forgotten you and the promise to
write now and then, yet I find on reflection that
months have passed since my last effort to collect
a few scattered ideas for “Our Paper.’' I believe
the few sisters of this place are still working in
good faith trying to keep alive to the spirit of the
times, but it is an uphill road where there is so
little material to work with.
	Our Society had a pleasant reunion on the 12 of
July and a few of the leading brethren and sisters
of the Stake came to visit and attend the meet-
ings. The Primary also held their annual meet-
ing, and I understand all had a time of enjoyment-
I was very sick at the time but had the privilege
of seeing the brethren and sisters at my home
which was a great blessing to me. While being
administered to the second day of my illness I
was caused very peculiar feelings by the strange
prayer that was offered, the burden of it seemed
that I must exercise great patience as well a
aith if I wished to recover. At the time I could


not understand, yet there was a feeling of dread
came over me but how fully I learned its mean-
ing in the weeks of suffering that followed, and I
learned in that time of trial to plead for patience
more than in all my life before. The  "other
shore" seemed right within my reach, and oh, how
sweet to go, but the sad cries of my children
would ring in my ears and my duty to them made
me cling to life and beg of my Father to spare
mine, if it could be His will and I can testify to
God's great goodness and mercy and it is only
through this that my little ones have a mother.
I am still weak and with a terrible disease prey-
ing upon my system, the future on earth looks
shadowy and I can only pray that I may be
worthy to enjoy the home prepared for the faithful
and true when the end shall come. My heart is
lonely indeed since the death of my frail baby
Tillie. She died of heart disease the 1st of Sept.
aged 11 months and 6 days and though I bow to
God's will and feel to thank Him that my
darling no longer suffers, her place will be
vacant in heart and home until she is laid within
my arms again. God bless you dear sister and
all our noble women in Zion, is the prayer of,
