AUNT LU’S STORY.

	And now I must tell you something of the
Alby’s,—of Robert’s parents, who started their
life soon after their marriage in a log-cabin of
two rooms in the back woods of Maine (New 
England) a small settlement of lumber-men,
woodchoppers, hunters, fishermen etc. In this 
place all their six children were born, and
from it, four of them, who had only walked a
little way in earth-life, were transported into a
higher school in spirit realms, Lois, their re-
maining daughter developed into beautiful
womanhood, married at the age of nineteen,
shortly before her father's death, and removed
with her husband (an excellent worthy man
of high position and wealth, who made all the
gifts bestowed so bountifully upon him a 
blessing  to others,) to Augusta the Capital of
the state. Previous to the event of their
daughter’s marriage Mr. Alby had become a
wealthy prosperous lumber-merchant, had built
a large commodious house with the expecta-
tion of living in easy comfort to a good old
age, but death came (when but a little past
middle life) swift and sudden in a red bolt of
flame from heaven, leaving hearts wounded
and torn with grief, to receive a fresh anoint-
ing for a future blessing.
	Robert the only son, possessed a deep earnest
nature, and a wild love of adventure; he mani-
fested this characteristic in early life by fre-
quent escapades from school, the common rou-
tine of which had few attractions for him al-
though quick to learn, and never dull; his
good humor and qualities of heart made him a
favorite with teachers and comrades. Nothing
delighted him so much when a small lad, as to be
allowed to go with his father on a hunting or
fishing excursion, and listen to wonderful tales 
of hair-breadth escapes from wild beasts,
Indians, &c., and long before he was in his
'teens, he had inwardly resolved to lead a back
wood’s life, and like the little boy who planted
his feet in the earth to grow tall he tried to
harden and accustom himself to such a life,
looking daily forward for the happy time when


[Column 1]
﻿he could go forth armed and equipped as
hunter and trapper. He would often refuse
food when hungry and go an entire day with-
out, sleeping on the hard barn floor, on logs or
rocks and a favorite place was on a mossy rock
back of their cattle shed.—Thus he became a
perfect enigma, a puzzle hard to solve or de-
fine, by either his own family or others, while
to his comrades, he was a perfect Nimrod, and
after an event, by witich he saved the life of
one of them, by shooting a catamount as it
sprang down upon him from a high ledge of
rock, he was by universal consent crowned a
veritable hero! the story oft repeated, with
thrilling variations, won for him quite a local
fame.
	Robert was blest with a sound elastic consti-
tution, patient and cheerful under privation,
indefatigable in research and indomitable in
endurance, overflowing with energy and en-
thusiasm. It was very easy for him to persuade
his mother to sell the homestead and other
property, put it into money and go with him
to the "Far West,” to find his beloved
ideal of a hunting ground.
	Indeed, I do not think it would have been
a hard matter for him to have prevailed upon
her to go with him into the uttermost parts of
the earth; so exceedingly great was her love
and faith in this her only son. But Robert
was too considerate to take his mother into an
entire wilderness of country. It was therefore
arranged after a visit to Augusta through the
winter, to go on together to a town near the
Mississippi River where she could be sur-
rounded by home comforts, and at a convenient
distance for him to come to see her sometimes,
until he had a suitable place of abode prepared
for her. It was three years before Robert felt
justified in removing his much loved mother to
this new home in the wilderness, fifteen miles
to the nearest trading post, and until about
that time, forty miles to U. S. P. O.
	The Scotchman who went from Maine, with
them, took a claim of Government land ad-
joining Robert’s and erected his cabin as near
as possible to be neighbors, as well as for pro-
tection against invaders etc. Mrs. Douglas also re
mained at the same place with Robert’s mother,
these men with their colored servants were all
the inhabitants of the place while preparing for
the dear ones waiting.
	Now it came to pass while they were tarrying
in anticipation of a home in the wildnerness
(in the then "Far West) that they were both
invited to attend a religious meeting to be held
at the house of a relative by whom they re-
ceived the invitation to attend. Mrs. Alby
accepted the invitation joyfully without any
curiosity regarding sect or creed, she was raised
in a Christian home and dedicated to the Lord
in infancy by her parents, and although her
privileges had been few for attending religious
worship, during her early married life, she had
sought to live the life of a true follower of
Christ, the Savior of mankind; not so with
Mrs. Douglas, "she was a staunch Presbyterian
and must be informed of the denominational
name.” She therefore declined the invitation
as the name of the sect was not given.
	The meeting proved to be very inspiring;
new ideas of ancient prophecy and of Latter-
day glory were opened up before the minds of
the hearers, and many hearts were stirred with-
in them to seek and learn more of this new
doctrine, and among them none were more in-
terested than Mrs. Alby. At the close of the
meeting notice was given that on Christmas
day a sermon would be preached (and other
services held) at an appointed place at which
two Elders (mentioned) would be present; on
the evening previous a friend was sent to warn
them that several opposers had plotted to dis
turb the proposed meeting, to injure these
preachers and perhaps take their lives. For
a few moments they knelt in silent prayer, then

[Column 2]
thanking their friend for so kindly warning
them they assured him that they could not,
and dare not withdraw from their engagement
to preach on the morrow. "We are impressed,”
said they, "that our Lord has some wonderful
work to perform by this means, and though
Satan is abroad stirring up the hearts of the
people against it, we will not shrink from
danger, for He, whom we serve will preserve
us, if it is for His honor and glory.” They
then bade their friend, to be of good cheer,
saying, "we will go in the name of the Most
High, expecting His presence and blessing.”
	The sermon was preached at the appointed
time and place, several were filled with the
spirit of prophecy, many spoke in tongues, and
one hymn was sung by a young woman in a
voice of angelic sweetness and purity, when to
the astonishment of all, who knew Mrs. Alby,
she arose, her face radiant and shining with
exceeding brightness, and interpreted both the
language spoken and sung, in such a manner
as to show forth the power of the living God.
Would that I could give from memory all the
words as interpreted,and convey to your minds
the beautiful pictured scene given by one, and
interpreted by Mrs. Alby, of over eighteen
hundred years ago, when a company of
shepherds’ were "keeping the silent watches of
the night on the plains of Palestine.” When
startled by a celestial glory that shone round
and about them, they looked up in wonder and
amazement and saw a bright and glorious
angel poised on golden pinions and heard the
announcement that the Messiah had come.
And suddenly the brightness of the glory was
increased and the heavenly effulgence dazzled
mortal vision, while a multitude of the angelic
host, the choir of the great Church above, with
songs of praise to the Omnipotent Jehovah
accompanied by the melody, swelled, vibrated
and rolled on and on, through the vast cathe-
dral of the boundless Universe.
	Another spoke of "the mystery of heaven”
of its joy and freedom from all evil. All the
services were trebly calculated to strike
profoundest awe into the human mind, and to
teach man his littleness as in the presence of
Jehovah, the great “I Am!” Most joyfully
some, and thoughtfully all dispersed while the
Elders went their lodgings where a sumptous
Christmas dinner was prepared  and where a
young couple were in waiting to have the
marriage ceremony performed. All passed off
quietly and pleasantly, many saying "This is
the happiest Christmas day they ever knew,”
when suddenly they were startled by a knock
at the front door; they thought in their hearts,
“enemies have come;” reluctantly the door was
opened by a man in attendance, there stood
two tall, broad-shouldered, muscular  men
muffled so that only a small portion of their
faces could be seen. They said “we wish to
see the Elders” their voices were recognized by
several of the household. The bride who had
just been united (to the man of her choice was
a niece of one of them, and both were well
aware of his hatred of the “Mormons” and of
his bitter opposition to their union; they
trembled with fear and alarm at the sound of
his voice, but were soon happily assured as
advancing forward they said,“we have not come
to disturb any one,” they then took from under
their coats the missives which they had secreted
upon thpir persons and with which, as they
said to the Elders, “we had intended to have
finished your preaching.” One carried a large
hickory club and heavy stone, the other a large
knife and murderous looking pistol. “Yes
said they, we had planned to destroy you, and
take the consequences when we went to the
meeting, but you talked as if you knew all
about it, and your words were so strange, we
felt as though you were looking through us,
and that an Almighty power was in that place.”
Both held out their hands to the Elders, say-

[Column 3]
ing, "O, sirs! forgive us, and may God in
mercy forgive, for in our blind rage we had
forgotten Him, or that He would hold us ac-
countable, we now believe that you are true
men, servants of God, and not imposters as we
had thought.” They clasped hands with heart-
felt emotion and sincere forgiveness and assur-
ance of God’s forgiving mercy to the penitent.
Then for a few moments (by request of the
Elders,) all present,knelt in prayer, from which
these men arose subdued and humbled, both
acknowledging "that it was the first time that
they had knelt in prayer since they were
children, and taught to say the Lord’s prayer
at their mother’s knee, and repeat little prayers
in verse, nor had they for a score of years at-
tended any religious worship and all this time
had been scoffers and unbelievers in all things
Divine.”


