OBITUARIES
	Died at Payson, Utah Co., April 6th 1890, o. consump-
tion, Elizabeth Powell aged 68 years and 6 months. Sister
Powell was born in South Wales, and was baptized by
Elder Jas. W. Huish into the Church in 1850, and emi-
grated to Utah in the first company of handcarts in 1856.
She leaves 5 daughters and 2 sons, 54 grand children and
5 great grand children.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Powell adopted by the
Relief Society of the 1st District of Payson Ward.


Whereas in the providence of God she has been called
from this stage of existence to a higher sphere we bow in 
reverence to the wiil of Him who doeth all things well; she
died in full faith of the Gospel and was a useful member of
the Relief Society.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society Record, and a copy be presented to the bereaved
family pnd printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SARAH A. REECE.
						HANNAH WRIDE,
						FANNY SARGENT,
									Committe.
	Died at Union Salt Lake Co. U. T., Sister Kerstie Per-
son Swenson, on Aug. 31, 1890, of inflammation of the
bowels. Born May, 31, 1830, at Malmo, Skeine County
Sweden, emigrated to Utah in 1881. She leaves a kind
husband and two devoted children to mourn her loss and a
host of friends; all that kind hands and loving hearts could
do was done. She was an active teacher and a faithful
member of the Relief Society of this ward. A very large
audience assembled at her funeral and many of the speakers
were those who had shared the hospitality of her home in
Sweden.
	Whereas it being the will of our Heavenly Father to call
onr beloved sister home we feel that our loss is her gain,
and be it
	Resolved,that we the officers and members of this Society
condole with the bereaved husband and children and may
we emulate her many noble traits of character. And be it
	Resolved that we have a copy of these minutes on our
record book, also present them to the bereaved husband
and children and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Swedish Herald and Bikuben please copy.
						MARY ANDERSON,
						SARAH BUXTON,
						SARAH A. FORBUSH,
						MARY A. SMART,
									Committee.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
