UTAH TER. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	An Executive Session was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Oct. 3, at 10 a. m. The Hall was
very beautifully decorated for the occasion with
flowers and vines, and the stands were artistically
draped with the National stars and stripes by Dr.
E. S. Barney.
	Pres. S. M. Kimball expressed her pleasure at
seeing so many representative woman present,
and desired the co-operation of all the auxiliary
branches in the selection of officers and in the
transaction of business.
	The expediency of changing the time of hold-
ing the Territorial Annual Convention was dis-
cussed, Emily Richards moved that the time be
changed from January to October the motion was
unanimously carried.
	Utah Co. W. S. A. was reported by Johanna
Patten; Millard Co. by M. A. Y. Greenhalch;
Davis Co. by Lucy A. Clark; Wasatch Co. was
represented by letter, Mrs. S. S. Boyer repre-
sented the Springville branch.
	The officers of the territorial board were re-
elected, Sarah M. Kimball Pres. Emily S.
Richards, 1st. Vice Pres. Ann D. Groesbeck 2nd
Vice Pres. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd Vice Pres. Ada
[Column 2]
Croxall Sec., Julia Taylor Cor. Sec.; Treasurer
Margie Dwyer, Chairman Executive Committee,
Phebe Y. Beatie, members Ex. Com. Nellie Little
and Margaret Mitchell. Pres. Kimball explained
that each auxiliary branch President was by virtue
of her office a member of the Ter. Executive
board and were expected to share in the labors
deliberations and responsibilities of said board.
	The following Publishing Com. were elected
for the ensuing year, Emmeline B. Wells, Lula
Greene Richards, Romania B. Pratt. Nominations
were made for Delegates, other subjects discussed
and the Convention adjourned.

	In the afternoon of Friday Oct. 3, 1890, the W.
S. A. of Utah met in a Ter. Convention. Pres.
S. M. Kimball presiding. Prayer by Mrs. M. I.
Horne. Minutes read and accepted. Treasurer's
report read. The names of the Territorial officers
for the ensuing year as chosen in Executive ses-
sion were presented and voted upon. Pres. S.
M. Kimball gave an address of welcome and
made some suggestive remarks.
	Mrs. E. J. Mc'Farlane addressed the assembly
upon the "Political Rights of Woman."
ADVANTAGES OF POLITICAL EDUCATION FOR
WOMEN.
SUSA Y. GATES.
	Few if any of the ladies here present would
deny that it will be a great advantage to any wo-
man to understand the laws of her own and of
other countries. There are many forms of national
government, but certain broad principles under-
lie them all. This little paper will not deal with
government and its modifications, but treat in an
informal way upon the advantages which will
accrue to the woman who sets herself to master
the study of political economy.
	It is a generally accepted fact that all the knowl-
edge and intelligence we can acquire in this life
will be so much capital to us in our next stage of
existence. If our chief knowledge is embraced
in the fit of a polonaise or the last crochet pattern
we will certainly not expect to take our place be-
side our husband as his equal and his assistant in
the formation and control of kingdoms and
worlds. No, we shall find ourselves obliged to
go down to the foot of some other life class and
re-learn the lessons we might so easily have ob-
tained while in this stage of existence. This is
a serious thought, a grave reflection. No paltry
excuses of expediency, or of too much time being
spent in the daily cares of life will soften, for us,
the unalterable fact that we have neglected the
better part of life, our souls have been absorbed
in the meaner and lesser duties of every day.
Just what can be neglected, just where we may
cut off a few spare moments from the absorbing
worldly tasks is not in the province of this paper
to discuss. Assuming that every woman under
the sound of my voice resolves now, today, that
she will set aside a few moments of each day, an
hour or two each week, to improve her mind, to
enlarge her understanding, and to deepen the
capabilities within her, the question at once
arises, to what study shall those few precious
moments be devoted? Religion? The spare
hours of the peaceful Sabbath day should be all
devoted to sacred and religious studies instead of
to letter writing, or visiting and gossiping. To
science? or to Art? to Music, or to Literature?
All of these have their place, and each woman
should weekly devote a portion of her time to
some one beloved object and study. But every
woman should make an unalterable decision to
gain all the knwledge possible on the grand prin-
ciples of political economy. I am bold to say
that even in this life, two thirds of the govern-
ment of the human race, rests in the hands of the
mothers. How foolish would be the man who
aspired to the Presidental chair and was as yet
ignorant of the form of a Republican nation as
distinguished from a monarchy. Yet few, so very
[Column 3]
few women know aught of government except
old and useless sayings of long ago. One of the
greatest writers of modern times, Herbert Spencer,
wrote at length on the home and the education
of the children therein. One great man when
asked how he controlled so large and so varied
a people as was under his care, replied that he
taught correct principles and they governed them-
selves. What are correct principles? In what way
are they most effectively taught? How much may
the individual do? How far may self-indulgence
go before reaching the boundary line of unbridled
license? Which would be best and most effective
applied to home life, the imperial, the monarchial or
the republican form of government? All these
are questions which come within the province of
political economy, and all of which vitally con-
cern women.
	It is easier, pleasanter, and far more effective to
study in company with others than to toil and
struggle on alone. How fortunate, we will not
here say, inspirationally fortunate for us has been
the organizing of these W. S. A. They are
the right thing in the right time at the right place,
If the many are not prepared for them, have no
time for them, then as ever, the few will come in
and accept the light thus held out for us.
	In this beautiful Territory, it is solely the fault
of woman herself that she is ignorant of the laws
of political economy, is careless of her rights,
heedless of her opportunities. The legislature of
1870 made us equal with our brother, and that
body was subsequently specially careful to include
competent women in committees and on boards
where woman's wisdom would be appreciated.
No man with the spirit of enlightenment in him
will object to his wife uniting herself with this
movement. Indeed those noble men who have
so well earned our esteem and gratitude, the
leaders of this people, have given unqualified
approval to this movement. It remains then with
us as women to resolve that we will identify our-
selves with the W. S. A. and to make all neces-
sary sacrifice of time and means to become faith-
ful suffragists.

	Hon. F. S. Richards addressed the meeting.
The attendance here today reminded him of some
of the audiences in Washington. Was a be-
liever in Woman's Rights, in Woman Suffrage.
Women who have sought to gain suffrage have
been derided; his idea of woman's rights was
that she should be the equal of man in every way,
not only socially but in every department of life.
The wife and mother's first duty is her home, but
if she can put those duties in other hands her
woman's intuition, will help her to judge how far.
Who first saw Christopher Columbus plans? was
it the wise men of whom he solicited aid? No
Isabella of Spain!—Woman’s assistance is needed
in all places and times. Believed that many of
the bright schemes yet to be brought forth would
be from woman. The cause is not popular but
it will become so; referred to Galileo and many
other reformers. It is as much our duty to put
our hands forth to break down this false idea of
woman's sphere, as for other evils. All the bar-
baric conditions which have been in the past
should be done away. Long had the woman
been held as an inferior in everything, but these
things will be done away with. Mrs. Lockwood
wanted to study law but was denied. She did
study law, but was for years refused the privilege
of practicing until after long perseverance she
carried the day and was admitted. Doctors op-
posed women studying medicine but the time
came when their opinions were over-ruled and we
know the result.
	These things have been overcome; so will
other things be overcome. We may feel discour-
aged at times, but it does not do to be discour-
aged. Some men may be fearful of the results of
these movements, he was not. Had seen Susan


children: let us teach them from their infancy
to obey the requirements of the Gospel, and it
will be a great benefit to them.
	Sister Constena Poulsen gave a report of the
Primary Association of Sanford, said there
was a fair attendance and she knew great
benefits were being derived by those who
attended.
	Counselor Mary Jensen expressed her
satisfaction at hearing the reports of the sisters,
spoke of the privileges we had in going to
meeting and to do good, making our duties a
labor of love, and exhorted the sisters to come
to meeting and cultivate a sisterly and loving
feeling toward each other.
	Counselor Mary A. Berthelsen spoke a
short time and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, felt her weakness in addressing
her sisters, but desired to do all the good she
could.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant. “I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in the Relief and Primary stake conferences.
I am pleased to see the great work the Relief
Society and Primary Associations do. Many
do not realize the great work the sisters are
doing, and those who find the most fault with
those works and the tithing are those who do
not do any thing themselves. It is very
necessary to have combined faith with works.
The sisters are generally more faithful than
the men, and there would be much benefit de-
rived by letting the sisters vote, and help in all
the great works for they generally carry out
what they undertake well. “He spoke of the
endurance and joy and hope of a true L. D.
Saint saying they could not be discouraged, on
acconnt of their faith and testimony
for they knew they would be amply
paid for all they did. Spoke of the necessity
of parents practising what they taught their
children if they would succeed. Stake and
Ward officers were presented and unanimously
sustained in their respective places.
	Statistical and financial reports of the Relief
Society in all its branches in the Stake were
read by the secretary.
	Pres. S. S. Smith expressed his satisfaction
in meeting with the sisters on this occasion.
	Canference adjourned for six months.
	Singing “From Greenland’s icy mountains,”
Benediction by Bro. A. Fuller.
	MARTHA E. SMITH Pres.
