						S. W. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
		﻿R. S. REPORTS.
		ST. JOHN'S STAKE-
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few items from this part 
might be interesting to readers of the
EXPONENT, I send a brief account of the Relief
Society conference which was held at St.
John’s Sept. 6th 1890.
	On the stand were the Presidency of the
Stake, the Pres. of the R. S. of the Stake and
one counselor and a number of leading 
sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the re-
[Column 2]
ports were read, officers of the Central Board
and Stake presented and unanimously sus-
tained. 
	Pres. E, L. S. Udall spoke in a very interest-
ing manner of her visit, in company with others,
to the branches throughout the stake, express-
ing joy in her labors among the sisters and 
the goodly condition of the Society. She re-
quested secretaries to forward reports by the 
20th of Feb. and Aug. While being pleased 
with the reports in general, regretted that
there was a slackness, with some, in attending 
meeting, showing the advantages of taking an 
interest in these organizations which all the 
sisters should be engaged in. Her objections 
to raffling articles produced in the society were
timely and good, also her instructions to the 
sisters regarding slander.
	The remainder of the time was occupied by 
the following speakers.
	Coun. Frances White, E. B. Coleman, Pres.
of the Primary Association, Mary E. B. 
Farr, Counselors E. A. Freeman and Wm.
Gibbons and Pres. David K. Udall who spoke 
in an impressive manner on union, the 
practical work of the Gospel, training of
children, bearing testimonies to the truth 
and care of the poor, the sorrowing and down-
trodden that the blessings of God may follow 
us through life.
	The meeting was a very interesting one, the 
speakers being filled with the Holy Spirit and 
spoke in a way that must carry conviction to 
the hearers.
	After singing by the congregation and 
benediction by Coun. Wm. Gibbons conference 
adjourned for six months.
	On Sunday evening following the R. S. 
conference, a meeting for the sisters was held 
in the R. S. Hall where we received much 
good instruction and the power of God was
felt.  One of our sisters had the gift of tongues 
and interpretation and we had a time of re-
joicing together, which made us feel, though
deprived of the society and encouragement of 
our leading sisters in Utah, that God is able 
and willing to speak through the sisters here 
inasmuch as they prove themselves worthy.
					MARY E. FARR Sec.
			SAN LUIS STAKE
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of the stake was held at Manassa,
Colorado, Sep. 7th, 1890, Counselor Mary
Jensen presiding, Choir sang, “The Gospel
standard high is raised”. Prayer by Bro. 
Silas Smith Jun. Singing “How great the 
wisdom and the love, That filled the courts on
high.” Sacrament was administered by the 
Manassa Bishopric. 
	Counselor Mary Jensen made a few opening 
remarks and said she was sorry that our Pres.
could not be present on account of sickness 
in her family. 
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen “Pres. of Sanford
ward” gave a report of the Society of that 
ward. Said a good and united feeling pre-
vailed, meetings were held regularly, and the
sisters tried to attend as promptly as possible.
She spoke of the responsibility of mothers in 
instiling in the minds of their children the 
Spirit of God and the plan of Salvation. 
Counselor E. Barton of Manassa ward, gave a 
favorable report of the sisters of Manassa. 
Said the sisters that attended the Relief Society 
were trying to do all the good they could.
She bore her testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel. Sister Clara Lyman gave a report
of the Primary Association of Manassa. She 
said the children were trying to do their best,
she exhorted the mothers to help the children
to get their parts and have them attend the 
meetings regularly. We as mothers try to do
too much, work too hard, and neglect the most 
important things, that is our duties to our


tion; so that when the end shall have been
reached, she will leave these walls the sym-
metrically developed woman of which we
spoke in the beginning. One not only fitted
for the parlor, the drawing room, and the pub-
lic assembly, but for the kitchen, the dining
room, the sewing room and the nursery.
		[To be continued.]


