		OFFICIAL DECLARATION.

To whom it May Concern:
	Press dispatches having been sent for political
purposes, from Salt Lake City, which have been
widely published, to the effect that the Utah
Commission, in their recent report to the Secre-
tary of the Interior, allege that plural marriages
are still being solemnized and that forty or more
such marriages have been contracted since last
June or during the past year; also that in public
discourses the leaders of the Church have taught
encouraged and urged the continuance of the
practice of polygamy;
	I, therefore, as President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, do hereby, in
the most solemn manner, declare that these
charges are false. We are not teaching polygamy
or plural marriage, nor permitting any person to
enter into its practice, and I deny that either forty
[column 2]
or any other number of plural marriages have
during that period been solemnized in our temples
or in any other place in the Territory.
	One case has been reported, in which the
parties alleged that the marriage was performed
in the Endowment House, in Salt Lake City, in
the spring of 1889, but I have not been able to
learn who performed the ceremony; whatever
was done in this matter was without my knowl-
edge. In consequence of this alleged occurrence
the Endowment House was, by my instructions,
taken down without delay.
	Inasmuch as laws have been enacted by Con-
gress forbidding plural marriages, which laws
have been pronounced constitutional by the court
of last resort, I hereby declare my intention to
submit to those laws, and to use my influence with
the members of the Church over which I preside
to have them do likewise.
	There is nothing in my teachings to the Church
or in those of my associates, during the time
specified, which can reasonably be construed to
inculcate or encourage polygamy, and when any
Elder of the Church has used language wh ch
appeared to convey such teaching he has been
promptly reproved. And I now publicly declare
that my advice to the Latter-day Saints is to re-
frain from contracting any marriage forbidden by
the law of the land.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	President Lorenzo Snow offered the follow-
ing:
	I move that, recognizing Wilford Woodruff as
the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints, and the only man on the earth
at the present time who holds the keys of the
sealing ordinances, we consider him fully autho-
rized by virtue of his position to issue the mani-
festo which has been read in our hearing and
which is dated September 24th, 1890, and that as
a Church in General Conference assembled, we
accept his declaration concerning plural mar-
riages as authoritative and binding."
	The vote to sustain the foregoing motion was
unanimous.
		PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON
Spoke in reference to the manifesto, giving the
reasons for its having been issued by President
Woodruff. His discourse will be published in
full in the Deseret News.
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.
Who had been deeply affected during the presen-
tation of, and action upon the official declaration,
also expressed himself on the same subject. His
remarks were published in the Deseret News
Saturday Oct. 11.
	This Conference which was one of great sig-
nificance and of vast importance to the Latter-day
Saints, will long be remembered by the as-
sembled multitude,it was adjourned Monday after-
noon until April 1891.


