WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
	The question of woman’s rights is extensively
and seriously before the public and should be
candidly, and considerately answered. To my
mind it is one that should be answered from a
higher stand-point than that of mere political con-
siderations involved in that of woman suffrage.
	To all of life and to the conditions of life there
is attached a purpose which can only be realized
in the future. That purpose must be kept in view
or we necessarily become lost.—are in the dark
as to the rights or wrongs of life.
	There is a “divinity that shapes our way,” and
to my mind, woman’s rights are all of human
rights that can possibly aid in acquiring divine
rights.
	All of man’s interests are to that end; to live,
think and act in view of divine attainments, and
as there is no man in the divine economy without
the woman, it ought not to be a very difficult mat-
ter to determine what are woman’s rights as well
as woman’s duties. In all that belongs to the
welfare of the race, she has both rights and
duties.
	There are bounds to the exercise of reason upon
all questions subject to discussion; also, as re-
lates to all principles which can only be compre-
hended by thoughtful and philosophical investi-
gation. To reason correctly, the standpoint or
premises from which we would deduce ultimate
facts must be strictly correct; and the chain of
reasoning must be strictly followed link by link
to find ultimate truth.
	Man’s finite powers of reason are only correct
when they harmonize with the infinite to which
his whole life and being tend.
	The fact that the earthly is in likeness of the
heavenly—the temporal in likeness of the spiritual,
is a standard to which all reasoning must con-
form to abide the test of truth; the key that un-
locks the mystery that lies beyond, and makes it
simple truth to the understanding of man.
	It is in view of this heavenly or spiritual econ-
omy as revealed to man, that I would consider
what are woman’s rights. After the heavenly order
the spiritual and temporal united constituted the
soul of man. It was by virtue of that union that
there ever was a soul of man to be saved or lost
The two separate had nothing of interest in this
[Column 2]
probation. They must work together and share
together all the consequences of that work whether
for good or for ill.
	As there can no soul of man without the union
of two, so there was no man without the union of
two, and man was created, “male and female,”
and only in the union of male and female as one,
is man found to be in the likeness of his Maker—
A union perfectly in keeping with and in likeness
of that union that constitutes the soul of man.
Hence it is declared that neither can be in the
Lord without the other. The union of the two is
a necessity, and only by virtue of that union is the
divine attainable.
	It may well be asked what are the rights of
man without the woman, and what rights has
man that woman is not entitled to share, as a
part of his being. Through her alone his creative
power is developed, without which he has no
legitimate ruling sphere, only over his own pas-
sions and desires.
	The earth today is filled with families and
nations all under obligations to woman as the
bearer of the souls of men, and there is no in-
terest of any worth; social, religious, or political
that she has not sympathy with, and is as dearly
allied to as man. Who shall say that her rights
are not as dear, that her part is not as well per-
formed, or that her reward is not as sure as man’s
to the sharing glory and honor eternally with
him in the heavens, if he be worthy. She has
shared with him in the toil and responsibilities of
human life where she has earned all that heaven
can bestow, or souls immortal desire.
	Is not woman as deeply interested in life and
its results as any man? Is not her power to dis-
cern more keenly developed, and she as suscepti-
ble of happiness or misery; and shall she be
deprived of any position or condition that can
possibly aid in the highest development of that
happiness and intellectual supremacy that should
be transmitted to the generations to come, and be
ripened for the eternities beyond.
	Woman’s lesson and study is the development of
man from childhood to mature age. She learns that
lesson well. The mother, more than any other,
comprehends all that relates to his nature and his
wants. Who, then more competent, better
qualified to take part in all those grand councils
that involve the national welfare, which is but an
aggregation of the individual welfare.
	Let woman know what are her rights and be
permitted to freely exercise them and she would
reform the world from the devotee of every species
of vice and debauchery whom she would never
marry, to the political trickster and judicial petti-
fogger whom she would banish to oblivion with
suffrage and the ballot at her command. If wo-
man had her political rights in this free land she
would breathe the breath of life into the nostrils
of that once glorious, but now dying form of re-
publican government, which was once a govern-
ment of the people, for and by the people, but
is now only a political machine, run by politicians
for political purposes, and threatening the con-
summation of a nation’s ruin.
