August By Ella J. Coulam
Warm, tranquil month of Summer Play day of the year, All nature seems to welcome Your vacation days so dear.
The world is clothed in quietude, The wind breathes notes of peace. It seems content to rest a while And let the mad rush cease.
The lure of lake and canyon, The heat of noon-day sun Then shadows gently creeping And another day is done.
I love to sit and ponder On a moon-light August night— It seems to be a clearing house To set my thoughts aright.
The Trust Supreme By Judge Nephi Jensen
IN the days of Christ's personal ministry, there lived in Capernaum a most extraordinary man. He was a Centurion. This military officer became deeply impressed with the divine power manifested in the ministry of our Lord. The Centurion had a beloved servant who became severely afflicted with palsy. At about this time Jesus of Nazareth came to Capernaum. In his great anxiety the officer approached the Lord appealingly. "My servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented." "I will come and heal him," responded the Savior, before the Centurion could request him to come and administer to the servant. This instant offer of divine assistance gave the officer increased confidence and boldness. Emboldened by his awakened faith he implored, "Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed."
There is unusual power in these simple words. They came from a heart which had been vitalized and transformed by a spiritual energy. The story reveals the deeper meaning of faith. In this simple narrative we see in action the more-than-human trust in the Unseen Power. This Roman officer was so deeply and intensely awakened spiritually that he could believe that just one word, spoken by the Master, would instantly heal the servant who was sorely afflicted. How could a mere spoken word heal a sick person? The Centurion did not know. His ordinary reason could not tell him. For there is no conceivable direct relationship between an uttered word and the removal of disease from a human body. There is nothing about an expressed word which would lead the ordinary reason to conclude that it will restore health. One who can believe implicitly that a few uttered syllables will bring such tremendous results, gives unmistakable evidence of the possession of an endowment higher than ordinary human understanding. He is able to infer and conclude what halting reason cannot lead him to conclude. This power, instantly to infer or conclude, without the slow process of reasoning that tremendous results can, and will come from a simple means, that have not apparent relationship to the results desired is the very essence of faith. It is a sort of divine intuition that outstrips the ordinary understanding. One who possesses this rare gift is in a sense a super-man. He is endowed with a power that transcends the most splendid of all intellectual endowments.
ABRAHAM of old possessed in a high degree this spiritual power. He was so stout-hearted that he could believe that if the life of his beloved son, were taken, God could and would instantly raise him to life again. After receiving the promise that, in Isaac, "all nations of the earth should be blessed," he was commanded to offer this son as a sacrifice. With undaunted confidence in God's power, Abraham made all preparation for the offering. The altar was constructed, the wood for the fire gathered and put in place; the sacrifice was placed upon it and the knife was raised to take the precious life. And his hand was not stayed until he heard the angelic injunction; "Lay not thy hand upon the lad." Abraham unflinchingly met the supreme test of faith. He had the pure soul-strength to believe that God could and would instantly disannul death; and make the lifeless lips speak again. In the language of Paul, the father of the faithful "God was able to raise Isaac from the dead." These are strong words. There is in them the stir and throb of the faith that can triumphantly believe that even death can be turned to life by the edict of Jehovah.
THE faith of Abraham stirred in the heart of the woman of New Testament times who had been afflicted for twelve long years. For twelve years she had suffered untold agony. In her bitter distress she consulted the best doctors of the time in the hope of obtaining relief. She spent her fortune upon physicians but was not healed. Her life was a walking, living, breathing tragedy of pain. One day she stood in the throng as Jesus Christ walked along. She had been told of his beautiful life. She had heard of his tender heart, that throbbed with sympathy for suffering humanity. Moreover, she had been told of the marvelous things he wrought by the power of faith. So when he came just in view of this afflicted woman, her heart was stirred as it had never been stirred before. And in the depths of her awakened soul she cried, "If I may but touch his garment I shall be whole." There is beauty, infinite beauty in these words. There is grandeur and sublimity in them. They came from a heart that was pure enough, deep enough, and strong enough to believe that God could instantly heal her body, which had been distressed with pain for twelve years. Moved by her all-prevailing trust, she reached forth her hand and touched just the apparel of the Christ; and instantly a complete change came over her. Strength took the place of weakness in her body. New life came back into her veins and arteries; and the bloom of health came back to her cheeks. She was instantly and completely healed of an affliction from which she had suffered twelve long years!
JAIRUS of New Testament times belongs to the splendid company of those who have the strong soul-fiber to trust in God to the uttermost. The daughter of this noble ruler died. Even after her eyelids were closed by the icy fingers of death, the loving father heroically trusted that she could be called back to life. In his deep sorrow he went to Jesus and worshipped him saying, "My daughter is even now dead; but come and lay thy hands on her and she shall live." There is the throb of tender pathos and the stir of spiritual power in this trusting appeal. This out-calling for divine help came from a heart that was stout enough to believe that death's cruel sentence can be instantly set aside by the command of sovereign faith. Jesus could not resist this touching appeal of simple trust. He took the girl by the hand, and by faith's all-compelling command cried, "Maid arise." And death obeyed the command of the Master of life and death. The dead instantly came to life again.
MARTHA of Bethany is another of the world's renowned women of real faith. Her beloved brother Lazarus took sick of an incurable fever. As the days and nights came and went the scorching fever burned away the life and strength of Lazarus. His sands of life slowly ebbed away. He died. He was taken by the intimate friends of the family and securely buried in a stone tomb. There he lay in the cold sleep of death for four days and nights. Then Jesus came to the home of Martha to offer her consolation in her great sorrow. When he appeared in the dooryard, Martha saw him. The sight of him awakened her soul as it had never been awakened before. And from the depths of her heroic, trusting soul she cried, "If thou had been here he would not have died." What did she mean? She meant that if Jesus Christ had been in the sick room when Lazarus was dying of the devouring fever, Jesus could have stood there and spoken one word by the power of his faith and Lazarus would have been instantly healed. She had in her heart even a bigger thought. For before Jesus could enter the house, she cried triumphantly, "But I know even now whatsoever thou will ask God will give it thee."
What could she mean now? Lazarus was dead. He had been four days in the tomb. She meant that Jesus Christ could walk to the tomb where Lazarus lay in the marble sleep of death and that he could stand there in the presence of the silent tomb and speak one faith-inspired word and death would stand aside, the tomb would give up its tenant, and the dead would live again. Martha meant all of that; and she could mean all of that because in her heart throbbed and stirred the faith that conquers all things. In obedience to Martha's all-commanding trust, Jesus walked to the tomb where Lazarus lay in the deep slumber of death; and by the power of his imperious faith spoke the death-defying words, "Lazarus, come forth." And death was vanquished. The tomb gave up its tenant; and the dead lived again.
This sublime faith is the radiant energy of the religion Jesus Christ taught. As long as this heart-awakening faith remained in the world, the followers of Christ were impelled by a deep, pure love for God, to live lives of simplicity, beauty, and devotion and power. But this pure faith did not persist in the world. It commenced to wane in less than a century and a half after the first introduction of Christianity. The simple heart-purifying religion of the Christians came into contact with the ostentatious sacerdotalism of the Pagan Romans. These Romans had a multiplicity of gods. They erected splendid images to these deities. Before these dazzling images they performed their acts of devotion with spectacular display and outward circumstance. This gorgeous, noisy expression of devotion was quite in contrast with the quiet, simple faith-inspired worship of the Christians. The sacred acts of these pagans was not only more showy than the Christian prayer of faith; but it was also much more easy to practice than the soul-stirring religion of the Christians. The outward expression of religious ardor is the mere mechanics of worship. It is a very easy thing in comparison with the aroused out-reaching of the soul for intimate fellowship with God.
THE Christians were dazzled by the splendor of paganistic sacerdotalism. They commenced to think that they might add power to their own religion by adopting some of the gorgeous ritualism of the Romans. Moreover, the Pagan Priests accused the Christians of lack of religious ardor because they were so undemonstrative in their expression of devotion. These stinging accusations were effective. They helped to impel the Christians to ape the showy formalism of their neighbors. Gradually the Christians commenced to set up images of Christ, the Virgin Mary, the Apostles, and the distinguished martyrs. In course of time the practice of performing acts of worship before these images was adopted. This practice formalized prayer and worship. The formalization of prayer made it an outward show instead of a deep, intimate affair between the human heart and God. As a result of this paganization of Christianity, simple, heart-stirring faith was undermined. Moreover, the practice of worshipping before images transferred the thought of the supplicants from God to the spirits represented by the images. Out of this transferred thought to spirits in the other world came the practice of praying to these spirits instead of praying to God. In time the belief became established that by praying to spirits of dead martyrs and Apostles, these worthies would intercede with God in behalf of the earthly supplicants. The result was that the idea of God became mystified; and Christians commenced to regard him as a formless spirit, diffused everywhere and nowhere in particular. This mystification of the idea of God finished the deadly work of destroying the simple, vital faith of the first Christians. The destruction of this soul-vitalizing faith marked the end of religion of soul-purifying and transforming power. Mechanical prayer by rote took the place of the spontaneous appeal of the faith-inspired heart. Formalized worship, expressed in gorgeous ritualistic display, supplanted heartfelt worship in spirit and in truth. Soon unnatural asceticism dissipated the energy that could more profitably have been used in socializing enterprises. Superstition took the place of faith; and error displaced the truth.
BUT a new day has dawned. A new dispensation of the gospel has been ushered in. With this gospel restoration has come a revival of the simple all-trusting faith which was the glory of the first age of Christianity. This faith is the throbbing life and power in the religion of the Latter-day Saints. It would require volumes to tell even half of the stories of the modern triumphs of faith. There is only space here for two.
A few years ago two young missionaries of the Church called to see a woman who had been a confirmed, bed-fast invalid for years. With real trusting faith she requested the Elders to administer to her. The senior Elder anointed, and the junior sealed the anointing. It was his first experience and he haltingly stumbled through the ceremony. When he concluded, the senior asked, "Haven't you faith to command her to rise?" "Yes, I have faith," responded the younger with real assurance. He laid his hands upon the afflicted woman a second time, and with the all-conquering faith that stirred within him he commanded her to rise. She was immediately healed; and rose and ministered to the Elders.
In November, 1930, a Sister Shumway was confined in a hospital in Gallup, New Mexico. The child died, and the mother contracted blood poison. The husband was notified by wire to come to the hospital, because the surgeon was about to amputate the wife's leg as a last desperate effort to save her life. The husband requested a prayer meeting to be called in his ward and then hastened to the bedside of his wife. Upon his arrival at the hospital the doctors informed him that there was no hope of saving the woman's life without the amputation. "There is hope," said the husband with astonishing assurance. He asked for permission for the Elders to administer to the afflicted woman. Permission was granted. After the administration the doctor found that the leg was completely healed. The doctors and nurses left the room in amazement. This Brother Shumway met the supreme test of faith. He stood in the presence of a critically afflicted wife and heard the man of science positively aver, "There is no hope." And in spite of the finality of the conclusion of medical science he could heroically say, "There is hope."
In this new dispensation of the gospel, devout souls who have been awakened to the reality of God and His power and goodness, have witnessed all the marvels that characterized the true Faith of the first age of the Christian religion. In our age, diseases that baffled the skill of the best physicians have yielded to the healing power of undoubting faith. The deaf have been made to hear and the blind have been made to see. Even the dead have been restored to life again. Thousands of Saints can bear truthful testimony to these gracious manifestations of divine power, in obedience to the humble prayer of trusting faith. These Saints belong to a distinct and unique class of mortals. Aye, they are more than human. They possess a power that is akin to omnipotence. What is wealth, fame, or even distinguished talents in comparison with this strength of strength, this life of life? Theirs is majesty, grandeur, and glory in the hallowed lives of these trusting souls. No wonder the Apostle concluded that God has chosen the "rich in faith to be heirs of his Kingdom."