My Forget-Me-Not (A Household Hint) By Virginia B. Jacobsen
For weeks I have been going to mend John's golf sweater, and fix the cuff on his work trousers. But, (there's always a 'but') I never seem to remember until he wants to wear them. There they hang, still waiting to be mended. Then, there is the corner of oil cloth on the bathroom wall that needs to be stuck down, and a chip out of that vase that must be glued. Speaking of gluing, there's the page that Junior tore out of the Forsyte Saga, I must not forget to mend that. Thinking of forgetting reminds me that I must buy a new tape measure next time I go to town. Yes, and I must not forget a strainer, some sewing machine needles, and some laces for Sally's shoes. Oh, I didn't make that phone call, yesterday. How could I have forgotten? What will they think of me? As I iron, a dozen thoughts race through my mind: things I must remember to do today, this week, this month; a good menu; something I must remember to tell my husband; a good thought on the lesson I am preparing. BUT, and there's that 'but' again, thinking of all this while I iron, does not mean that I will remember again just when I should. Out of these tangled thoughts an idea came to me, not a new idea, nothing startling, just a good practical idea. Why not catch those flitting thoughts before they are lost in the limbo of forgetfulness? So, I bought a small note book, and tied a short, sharp pencil to it, and I keep "Forget-me-not" right in my pocket, or my purse if I am away from home. Now, when a thought comes, which I want to remember, I write it down where it can not stray away. During the day, when I have a moment to sit down and organize my work, I tabulate these random thoughts under general headings: today, this week, shopping, phone calls, and so on. You have no idea, until you try it, just how much satisfaction you can find in checking off each task as it is accomplished. I find that I am actually getting most of those elusive jobs done. Now, I can go to sleep at night without dreaming that John's pants are chasing me down town crying to be mended; knowing that when he goes for his sweater in the morning, he will find it ready to wear.
P. S.—If your husband is anything like mine, and nine chances out of ten he is on this one point, he hates to be repeatedly reminded of the many little jobs expected of the man of the house. Why not have a "Forget-me-not" for him? But, (here's the most important 'but' of all) don't discourage him by listing such an array of jobs that his enthusiasm is killed before it is born. Make his "Forget-me-not" as inoffensive as the flower for which it is named.