The Valentine By Alice Morrey Bailey
"Mother, don't get cross if I ask you something, will you?"
"Well, go ahead. What is it?" Marian raised her head from the pillow to look at Tommy.
"Mother, I— Well, Mother, it's like this. You see, all the kids are giving all the other kids valentines. I haven't enough to go around."
"Oh! Is that what you disturbed Mother for, Tommy? Couldn't you see I have a headache?"
"I'm sorry, Mom. You've always got—" Tommy bit his lip on the last word and left the room, his face drained of the hope it had held.
Marian sighed. Tommy should have known better than to intrude on her when she was in this mood. His steps had sounded so like Hervey when he walked to the bed. It was cruel never to know Hervey's steps coming toward her again like that, to see his bright, impish face. Her eyes filled with tears again, and she buried her face in the pillow. She had had the "blues" all day, beginning in the morning when she had run across Hervey's brown school oxford in a box in the closet. The mate to that oxford had been lost in the accident that had taken him forever from them.
She heard Therese come in and put her school books on the table in the hallway. "Goodness!" she thought. "Is it that time?" Alf would be home in less than an hour and nothing done towards dinner. Arousing herself she went into the kitchen. She decided that she'd better prepare the vegetables before she started the lunch dishes, stacked not too tidily on the sink. Oh dear! What could she have for dessert? Too late for anything except a bottle of fruit and some wafers—if there were any left.
Therese came from her room. With a glance at her mother's face she attacked the dishes, her lovely mouth a little grim, her eyes rebellious.
Dinner was a heavy meal. Alf looked at her sharply and fell to eating silently. It seemed to her he was not sympathetic lately. There were times when expressions of distinct annoyance flitted across his face. She looked at the other four members of her family: Therese, nineteen, Isabel, seventeen, and Janice, fifteen—Alf used to call them his "stepping stones"—and Tommy, nine. Hervey had left a gap. He would have been twelve now. Marian smothered a sob with a sigh.
"Mother, the funniest thing happened in school today," recited Janice, her eyes sparkling with reminiscence. "You know old Funnyface, our Algebra teacher? Well, I was sitting by Marie and he—" Janice's story died a natural death. No one laughed, and she, too, fell to eating silently.
"By the way, Isabel, where were you last night?" said Therese suddenly.
"Wouldn't you like to know?" tossed Isabel.
"What do you mean by that?" said Alf.
"Nothing," said Isabel blandly. She looked at her father with clear, unreadable eyes.
"Well, Daughter, where were you? Didn't you go to Mutual?"
"Probably running around with Gib Spencer again," put in Therese.
"Therese!" reproved Marian.
"You haven't answered my question, Isabel," reminded Alf.
"Well, I wasn't doing anything out of the way. Gib is nice—as nice as Dewey." Therese widened her eyes at this blasphemy, but held her tongue.
"That isn't the point, Isabel. You should have been in Mutual; and we'd like to make Gib's acquaintance."
"Yes, imagine bringing him here," said Isabel under her breath.
"What?" said Alf.
"Nothing," mumbled Isabel.
"May I go out to play after supper?" asked Tommy.
"Yes, an hour," granted Marian.
After supper Alf dispatched Isabel and Janice to the kitchen to take care of the dishes. Therese took the vacuum and the dust cloth to the living room. By that token they all knew that she was expecting Dewey. Dewey, a bright young lawyer, and Therese had been engaged for over a year.
"What in the world is that?" said Alf, putting down his paper. Outside there was a rising clamor of angry little-boy voices. Alf stepped to the door. Tommy, paper-white and sobbing, was holding at bay on the front sidewalk a mob of jeering, shrieking boys. When Alf opened the door they fled.
"Yes, the old cowards!" Tommy sobbed. "Why don't they come and fight me on my own property?"
"What's the matter, son? Calm down now so that you can talk."
"Well, they said I—I didn't hold up my end of the bargain. They aren't going to send me any valentines 'cause I didn't give a present on the school tree at Christmas. I don't care. I don't want their old valentines. They're my enemies. Everybody's my enemies—my teachers, and even my own mother."
"Tommy! Tommy!" said Alf, shocked. Oh dear! Thought Marian, distressed. What a terrible child he is growing to be—a problem child.
"You'd better apologize to your mother, now," said Alf sternly.
Tommy choked. "Well, I'm sorry. Only I don't get a handkerchief, and I can't remember to brush my teeth and our row doesn't get a gold star on account of me."
"That's enough! Now why didn't you give a present at Christmas?"
"Well, I didn't have one to give and we drew names, and I told Mother, but she didn't give me one."
"I forgot about it," said Marian. "But I've been so nervous and upset. You just can't imagine—"
"Yes, I know," said Alf. "Well, surely you can see where all this is leading to, Marian."
"I can see where all what is leading to?" said Marian. "I'm sure I'm not to blame. Tommy will have to learn to brush his teeth without being told. You know what I've been going through this last year."
The inference disquieted her, however, and later she asked Alf what he meant by it, but he only grunted and retreated behind his paper.
Dewey came. "I suppose you are all aware of my designs," he said after his greeting, slipping an arm about Therese. They all laughed but Isabel, who looked at them with silent distaste. Dewey was quick to notice it. "Do I hear a dissenting vote?" he bantered. "What are your objections, my girl."
"I'm not on the witness stand," flashed Isabel, but she laughed.
"Mother, come and see what Tommy has done," wailed Janice from the kitchen. "Cut up my pictures for my Home Ec. Scrapbook. And just look what he's done to the kitchen."
"You'll have to pick up every scrap of paper," scolded Marian. "Why don't you ever ask? What did you do that for?"
"Oh, she don't need to make such a fuss just because I wanted to make a few little old valentines."
Dewey left before Tommy had obeyed and been packed off to bed, sulking. Isabel jumped every time the telephone rang and turned each call to other members of the family disappointedly. Finally she went to bed. Janice had already gone, after scolding a little about the clothes she must wear the next day. Therese waited until there was no danger of interruption and then laid down her book.
"Mother," she began, "Dewey was asking me again tonight how soon we can be married. I've been wanting to talk to you about it for a long time, but—"
"Oh, Therese, must we go into that again tonight? This has been such a hard day for me. The evening has been terrible."
"They all are, Mother, and this thing has to be settled," said Therese with unprecedented callousness. "You've been putting us off so long." Alf looked at Therese keenly, but said nothing.
"You're plenty young yet, Therese. Nineteen is too young."
"I can't see what difference it makes so long as I am sure about Dewey. I'm a year older than I was last year, and it was all set then. We've waited a decent interval, and we have to have something definite to work toward. Besides, I'll either marry him soon or break with him. I think too much of him to keep him dangling."
"What was your idea, Therese?" said Alf quietly.
"Well, I did have an idea—of course, it's too late now—that a Valentine wedding would be beautiful. There are so many things you can do with decorations. Some of the girls want to give me showers, and I still think a valentine trousseau tea would be lovely."
Marian caught her breath. "I couldn't bear it. Have you forgotten that it was last Valentine night that Hervey. Was—" she paused, "and that he had a party that night? He jumped on his bike to go after someone he had forgotten to invite. He never came back." Marian was crying again.
"Oh yes, Mother. I truly had forgotten," said Therese contritely. "Oh, I'm sorry."
"I don't see how you ever could forget," Marian wept.
That night after they had gone to bed Marian wept again. She expected Alf to take her into his arms and comfort her, as usual, but he didn't. "The children are so thoughtless," she complained. "Tommy is getting so rude. They are all so selfish and self-centered. They don't seem to miss Hervey, nor to realize how I miss him. No one knows how I feel."
"Don't blame them too much. They are normal young people with their own lives to live. No one can stop them."
"Not even the loss of a brother," Marian couldn't help saying.
"We have living children," said Alf sharply. "There is more than one way to lose a child." He turned his back.
It was more than Marian could stand. The children, and now Alf! How true it was that a father couldn't feel the love that a mother could. Alf had never failed her before. In that minute she was certain that she had made a mistake in her marriage. She wept silently and didn't sleep for hours.
She was ill again when she awoke. She didn't get up to get breakfast. "They'll have to do the best they can. I just can't, feeling as I do." She was relieved when the house was silent. Her mind followed a well-worn track—a track that had its beginning and end in Hervey, his characteristics, his words, his tragic death. Around and around her thoughts flew, like birds in captivity. Her heart ached with an actual, physical pain, almost beyond the limit of endurance. It seemed, with the thoughtlessness of these others, that the only precious thing she had in life had been snatched from her.
She had an overwhelming desire to be nearer Hervey, and suddenly she thought of some notebooks he had given her at the end of his fifth grade year—his spelling book with not a single mistake, his Nature scrapbook with the "A plus" mark. They must be in the bottom of her trunk. She delved, piling the things on a chair. Only old treasures were kept here—her wedding dress of changeable white and blue taffeta, Alf's uniform with his overseas cap, his black box that he always kept locked. Marian had suspected, not without jealousy, it must contain keepsakes from former sweethearts. She put it on top of the precarious pile and bent into the trunk. With a clatter the black box fell, springing the lock and spilling its contents around her knees. Letters! She turned them over one by one. Without exception they were letters from her to Alf. He had saved every written word—her greeting cards and postcards. She read them all as the morning slipped by, and they revealed to her a girl, a bride, a young mother that she had long forgotten. And with revelation there came censure—her own censure of herself.
It came from scraps of letters, scraps of yesterday's conversation. "I must tell you of Isabel's birthday party. What a hospitable child she is, and how she sparkled with all that company! We must keep our home open to them always." That must have been that trip to Denver Alf took when Isabel was seven. "I wish you could see him. He has such an honest little chin. Do you think that some day he might be president?" That had been the awful time when Tommy was born and Alf had had to be away. And a little farther in the same letter: "We have such an ideal family. I think we might even crop out with an artist. Janice paints everything in sight with her crayons—and is amazing for a five-year-old." That hadn't been an idle prediction. What had happened to Janice's painting? It had been months since she'd thought of it.
The last one was a valentine addressed to Camp Lewis in 1918. On the back in her girlish hand: "I mean it. I offer you all my heart. How much longer will it be? Eternity is too short to spend with you." That February she had been nineteen! Poor Therese! Poor little Tommy! Fighting a world of enemies. Making his own pitiful valentines. "There's more than one way to lose a child," Alf had said. She looked at the clock. Twelve-thirty. There was time for a beginning.
"Oh, Mother! Who washed the curtains? May I have a party? How clean everything smells," enthused Isabel several hours later.
"I tell you what! Bring the crowd in for cake and punch Tuesday night after Mutual, but right now I want you and Therese to make out a list of guests for a Trousseau Tea on Valentine day," said Marian, and was rewarded by the glory that filled Therese's eyes.
"Great day!" sang Isabel. "Mother, you make the best suppers. I bet those mean old kids didn't have pie, and I'm glad. Mother, if I had Hervey they wouldn't dare beat up on me."
Tommy subsided at the warning glances from around the table.
"Indeed they wouldn't," said Marian, seeming not to notice. "Tommy, let's clear off the table and figure up how many valentines you have to have."
"Oh, boy!" Tommy obeyed with alacrity, and in a few minutes Janice approached them shyly. "Mother, have you time to look at something I painted to-day?"
All evening Alf's surprised eyes were on her. "I'm sorry, Marian, that I was rude last night," he said later. "Don't think I haven't noticed how much Tommy walks like Hervey. Sometimes it—" Poor Alf! Marian told him, then, about the letters and the valentine. "So you see, it's terribly clear to me how selfish grief can be. Not that I love or miss Hervey any the less, but I'm afraid I was more concerned about myself. Anyhow," she finished, "I'm glad Tommy'll get his valentines."