The Body's Need for Protein By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department—University of Utah
In the previous article the body's need for heat and energy was discussed. The present article will consider the body's need for building materials. The reader will recall that one depends largely upon the sugars, starches, fats and to a lesser extent upon protein foods, such as milk, cheese, eggs, cereals and meat, for the heat and energy needed by the body. For growth and maintenance of body tissue one needs the above mentioned foods, but in addition water and the mineral salts are required. All of these building materials must be supplied in the food if the body is to grow and function normally. Next to water, protein composes the greatest proportion of the body tissue. The term "protein" is derived from a Greek verb meaning "to take first place". The word proteins is a group term covering a large number of foods which include the element nitrogen. Today we know much more about the growth and functioning of the body than was known when protein was assigned the "first place" in nutrition. However with this additional knowledge, protein foods still occupy a very important place.
Nature of Proteins
The proteins are essential constituents of every living cell, both plant and animal. No cell can be formed without the help of proteins. They make up the greater part of all the muscle tissue as well as the brain and nerve tissue. Proteins are important constituents of the blood and of the secretions of the various glands that have so much to do in regulating the functions of the body. Proteins are also used in the manufacture of the digestive juices. Proteins differ from our other foods—starches, sugars, and fats—in that they contain the element nitrogen. This important element is taken from the soil by the growing plants. Nitrogen, together with the water from the soil and the carbon dioxide from the air, is used by Nature to manufacture protein foods. The original source of all proteins is the vegetable kingdom. Man and animals eat the vegetable proteins and use them to build animal proteins which are used for the growth of body tissues and to perform the many other important functions assigned to them.
Protein is a very complex substance. There are many different kinds and sources of proteins. The animal proteins, such as milk, cheese, eggs and meat, are the principal sources. The cereals, because of being used in such large amounts, constitute an important source. There is a limited amount of protein in all fruits and vegetables. Proteins are made up of varying combinations and quantities of twenty-three amino acids or building stones each containing the important element nitrogen. All the amino acids have characteristics in common; yet each one is a distinct chemical unit. Borrowing Mary Swartz Rose's means of explaining the composition of proteins, one thinks of the amino acids as a large assortment of beads of twenty-three different colors and sizes and many of each kind in the collection: "To represent a protein we may select one sample of each of the different beads and arrange a figure; or we may take the same twenty-three amino acids, some kinds singly, others by threes or fours, perhaps some by the dozen and arrange another figure of quite a different pattern." Each figure will represent a certain protein and yet each will be very different in its composition. Some proteins contain all the amino acids, some only seventeen while others are made up of only ten or twelve amino acids. The writer is refraining from giving the scientific names of the amino acids as they are difficult to remember and would only be confusing.
Classification of Proteins
Each amino acid is an entity and has a special role in nutrition. No one of them can take the place of any other. They can, however, supplement each other. We speak of a protein that contains all of the amino acids, twenty-three of them, and each one in a sufficient amount, as a complete protein. Complete proteins are capable of maintaining growth and supporting new growth. Examples of complete proteins are: milk, cheese, eggs, lean meat, certain nuts and part of the protein in corn, wheat, and soy beans. Proteins are spoken of as "partially incomplete" when they are lacking in certain amino acids and are capable of maintaining growth but cannot support new growth. Part of the proteins in cereals are of this group. There is still another group known as "incomplete" which are incapable of either maintaining life or supporting growth when fed as the only protein. Gelatin and the zein in corn are the best examples. All of the proteins that are partially incomplete or incomplete are found almost entirely in the vegetable and cereal foods.
The fact that proteins differ in their amino acid make-up is not so serious as it may appear. Proteins have supplementary values and in our customary diets we combine proteins from the different groups, for example: one eats potatoes, an incomplete protein, with meat, a complete protein; macaroni with cheese; bread with milk; vegetables with meat, eggs or cheese, etc. Through these supplementary values all proteins may function as complete proteins.
Growth and Repair of Tissue Requires Protein
The adult does not store protein in his body, so that his need for this type of food is not so great as it was during growth when he was storing protein in the new tissue that was being formed. All living cells are undergoing changes as long as life lasts and are in constant need of repair or renewal. The food supply must carry this repair material to the blood stream. All of the proteins are broken down, through the processes of digestion, into their amino acids. As these amino acids are carried by the blood to the cells all over the body the ones that are needed for repair are utilized. In growing children it is not only a matter of repairing worn-out cells but of building new tissue; hence the need for protein food is much greater than for adults. A baby doubles its weight in six months and trebles it in one year. There is no time during the entire life cycle when growth is so rapid. Nature realized this and provided the best and most complete protein, milk, to supply the need for protein. Throughout the entire growth period the body requires a comparatively large amount of protein. Of the total amount needed at least one-half should be the complete proteins such as milk, cheese, eggs, and meat. These complete proteins combined with cereals and vegetables will make all of the proteins complete. It is interesting that long before we knew anything about the chemical or nutritional values of proteins such combinations became traditional.
Amount of Protein Needed by the Body
Studies made of protein consumption show a great variation in the amount consumed. Families with higher incomes consume a greater amount than those with lower incomes. Meat, milk and eggs are usually expensive sources of proteins and are used liberally where the budget will permit. Families of lower incomes use greater quantities of cereal and vegetable proteins, supplementing them with the cheaper cuts of meat. Milk is usually reduced to a minimum. The investigators are not agreed as to the best amount of protein, but it seems wise to avoid either extreme and to use a moderate amount. There are evils associated with either an excessive or an insufficient amount. Dr. Sherman, an outstanding authority in the field of Nutrition, recommends one gram per kilo of body weight, or in other words, one-half gram per pound. Since this standard is not practical for general use these simple suggestive menus for the day's protein may be followed:
FIRST DAY Food Amount Gram Protein Milk 1 pint 16 Cottage Cheese 1/4 cup 14 Liver 3"x5"x 2" 16 Bread 4 Slices 12 Total 58
SECOND DAY Food Amount Gram Protein Milk 1 pint 16 Pork chop 1 medium 17 Egg 1 7 Bread 4 Slices 12 Shredded Wheat 1 biscuit 3 Baked Beans 1/2 cup 7 Total 62
Most other foods usually appearing in the diet may be counted on to furnish small additional amounts of protein. Generally, if one includes in the daily diet one pint of milk, one average serving of lean meat, one other protein-rich food such as an egg, a serving of cheese, beans, etc., together with a serving of whole cereal, one will be assured of sufficient protein.
As stated above if the income is adequate, it is not difficult to supply a sufficient amount of protein when one may select freely from milk, lean meat, eggs and cheese, but when the budget is limited it is much more difficult to supply an adequate amount and still keep the diet palatable. The writer suggests that each mother send for a copy of "Diets at Four Levels of Nutritive Content and Cost," by Stiebeling and Ward, Circular 296, United States Department of Agriculture. This circular will suggest a good selection of foods to meet all the dietary requirements at different cost levels. The low-cost dietary will supply the protein from the food groups as follows:
Cereal products 31% Milk and cheese 31% Vegetables and fruits 15% Meat and eggs 18% Fats, sweets 5%
The Growing Child's Need for Protein
Since the principal function of protein is to build and repair tissue it is obvious that at no time in one's life is it as important to provide adequate protein in the diet as it is during the growing period. The child grows more rapidly during the first year, consequently its need per pound is greater than at any other time. Nature has recognized this need and has provided in mother's milk the best possible protein, lactalbumin. The superior quality of this protein meets the needs of the infant in a smaller amount than would be possible in artificially fed infants. Eggs are also a splendid source of protein for growing children. Lean meat, fish and cheese appear early in a growing child's diet. Whole cereals, well cooked and served with whole milk should enter into the daily diet of growing children. The protein allowance for growing children is higher according to their weight than that of adults and will be met if approximately a quart of milk is consumed daily. More eggs will enter into his diet, otherwise the suggestive protein diets for adults will serve as a guide for the growing child's diet. There is no dietary deficiency more rapidly noticeable in animal experimentation than a deficiency of protein foods. While it does not furnish so striking a picture in human nutrition, its evil effects are nevertheless present.
Muscular Activity and Protein Requirement