APPLES ON A PLATE By Gertrude Perry Stanton "Why be so Victorian,"?do you say, "With a plate of apples on your buffet? Use a Wedgwood tea set, or Sevres vase; Those apples look so commonplace!" Perhaps they do?yet on memory's page I can see a child of tender age Who never had apples enough to eat, And the common fruit was her rarest treat. There was nothing tempting in her lunch pail; No wonder she seemed so small and frail. So now that I live where apples grow, In the cellar are baskets in a row, And always upstairs, on table or shelf, There's a plateful, so each may help himself. Every hungry youngster that enters the door May have one, or two, or three, or more; It may be old-fashioned and out-of-date, But ['ll still have my apples on a plate! MILK THE General Presidency of the Relief Society would like to impress upon mothers the need for milk, particularly for growing children. Relief Society Presidents everywhere are charged with the responsibility to see that no children suffer for lack of milk. "Milk is a food no one should do without, because it contains so many elements of a healthful diet. We should use it every day?a quart for each child and a pint for each adult is a good daily allowance, used either in fluid form or in milk products. It is important that growing children have plenty of milk. It is especially needed for good teeth and bones, as milk supplies in almost ideal amounts minerals that go into their composition. Adults of all ages need milk. "Milk is always a good investment even when very little money can be spent for food. We do not usually think of it as an energy food, and yet a quart supplies from two-thirds to three-fourths of the total energy required per day by a year old child; about one-half of the energy needed by a child of five; and about onefourth of that needed by a man moderately active. One cup of milk has about the same energy value as 2% eggs, or 3% ounces of lean round beef, or 8% ounces of string beans. "Milk should not be regarded as a beverage; it is a food. Sip it slowly; get the flavor out of it. Don't use it merely to quench thirst, and don't drink it rapidly. The gastric juice of the stomach causes milk to curdle shortly after you swallow it. If milk is drunk rapidly, the curds are large and tough and digestion is likely to be slow and difficult."? The Milk Foundation, Inc., Chicago. & Arden RED CAP Milk FINER FLAVOR AND QUALITY Call Wasatch 80 Visit