[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Jean  Ridges  Jennings 
For  Tuesday,  January  i  3,  1948 
\\7ELL-fitted  sleeves  and  shoulder  the  shoulder  seam.   Therefore  it  be- 
pads  have  a  great  deal  to  do  comes  necessary  to    be   careful    to 
with  the  good  appearance  and  com-  match  the  top    of    the    sleeve  as 
fort  of  clothing.  Too  often  mistakes  marked  on  the  pattern  to  the  shoul- 
in  the  fit  of  sleeves  are  made  through  der  seam.    Do  not  shift  the  sleeve  at 
a  misunderstanding  of  the  pattern,  all,  either  forward  or  backward. 
First  of  all,  the  sewer  must  realize  With  the  top  of  the  sleeve  pinned 
that  for  proper  freedom  and  ease  the  properly  in  place  and  the  underarm 
armhole  of  the  sleeve  itself  must  be  seams  pinned  together,  work  out  the 
larger  than  the  armhole  of  the  dress  extra  fullness  that  always  appears  in 
or  jacket.     Beginners  are  prone  to  a  sleeve  by  manipulating  with  the 
think  that  the  average  sleeve  is  too  forefingers  and  thumbs.  Stretch  the 
long  around    the  armhole  and  at-  armhole  as  much  as  possible  and 
tempt  to  make  adjustments  by  alter-  ease  the  sleeve  into  it,  pinning   at 
ing  its  shape  or  size.  frequent  intervals  and  being  careful 
We  must  caution  you  first  against  not  to  allow  any  little  pleats  to  ap- 
making  any  change  in  the  sleeve  as  pear.    When    properly    pinned   in 
cut  from  the  pattern  unless  it  is  done  place,  baste   carefully   with  a  small 
for  proper  fit  and  the  armhole  of  the  stitch,  and  finally  machine  stitch.  If 
blouse  has  been  altered    to  corre-  the  sleeve  is  not  put  in  straight  as  di- 
spond.  rected,  it  will  have  a  tendency    to 
Sleeves  with  puffs,  gathered  full-  Pul1  and  be  uncomfortable, 
ness,  or  darts  over  the  shoulder  do  Shoulder  pads  should  be  used  to 
not  often  give  much  trouble.    But  enhance  the  appearance  of  the  gar- 
a  plain  sleeve  that  is  meant  to  fit  into  ment  and  flatter  the  wearer.    They 
the  armhole  of  a  blouse  or  jacket,  should,  therefore,  be  made  to  suit 
with   the  finished  seam  fitted  and  the  individual  and  fit  the  garment, 
smooth,  does  frequently  cause  diffi-  A  woman  with  naturally  broad  shoul- 
culty.    The  extra  fullness  must  be  ders  will  need  less  padding  to  adhere 
worked  out  carefully  so  that  when  to  the  prevailing  fashion  than    one 
complete  it  does  not  show  as  full-  with  sloping  or   narrow    shoulders, 
ness  but  merely  gives  the  room  need-  Each  person  will  need  to  experiment 
ed  for  the  upper  arm  and  shoulder,  with  different  types  of  pads  to  find 
When  the  garment  is  completed,  out  what  she  can  best  wear, 
the  grain  of  the  material  in  the  sleeve  Some   shoulder    pads    fit   better 
should  fall  in  a  straight  line  down  placed  in  the  armhole  more  to  the

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  785 
front.    Others  need  to  be  shifted  to  as  it  hangs    down.      Use   a    ruler 
the  back,  but  all  pads  fit  better  if  against  the  arm  to  line  it  up. 
they  do  not  extend  too  far  beyond         Shoulder  pads  should  not   look 
the  shoulder.    A  good  rule  to  follow  like  lumps  under  a  dress,  but  should 
for  this  is  to  have  the  edge  of  the  be  so  tailored  and  fitted  that  they  do 
pad  extend  out  just  far  enough  to  not  seem  to  be  there  but  merely  hold 
make  a  straight  line  with  the  arm  the  garment  to  a  flattering  line. 
JLi iterature — Literature  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson  5— Prayers  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Elder  H.  Wayne  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  February  17,  1948
