[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 39 | Category: General Feature | Title: Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address]
building  stone,  or  potatoes.  Some- 
one wrote  that  the  "teachers'  sala- 
ries instead  of  being  drawn  on  the 
bank  were  drawn  on  wheelbarrows." 
How  resourceful  were  those  early 
teachers!  Even  a  new  alphabet, 
called  the  Deseret  Alphabet,  of  thir- 
ty-two letters,  was  created  for  the 
use  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  people. 
Probably  the  purpose  for  creating 
this  alphabet  was  to  "simplify  the 
reading  of  the  English  language." 
The  new  alphabet,  although  it  pos- 
se ^d  many  meritorious  features, 
was  used  very  little  even  in  pioneer 
days,  and  was  finally  abandoned. 
The  "Charter  granted  Salt  Lake 
City  in  1851  by  the  Territorial  Leg- 
islature provided  for  the  establish- 
ment and  regulation  of  schools.  Sim- 
ilar provisions  were  made  in  the 
charters  of  all  the  early  Utah  towns." 
By  1850  "common   schools  were 
beginning  in  all  parts  of  the  city  for 
the  winter."  Then  the  Territory  of 
Utah  next  came  into  existence.  Sep- 
tember 23,  1851,  addressing  the  Leg- 
islative Assembly,  Governor  Young 
"advocated  the  encouragement  of 
primary  schools  and  suggested  that 
the  Legislature  consider  the  pro- 
priety of  requiring  the  inhabitants 
of  each  neighborhood  to  maintain  a 
school." 
American  Fork  is  credited  with 
being  the  first  town  to  sponsor  a 
school  "entirely  supported  by  tax- 
es." It  was  the  first  school  in  Utah 
that  was  free  to  all  children. 
HPHE  history  of  Latter-day  Saint 
schools  of  higher  learning,  head- 
ed by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
in  Provo,  shows  that  the  pioneers 
were  staunch  friends  of  religious  ed- 
ucation, "which  should  be  free  from 
prejudice  and  free  for  all." 
Karl  G.  Maeser's  name  is  indeed 
"a  benediction  to  the  name  of  edu- 
cation" in  Utah.     What  an  impor- 
SPELLING  LINE-UP

738  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
tant  place  he  made!     Beloved,  mas-  The  university  programs  were  sup- 
ter  teacher,  he  did  a  great  part  in  plemented  by  Latter-day  Saint  jun- 
establishing  schools  throughout  Des-  ior  colleges  and  by  mission  schools 
eret,  and  for  about  sixteen  years  "he  established    and    directed    by    oth- 
directed  the  growth  of  the  Brigham  er  religious   denominations.    These 
Young  Academy  at  Provo."    He  was  schools,  which  resembled  our  pres- 
called  by  President  Brigham  Young  ent-day  high  schools    in    some   re- 
to    direct    this    institution    which  spects,  helped   to  prepare  students 
opened  for   instruction   in  January  for  work  in  the  universities  and  gave 
1876,  although  Brother  Maeser  did  others  a  background  for  beginning 
not  begin  his  work  as  a  teacher  until  their  life's  responsibilities. 
April  of  that  year.     He  was  a  cul-  What  a  foundation  in  education 
tured  gentleman  in  every  way,  an  has  been  made  in  Utah  from  "Des- 
orator,   "a   technician    in  character  eret  to  Centennial!"  And  as  Daniel 
building,"  who  understood  and  en-  Webster  once  said,  "We  live  in  the 
dured  hardships  cheerfully,    served  past  by  a  knowledge  of  its  history, 
unselfishly,  and   enshrined   himself  and  in  the  future  by  hope  and   an- 
to  his  students  forever.  ticipation." 
In  the  midst   of  all  this  college  As  we  face  the  future,  let  us  think 
making,  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  of  the  brave  and  valiant  ones  who 
College  was  established  at  Logan  as  made  this  firm  foundation, 
a  land-grant  school.  This  college  was  May  the  educators  of  the  future 
founded  by  the  Territorial  Legisla-  realize  that  excellence  comes  from 
ture  to  take  advantage  of  a  succes-  planning  over  a  long  period  of  time, 
sion  of  Federal  Acts  which  provided  as  the  pioneers  did.  May  they  re- 
for  support  of  agricultural  colleges  dedicate     themselves,     may     their 
and  experiment  stations  throughout  classes  be  as  miracles;  may  the  teach- 
the  Nation.     Instruction  was  start-  ers  of  the  future  enrich  the  vision  of 
ed  in  the  fall  of   1890,   with   nine  the    students    and    thereby    shape 
teachers  and  135  students.  characters  and  destiny. 
FIRST  SCHOOL-1847 
Eva  WiJIes  Wangsgaard 
Their  schoolhouse  built  of  logs,  a  single  room, 
A  floor  of  earth  well-packed  by  unshod  feet, 
A  roof  of  mud  made  bright  by  sunflower  bloom, 
A  window  casement  near  a  dusty  street; 
A  paddle  made  of  wood  to  serve  as  chart 
With  pasted  letters  cut  from  an  outworn  book 
And  scraps  of  papers,  poems  learned  by  heart 
And  copied  on  the  flat  stones  from  a  brook; 
And  lacking  these,  a  chappy,  outstretched  hand 
Became  a  slate  where  charcoal  could  write 
The  numbers  which  a  child  must  understand 
Before  he  solved  a  problem  to  recite — 
How  could  they  see  with  eyes  still  hunger-blurred 
An  empire  dormant  in  the  written  word?

A  Man  Must  Work 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
IT  
was  hard  for  Helen  not  to  open 
up  her  heart  to  hope  again.  The 
day  was  perfect  for  Thanksgiving. 
Outside  the  bare  branches  of  trees 
rose  from  carpets  of  bronze-yellow 
leaves,  to  stand  purple  against  the 
clear,  turquoise  sky.  There  was  a 
turkey  in  the  oven,  a  pumpkin  pie 
cooling  on  a  grate  and  all  the  "fix- 
ings" in  the  refrigerator.  Ranee's 
bass  voice  was  roaring,  "Oh,  What 
a  Beautiful  Morning"  in  the  bath- 
room, but  for  Helen  it  was  a  day  of 
last  resort  after  a  year  of  frustration. 
She  hadn't  known  what  it  would  be 
like  to  be  a  doctor's  wife. 
"Which  towel  do  I  use?"  Ranee 
interrupted  his  song  to  shout. 
Your  own,  Dumb,  Helen  thought. 
Aloud  she  called  back,  "The  one  on 
the  south  rack."  If  this  was  to  be 
the  last  day  she  would  play  it  straight 
and  fair,  and  right  up  to  the  hilt. 
No  one  would  ever  say  it  was  her 
fault  their  marriage  failed. 
Ranee  came  out  of  the  bathroom, 
slipping  the  knot  into  his  necktie. 
He  came  over  to  tip  her  face  to  his 
for  a  kiss,  and  her  heart  turned  over. 
Score  one  for  marriage,  she  thought. 
He  might  even  say  he  loved  her,  but 
he  didn't. 
"Where's  my  anatomy  book?"  he 
asked,  and  her  heart  registered  zero. 
"What  is  this,  mutiny?  I  thought 
you  were  going  to  help  me  with  din- 
ner." 
"Can't.  Have  to  assist  with  an 
operation  in  the  morning.  Have  to 
brush  up  on  my  anatomy." 
"Ranee,  no  one  knows  anatomy 
like  you  do." 
"That  I  humbly  acknowledge,  but 
this  is  a  lip  cancer  that  has  spread 
into  the  fascia  of  the  neck.  Cut  one 
artery  there  and  the  whole  field  is 
flooded." 
"Ugh!  Ranee, .do  you  have  to  be 
so  graphic?" 
Ranee  went  into  the  study  and 
closed  the  door,  without  answering. 
Helen  looked  at  it  with  hatred.  It 
was  a  long  established  rule  that  when 
Ranee  studied  there  were  to  be  no 
interruptions.  She  hated  the  books 
behind  that  door.  She  even  hated 
the  stethoscope  that  dangled  so  cas- 
ually from  his  pocket,  and  the  little 
black  bag  that  went  everywhere  with 
him. 
CO!  This  was  to  be  my  day,  she 
thought  bitterly.  It  was  the 
first  anniversary  of  their  wedding, 
but  did  he  remember?  Not  as  of 
eleven  a.m.  on  this  fine  Thursday. 
And  would  she  remind  him?  She 
would  not.  She  had  reminded  him 
of  every  holiday  since  their  marriage, 
to  say  nothing  of  various  dinners  and 
scores  of  special  occasions.  This  one 
he  had  to  think  of  all  by  himself, 
and  if  he  didn't  it  was  the  end! 
Without  exception,  he  had  spent 
the  anniversaries  and  holidays  rid- 
ing ambulances,  delivering  babies, 
answering  night  calls,  and  perform- 
ing emergency  operations.  What 
good  was  it  to  be  connected  with 
the  largest  firm  in  the  state  when 
he  was  the  junior  member  and  the 
leg-man  for  the  whole  outfit?  When 
she  pointed  it  out  to  him,  he  an- 
swered: "But  think  of  all  the  valu- 
Page  739

740 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
able  experience  I'm  getting.  This 
is  all  right,  Baby.    This  is  swell." 
Well,  it  isn't  swell  for  me,  she 
thought,  slamming  the  oven  door. 
Why  had  he  married  her  at  all,  if 
all  he  wanted  was  to  put  her  light 
under  a  bushel?  She  could  have 
married  any  one  of  dozens— Hilliard 
Baker  for  one,  whose  father  was  a 
banker.  Betty  Fenn,  who  had  mar- 
ried him,  had  her  own  car,  scads  of 
clothes,  and  was  the  young  social 
matron  of  the  town.  Hilliard  was 
attentive  to  Betty  and  there  were 
parties  and  dances  every  night. 
Why  had  Ranee  wanted  her  if  she 
was  to  be  nothing  except  part  of 
the  furnishing  for  his  house— the 
tap  you  could  turn  on  and  off,  the 
toaster,  to  burn  hot  or  cold  as  he 
desired,  a  chair  that  could  sit  inani- 
mate and  still  as  he  wished? 
I  have  to  calm  down,  she  remind- 
ed herself.  She  had  to  be  honest. 
She  hadn't  wanted  Hilliard  Baker. 
She  had  wanted  Ranee.  This  was 
pure  jealousy— not  of  people,  but  of 
time-consuming  work.  It  was  lone- 
liness. A  person  could  be  very  lone- 
ly in  a  world  of  people. 
At  any  rate,  there  was  still  the  din- 
ner, and  there  was  the  afternoon 
ahead,  and  the  evening.  Helen  gave 
herself  a  mental  shaking  and  began 
spreading  pimento  cheese  in  the  hol- 
lows of  crisp  white  celery.  This  was 
really  going  to  be  a  dinner!  She 
would  fix  the  sweet  potatoes  with 
marshmallows. 
At  one  o'clock  Ranee  came  out  to 
get  a  drink  of  water.  "Urn!  Good!" 
he  pronounced,  sniffing  the  odors 
of  the  kitchen.  He  had  to  peep  in- 
to the  oven  at  the  turkey,  and,  if 
Helen  hadn't  caught  him  in  time,  he 
would  have  pinched  the  crust  of  the 
pie. 
"How  soon  is  dinner?  I'm  cav- 
ing in,  and  these  aromas  are  devas- 
tating to  my  will  power." 
"At  two  o'clock— one  more  hour." 
"Sixty  whole  minutes?  I  don't 
think  I  can  bear  it,  but  it  will  work 
out  just  right.  One  more  hour  with 
Morris  will  just  about  do  it."  Mor- 
ris was  the  anatomy  text. 
He  went  back  to  the  study,  this 
time  closing  the  door  reluctantly 
after  a  rueful  wink  and  grin  at  Hel- 
en. She  set  the  table  with  a  lighter 
heart,  getting  out  her  wedding  sil- 
ver and  lace,  and  making  an  attrac- 
tive centerpiece  of  fruit— apples  and 
pears,  peaches  and  grapes,  sprinkled 
with  nuts  and  small,  colored  candies, 
pouring  from  a  horn  of  plenty  she 
had  shaped  and  gilded  days  before. 
It  looked  classic  on  a  mirror  ringed 
with  leaves  and  blue  plums. 
VK7HEN  Ranee  came  out,  he 
whistled  in  surprise  and  ex- 
amined the  horn  with  flattering  in- 
terest. 
"So!  You  made  it  yourself!  How 
clever!" 
"Oh,  Ranee,  I  had  a  terrible  time 
making  it  come  right  with  that 
papier-mache." 
"Why  didn't  you  tell  me?  I'd 
have  got  some  casting  plaster  from 
surgery.  I  might  even  have  made 
it  myself.  I'm  pretty  handy  put- 
ting on  a  cast,  you  know." 
"You'd  have  been  too  busy,  Ranee. 
You'll  just  have  time  to  change 
while  I'm  serving  the  dinner." 
"Right,"  he  said,  and  went  to  the 
bedroom.  When  he  came  out, 
handsome  and  distinguished,  the 
turkey  was  on  the  table,  little  bub- 
bles of  juice  still  sliding  under  the 
transparent  golden  skin,  the  dress- 
ing emitting  sage  and   onion-laden