[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: First Wangsgaard]

Young, 'who attended Miss Dilworth's first school. UNISHMENTS were also necessary at times. Silas Hillman said "YOU'RE ASKING FOR A SPANKING" 735 that, although punishment was used, little whipping was done. The other forms of punishment were as follows: The first offense was punishable by having the offender stand in the middle of the floor; the second, to stand on one  foot; the third, on one foot with one arm raised; the fourth, on one foot with the raised arm holding a stick. Next came the dunce cap and various other unique ways of trying to keep order. In the Bigham Young School the individual desks were painted green, with drop lids. These could be raised and, as Clarissa Y. Spencer expressed it: "It was very convenient to raise the lid, and behind it, eat a choice apple or read a note from one of the boys, being quite sure the teacher would not see us." Later, more fortunate teachers had some charts on the walls for the youngest children and slates and pencils for the older ones. In imagination we can hear the scratchy slate pencils, which had been made from slate rock whittled down. Later, when paper could be obtained, quills were used for pens, and sharpened by the teacher with her sharp knife. Oak bark and copperas were boiled together for ink. Those who had neither pencils, slates, pen, nor ink took charcoal and "wrote on smooth logs or dried bark of the white mountain birch." There was a great scarcity of books in pioneer days. Bibles and other standard works of the Church were available, but references and textbooks were limited. What rapture must have been felt by the saints when Wilford W. Woodruff arrived from the States with nearly two tons of school books. This event was recounted in the Deseret News of November 27, 1852:
Some of the books used during the first brief school year in Utah were the Bible, Noah Webster's Spelling Book, the Lindley Murray Readers, and A New and Complete Arithmetic Composed for Citizens of the United States. Others available at that time were a medical work by Dr. Gunn, a universal history, and occasionally there would be found a Blackstone and other legal books. Dr. Bernhisel brought a large number of books of every type from the East. Mention is also made of Kirkham's Grammar, Smith's Arithmetic, the Wilson Readers, Cornell's Geography, Ray's Arithmetic, and Elementary Arithmetic. Spencerian copybooks were often used to perfect writing.
With what pride the owners of a McGuffey's First Reader, published in 1836, studied its contents. The owner of this book cherished the illustrations "designed to be used by lovers of art. This book was handled almost reverently and placed on the shelf or table with the carefully dusted and much used Bible and other cherished and treasured books. Lessons of courtesy and morals were almost shouted at the end of each story.
IN 1848 the Legislative Assembly enacted its first law which provided for good roads. Its second law provided for a University of the State of Deseret, claimed to be the first institution of higher learning west of the Mississippi."
In February 1850 Orson Spencer was appointed chancellor. Twelve members to make up the Board of Regents were also appointed. "Until 1869 its existence was little more than nominal. . . . Then the annual grant of $3,000 for its support came from an empty treasury."
Three men comprised the first faculty—Orson Pratt, Cyrus W. Collins, and Orson Spencer. Each of the forty students paid $8 or its equivalent every ten weeks.
For a time the University was a "Parents' School." It was held in the front parlor of the John Pack home on the corner of West Temple and First North Street in Salt Lake City. After awhile the "Parents' School" was discontinued. It was one of the most interesting experiments conducted in Utah education.
Tuition and salaries were problems in those early days. The parents had to furnish their own books, building materials to produce, such as potatoes,
they occur." The illustrations served also for oral lessons in language, for spelling, word pronunciations, stories, and memorization. Many pictures were carefully traced by lovers of art. This book was handled almost reverently and placed on the shelf or table with the carefully dusted and much used Bible and other cherished and treasured books. Lessons of courtesy and morals were almost shouted at the end of each story. 
READING AND WRITING IN DESERET eggs, and butter.
Nearly a century ago, a student registering at the "Parents' School" could pay his tuition with lumber, flour, wheat, building stone, or potatoes.
Someone wrote that the "teachers" salaries instead of being drawn on the bank were drawn on wheelbarrows." How resourceful were those early teachers!
Even a new alphabet, called the Deseret Alphabet, of thirty-two letters, was created for the use of the Latter-day Saint people.
Probably the purpose for creating this alphabet was to "simplify the reading of the English language." The new alphabet, although it possessed many meritorious features, was used very little even in pioneer days, and was finally abandoned. The "Charter granted Salt Lake City in 1851 by the Territorial Legislature provided for the establishment and regulation of schools.
Similar provisions were made in the charters of all the early Utah towns." By 1850 "common schools were 737 beginning in all parts of the city for the winter." 'Then the Territory of Utah next came into existence. September 23, 1851, addressing the Legislative Assembly, Governor Young "advocated the encouragement of primary schools and suggested that the Legislature consider the propriety of requiring the inhabitants of each neighborhood to maintain a school." American Fork is credited with being the first town to sponsor a school "entirely' supported by taxes." It was the first school in Utah that was free to all children. HE history of Latter-day Saint schools of higher learning, headed by the Brigham Young University in Provo, shows that the pioneers were staunch friends of religious education, 'which should be free from prejudice and free for all." Karl G. Maeser's name is indeed "a benediction to the name of education" in Utah. SPELLING LINE-UP What an important place he made! Beloved, master teacher, he did a great part in establishing schools throughout Deseret, and for about sixteen years "he directed the growth of the Brigham Young Academy at Provo." He was called by President Brigham Young to direct this institution which opened for instruction in January 1876, although Brother Maeser did not begin his work as a teacher until April of that year. He was a cultured gentleman in every way, an orator, "a technician in character building," who understood and endured hardships cheerfully, served unselfishly, and enshrined himself to his students forever. In the midst of all this college making, the Utah State Agricultural College was established at Logan as a land-grant school.
This college was founded by the Territorial Legislature to take advantage of a succession of Federal Acts which provided for support of agricultural colleges and experiment stations throughout the Nation.
Instruction was started in the fall of 1890, with nine teachers and 135 students. The university programs were supplemented by Latter-day Saint junior colleges and by mission schools established and directed by other religious denominations.
These schools, which resembled our present-day high schools in some respects, helped to prepare students for work in the universities and gave others a background for beginning their life's responsibilities.
What a foundation in education has been made in Utah from "Deseret to Centennial!" And as Daniel Webster once said, "We live in the past by a knowledge of its history, and in the future by hope and anticipation." As we face the future, let us think of the brave and valiant ones who made this firm foundation. May the educators of the future realize that excellence comes from planning over a long period of time, as the pioneers did. May they rededicate themselves, may their classes be as miracles; may the teachers of the future enrich the vision of the students and thereby shape characters and destiny.  FIRST SCHOOL- 1847
Eva Willes Wangsgaard Their schoolhouse built of logs, a single room, A floor of earth well-packed by unshod feet, A roof of mud made bright by sunflower bloom, A window casement near a dusty street; A paddle made of wood to serve as chart With pasted letters cut from an outworn book And scraps of papers, poems learned by heart And copied on the flat stones from a brook; And lacking these, a happy, outstretched hand Became a slate where charcoal could write The numbers which a child must understand Before he solved a problem to recite  How could they see with eyes still hunger-blurred An empire dormant in the written word?