[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Bless the Crawford]
belief,  is  the  blessing  of  the  food. 
We  are  advised  in  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom that  all  food  is  to  be  used  "with 
prudence  and  thanksgiving/'  and 
many  passages  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  emphasize  the  obligation 
and  the  opportunity  of  giving  thanks 
"for  whatsoever  blessing  ye  are 
blessed  with." 
In  the  complicated  rush  of  our 
modern  ways,  it  is  a  practice  of  great 
reverence  and  dignity  for  the  father 
of  the  household  to  preside  at  the 
family  table  and  designate  someone 
to  give  thanks  unto  the  Lord. 
Even  a  little  child  can  offer  a  bless- 
ing of  great  sincerity,  if  the  true 
meaning  of  the  prayer  is  explained. 
Asking  a  blessing  on  the  food  should 
never  be  a  mere  matter  of  routine, 
to  be  quickly  accomplished  and  for- 
gotten. Rather  it  should  be  a  sin- 
cere and  devoted  expression  of  grati- 
tude, whether  it  is  uttered  by  the 
grandfather  in  the  home  or  by  a 
child  who  is  petitioning  the 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  first  time. 
The  blessing  asked  upon  the  food, 
Page  752 
if  properly  done,  serves  not  only  to 
bring  the  family  nearer  to  the  spirit 
of  true  obedience,  but  it  also  helps 
the  members  of  the  family  to  feel 
their  own  unity  and  their  precious 
nearness  to  each  other.  Then  the 
meal  may  commence  with  thanksgiv- 
ing, and  the  atmosphere  more  easily 
becomes  permeated  with  love  and 
dignity.  Many  mothers  have  found 
that  it  is  much  easier  to  establish 
desirable  conversation  habits  and 
better  table  manners  after  the  bless- 
ing has  been  asked  with  reverence 
and  sincere  gratitude. 
In  some  families  it  is  the  custom 
to  give  thanks  for  more  than  the 
food  which  has  been  prepared.  If 
relatives  or  friends  are  present,  a 
special  word  of  appreciation  for  their 
presence  may  be  expressed,  and  thus 
the  ancient  and  honored  custom  of 
breaking  bread  and  sharing  food  with 
loved  ones  may  be  renewed  and  the 
bonds  of  kinship  and  friendship  may 
thus  become  stronger.  More  beauty 
and  more  strength  are  added  to  our 
daily  living  by  the  gracious  sim- 
plicity of  this  prayer. 
Each  household,  acknowledging 
gratitude  to  the  Supreme  Being,  and 
constituting  a  unit  of  the  commun- 
ity and  of  the  state,  thus  becomes  an 
integral  part  of  our  country  and  con- 
tributes to  the  religious  integrity  of 
the  Republic.     If  America  is  to  be

EDITORIAL  753 
known  as  a    Christian  nation,  then  Behold  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  what- 
it   must  acknowledge   and    worship  fever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  be  free 
,i      T       j     r  .  i      i      ?     rpi  •    m         if.  from  bondage,   and   from    captivity,    and 
the  Lord  of  the  land.    This  thought  from  a„  otger  nations  und<£  hJven>  if 
is  beautifully  expressed  in  the  Book  they  win  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land, 
of  Mormon  in    words   of  great   sig-  who  is  Jesus  Christ  (Ether  2:12). 
nificance:  V.  P.  C. 
GEMS 
Ora  Pate  Stewart 
My  cellar  is  a  vault  ...  a  treasury, 
Where  amber  jewels  of  peach  and  apricot 
Are  mounted  with  the  golden  filigree 
Of  ripened  corn.     I  count  it  not 
As  one  who  counts  his  gold,  but  still  I  gaze 
In  thankfulness  upon  it,  and  in  praise 
For  jellied  rubies,  labeled  plum  and  cherry, 
The  liquid  amethyst  of  grape  and  berry, 
Jade  beads  of  peas  and  beans;  and  emerald  gherkins; 
Sardonyx  mottled  mince  in  wooden  firkins.  .  .  . 
Rare  gems,  distilled  from  shrubs  and  vines  and  trees  . 
"Lay  not  up  ...  .  treasures"  was  not  meant  for  these. 
A  HOME 
Thelma  Ireland 
It  is  nice  to  have  a  house  built  new, 
According  to  one's  wishes, 
And  carry  out  the  color  scheme 
.  With  curtains,  rugs,  and  dishes. 
But  give  to  me  an  old  farmhouse 
With  the  rooms  built  on  in  tiers, 
To  accommodate  a  family 
That  increases  with  the  years; 
A  house  with  family  albums 
And  old  portraits  here  and  there, 
And  a  raveled,  crocheted  tidy 
Hiding  scars  on  some  old  chair. 
No,  it  may  not  be  artistic, 
Sort  of  motley,  as  a  whole, 
But  give  me  a  house  that's  lived  in, 
A  house  that  has  a  soul.

Where  Trails  Run  Out 
Anna  Prince  Redd 
Chapter  10 
[The  incidents  of  this  story  are  true,  and  the  characters  authentic.  The  information 
has  been  carefully  gleaned  from  diaries,  journals,  and  personal  interviews. — Ed.] 
Synopsis:  A  company  of  twenty-four 
young  men  and  two  families — James  L. 
Davis,  his  wife,  Mary,  and  their  four  chil- 
dren; Henry  H.  Harriman,  his  wife,  Eliza- 
beth, and  their  five  children — are  called 
to  explore  a  route  from  Cedar  City,  in 
Southern  Utah,  to  San  Juan  County.  The 
two  families  are  to  remain  in  San  Juan  and 
prepare  for  the  coming  of  the  main  com- 
pany. 
The  company,  after  much  suffering,  fi- 
nally reaches  Moenkopi.  The  Davis  fam- 
ily remains  there  and  the  others  go  on  to- 
ward the  San  Juan.  Scouts  return  to 
Moenkopi  and  report  the  arrival  of  the 
Harrimans  on  the  San  Juan. 
The  James  L.  Davis  family  and  the 
scouts  leave  to  join  the  Harrimans,  and 
Mary  and  Elizabeth  are  reunited.  Mary's 
baby  is  born  after  a  difficult  confinement. 
The  families  at  Montezuma  are  destitute 
for  food.  Four  scouts  from  the  main 
company  arrive,  but  bring  no  supplies. 
James  and  Mary  Davis,  returning  to  their 
homestead  from  a  visit  with  the  Harri- 
mans, are  confronted  with  trouble. 
"Pa!     It's  Indians!"  Ted  Davis  cries. 
A  
small,  startled  group,  in  sight 
of  their  lonely,   dark   home, 
James   Davis  and  his  family 
stood  and  faced  the  Indians,  three 
of  them,  young  and  belligerent,  ar- 
rogantly possessive. 
"How!"  James  Davis  cried.  "Dis- 
cause?" 
"How!"  The  Indians  repeated 
his  greeting.  "Discause,"  they  said, 
affirmatively. 
James  turned  to  his  son.  "My  boy 
Ted,  you  take  your  sister  by  the 
hand  and  go  to  meet  them,"  he  in- 
Page  754 
structed  in  a  quiet  voice.  "We 
have  no  cause  to  fear.  They  say  they 
are  cold.  We  will  ask  them  in  to 
get  warm  at  our  fire." 
Ted  looked  at  his  mother  in  ques- 
tioning surprise.  Her  lips  formed 
the  word  yes,  and  she  gave  Emily  a 
little  push  toward  him. 
But  Emily  drew  back,  hiding  her 
face  in  her  mother's  skirts,  whimper- 
ing in  fear. 
Mary  whispered  to  her,  "Be 
brave,  sweet  one,  your  papa  will  not 
let  the  Indians  hurt  his  little  girl. 
You  can  show  the  Indians  that  we 
put  our  trust  in  Heavenly  Father." 
Emily  lifted  her  head  and  gave 
her  hand  to  the  big  brother  whom 
she  adored.  Ted  clasped  her  fingers 
tightly,  and  they  went  forward  till 
they  were  at  the  edge  of  the  door- 
yard.  James  and  Man'  came  behind 
them,  each  with  a  child  by  the  hand, 
the  baby  held  comfortably  against 
its  father's  shoulder. 
The  Indians  showed  plainly  that 
they  were  surprised  at  the  manner 
of  their  approach. 
As  they  got  closer  to  the  Indians, 
Ted  tried  to  speak  to  them,  but  his 
tongue  was  stiff  with  fright.  Emily 
tugged  at  his  hand  to  remind  him 
that  he  should  greet  the  Indians. 
Ted  opened  his  mouth,  but  no 
sound  would  come.  He  tried  again, 
but  did  no  better.  Emily  pinched 
his  arm,  looking  at  him  in  surprise. 
Ted  looked  at  her  helplessly.  To  save

WHERE  TRAILS  RUN  OUT  755 
his  life,  he  could  not  speak  or  move.  fear.    It  had  been  such  a  paralyzing 
He  had  never  known  fear  in  his  life  thing  that  he  had  been  powerless 
before,  and  could  not  understand  it  against  it.  But  acting  like  a  sissy  was 
now.    Usually,  if  things  threatened  his  own  fault.     His  little  sister,  six 
him,  he  became  angry.  And  under  years  old,  was  a  better  pioneer  than 
that  impulse  he  would  tackle  any-  he  was! 
thing.    This  feeling  of  fear  left  him  He  gave  the  coals  a  poke,  blowing 
helpless  and  ashamed.  on  them  with  short,  angry  breaths, 
Emily  pulled  her  hand  from  his  until  they  flamed  to  a  blaze.  Emily 
stiff  fingers  and  marched  straight  knew  her  big  brother  was  afraid, 
up  to  the  scowling  Indians.  She  That  was  why  she  ran  ahead  to 
smiled  an  entrancing  smile  and  meet  the  ugly  smart  alecks  of  In- 
asked,  "Discause?"  She  shuddered,  dians,  he  thought,  and  felt  like  run- 
suggesting  that  they  must  be  very  ning  away  and  hiding  himself, 
cold.  "O-000--0,"  she  said,  and  James,  keenly  sensitive  to  his  chil- 
smiled  again.  dren  and  their  needs,  saw  the  drama 
The  pantomime  was  engaging  and  that  was  taking  place  in  Ted's  soul, 
fearless.    To  the  Indians  it  was  un-  so  plainly  written  in  his  face.  "My 
expected.     They  looked  the  white  boy  Ted,"  he  spoke  naturally,  as  un- 
family  over  with  pleased  approval,  concerned  as  he  would  have  been 
"Discause,"  they  agreed,   "muncha  if  he  were  going  to  tell  the  boy  to 
discause!"     They   repeated  Emily's  do  his  chores,  "you  take  the  Indians 
pantomime    of     being    cold,     and  to  the  barrel  down  by  the  canal,  so 
laughed  at  each  other's  performance,  they  can  wash  for  supper.  It's  so  darn 
dark  they'll  not  be  able  to  find  it 
"pMILY  reached  out  her  hand  and  alone.    And  by  the  time  you  and 
took  hold  of  the  nearest  Indian's  those  big  fellers  get  back,  your  Ma 
sleeve.     "You  can  get  warm  at  our  will  have  the  food  on  the  table." 
house,"  she  said.  "Can't  he  papa?"  Ted  looked  up  at  his  father  with 
The  Indians  hesitated.  James  said  adoring  eyes.    "You  bet,  Pa,"  he  an- 
"How!"  again,  and  opened  his  door,  swered.     "That's  just  what  I    was 
Mary  followed  him,  and  at  the  door  goin'  to  do!" 
she  turned  and  motioned  for  the  In-  He  motioned  for  the  Indians  to 
dians  to  follow  her  into  the  house,  follow  him,  and    they  all    left  the 
Mechanically,  Ted  followed  the  In-  house.    Pa  don't  think  I'm  a  cow- 
dians.    He  uncovered  the  coals  from  ard!  he  thought,   pride  in   himself 
the  ashes,  piled  the  split  pitch-pine  returning  as  he  walked  along  in  the 
kindlings  on  the  darkened  coals  and  lead,  an'— an'  I'm  not!     I  just  lost 
blew  them  to  life  with  long  trem-  my  nerve! 
bling  breaths.  He  was  grateful  for  Not  knowing  that  Ted  could 
something  to  do  that  would  help  speak  their  language,  the  Indians  be- 
him  hide  the  tears  he  could  not  gan  talking  freely,  laughing  and  fool- 
choke  back.  He  had  been  a  cow-  ing  with  each  other.  "The  white 
ard,  outside,  and  now  he  was  acting  man  is  good,"  they  decided.  "The 
like  a  baby.  He  brushed  his  sleeve  boy  is  brave.  The  little  papoose  is 
across  his  eyes,  more  ashamed  of  nice.  She  is  very  happy  and  nice!" 
his  tears  than  he  was  of  his  show  of  Ted  smiled,  and  was  tempted  to