[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A Man Must Bailey]
NOVEMBER 1947 A MAN MUST WORK Alice Morrey Bailey IT was hard for Helen not to open up her heart to hope again. The day was perfect for Thanksgiving.
Outside the bare branches of trees rose from carpets of bronze-yellow leaves, to stand purple against the clear, turquoise sky.
There was a turkey in the oven, a pumpkin pie cooling on a grate and all the "fixings" in the refrigerator. Ranee's bass voice was roaring, "Oh, What a Beautiful Morning" in the bath- room, but for Helen it was a day of last resort after a year of frustration. She hadn't known what it would be like to be a doctor's wife. "Which towel do I use?"
Ranee interrupted his song to shout.
Your own, Dumb, Helen thought.
Aloud she called back, "The one on the south rack." If this was to be the last day she would play it straight and fair, and right up to the hilt. No one would ever say it was her fault their marriage failed.
Ranee came out of the bathroom, slipping the knot into his necktie. He came over to tip her face to his for a kiss, and her heart turned over.
Score one for marriage, she thought. He might even say he loved her, but he didn't. "Where's my anatomy book?" he asked, and her heart registered zero. "What is this, mutiny? I thought you were going to help me with dinner." "Can't.
Have to assist with an operation in the morning.
Have to brush up on my anatomy." "Ranee, no one knows anatomy like you do." That I humbly acknowledge, but this is a lip cancer that has spread into the fascia of the neck. Cut one artery there and the whole field is flooded." "Ugh! Ranee, do you have to be so graphic?” Rance went into the studio and closed the door, without answering.
Helen looked at it with hatred. It was a long established rule that when Ranee studied there were to be no interruptions. She hated the books behind that door. She even hated the stethoscope that dangled so casually from his pocket, and the little black bag that went everywhere with him.
This was to be my day, she thought bitterly. It was the first anniversary of their wedding, but did he remember? Not as of eleven a.m. on this fine Thursday. And would she remind him? She would not. She had reminded him of every holiday since their marriage, to say nothing of various dinners and scores of special occasions.
This one he had to think of all by himself, and if he didn't it was the end!
Without exception, he had spent the anniversaries and holidays riding ambulances, delivering babies, answering night calls, and performing emergency operations.
What good was it to be connected with the largest firm in the state when he was the junior member and the leg-man for the whole outfit?
When she pointed it out to him, he answered: "But think of all the valuable Page 739 experience I'm getting.
This is all right, Baby.
This is swell." Well, it isn't swell for me, she thought, slamming the oven door. Why had he married her at all, if all he wanted was to put her light under a bushel? She could have married any one of dozens Hilliard Baker for one, whose father was a banker. Betty Fenn, who had married him, had her own car, scads of clothes, and was the young social matron of the town.
Hilliard was attentive to Betty and there were parties and dances every night. Why had Rance wanted her if she was to be nothing except part of the furnishing for his house the tap you could turn on and off, the toaster, to burn hot or cold as he desired, a chair that could sit Inanimate and still as he wished? I have to calm down, she reminded herself. She had to be honest. She hadn't wanted Hilliard Baker. She had wanted Rance. 'This was pure jealousy not of people, but of time-consuming work. It was loneliness. A person could be very lonely in a world of people. At any rate, there was still the dinner, and there was the afternoon ahead, and the evening.
Helen gave herself a mental shaking and began spreading pimento cheese in the hollows of crisp white celery.
This was really going to be a dinner! She would fix the sweet potatoes with marshmallows. At one o'clock Rance came out to get a drink of water. "Um! Good!" he pronounced, sniffing the odors of the kitchen. He had to peep into the oven at the turkey, and, if Helen hadn't caught him in time, he would have pinched the crust of the pie. "How soon is dinner? I'm carrying in, and these aromas are devastating to my will power." "At two o'clock one more hour." "Sixty whole minutes? I don't think I can bear it, but it will work out just right. One more hour with Morris will just about do it."
Morris was the anatomy text. He went back to the study, this time closing the door reluctantly after a rueful wink and grin at Helen. She set the table with a lighter heart, getting out her wedding silver and lace, and making an attractive centerpiece of fruit apples and pears, peaches and grapes, sprinkled with nuts and small, colored candies, pouring from a horn of plenty she had shaped and gilded days before. It looked classic on a mirror ringed with leaves and blue plums. HEN Rance came out, he whistled in surprise and examined the horn with flattering interest. "So! You made it yourself! How clever!" "Oh, Rance, I had a terrible time making it come right with that papier-mache." "Why didn't you tell me? I'd have got some casting plaster from surgery. I might even have made it myself. I'm pretty handy putting on a cast, you know.", "You'd have been too busy, Rance. You'll just have time to change while I'm serving the dinner." "Right," he said, and went to the bedroom.
When he came out, handsome and distinguished, the turkey was on the table, little bubbles of juice still sliding under the transparent golden skin, the dressing emitting sage and onion-laden 

  NOVEMBER 1947 A MAN MUST WORK steam, and the rolls hot under a napkin.
Sweet potatoes and celery were flanked by buttered Brussels sprouts and cranberry sauce, and the pie, heaped with whipped cream, was waiting in the kitchen to be served later. "You should try the view from this altitude," said Rance. "It's simply ravishing!" His praise made all her efforts worthwhile, and Helen found resentment slipping away fast. "What are we going to do after dinner, Rance?" she asked, as he slid her chair under her. "Follow your prescription," Rance said, "take in a show, go to a dance, or just loll around and catch up on a little love-making.
Whatever you say." "Oh Rance!" she decided, "I only want one thing to be with you!" Tt was going to be a good day, after all, not the last day. It was going to be all right. "I'm so thankful for you, Rance," she said. "And I for you!" BUT it wasn't all right.
Rance was actually raising the knife to carve the turkey when the telephone rang. "PIL get it," he said, and Helen waited, her blood jelling in her veins. "Hello? Dr.
Moore speaking," and, after a pause, "I'll be right there." "Rance, you can't go without eating," Helen protested as he passed the table on the way to the study. "Hand me my coat," Rance said, and his voice was almost curt. "Rance, this is Thanksgiving!" "And this is an emergency!" He was gone.
