[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: They give enthusiasm Father]
working  with  them.    They  give  en-  orphans  and  make  the  widow's  heart 
thusiasm,  spirit,  and  refinement  to  to  rejoice." 
the  things  they  touch.    One  of  the         Preliminary    to    the   accomplish- 
great  joys  which  come  to  me  in  my  ment  of  this  assignment  is  the  ardu- 
Welfare  service  is  the  association  I  ous  task  of  providing  clothing,  food 
have  with  the  General  Presidency  of  and  fuel  for  those  in  need.  In  large 
the  Relief  Society— Sister  Spafford,  measure  this  is    done  on  Welfare 
Sister  Sharp,  and  Sister  Garff— and  production  projects.  I  would  like  to 
the  members  of  the  Relief  Society  make  a  little  explanation  about  the 
General  Board.    I  am  persuaded  that  relationship  of  the  Relief  Society  to 
they  are  among  the  elect  daughters  this  production  program  and  their 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.    They  are  responsibility  in  it. 
able  and  accomplished  women,  and 
they  have  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  'PHE    annual   Church-wide    Wel- 
Jesus  Christ  in   their  souls,  which  fare  production   budget  is  pre- 
clothes  them  with  charity,  humility,  pared  by  the  General  Church  Wel- 
and  willing  and  obedient  spirits.  fare  Committee.    The  committee  is 
Not  only  do  I  love  the  Relief  So-  guided  by  the  First  Presidency    of 
ciety  workers,  but  I  love  the  Relief  the  Church.    They  (the  members  of 
Society  work,  particularly  that  part  the  First  Presidency)   approve  the 
of  it  which  distinguishes  the  Relief  budget   (1)    as  to  its  nature  (that 
Society's  assignment  from  those  giv-  is,  as  to  the  things  included  in  it), 
en  to  other  Church  auxiliary  organ-  (2)  as  to  its  size  (that  is,  the  quan- 
Page  723

724  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
tities  to  be  produced),  (3)  as  to  Relief  Society  work,  some  of  it  does 
where  it  is  to  be  produced,  and  (4)  not  measure  up  to  that  high  stand- 
as  to  the  general  manner  in  which  ard. 
it  is  to  be  produced.  All  three  mem-  From  the  foregoing  it  is  clear  that 
bers  of  the  First  Presidency  have  the  general  officers  of  the  Relief  So- 
already  met  with  members  of  the  ciety  have  a  great  deal  to  do  with 
General  Committee  and  its  staff,  the  preparation  of  the  Welfare  pro- 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  the  duction  budget.  They  do  not,  how- 
General  Relief  Society  Presidency,  ever,  take  that  budget  direct  to  stake 
and  have  so  approved  the  proposed  and  ward  Relief  Societies.  The  as- 
Church-wide  production  budget  for  signments  to  these  organizations 
1948.  In  the  office  of  the  General  reach  them  over  the  following  route: 
Committee  that  budget  is  now  be-  Under  the  direction  of  the  Gen- 
ing  readied  for  presentation  to  the  eral  Committee,  a  fair  portion  of  the 
Welfare  regions  and  the  stakes  and  Church-wide  budget  is  accepted  for 
wards  of  the  Church.  production  by  each  of  the  nineteen 
I  tell  you  these  things  that  you  Welfare    regions    of    the    Church, 
may  know  with  what  care  the  Wei-  (Stakes  not  in  regions  receive  their 
fare  work  of  the  Church  is  directed,  budgets    direct   from    the   General 
and  that  it  receives  the  personal  at-  Committee.    Welfare  production  in 
tention  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  missions  is  directed  by  the  mis- 
the  Church,  as  do  the  missionary  sion  presidents,  pursuant  to  instruc- 
work,  salvation  for  the  dead,  and  tions  from  the  General  Committee 
the  other  great  Church  programs.  It  given    in   special   bulletins   dealing 
is  part  and  parcel  of  the  fundamental  with  Welfare  work  in  the  missions.) 
program  of  the  Church  for  the  sal-  Representing  the   regions    in  ac- 
vation  and  exaltation  of  its  members,  cepting  the  regional  budget  are  the 
Among  the  most  valued  advisers  regional  council  (consisting  of  all 
to  the  General  Church  Welfare  the  stake  presidents  in  the  region), 
Committee  in  the  preparation  of  the  the  regional  bishops'  council  (con- 
budget  is  the  General  Presidency  of  sisting  of  the  chairman  of  the  re- 
the  Relief  Society  and  their  Board,  spective  stake  bishops'  councils  in 
Particularly  is  this  true  with  respect  the  region ) 
,  and  the  stake  Relief  So- 
to food  and  clothing.  They  prepared  ciety  presidents  of  the  stakes  in  the 
the  food  distribution  guide  from  region.  These  people  should  be  care- 
which  we  work  out  the  food  budget,  ful  to  make  sure  that  the  regional 
They  advised  as  to  what  clothing  budget  as  accepted  is  consistent  with 
items  should  be  placed  on  the  bud-  the  natural  resources  and  prevailing 
get  for  production,  and  as  to  the  conditions  controlling  production  in 
manner  in  which  and  where  they  the  region,  as  also  with  the  estab- 
should  be  produced.  It  is  my  per-  lished  Welfare  production  projects 
sonal  hope  that  they  will  soon  be  and  other  facilities  already  set  up  or 
given  a  greater  responsibility  than  in  the  making  within  the  region, 
they  have  hitherto  borne  in  super- 
vising the  production  of  clothing  for  '  JNDER  a  similar  procedure,  each 
the  Welfare  Program,  because  while  stake  in  the  region  accepts  a  fair 
most  of  it  is  well  done  and  looks  like  portion  of  the  regional  budget,  and