[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Reading and Writing in Hart]

Reading and Writing in Deseret Anna Boss Hart Member, Relief Society General Board Illustrations by Dawn Andrus HAT a record of achievement is the story of the Latter-day Saint pioneers from the time of Deseret to the Centennial!
During this greatest of years the Centennial Year, the lives of the pioneers have been re-evaluated, hearts have been turned to their greatness and achievement. We have marveled at their clear vision, their love of the graces and refinements of life, their zest for learning, their eagerness for searching truth, and their accomplishment. Our present streamlined educational system, with its.
Towering buildings, its elaborate methods of instruction, its rigidly trained group of specialized administrators and teachers, is a contrast to the humble school of the pioneers, with its primitive buildings, its meager equipment, its precious, but simple course of study, and its poorly equipped students.
After the first thought was given to the tilling of the soil, the next thought was given to the developing of the soul, which must also have food and sustenance. The pioneers recognized that power would be theirs through knowledge. How symbolic was the name they selected  "Deseret"  meaning honeybee! As the honeybee has come to mean industry, the pioneers sucked the honey of truth and built a hive of industry and wealth  temporal and spiritual. Page 732
The urge for education penetrated the souls of the early pioneers before they left Nauvoo. The Prophet Joseph Smith, a great educator, preached the furtherance of learning with eloquence, strength, fervor, keen desire, zest, and earnestness. In 1831, two leading elders were given the assignment "to do the work of printing and of selecting and writing books for the schools of this Church, that little children also may receive instruction" (D. & C. 55:4). The University of Nauvoo came into being in 1840. Arts, sciences, and "learned professions" were planned for the curriculum. The Nauvoo City Charter obtained by the saints provided for the "first municipal university in America." One of the first free schools in Illinois was opened by Parley P. Pratt. At Winter Quarters, during the frigid winter of 1847, a log house with dirt floor and dirt roof was converted into a schoolroom, with Emmeline B.
Wells as the instructor. The prophetic urge for education was also in the heart of Brigham Young.
Before leaving Winter Quarters he urged the pioneers to bring "'a copy of every available treatise on education every book, map, chart, or diagram that may contain interesting, useful, and attractive matter to gain the attention of children and cause them to learn to read; and every historical, mathematical, philosophical, geographical, READING AND WRITING IN DESERET geological, astronomical, scientific, and all other variety of useful and Interesting writing, maps, etc."  can imagine the many saints who "heeded his words" and how many old textbooks found their way into precious comers with rare china, a priceless wedding dress, or a bit of old lace. HEN the Pioneers came to the valleys of among the first institutions to be Provided were schools and seminaries for the training of the saints, Organized in the Rocky Mountains! At happy students Must have trudged the first dirt paths to that school!
Writes that Mary Jane Dilworth had nine Pupils on had a N speller, half a q arithmetic book, across the plains. Mary Jane Dilworth arrived in Salt Lake Valley with the second company of pioneers, in September 733 be remembered as the first teacher recorded in the history of Deseret and the one who Placed the "first stone in the foundation of the Present magnificent Which Utah is One teacher was given a willow chair which the schoolboys made. Schoolteacher, arrived at Brown's Fort, October 27, 1849. She states winter she taught school in a log house: We had to collect letters from Scraps of papers and old books; these We pasted on paddles. We also made letters on the side of our hands. In this way the children learned to read. Six months after the founding of Manti, in 18 50, Jesse W. Fox opened a school "for juveniles, and was reading to the adults, evenings, by the light of a tallow-dip and the campre." Lydia Stanley was the teach- r RUNNING FOR A DRINK OF WATER er who opened a school in "a hut of logs and brush on the banks of the Jordan."
What a contrast in school buildings from the humble shelters of early pioneer days to the spacious and stately buildings of today! GCHOOLS were held in all types of buildings. The first school was housed in a military tent shaped like a wigwam.
Groves and boweries were used, private houses, and public buildings. 'The log house was common, with "roof garden of mud and sunflowers; a dirt floor packed hard by feet, which were mostly bare."
Sometimes the floors, consisting of split logs, were smoothed with an adze.
Sometimes the walls were split logs "laid close together and covered with cedar bark or rushes that grew about the marshes."
Windows were sometimes covered with cloth greased with fat.
This was used instead of glass.
Sometimes they were covered with white cloth to admit light.' One schoolhouse was part of a fort wall, with portholes for defense against Indians.
Adobe houses were often used. The red ones were especially colorful. The size varied from small twelve-by-twelve foot rooms to two-story frame buildings with the stairs to the upper story built on the outside wall.
Even garrets were used, and a "lean-to-room near the United Order storehouse." George A. Smith's first school is pictured in his diary, March 3d, 1851: My wicky-up is a very important establishment, composed of brush, a few slabs and 3 wagons. A fire in the center and a lot of milking stools, benches and logs placed around, two of which are fashioned with buffalo robes. It answers for various purposes, kitchen, schoolhouse, dining room, meeting house, council house, sitting room, reading room, storeroom. To see my school some of the cold nights in February, scholars standing around my huge campfire, the wind broken off by the brush and the whole canopy of heaven for covering. George A.
Smith was a colorful figure conducting classes "by the light of the campfire during the founding of the far southern settlement of Parowan." Ada Arvilla Burke Earl, born in Farmington, Utah, May 28, 1857, said in her diary: We started school at a very early age and I remember carrying bread and a jug of milk for our lunch and Mrs.
Lyman would give us dishes and spoons to eat our bread and milk in.
Another pioneer wrote: When nothing better was available for the mid-day meal, the children went out and dug sego roots. The schools created an atmosphere of industry, co-operation, and happiness. The pupils made their 

  NOVEMBER 1947 READING AND WRITING IN DESERET own entertainment and jollity. What fun they would have on Friday afternoons at the "spelling down" matches! Then there were declamation contests, organ solos, singing programs, and occasional plays or concerts. In the Brigham Young School they would often fin-, ish up a Friday afternoon with the reading of the weekly paper made up entirely from contributions from the scholars and edited by one of them. Games played during recess might have been baseball, or steal-the-stick, or drop-the-handkerchief. "'At times we played Indian and made bows and arrows," says Lorenzo D.