EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Jubilee festivities are now drawing to a
close with the year, and soon they will be con-
sidered things of the past. We have seen, this
last twelve months, many magnificent sights
and pageants, that will be handed down to pos-
terity We have heard the flattering remarks
of respect, and beheld the many beautiful
gifts presented to our beloved Queen, from al-
most every nation upon the earth, and no Eng-
lish heart  can feel other than proud of these
tokens of esteem towards the illustrious
Sovereign whom the King of kings has spared
so long to govern her people.
	Bright as the year has been in many re-


[Column 1]

﻿spects, it has brought sorrow to many; England
has lost many of her noblest men, both in liter-
ary, political and social circles. The terrible
disaster at a theatre in Exeter, which resulted
in the death of so many people. and brought
misery to so many homes, alone makes this an
eventful year, and one long to be remembered
by the widows and orphans and friends of the
poor ill-fated victims. 
	A number of statues have been erected in
various parts of the kingdom as memorials of
the Jubilee, but the Imperial Institute, as I
have previously stated, is to be the National
Memorial, and many thousands of pounds have
been poured into its treasury from foreign
countries, as well as our own. It was proposed
by the Prince of Wales, that all classes, with-
out distinction of class, creed or race, should
unite to raise this tribute to Her Majesty, the
Queen, and donations as low as one shilling are
accepted. The Committee have laid down as
the basis of their programme, that "the pur-
pose and effect of the Institute is to advance
the commercial and industrial resources of
every part of the empire." They also propose
it shall include "collection of samples of pro-
duce, and of manufacturing industries, a
library for industrial, commercial and economic
study." A fully equipped map-room, for geo-
graphical and geological reference, a special
library for patents and inventions, and arrange-
ments for the "collection and diffusion" for the
benefit of intending emigrants and others; also
the fullest information in regard to the indus-
trial and material condition of the Colonies,
and of the particular direction in which they
are susceptible of further development; so that
it may be indicated that its operations will
probably be embraced within four chief sec-
tions, viz: Industries, Commerce, Technical and
Commercial Education, and Emigration. It
is now in course of erection at South Kensing-
ton, and, from appearances, I should say when
finished it will be a very fine building; the
good it will achieve remains to be proved.
	The Jubilee presents have all been taken to
St. James' Palace, and the public are allowed
to view them, without any fee being charged,
for a few weeks only, and one is amply repaid
for a visit.
	After passing through an enormous crowd
we found ourselves within the charmed interior
of a Palace that has great historical interest,
and on going up the old-fashioned stairs, the
first thing noticeable is a splendid oil painting 
of one of the kings of England, by a celebra-
ted painter. The first room contains a hand-
some pair of elephant's tusks, and some equally
handsome horse-trappings of cloth of gold and
the most exquisite embroidery; also an antique
dinner gong, which is suspended over a brass
head. Passing to the next room, there are
many costly gifts, far too numerous to mention;
the most conspicuous were as follows: A chair
of beautiful workmanship, executed by the
basket-makers of Wickham and presented by
the Mayor and the Aldermen of that place; a 
handsome round table, inlaid with mother of
pearl and precious stones; an ivory chair is also
shown; the back and seat are covered with em-
broidery worked in gold thread in a most ex-
quisite manner; the blending of colors in this
delicate work displayed the greatest taste we
have seen for some time. It was worked and
presented by a lady who resides at Hughenden
the estate of the late Earl of Beaconstield. The
plate presented by the children and grandchild-
ren of the Queen is very richly ornamented,
and very handsome, and a beautiful silver de-
sert service, from the servants of the royal
household, deserves credit for the taste dis-
played. I noticed in the Throne Room an
immense ostrich feather fan of snowy whiteness,
that was too large for anything but ornament.
It was in this room that the addresses of con-
gratulation were displayed, and there seemed

[Column 2]

no end to them. The Jubilee cake was on
view also. It was presented by Gunters, the
confectioners, who begged the Queen to accept
it, because they made the coronation cake fifty
years ago. By the courtesy of Mr. Gunter, we
inspected it before its presentation, and candid-
ly confess we never saw anything of its kind to
equal it before. It was over ten feet high, and
nine feet in circumference. There are medal-
lions of the Queen and the late Prince Consort
on either side; the crown, composed of gilt and
white satin is elevated on a pedestal under a
canopy, and is approached by dozens of steps
moulded in the icing. This canopy rests upon
four pillars, the base of each being guarded by
a lion; above this there are four heralds with
trumpets, who are proclaiming the Jubilee to
the world. The dove and an olive branch signi-
fying peace is the topmost ornament of this
exquisite gift. The beading of sugar round
this immense cake is composed of roses, sham-
rocks and thistles, typical of the three king-
doms, England, Ireland and Scotland. It is a
masterpiece of the confectioner's art, and does
great credit to Messrs. Gunters for the patience
in execu ing so beautiful a design, and it was
well worthy to grace the festival of the Jubilee.
It weighs over a quarter of a ton. After pass-
ing through many galleries which contain the
portraits of the English kings and queens for
ages back, by the beat masters of painting, we
again found ourselves in Pall Mall, well satis
fied with the visit we had paid. The grand
old Palace is now almost exclusively used for
levees, at which the Prince of Wales presides,
and all presentations are equivalent to pre-
sentations to Her Majesty.
	I promised to tell you my impressions of the 
American Exhibition that was held at Bromp-
ton, when I had visited it. It is now closing,
and seems to have been very successful. The
interior of the Exhibition is very nice. The
many useful and fancy articles for sale, new
inventions, and glimpses into American cus-
toms rendered it more than usually interesting,
particularly to those who hope to reside in
America in the future. The dried and pre-
served fruits looked especially tempting, and
made us confess, however unwilling, that their
mode of preserving fruits far excelled our En-
glish ways, and wherever we turned everything
was "so American" and so "nice" and so pe-
culiar to themselves, that it quite made us long
to fly away to the home where these niceties
came from. Consequently everything "Ameri-
can" is the rage just now.
	There is a very interesting picture gallery at
the Exhibition, and it contains a charming
picture of Miss Mary Anderson; also some
splendid scenes of battle. Two pictures took
my fancy greatly in the collection; one was
entitled, 'A Storm in the Rocky Mountains."
and the lights and shades in this picture were 
simply exquisite, and it was with regret that
I left it to gaze on others of less artistic value.
The other was the picture of a woman on the
brink of the river, and the despair that was
written upon her countenance reminded me
very forcibly of the poet; when he wrote:

	"Mad from life's history,
	Glad to death's mystery;
	Swift to be hurled,
	Anywhere, anywhere out of the world."

The statuary was also very nice. The enter-
tainment given by Colonel Cody was very in-
structive and amusing. The Indians, who
seemed to possess very intelligent faces, and
were finely built men, looked very picturesque
in their peculiar attire and still more peculiar
paint. Their swift horsemanship is a great
marvel. A settler is represented as coming to
take up his abode with them; the Indians, who
have been watching them, surprise them and
threaten to destroy them, when a party of
cow-boys come to the settlers' rescue, and finally

[Column 3]

the Indians retreat, and we are left to imagine,
as the children tell us, that they lived happy
ever after in good old story book fashion. After
the performance was over we were allowed to
inspect the scene of action, their wigwams and
tents; also the tents of the cow-boys, which
looked very clean, and were fixed up nattily
with rugs, and in some instances lace antima-
cassars were thrown over the chairs, which
somewhat surprised us, knowing how the oppo-
site sex usually denounce these "little effects"
in a room, to the terror of every good house-
wife. These cow-boys were very nice looking
and stalwart men, very pleasant to speak to,
and were certainly clever riders. Such horse-
manship is unequalled. Their breaking in wild
horses, who endeavored repeatedly to throw 
them, was especially commendable. The
grounds were very prettily laid out with flowers,
and the bands were very cheerful, the music
was very popular, and suited the tastes of the
visitors. The gardens were illuminated in the
evening, and it was then used as a fashionable
promenade for all classes. A switchback Rail-
way and tobogganing slide, attracted the juven-
ile portion of the visitors, and not a few elder-
ly people, who, for the novelty of the thing,
trusted themselves to this quick mode of travel-
ing, only to say when landed at their destina-
tion, "Never again". The manager of the "Wild
West" is Colonel W. F. Cody, and his portrait is
exhibited at almost every stationer's. He is
considered a very fine looking, handsome man.
The ladies are credited with this statement, but
even they are not unanimous on this point. Be
it as it may, he is the lion of the hour in aristo-
cratic circles; no garden party, or banquet, or
ball was considered complete this season unless
he was present, and this craze went so far that
it was fashionable to write his name upon the
corner of all invitation cards as an inducement
to those who received them to attend. However,
the season is now over for London, and Colonel
Cody will soon return to America, if reports
are to be believed, and nothing but sweet or
bitter memories, as the case may be, will be
left.
	The Queen is now staying at Balmoral with
the Princess Beatrice, who has just given birth
to an infant Princess. The Queen is much at-
tached to Princess Henry of Battenburg, who
is her youngest daughter, and her constant
companion, and upon her marriage Her Majesty
expressed a desire that she should remain with
her, and she has accordingly done so. The
Prince and Princess of Wales are having a
little trouble; their three daughters while
abroad have contracted the measles, but from
reports circulated, we may now hope they will
recover. The Princess has nursed them with
untiring devotion, and by so doing sets an ex-
ample to all mothers worthy of imitation, and
although a Princess, she never for one moment
forgets that she is a mother, and her children
claim her attention and care before all else. If
this noble lady and her husband live till March
10th, 1888, they will complete the 25th anni-
versary of their wedding-day, and many will
be the prayers that will ascend to heaven for
her happiness and prosperity.
	I must draw this to a close, hoping my en-
deavors to interest and amuse you have suc-
ceeded. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
