		DAVIS STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the East Boun-
tiful Meeting House Oct. 21, 1887, Prest.
Susan Grant presiding. Present on the stand
were Sisters B. W. Smith and Emma Bull
from Salt Lake City. After singing, Prayer
was offered by Sister Mary Clark. Continued
by singing, and minutes of previous conference
were read and approved.
	President Grant made opening remarks and
suggested hearing from the presidents of the
different branches. 
	Prest. Atkinson reported South Bountiful
Relief Society, spoke of the importance of be-
ing united, that we may have the Spirit of the
Lord to dwell with us. If we do not improve
our privileges the Lord will not bless us; hoped
to be able to stand all the trials we have to
pass through; if we strive to keep the Spirit of
the Lord, it will take us safely through.
	President Muir said, I feel to do all the good
I can; we are thinking of building a granary;
I ask the Lord to bless each one of you and
may His Spirit rest on all who speak.
	Coun. Nancy Willey represented East Boun-
tiful Society; said there are a few who are al-
ways present and ready to attend to all their
duties	
	Prest. Randall reported Centerville Society;
said she felt more and more interested in the
society the longer she was associated with it;
we feel well and united to try to look after the
poor, and our other duties; the Lord will ac-
cept our labors if we do the best we can.

[Column 2]
Sister Barkdall said she was thankful she
had a standing in this church and desired to live
so she could claim the blessings of the Lord;
we should make it a business of asking
the Lord to help us, if we are faithful in the
discharging of our duties, He will bless us and
we will have joy in our bosoms.
	Sister B. W. Smith said I have nothing new
to advance, but feel to encourage the sisters.
There are a great many who are sick and poor
and it is our duty to attend to them. Said she
was present at the first organization of the Re-,
lief Society by Joseph Smith; he used to meet
with us and she believed he would again.We
ought to be very good women, and live so
that we may he prepared for the good things
that await us. It is good to meet together for it
creates a love and union with one another; felt
that she never had any trials but what she
couId overcome; had felt that she had had sup-
ernatural strength given her to perform her
duties; I ask the Lord to bless you and our
brethren that are in prison, and may He bless
and help us to keep the faith.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown said she was proud to
have a standing in this church and associated
with the best women in the world; she had
passed through great trials, had never been
tried in principles of the gospel, we have all
we can do to keep ourselves and our children
right; when we rise up and speak by the spirit
of the Lord it will be edifying. It is my
prayer that we may overcome and live right in
the sight of the Lord.
	Coun. Mary Clark said it renews and en-
courages us to meet together; we can have rev-
elation if we live for it; it is the older ones that
should set an example. Feel and realize, that
the hand of the Lord is over us; we will be
blessed in looking after the poor; may we do
good continually; I feel to say in my heart God
bless you all.
	Prest. Grant said, we have had a good time
and will adjourn until 2 p m. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Brown.
	Afternoon meeting: Opened by singing.
Prayer by Prest. Layton. Singing.
	Sister Emma Bull said it is our privilege to
receive the Spirit of the Lord if we live for
it; if we accept these persecutions with the
spirit the Lord designs us to, it will do us good;
am quite sure we will never receive an exalta-
tion without working for it; I wish my sisters
would realize the necessity of doing their work
here; it is a great privilege we have in reliev-
ing the sick aud the poor, and let me enjoin it
upon you that whatever you do, do it well; if
it is teaching or anything else, if you cannot 
attend to it properly, let some one attend to it
who can; we are passing through a very severe
trial; we must cultivate the spirit of charity
aud not judge hastily; the Savior said “we
must not only be good but appear good” and
so live that we may be an example to the out-
side world also that we may be one with our
husbands; we are promised that we shall know
a great deal; realize sisters what great things
await us; strive to improve aud increase in
knowledge, etc.
	Sister B. W. Smith, said we should put away
pride, selfishness, and selfwill, and set our
houses in order; am glad to see so many young
mothers here; it is a great thing to be a mother
and have a family of children to raise; urged
upon mothers the necessity of setting a good
example before their children, attending to
family prayers etc; refered to the trials she had
passed through; said she felt to rejoice when
she saw temples reared, where we can do the
work for our dead, there is not a command-
ment of the Lord but what is good for us;
spoke of the necessity of taking care of the
poor, and instructing the young to be careful
and prudent, to keep their houses neat and
clean, that their homes may be a heaven to
their husbands and children; thought it was a

[Column 3]
good thing to keep a journal; don’t do anything
that will bring sorrow upon us, and live so as
to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord at all times.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman said, my desire is to
live so I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord; we
will be rewarded for what we do and should
be energetic in performing our duties; and we
should be prayerful; if we give a little we will
be blessed; it takes means to relieve the poor;
spoke of the snares that are laid for our chil-
dren; and the necessity of keeping a careful
watch over them; we should be very humble
and prayerful; this is the Kingdom set up in
the last days never more to be thrown down.
I pray God that He will strengthen and give
us His Spirit from day to day.
	Prest. Grant said “we have had a great deal
of good instruction; I saw Sister Eliza; she
sent her love to you all; we realize she presides,
over all the societies; I feel that we are blest
this day and have the Spirit of the Lord with
us; if we make up our minds to get up and
speak we will have good meetings; am glad to
see you young mothers here, it is where
you can get good instructions; teach your chil-
dren while they are young to have faith in the
Gospel; I realize that great responsibilities rest
upon us as mothers, we should try to improve
our children that they may grow up refined
and polite, and try to make our homes com-
fortable that when our children and grand chil-
dren visit us they may feel that the spirit of
the Lord is with us; take great pleasure in visit-
ing the different branches of the Society, and
if I can say a word of comfort to my sisters I
am glad. I want to speak of a little busiuess;
we need means; the Secretary is in need of a
new book, and would be glad to have the
presidents donate to help defray expenses; feel
that those who give will be blessed in giving;
don’t let us be weary in well doing. May the
blessings of God attend us in all our duties.”
	Prest. Layton said, ‘ I have a testimony to
bear, that this is the Church and kingdom of
God, and do what we may it will stand; let our
light so shine that we may set an example to
others. I desire to do all I can to help roll on
this work; have always responded to the calls
that have been made, and we ought to help
Sister Grant bear the expenses of the Stake.
It was a saying of Joseph Smith, that ‘the
liberal man lives by his liberality.’ I hope we
will try and keep the Sabbath day holy; read
the Bible and the Book of Mormon and learn
of the dealings of the Lord with those people;
we need to round up our shoulders and trust in
God; if we ever get to the top of the ladder
we will have to do our share of climbing. I
want to be an active member in doing good. I
ask the Lord to bless you, my sisters.”	
	Sister Jane Cook desired to bear her testi-
mony to this work; had always been taught to
respect the Sabbath; said she was one who was
dependent on the Relief Society; asked. the
Lord to bless those who render assistance to the
needy.
	Prest. Grant said, “We will adjourn our
conference for three months, to meet at Center-
ville.” .	’
	Singing, “Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction by Prest. Grant.
