EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	DURING the month of November there have
been several changes in the condition of affairs
here in Utah as regards Church property. It has 
been a subject for thought and reflection, and can
not but be commented upon by all those who pos-
sess an inkling of the sense of justice and right
It is comparatively easy to submit to injustice
when there is a prospect before one that the wrong
will be righted, but in the case of taking the accu-
mulation of means, the hard earnings of the poor
given as a free offering to the Lord's work, and
appropriating it to public uses, it seems too dread-
ful to be true.  Even the newspapers that have 
denounced "Mormons" in strong terms, take this
view, that Congress should, at an early day, look
into this important matter.
	In this matter of taking Church property,
women are as much interested as men are, and
feel it quite as deeply. They have paid tithing
and given donations after the pattern of the
ancient Saints, and they have taught their children
the principle of tithing, through which the Lord
has promised in the Scriptures special blessings to
be poured out upon His people. The government
of the United States cannot lay any claim to the
property the Lord has blest and increased in the
hands of His servants. But the same spirit ani-
mates the hearts of men of the world now-a-days
as in the religious persecutions of the past. We
hear of Elders who are preaching the Gospel be-
ing maltreated, whipped and abused, meetings
broken up, and innocent people persecuted be-
cause they entertain "Mormon" Elders; but so it
has ever been when the true Gospel has been
upon the earth, and notwithstanding all this the
kingdom is onward; light and knowledge and
power is increasing, and nought can stay the pro-
gress of the work of God established in these last
days, never to be thrown down or given to another
people.
	When one hears of the many great calamities
that transpire from time to time, accidents by land
and by sea, the human lives that are thus destroyed,
the many suicides and murders, it is almost too
much for the soul to contemplate, and it is no
wonder that the Prophet asked the Lord to shut
up the vision, when He showed him what would
come to pass in the last days. In many instances
the Lord has miraculously preserved the lives of
His Saints in their journeyings to and fro; an un-
seen hand has led them and preserved them from
dangers in perilous places. For this blessing, and
many others, the Saints should be exceedingly
grateful to their Heavenly Father, and as He has
guided His people in the past, and preserved them
when their enemies came upon them, so will He
lead them in the future out of the darkness into
light, and the trials and difficulties will He sanctify
to their good, and if they are despoiled of their
goods and property unjustly, and they rebel not
against His commandments, He will multiply His
blessings upon them even more abundantly than
before. The Saints are learning some difficult

[Column 2]

lessons, that require great patience and the truest
humility, and entire devotion to the faith they have
espoused; no half-heartedness, but a sublime
consecration of one's time and talents in the great 
and glorious work now being accomplished.  After 
all it seems so little one can do even in a lifetime,
but when there is a union of effort more good can
be effected.
	Sisters, let us not be weary in well doing, or
faint by the wayside, because of trials to be borne,
or temptations to be overcome; or allow ourselves
to be remiss in any of the duties assigned to us,
whether at home or in a public capacity, but press
forward to obtain the victory and blessing promised
to the faithful. If we seek for wisdom aright to
order our daily lives and conversation according
to the Gospel plan, it will be given, for the Savior
said, "If any lack wisdom let him ask of God,
who giveth to all liberally and upbraideth not." It
is this wisdom that we all need to carry us safely
over and through the dangerous and narrow places
 that the Saints of God at the present time have to
pass, and which, without divine help and assist-
ance, could not be done with safety.


