NOTES AND NEWS.

	Oscar Wilde is editing a new magazine for
English ladies—The Woman's World, a shilling
monthly.
	Miss Ellers, M. D., who is physician to the
Queen of Corea, at a salary of $18,000 a year,
has married Rev. D. A. Bunker.
	Miss Dorotha L. Dix, among her other good
deeds, succeeded in calling the attention of
Pope Pius IX to the shocking management of
the State Insane Asylum at Rome. In a brief
but somewhat audacious interview she pre-
sented such startling facts to the Pope, that he
at once took the subject in hand,ordered a new
institution and a new system,and thanked Miss
D .x warmly for her humane efforts.

[Column 2]

	Madame Benda, the mother of Madame
Modjeska, has just died in Poland. She had
lived to an advanced age, but was active and
energetic to the last. Madam Benda was a
woman of unusually strong character and she
brought up a large family, of which the dis-
tinguished actress was the youngest, to hard
work and self-respect. Madam Modjeska was
the prop and stay of her mother from the time
she was fifteen. The news of Madam Benda's
death was received while Madam Modjeska
was playing Juliet in Omaha, but she was not
informed of it until after the performance.
	The woman suffragists of Kansas lately
adopted a yellow ribbon as their distinctive
sign. They call it the "sunflower badge." They
say they chose it "because, as the sunflower fol-
lows civilization, follows the wheel-track and
the plow, so woman suffrage inevitably follows
civilized government." The suffragists of Mas-
sachusetts and Pennsylvania have taken up the
idea, and many of the "white ribbon women"
of the W. C. T. U. are knotting the gold-
colored ribbon with the white one at their but-
ton-holes. The two go well together.
	William Bilborough, an obscure member of
Spurgeon's church, who has lately died, had a
heart full of sincere though unobstrusive re-
ligion, and will be gratefully remembered by
many women. In a back street he kept a
second-hand furniture-shop, and as the streets
around are haunted by fallen women, he placed
in his window the following: "Notice: Any
poor and unfortunate sister that requires a good
home, will she kindly inquire within?" He
was the means of rescuing many, and he pre-
served a record of one hundred and forty-eight
who persevered, and are now honest women.
	Miss Emma Lazarus, the young Jewish poet
who has just died in New York, was the author
of a novel and a number of essays, but was
chiefly known by her poems. She was related
to Miss Gratz, the betrothed of Washington
Irving and the original of the character of Re-
becca in Scott's "Ivanhoe." Miss Lazarus was a
generous friend to the Jewish refugees who fled
to this country from Russian persecution, and
she took an active part in the movement to pro-
vide good music for working people free of
charge, which resulted in the establishment of
the "People's Concerts."
	Misses Fannie and Alice Orton, of Butte
Creek, California, have secured one hundred
and sixty acres apiece of government land.
Each has a residence upon her quarter section,
fences have been built and trees planted.
Plums, apples, prunes, and all the small fruits
grow admirably. Fine winter apples can be
grown and transported at a good profit, and in
a few years their lands will become very valu-
able. The Oroville Register says these girls
"are doing what many a young man might
be proud to do, in the way of securing them-
selves homes."
	Mrs. Clara L. Brewster, president of the
Linn County (Kan.) Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, tells an amusing story of her experience
as a tax-payer of Linn County. She says: "I
was riding to my school one morning (I was a
school-teacher), when a man called to me, and,
in an insulting manner, told me that I was
ordered to work out my road tax on such a day.
I told him I should be ready. There was no
need of telephone or telegraph to spread the
news. It flashed from house to house, at
lightning speed, that a school-teacher—a woman
—was going to work out her road tax. When
the day arrived, every one who had been noti-
fied was on hand, and I worked my road tax
—as Horace Greeley and President Cleveland
fought their battles in the great Rebellion, by
sending a substitute."


