IN MEMORIAM.
	The undersigned officers of the Relief Society and Prim-
ary Association of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, having
appointed a committee of one to draft resolutions of sym-
pathy and condolence, received and adopted the following
resolutions, as an expression of their sympathy and affection,
and in recognition of the noble life and excellent character
of the late Elizabeth Pugmire, who died at her residence in
St. Charles, Idaho, Nov. 13th, 1887:
	Inasmuch as it has pleased God in His infinite wisdom to
take from us a wise counselor, a kind and loving sister, a
fond and devoted mother, and an upright and faithful mem-
ber of the Church of Christ, whose life has been devoted
to her family, her friends and the kingdom of God; one
who in the darkest storms has never faltered, and while
passing through privations, suffering and afflictions through
the inhumanity of professing Christians—being driven from
Nauvoo in 1846—left with her first born upon the desert,
surrounded by others as helpless and destitute as herself,
while her husband, the late Jonathan Pugmire, with the
noble 500 had gone to Mexico to fight the battles of the
nation, that could not or would not protect these much
abused exiles from those who had despoiled them of their
goods, robbed them of their homes and killed their prophets
—under all these trying circumstances our brave and faith-
ful sister displayed the courage of her convictions, her de-
votion to her husband her religion and her God.  And when
the time came that she was called to share her home and
her husband with other wives, our sister was equal to the
occasion, and to the day of her death devoted herself, to
their interests and comfort, all dwelling together in peace,
love and union—an evidence to God, angels and men that
plural marriage is productive of the best interests and
greatest blessings of humanity, when entered upon and
conducted in the spirit of the Gospel.
	Sister Pugmire was the chief manager of the St. Charles
co-op store for many years, and in which she was eminently
successful.  As Secretary of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, and Counselor to the President of the Stake
Primary Association, our sister was appreciated by all who
knew her.  In the discharge of her duties she often traveled
from Woodruff in Utah, to Soda Springs in Idaho.  It was
on her last trip to Soda Springs that she was taken with a
congestive chill, from which she never recovered.  It may
be said she died in the Gospel harness, fully equipped in
fighting the good fight of faith, and died with a sure and
certain hope of a resurrection to eternal life.  Therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister Elizabeth Pugmire
we have lost a true and valued friend, a wise counselor,
and a ready and faithful worker in all that tends to the ad-
vancement of truth, wisdom, honor and intelligence.  Be
it
	Resolved, furthermore, That in this dispensation of the


Divine will, we have lost a noble mother in Zion, an exem-
plary Saint in all that is kind and loveable, faithful and
true.  And her sons and daughters and household have
suffered a loss that can never be replaced till they meet the
loved one again in the resurrection of the just.  Be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble and resolution
be sent to the family of our beloved sister; also to the
South Eastern Independent and the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.
	(Signed)
				J. P. LINDSAY,
				ELIZABETH COLLINGS,
				L. M. HART,
				ANNIE LAKER, 
