MY DEAR YOUNG SISTERS:
     Through the blessing of our Heavenly
Father our lives have been spared, and we are
permitted to celebrate another anniversary of


the organization of our Association.  It is a
good time to review the past, to sit down face
to face with our conscience and scrutinize our
inner self and ask ourselves if we have done
all that we could to make our Association a
success.  Is it our fault that our meetings are
not very well attended, and that our Associa-
tion is not in as good a condition as it should
be?  What benefit have our meetings been to
us?  How much have we improved?  What
have we learned during the past year?  What
have we done for the advancement of our Asso-
ciation?  Have we attended our meetings faith-
fully, and used our talents and energy to pro-
mote its interests?  Are we better daughters,
sisters, wives or mothers since we became mem-
bers of the Improvement Association?  If we
are not better in every respect than those who
do not attend our meetings, our Association is
a failure as far as we are concerned.  But it is
not a failure to those who take advantage of
the opportunities it affords for doing good to
others as well as themselves, for it is a fact,
that in teaching others we are taught, and in
blessing we are blessed.  Who can engage in a 
greater work than teaching the principles of
eternal life by precept and example? “Blessed
are those who keep the commandments of God
and teach others to do the same.” We did not
come upon this earth simply to eat, drink and
fritter away our time, seeking enjoyment in the
vain things of the world, but we had an object
in view, a mission to perform, and the little
time allotted to us in mortality is all the time
we have to obtain that object, to fill our mission
and prepare for the great eternity before us.
	Life at best is short and uncertain, surely
we should make the best of the little time we
stay, and make a good record, one that we will
not be ashamed to meet.  Our character is all
there is of us, and we have it in our own hands
to say what it shall be; it is all we can take
with us.  The record of a well spent life gives
more satisfaction than anything else on earth,
and will receive the greatest gift from our
Father, even eternal life.
	I earnestly desire that we awaken from our
indifference, and learn to appreciate the day in
which we live and the privileges that surround
us, and trust that through our energy and
faithfulness our Association will be much im-
proved when another anniversary dawns upon
us.
