REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS.

	Doubtless the best and highest motive which
can impel either child or adult to obedience is a
sense of duty and love to the person whose wishes
are to be respected. But experience teaches us
that, owing to the frailty of human nature, these
noblest feelings are often not sufficiently developed,
and lack the necessary power to effect the desired
end; in which case we have the divine authority
for adopting a system of rewards and punishments
for the enforcement of beneficent laws.
	It has seemed to me that the chief evil to be
guarded against in giving rewards is the tenden-
cy to degenerate into bribery. A child is told to
do a thing which in itself is simple enough, such
as, Go to bed, or come and be washed, and he
objects. "Do, and I'll give you so-and-so" says
the weak-minded mother or nurse, and if the
juvenile complies, prides herself, possibly, upon
her tact; whereas she has not only in all proba-
bility involved herself in the providing of a simi-
lar bribe upon all future occasions, but worse still,
has committed the grave error of offering to the
child a premium for disobedience; for had the child
promptly and unmurmuringly done as he was told,
he would have had no reward. I once knew two
little boys who were suffering from the same ill-
ness. The one took all necessary medicine and
nourishment without objection, and received no
prize; his brother made a point of refusing un-
less offered some substantial inducement to obedi-
ence, and consequently grew rich upon the bribes
he thus obtained. Was not this unjust and de-
moralizing?
	Some people get their children in the habit of
never going to bed without a sweetmeat or bis-
cuit as an incentive to willingness; and at any
time the accustomed goodie is not forthcoming,
the wailing that follows is both loud and long.
One mother I knew had also brought up her little
son to always expect pennies for the smallest ser-
vice he performed on her behalf and as a result
I have often heard the most unseemly bargaining
when he has been asked to do anything, as to how
much she would pay him for it! Thus one can
not help seeing the fallacy of giving rewards as a
regular thing,to be expected, and taken as a right,
rather than as an occasional encouragement and a
proof that an effort to be good is not unnoticed.
	Of course any special arrangement for enabling
a child by industry to earn a little
pocket money comes under a different head;
as does also a particular prize for some unusual
effort—the mastery of an extraordinary task, or
the conquering of an objectionable habit. But
now to speak of punishments. Our Poet Laureate
says:

	"He that only rules by terror
	Doeth grievous wrong."

	And the parent whose sole notion of discipline
is to hold the rod, figuratively speaking, perpetual-
ly over his children's heads, is certainly unfit for
his responsbilities. I do not now intend to dwell
upon the question of whether corporeal punish-
ment, as a rule, is or is not, advisable; but it is un-
deniable that the form of punishment must vary
with the different dispositions of the children on
whom it is to be inflicted, and the character of
the offense which called it forth. Therefore I am
inclined to think that for boys of coarse, heavy,
material nature, and for the commission of such

[Column 2]

wrong-doing as wanton cruelty to animals or
smaller children, physical suffering is the mos
suitable penalty. Others may be deterred from
evil by the prospect of being deprived of some
much-prized pleasure, or expected dainty; while
for those of fine and sensitive mind and who
have been well brought up, the withdrawal for a
lime of the parent's approval will be all sufficient.
But no mother should upon any account hold
forth a threat which she is not firmly resolved, if
necessary, to carry out to the uttermost.
	Concerning this subject, however, the thought
that presses one most strongly is that the correc-
tion should be administered from a right motive
and be absolutely just. The only ground on
which punishment should be imposed upon any
child is the hope that the penalty may prove a de-
terent. To punish from a feeling of personal an-
noyance is simple revenge, and fatal to justice;
besides which it shows a very bad example.
Charlie inadvertently knocks the table at which
we are writing, and spills the ink; in sudden
anger we box his ears. Presently Charlie's little
brother as unintentionally upsets the blocks with
which he is building, and is sent away crying with
a hearty slap. We condemn Charlie's behavior
as unkind; but from whom did he copy it? Again,
when administering correction in the heat of irri-
tation, how are we to guard against being influ-
enced by mood?—a precaution which is essential.
An inoffensive action can not become punishable
because the mother has had a bad night with baby,
and feels cross, any more than a wrong deed can
be made excusable because she happens to be in
an unusual good temper. Yet how many children
are made to suffer, and often wrongfully, in con-
sequence of temporary peevishness in the pa-
rent, or merely from a spirit of retaliation!
	Furthermore, in order to judge fairly of the mer-
its of a case, one must take time to weigh
thoroughly the probable motives of the child's
conduct, to consider whether it arose from ignor-
ance or wilfulness, from mere thoughtlesness or
from a wish to annoy; for the feeling underlying
the action, and not the amount of damage or
trouble resulting should be the gauge of the pen-
alty. Throwing stones, if forbidden, is equally
wrong, whether or not a broken window is the
consequence; and the latter disaster, though
causing vexation and expense, does not actually
aggravate the fault. A pure accident should
never be visited with severer reproof than an ad-
monition to greater carefulness in future. A pen-
alty for any offense should, moreover, never be
inflicted if there is a chance that vrebal remon-
strance may be sufficient; and in no case without
first hearing impartially the culprit's own
statement as to the reason for his conduct; it may
easily be seen whether he is offering empty ex-
cuses, or any real paliation of his fault.
     But in order that this plan may work well, and
unerring justice be done, the child must from his
earliest years be trained to absolute candor and
truthfulness.
