VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER.

[Concluded.]

	After conversing with the ladies of the
house very pleasantly for some time, they
offered to show me the suite of rooms oc-
cupied by their illustrious cousin, and took me

[Column 2]

up stairs, and into the poet's study, or library,
where he spends most of his time when at Oak
Knoll, and where many of his later poems
have been written. The rich carpet and rugs, 
the hangings and furnishings were elegant, and
in perfect keeping with the taste of the Quaker
author. The desk was a large and handsome
one, it was unlocked, and one of the cousins
opened it for me to look in. It displayed the
usual litter of literary people. Around the
room, perfectly arranged, were book-cases and
shelves of books in library style; hundreds of
volumes, selected, no doubt, with the greatest
care. In short, the room was attractively fin-
ished and furnished, and with the living poet
at his desk, must indeed have been a picture
beautiful to gaze upon. I was then shown the
sleeping apartment, a large square chamber, 
over the parlor, I think—the large and com
fortable looking bed in the centre of this room,
with the head to the north. The windows
looked out upon the grounds, beautifully laid
out, and ornamented with the choicest shrub-
bery. Everything to conduce to convenience,
luxury and comfort; one could easily imagine
it a fitting place for rest from toil and brain
work, and well adapted for the slumber of the
great American poet.
	As my time was limited, and I must catch
the train back to Boston that evening, the
ladies ordered their own hore and sleigh to
take me back to the depot, and I bade them an
affectionate goodbye, kissing each of those
sweet and lovely women. They had given me
the necessary information to look up Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, which, by the bye, I intend tell-
ing of at another time, and also how to reach
Amesbury the following day.
	The next morning I left the Parker House
at Boston on an early train for Amesbury, and
arrived about ten o'clock. Amesbury is a
pretty old town, very unpretending in appear-
ance as far as I could judge in passing through
it, but it has the fascination of being the poet's
home and birthplace, and many, probably the
greater part, of his poems, were written there. 
I took a carriage (on runners) from the station 
to Mr Whittier's home, some little distance
away, and as soon as the driver knew where I 
was going he seemed very talkative, but I was
too busy with my own imaginings to pay much
attention to his conversation, and we were soon
at the gate. I was not long in gaining admit-
tance, for the day was bitter cold. It is a very
plain looking two story house, painted white,
the snow banked up around it, as one sees
in that country usually in midwinter. The
maid who answered the door invited me to
come in, in the most genial manner, and took
my card, coming back directly with a kindly
smile of welcome on her face, saying, "Come
into the parlor, lady." I followed, and was
met halfway by the poet himself; who, after
shaking hands with me, observing the fire had
not been kindled there, invited me into his
study, where a bright coal fire was burning in
an open stove. He welcomed me with the
hospitality of an old courtier of the days of
chivalry; his manner, his benevolent face, his
smooth, snow-white hair, and his long black
broadcloth coat all helped to give him a most
venerable appearance, and I was charmed with
his genuine and courtly bearing. He talked
freely to me of our people, and made various
inquiries about the Edmunds law and its en-
forcement. He wanted to know why Senator
Edmunds was so persistent in his efforts and
measures to uproot Mormonism. I answered
his questions on our subject to the best of my
ability, and as answers gave rise to other ques-
tions, the time flew as it were on wings. Our
conversation was almost entirely of Utah, its
past, present and future, and much of it re-
lated more especially to women. It was one of
the most interesting interviews that I ever have
had, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. When he

[Column 3]

learned I was going to Boston by the afternoon
train, he insisted on my remaining there and
dining with him instead of going to the hotel.
The invitation was given in such a way that it
would have been positively rude to refuse, and
I fully appreciated the courtesy and the kind-
ness; it was much more than I had expected, 
and I felt it was for me a rare opportunity.
Mr. W. evidently enjoyed the conversation, in-
deed he manifested it plainly in words and
manner, and as he had never before seen a
"Mormon" woman, it was something quite
novel to him. He sent for Mrs. Cate, who has
charge of the house, and, after introducing me,
asked her to hurry the dinner, so we might
have plenty of time, and I could catch the
three o'clock train.
	At the table Judge Cate and his wife occu-
pied seats opposite each other, and I was seated
opposite the poet, an honor I shall ever remem-
ber with pleasure. The conversation at the
dinner table was general, and very intertaining, 
but the only thing that caused any remark
was the huckleberry pie; it was the first I had
tasted since my girlhood days, and brought
back to me many pleasant recollections of
green pastures and beautiful hills, and gay
parties of boys and girls laughing merrily and
tripping gaily from hill to vale.
	After dinner we had some further conversa-
tion, and he talked to me of his literary pur-
suits, his love of outdoor pleasures and so forth,
and of poets and poetry, both of New England
and the West. He gave me a photograph of
his study in which we had been sitting, and
where, as he informed me, he had written
many of his poems. He also gave me a mem-
orial containing the names of distinguished
authors, who had asked for international copy-
right, and hunted through his closet for a
picture of Oak Knoll, but not finding a copy,
promised to send me one at some future time. 
However,  I had lingered until nearly train
time, and at last bade the renowned poet and
gentleman a reluctant goodbye.
	After my return to Boston that evening, I
made explicit notes of my visit, much more
than I have given here, and in the evening
went to the Globe Theatre to see Lawrence
Barratt in "Hernani."
