BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.
	He realized to some extent the responsibility of
speaking to this people in the name of the Lord.
The preaching of the Gospel and exemplifying its
principles in our lives is the most important thing
we have to do. It is the highest ministry and
greatest honor that can be given to men in the
flesh. Christ, in speaking to Peter, the man
whom he had chosen to stand at the head of the
work on earth which He had established, made

[Column 2]

as the test of his love for Him, that he should feed
the sheep of God, and give unto them the bread
of life.
	The Gospel is the perfect law of liberty, for it
is the design of the Almighty that His children
shall be free; for this the American government
was founded, on a land of liberty, preparatory to
ushering in the Gospel, liberty's perfect law. A
perfect liberty not only casts down tyrants from
their thrones and bursts the fetters of the slave,
but also delivers the mind from captivity, opens
the spiritual dungeons, dispelling darkness and
despair and ushering forth the prisoner of doubt
and sin into the life and light of Gospel freedom.
	The American patriots struck not only for per-
sonal liberty, but liberty for mankind and posteri-
ty. Only small souls lived and labored for them-
selves, their immediate relatives, and for the pres-
ent moment. The great soul is as a mighty warrior,
battling for human good and human rights. Upon
his helmet crest is written, not "Me and mine,"
but "God and my fellowman." Christ was such
a warrior; not his own will but the will of his
Father was his foremost thought; the welfare of
the human family. This is why the angels sang
above His cradle, "Glory to God in the highest,
and on earth peace, good will toward men."
	In Him was made good the promise of the
Lord to Abraham: "In thee and thy seed shall
all the nations of the earth be blest." In His
veins flowed that precious blood, the blood of
Israel, with which God has "sprinkled many na-
tions" for their salvation. Would it be too much
to suppose that in the veins of every good and
great man, inspired and raised up as a benefactor
to his race, there was to be found some of
this blood of Israel with which all nations
were to "be blessed?" Let that be as it may, it is
certain that all such men are the Lord's instru-
ments, and that all men of every nation are and
have ever been carrying out His purposes and
fulfilling His great designs, whether they were
aware of it or not. We are told we must acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things.
	We hear much boasting nowadays concerning
blood and lineage, and some Latter-day Saints
seem prouder if they can trace their families back
to some Norman noble, or robber Baron,
some Duke, or Lord, or Governor, than they
appear to be of their own membership in the
Church of Christ,or of the blood of Israel in their
veins.  There is a great deal of talk of "blue
blood" and "first families," etc., even among the
people of God, the Latter-day	Saints.
Are we not all of one blood, the blood of
Abraham? Are we not all members of the one
"first family" of the earth; the family of our father
Adam?  And above and beyond all, are we not the
sons and daughters of God; we and all the rest
of mankind?
	"Blood will tell" its quality, give it whatever
name you may. True nobility, real greatness, is
not to sit upon a throne, to wear a high head and
a haughty mien, nor does it consist in purple and
gold and fine linen: no more than humility con-
sists in rags and dirt. It will prove itself in hum-
ble and faithful deeds. The highest in very deed
will be the humblest. The King of kings thought
it no disgrace to wash the feet of His humblest
disciple; for "He came not to be ministered unto,
but to minister." "He who would be great among
you," said He "let him be your minister." To
minister is to serve.
	"If ye are the children of Abraham," the Son
of God said to the Jews, "Ye will do the works of
Abraham." What works? Works of faith and
humility, being willing to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things, and live by every word
that proceedeth from His mouth. Had they done
this, they never would have put to death the Son
of God, they never would have taken the dead
letter and with it condemned the living oracle;
they would have sacrificed their preconceived no-


[Column 1]

tions and ideas and accepted the new revelation
of God's will, instead of pinning their faith to the
dead writings of Moses and the Prophets; only to
be properly interpreted by the Spirit which they
rejected. They were of the earth earthy; their
minds were materialized, and in their overweening
desire for a temporal deliverance and possession
of earthly things, they overlooked and ignored the
greater deliverance offered them, the spiritual
freedom of the Gospel, the riches of eternal life.
	The tests of faith are various, adapted to all
natures and conditions. The test applied to one
man in the days of the Savior was to "sell all he
had and give to the poor." He could not stand
the test, for he idolized his wealth, instead of wor-
shiping God. Abraham's test was far greater;
gold and silver would have been nothing to him;
he was touched in his tenderest spot, where all
will be tested. The strength of a chain is the
strength of its weakest link, the wall that
is weakest is the wall against which the
battering ram of temptation will be directed.
Abraham was required to offer up his only
son, and hard though the struggle must have
been, he made the sacrifice in his heart, though it
was not required of him to consummate the act.
He stood the test and became the father of the
faithful. He was a brave man, not one who did
not feel—for many men are called brave because
they have no sense of danger—but a man who
felt and suffered, and yet, like Christ, groaning in
his agony of trial, went forward and performed
the will of God. Such men are the bravest of the
brave; they are men of giant souls.
	The Latter-day Saints, though they have come
through a Gentile lineage, have been taught they
are the children of Abraham. What is the test?
That they do the works of Abraham; live by every
word of God, keep his commandments and con-
fess His hand in all things; willing to lay their all
upon the altar and sacrifice earth for heaven, the
temporal for the spiritual, time for eternity.
	It is hard to discourage a people who will do
this; who see in all things the hand of the Lord
over them for their good and his own glory. Who
can say with Job, "I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth and that He will stand at the latter-day upon
the earth; and though, after my skin, worms de-
stroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God."
	The Saints have passed through worse scenes
than the present; they have been robbed and
driven and oppressed, and many have suffered
even death for the Gospel's sake; and their chil-
dren, if they are the true issue of such noble
fathers and mothers, will prove their integrity in
like manner.  Only the chaff will be blown away,
the wheat will remain; the children of the
world will go back into the world, but the
children of Abraham will endure, like him, faith-
ful unto the end.
	It matters not whether we be rich or poor, bond
or free; in sorrow or in joy; if we know that God
lives, and we are engaged in His cause, and are
true to our professions, all that happens will be for
our best good.
	When the Saints were stripped of all their earth-
ly possessions, and driven out of Missouri, Heber
C. Kimball, an Apostle, wrote to the Church in
England: "Be of good cheer, brethren and sisters;
the Church was never in as good a condition as
now; they have lost all their earthly goods and are
now ready to go forth and preach the Gospel to a
dying world."
	A people who hold such views cannot be dis-
couraged; not even by death.
	It was Governor Lilburn W. Boggs, an Ameri-
can, who issued the edict "to exterminate the
'Mormons' or drive them from the State." God
 be thanked that the Saints are not of such a stripe
of Americans as this man, who could thus rob a
helpless and innocent people; expelling 15,000
Americans from their homes, in a land of liberty,
for the sake of their religion.  Such men may say

[Column 2]

they are Americans; but they are freedom's bas-
tards, they are not her sons.
	Let our motto be peace, and good will to all
men, and our lives be spent in the promotion of
the principles of the Gospel, the plan of salvation,
the perfect law of liberty.


