CONTRASTED.

"Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object coming there?
Lo! 'tis coming on! Without dismay
It dares, e'en now, to press its way
Into the heart of this, my realm,
And mine with fear to overwhelm. 
I will defend my kingdom; and
Why this intrusion, I'll demand.
Strange being, halt! here I am queen,
And such as you I've never seen;
Nay, tell me why you thus intrude,
To mar my peace and solitude?"

"Queen Nature," said the leader bold,
"By God, our Father, we were told
To come unto this far-off land
And give to you a helping hand.
Our God and yours now bids us take
This desert wild, and of it make
A place where Saints of His may dwell,
And in all virtues here excel.
Queen Nature, with your help God knows
That we, to blossom as the rose,
Can make this wilderness. And now
He bids that you before us bow."

"Alas! alas!" said Nature low, 
"Here in my heart I feel 'tis so.
My God above has sent His sons,
That here, before the Savior comes,
There may be gathered souls of worth,
By whom He'll purify the earth;"
And Nature, now bereft of tears,
Cried, "Welcome, welcome! Pioneers."

And all her subjects forward came,
With cheer and gift of help the same.
The Birds sang out a welcome sweet,
And Trees reached out their arms to greet;
The Great Salt Lake leaped forth in joy,
And said their peace shed ne'er alloy;
The Mountain tops then spoke and said,
Their help lie in their snowy head;
The Rills and Rivulets did dance,
And Rivers smiled so at the chance
Of spreading wide their waters pure,
Thus making life to plants secure.
And said the Beast of hill and plain,
"Our lives we'll give to yours sustain;"
And, yes, the Trout said, of his kind
How much was used they'd never mind.
Then last of all the Soil cried out,
"I'll do my best your seeds to sprout,
And with the help of Sun so bright
This spot will be an Eden quite."

Then that brave band of pioneers	
Did onward move 'mid many cheers;
Adown the mountain side they came—
Sang praises to His holy name.
Right down into the vale they went,
And there they pitched their humble tent
Beside the inland sea; they praised
Their God in fervent prayer, then raised
Their country's flag upon the sod,
Where white man's foot had never trod.
Amid the song and praise sent forth
The twilight closed that Twenty-forth.

Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object over there?
Lo! the throng's vast and swelling yet;
For what grand purpose have they met?

From all the country up and down, 
To every city, village, town,

[Column 2]

Great crowds of people thronging come,
With din of wheels and beat of drum.
The very air is loaded now
With voices glad, that tell of how
The hearts are gay; yes, gathered there
Are men so brave and women fair,
And children pure in innocence,
With youths and maids of excellence;
All in good will they are attired,
A sight by kings to be admired.

Contentment in each eye does beam,
And from each heart good wishes teem,
As round an aged few the crowd
Does congregate. How pleased, how proud.
How thankful to their God they are,
When thinking how from lands afar
They came this day just forty years,
And pitched their tents (these pioneers)
Upon this very spot, where now
Ten thousand people to them bow.

Ten thousand voices sing in praise
Where ten their thanks to God did raise;
Ten thousands meet in temples rare
Where those few prayed in open air;
In lovely homes their time is spent
Where those few dwelt within a tent.
Yes, ease and pleasure is the lot
Of thousands now who know not what
Those few endured; their only joy—
The only hope that did them buoy—
Was in the thought that they God's will
Had done—His word they did fulfil.

Now Nature stands aloof and smiles;
She looks around for miles and miles,
And sees the changes which were made,
Since God her country did invade.
She smiles through fields of waving grain,
Where once was but a barren plain;
She smiles through beds of flowers rare,
And fruits with which none can compare;
She smiles, and with a rain of tears,
The efforts of those forty years
Would bless. And God's caress is felt
Through nature's welcome smiles, and melt
His goodness would a heart of stone—
His mercy thus is daily shown.

Yes, truly now that desert drear
Does blossom as the rose; and here
The Saints of God do ever flow;
That in His grace they all may grow.

And on this day of Jubilee,
May words and thoughts and actions be
As pure and holy as were those
Of them to whom each one now shows
Such deep respect, and may there be
'Tween one and all such unity.
Amid such thanks and praise sent forth
May midnight close this Twenty-fourth.
