A JOINT CONFERENCE.

	A joint conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies Association of the First Ward
of Weber Stake was held in the school house,


Nov. 19, 1887. President Critchlow presided.
After singing, prayer was offered by Bishop
Critchlow. Singing again and then a report
of the association was read from its organiza-
tion on Dec. 11, 1878.
	President M. Critchlow made a few remarks
in which she stated the object of the meeting,
which was to bring about a reunion of confi-
dence and love with the sisters.
	President Nancy Hill made a few encourag-
ing remarks and was followed by Bishop Critch-
low and Counselor James Burch who were
pleased to be present and hoped the meeting
would result in some good. Spoke of the Re-
lief Society as being a great aid to the ward on
account of the benefit which was felt from
their assistance, and also exhorted mothers to
live near unto the Lord, as a great responsibili-
ty rested upon them in raising their families in
the right way.
	President Sarah Herrick of the Central
Board of the Young Ladies could see an in- 
creased interest manifested in this ward as she
had visited many of the Societies.
	Sisters Gibbs and E. Pingree were thankful
for the good counsel they had received and de-
sired to put the same into practice.
	Counselor R. E. Monch had been highly
edified by the remarks of her sisters. She
spoke of many small acts of kindness we could
perform in administering to the sick and
afflicted and to each other that would bring
confidence and love.
	Singing "The Spirit of God," and meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m., prayer by Elder Weav-
er.
	After this meeting the President extended an
invitation to all present to join in the feast
which had been prepared for the occasion in
the new school house to which all did ample
justice.
	Afternoon Session: The afternoon meeting
was conducted by President Nancy Hill of the
Y. L M. I. A., commencing at 2 p.m. by sing-
ing on page 198. Prayer by Brother James
Burch and singing again on 166.
	A report was read of the association from its
organization, after which President Hill ten-
dered her resignation which was accepted. The
vacancies were filled and some excellent re-
marks were made by Counselors Flinders and
Ensign.
	Counselor R. E. Monch counseled the young
ladies to attend their meetings and willingly
perform every duty.
	President Herrick arose and spoke in
tongues and R. E. Monch interpreted, blessing
the sisters, etc.
	This conference will be long remembered as
being a day when the spirit of God was strong
ly manifested and shall ever be regarded as a
happy day by these associations.
The meeting adjourned for one year by sing-
ing on page 260.  Benediction by Bro. Fur-
nise.
