MILTON.

	Milton, the illustrious blind poet of England,
the, as many believe, divinely inspired author
of "Paradise Lost," was born Dec. 6th, 1608,
in Bread St., London, and was educated first
at St. Paul's School, and afterwards at Christ's
College, Cambridge, where he took his degrees
in arts. The end in view, of his education,
was the bar or church; but he had no inclina-
tion for either calling; and after taking his de-
grees, he returned to Horton, Buckinghamshire,
where his father, who had retired from business
with a good fortune, was then living. It was
here the poet wrote, "Comus," "L'Allegro," "II

[Column 2]

Penseroso" and "Lycidas," poems containing
merit sufficient to have alone immortalized his
name. After his mother's death, in 1637, he
travelled in Italy and France, settling in Lon-
don, on his return, and undertaking the educa-
tion of his two nephews; and if we judge by
his "Tractate on Education," we can readily
suppose he was well calculated for his profes-
sion. It was not merely a disinclination for
the church Milton felt, but a decided antipathy,
I judge; for on the outbreak of the differences
between the King and Parliament, Milton
espoused the cause of the popular side, and
published some pamphlets against the Bishops,
showing great animosity against the hierarchy,
and he bravely avowed on one occasion, "I
have determined to lay up as the best treasure
and solace of good old age, if God vouchsafe
it to me, the honest liberty of free speech." In
1643 Milton married Mary, daughter of Rich-
ard Powell,Esq., of Forest Hill, in Oxfordshire.
For reasons not very clear, except that they
were not congenial to each other, his wife left
his house a few weeks after they were married,
presumably to visit friends, but delayed long,
and finally refused to return home. The hus-
band was very indignant, and wrote some
tracts on "The Doctrine and Discipline of Di-
vorce," which were a great offense to honest
minds. After various negotiations, of which
there is neither room nor need to go into par-
ticulars, his wife returned to him, and they
lived together till her death, nine years after.
About this time intense application to his
studies, combined with naturally weak eyes,
caused total blindness. He continued an ardent
champion for the parliamentary party even
after the execution of Charles I, and wrote
with great asperity against the King's book of
prayers and meditations.
	Milton, now blind, with three little children
on his hands, was sadly in need of a helpmate,
and soon after his wife's death, in 1652, he
married Catharine, the daughter of Captain
Woodcock,of Hackney. She died in childbirth
within twelve months, and that he loved
her, we can see from the sonnet with which
he honored her memory. He speaks
of her as his "late deceased saint," ap-
pearing to him in a dream, her semblance being
such:

	"——as yet once more I trust to have
		Full sight of her in heaven, without restraint."
	And that she
	"——came vested all in white, pure as her mind:
		Her face was veiled; yet to my fancied sight,
	Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shined
		So clear, as in no face with more delight;
	But, oh ! as to embrace me she inclined
		I woke—she fled—and day brought back my night."

	Can Petrarch's sonnets show more tender or
delicate affection?		
	Milton used every effort to prevent the
Restoration, but after the death of Cromwell
and the Restoration of Charles II, he had
every reason to fear retributive vengeance, so
he kept concealed for some time; but finally,
through the favor of Sir William Devenant,
his brother poet, he obtained a pardon. It was
soon after this he lost his second wife. He
married a third time, a Miss Elizabeth
Minshull, of good family in Cheshire. She
proved to be a bad stepmother, and caused
great unhappiness in the family. In the time
of the plague Milton removed with his family
to Buckinghamshire and devoted himself with


all the ardor of his genius to the completion of
his earliest project, an heroic poem. This was
always in his mind, though not fully under-
taken till he was driven from the field of poli-
tics. "Paradise Lost" was first printed in 1667,
and this immortal work was sold to a bookseller
for the paltry sum of five pounds. It is said,
he was indebted for the idea of it to an Italian
drama on the Fall of Man, and again, many
find the ideas identical with those of Caedmon,
the early Saxon's "paraphrase of the Bible."
To whatever or whomever he was indebted, we
can only be thankful that Milton was, and that
he did write "Paradise Lost." "Paradise Re-
gained" and "Samson Agonistes," a tragedy,
were published three years later. These, with
the poems first mentioned in this sketch, and a
series of sonnets, with a few Juvenilia, in Latin,
English and Italian, are all of his poetical
works. Though he was early attached to the
muses (it is said he was a poet at ten years of
age), he wrote but little till his thirtieth year;
during the next thirty years of his life he pub-
lished no composition in verse beyond the
length of a sonnet or a psalm. His youth and
old age he devoted to himself and fame, his
middle life to his country. Among the prose
works of Milton are his "History of England,"
which comes down only to the Conquest, and
"Areopagitica," in which he pleaded the cause
of a free press with great force aud eloquence.
It is not possible in a short sketch like this to
speak at greater length of his works. Of his
personal habits he tells us himself: "Those
morning haunts are where they should be—at
home; not sleeping or concocting the surfeits of
an irregular feast, but up and stirring in winter,
often ere the sound of any bell awaken men to
labor or devotion; in summer as oft with the
bird that first rouses, or not much tardier, to
read good authors, or cause them to be read"
(evidently his daughters rose early, too), "till
the attention be weary, or the memory have
its full fraught. Then with useful aud gener-
ous labors, preserving the body's health aud
hardiness, to render lightsome, clear, and not
lumpish obedience to the mind."
	When at Cambridge, he was so handsome a
man as to be called "The Lady of Christ's
College," and he retained his good looks to the
last. By his first wife he had three daughters,
two of whom used to read to him in eight
languages, though they understood only their
own, it being a usual saying with him, that
"one tongue was enough for a woman." We
can but acknowledge him as a great poet, but
it must have been, methinks, weary work for
those two girls to plod through word after
word without meaning to them, for their blind
father's benefit, and surely such devotion merits
a crown hereafter. I remember, as a child,
admiring greatly a picture of the blind poet,
seated at an open door, his head thrown back,
with a most ecstatic expression on his face, and
seated at his feet, on the steps, his daughters,
writing down the-fervent words which seemed
to come forth from his entranced soul; but now
I look back I think not so much of the poet or
his poems, but of those poor tired girls, and
wonder if they had a dim perception of the
immortality of the words they wrote, that
gave them courage for their daily tasks.
	Milton died, at his home in Bunhill Fields,
in 1674, aged 68 years, and was buried next to
his father, in the Chancel of St. Giles, at
Cripplegate where a monument has been
erected to his memory; Westminister also con-
tains a bust and monument commemorating the
life and works of one of England's most illus-
trious poets.		MYSOTIS.


