VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1872.	NO. 10.


﻿		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TURKISH LADIES are discarding thick
veils. The world moves!
	BRAVE WOMEN of the period—Those who
dare to dress comfortably.
	 NOVEMBER 5TH is the day on which the
Presidential election will be held.
	FALLEN GREATNESS—The “Cardiff Giant"
bought to be set up by an Indiana farmer as
a gatepost.
	DACOTAH HAS had an earthquake.  Are
they traveling east from California without
giving Utah a call? They can be spared
here.
	MRS. FAIR was acquitted on her second
trial in San Francisco, and the result called
forth an abundance of wrathy newspaper
criticisms.
	NO RACE nor clime can claim lengthened
years as a special heritage. A woman of color
died in Philadelphia a few days ago aged
a hundred and five years.
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN has again gone
to Europe, but will return this month. He
has still inscribed on his banner “N. P. A.”
—Next President of America — Next?
When?
	PRUSSIA MAINTAINS Protestantism by re-
fusing to permit Mormon Elders to preach
in its dominions, and by expelling Jesuits.
Prussian Protestantism must be weak-kneed
and delicate to be so afraid of contact.
	CINCINNATI HAD an inaugural attempt at
a war of races, on the night of the 7th inst.,
when an Irish procession and a colored mob
came into collision. A general war of races
would be more terrible than a war of sec-
tions, of countries, or even of kindreds.
	THE MICHIGAN University has received
nineteen young ladies in the “freshman”
class, and Michigan University is honored
in so doing. The silly prejudices against
according woman the educational rights en-
joyed by men are disappearing
	PENNSYLVANIA, OHIO and Nebraska held
elections on the 8th inst., and gave majori-
ties for the Republican candidates. Indiana,
on the same day, gave a majority for the
Democratic candidate. The result is not
favorable to Mr. Greeley’s election in No-
vember
	WORD COMES from the Pacific Coast that
a woman suffrage bill has been introduced
into the Oregon legislature. Oregon may be
just enough to have the bill passed and be-
come law,and teach Massachsetts that justice,
truth and light are to come from the
west to the east, reversing the old order of
things.
	A BEQUEST of $350,000 has been made by
Miss Sophia Smith, of Massachusetts, to en-
dow a new college for women at Northamp-
ton in that State, where young women may
have means and models of instruction equal
to those now enjoyed by young men. Telling
the simple fact is ample eulogy on Miss
Smith, all honor to her!
	SCOTT'S LINES commencing “Love rules
the camp, the court the grove” might be
altered in this mercenary age to “Mammon”
exercising the ruling power. It is now said
Pere Hyacinth made $75,000 by his mar-
riage. Of course money was no induce-
ment, but it was convenient to find it a
portion of the matrimonial bargain.
	PRINCE NAPOLEON endeavored to take
up his residence in Paris last week, his
wife, the Princess Clothilde, accompanying
him. But the government of Thiers per-
emptorily ordered them to leave,
and the princely pair had to travel.
The name of Napoleon is not as popular in
France as it was before the surrender at
Sedan.
	WASHINGTON D. C., had the strange
sight a few days ago of six persons being ar-
raigned in one of its courts, charged with
murder; Washington is moral, and temper-
ate, and virtuous, and free from crime; and
that is the reason probably why it becomes
so potently stirred up against Utah occasion-
ally. Were these six alleged murderers an
accident?
	MORE TROUBLE in Spain. This time it is
a revolt of the troops at the town of Ferrol,
a strongly fortified sea-port with some 17,-
000 inhabitants, and some of the citizens
have joined the insurrectionists. King
Amadeus is verifying the proverb:	“Un-
easy lies the head that wears a crown;” and
the prospects of a peaceful reign over the
revolution-loving Spaniards are not very
bright for him.
	WHEN THE FALL and Winter fashions be-
come fairly matured they promise to pre-
sent as much hideousness as any late ones
have manifested; and people will admire
themselves imitating a style of hair-dressing
that has been fashionable in central Africa
for generations; while clothing will be
modeled for every purpose but the comfort
and convenience of the wearer.
	A PROPOSITION to license and “ticket”
the inmates of houses of ill-repute in New
York is being discussed, and the “Star” of
that city sensibly calls for the same rules be-
ing applied to the male visitors at the
places. It adds: “This theory that the men
have ‘rights’ which women are not to share
in that direction, is not only unchristian but
indecent.” A sentiment with which every
right-minded person will agree.
	A HOUSE fell in Louisville, Kentucky,
the other day, killing a family inside, and
warrants were promptly issued against the
architect, the builder, and the foreman en-
gaged in the erection of it, charging them
with the murder of the persons killed. If
men were more generally held responsible
for the fatal results of their carelessness or
wilful neglect to take necessary precautions
where human life is involved, there would
be fewer accidents by railroads, on steam-
ships, by explosions, and other ways by
which life is recklessly slaughtered. It is
time this much-needed reformation was be-
gun, and the action of the Louisville City
courts is a healthy sign.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the birth day of
Father Matthews, the once famous Irish
temperance preacher, was widely celebrated
by the temperance men of the United States,
on Thursday last, the 10th inst. One good
thing Father Matthews did for Ireland. Be-
fore he traveled through the country stir-
ring up her children to enthusiasm by his
fervid eloquence, and administering the
pledge of total abstinence to thousands, It
was not considered a disgrace to be intoxi-
cated, only so far as it showed a limited ca-
pacity to drink fiery whisky. But since his
day, wide-spread as intemperance still is, it
is viewed as disgraceful and degrading to
be seen drunk. When some reformer can
accomplish as much for these United States,
he will be worthy of a statue of California
gold, on a pedestal of Nevada and Utah
silver, and gemmed with Alaska and Arizo-
na diamonds.
	“FATHERLESS, MOTHERLESS, no friends,
no home!” were words contained in a letter
which helped to show the cause of a suicide,
lately committed in London by an unfortu-
nate girl about twenty years of age, who
preferred death by her own agency, rather
than to live and follow the paths of vice.
She asked forgiveness of all who might
hear of her, for the crime she was about to
commit. It is easier to forgive such as her,
than the enlightened Christian age whose
follies drive them to deeds of desperation.
While President Brigham Young sets an ex-
ample before the people of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and the whole world, by feed-
ing, clothing, sheltering and schooling a
great many young people who would other-
wise be homeless and friendless; giving
them places with his own children, becom-
ing indeed a father to the fatherless; the
world derides him and his ways, of which
it understands nothing, and would gladly
do with its benefactor to-day, as the Jews
with its Redeemer less than nineteen centu-
ries ago. Yet innocence, driven to desper-
ation, rushes headlong into eternity, and
the Christian age hardly gives a glance to
the miserable unfortunate, but hurries on
preparing others for the same horrid future.
	THE "MISSOURI REPUBLICAN,” under
the heading “The Oppressed women of
Utah,” has the following sensible remarks,
which are presented for general considera-
tion to pusedo philanthropists, silly senti-
mentalists, and anti-Mormon lecturers:
“We have heard a good deal about the op-
pressed and degraded women of Utah, and
the unclean and tyrannical vassalage which
the Mormon social system imposes upon the
female sex. This string has been tuned
and played upon until it appears to have
snapped. It seems now that the women are
almost every body in Utah. They have
more power and more rights than they have
anywhere else on this green earth, and the
boasted lord of creation is entirely a second-
ary personage in the land of saints. This
may look like a strange condition for Utah,
of all the world, but it is true. That Terri-
tory and its social system seems to have
been the lock and key by which women
have at last entered into the wider, nobler
sphere for which they have prayed and
worked. An incident which calls up the
privileges which the women of Utah enjoy,
lately occurred in Salt Lake City. Miss
Phoebe Couzens, of St. Louis, and Miss
Georgie Snow, daughter of the Attorney-
General of the Territory, were admitted to
the bar in the District Court, and the cere-
monies were imposing. The brace of pretty
girls besieged the august Court of Chief
Justice McKean, and the Court capitulated.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MORTALITY.

Ye dainty mosses, lichens gray,
	Pressed each to each in tender fold,
And peacefully thus, day by day,
	Returning to your mould.

Brown leaves, that with aerial grace
	Slip from your branch like birds a-wing,
Each leaving in the appointed place
	Its buds of future spring.

If we, God’s conscious creatures knew
	But half your faith in our decay,		
We should not tremble as we do
	When summoned clay by clay.

But with an equal patience sweet
	We should put off this mortal gear,
In whatsoe’er new form is meet
	Content to re-appear;—

Knowing each germ of life He gives
	Must have in Him its source and rise,
Being that of His being lives,
	May change but never dies.

Ye dead leaves, dropping soft and low,
	Ye mosses green and lichens fair,
Go to your graves, as I will go,
	For God is also there.
						MRS. MULOCK CRAIK.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
	INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO,HANCOCK CO., ILLS.

			BY ELIZA. R. SNOW.

	[Reprinted from No. 2 of the EXPONENT.]

			(CONCLUDED.)
	When organized, the Society consisted of
nineteen members, exclusive of its officers.
This number augmented from time to time,
until at the close of the fiscal year it
amounted to 1,158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary to
adjourn to the Grove, the usual place in
the Summer for holding Sabbath meetings,
which was provided with a suitable stand
and a supply of seats for large assemblies.
	The Society soon became so popular that
even those of doubtful character in several
instances applied for admissiou, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules
were adopted than seemed requsite at first.
Each one wishing to join the Society was re-
quired to present a certificate of her good
moral character, signed by two or more re-
sponsible persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed
by singing and prayer, and systematic order
was observed throughout. In each meeting
reports were given by those whose duty it
was to visit from house to house and inquire
into the circumstances of the sick and desti-
tute—donations were received and those
subjects discussed which appertain to wo-
man’s duties, influence, responsibilities,
etc., etc.—whatever has a tendency to bene-
fit and elevate society at home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith, Bish-
op N. K. Whitney and brethren of the
Twelve met with the sisters, and through
the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing,
not only in duties concerning the poor, but
also in all the relations of life, as wives, mo-
thers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of
the Most High, our duties to one another
and our responsibilities as examples to the
world, etc.
	The first Winter after the Society was or-
ganized, was exceedingly cold and severe.
Many, in consequence of exposure and hard-
ship in their expulsion from the State of
Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the cli-
mate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sick-
ness to destitution, and had it not been for
[new column]
the timely aid of the F. R. Society would
have suffered very much, and probably some
would have perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when some
of the officials of Missouri were taking meas-
ures to drag President Joseph Smith from
Illinois by an illegal process, the F. R. Soci-
ety sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Gov-
ernor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith,
claiming his protection as chief magistrate.
The petiton was signed by every member of
the Society, and presented by its President,
Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs.
Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow. The
Governor’s residence was in Quincy, fifty
miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal, written after my return: “The
Governor received us with as much cordi-
ality and politeness as His Excellency was
master of, assuring us of his protection by
saying that the laws and Constitution of our
country should be his polar star in case of any
difficulty. He manifested much friendship,
and it remains for time and circumstances
to prove the sincerity of his professions.”
	We subsequently ascertained that at the
very time that the ladies of Nauvoo were
visiting him, presenting the petition and
listening to his protestations of friendship
and love for legal right and justice, his em-
issaries were engaged in secret plotting in
his behalf, against the rights and safety of
President Smith, and aiding the unprinci-
pled bloodhounds of Missouri. But what-
ever the result, the F. R. Society had made
a noble effort, and it was compensated by
knowing that the great, good man, Joseph
Smith, appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into four
wards, and after the Society became too nu-
merous to convene in one assembly, it was
decided to meet alternately in the different
wards from week to week so as to give equal
opportunities to all.
	Pres. Joseph Smith donated a city lot to
the Society for the purpose of making homes
for the homeless, and also to furnish work
to those who were able to work and were
out of employment, which he proposed
deeding to the Treasurer and her successors
in office, for the use of the Society. He
also donated the frame of a house, and made
arrangements for it to be moved on the
aforesaid lot, for a commencement of the es-
tablishment, But this benevolent and judi-
cious project, with many others which were
designed for the amelioration of the condi-
tion of suffering humanity, was blasted in
the bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a desola-
tion, and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man praise
Him, has overruled, as He ever does in all
things, for the good of them who put their
trust in Him. In having been driven from
a city, we have become a Territory—should
have been a State—and here, the Female
Relief Society, more amply developed than
in Nauvoo, has extended its branches to
every ward, and settlement from Bear Lake
in the North to Santa Clara in the South,
and yet, as seen in prospective, it has but
little more than emerged from its embryo
state in comparison to its great future.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the Fe-
male Relief Societies, accompanied by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard and the editor of the
EXPONENT, paid a visit recently to Payson,
Utah County, and held a meeting of the
F. R. Society of that city, attended by many
of the adjacent settlements, in the
[new column]
Payson New Tabernacle on September 26th,
at 2 o’clock, p.m.
	Bishop J. S. Tanner and other Elders, pres-
ent by invitation, occupied seats in the
stand.
	The meeting was called to order by Mrs.
B. Jane Simons, President of the Payson
Society, and was opened by singing and
prayer; after which President Miss E. R.
Snow addressed the assembly.
	She said the name, “Female Relief So-
ciety” was suggested and established by
vote when the first organization took place.
The question had been agitated for some
time, whether the name would not be
rendered more appropriate by the omission
of the word “Female,” and the calling of
these associations merely “Relief Societies.”
She thought that this modification would
improve the application; and others with
whom she had communicated on the subject
held the same opinion. But as the name
was established by vote, it must also be
changed by an expression from a majority
of those interested, if at all, because every
thing we do should be done legally. She
then called for an expression of the feelings
of those present and all voted for the modi-
fication of the name. The speaker contin-
ued, “The sisters of Payson hold a very
warm place in my heart; they have proved
themselves ready to make sacrifices of their
own feelings for the general good. Those
who are the most noble, cultivated and re-
fined, are ever the first to sacrifice their
feelings for the good of others. Woman fills
an important sphere; her duties are most
significant; and for this reason she should be
educated. It is admitted that woman forms
the character of society; that she gives char-
acter to her children, and that the most
minute parts of their education depend up-
on her. It is quite as necessary that we
study the superstructure of the human body,
as many other things upon which much
time is spent. We are calling on those sis-
ters who are sufficiently ambitious and per-
severing, to come forward and aid in organ-
izing and supporting classes for the purpose
of gaining knowledge pertaining to the laws
of life and health. We want a union of faith
and prayers upon this subject from the sister-
hoods throughout the Territory; and do not
expect to accomplish much without the co-
operation and assistance of the brethren,
but this we shall have. Our girls should be
educated in order that they may become
wise, good mothers, and plant the seeds pf
true, rich intelligence in the future genera-
tion. Many of the young men of our com-
munities would be less intemperate find un-
stable, had their mothers better understood
the laws which govern human nature.”
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Miss L. L. Greene,
Elders Isaiah Coombs, John Loveless, Robt.
Wimmer, Gustave Simons, Orrawell Sim-
ons, President Mrs. B. J. Simons—who
suggested that another meeting be held in
the evening which was voted for unani-
mously—Counsellor Mrs. Agnes Douglas
and Bishop J. S. Tanner, who also dismissed
the meeting by prayer.
	At 7 o’clock, a general invitation to all
who were desirous of attending having been
extended, a very respectable congregation
of gentlemen and ladies gathered and
listened to short but interesting and edify-
ing remarks, from Elders George Rust,
D. Lant and Miss E. R. Snow. A welcome to
Sister Snow was also read.
	In her remarks, Miss Snow said to the
sisters, “Our aims have been too low; we
must improve them. We have been in the
habit of thinking we could do so little.”
She recommended the organization of a


Young Ladies’ Society, and, if she might be
permitted, would recommend the brethren
to organize Young Gentlemen’s Societies
also.
	The kind hospitality with which Miss
Snow and her companions were received
and entertained during their visit to Pay-
son, by all, and particularly by Mrs Agnes
Douglas and family, deserves honorable
mention. They were called upon by a
number of the sisters, among whom
were Counsellor Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Mary
A. Hardy, Secretary of the Payson Relief
Society.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MOTHERS in general, remarks Miss S., do
not realize how early the education of their
children commences. Children are born
with intelligence undeveloped; and as it is
manifested at times in the expressions and
actions of the tiny infant, it understands
more, and has really more knowledge of
what we say to it, than people gener-
ally give it credit for. That child upon its
mother’s lap—a baby six or eight months
old—knows from her kisses and caresses
that she loves it; that when it jumps and
coos she is pleased with its brightness and
good nature; and if it ever cries and is dis-
tressed, it realized from the soothing, pity-
ing tone and the tender expression of its
mother’s face, that she sympathizes and suf-
fers with it. It knows, too, if she is truth-
ful and honest with it. Its education is al-
ready begun. Mothers, if you would have
your children love and speak the truth,
never let them hear you speak the least un-
truth. If you would have them virtuous,
charitable and generous, cultivate the same
qualities in yourselves. And if you want
them to be reflective and studious, prayer-
ful and diligent in doing good, let them
see you the same in your every day course;
and even before the little ones make their
appearance upon the grand stage of life, let
these principles be implanted in their or-
ganizations. We cannot plant thistle seeds
and expect fig trees to grow from them. If
you desire your offspring to be healthy
and live long, take care that you do not en-
gender in their physical natures the seeds
of disease and premature decay. First learn
wisdom yourselves, and then you will be
potent to impart the same to future genera-
tions. In giving instructions of any kind,
or corrections, light or heavy, it is a thing
worth remembering, that “All wise govern-
ment begins with self-government.”
	BATHING.—The first thing to be done
when a bath is to be given is to prepare the
room, making it of a comfortable tempera-
ture. The second is to prepare the bath,
using soft water, and making it of the right
temperature, as indicated by a thermome-
ter. Persons sometimes ask us to explain
what is meant by certain temperatures, so
that they can get along without a thermome-
ter. This is impossible. The terms, hot,
cold, warm, tepid, are so indefinite and con-
vey such different impressions to different
persons, as to be entirely unreliable in giv-
ing directions. If a person in fever is to be
packed, his conditions are much more readi-
ly controlled by wetting two sheets in
water at 90°, wringing them but slightly,
and packing him in them, or even puting
him into a fresh pack when the one becomes
heated, than by putting him into a cold
sheet, The idea that the hotter a person is
the colder should be his bath, is productive
of great mischief. The rule is exactly the
reverse of this; that is: a person in a high
fever should have his bath at a higher tem-
perature than if he had no fever; for what,
[new column]
in the latter case, would be a pleasant tem-
perature to him, would be shockingly cold
in the former.
	BLEEDING AT THE LUNGS.—Put cold
cloths on the head, a hot brick or hot bath
for the feet, and on the throat and chest ap-
play cloths wrung out of warm water. Keep
the patient quiet.
	IN all diseases we cannot too strongly urge
the necessity of good nursing. Absolute
cleanliness of person, clothing, room and air
must be had at all times. Quietness, hope-
fulness and cheerfulness are of more value
to the sick than gold, silver and diamonds.
—Ex.


﻿THE SEX.
				      —
	MRS. D. P. Bowers, Philadelphia’s favor-
ite comedienne, has bought a country seat
near Manchester, Mass.
	MRS. Partington does not believe in shak-
ing hands across the bloody sarcasm. Most of
the women agree with her.
	ADELINA Patti has been invited by Mme.
Thiers to give a beneft in Paris to the suf-
ferers by the war, and will do it.
	MRS. Tator, the first woman lawyer on
the Pacific Coast, has been refused admis.
sion to the bar of Santa Cruz, California.
	ROSA Bonheur is said to have expressed
recently a desire to visit the United States,
and, if possible, to do so within the next
twelve months.
	MISS Austine Sneed, “Mrs. Grundy,” of
the “World,” has been engaged to “do”
Washington next winter for a London week-
ly, writing at odd intervals whenever there’s
need.
	THE Princess Salm-Salm having backed
out of the gayeties of this life Into the aus-
terities of a convent, the Queen of Prussia
has sent her a thousand-dollar testament.
	TURKISH ladies are asserting their right
—to be seen. High-born Osman damsels
now dress in Parisian style, wearing veils
of the thinest possible gauze, which soften
without concealing the features.
	COUNTESS Beauchamp has decided talent
as a sculptress. At the Royal Academy her
ladyship is an exhibitor of the figure of her
youngest child. It is said to be excellent
both as a likeness and work of art.
	MADAME de Stael said: “If I were mis-
tress of twenty languages, I would think in
the deep German, converse in the gay
French, write in copious English, deliver
in noble Greek, and make love in the soft
Italian.
	IN Dover, New Hampshire, this Summer,
four young ladies, Adelaide, Jenny, Emma
and Alta Hanson, with the assistance of one
man, their brother, made and gathered sixty
tons of hay. One of them, Miss Emma, her-
self mowed the whole of it, with a two-horse
machine. This promising young farmer is
but seventeen years of age.
	MISS Emily Faithful, who will shortly ar-
rive here to discuss the woman question, is
a lady of wealth and high social position,
and an intimate friend of Queen Victoria.
She devotes her life and money to the ele-
vation of her sex in remunerative employ-
ments.
	IT is well for the girls to know the risk
they run in marrying brakemen. An en-
thusiastic member of the guild In St. Louis
the other night was awakened from a dream
of an Impending mishap by a cry of pain,
and found himself sitting up in bed holding
his wife by the ears, having almost twisted
her head off.


﻿ON THOUGHT BEING EDUCATION.

	A remark made by one of the Sisters,
while speaking in the 14th Ward at a late
meeting, struck me very forcibly as being
true. She said good thoughts showed good
education. This is something that we should
consider more than we do, for upon it de-
pends our happiness more than we are aware.
Thought is truly “the spring of human con-
duct;” and how careful we should be to not
allow an evil or impure thought to have
place in our breast.
	How often we find ourselves giving way
to thoughts that we would be ashamed to
have our most intimate friend know; and
then, to think, that the Lord can discern our
most secret thoughts, should be enough to
cause us to check anything that tends to
evil. Let us consider that we are being
educated by our every thought. When we
feel in the least unhappy or unpleasant, we
may know that our thoughts are not run-
ning in the right direction, and we should
banish them in a moment, and cultivate.
those that will bring peace and happiness,
all the day long. When we can control our
thoughts as we should, we will be near per-
fection. It should be our constant prayer to
the Lord to give us power to govern our
thoughts, for when we can do this we will
have gained a great victory, and will be
tolerably thoroughly educated.
							M. A. F.


﻿THE BENEFIT OF WOMAN TO MAN.
			    —
	Did it ever occur to any of our readers
what a refining and polishing influence the
society of woman gives to man? The asso-
ciation with intelligent and educated women
is ever observable in the man. The com-
mon coarseness of many; the bashful awk-
wardness of others; the general tendency of
man to satisfy his passions—are all toned
down and obliterated, when they are con-
tinually brought into the society of women. 
The gentle, kind and insinuating way a
good woman’s influence is thrown about the
rude and reckless man, is always observa-
ble. She seems to reach into his heart with
fingers that very soon weed out every un-
couth and unseemly plant. She does this,
apparently, without an effort; she gives to a
man grace, fluency in conversation, gentle-
ness of manner, complete ease in society and
a love of the arts, sciences and beauties of
nature; she throws about his experience an
atmosphere of love, confidence, hope, trust,
honor, fidelity and virtue! The rough ob-
structions to be met with upon the exterior
of his character are very soon cut away and
the scars healed up from sight. The pro-
cess of change from a vicious, lonly life, to
one of female association and refinement, is
often slow and tedious; but the metamorphic
change is sure to take place under the love, 
judgment and guidance of a true woman. If
there is anything in man that may be called
“metal,” the beneficial influence of woman’s
association will burnish it to such a bright-
ness that its kind and quality can soon be
determined.
	Some coarse and brutish men scoff at the
beneficial influence of woman, but most all
sooner or later are led to feel its power. The
man who can never feel this reclaiming,
purifying power, and has no faith in woman’s
ennobling, elevating influence, is possessed
of a heart poor indeed. We do not wish his
society—we know our business relations
with him cannot be pleasant and compan-
ionable. The low, vicious habits of life are
his, as he has no incentive to be otherwise,
or even wish to elevate his character.—
“Willamette Farmer.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1 Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month; $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt	Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	The Pope has appointed the reverend Mr.
Vaughan Bishop of Salford,England......The
rinderpest has appeared in the country
around Mons, Belgium.......The desperado
Saunders, alias “Red Bill,” was recently
shot at Osceola, Missouri, by the city Mar-
shal......Dr. J. Brinton Smith, Principal of
the St. Augustine colored school of Raleigh,
North Carolina, is dead......Iowa supports
thirteen camp meetings at once......Feldspar,
hitherto imported from Spain, has been dis-
covered in Connecticut......Georgia will not
tax cotton or woolen mills erected there for
two years......The Pope was considerably
indisposed at Rome the other day......San
Antonio, Texas, offeres $500,000 to expedite
the railway communication with Austin......
It is rumored in France that Gambetta will be
a candidate for the Vice-Presidency of the
Republic......E. R. Hoar has been nominated
for Congress in the Seventh District of Mas-
sachusetts......The total value of all known
diamonds, exclusive of Arizona and Alaska,
is $1,000,000,000......Governor Scott, of
South Carolinn, has commenced suit against
the New York “Tribune” for libel......San
Francisco had an earthquake on the 1st inst.
......Late reports from Japan say the party
of progress are losing ground......The death
penalty has been abolished in Peru, and
fifteen years imprisonment is to be the
maximum of all punishment in that Repub-
lic......The best portrait of Bismarck is said
to be engraved as a frontispiece to his life,
published two years ago by Harper & Bro’s.
......Sumner demands peace and reconcilia-
tion on all sides......Queen Victoria has pre-
sented Nellie Grant with her portrait set in
precious stones......In some of the towns in
New England, apples are so plentiful that
farmers are offering cider at $1.50 per barrel.
......A New Orleans lady, the champion
swimer at Mississippi City, swam 1,600 feet
without stopping, a few days since, and.
thinks she could have made 2,000 by a little
more exertion.......Bierstadt is in Inyo
County, California, taking, sketches in the
Sierras for future paintings......English is
the vernacular of seventy millions of people.
......During the year past, the tax collector
of San Francisco has paid into the treasury
over $2,800,000......Miss Grace Anna Lewis,
of Pennsylvania, has achieved a large suc-
cess in the department of ornithology, and
has given public lectures on birds.......The
United States has 65,000 miles of complete
railroads......A swimmer at the steamboat
wharf in Fall River, recently, dispersed a
whole prayer meeting to rescue him, by pre-
tending that he was drowning..........Blue
overcoats and gilt buttons, like our grand-
fathers wore, will be the style for the com-
ing winter....... A Paris gymnast, known as
Sampson Iron Jaw, whose specialty was pick-
ing up weights with his teeth and throwing
them over his head, raised a barrel with his
teeth and in attempting to dispose of it, fell
dead with a broken spine......The Iowa girls
turn out in torchlight processions and fill
the air with shrieks for their favorite candi-
dates......An Indiana woman, lately di-
vorced, writes a letter of advice to the girls
in which she says, “I would not marry
young, and when I was married would live
at least fifty miles from my husband’s rela-
tives”.....Apple trees are blooming for the
second time in the neighborhood of Gilroy.
......The railroad companies own one-fifth of
Kansas......A late heavy storm did much
damage to the shipping on the great lakes,
and many lives were lost......Athens, Geor-
gia, has a paper called the “Cat” with the
motto “I can scratch”......Mobile has sus-
pended her dog law for want of dogs......A
[new column]
Detroit ferry-boat draws custom with a brass
band......A Virginia letter-carrier speaks
eight languages besides the profane......A
considerate man in Illinois paid all his debts
before committing suicide......Trouble is
threatening between Chili and Bolivia, and
somebody may get killed.......A Michigan
lad kicked a can of nitro-glycerine. He did
not need a coffin, but will require an artifi-
cial leg......A London law-suit, a hundred
and forty-seven years old, has just termina-
ted......South Carolina holds an election to-
morrow.......“Inflatable rubber bustles” are
announced, and they are said to impart
great bouyancy to the movements. Some
ladies could do with less buoyancy......St.
Louis has invented moonlight funerals......
Omaha has grown to 20,000 inhabitants
from none in eighteen years.......Seventy
students can be admitted to the Russian
special courses, of medicine and surgery for
women. Three hundred have applied......A
ten foot alligator is boarding at the St.
Louis dog pound......More news and less
politics will characterize the newspapers in
another month......A western paper calls
Laura D. Fair “the pretty bully in bomba-
zine.”


NOTICE.
			    ——
	As the word “Female” is useless in "Female
Relief Society,” we wish to drop it, which can
legally be done with the concurrence of a
majority of ladies composing the various branch-
es of the Society throughout the Territory.
It must be done by vote. We therefore request
all of the Presidents to take an action on the
subject, at their first meeting, and report the
result to the Editor of WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							ELIZA R. SNOW.
    SALT LAKE CITY, Oct., 8th, 1872.


﻿OUR JOURNAL.
	With the present number of the Exponent
five months of its existence as a journal will
have passed, and it is time that we asked those
clubs that subscribed for six months to renew
their subscriptions. We would request them to
take this matter into consideration now, that
by the time the thirteenth number goes to
press we may know how many copies to print.
Although the circulation of the Exponent has
increased rapidly since it was started, the paper
is not yet paying expenses. To do so will re-
quire a still larger circulation, for the desire is
not to make of it an advertising sheet, which
would pay, but a journal of value to its readers
and one worthy to be preserved. We hope with
increasing patronage to make it more valua-
ble than it is, and a means of acomplishing
good that can be pointed to with pleasure by
everyone interested in its success.
	But to do this the brains of two or three per-
sons are not enough. There are numbers of
ladies throughout the Territory who could


write and yet do not, and could clothe in point-
ed, touching words,ideas that would be of great
value to their sisters everywhere who read the
Exponent. There is more original matter
published in this journal than some of its
readers imagine. The first page of every num-
ber is editorial though it does not so appear;
and many contributed articles are published
with nothing but an initial letter to indicate
who is the author.  Still, it is desirable that
more original matter should appear. We would
also request of ladies to overcome the diffidence
which many of them have to their names be-
ing published, and let them appear attached to
their articles. It will not only show that the
contributions are original, but it will also show
that you entertain honest opinions which you
care not how openly you express.
	If the sisters throughout the Territory, and
especially those who occupy positions as officers
of the Relief Societies, will aid us by their
influence, by forwarding contributed articles,
short and suitable for these columns, and by
increasing our subscription list, we will en-
deavor to labor with all diligence and faithful-
ness to meet their desires in making such a
journal as will best represent the women of
Utah, their wants and wishes.


﻿AT THE FAIR.
	The Relief Societies, from different parts,
manifested their interest in the progress of
home science, by contributing handsomely to
the many attractions, useful and ornamental,
exibited at the Territorial Fair, considering
the time allowed them after being notified that
they were solicited and expected to take part in
it. The Societies of the Third, Seventh,
Eighth, Ninth, Twelfth, Fourteenth and
Twentieth Wards of this city were represented;
also those of Ogden, Bountiful, and Lehi.
Articles belonging to individual members of
other Societies were presented, but so far as we
have been able to ascertain, the above named
were the only Societies specified. Premiums
were awarded to those Societies as follows:
	For the best collection of articles, useful and
ornamental, 14th Ward Relief Society, silver
medal; 2nd best, 9th Ward Relief Society,
$2 00; third best, 12th Ward, $1 00.
	Ornamental needle work, 9th Ward R. S.,
$2 00.
	Ottoman cover, 2nd best, 7th Ward R. S.,
$1 00.
	Netted collar, 9th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Worked collar, Lehi R. S., $2 00.
	Crochet work, 2nd best, 12th Ward R. S.,
$1 00. 	
	Patchwork quilt, 2nd best, 14th Ward R. S.,
$1 00. 
	Album quilt, 20th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Knitted work, Bountiful R. S., $2 00.
	Knitted spread, 12 Ward R. S. $2 00; 2nd
best, 3rd Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Straw hat, 14th Ward, R. S., $2 00; 2nd best,
20th Ward R. S., $1 00.
	Straw bonnet, Lehi R. S., $2 00; 2nd best,
Bountiful R. S., $I 00.
	Silk embroidery, 9th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Best spread of home raised cotton, Lehi R.
S. $2 00.
	Feather plumes, (white and colored) Lehi R.
S.,	$2 00.
	Worsted embroidered slippers, 7th Ward R.
S., $2 00.		’
	Braided watch case, 2nd best, 12th Ward R.
S.,	$I 00.
	Best rag carpet, Ogden R. S., $2 00.
	Several of the articles which drew prizes were
got up in very little time, and had the invita-
tion to the Societies been issued a month earlier


the exhibition of articles contributed by them
would have been much better.
	Taken altogether the Fair was quite success-
ful, which must be a cause of gratification to
the Board of Directors of the D. A. & M. Soci-
ety; and the ladies have reason to feel satisfied
with their share in its attractiveness. In the
department devoted to art were some very
beautiful specimens of ladies’ work in wax,
which drew prizes and were greatly admired by
all who saw them; and the specimens of differ-
ent kinds of work exhibited by individual
ladies, as well as by the Relief Societies,showed
highly cultivated taste and excellence of work-
manship in a very superior degree.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CONFERENCE.
	The Forty-Second Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, which commenced on Sunday morning,
October 6th, the usual time for the beginning
of the Fall Conference, was a period of true re-
joicing to the honest Saints who had the privi-
lege of being present and hearing the instruc-
tions given from the stand. The same peaceful,
charitable and intelligent spirit which ever
characterizes these Conferences prevailed at
the late one, and the counsel and admonitions
offered for the consideration of the people should
be long and well remembered. And not only
kept in rememberance, but put into daily prac-
tice by all who have the testimony of the Holy
Spirit that the principles taught them are pure,
and essential to the promotion of peace, happi-
ness and prosperity in this and in a future state
of existence. During the forenoon of the first
day of Conference, President Young remarked
to the Saints that when left to themselves for a
short time they were apt to begin to look at the
failings of others, forgetful of their own, and
thus lose the Spirit of light and deceive them-
selves. He said that prosperity would be given
to a portion of the Saints, while others could
not bear it but would be overthrown thereby.
	Who would not like to be prosperous in their
efforts to accomplish what they believe to be
right? Would it not “pay” any believer in the
Scriptures to “Seek the Kingdom of Heaven
and its righteousuess,” thus laying a sure foun-
dation upon which to build those things for
which the whole human family are striving-
riches, power, glory? There would certainly be
more wisdom in looking to ourselves and seeing
that we are prepared to receive blessings as they
are handed out to us, that we may not be over-
thrown by any of them, than in running wild
after the follies and vanities of the world, as
some of the brethren and sisters seem to be do-
ing. For as fast as we humble ourselves and
make ready, all the riches and glory that we
can take care of will be given to us.
	The President also remarked that “If the
Lord designs to try His people in all things as
has been spoken, we should see to it and be
prepared for each event as it transpires. For we
live in the fulness of times, when the Lord will
come to reign as King of Kings, and He should
be our law giver.”


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
The Report of the Hyrum Society was re-
ceived too late for publication this number, but
will appear in our next.
Provo and Logan are talking of papers, and
each will probably have one before a great
while. Southern Utah, too, should support a
larger sheet than the “Pomologist,” while in
Mr. J. E. Johnson it has a veteran editor of ex-
perience and ability.
"Will correspondents have the kindness,
in every instance, to send their names with
[new column]
their contributions? This is not that they may
be published, but that we may know who the
writers are. We have contributions now which
we hesitate to use, solely because the names of
the writers did not accompany the manuscripts.
We are pleased to note the prosperity of the
“Ogden Junction," which has changed its
semi-weekly form to a quarto shape, with a
new and hansome heading; and is published as
a daily as well. The “Junction” is a lively,
wide-awake sheet, which continues to grow in
public favor; and under the editorial and busi-
ness management of Mr. Penrose has been
made a financial success. It has our best
wishes for its continued prosperity.
The mild, beautiful weather, which prevailed
during the session of the Territorial Fair and
Semi-Annual Conference, gave additional cause
for enjoyment and gratitude to the people who
attended both with a desire to be pleased and
benefitted, in connection with the excellent
music afforded by the bands and the united
choirs, and the many splendid ideas given to
the Saints for reflection and general use.
President George A. Smith leaves this
morning for the East, accompanied by Elder
Feramorz Little. President Smith designs to
visit several parts of the United States, some
countries of Europe, and the Holy Land during
his absence, which he expects will extend to
about a year. The faith and prayers of the
Saints will be with him and the company that
will travel with him, who leave about the 26th
instant, during their absence.
The many friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow
will be pleased to learn that she is to make one
of the company that is to start about the 26th
of this month for a trip through a portion of the
United States and a visit to some other countries,
including the Holy Land. That she will go
with the faith and blessings of the Sisters who
have known and appreciated her good works in
Zion, is fully evinced by the many tokens for-
warded to that effect. Prayers will be offered
up on every hand, for her good health and
pleasure while she will be absent, and for her
early and safe return to her mountain home.
A Teachers’ Association was organized in
this City during the recent Conference, the
Convention of which it was the outgrowth be-
ing well attended by teachers from different
parts of the Territory. The Association is a
good one; its objects should command the sup-
port of every person in the Territory who has
the cause of education at heart, and its efforts
cannot result other than in good. Still, we
were disappointed in one thing connected with
it. There are many ladies engaged in the pro-
fession of teaching in the Territory, and who
are doing good work; yet on looking over the
names of the officers we do not find a lady’s
among them.
At a meeting of the Superintendents and
Teachers of Sabbath Schools, held on the even-
ing of the 7th inst., at the City Hall of this
City, nearly all the Counties in the Territory
and Wards of this City were represented. Many
Interesting topics pertaining to the best meth-
ods of conducting Sabbath Schools were ad-
vanced and dwelt upon, by several members;
and much encouragement and credit was given
to schools in general. Sabbath School Jubilees,
it is contemplated, will be held semi-annually
In Ogden, hereafter. So much good is believed
to have resulted from the one lately held there,
that all are anxious to have an improved repe-
tition, and an expansion of the blessings real-
ized, about the 1st of May next. Other organi-
zations of the same kind will, doubtless, adopt
similar proceedings for the gratification of
Sabbath School attendants, and the prosperity
of the Schools,


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
				   ——
			KAYSVILLE, Sept., 26th; 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In looking over the last number of the
EXPONENT, I felt thankful that our Father
in Heaven had given us an opportunity of
expressing our feelings with regard to 
"polygamy," as it is called. I have had a 
practice of twenty years in it, and I know
and can testify to the world that it is a pure
and holy principle; and if it  practiced ac-
cording to the will and design of our Father
in Heaven, it cannot fail to ennoble and ex-
alt the sons and daughters of Adam. I know
that no true Latter-day Saint can honestly
say that "polygamy" is not true. We are 
not as foolish as many suppose us to be. We
know in whom we have trusted. We do
not count the trials of this present life
worthy to be compared with the glory which
will be given unto us, if we will faithfully
discharge our duties. We did not come on
this earth like butterflies for gaudy show,
but we came here to help  accomplish the
will of God. We do not care what the 
world may think, or say, about us; it has no
effect upon a true Latter-day Saint; and they
who profess to be Saints who do not see
that plurality is right, should never raise
their hands or voices against it, for if they
do they will instead of injuring us bring
down the displeasure of an angry God upon
themselves. There is one thing the world
may rest assured of; that as long as the
Kingdom of God remains upon the earth, so 
long "polygamy" will remain. The wicked
may threaten and lay secret plans to try to
destroy us; but that God who has thus far
brought us safely through all the changing
scenes which we have been subject to, will
continue to overrule all things for the good
of His children, and for the building up of 
His Kingdom.								S.


﻿A MUSICAL WAIF.
				      —
	One of the finest specimens of home pro-
duction that we found, while attending the
Territorial Fair, was a beautiful little “music
box,” which not only performed nicely with-
out the trouble of winding up, but had also
the remarkable power of self locomotion.
The only unpleasantness connected with its
intonations, was while we listened it played
but one tune and that in rather a high key.
Our attention was drawn to the little “in-
strument,” standing by its self in the hall,
by its mournful yet lusty rendering of “I
can’t find my mama,” wbich it continued to
play while we stood by for a minute or so.
Our sympathies were aroused, and bending
down we endeavored by gently patting, and
saying something of a soothing and hopeful
nature, to change the tune or stop the music;
but we started up in dismay upon finding
that this only made it strike an octave high-
er and continue the same tune with double
the force. We felt like taking that strangely
attractive yet neglected bit of household
furniture in our arms, and lulling it into
quietness; but we had read upon so many
other articles, “Please don’t touch,” that al-
though this precious little token did not
bear the signal, we thought perhaps we had
better not interfere with it farther, and so
passed on. After a little while, we made it
in our way to pass the spot again, but the
music had ceased and the instrument was
gone. Likely the owner had been around
and concluded, as it was Saturday in the
afternoon, it might as well go home. We
made several enquiries concerning it, but
did not ascertain to whom it belonged.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿ LINES.
WRITTEN FOR ISABEL HAMILTON.

	[PUBLISHED BY REQUEST.]
Sister give thy baby up—
	It is thy Father's will;
The little time he stayed with you
	A mission 'twas to fill.

He was a little angel sent,
	From fairer worlds on high,
To take a body here on earth
	The laws of life to try.

But now it is the Savior calls
	The little sufferer home;
Why should we mourn to lay him down
	When he his work hath done?

Our Father we now dedicate
	This baby unto Thee:
May we be worthy still to claim
	Him in eternity.
					MARGRET A. WHITE.


﻿BEECHER ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
				  —
	We can see no necessity for going back
to “an ancient Semitic nation and a king
who had seven hundred wives,” to deter-
mine the question of woman’s rights. Ask
some men of the present age, good, noble,
honest, temperate and intelligent men,
with two, five or ten wives each, and they
will answer that woman should not only be
granted suffrage but should be free to avail
herself of every advantage which men have
for gaining useful knowledge. One of their
mottoes is “educate the mothers, elevate her
children.” The following ideas are sound
and correct, and it is a pity that all men do
not think with Beecher on the subject in
question:
	People fear the effect upon the family if
women should vote and think. They think
that the tenderness and sweetness of the
family relation has something to do with
weakness. It has much to do with fineness,
but not with weakness. It is not the fact of
woman’s looking up to man that pleases
him—it is that in her that looks up. We
know what Solomon said of woman without
thought and without judgment, and he
surely ought to know—he had seven hun-
dred wives. If the question of Woman’s
rights is to be determined by quoting the
Old Testament, I have but a word to say: It
is the last question which ought to be de-
cided for us by an ancient Semitic nation
and a king who had seven hundred wives.
A greater freedom for woman will not unsex
her. That is the very fear that the Orient-
als everywhere have to-day, and you laugh
at them. Once, in Athens, no woman could
learn literature, eloquence or philosophy
unless she were a courtesan. The virtuous
mother and wife were denied these refine-
ments, this knowledge, which were thus
made the insignia of unvirtue. Since then,
woman has steadily progressed through the
centuries, until now she is a leader in litera-
ture, foremost among artists. Has litera-
ture, art and philosophy made her less fit
for a wife and mother? Does it take away
taste and destroy refinement to ponder
deeply? Make mothers more and you make
their children more. You will not make
them coarse by giving them power. Is God
coarse because he is infinite? That which
the family needs more than anything else Is
a higher state of womanly development.


A LADY of San Francisco, named Mrs.
Chloe Shorey, is making a silk quilt, which
is to contain upwards of 17,000 pieces. The
same lady won a prize at a State Fair in
Vermont for the superior beauty and artistic
skill displayed in a quilt which contained up-
wards of 20,000 pieces, some years ago when
a resident of that State.


﻿GRAINS OF GOLD.
			      —
	LOVE is to the moral nature what the sun
is to the earth.—Balzac.
	ONE of the best remedies for the ills of
life is to have so much noble occupation as
to forget them.
	ONE may live as a conquerer, a king, or a
magistrate; but he must die as a man—no
discount on that.
	BASE all your actions upon a principle of
right; preserve your integrity of character,
and in doing this never reckon the cost.
	THE nerve which never relaxes, the eye
which never blanches, the thought which
never wanders—these are the masters of
victory.
	MEN are often capable of greater things
than they perform; they are sent into the
world with bills of credit, and seldom draw
to their full extent.
	THE following sentiment, given at a rail-
way festival, shows the heart of a true man:
“Our mothers—the only faithful tenders
who never misplace a switch.”
	COURAGE and modesty are virtues which
every sort of society reveres, because they
are virtues which cannot be counterfeited;
also they are known by the same hue.
	TRUE courage is cool and calm. The
bravest of men have the least of brutal,
bullying insolence, and in the very time of
danger are found the most serene and free.
	THE hardest thing in the world for a little
man to learn is that people don’t give them-
selves the trouble to think abou this littleness.
This is equally true in its moral application, 
	I FEEL that I am growing old for want of
somebody to tell me that I am looking as
young as ever. Charming falsehood! There
is a vast deal of vital air In loving words.—
Lander.
	THOSE who retire from the world on ac-
count of its sins and peskiness, must not
forget that they have yet to keep company
with a person who wants just as much
watching as anybody else. 
	WHEN a man thinks that nobody cares
for him, and that he is alone in a cold and
selfish world, he would do well to ask him-
self what he has done to make anybody care
for and to love him. And a woman has a
perfect right to do the same.
	FOR your own, as well as for your child-
ren’s sake, learn to speak low. They will
remember that tone when your head is un-
der the willows. So, too, will they remem-
ber a harsh and angry tone. Which legacy
will you leave your children?
	IT is noble and a great thing to cover the
blemishes and to excuse the faults and fail-
ings of a friend; to draw a curtain before
his stains, and to display his perfections; to
bury his weakness in silence, but to pro-
claim his virtues on the housetop.
	IT is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy: you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is
rust upon the blade. It is not the revolu-
tion that destroys the machinery, but the
friction. Fear secretes acids; but love and
trust are sweet juices.—Beechea.
	IF we work upon marble, it will perish;
if we work upon brass, time will effect it; if
we rear temples, they will crumble into dust;
but if we work upon the immortal minds—if
we imbue them with principles, with the
just fear of God and our fellow men—we en-
grave on those tabletssomething which will
brighten to all eternity.


﻿The Woman’s Club House in New York
will be ready for occupancy this Winter.


﻿LOVE.
				   —
	I wish that dear word, so expressive and
so real in its beautiful significance, was not 
so much abused by praters who do not un-
derstand, or else do not stop to consider its
true meaning and worth. It is always an-
noying to me to hear love spoken of in a
trifling and heartless manner by the un-
thinking or vicious. Why should they gos- 
sip and laugh over a theme so holy! A great, 
fine, noble looking man—a bachelor—whose
very smile bore indications of disappointed
hopes, decided once that love, like wine,
had become so much adulterated that there
remained nothing genuine about it. It
would have sounded more philosophical, I 
thought, had he said that love, like woman,
had been underestimated so much and so
long that its real value was now rarely, if
ever ascertained and appreciated. The fact
that many people who make and sell wines 
for the sake of the profits they realize from 
so doing, are not honest enough to care any- 
thing abut the quality of the liquor pro- 
duced, only as its price is affected, is no 
proof that if a man grows grapes and makes 
his own wine, he cannot have it as pure 
and sweet as if there were no such thing In
existence as adulterated wine. And because
we do not find the world full of love like
that of home, is no sign that it has ceased to
exist in its true, native,guileless state. “True
love seeks the happiness and welfare of its
object.” It is a pitiable heart that has only 
room in it for one individual, or even a
small circle of near friends and relatives.
The lover of mankind labors for the good of
the human family, and he will never be left
without love, the purest and best, for it 
reigns predominant in his own breast.
									L.


﻿THE PHILOSOPHY Of RAIN.—To under- 
stand the philosophy of this beautiful and
often sublime phenomenon, so often wit-
nessed since the creation of the world, and
so essential to the very existence of plants
and animals, a few facts derived from ob-
servation and a long train of experiments 
must be remembered:
	1.	Were the atmosphere every where at
times of a uniform temperature, we should 
never have rain, or hail, or snow. The wa- 
ter absorbed by it in evaporation from the
sea and earth’s surface, would descend in
an imperceptible vapor, or cease to be ab-
sorbed by the air when it was once fully
saturated.
	2.	The absorbing power of the atmos-
phere, and consequently its capacity to re- 
tain humidity, is proportionately greater in
warm than cold air.
	3.	The air near the surface of the earth
is warmer than it is in the region of the
clouds. The higher we ascend from the 
earth the colder do we find the atmosphere. 
Hence the perpetual snow on very high  
mountains in the hottest climate.
	Now, when, from continued evaporation, 
the air is highly saturated with vapor, 
though it be invisible and the sky cloudless,
f its temperature is suddenly reduced by 
cold currents descending from above, or
rushing from a higher to a lower latitude,
or by the motion of saturated air to a cooler 
latitude, its capacity to retain moisture is 
diminished, clouds are formed, and the re- 
suit is rain. Air condenses as it cools, and, 
like a sponge filled with water and com- 
pressed, pours out the water which its di- 
minished capacity cannot hold. How sing- 
ular, yet how simple, the philosophy of rain! 
What Omniscience could have devised such
an admirable arrangement for watering the 
earth?


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRIP LIGHTLY.
		  —
Trip lightly over trouble,
	Trip lightly over wrong.
We only make grief double
	By dwelling on it long.
Why clasp woe’s hand so tightly?
	Why sigh o’er blossoms dead?
Why cling to forms unsightly?
	Why not seek joy instead?

Trip lightly over sorrow,
	Though all the day be dark,
The sun will shine to-morrow,
	And gaily sing the lark;
For hopes have not departed,
	Though roses may have fled;
Then never be down-hearted,
	But look for joy instead.

Trip lightly over sadness,
	Stand not to rail at doom;
We’ve pearls to string of gladness,
	On this side of the tomb;
While stars are nightly shining,
	And the Heaven is overhead,
Encourage not repining,
	But look for joy instead.


﻿JAMES FISK AND THE NEWSBOY.
				——
	 Stories of Col. Fisk are constantly in circu-
lation—some true, others not; but a little
incident which occurred not many months
before his death is perhaps one of the most
I touching of any that have been given to the
public. This one Mrs. Fisk takes especial
pleasure in recalling, illustrating, as it does,
her husband’s kindness of heart and readi-
ness of sympathy and help to those who
I needed aid. Col. Fisk had often noticed in
Twenty-third street a little crippled news-
boy, and one day he spoke to him in his
bluff, off-hand manner:
	“Well, my boy, how’s business?”
	“Not very good, sir,” was the reply.
	“What’s the matter?”
	“Why, you see I’m lame and can’t sell 
my papers very well.”
	“Not a very good lookout for you, is it? I
say, my boy, how would you like to go into
business with me?”
	The boy looked perplexed and eyed the
Colonel curiously.
	“I think we might strike a bargain. You
come to the Opera House at 11 this morn-
ing. I’ve got a plan for you. Now be on
time.”
	At 11 o’clock the boy was there, quite
curious to know what the Colonel wanted.
	“Hulloa, boy, you’re a good one. Now
see here, do you know a place for a paper
stand?”
	“Yes, sir, tip-top.”
	“Where is it?”
	“Down here at the corner.”
	“How much will a stand cost?”
	“Lots of money; much as fifty or a hun-
dred dollars.”
	“You don’t say so; why that’s a fortune.
Do you think there’s monoy to be made
there?”
	“Yes I do. It’s a first-rate place.”
	“Wel, I’ll get a carpenter to make the
stand and I’ll stock it; then you shall take
care of it and we’ll be partners; you and I
will go into the paper business.” 
	Col. Fisk then arranged with the boy
what part of the profits he should receive,
told him when the stand should be ready
and sent him on his way rejoicing. The plan
was very successful. Trade was good, and
evey week the boy carried his share of the
money to his partner. Seeing the boy’s
determination. Col. Fisk quietly put the
money aside, and one day gave it all to the
boy, releasing him from his contract to pay
any part of the money to himself. When
Col. Fisk died there was nowhere a sincerer
mourner than this little newsboy, and the
little stand on the corner was heavily draped
on the day of the burial.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				     —
The sum of $836 was realized by the read-
ings of Miss Charlotte Cushman at Newport,
given in aid of the Newport hospital.
	THE LOUISVILLE “Courier-Journal” says
that Judge Davis is the proprietor of a smile
that would make Colfax turn green with
jealousy. It “commences in the center and
spreads all over his face like a batter-cake”
	A GOOD WOMAN never grows old. Years
may pass over her head, but if benevolence
and virtue dwell in her heart she is as
cheerful as when the spring of life first
opened to her view. When we look upon a
good woman we never think of her age; she
looks as charming as when the rose first
bloomed on her cheek. That rose has not
faded yet; it will never fade. In her neigh-
borhood she is a friend and benefactor; in
the church the devout worshipper and ex-
emplary Christian. Who does not love and
respect the woman who has passed her days
in acts of kindness and mercy; who has been
the friend of man and God, her life has been
a scene of kindness and love, devotion to
truth and religion? We repeat, such a wo-
man cannot grow old. She will always be
fresh and buoyant in her spirit and active in
her humble deeds of mercy and benevolence.
If the young lady desires to retain the bloom
and beauty of youth, let her not yield to the
sway of fashion and folly; let her love truth
and virtue, and to the close of life she will
retain those feelings which now make life
appear a garden of sweets, ever fresh and
green.—Ex.
	PRINCESS ALEXDROWA Troubescheneff,
nee Stratoneroskoff, (or words to that effect,)
sailed from Bremen recently on the New
York steamer. She comes to the United
States to join the “Oneida Society,” New
York. The Princess belongs to one of the
families of the old feudal nobility, is im-
mensely wealthy, and enjoys a certain popu-
larity as a graceful writer of local plays.
She also published a few years since a small
volume of Russian poetry, in the Deshoul-
lieries style. She is a Princess of no small
talent, but her “forte” is the languages; she
speaks no less than seven of them. Is it
possible that a person so richly gifted shall
soon be seen among that sisterhood of the
Bloomer costume, in those odious brown
frocks and drawers to match; her beautiful
tresses cut to her ears, and those lovely
white hands busily engaged manufacturing
apple sauce? The New York “Herald”
may spare Mr. Stanley this time. She has
declared, on leaving, she would refuse to be
interviewed by American newspaper re-
porters.—“New York Herald.”
	“OYEZ, OYEZ! Advance to the bar Miss
Phoebe Couzens, and receives an address of
welcome from Judge McKean and the hearty
congratulations of her brethren in the law.
All this in Salt Lake City, on motion of
Governor Woods. At the same time Miss
Snow, daughter of the Territory Attorney
General, was also admitted on motion of ex-
United States Attorney Hempstead. What
with the progress of the gentler sex in
Wyoming politics and Utah law, that part
of America promises to be ‘the woman’s
kingdom’. Now let us see if the new law-
yeresses, bretherin’ and sisterin’ of the bar,
do themselves proud.”
	We know that fair Phoebe will. She was
exceedingly fair to look upon, and had
sweet, winning ways and a musical voice.
But why, oh! Phoebe, goest thou to Salt
Lake? Was it in search of a part of a man
in that polygamous region, when thou
couldst have had that here?—“Washington
Capital.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	THREE-FOURTHS of the pleasures of a holi-
day lie in the planning of it.
	HENRY W. LONGFELLOW pays a tax of
$2,666, and James Russell Lowell $753.
	DUVALL county, Fla., with a population
of less than 12,000, has, during the last
twenty-four months, had 52 homicides and
suicidal deaths, and 32 fatal accidents. Only
one murderer has been hung.
	REV. DeWitt Talmadge’s Tabernacle in
Brooklyn started three years ago with 19
members. To the 19 have been added 500
by letter or profession, and the congrega-
tion has given for all objects $98,800.
	JUSTICE is impartial. P. D. Banks, an
Iowa man, has no money to speak of and
goes to the penitentiary for ten years for
robbing the mails. Simon Smith, of the
same State, equally guilty, and a counter-
feiter besides, pays $2,400 and escapes.
	A NIAGARA Falls correspondent has spent
some time in classifying the arrivals for last
season, which numbered 41,975; New York
heads the list with 14,978; Illinois shows 1,-
490; the British Provinces, 1,565; Europe,
1,100; the Orient, 105, and Africa, 4.
	THE collar of the Order of the Golden
Fleece, which was sent by King Amadeus
of Spain to the Comte de Flanders, is the
identical collar which was worn by Christo-
pher Columbus, and with which he was in-
vested with the Order by Ferdinand and
Isabella, in honor of the discovery of America.
	THE eleven Territories, as accurately as
can at present be ascertained, contain over
one billion and a quarter acres, exceeding
by nearly two hundred thousand square
miles the aggregate territory of all the
present admitted States of the Union. The
Territory of Alaska, containing 369,529,600
acres, is included in the number stated.
	GARDEN Islahd is the name of a little is-
land in Lake Ontario, near the city of King-
ston. The population is about 1,000. Twenty
years ago a law was passed that no liquor
should on any pretense be brought on the
island. There is not a pauper nor a police-
man among the inhabitants, and not a case
has come before the magistrate for fifteen
years.
	A DETROIT man recently forswore tobac-
co. He eats a few things to get through
each day. The following is a list of a few
little things required the first day:	Six
oranges, fourteen apples, ten cents worth of
peanuts, two sticks of spruce gum, three
large sticks of candy, a pint of roasted chest-
nuts, one cake of maple sugar, three cents
worth of liquorice root, and half an ounce of
camomile blows.
	A COLORED member of the Texas Legis-
lature was recently seen with a roll of green-
backs in his hand, over which he chuckled
so loudly as to attract the attention of a by-
stander, who said to him: “What are you
laughing at, Jim?” Jim replied, “You see
the money?” “Yes.” “Well, boss, I just
got that for my vote; I’se been bought four
or five times in my life, and dis is de fust
time I ever got the cash myself.”
	A WONDERFUL cave has been discovered
in Center county, Pennsylvania, said to be
equal, if not superior, to the Mammoth
Cave, of Kentucky. When once inside, the
most magnificent and delightfully beautiful
sights are presented to the gaze. The rooms
are numerous and large, but have not yet
been fully explored. Directly under the
cave is another, supposed, to be much larger
and richer in its queer and Indian-like
specimens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S AIMS.
				     —
	“Our aims have' been too low we; must
improve them.”
	It is argued by some that we need incen-
tives. We need our eyes opened and our
understandings quickened to make us com-
prehend the incentives which we have al-
ways had, to induce us to educate ourselves.
Should not the knowledge that by so doing
we not only benefit ourselves, but improve
society and expand and elevate the nature
of future generations, be a sufficient incite-
ment to energy and perseverance?
	Too many gay, thoughtless young women,
who have abundance of time and talent,
were they but properly applied, to make of
themselves some of the brightest ornaments
of society, give their attention to nothing
but fashionable nonsense and vanity. Many
a superb form and lovely face seem to be
considered by their possessor to have been
bestowed upon her for no other purpose than
for making conquests and gaining a good
match. Many a fine, sweet voice exerts its
power only for the attraction of a set of
trifling, worthless admirers and flatterers.
What have our mothers been about! Why
have we not been taught to couple goodness
and intelligence with all these beautiful
gifts, these priceless endowments with which
God has blessed us, that the influence and
power we hold might be something worth!
Why do fathers, brothers, husbands and
lovers indulge and encourage inconsisten-
cies in dress and indolence, and yet exclaim
against them and against women as their
inventors! Why do they not lift us up, or
rather allow us to climb for ourselves? for it
is quite impossible for them to teach us
what we are not inclined to learn, but they
might assist and cheer us on when they see
us trying to improve our aims, instead of
seeking to decoy us back into the old chan-
nel of idleness and ignorance, by flattering
vanity and encouraging useless pastime.
Were there no future upon which to base
our aims, the satisfaction there is to be found
in deep thought and earnest study, in gain-
ing wisdom and cultivating intelligence, is
far greater than any enjoyment realized in
air castle-building.


﻿DANIEL BOON's sister Hannah is living in
Caldwell County, North Carolina. She is 85
years old.


Z. C. M. I.

	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,

Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-

riety of our Patrons.

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated

		SALT LAKE GLOVES.

	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics.

of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,

Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-

est possible figure.
						H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.
[new column]
LADIES!
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro- ’
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by.
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

			JOHNSON'S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of 
						J. E. JOHNSON,.  
					       	St. George, Utah.
[new column]


		WOMAN’ S EXPONENT.
		
		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women every where. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?  “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to he misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound 
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but 
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from 
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will he published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the  
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so 
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1Copy one year, $2.00			I Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00		10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents 
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,	
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
﻿VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1872. 		
.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE EASIEST thing In the world to make
—a mistake.
	JUDGE CURTIS got eight thousand dollars
for defending Mrs. Fair, and securing her
acquittal. Crittenden only got a bullet.
	ON TUESDAY next, the 5th inst., the Uni-
ted States will elect the President for the
four years commencing March 4th, 1873.
	ONE'S TEETH chatters to think that while
Utah has been having a delightful Indian
Summer the crowning enjoyment of Michi-
ganders was sleigh-riding.
	STANLEY-AFRICANUS, the discoverer of
Livingstone, will lecture on his African ex-
perience, and may “discover” Salt Lake on
his way to the Pacific Coast.
	AGASSIZ "FISHED" in the Sacramento
river, and by exploding torpedoes caught
about a thousand. But it was science that
authorized the finny butchery.
	THE GREAT question of the coming Presi-
dential electian still remains undecided; and
radicals of the two contending parties con-
tinue slashing at each other with increas-
ing violence.
	“POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT” says Brigham
Young’s smallest child has forty-nine moth-
ers. If he appreciates the worth of one
mother as he should do, he must consider
that child blessed indeed.
	PAYMENT OF workmen on Mondays, in-
stead of Saturdays, is being agitated in the
east. A sensible movement, and one that
may prevent much intemperance, if it does
no further good, should it prevail.
	ONE OF the most shocking and terrible in-
cidents we find recorded in late news items,
is that of a little boy, in Lexington, only
seven years of age, purposely and deliber-
ately shooting and killing a little girl five
years of age.
	GREELEY SAYS “strategy in politics is the
tribute which craft pays to strength: The
wolf-skin proving too short, the fox’s tail is
pressed into service to piece it out.” That’s
quoting Bulwer’s “Richelieu” with a pres-
ant application.
	A GENTLEMAN in Paris had his false
teeth seized upon for debt; he claimed that
they were sacred, as a part of his person,
and that the officer had no right to touch
them, but the officer contended that he had.
Are teeth personal property? It is a tooth-
some query.
	AN IOWA patriarch is too old to be fash-
ionable. Over eighty, he is yet the father
of a three-year old baby, the last of thirty,
and is proud of his youngest. Here in Utah
such a man with his wife would command
respect, as an honor to the commonwealth.
How is it in Iowa?
	VIRGINIA, THE “Old Dominion,” still en-
joys horse racing with ladies for riders; and
at a recent fair in Culpepper, three fair
equestrians rode so well that the judges had
to decide by lot which should have the
prize. There is more vigor of body and
manly honesty to the next generation in
such exercises being enjoyed by the coming
mothers, than lolling in cushioned chairs
devouring trashy sentimental novels can
give.
[new column]
	INDIAN TROUBLES in Texas, in Dacotah,
on the line of the Northern Pacific, in Idaho,
Arizona, and in other parts of the great
sparcely settled portion of the United States,
while delegations of chiefs are visiting
Washington, and being feasted and petted
there. However wise may be the general
policy of Government towards the Indians,
it will be unsuccessful until honest men can
be found to act between the Government
and the Indians; and honest men seem a
scarce article in such positions.
	GROSS FRAUDS are charged in the late
Pennsylvania election; and what is worse,
in several instances glaring ones have been
proved. Just when money can buy the
requisite number of votes, or fraud secure
them, or both combined,to carry an election,
at that time republican liberty has received
its death blow in the country, and central-
ized tyranny of any pre-determined kind
need only wait the will of capitalists and
clever scoundrels who may be placed in con-
trol of election matters.
	A TERRIBLE horse disease is spreading
in epidemic form through the Eastern States.
Having made its appearance in Canada
about a month ago, it has spread into the
United States, and has attacked thousands
on thousands of animals. Science cannot
account for it, and the knowing ones are be-
wildered. It is one of the signs of the times
which the wise understand, but which those
who disregard the workings of a higher
Power among the nations vainly seek to
comprehend.
	SARAH M. HUNTINGDON, of Norwalk,
Connecticut, is likely to be the first woman
that will cast a vote for President of the
United States. On Saturday last, the 26th
ult., she was duly recognized by the select-
men of that town, and on next Tuesday can
cast her ballot for Grant or Greeley as potent-
ly as any “independent sovereign” in the
country. All honor to Norwalk, which has
set the example to all other towns in the
States, by following the lead of Utah and
Wyoming, in giving to woman representa-
tion with taxation.
	THE TRIAL of the New York official
thieves may be said to have commenced
with that of Mayor Hall, and so far the dis-
closures show how the tax payers of that
city were robbed. When New York, Phila-
delphia, Washington, Boston, Chicago, San
Francisco and a few other large cities weed
out their official rogues, their masculine de-
stroyers of virtue, and their dens of infamy
and vice, we will be content at their paying
a little attention to Utah. But their work
of justice and labor of charity should begin
at home.
	IF THE following could be adhered to and
its regulation respected the complaints
about tyrant officials and misconstructions of
law, order and justice, would cease to vex
the ears of the Government: “Complete
liberty and exact equality in the enjoyment
of all civil, political, public and private rights
should be established and effectually main-
tained throughout the Union by efficient
and appropriate State and Federal legisla-
tion. Neither law nor its administration
should admit of any discrimination in re-
[new column]
spect to citizens by reason of race, creed,
color, or previous condition of servitude.”
	AMONG THE most important events of the
current year will be counted the opening of
the telegraph lines across the continent of
South America, connecting Valparaiso with
Buenos Ayres, and to Australia, connecting
Melbourne and Singapore. When connec-
tions between Panama and Valparaiso, Egypt
and the Cape of Good Hope, Panama and
San Diego shall be made, telegraphic bonds
will then bind together the whole civilized
world. And railways and steamships will
hasten on, making the inhabitants of the
earth as near one family as their varied
customs and notions will admit of their be-
coming.
	J. A. FROUDE, the eminent English histo-
rian, has been telling New Yorkers what he
knows about Ireland’s dissatisfaction under
its subjugation to England; and frankly con-
fessed that, with other intelligent English-
men, he was at a loss to understand the
cause of that dissatisfaction. When such
men honestly admit their ignorance on so
important a matter, there is reason to hope
that it may be intelligently enquired into;
but in the past, the great blunder has been
one that is too common in many things and
with many persons, of imagining that every-
thing was understood, and proceeding to re-
move causes of evil which did not exist,
while the actual causes were left untouched
and undiscovered.
	“THERE IS no longer any temptation to
indulge in tight lacing for a small waist is
not now considered fashionable; that is, a
waist out of proportion to the height of the
figure and the breadth of the shoulders.
Fashion and comfort are, therefore, happily
in accordance with each other. Another re-
form is that the waist is now displayed the
natural length, which, in a properly pro-
portioned figure, is in a line midway between
the hip and the lowest rib.” We clip the
forgoing from a lady’s magazine. It is to
be hoped that news of this common-sense re-
form is being rapidly and widely spread,
and the change adopted. If fashion could
dispense with the temptation to indulge
in the use of high heels and hunch-backs,
and some other ridiculous, unnatural and
cruel customs, she would be a much more
pleasing and loveable tyrant than she now
appears.
	TWO EMINENT Americans have passed
from, earth since the last issue of the Ex-
ponent; one—Wm. H. Seward—eminent
as a statesman; the other—“Fanny Fern”—
famed in the world of letters. The nation
mourned the honored Seward, and unaffect-
ed sorrow was felt when his death was an-
nounced. The authoress, too, had a wide
circle of mourners. But death strikes the
lofty and the prominent with as little hesi-
tation as the lowest and most obscure. It is
the common lot, and they meet it best who
meet it bravely after well spent lives. The
people of Utah should preserve green the
memory of Mr. Seward, who, animated by
liberal views and possessing a statesman’s
enlightened and far-seeing mind, was over
opposed to the persecution and proscription,
sought to be directed against them, and en-
deavored to have their rights as Ameri-
can citizens justly observed.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THOU ART GOING.
		     —
RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO MISS ELIZA R.
	SNOW ON HER APPROACHING JOURNEY TO
	JERUSALEM.
					—
Thou art going dear sister, to th’ land long forsaken,
	Whose people, a hiss and a by-word, have been;
Who rejected the Savior, the way of salvation,
	And for centuries have dwindled in darkness and
	sin.

But the Spirit of God is now moving to gather,
	A people once favored, as scriptures record;.
Their cities and temples again there will flourish,
	And themselves live in peace, for a time, saith the
		Lord.

And thou, when thy feet tread the paths once familiar
	And dear to the Savior while dwelling below.
Thy soul will go forth in communion with Heaven,
	And glad strains of praise from thy full heart will
		flow.

Oh! what a rich feast, to a nature like thine,
	To view the paths trod, by that being divine,
And to feel that ere long He will tread them again,
	And be known to the Jews, as the Savior of men!

Thou art going, and with thee our blessings will go,
	And we’ll pray for thy safety thy long journey
	through;
We will not forget the rich counsels you’ve given,
	For they will refine and prepare us for Heaven.

May Heaven’s rich blessings rest on your companions,
	And Israel’s God be your guide and your friend;
May angels protect you, while absent from Zion,
	And guard you safe home, when your journeyings
	end.
						MRS. ANNE RANDALL.
	SPANISH FORK, Sept. 30th 1872.

And let us add, in friendship’s warmest tone,
	Servant of Zion’s daughters, not alone
We crave for thee the wage of peace and health,
	But new, bright stores of intellectual wealth;
Rich gems of thought, sweet words of solace, too,
	Thou’ll glean and bring to us, beloved and true.
										LULA.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

		 HYRUM, Cache County, Utah,
					October 9th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Female Relief Society of this Ward
was organized nearly four years ago, and 
since that time we have accomplished much 
good. Our Society is in a healthy condi-
tion; we have endeavored to do all in our
power to comfort and bless the poor, the
widow, the fatherless and the sick; thus as-
sisting our Bishop and Teachers in some of
their labors. In addition to this we have 
sent ninety dollars to assist in gathering the
poor, and have given forty dollars to aid our
Sunday School in purchasing a library and
rewards. In connection with this Society
there is a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation. We have a braiding school and
make straw hats in Summer.
	Although the outside world may number
us with the "poor, oppresse women of
Utah," we experience great pleasure in say-
ing, we have lived in the States and in the
old world, but prefer living in, and enjoy-
ing the glorious liberties of Utah and her
"Mormon" institutions, and in seeking to 
fill woman's mission as wives, mothers and
daughters, aiding suffering humanity
wherever found.
	"The widow's heart shall share our joy,
		The orphan and oppressed
	Shall see we love the sweet employ
		To succor the distressed,"
And thus maintain woman's legitimate
rights.
		CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President,
		MARTHA WARD,
		LUCY WILSON;	Counselors.
			HARRISVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief notice relative to the
advancement and progress of the F.R.
[new column]
Society of Harrisville, Weber County, which
was re-organized the 31st of March last, as
follows: Melissa A. Shurtliff, President;
Sarah J. Taylor and Nancy Rawson, Coun-
selors; Mary E. Taylor, Secretary, and
Louise Harris, Treasurer. We meet semi-
monthly, and our meetings are well attended.
Peace and good order prevail.  All seem
willing and anxious to do all they can to ad-
vance the welfare and objects of the Society,
which is small; but we have added $54 75
to its funds since the re-organization. We
receive and read the Exponent, and feel
much interested in the matter therein con-
tained.
			MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, President.
			MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
					—
				SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
	A celebration in honor of the organization
of the F. R. Society of Springville, which
was organized June 7th, 1868, was held in
the meeting House of this place, September
2th, 1872, the President of the Society,
Mrs. Cynthia Clyde, presiding.
	The choir sang pieces selected for the
occasion. The Financial report read by Mrs.
Hannah Carter, Secretary, showed that since
the organization $1,387 20 had been re-
ceived in donations, profits on labor, &c.
Disbursed to the poor, $672 68; paid to the
Provo Factory, on shares for the benefit of
the Society, $188 43; paid to the P. E. Fund,
$30; donated to the building of the Temple,
$305 70; donated for public purposes, $174.-
50.
	Addresses made by Bishop Bringhurst
and some of the Sisters, were instructing
and encouraging; and were followed by a
dialogue entitled “A Sewing Circle,”, by
twelve young ladies and one gentleman.
Songs, Recitations, Toasts, &c., followed.
			HANNAH CARTER, Secretary.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	IF a woman aspires to be a proficient in
music, dancing, dressmaking, millinery, or
any other pleasant and useful forte, she ap-
plies her attention to it and takes pains to
acquaint herself with the various require-
ments which are likely to meet her in her
chosen pursuit. But the one great object
for which woman was designed, is too gener-
ally totally neglected, until she crosses the
threshold, enters a new world, and has ac-
tually taken upon her, by vow, the greatest
responsibilities which ever are or can be
placed upon her. She has promised by sacred
covenant to be a true, a faithful wife. How
little must girls realize of the vast import-
ance attached to that promise, which to ful-
fill with dignity and wisdom, requires the
choicest learning and discretion. True it is
that a good, kind, daughter and sister can
hardly fail to make a tender, patient, wife
and mother; but frequently much more is
required of the wife than the daughter ever
thinks of. Husbands are not likely to be as
charitable and considerate with their young
wives as parents with their daughters. And
it should be remembered that perfection in
any one branch of education, or even in
many of the most noble character, does .not
constitute a true wife. Whatever her other
attainments may be, if a woman does not
possess an even, well-governed temper, and
agreeable disposition, she will not make a
happy wife; for all other powers of mind and
body, it matters not how vivacious and bril-
liant they may appear at times, would fail
to create the requisite sunshine for the
rendering of a home cheerful and pleasant.
And in order to keep good natured, if a wo-
man is as sensitive and high-minded as any
man of common understanding would like 
[new colmn]
his wife to be, she must know how to con-
trive and manage her household affairs so as
to have every thing work smoothly, in
proper time and order, and have no jars to
interfere with the quiet concerns of every-
day life. Almost above every thing else,
she should be a first-class cook—i. e., she
should cultivate reason in this as well as
other things, and cook sensibly. In “John
Halifax” we find the following which recom-
mends itself:
	“Good temper, with many people, is
dependent upon good health; good health
upon good digestion; good digestion upon
wholesome, well-prepared food, eaten in
peace and pleasantness. Ill-cooked, untidy
meals are as great a cause for bad temper as
many a moral wrong; and a person of sensi-
tive physique may be nursed into a settled
hypochondria by living in close rooms,
where the sweet fresh air and sunshine are
determinedly shut out.”
	Potatoes.—No amount of fancy French
dishes can atone, at table, for want of skill
or care in cooking potatoes. Yet cooks often
fail in this simple and common dish. They
will put potatoes into cold water and bring
them slowly to a boil; or boil or bake them
too long. They should be removed from
the fire as soon as done. If boiled the water
should be drained off immediately.
	Potato Pudding.—Four ounces of pota-
toes, three ounces of white sugar, the same
of butter, two lemons, four eggs. Rub the
boiled potatoes through a sieve, add the
sugar pounded, and the butter; mix well;
then add the eggs well beaten; and last of
all the juice and grated rind of the lemons.
Line your dish with thin puff paste, making
it thicker at the edges; bake in a moderate
oven, not letting the pudding stand long
before baking; and it must be well stirred
just before putting it into the oven.
	Extraordinary stories are told of the
healing properties of a new oil, which is
easily made from the yolks of hen’s eggs.
The eggs are first boiled hard and the yolks
are then removed, crushed, and placed over
a fire where they are carefully stirred until
the whole substance is on the point of
catching fire, when the oil separates and
may be tured off. One yolk will yield nearly
two teaspoonfuls of oil. It is in general use
among the colonists of South Russia, as a
means of curing cuts, bruises and scratches.
	To Cure Pimples.—Abstain from every-
thing containing melted butter and lard.
Take a thorough daily scrubbing from head
to foot. Sleep cool, drink pure water, think
pure thoughts, and live a pure life.


"WE HAVE,” said Mr. Cox, “fallen on an
evil time. The olden day, when austerity
and simplicity gave rule to manners and
men, when a sense of public duty was the
brightest virtue of the statesman, has be-
come a nebulous, dim and hazy; recollection.
Can we not redeem the time? Is there no
man who has the plainness and frugality,
the benevolence and justice, to meet the
crisis?” There are men, and women too,
who have still enough of elevated and un-
selfish principle about them to be willing to
undertake the redemption of the good times
past; but where there are so many slothful
and dishonest harpies seeking and obtaining
offices, as judges and rulers, all over the
country, in order that they may live from
the earnings of the people, and not have to
exert themselves, as honest men do, to ob-
tain a livelihood, Mr. Cox, or any one else
need not hope for a speedy reformation; for
no man good and great enough to create
one, is likely to be vested with the authori-
ty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ RESPONSIVE.

	TO MY MAGNANIMOUS FRIENDS.
	
	Impress’d with, kindness which exhales
		Beneficence unsought;		
	I fain would speak, but language fails
		To grasp the swelling thought.

	E’en gratitude, deep cherish’d word,
		Unable to express
	The feelings in my bosom stirr'd,
		Dissolves in thankfulness.

	I go with humble, grateful heart
		For every kindness shown:
	May Heav'n its richer gifts impart
		To each and every one.

	I go depending on the care
		Of God, our Father God;
	For which, I ask your faith and prayers,
		While I remain abroad.
	
	The warm emotions of the heart
		Too full for utterance,	
	Must bask in silence—must resort
		T' unspoken eloquence.
									ELIZA R. SNOW.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 26th, 1872.


﻿DIVERSIONS. 
				—
	MANY of the rich planters of Jamaica live
on coffee grounds.
	“DAUGHTERCULTURAL shows” is the
latest name for a family party.
	IF Adam is accountable for “consequen-
tial damages,” he will have a rough time of
it. 
	THE Jewish “Messenger” wishes Stanley
to try his skill on the ten lost tribes of
Israel. 
	BILLINGS says, “There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but i
have known a second wife to hurry it sum.”
	“DO YOU think,” asked Mrs. Pepper,
“that a little temper is a bad thing in a
woman?”
	“Certainly not, ma’am,” replied the gal-
lant phiolsopher; “it is a good thing, and she
ought never to lose it.”
	A MUSIC dealer has in his window a sen-
timental song thus marked: “Thou hast
loved me and left me, for twenty-five
cents.”
	A little girl was tenderly nursing her
sick doll the other day, and on her mother
asking what ailed it, she replied, “It’s got
the ‘Alabama claims very bad.”
	The Earl of Shaftesbury, noted for his or-
thodoxy, said lately that if the Pope had a
wife, she would not allow him for an hour to
remain in the belief that he was infallable.
	An old maid suggests that when men
break their hearts, it is all the same as
when a lobster breaks one of his claws—an-
other sprouts immediately, and grows in its
place.
	An Illinois lover closed a letter to his lady
sentimentally as follows; “My best loved
one, I chawed the postage stamp on your
last letter all to thunder, because I knew
you licked it on.”
	A clergyman addressed his female audit-
ors as follows: “Be not proud that our Lord
paid your sex the distinguished honor of ap-
pearing first to a female after resurrection,
for it was only that the glad tidings might
spread the sooner.”
	THE characteristic of the umbrella is its
power of changing shapes. You may leave
a bran new silk with an ivory and rosewood
handle at any public gathering, and within
three hours it will transform itself into light
blue or faded brown cotton, somewhat less
in size than a circus tent, with a handle like
a telegraph pole and five fractured ribs.


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	THE Queen of Sweden is a novelist. She
writes for the press over the nom de plume
of Annie Arden.
	ABBY Sage Richardson has a now lecture
for this season, on Sir Walter Raleigh and
his American voyages.
	A young lady in Georgia has petitioned
the Legislature to pass an act prohibiting
flirtation on the part of young men.
	A YOUNG lady in Harrisburg has been
made blind by the poisonous dyes in some
goods she has been sewing in a fashionable
dry goods house.
	CHICAGO has a shooting gallery for the ex-
clusive use of ladies, among whom there is
a growing restlessness to become proficient
with rifle and pistol.
	HARRIET Martineau and five hundred
other English women have petitioned the
House of Commons to dispense with the
“cat” as a means of punishment.
	A LONG Branch beauty was recently
weighed in her promenade costume and
turned the scales at 165 pounds. In her
bathing dress she weighs 106 pounds.
	In a Florida young ladies’ seminary the
thoughts of the inmates are taken from
dress, by putting the girls in uniform-
dark green for Winter and pink for Sum-
mer.
	“Dear me, how fluidly he talks,” said
Mrs. Partington recently at a temperance
meeting. “I am always rejoiced when he
mounts the nostral, for his eloquence warms
every catridge in my body.”
	Mrs. Richardson, of Cheshire, a relative
of Susan B. Anthony, who has carried on a
large farm for twelve years since her hus-
band’s death, thinks, now she is seventy-
seven years old, it is about time to retire
from business, and so is building a cottage
at the center of the town.
	Lilian Edgarton was lately compelled to
appear before a Memphis audience without
her lecture manuscript and her pretty dress,
both of the articles being in her trunk. She
compromised, however, by reading a sketch
of another lecture, and reciting “The
Launching of the Ship,” and the next even-
ing gave her lecture in full costume.
	Miss Edith Challis denies the truth of the
report of having been made the heiress of
an opulent old lady to whom she was kind
during her illness. Miss C. also says that
several pious English relatives, who had
ceased to recognize her since her connection
with the stage, became suddenly sociable,
and invited her to stay at their houses, on
learning that she had become a capitalist.
	The celerated lady dentist of Berlin, Mrs.
Henrietta Herschfeld, is described as a re-
fined and beautiful woman, with wonderful
strength in her small hand. She extracts
teeth with unsurpassed dexterity and pre-
cision. Moreover, she prepares well-written
articles for magazines, in which she instructs
mothers in regard to the care of children’s
teeth—a matter which seems not generally
understood in Germany.
	A SPINSTER who can stand the derogatory
remarks concerning old maids no longer,
writes to the Cincinnati “Times:” “I am
happy to say that I have for many years be-
longed to that class of much reviled women;
but many of my intimate friends have been
married women,and from them I have heard
more scandal and detraction, more jealousy
and rivalry, more of the spirit of ‘envy,
hatred, and malice and uncharitableness,’
than from any old maid I ever knew or heard
of.”


EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF
			GIRLS.
			  ——
	Nothing so tends to the degeneracy of
womanhood as a life of laziness and indulg-
ence—an aim for a wealthy husband, and
then life with no object nor aim beyond
raising a family, whether taste lies in that
direction or not. It is not only bad for
physical health, but is bad for moral also.
	A very serious and common mistake in
the training of our girls is the neglect defi-
nitely to provide against the vicissitudes of
life with the faculty of noble self support.
Just think of your daughter, well born and
rocked in the lap of luxury, coming, one of
these days, to sewing or keeping boarders
for a livelihood. Yet thousands of girls,
upon whose girlhood fortune lavished her
gifts, have come to that. It seems to us
that a very rich man who has daughters
should provide for them with visions of the
almshouse continually floating before his
eyes. No amount of pecuniary endowment
will be a sure defence against the demons of
pauperism. The fires may burn it up, the
waves may engulf it, prodigal scoundrels of
husbands may waste it, rascally trustees and
executors may pillage it. These and a
thousand kindred contingencies considered,
besides the proverbial helplessness of wo-
man, are almost enough to make a thought-
ful and cautious man pray that daughters
may not be born unto him.
	So, then, we say, let the education of our
girls provide for the possible problems of
self-help in the noblest possible way. The
daughters of millionairs and mechanics alike
should be made distinctly to understand
that all the love romances lie, and that there
is no such thing as making a compact with
fortune to avert the necessity of honest toil.
Nay, more, we would have the girls taught
that labor, especially brain labor, for the
benefit of the world, is too noble to be un-
dertaken for mere mercenary ends, albeit
the world must and will pay for it.
	Our American girls need a great deal of
discipline in this respect, and their fathers
and mothers need to have a great many of
their foolish notions of propriety about toil,
and the wicked caste idea it encourages,
killed as the rank social weed it is. You
will hardly find a girl who will teach
school, or a parent who will allow it, except
under the compulsion of a scanty purse.
What a shame to our Christianity is this!
A fine lady, rustling in her silks, boasts that
she has had all masters in literature and art,
has seen all the galleries of Europe, speaks
three languages, can draw from nature, and
we know not what else; and yet she would
not soil her respectibility by teaching a child
of ignorance the alphabet or hammering the
multiplication table into a class of little
know-nothings in calico! Sure enough, the
millennium has not come yet.—Balance.


﻿A LITTLE girl, not far from Schenectady,
after noticing for some time the glittering
gold-filling in her aunt’s front teeth, ex-
claimed: “Aunt, I wish I had copper-toed
teeth like yours.”
	A PAPER recently alluded to a man as a
“battle-scared veteran.” The compositor
was so agitated when the editor made him
correct it, that he changed it to “battle-
scarred” veteran. And still the veteran in
question was not satisfied.
	THERE have been several instances lately
out West of girls who have run away to join
the circus. What a joy it must be to a
gentle maiden to array herself in gauze and
spangles, and dash through paper covered
hoops, and associate with teamsters and
rowdyish circus men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			       —
	A New Zealand woman is accused of hav-
ing poisoned, during her life, three hus-
bands, fifteen children and a lodger......Two
freight trains collided near Newark, N. J.,
on the 15th of October, wrecking several cars
and killing a brakeman......Mark Twain has
been stopping in London with Tom Hood......
A San Francisco correspondent doesn’t think
things will alter much till we have another
flood and commence a new world on a new
principle......The Sunday liquor law is to be
enforced hereafter in Chicago......The Ger-
man Government advises its manufacturers
and exporters to send cloth of the same
quality and at the same prices as that fur-
nishedby England and France, to Japan....The
"turf" lovers of San Francisco are disap-
pointed at the slow time made by “Gold-
smith Maid” and “Occident”......The House
committee of Congress on appropriations is
to meet in Washington in November, to ar-
range the appropriation bills for the next
session of Congress......Five thousand labor-
ers on the steamship docks of Liverpool are
on a strike......An English untrained year-
ling colt sold in London lately for $10,000....
Ice sells for 12 1/2 cents a pound in Texas......
The French navy includes 50 iron-clads......
A national dog show is being organized in
Boston......Kansas City has increased to the
extent of 1,240 houses in two years......
China and Japan have this year absorbed
$26,000,000 of treasure, in adjusting their
balance of trade......Wedding cards are now
issued with the notice, “No plated ware,”
printed in the corner......A Brooklyn justice
recently dismissed the case before him and
discharged all the prisoners, because he was
too drunk to proceed with the business be-
fore the Court......Ex-Secretary Seward’s
estate, bequeathed by will to his sons and a
daughter, is valued at $200,000......“Gold-
smith Maid” trotted a mile in 2:16 3/4, the
best time on record for one mile. Mr. Bon-
ner claims that his horse “Dexter” has
beaten this time in a private trial......Mr. C.
D. Hess, the well-known theatrical manager,
has abandoned the profession and purchased
a vinegar factory in Chicago......All the can-
didates recommended by the combined
Liberal committees in Rome have been
elected......A man at Cannelton, Indiana,
has been granted a divorce from his wife
because she wasn’t as plump as she made
herself appear. Sad news!......Seventeen
Apaches, at Squaw Peak, Arizona, who,
with others, left their Reservation, were
recently killed......An assault on the
colored cadet at the Naval Academy was
followed by a summary expulsion of all
concerned therein......Harvard College has
decided not to admit ladies......Aberdeen,
Scotland, has been flooded by a terrible rain
storm......Co-operative kitchens are being
established by “Alimentary clubs,” in Paris,
on account of the high price of provisions......
Mrs. Dr. Carl Formes joins the army of
women lecturers this season......An insane
man, who was formerly an expert telegraph
operator, escaped from confinement, and his
keepers failed to discover his place of resort
until another operator identified the missing
maniac by his touch on the telegraph key
in a distant city......At a recent public ex-
ecution in Kentucky, no allowance having
been made for the age and debilitated con-
dition of the prisoner, when the drop was
sprung, the head was left suspended in the
rope while the bleeding trunk dropped to
the ground......At Susanville, Lassen Co.,
California, small stones have been washed
out which are pronounced by experts to be
genuine diamonds......Chicago has a petri-
fied baby......During the past Summer,
[new column]
Omineca, British Columbia, has scarcely
had a day without rain......Forty loaves of
bread for $1.00 is the price at Macon, Ga.....
Three thousand millions of dollars, it is
estimated, is the total capital invested in
railroads in the United States......The
Rhine, Marne and Loire have overflowed
their banks......The Deputy Sheriff of New
York lately lost track of Tweed and failed to
find him after an all night’s search......Re-
port says a man in New Albany has fifteen
daughters, but it doesn’t say whether he is
a polygamist or has any sons or not......Bul-
wer Lytton promises the lovers of romance
a now novel.....Macready, the tragedian, is
80......The concluding portion of Tennyson’s
“Arthurian Legends” will shortly be pub-
lished......The Hague Government refuses
shelter to the Jesuits expelled from Prussia
......An ex-Confederate General has joined
the Yale scientific school......The Austrian
Government is said to have prohibited the
sale of the German translation of the life of
James Fisk, Jr......W. W. Corcoran has pre-
sented the city of Washington with Powers’
“Greek Slave”......An Indian outbreak is ap-
prehended in Idaho......Bismarck prohibits
Catholic processions in the Rhenish prov-
inces.


﻿FOR PALESTINE.
				    —
	On the morning of the 26th ult. Sister Eliza
R. Snow, President of all the Female Relief
Societies, left this city by the early train, on
her way to Palestine, or the Holy Land. Her
brother, President Lorenzo Snow, of Brigham
City, Elder George Dunford and Bishop Jacob
Weiler, of this city, and Elder Anson Call, of
Bountiful, Davis County, formed the party
with which she traveled east, they all designing
to unite with President George A. Smith before
he leaves for Europe. Bishop Thomas Taylor
of this city, and daughter, left a few days be-
fore those who started on the 26th, and Elders
John Taylor and Paul A. Schettler still expect
to go. The entire party, when united, will
number some twelve or thirteen persons, and
may be absent for nearly a year. They will
bear with them the earnest prayers and best
wishes of the thousands of Latter-day Saints
in these valleys, for pleasant voyaging while
absent, and their safe return.
	We hope to be able to present the readers
of the Exponent with communications from
Sister Snow, as she can find time to write in-
cidents of the journey; and we need scarcely
say how deeply interesting such letters will
be, however brief.


﻿FALSE LOGIC.
			 	——
	On the 18th ult. a woman in this city took
poison and died. Her domestic life had been
unhappy, and from the indifference manifested
by her husband under the terrible circum-
stances, according to the evidence given at the
inquest, there is reason to believe that he
viewed the self-inflicted destruction of his wife
as more of a relief than a calamity. How far


h e was responsible for the fearful act, by his
treatment of his wife, will probably never be
known in time; but the unhappy woman fled
from a life of misery to a sudden and self-pro-
cured death. Her husband was not a polyga-
mist, nor were either of them “Mormons;” facts
which there seems little need for our stating,
for had either been different the tragic incident
would have been heralded to the world as a
natural result of “Mormon polygamy.” Sup-
pose this family to have been Methodists,
or Roman Catholics: did their domestic in-
felicity destroy any truth which either of
these religious systems possess? Did it
prove either to be a false faith? And is
their unhappiness and the suicide resulting
from it, any argument against marriage, or any
reason why people should not marry but re-
main single?
	Suicides are so common in Christian countries
that they form a prominent item in social and
criminal statistics. What would be thought of
the person who would reason, because married
persons lived unhappy and one or other of a
couple sought this terrible means of breaking
the marriage tie, that therefore marriage was a
curse to the human family? Yet reasoning of
this absurd kind is freely used relative to “Mor-
monism,” and the system of marriage which is
held sacred by the Latter-day Saints. Men and
women have their irritable moments, their
hours following rash words hastily spoken,
when regret, pain, and even anger, hold sway.
This is the result of their inability to exercise
perfect control over themselves; one of the evi-
dences that humanity is imperfect. Yet who
shall say that any ordained condition of society
is responsible for this? It only proves, as the
poet has beautifully expressed it, that “The
trail of the serpent is over us all.”
	The case which we have referred to in this
city furnishes no text, only that man can be
unkind and brutal, and woman, maddened, can
do desperate things. And had the pair been
professedly “Mormons” this would have been
the only text derivable from it. "While the
conclusion would have been certain that neither
lived according to the Gospel of the Son of
God. But one thing must be noted in connec-
tion with it. The very silence of those papers
and parties that would have seized the circum-
stance most eagerly as a powerful argument
against polygamy, had the persons been “Mor-
mons,” is an acknowledgement of the superi-
ority of “Mormon” principles, by admitting
that it would have been much more noteworthy
had it occurred in a polygamist family. While
the truth remains the same, that neither mon-
ogamy nor polygamy is free from misery where
ungoverned passion rules; while they who are
governed by correct principle, animated by
pure desires, and understand aright the relation-
ship which the sexes bear to each other and man-
kind to the Creator, will live in love, peace
and happiness, though the famly circle should
embrace one husband and fifty wives.


ENJOYMENT FOR THE YOUNG.

	One of the most pleasant and interesting 
sights we have witnessed in a long time was the
Sunday School excursion from the north part
of Utah County, to this city, on Monday, the
21st ult. The Sunday Schools of Lehi, Ameri-
can Fork, Pleasant Grove and Alpine, to the
number of over thirteen hundred, accompanied
by their Superintendents and Teachers, and by
Bishop Harrington, of American Fork, Bishop
Brown, of Pleasant Grove, and Bishop Mc-
Cullough, of Alpine, and having along the
brass bands of Lehi and American Fork,reached
this city about noon. They visited the New
Tabernacle, heard the grand organ play, looked


through the building; and then marched to the
Theatre where they enjoyed an afternoon per-
formance. At about half past four o’clock in
the afternoon they left by the cars for Lehi, a
happy-looking, satisfied, intelligent company,
having evidently much enjoyed the excur-
sion.
	This thing of providing pleasure for a large
number, mainly of young and growing persons,
is worthy of all commendation. Youth seeks
amusement as naturally as the flowers seek
sunshine, and if denied it or deprived of it, will
droop and wither as a tender plant would be-
fore a keen frosty blast. But the amusement
should be carefully planned and arranged by
more mature minds, that it may be at once a
means of instruction and enjoyment; a medium
by which intelligence can be increased and the
desire for amusement be gratified. Because
this Sunday School excursion met these objects,
feasted the young eyes and gladdened the young
hearts, while giving them a more extended idea
of what is to be seen in places away from home,
we viewed it with so much favor; and trust the
mothers of the future hope of Israel will lend
every aid in their power to the repetition of such
seasons of enjoyment and pleasure for the
growing “olive branches.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PREPAYING NEWSPAPER POSTAGE.
			     —
Complaint has been made that subscribers to
the EXPONENT in Ogden have been required
to pay three months’ postage when commenc-
ing to receive their papers about a month be-
fore the postal quarter expired; and another
three months’ postage at the beginning of the
next quarter; thus making the payment of six
months’ postage for four months. We have
examined into the law on the subject, and find
that the postmaster is required to demand three
months’ postage in advance; but a subsequent
ruling on the same law, by the postal authori-
ties, decides that a person may pay for a fraction
of the quarter with the full quarter; or, in other
words, a subscriber to the EXPONENT who com-
mences to receive it a month before the postal
quarter terminates, can pay the postage in ad-
vance for four months, being the one month
and the ensuing quarter, while payment for the
one month alone could not be taken at the post
office. It may be that the postmaster at Ogden
is not aware of this ruling, but if he searches
the “Postal Record" he will find it, and all
postmasters are required to be governed by
it.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
					   —
	THE SAD occurrence of the drowning of the
little son of Mr. L. P. Borg, in the 3rd Ward of
this city, on the 21st ult., should be another
forcible warning against carelessness, and neg-
ligence in leaving wells or other places with
the possibilities of accidents to children.
	ON FRIDAY, the 18th ult., Mrs. Bower, a
milliner of this city, committed suicide by tak-
ing laudanum, the terrible act being prompted,
it is said, by domestic unhappiness. The very
worst way to meet an existing evil, which may
be a cause of sorrow, is to rush unbidden into
eternity.
	ANY ONE who visited the Matinee on the af-
ternoon of the 21st ult., when the excursionists
from Utah county were present, could not fail
of being impressed with a sense of what virtue
and temperance can and do produce. It was a
fair representation of a little portion of the
growing strength of Israel.
	PROFESSOR DUE'S brilliant display of fire
works, given on the evening of the 24th ult., on
the Museum grounds, was a source of general


satisfaction and gratification to every one who
witnessed it. The music was good, and the
splendor of the different colored, spangling,
sporting flames, as they darted heavenward, or
whirled in rapid evolutions, was delightfully
entertaining.
	THE EFFORTS which are being made by the
Superintendents and Teachers of Sabbath and
day schools to enhance the interest of the
young of our Territory in obtaining useful
knowledge, in order that they may themselves
become useful in society, is praiseworthy and
should be continued and increased as rapidly as
wisdom and opportunities will admit; and be
aided by parents and all who are interested in
the welfare and cultivation of the growing
generation.	
	ON WEDNESDAY afternoon, 23rd ult., as Seth
Loveland, son of Colonel Chester Loveland, of
Brigham City, was returning home from Cor-
inne in a wagon, with two young ladies, one of
the ladies, who was driving the team, dropped the
reins, which Mr. Loveland attempted to regain
by reaching over the front of the wagon. He
fell, and the wheels passed over his body in-
flicting injuries so severe that he died the next
morning. The sad event has called forth many
sincere expressions of sympathy for the family,
and of regret that a fine young man should be
thus suddenly and terribly deprived of life.
	ANOTHER RAILROAD has been commenced in
Utah. The Utah Central has been a great suc-
cess, fully verifying the expectations of its
projector, President B. Young. The Utah
Southern and Utah Northern are both making
progress towards bringing the remote parts of
the Territory into railroad communication. The
American Fork line, as a feeder to the Utah
Southern, is now in operation up the canyon
nearly to Deer Creek, with its terminus at
Lehi; and a week ago ground was broken for
another branch road from the Utah Southern
to Bingham Canyon, connecting with the main
line at Sandy Station. No portion of the West
is making greater strides in desirable progress
than Utah; and yet,where would all the wonder-
ful development of the great West have been,
had it not been for the handful of Pioneers who,
a quarter of a century ago, traveled in faith,
and forced their way to the successful coloniza-
tion of these valleys?


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
			    ——
	BIG COTTONWOOD, Oct. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I highly appreciate your excellent paper,
which must contribute greatly to the inter-
ests of our sex here, as through it we have
the privilege of communicating our views
and aspirations and strengthening each
other in our most holy faith.
	I have been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization here. I have been
for a long time unable to meet with the
Society, but my heart is with the Sisters
and I love them with that tender affection
which I bore for my own mother and sisters
according to the flesh. I left houses and
lands, father, mother, sisters and brothers
for the Gospel’s sake, and expect here to re-
ceive the reward promised by the Savior to
those who forsake all else for the purpose of
serving Him. I desire to be useful in His
Kingdom, all that I am and have are de-
voted to the blilding up thereof. The sub-
ject of co-operation is one of the deepest in-
terst to us. We have learned already that
union is strength, and as the “downtrodden
women of Utah” have access to every hon-
orable avocation for the purpose of enrich-
ing and enobling themselves, I see no reason
why co-operation should not be introduced
[new column]
and carried on very extensively, among
them. By means of co-operation in our
Societies we are enabled to assist in gather-
ing the poor, and sustaining them in our
midst until they can find ways of sustainiug
themselves. But great improvements can
be made by us if we are willing to be taught
and will be obedient to the requirements of
Heaven. There are many children among
us that are learning mischef for want of
proper employment. Might not schools of
a co-operative nature be instituted in con-
nection with establishments for different 
kinds of labor, silk culture, the manufactur-
ing of silk goods, and other productions, in
which children could be taught, even at a
very early age, to be useful, and still have
their regular hours for study and also for re-
creation? If you fill a measure full of wheat
of a choice kind, there is no room for seeds
of obnoxious weeds therein; and likewise,
if we see that the minds of our children are
stored with precious grains, there will be no
place in them for erroneous doctrins to
enter. I know a sister who has about
twenty acres of land which is enclosed and
as productive as any land in the Territory,
which she would gladly put into any co-
operative company of the kind, to do good;
and another who is a silk dyer, and who is
waiting for an opportunity to set up her
business. These sisters have the spirit of
co-operation. Many such, by waiting, might
accomplish a great deal of good. Father is
rich. The earth is His, the cattle upon a
thousand hills, the gold and the silver are
all His; and He would let us use His means
for the building up of His Kingdom, if we
would trust him and exercise and exhibit
good judgment. I pray for the success of
every wise and laudible undertaking.
				——		  EXCELLETE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT :
	Why does not some one take it in hand to
have lawful marriage proven a crime and
prohibited? I should think that some of our
loving, influential, and earnest sympathizers
—particularly women who have to listen
day after day to such heartrending and
astonishing questions as “Will polygamy
ever be a crime in Utah !” might see it. If
the Lord ever commanded Adam and Eve
to multiply and replenish the earth, He
also commanded Abraham to take Hager
and by her raise up a son of whom he would
make a great nation. If the latter instance
may be proven a crime, so also may the for-
mer, for both were commanded by the same
great Lawgiver. Who can doubt that the
Alwise and Merciful God had respect unto
His daughter Hager, her prayers and de-
sires, as well as to Abraham and Sarah and
their supplications? She was one of His
children, as they were, and for her benefit
as well as theirs was the commandment
given, that she might fulfill the designs of
God concerning her, and assist in glorifying
His name. True, the Lord suffered her to
be cast out from her husband’s house, but
He did not forsake her. Neither will he
forsake women now, if they will only trust
Him, and acknowledge His dealings among
the children of men. “Will polygamy ever
be a crime In Utah !” is not half so sound a
question as one I heard asked, not long ago,
by a lady who was tired and fretted in her
domestic relations,and who was sane enough
to ask advice of one who was able to give it,
in a kind, sisterly and reasonable way. The
question was: “How long will we have to be
tried in these things?” And the answer
came pleasant and cheery, from one who
had passed the ordeal and triumphed nobly,
“Until they no longer try us.” I have more
to say on this subject, but will intrude no
further upon your space at present. 	G.


﻿				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS. 
			     —
	DOCTOR Franklin said that every little
fragment of the day should be saved.
	A ST. LOUIS paper tells its readers that
“Louisville mules, after kicking the counten-
ance off their drivers, calmly haul the corpse
to an undertaker’s shop, where it can be at-
tended to.”
	THE EMPEROR of Austria has established
a Jewish theological faculty in the Imperial
University, to be equal in its rights and
privileges to the Roman Catholic and Prot-
estant faculties.
	CHILD-SELLING in Japan is carried on to
such an extent that the Government is try-
ing to suppress it. The purchase money of
a little child is only three dollars, and the
girls of fifteen years of age can be bought
for twenty.
	THE DIFFERENCE in nature was well il-
lustrated the other day at the depot. Two
sisters, met:	“O, my dear sister,” said one,
exhaustedly, as they embraced. “You’ve
been eating onions,” said the other, calmly
and fearlessly.
	A LOVING heart and pleasant countenance 
are commodities which a man should never
fail to take home with him. They will best
season his food and soften his pillow. It
were a great thing for a man that his wife
and children could truly say of him:	“He
never brought a frown or unhappiness across
his threshold.”
	FRET NOT.—“The horse that frets is the
horse that sweats,” is an old saying of
horsemen, and it is just as true of men as
horses. The man that allows himself to
get irritated at every little thing that goes
amiss in his business, or in the ordinary af-
fairs of life, is a man that, as a rule, will
accomplish little and wear out early. He
is a man for whom bile and dyspepsia have
a particular fondness, and for whom chil-
dren have a particular aversion. He is a
man with a perpetual thorn in the flesh,
which pricks and wounds at the slightest
movement; a man for whom life has little
pleasure and the future small hope.
	CHINESE ETTIQUETTE.—The Chinese “carte
de visite” is a curiosity. It consists of a
bright scarlet paper, with the owner’s name
inscribed in large letters—the bigger the
more exquisite. For extra grand occasions
the card is folded ten times, the name is
written on the right hand lower corner,with
a humiliating prefix, like, “your very stupid
brother,” “your unworthy friend who bows
his head and pays his respects,” etc., the
words “your stupid” taking the place of
“yours respectfully.” It is etiquette to re-
turn these cards to the visitors, it being
presumable that the expense is too great for
general distribution.
	A YOUNG woman recently appeared before
the Court at Liege with a demand for a sep-
aration or divorce from her husband, on the
ground that he had hired, without her con-
sent, a suit of apartments which she could
not occupy. She was informed that this
simple disregard of her wishes was not suf-
ficient ground for a divorce. The law de-
manded that she should follow her husband.
“What! the law compels me to follow my
husband?” “Certainly.” “We shall see,
then.” The lady disappeared and at once
attached herself to her husband and followed
him every step that he took for two days.
This was sufficient to attract the attention
of the whole city, for the poor husband could
no more escape her than he could his
shadow. Finally the police interfered, and
she was arrested for causing the gathering
of a crowd on the streets.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first railway in Tunis has been
opened.
	In New York, 77,790 pupils attend the
public schools. 
	There are 285 iron-clad vessels in the
twelve navies of the world.
	There are 573 lighthouses on the coast
of the United States, and 22 light ships.
	Parepa Rosa has received a golden med-
al from the London Philharmonic Society.
	Since the abolition of the gallows in Iowa
there has not been a murder in that State.
	An iron church, costing $160,000, for the
town of Amron, Peru, was shipped from
New York.
	Street cars are said to run to Mount
Zion, Jerusalem, the street lamps being
lighted with gas.
	The citizens of Ohio, it is estimated, have
their lives insured to the aggregate amount
of $130,000,000.
	In Perry city, Georgia, one dollar tax is
abated for every shade tree planted by the
citizens along the sidewalks.
	An English church has been erected at
Cairo, and the Khedive of Egypt has of-
fered a site for the purpose.
	In a stone quarry at Anamoso, Iowa, I
solid block of stone,on being sawed through,
was found to contain a petrified human foot.
	SPEAKING of the climate of the Argen-
tine Republic, Professor Gould says: “A
bowl of water left uncovered in the morning
is dry at night; ink vanishes from the ink-
stand as if by magic; the bodies of dead
animals dry up instead of decomposing, and
neither exercise nor exposure to the sun’s
rays produce perspiration.”
	Shakespeare was married at 18; Dante,
Franklin and Bulwer at 24; Kepler, Mozart
and Walter Scott at 26; Washington, Napo-
leon I. and Byron at 27; Rossini, the first
time at 30 and the second time at 54; Schil-
ler and Weber at 31; Aristophanes at 36;
Wellington at 37; Talma at 39; Luther at
42; Addison at 44; Young at 47; Swift at
49; Buffon at 53, and Goethe at 57.
	A wonderful cave has just been dis-
covered in Kansas, which has a lake of pure,
clear water extending almost from the en-
trance, in a northeast direction, as far as the
sight of the discoverer could reach. He
threw stones as far as possible, and could
hear nothing but the splashing sound that
water gives echoed back to him. The
height of the roof above water is seven of
eight feet.
	West of the Mississippi river the United
States still owns 973,482,593 acres, dis-
tributed as follows: Missouri, Iowa and
Arkansas, 16,000,000; Dakota and Wyom-
ing, 145,295,284; Montana, 86,604,605; Kan-
sas, 43,148,076; Nebraska, 55,223,637; Color-
ado and Idaho, 117,800,000; New Mexico
and Utah, 224,140,000; Nevada and Arizona,
136,000,000; Minnesota, 36,876,170; Indian
Territory, 154,000,
	The total reduction of customs duties un-
der Act of Congress, June 6th, 1872, and on
tea and coffee under the Act of May 1st,
1872, on the principal dutiable articles and
manufactures, in addition to the free list, as
estimated at the Treasury Department,
amounts to $31,172,761 38. Of this sum the
reduction on tea and coffee alone amounts to
$15,893,846 67. In addition to this there is
a total reduction of interest and taxes of
$20,651,000—making a grand total of $51,-
923,761.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		A PLEA FOR THE BOYS.	
	Oh, yes, I know the boys are wild,
that they use bad language and cultivate
bad habits, and, as you say, “make them-
selves a great nuisance;” but, my friend, I
don’t think the boys deserve quite so much
blame as they get. When a little fellow 
goes with his father to church, if he is well
taught, he will listen to what the speaker
says; and especially will he notice every
word which comes from the lips of his own
father. Well, if father testifies that it is
the duty of all who would wear the name of
Saints, to keep the Word of Wisdom and
follow the strict rules of temperance in all
things, and especially to abstain from hot
drinks and intoxicating beverages of all
kinds, if the boy knows nothing to the con-
trary, he is apt to think his father is a
pretty good Saint. But if father goes home
from church and sits down to his dainty cup
of tea, and after dinner lights his pipe or
cigar and lazily puffs its filthy fumes with
the air of perfect contentment which smok-
ers are apt to assume, the young philosopher
will draw sharp comparisons between pre-
cept and practice, and if he make a poor
choice, remember it is no more than his
father did. If some quiet neighborhood is
in an uproar on a fine morning through find-
ing woodracks and wagons cutting gambols
on the tops of fences and barns, and pendant
cats making hideous music, and dogs and
yearlings running wild with kettles tied to
their tails, don’t suppose that “those boys”
invented all the mischief themselves; but
rest assured that some father, uncle or other
“jolly good fellow” has been regaling the
“young imps” with spicy reminiscences of
his boyhood, and this is only the legitimate
fruit of the seed thus sown. If boys waste,
their fine powers of mind in studying how
to evade the drudgery of learning lessons,
and play tricks to puzzle and annoy the
schoolma’am, don’t forget how the old boys
boast of their proficiency in that line. Don’t 
set them down as unmitigated annoyances
unless you wish them to prove your opinion
correct. Don’t always beg them to spare
your nerves when they want a little harm-
less play at home. When I heard a father
complain that “outside influences” was too
strong for him, and it was almost more than
he could do to keep his boys under any re-
straint whatever, I could not help wonder-
ing if “inside influence” were what they
should be. Did his son ever feel at liberty
to bring a comrade home with him for din-
ner, without fear that mother’s brow would
cloud and mother’s lips be dumb while the
youthful guest remained? Or that father,
ignoring the visitor’s presence, would im-
prove the occasion to rebuke him sternly for
some boyish negligence and wound his self-
respect in the presence of his friend? Did
father ever ask his opinion or advice con-
cerning even the smallest of his affairs, to
show that he thought his son a reasonable
being and possessed of at least ordinary un-
derstanding? Did father ever make the
slightest pretense of leaning upon him as
upon his best friend, or treat him more like
a peer than a servant? Parents, I fear we
are too jealous of our authority and exercise
too much control over our boys. Would it
not be better to lay by some of this authority
and show a little more of the friend and
companion? Show a little more interest in
their personal affairs, and cultivate in them
a little more interest in ours? Do not com-
pel them to this or that course because it is
their duty to obey, but paint for them the
results of righteousness in such charming


colors that they cannot fail to choose the
right way. And above all, let our teach-
ings be more by example than by precept.
Let us follow the principles which we teach;
let our actions correspond with our words,
and then the boys cannot fail to believe us.
But so long as we recommend one course
and follow another, we cannot expect their
moral basis to be quite settled. So long as
we deny them any recreation at home, we
need not be surprised if they seek it abroad.
So long as we do not lead them into proper
courses, we cannot wonder that they fall into
improper ones. So long as we are too stern
and austere, we cannot wonder that, in their
disgust, they fly to the opposite extreme.
Admit that they have some rights, as em-
bryo citizens, which you are bound to re-
spect; and then go before to lead them into
straight paths, rather than behind, to drive.
Say very little about “authority,” and
"obedience,” but contrive so that the boys
do just as you desire, while thinking they
are having exactly their own way.
	BEAVER, October, 1872.	L. L.	D.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A CHEERFUL HOME.
	A single word may disquiet an entire
family for a whole day. One surly glance
casts a gloom over the household; while a
smile, like a gleam of sunshine, may light
up the darkest and weariest hours. Like
unexpected flowers which spring up along
our path, full of freshness, fragrance and
beauty, so kind words, and gentle acts,
and sweet dispositions, make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell. No matter
how humble the abode, if it be thus gar-
nished with grace and sweetness, with kind-
ness and smiles, the heart will turn laugh-
ingly toward it from all the tumults of the
world, and home, if it be so homely, will be
the dearest spot beneath the circuit of the
sun.
	And the influence of home perpetuate
themselves. The gentle grace of the mother
lives in her daughters long after her head
is pillowed in the dust of earth; and fatherly
kindness finds its echo in the nobility and
courtesy of some who come to wear his
mantle, and to fill his place; while on the
other hand, from an unhappy, misgoverned
and disordered home, go forth persons who
shall make other homes miserable, and per-
petuate the sourness and sadness, the con-
tentions, and strifes, and railings, which
have made their own early lives so wretch-
ed and disordered.
	Toward the cheerful home the children
gather “as clouds, and as doves to their
windows;” while from the home which is
the abode of discontent, and strife, and
trouble, they fly forth as vultures to rend
their prey.
	The class of men that disturb and disorder
and distress the world are not those born
and matured amid the hallowed influences of
Christian homes; but rather those whose
early life has been a scene of trouble and
vexation, who have started wrong in the
pilgrimage, and whose course is one of dis-
aster to themselves and trouble to those
around them.


﻿				[Written for the Exponent.]
		HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.
				   —
	It is generally admitted that cheerfulness
is essential to health. Many women pine
under gloomy and despondent spirits, and
thus work themselves into maladies and
nervous affections, who might otherwise be
strong, whole-souled and energetic. Under
some circumstances, it almost seems that
this cannot be avoided; yet, by taking a
proper course, it can be overcome. It may


require a severe struggle and many an ex-
traordinary effort, but an average power of
mind and tolerable strength of character,
which can be increased by earnest prayer,
will conquer; and free a person from depres-
sion of spirits and languishing debility of
body, when all the doctors and medicines
that could be procured for the purpose would
utterly fail.
	To tell of the trials and hardships through
which we are passing, and talk over the
grievances we are brought to encounter, is
not the safest remedy or surest cure for such
ailments, but rather incentives to heart dis-
ease and irratibilities of different kinds.
Neither is it wise to sit mopishly down and
brood over discontent and dismal occur-
rences in the way of life, forgetful of the
blessings all around us, which we may pos-
sess if we will only earn and accept
them when they are offered to us. But
when bitter thoughts would force themselves
upon the mind, unthinking or unkind as-
sociates introduce subjects of a disagreeable
nature, the best way to do is to dismiss all
such things in short order, without stopping
to think it impossible to help dwelling upon
them. The very excellent means for do-
ing this are so numerous and varied, and so
much at the disposal of every one, that it is
hardly worth while to mention any of them
here. But the necessity of woman’s em-
ploying these means, understanding them
and taking time, aside from other duties,for
exercising them assiduously, is a subject of
importance to many. With some, just so
much work must be accomplished in a day,
whether they feel at every step as though it
must be the last,or otherwise. While others,
feeling dull and heartsick, often with just
cause, mope around and accomplish nothing,
when with their ambition slightly aroused,
they would be abundantly able to do a large
amount of labor,benefitting themselves there-
by in many ways. Either method for get-
ting along is a mistake. Extremes are un-
warrantable and should be avoided. To
work all the time or not at all is injurious to
health of mind and body. A walk in the
fresh air, a chapter from a good book,a romp
with the babies or a sweet little song, even
if you have to sing it yourself, often in- 
creases health and happiness.			L.


REFLECTIONS.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	I have enjoyed reading your valuable
paper and would prefer to read rather than
to write. But I sometimes have reflections
which prove profitable to myself and may
interest others. I naturally love children
and always enjoy Sabbath Schools, when my
health will admit of my attendance. I left
home in May for a visit to one of the adja-
cent settlements. The change of air seemed
beneficial to my health, and I was invited
to spend the Summer, and when I found I
could make myself useful by instructing
children I gladly accepted the invitation. I
visited home too often to take a class in
Sabbath School, but went, however, as a
visitor; and on one occasion they opened the
School by singing “We are the true born
sons of Zion.” The children sang it well,
which caused my heart to rejoice in the
Spirit of the work, anticipating their future
capabilities if they continue to apply their
hearts unto wisdom, that is to love and fear
God; for we are told that “The fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” Never
before did I feel the full weight of the re-
sponsibilities of a Sabbath School teacher.
The thought arose in my mind, would it be
of any value to be one of the true born child-
ren of Zion if not awake to one’s duty?
Were not the Jews the chosen people of
God? And yet how few acknowledged Jesus
Christ to be the Son of God! Were not the
Nephites blessed when humble and faithful
and filled with the Spirit of the Lord? But
look at the contrast when the cares of the
world engrossed their attention and caused
them to relax their hold of divine intelli-
gence from time to time, until the Lord
withdrew His Spirit and gave it to the
Lamanites, so that Samuel the Lamanite
foretold the coming of the Savior and also
concerning His death. The Book of Mormon
cites us to a parable of a vineyard, the fruit
of which became bitter and unfit for use, so
that it was necessary to hew it down, that
better might be placed in its stead. Is it
well, then, for us to spend our time in look-
ing at the faults of others except that we
may know how to shun evil and cleave unto
that which is good? Better would it
be for us to measure ourselves by the pattern
our Savior left us, that we may know how
near we come to it. This would teach us
humility and save ns from becoming bitter
in our minds, and prove a good example be-
fore our children who are in danger of being
embittered also. For the Apostle says, “If
God spare not the natural branches take
heed least He spare not thee.”
	I noticed also in the lesson, Math. 8th
chap. 11 and 12 verses, that it reads, "And
I say unto you, that many shall come from
the East and the West and sit down with
Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom
of Heaven; but the children of the Kingdom
shall be cast out into outer darkness; there
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
This is a mournful picture to look at; but is
it not profitable to see things as they are,
that we may love our children with the
right kind of love and not indulge them to
their own distruction? In all my acquaint-
ance with children I have never known one
whose attention could not be gained by read-
ing or rehearsing Bible stories; especially
when I felt to enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel
myself; and this we need in teaching the
young at home,as much as any missionary who
is sent abroad to preach the Gospel of Jesus
Christ; and with it we benefit ourselves as
well as those we instruct; and when their
attention is directed to the teachings of the
Savior, they are most easily governed. I
have sometimes said to children, “I am
sorry you did that, you should not do so,”
when they sorrowed as much as I did for
the wrong action, and this seemed to be all
the chastisement necessary.
							M. E. K.


A GOOD word is an easy obligation; not to
speak ill, requires only our silence, which
costs us nothing.	
	YOUNG persons should, above all things,
beware of beginnings, and by no means par-
ley with temptations.
	A WISE man is humble, because he thinks
of what he has yet to learn instead of
what he already knows.
	IT is one thing to wish to have truth on
our side, and another to wish to be on the
side of truth.—Wheately.
	WIT loses its respect with the good when
seen in company with malice; and to smile
at the jest which plants a thorn in another’s
breast is to become a principal in the mis-
chief.
	THERE is nothing more pitiable in the
world than an irresolute man, oscillating be-
tween two feelings, who would willingly
unite the two, and who does not perceive
that nothing can unite them.


NOTHING sets so wide a mark between a
vulgar and noble soul, as the respect and
reverential love of woman. A man who is
always sneering at women is generally a
coarse profligate, or a coarser bigot.
	LORD Bacon says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is and how far it ex-
tendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	CARLYLE, after empting his quiver of
more satirical arrows than any brother es-
sayist, coolly says: “Sarcasm I now see to
be, in general, the language of the devil; for
which reason I have long since as good as
renounced it.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
						DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.

NEW GOODS				
	Suitable for the season, in linseys, flannels, and
everything in the dry goods line; with choice
groceries, boots and shoes; and stoves, the cheapest
in town; which Ladies will do well to inspect at
						TAYLOR & CUTLER'S.
	n. 15

A PRIZE !				
      Should be in every house!
	The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than  any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.
Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
  Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
set possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.
[next column]	
LADIES !
Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands,  etc. 
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents. 

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
								J. E. JOHNSON,
								 St. George, Utah.
[next column]
	 
				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on  leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading. 

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1872.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A wide room—room for improvement.
	Miss Loud is giving loud lectures on
“Woman Suffrage” in Massachusetts.
	A dangerous malady among horses has
spread with dreadful rapidity and melan-
choly results throughout the country.
	The Relief Society in Portland, Oregon,
has erected a “House” for homeless unfortu-
nates; an example worthy of notice and
imitation.
	Another terrible disaster, the burning
of the “Missouri” at sea, is recorded with
fearful pictures of suffering and death. The
accident occurred twenty-five miles from
Abaco, on the 22nd of October.
	It is estimated that about nine-tenths of
the people of Vienna live altogether in cafes
and restaurants. How will children thus
reared ever know the blessings which rests
in the memory of a “Sweet Home!”
	For the first time in the history of
American politics, women voted for Presi-
dent at the late Presidential election, and in
two or three places their votes were received,
while in others they were rejected. The
world moves.
	The next Congress will be more com-
pletely Republican in its character than any
that has met in Washington for some years.
Will it verify the hopes of Woman Suf-
ragists, and give woman suffrage to the
country? Time will tell.
	An effort is being made in France to
take the public schools out of clerical hands,
on account of the atrocious scandals concern-
ing the behavior of certain Fathers. The
marriage of Pere Hyacinthe seems to have
augmented the cause of discussion.
	James C. Crittenden, son of the late A.
P. Crittenden, is reported to have deter-
mined that Mrs. Fair should not remain in
San Francisco, after the result of the trial;
and to have been prevented from shooting
her by Mr. Tyler. He was doubtless,
“insane."
	An appropriation of $50,000 worth of
land has been made, for the establishment
of a Professorship, to be known as the
“Agassiz Professorship of Oriental Lan-
guages and Literature,” and to belong to
the University of California. The gift is
from Senator Tomkins, and is well applied.
	Miss Stride of London, has been striding
through the byways of that great City, in
the noble and highly laudable pursuit of
picking up and careing for, thus bringing
back to light and hope, poor, sorrow-stricken,
castaways, three hundred and seventy-five
of whom she has been the means of having
housed, clothed and fed, nursed and won
back to new, bright life and faith. This,
indeed, is true philanthropy.
	A man and woman in Scotland wishing
to be married and not having the requisite
funds to pay a minister, took each a handful
of meal, knelt down before a basin of water,
put the meal therein, mixing it in token that
they “would not sever till death did them
part,” took oath to this effect on a Bible, and
rising declared themselves man and wife.
A modern and economical method of getting
the matrimonial knot tied.
[new column]
	Mrs. Dr. Mary P. Sawtelle thinks that
every unmarried woman should have one
quarter section of land granted to her. She
has been successful in getting a small appro-
priation from the State Legislature of
Oregon for the encouragement and benefit
of immigrants; and has been moved to
engage in this good work by seeing thou-
sands of women whose protectors and
supporters have fallen in battle, toiling and
suffering in great cities. May her humane
exertions be well rewarded!
	On Saturday evening, 9th inst., at half-
past seven o’clock, a fire broke out in Boston,
which burned for about forty hours with
great violence, destroying over a hundred
million dollars worth of building, besides
the property in them. Coming a year and
a month after the great Chicago fire, which
it appears to have exceeded in the value
destroyed, it forces an inquiry as to the
cause not merely of the fire but of its fearfnl
spreading, setting at defiance all the means
known of for the suppression of conflagra-
tions in large cities.
	A highly interesting work is announced
as soon to be given to the public, bearing
the title of “Travels Around the World,” by
the late Hon. William H. Seward.   Olive
Risely Seward, the adopted daughter of Mr.
Seward, who accompanied him on his
journey, edits the work and gives accounts
of travels, observations and philosophical
reflections in the great Statesman’s own
words in connection with his conversations
with Presidents, crowned heads, East Indian
potentates and the Pope; of the crossing of
nearly all the mountains, oceans and rivers
in the world and the courtesies extended to
him in the countries which he visited.
	On Tuesday the 5th inst., Presidant U.
S. Grant, was re-elected to preside for
another term of four years over the United
States. The position taken by the woman
suffragists in the election campaign, the
declaration contained in the platform of the
Philadelphia Convention, and the subse-
quent action of the Massachusetts Repub-
licans, ought, when combined, to give some
assurance that woman suffrage would become
a portion of the supreme law of the land in
the next two years.  For the Republican
party, in the next Congress, can pass any
measure it pleases, and it can secure the
ratification by the requisite two-thirds of
the State legislatures of any amendment it
may propose to the Constitution.
	We clip the following from the “Cincin-
nati Commercial” of October 29th, and insert
it among Editorial Notes without further
comment: “A letter from Connecticut says:
Old Norwalk, long the Gibraltar Of Republic-
anism in Connecticut, but which was carried
by the Greeley party at the recent town
election, has still further advanced, and to-
day admitted to all the rights of an elector
Mrs. Sarah M. L. Huntington. The lady
appeared before the Board of Selectmen—
Messrs. Joseph P. Hanford, Andrew Selleck,
William H. Bauton and Henry K. Selleck,
Town Clerk, officers by law required to ex-
amine and admit all persons legally entitled
to suffrage, and demanded her rights by
virtue of the Constitution of the United
States. Her argument was clear and logical,
and could only be answered by the plea that
[new column]
in the opinion of most persons the law did
not contemplate women’s voting. Mrs.
Huntington so ably and dexterously knocked
aside this argument that the Board were
forced to the unanimous judgment that she
had proved herself equally entitled with
negroes to vote under the Fifteenth Amend-
ment, and Selectman Selleck administered
to her the customary freedman’s oath,
Her name was placed by the town clerk on
the voting list as a legally registered voter,
and nothing now can prevent her voting at
the coming election, as she is resolutely
determined to do. Thus Norwalk will be
entitled to the distinction of being the first
place in any State of the Union where a
female has been permitted to vote and
advanced to all the rights and privileges of
the American citizen. Two years ago last
April our State election occurred just as the
passage of the Fifteenth Amendment was
promulgated, and our Board admitted
negroes to vote, although they were denied
the privilege in every other town in the
State. Subsequent decisions of our ablest
lawyers confirmed the legality of that action.


﻿SABBATH SCHOOLS.
				—
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	A great deal has been said and done of 
late by the First Presidency and others in 
behalf of Sabbath Schools. If the majority 
of parents would take greater interest in the
matter, and visit the Sabbath Schools
occasionally, it would be encouraging to
both teachers and scholars. Some may
think it onerous to go Sunday after Sunday
as a teacher to a class. But, speaking from
experience, I can say that to go with the
spirit of the Gospel is a delightful pleasure.
I have been a teacher some years, and have
never found it a loss but have been amply
rewarded. For while we thus impart the
blessings of knowledge to others we are
ourselves recipients of like blessings. If we
desire our sons and daughters to fill honor-
able positions in society, we must lay correct
foundations for them in their childhood.
Faith in God should be early and firmly im-
pressed upon the minds of our children,
that it may grow with their growth, and be
to them, in future time, a consolatory guide
to smooth life’s rugged pathway. The people
of the world seem to have lost the gift, so 
that when troubles overtake them they sink
in despair. Not so with the people of God.
Their tribulations serve only to consume
the dross, and elevate and refine the
character.
	The would-be sympathizers who draw
long faces and groan over the condition of
women in Utah, should reserve their 
sympathy for themselves and their associates.
We, as wives and mothers, honored and
blessed, seeking to ameliorate the condition
of all within the reach of their influence,
have no need of it.			   J. S. C.
	SMITHFIELD.


MISS LIVINGSTONE, daughter of the great
African explorer, has received a letter from
her father, who acknowledges having been
found by Stanley. Will the doubts in Stan-
ley-Africanus be silenced at last?


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[FOR the Exponent.
		A MOTHER’S RESIGNATION.

Oh, rare, pale image! wrought in priceless clay;
Of faultless outline, wearing matchless grace;
Whose broad, fair brow where mind held kingly sway,
Well crowned the beauty of the tender face,
Small fingers, clasping flowers pale and sweet—
Fair emblems of the dear one’s brief, bright stay !
All, all, from gold-crowned head to slender feet.
More precious are than pearls, though only clay.

For oh, this empty casket held a soul
Most grand, yet gentle, noble, good and brave;
And that shall live while endless ages roll,
Though this dear clay must moulder in the grave.
The glad, young soul, buoyant, pure and bright,
With all the witching ways to childhood known,
Those clear, deep eyes, truth’s crystal mirrors, light
No more this world, with clouds now overblown.

The world rolls on with all its devious ways,
Its cruel pitfalls, tempests, snares and thorns,
And struggling souls who fix their fainting gaze
Upon the goal, beyond the strife and storms.
Temptations still entrap unwary feet,
And rushing floods engulf, and lions roar,
And treachery stings, still yawns the gulf deceit,
And chasms the bridge that faith can scarce span o’er,

Oh favored son! whose white and tender feet
Were not fore-doomed the flinty paths to tread,
And bleed and blister ’mid the dust and heat,
While thorny chaplet crowned the martyr head;
Thou wert admitted through a pearly door
Where dewy flowers instead of serpents twine;
Temptation lurks in wait for thee no more,
For now, beloved one, thou art God’s—and mine.

Then go, my saint, and for thy mother pray,
Whose torn and bleeding heart beats faintly on,
And aches so yearningly thy head to lay
Upon her breast, thy heart against her own—
For flesh is weak; but mother-love is strong
And deep laid as the everlasting hills;
I’d not recall thee, lest I’d do thee wrong
To wish thee subject to life’s fearful ills.

While here, I longed to see thee conquer wrong
And champion virtue, strong in honor’s might;
But oh! how many a dear and gifted son
Has failed to win the battle all must fight
Thou might’s’ have won the victor’s deathless crown
And gained thy God’s serene, approving smile.
But, fearful thought! thou might’st have faltered
	down
The depths of sin, ensnared by cunning guile.

I fear not worldy pride may win thee now,
Nor guile betray, nor flames of guilt devour;
No passions vile e’er bend thy sinless brow,
Nor deadly foes assail thee every hour.
God’s will is wiser than our frail desires,
His mercy tenderer than our purest love;
And I can yield to this since He requires, 
And name thee now, “My waiting saint above.”
									Lu Dalton.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					—
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO., 
						Nov. 8th, 1872. 

Editor Exponent:-
	We held our Monthly meeting on the 4th
inst., of which I send you a very brief
synopsis: Meeting was opened by singing
"O God the spring of all my joys:" prayer
offered by Counselor Mrs. Mary Ainscough:
minutes of previous meeting were read and 
accepted. President E. T. Morehead then 
addressed the meeting, encouraging the
sisters to be zealous in good works. Spoke
at some length upon Sabbath schools, and
the great blessings accruing therefrom to the
rising generation. felt deeply interested in
that laudable work, exhorted mothers to
have their children in attendance at proper
time, made reference to what the Hyrum
F. R. Society had done in behalf of the
Sabbath School in that settlement, which
was highly commendable. Counselor Mary
Ainscough spoke upon the same subject;
and upon the training of our children, 
urging the necessity of setting an example
before them worthy of imitation, etc. Mrs. 
J. Grant spoke on the principle of the 
Gospel and the blessing received in yielding
obedience thereto. 
	Some articles were read from the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT which we prize very
highly. A vote was taken that we drop the 
[new column]
word Female from the name of the Society
as suggested by Sister E. R. Snow, which
was unanimous. Monthly meeting  adjourned
till the first Monday in December.
	Benediction by Mrs. N. A. Noble.
		Mrs. Jane S. Coleman, Secretary.
				_____
			Farmington, Oct. 25th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In Compliance with the request from
Sister Snow, to forward the proceedings of
our first meeting after seeing her notice, I
send the following. At our last meeting we
all felt to coincide with Sister Snow, and
the vote was unanimous to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society.
	We had a very good and interesting
meeting, the subject under consideration
being fashion and dress, to impress upon
the mothers the necessity of trying to cure
that spirit of fashion which exists among
the young daughters of Zion, at the present
time.
	I am a reader of the Exponent, anx-
iously watch for its coming, and am glad to
see it improving.
			S. J. Holmes, President.
			   _____
	From Mrs. Emily L. Hepworth, Secretary
of the F. R. Society of Oxford, Cache County,
we receive a lengthy report of a meeting held
at that place on the 22nd of October. Mrs.
M. A. Boice, who has been the President of
the Society for three years—since its organi-
zation—on account of her age and her many
responsibilities aside from those entailed
through her position in the Society, in
accordance with the advice of her husband,
presented her resignation to the sisters. A
very humble, pleasant spirit characterized
her resignation, and she blessed the sisters,
desiring to continue one with them and to
do all in her power to assist in sustaining and
strengthening the Latter-day-work. Kindly
feelings were expressed and thanks offered
to Sister Boice, for the good she had done in
the Society. Her resignation was accepted,
and on motion of Bishop George Lake, Mrs.
Sarah Cordon was chosen and sustained, by
a unanimous vote, to fill the vacancy thus
made. Sister Boice expressed warm wishes
for the success of the EXPONENT. 
				_____
	Reports of two meetings held in Ogden,
one on the 17th, the other on the 22nd of
Oct. The first was the regular semi-monthly
meeting of the Relief Society. Called to
order by President Mrs. J. S. Richards;
prayer by Mrs. Martha Bingham. The
minutes of the two preceding meetings
were read by the Secretary and acccepted. 
Sister Richards made remarks. She was
pleased with the carpet which had been
made by the Society, it had received much
praise both here and at Salt Lake City: She
had enjoyed herself much at Conference, had
visited and been instructed by Sister Snow. 
The motion was made and seconded that we 
leave off the prefixture of Female from the
name of the Society. Carried unanimously. 
An article concerning the name, was read
by sister H. C. Brown from the EXPONENT. 
Remarks were made by Martha Bingham,
Sarah Herrick and A. M. Frodsham. An
especial meeting was appointed for the fol-
lowing Tuesday, at, which, Sister E. R. 
Snow, her example as a faithful and energetic
Saint and her approaching jonrney to Jeru-
salem were to be topics for consideration.
Secretary A. M. Frodsham requested the
sisters to subscribe for the EXPONENT, and
meeting was dismissed by Sister Richards. 
							Oct. 22. 
	The sisters met according to adjournment, 
sister J. Richards presiding. Several sisters
[new column]
from Marriott and Lynn settlements were
present. Prayer offered by Sister Bicking-
ton. Singing “We thank thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Sisters Bickington, Baird and
Tracy addressed the meeting. President J.
S. Richards spoke of the faithfulness and
untiring diligence of Sister Snow. Considered
her pattern for us all. She was pleased with
the interest and anxiety manifested by the
sisters to do good. Sister Mitchell from S.
L. City said she appreciated Sister Snow,
had often had the privilege of listening to
her wise counsel and been thereby. blessed
and edified. Further remarks were made
by J. S. Richards and Counselor H. C.
Brown. Sincere feelings of love and respect
for Sister Snow, and blessings on her, were
warmly and generally expressed. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Prayer by A. M.
Frodsham.
			____
		WILLARD, Nov. 3, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.—
	Our Society was organized the 25th of
April 1868, and since that time has been the
means of doing much good, in feeding the
hungry, clothing the poor, and administer-
ing to the sick. Our President, Sister Mary
Ann Hubbard, is a woman full of faith and
good works, and is ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Hellen C. Wood and Mary
Harding. The sisters are united and feel
well, always willing to assist in anything
that is required of them. At a Sewing
Meeting, held on Thursday, Oct. 31st, the
motion was carried to drop the word Female
from the name of the Relief Society. I
pray that the Lord will bless the endeavors
of all in their desire to do good.
			Hannah Cook, Secretary.
				____
	A very brief report from Mrs. Sarah H.
Crosbey, Hebron, Washington Co., shows
that a re-organization of the Relief Society
in that settlement, took place on the 19th
ult., that a working meeting was held on the
2nd inst., and that the Society is a small but
prosperous one.


﻿A Wisconsin man lent his cook a $150
watch to know when to get his dinner, and
hasn’t seen the cook or time-piece since.
	The Washington clergymen are protest-
ing against Sunday funerals, and doctors are
requested to regulate demises accordingly.
	While the population of Russia has in-
creased five fold in the last century and a
half, that of the United States has increased
forty fold.
	A California paper says that during a
recent earthquake in that State a man made
an involuntary exchange of his farm for a
fish pond.
	There are four lady students in Middle-
town College, members of the freshman
class. Three of them had previously been
repulsed at Amherst.
	Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the well known
reader, is thought by some connoisseurs
quite the best living interpreter of charac-
ters in which the elements of tenderness,
pity and woe are conspicuous. She was born
in India, in 1844. Her father died when
she was quite young; then her mother
returned to England, and afterward went to
Germany to educate her two precious
daughters. She first appeared as an ama-
teur actor in a private dramatic entertain-
ment, when only eleven years old, and filled
all who saw her performance with wonder at
her talent and promise. She was trained for
the stage, made her debut in London, in
1867, and gave her first reading in this
country at Newport, in 1868. Since her first
appearance before the public, she has filled
a leading place in the histrionic profession.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	THE SIMPLE truth is, that, unless women
have a routine of duty that diverts their
thoughts from themselves, and gives them
something to think of besides dress and the
exhibition of it, they degenerate. The only
cure for this that we know of, is universal
housekeeping. There is no man who can
afford to pay a fair price for board, who can-
not afford to keep house; and housekeeping,
though it be ever so humble, is the most
natural, and the healthiest office to which
woman is ever called.
	The devil always finds work for idle hands
to do, whether the hands belong to men or
women; but American men are not apt to
be idle. They are absorbed in work from
early until late, and leave their idle wives,
cooped up in rooms that cost them no care,
to get rid of the lingering time as they can.
Is it kind to do this, or is it cruel? If it is
kind in its motives, it is cruel in its results.
The whole system of boarding-house and
hotel life is vicious. To live in public, to be
on dress parade every day, to be always part
and parcel of a gossiping multitude, to live
aimlessly year after year, with thoughts
concentrated on one’s person and one’s
selfish delights, to be perpetually without
a routine of healthy duty, is to take the
broadest and briefest road to the degrada-
tion of all that is admirable and loveable
in womanhood. It is to make, by the most
natural process, that gay, gaudy, loud, frivo-
lous, pretentious, vain, intriguing, unsatis-
fied, and unhappy creature which the
Englishman knows as the “New York
woman.”—“Scribner’s Monthly.”
	The above is certainly well adapted to the
position of ladies belonging to fashionable
society. Our country girls and farmers’
wives would be likely to say, that Ameri-
can women are no more apt to be idle than
American men; but such ones see and know
but little of the vanity and worthlessness
which constitute the lives of fashionable
women, and which is being over fed and
continually encouraged by fashionable men,
even while they cry out against it.
	IRON RUST may be removed by salt mixed
with a little lemon-juice.
	REMOVE MILDEW dipping in sour but-
termilk, and laying in the sun.
	A LITTLE oil of cloves poured into a bottle
containing gum mucilage prevents it from
souring. 
	A SOLDER for uniting steel to brass, and 
one which adheres perfectly to both and is
not affected by the unequal dilution of the
two metals, is composed of three parts of
tin, thirty-nine and a half parts of copper,
and ten parts of zinc. 
	PEAS A LA BOURGOISE.-Put your peas, 
which should not be old, into a clean stew-
pan with butter, in the proportion of half
a pound to a quart of peas; add the heart
of a good, large lettuce, a bunch of parsely, 
a few small onions, and a pinch of salt; let
them stew together slowly till done; thicken
before serving with a little butter and flour;
add a little white sugar in powder, and
serve. Some cooks thicken with the yolks
of two eggs instead of flour. 
	A NICE way to bake sour apples is to dig
out the cores, place the apples in a deep tin, 
fill the cavities where the cores come out
with sugar, pour a cup of hot water in the
tin and bake in a quick oven; you will have
a healthful and palatable dish. 
	HOUSEHOLD BREAD, for large families.-
Mix fourteen pounds of flour with six
pounds of mealy potatoes, previously well
mashed; add three teaspoonfuls of salt and 
[new column]
make a dough with water; then work
it well with four teaspoonfuls of yeast, and
after three or four hours bake it.
	TRANSPARENT POMADE.—Take sperma-
ceti, two ounces; castor oil, five ounces;
alcohol, three ounces; oil of bergamot, half a
drachm; oil of Portugal, half a drachm. Melt
together the spermaceti and castor oil, pour
in the alcohol by degrees, stop the heat and
add the oils; stir well to incorporate, and
pour into glass jars. Flavor to suit.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
WHERE SOCIAL REFORM MUST ORI-
			GINATE.
			    —
	In the present age of the world we enjoy
countless advantages over all that have gone
before us, in the comforts and conveniences
which the grasping, comprehensive mind of
man, with the blessing of God, continually
brings to light, but with the multiplied
wants, and puny strength of the present
day, each new invention to economize time
and toil seems only just sufficient to enable
man to exist until something more can be done
to lighten his grievous burdens. His com-
plicated and numberless bodily ills drag
him down like an incubus, and chain his
mind to the dust when it should surmount
the clouds. Men of intellect and learning
spend their lives concocting drugs with
which to combat the multiplicity of diseases
which prey upon humanity, and humanity
blindly, recklessly, swallows all, patent pills,
quack nostrums, and, above all, ardent
spirits in the form of bitters and tonics,
which last still further inflame those gross
animal passions which, all admit, are, in
their unchecked career the root of nine-
tenths of these debilities. It is acknow-
ledged that excessive indulgence has robbed
man of his primitive vigor and given rise to
a long train of frightful diseases which will
continue to afflict the race until means can
be used to end them. The sooner this is
done the better, and the trouble must be
met boldly.
	It is useless to cry out against social de-
pravity and deplore its evil work and
never lift a weapon against it. It is
equally useless to fight against remote
conseqlittlees and have the ruling cause
untouched. Why cannot men learn the folly
of battling against effects, while nurturing
aud fostering causes? Why bewail the
work of the destroyer in desolated homes
and the blighted promises of many a fair
young life, and call on the strong arm of
vengeance on the head of the evil doer; and
still purge not the hidden springs of iniquity,
and ignore the fact that those same mourn-
ing households have contributed, and still
contribute their mite, to the deep fountain
of that deadly poison which creeps insidiously
through society, the highest and the lowest,
over on the alert for its prey, here and there
fastening its fangs upon the most promising
in the land, never relaxing its hold until it
has devoured, not the body only, but the
usefulness, the peace, the soul of its victims?
And why be slaves to physic, seeking by its
unaided strength to overcome disease of
body and mind, while moral or rather im-
moral causes are daily originating new
phases of suffering? The source of disease
being sin, it must receive mental and moral
treatment. It is not enough that the vigi-
lant eye of the law is ever watchful to detect,
and its strong right hand ever uplifted
to punish crime; these measures deal only
with effects, cropping here and there a twig
from the great tree of immorality. But its
weapons are too short to reach the great,
strong trunk which is no more disturbed by
[new column]
the clippings than a strong oak by the
pruning knife. No! the strength of social
crime lies far beyond the verge of legal
jurisdiction, and at its safe distance, mocks
its futile endeavors. Then where shall we
look for its antidote, and whence is our
deliverance to come? It is plain that the
fountain of sin must be cleansed before the
stream will run clear. But where shall we
look for this fountain? Social evil does not
derive its strength and perpetuity from those
miserable libels on “the Image of God” who
unblushingly avow their infamy, and are
shunned as lepers by respectable citizens,
for they, poor, miserable, comfortless
wretches—as we know them—create far less
evil in the world than is laid to their charge.
It is where they cannot enter; where peace-
ful, law-abiding citizens dwell, that the
seeds of crime are planted and nourished
until they “can be no longer hidden,” and
then spewed forth to go abroad fulfilling
their dreadful mission. Look to it, you
fathers who “live above the law,” and
piously bewail the depravity of the world,
that you are not secretly giving aid and
sustenance to that very cause by giving full
license to those appetites which cannot be
said to degrade man “to the level of brutes,”
since brutes, without the aid of Reason and
Religion, do strictly observe the laws of
Nature. Oh, you honest citizens! do you
degrade yourselves “below” the brutes by
disregarding Nature’s laws in your own
homes, and seeking only your own sensual
gratification, persistently closing your eyes
to the fact that thus you perpetuate and foster
a low tone of morals, and send abroad into
the world, exaggerated types of your own
depravity, to carry their pestilential presence
and shameful deeds everywhere? Do you
honestly acknowledge to your accusing con-
sciences when your sons give themselves
up to evil excesses that your own ways of
life have been their ruin? Do you ever repent
in secret anguish that you did not exercise
your divine right of sovereignty over your
own inferior passions and lead instead of
following them, exercising them only with
a fixed and holy purpose, as a sower scatters
grain in the spring? This is where social
reform must originate. When you do this,
oh, fathers and mothers, and forsake the use
of stimulants, you shall have the proud
assurance that your sons and daughters will
never be unresisting victims to those detest-
able passions which are the prolific source
Of bodily suffering and mental anguish in
this sin-weltering world. This course will
restore man’s primitive vigor, and class as
entire gain instead of mere necessities, the
wonderful inventions of genius. This will
strike the heart of social evil and give law
no subjects on which to waste its idle
strength, and rob the countless swarms of
quacks of their victims whose own sins
place them helpless in their power. And
fail not to remember, oh, parents! that as
you are responsible for the existence of
deathless beings, so you are responsible for
their dispositions; and that through them,
your secret thoughts are brought to light;
and do not dare ignore your responsibility,
nor use irreverently your fearful, your
wonderful powers.			L. L.	D.


There are two things in this life for
which people are never prepared, and they
are twins.
	A prosperous merchant has for his motto:
“Early to bed, and early to rise; never get
tight and advertise.”
	For the Centennial of American inde-
pendance, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE E. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
						Salt Lake, City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15,1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	The electric Train (George Francis,) ac-
cuses Grant of having been in partnership
with Tweed, Connolly and Sweeney in the ’68
Horatio-Seymour sell-out “fiasco.”......"Lit-
tle Cordelia Howard,” the original Eva in
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” is married and a
mother.......Cologne is the wealthiest city on
the river Rhine......A railroad is being con-
structed in Scotland, by the Duke of Suther-
land, at his own cost......Sacramento has
rescinded its laws against games of chance,
owing to a great influx of rich sporting men,
and gambling increases in popularity in
that city......Provisions are made for the in-
surance of $10,000,000 of stocks, in shares
of $10 each, in the bill appointing commis-
sioners from each State and Territory to
conduct the Centennial celebration of Inde-
pendence Day at Philadelphia in 1870.......
The Persians will not admit a Frank into
their public baths, but openly assert that he
would defile them......Servia is the only
State in Europe where the barbarous
punishment of breaking on the wheel is in-
flicted on criminals.......One of the late
sensations is the alleged discovery of an
island of gold in the Caribbean Sea.......
Pioche is to have a new theatre built.......A
young Polish girl was recently beaten to
death by the Russians, for expressing her
love for her country.......French journals say
Paris has never before been so full of Ameri-
cans as now......Persian ladies are said, to
paint themselves out of all semblance of any-
thing human or divine......The people of
Nevada complain of the extortionate prices
charged by the Railroad companies, for
transportation of freight and passengers......
From twenty to thirty priests marry every
year in the diocese of Paris alone...Miss
Faithful, now lecturing in this country, holds
the position of “printer and publisher in
ordinary” to Queen Victoria......Secretary
Seward was in full possession of conscious-
ness, and realized his situation to the last
moment of his mortal life......America has
fifty new novels this fall......Some of the
grandest Paris avenues are almost filled with
resident American families......Des Moines
bids for the next Iowa State fair.........A
recent marriage between a Russian gentle-
man and an American lady, was commenced
in the Russian church, at Paris, continued
at the Russian legation, .and finished at the
American legation.......“George Sand” is
going to lecture in Holland and Belgium......
The marriage of a priest, or a man who has
ever taken “orders,” is null in France, and
children born of it are considered illegiti-
mate.......Thousands have been rendered
homeless and many lives have been lost, in
Italy, through the damages done by the
overflow of the Po and other rivers......Three
hundred fathers of families, in and about
Bordeaux, France, have taken their children
from the public school and refused to let
them return while the school remains under
ecclesiastic control......In some places in the
provinces of Mantua and Ferrara, Italy, the
water from the inundation of the river Po,
reaches the roofs of the highest buildings....
An old man, 72 years of age, at Crown
Point, Indiana, is supposed to have lain
down from exhaustion while walking
through a hog pasture, a short time since,
and to have been literally eaten up by hogs......
New York contains over a hundred thousand
Scandinavians.......Anna Dickenson will not
grant that Horace Greeley does not approve
of woman suffrage......A steamer and tow-
boat lately collided near the wharf at Pitts-
burg, the former being so badly injured that
she sank soon afterward.......Froude, the
English Historian, considered himself in-
[new column]
sulted by receiving an invitation to a party
where Mayor Hall figured conspicuously, in
England Froude would be called a “muff.”
......Miss Faithful has not been associated with
the general body of Woman Suffragists in
England, but has, it is said, worked by her-
self in her own way......For married women
to retain their maiden name is a Dutch
custom.......The old wooden bridge across
the Delaware river, at Trenton is to be
replaced by an iron one at a cost of $500,000.
......The Licensing Act for closing the drink-
ing saloons of Liverpool at 9 o’clock on Sun-
day night has been enforced, and caused
considerable excitement......Indianapolis and
many of the Eastern cities are building
bridges or tunnels over or under their great
railroad crossings, as a protection to travelers
on foot or drawing teams.......Froude says
there is a capacity for the endurance of suf-
fering beyond example among the Irish
peasantry......TheNew York “Nation" says that
the Attorney General of New York made
arrangements to let notorious criminals
escape prosecution, on their consenting to
pay money towards one of the candidates
in the presidential contest.


﻿PHILOSOPY AND PROPHECY

	When the great Chicago conflagration was
held to be a judgement—one of those which
the prophecies have said should be poured out
upon the nations for their wickedness—the be-
lief so expressed was met with sneers of the
most violent kind, and the idea was denounced
as puritanical and fanatical in the extremest-
degree. In fact so wide-spread is the infidelity
of the present day, that to recognize the hand
of the Almighty in anything is held to be
fanatical and puritanical. The world of Chris-
tians have turned philosophers, and their
philosophy does not recognize God. It finds a
cause for everything without the intervention
of Deity; and, when narrowed down to a point,
popular religion now is a faith that does not in-
clude a belief in the existence of an Omnipotent
power at all.
	Last Saturday night another calamity like
the Chicago one burst upon the City of Boston.
For over forty hours the flames raged beyond
control, sweeping awy building after building
constructed of materials usually held to be fire-
proof. An exchange says:
	The same astounding results of intense heat
witnessed in the Chicago conflagration were
demonstrated in this. Granite buildings per-
ished almost instantaneously, crumbling to
powder as though they had been simply consol-
idated blocks of ashes or sand. Great masses
of stone burst into fragments, as if split by
blasts of nitro-glycerine, and the air seemed
full of deadly missiles, threatening destruction
to any one who attempted to stay the riotous
progress of the destroying flames.
	And of the Chicago fire a gentleman who
witnessed the awful conflagration says that
blazing beams of wood were carried long dis-
tances, as if invisible bands were at work to
so spread the agent of destruction. Forty years
ago the people of New York, Albany and
Boston were warned by the Lord through His
servants that His wrath would be poured out
upon them unless they repented. But who
would expect New York with its wealth, its
power, and its pride, to repent? And who
would look for the intellectual and haughty
Boston to think that it needed repentance? It
may seem harsh and almost inhuman to speak
thus of a terrible calamity while the sympathies
of the nation are turned towards the city that
has suffered so much. But would the surgeon
be humane whose sympathies prevented his
advising cauterization where a rabid dog had
bitten a human being? It will be said, and
justly, that this visitation, like all others of the
same kind, has swept away the last stay in life
of the good as well as of the bad. Probably
as in the Chicago fire the dwellings of the worst
women who live in Boston have not suffered.
But were they the wickedness of that city?
Who made them things of crime and shame?
Who drove them to degradation and ruin?
Let the men who occupy palatial buildings an-
swer.
	Philosophy seizes minute details and hypo-
critically asks explanation; while prophecy
deals with generalities, and warns a people
beforehand. Philosophy calls for an analitical
investigation of the causes which produce such
a calamity; prophecy foretells the evil and
warns a people against it. For years the
Almighty has warned this and other nations,
but His warnings have been laughed at and
disregarded. He has said that after the warn-
ing of His servants He would send earthquakes,
the sea breaking beyond its bounds, the voice
of the tempest, and the power of Jehovah
made manifest in great storms and tribulations
coming upon the earth. All these things are
of daily occurrence.  Weekly the inhabitants
of the earth are startled with accounts of
calamities which frighten and appal; yet
philosophy accounts for them while prophecy
is never considered. And apparently thus it
will be until the great consumation shall have
been effected, and the few having faith in God
shall see and experience the power of His
salvation.


﻿A FIXED AIM.
				—
	PEOPLE who have fixed aims in life, work
more persistently and, with better heart than
those who have nothing to look forward to, and
no distinguishing feature in their daily avoca-
tions. An ordinarily industrious person will
become so engrossed In a pursuit that little
disappointments will be heedlessly rushed by in
the determination to accomplish his or her ob-
ject, where a certain design is in view. The
same organization of humanity, having con-
ceived no bright hopes of a glorious success and
a brilliant future, will be overcome by the
merest  trifles in the way of discouragement,
and often relinquish a point when it has been
almost obtained with scarce an effort, becaus
some little obstacle appears in the way. It i
well to set out early in life, with a fixed pur-
pose. Better to strive for something, even if
disappointed in reaching the mark set up as a
guiding star, at the point first anticipated, than
to be an aimless sluggard, passing through the
world with nothing to strive for, nothing to
hope for, nothing for which to live.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
	PRESENT INDICATIONS are that more benefit
is likely to accrue from the Sabbath Schoois,
taught in the various Wards in this City, under
the new system of holding Sabbath Schools
and meetings, than has been realized heretofore.


As no Sabbath meetings are to be held in the
Tabernacle during the Winter, and the fore-
noon is to be devoted to Sunday Schools in
each Ward, opportunities are offered for a
much larger attendance at these schools.
Superintendents and teachers will seek the as-
sistance of elders who have the faculty of
imparting intelligence, to form and instruct
classes of youths in any or all useful branches
of education, but particularly in the principles
of the Gospel. Sacrament and evening meet-
ings will also be conducted in the meeting
houses of the different Wards.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, under the super-
vision of Mrs. Sarah E. Kimball, is progressing
finely. Books appropriate for students com-
mencing the study of Physiology have been
ordered and received, and may be obtained by
application to Miss Mary E. Cook at the school-
room, the Social Hall.
	AMONG THE recent deaths which have occur-
red in this City, we note that of Sister James
S. Brown as one of the most affecting. Her
example as a true daughter, sister, wife and
mother, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, her
acquaintance testify.
					—
	WE WILLINGLY give place to the following
obituary notice which has been forwarded to us:
	Father Daniel Stanton was a soldier, in the
war of 1812. He has filled many responsible
positions in the Church and for his country
honorably. He leaves a numerous family to
mourn their bereavement. His loss is felt by
the community in which, for some time, he
filled the office of Judge and Justice of the
Peace, until last August. He was born May
28th, 1795, in Onondago, New York. Father
Morley, Daniel Stanton, etc., etc. and their
families were living as one; or in the Apostolic
Order. Joseph Smith’s first Elders said they
were sent there. Father Stanton was the first
to believe and confess it. Parley P. Pratt bap-
tized him. He had lived 77 years, 9 months and
29 days.
	ON FRIDAY, the 9th inst., a company of ladies
and gentlemen, by invitation of President B.
Young, enjoyed a ride to the Promontory and
back again, a distance of 180 miles, behind the
new locomotive which has been built for the
Utah Central Railroad. The weather was fine,
much of the scenery and road, including where,
for some distance, the latter is cut through
solid rock, was new to many of the excursion-
ists; and, altogether, the undertaking to have
a little season of pleasurable entertainment was
a quiet success, as all such excursions are when
properly arranged.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

	Miss E. R. Snow writes from Chicago, under
date Oct. 30, 1872:
	My trip thus far has been very satisfactory.
In crossing the plains, I frequently drew the
contrast between the present and the past, and
could hardly realize the present to be a living
reality. To travel with ease, devoid of fatigue,
in three days, a distance which a few years ago
required more than three months of weariness
and privations to accomplish, is certainly a
very great change. 	*	*	*	I took an
earnest glimpse of the beautiful, stupendous
bridge as we crossed the Missouri river. It is a
piece of workmanship worthy of a critical day-
light observation.
	We left Council Bluffs in the midst of one of
those thunder-storms so common to that local-
ity, beyond the necessity of artificial irrigation.
It was 9 o’clock at night, but what were the
night and the storm to us! Instead of pitching
tents and circling beneath a dripping roof, we
were comfortably seated in a palace car and
traveling at an almost incredible speed. So
much for the blessings of God on the march of
improvement. These night travels cheat us of
many pleasurable scenic views, a tax which
time-saving naturally brings.
	At the Bluffs we took the Rock Island route
to Chicago, and arrived at R. I. City where we
breakfasted, and took a hasty view of the stir-


ring, beautiful place, with the railroad bridge—
one in progress of erection—all curiosities to
one as little acquainted with railroads as my-
self. The scenery from Rock Island to Chicago
is varigated, and as seen while passing, as we
did, at times at the rate of nearly a mile per
minute, is very delightful; one characteristic
worthy of notice, being the freshness of verdure
in comparison to what we had previously
passed.
	We arrived here last evening at 4 o’clock, and
the missionaries to Europe left on the 5 o’clock
train for New York.	*	*	* 	My health
is good, and my heart full of gratitued. Sister
Mercy R. Thompson joins in love to all our
good sisters.	
						ELIZA R. SNOW


[Written for the Exponent.]
		A WORD ON OBEDIENCE.

	Children of the Saints, what are your as-
pirations? Would you like to be great and
honorable and distinguished men and
women? Let me tell you how to become so.
It all depends on your obedience and faith-
fulness. Be obedient to your parents,
honor them and learn to be punctual in
every thing. These are the foundations to
build upon, then it will not be hard for you,
as you grow older, to obey the counsel of God
which is given to man. When you see a
disobedient child you will see an unhappy
one. If a child has a rebellious spirit and
acts contrary to his parents’ wishes, he feels
ashamed to meet those parents, and if he is
made to comply he is angry and sullen and
you will often hear such ones say, “I wish I
was dead for I am never happy,” On the
other hand, you see one who is willing to be
lead by his father or mother, and you find
one who is contented and happy and joyful.
Such ones grow up a joy and comfort to their
parents, an ornament to society, and a bless-
ing to the world. And now, my sisters, if
we have not learned this great lesson, it is
high time, that we began to school our minds
in obedience to the commands our Father
has given us, for our exaltation and happi-
ness. Often when we feel as though
we could not endure what we are called to
pass through, it is partly because of a diso-
bedient spirit and our self-will, and we feel
like the disobedient child, we wish we were
dead, we are so unhappy. When if we will
bring ourselves to feel—“It is the will of
my Father; He has commanded; it is His to
command, mine to obey;” joy will spring up
in our hearts, and we will be cheerful and
happy. This is my experience.
						 A MOTHER.


[For the EXPONENT.
	CO-OPERATIVE AMENDMENTS.
				 —
	How absurd and ridiculous the ideas
advanced by some of our Woman Suffragists
are! For instance, says one "woman’s-
rights”-man, speaking of woman: "She has
been continually anathematized and tor-
mented with the idea that she is the ‘weaker
vessel.’ Her father, brother and husband
have always told her that her mind was
weak and small, and that she could not com-
prehend great things, nor do great works.
Sometimes, her mother and sister are joined
in this wholesale slander of the female mind.
When a little girl she has been paralyzed
with the thought of her inferiority. *  *  * 
How could woman be anything with the
whole world against her?” As though
woman has never been anything! Woman
is to a large extent responsible for this “per-
secution" and “oppression" to which she
has been subjected by men. She has been
too willing to have something to lean on,
some one to look up to, and to do the conse-
quential parts in providing for herself and
her offspring. But has she been nothing


and done nothing for the world? Is it
nothing to have been the-mother of all the
great men and women? I think it is con-
siderable in woman’s favor. And I also
think that it is right for her to improve and
elevate her condition in every legitimate
way, and thus become a nobler and wiser
mother of purer and better beings. In
making these amendments, every sensible
and good man will, I am convinced, assist
and encourage her, and glory in her earnest
and spirited resolutions. There is no true
man but what has the highest appreciation
of her merits or .that ..would not sacrifice
more for her welfare and happiness than he
would for his own.
								INEZ.


﻿For the EXPONENT
	WHY BLAME THE GIRLS?
			  —
	Is it fair to accuse all young ladies with
the follies and nonsense of indulging in the
false pride and vain imaginings which
characterize the great portion of society at
the present day, and still hourly increase?
A short time since, a worthy gentleman
remarked something like the following:—
“If a young man would like to marry a girl,
he dare not tell her of it; for when a girl
gets married now-a-days, she wants a piano,
a Brussels carpet and furniture to match, a
horse and buggy, thinks she must dress in
the nicest style, and have two hired girls to
wait on her." These suggestions are closely
applicable to a large majority of our girls, it
is true, but there are exceptions; and what
is more, the other side of the picture was
not drawn. Yet no one who is at all
acquainted with the present condition of
society, could justly condemn the following
portrait as being incorrect, so far as it ex-
tends:  If a young lady is asked to marry,
she dare not say “yes,” for a young man
now-a-days can scarcely be met in any-
position in society but he has a cigar in his
mouth, his face is flushed with wine, and to
judge from his manner of deportment, he
considers himself superior in every sense of
the word to most people, and would not
marry a girl whom he thought inferior in
the least respect to any one but himself.
What reasonable girl feels herself capable of
filling the position of wife satisfactorily to
such a being, even if she did not shrink
from his habits of intemperance? Let the
young men reform and see if the girls will
not be on hand to assist them.
							A GIRL.


It doesn’t matter how watchful and vigi-
lant a girl is; if a rude fellow kisses her, it
is ten to one he will do it right under her
nose.
	To accept the statements of the partisan
press on both sides, the two very worst men
in the United States are the candidates for
the Presidency. Such is partisan politics.
	Some people are as careful of their troubles
as mothers are of their babes; they cuddle
them, and hug them, and cry over them,
and fly into a passion with you if you go
to take them away from them; they want
you to fret with them, to help them to be-	
lieve that they have been worse treated
than anybody else. If they could, they
would have a picture of their grief in a
gold frame hung over the mantle-shelf for 
everybody to look at. And their grief makes
them ordinarily selfish—they think more of
their little grief in the basket and in the
cradle than they do of all the world besides
and they say you are hard-hearted if you
“dont fret.” “Ah! you don’t understand
me—you can’t enter into my trial!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TO STRANGER FRIENDS. 
			    —
Stranger Sisters, kindly caring,
For a lone one in distress,
Neither time nor int’rest sparing
that would serve to soothe and bless;
May the light of Heaven never
Cease across your path to shine;
But the grace of God, forever,
Yield you strength and power divine.

Have ye wand’ring sons or brothers?
May they meet with friends as true,
Finding at the hands of others
That which ours receive from you. 
While this prayer is but a token
Relevant, deep thanks accord,
Other thoughts must rest unspoken
With the future and the Lord.
							L. L,


THE SEX.
			      —
	The “World” speaks of that “maudlin and
murderous hag, Mrs. Fair.”
	Rosa Bonheur’s last painting is a tiger
fighting a hyena. It is said to be her master-
piece.
	At Mankato, Minn. a woman was accused
of throwing a baby into the river. The
river was raked by an incensed community
and a dead cat brought to light.
	A woman in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, has
sent the saloon keepers there, a bill of $200,
being the amount legally due her for a
pounding inflicted by her husband.
	An exchange says that Miss Sabone
Kornell, of Little Camplon, R. I., is en route
to Omaha on foot. She had arrived at Terre
Haute, Ind., at last accounts, and was then
healthy and hopeful.
	A Boston lady, but eighteen years old,
named Avonia Bonney, made a highly suc-
cessful debut at the Balbo Theatre, Turin,
a few weeks ago. She appeared in a new
opera by Joseph Boszelli.
	The New York “Tribune” is very ungal-
lant and alludes exultingly to the discomfiture
of mothers and daughters who have been
“angling” this Summer at the various water-
ing-places with such poor success. Their
failure is accounted for by the somewhat
worn theory that the poor but honest young
men are frightened away by the display of
extravagance on the part of the frivolous
young ladies.
	A little girl in a New York Orphan
Asylum quarreled with another girl and
scratched her face. For this she was
punished and required to learn and repeat a
verse from the Bible, being allowed her own
selection. She chose the first verse of Psalm
44, which runs as follows: “Blessed be the
Lord my strength which teacheth my hands
to war.and my fingers to fight.
	Molly Strong, of Newton, Michigan,
dug a well forty feet deep last summer, and
received one hundred and thirty dollars
from her father therefor. Then a lot of fel-
lows went fooling around after Molly, and
wanted to marry her; but she pensively
kicked them outdoors, with the remark
that she “wasn’t going to take fellers who
wanted her just because they found out she
could work like a horse.”
	The Princess Salm-Salm has entered a
Catholic convent at Innspruck in the Tyrol.
The Princess is an American by birth, a
Miss Agnes Leclerq, of Baltimore, and her
romantic adventures in Mexico, six years
ago, filled the newspapers of the time. She
saved her husband’s life in Mexico, and got
him restored to his military rank in Ger-
many. He was killed at Gravelotte, at the
head of his regiment, She was at one time
a circus rider, and her career altogether has
been filled with adventure.


HUMOR.

	One thing that can always be found—
fault.
	Something you can always borrow—
trouble.
	Vested interests—Money in the waist-
coat pocket.
	What is taken from you before you get
it? Your photograph.
	Who pays the highest price for a home?
The woman who marries for one.
	If you court a young woman, and you are
won and she is won, you will both be one.
	Why is the alphabet like cutting the first
teeth?—because it is taught yer (torture)
when young.
	“You seem to walk more erect than usual,
my friend.” “Yes, I have been straightened
by circumstances.”
	The Freeport "Journal" says: Pairs are
abundant in this place and front gates are
loaded down with them on fine evenings.
	The man whose hair turned white in a
single night is surpassed by the New York
girl who lost hers completely off in a single
dance.
	“Mamma, I don’t see how Satan turned
out to be such a bad fellow; there wasn’t
any devil to put him up to it.”
	Lord Brougham once said that no man
had any right to a nervous system who does
not possess two thousand a year.
	A poor young man remarks that the only
advice he gets from capitalists is to “live
within his income,” whereas the difficulty
he experiences is to live without an income.
	It is stated that a boy was lynched while
endeavoring to sell the passengers on one of
the blockaded Pacific Railroad trains, copies
of the ballad of “Beautiful Snow.”
	“Ah, parson, I wish I could take my gold
with me,” said rich old Deacon Swipes. “It
might melt if you did,” quietly replied the
parson.
	Epitaph on Mrs. Jones:—“She was first
cousin to the Earl of Cork; she was bland,
affable, religious; she painted in water-
colors; and of such is the kingdom of
“Heaven.”
	An inquiring man thrust his fingers into
a horse’s mouth to see how many teeth he
had. The horse closed his mouth to see how
many fingers the man had. The curiosity
of each was fully satisfied.
	What is fashion, Annie? Fashion is
something that causes Betsy, who goes bare-
headed all the week, when the sun is
shining, to wear gloves and carry a parasol
on Sunday, when it is cloudy.
	A little boy was sent to a store for some
eggs. Before reaching home he dropped
them. In answer to his mother, who asked,
“Did you break any?” he replied, “No, I
didn’t break any, but the shells came off
some of them.”
	A Sunday-school teacher who had almost 
become discouraged over the listlessness of
her class, at last felt rewarded by an inter-
esting look from a little girl. The reward
was lost when the little creature touched a
bracelet on her arm and asked, “Teacher,
are them threaded on ’lastic?”
	There is a man in Portland, Maine, who
supports his family in a handsome style by
simply tying an able-bodied cat by the tail
to a clothes-line every night, and then going
out in the morning to collect the soap, shav.
ing-cups, brushes, etc., thrown into the
yard by angry boarders in adjoining houses.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				 —
	Ohio produced 9,072,063 pounds of cheese
last year.
	Miss Gilbert is trying to put a library in
the St. Louis jail.
	A Church organ atSchuylerville, New
York, is run by water.
	Women fill the clerkships in the Stock-
holm banks. They are not given to embez-
zlements.
	Mrs. Louisa W. Foss is a new candidate
for the honors of the elocutionary rostrum.
	Metz has lost a third of its population by
emigration since the German occupation.
	Thomas Ansbro has been convicted of
libel against Edith O’Gorman “the escaped
nun.”
	The Marquis of Bute has sent a collection
of minerals from Wales for the American
Exhibition in 1876.
	The widow of Mark Lemon, late editor of
“Punch,” has received a pension of L100
from the British Government.
	The Duke of Genoa, nephew of the King
of Italy, is about to undertake a voyage
around the world.
	San Francisco rejoices in a railroad ring,
a mining ring, a wheat ring, a whisky ring
and a real estate ring.
	A ring of land grabbers at East Saginaw
expects to make $2,000,000 in stealing the
lands of tbe Chippewa Indians.
	Anna Dickinson has two new lectures
ready, one on the woman question, the other
on the labor question.
	Hanna Matilda Dodd, deceased, gives
$1,000 to be expended in medals for the
best girl graduates of the Boston High
School.
	There is another case for Darwin near
Vancouver. A man residing near there
recently broke a fresh egg, and found there-
in a snake three inches long.
	Since the great fire six hundred and
thirty-seven buildings have been erected in
Chicago, at an estimated cost of $40,000,000.
One looking upon the re-built city can
scarcely trace the effects of the fire.
	The divorces granted last year in Con-
necticut numbered 409, being one more
than the previous year; while the marriages
numbered 26 less than the year previous
In more than two-thirds of the cases the
wife was the petitioner.
	An immense Bunsen battery is being
constructed at the Holy Cross College, Wor-
cester, Mass., which when complete, will
be powerful enough to illuminate the whole
with the electric light.
	Some figures given by the Boston “Adver-
tiser” show the profits of the manufacturers of
that State to be $102,000,000 in 1870, or
about $68 per capita to the population. The
wages paid amounted to $18,000,000 which
to those employed in the factories, was equiv-
alent to $421 each.


﻿A ROMANTIC story is told of how, during
the bombardment of Paris, a gallant French
captain, Legrand by name, undertook to bear
dispatches into the besieged city, by swim-
ming across the Seine; how he failed in his
mission, his fate remaining a mystery for
many months; and how, very recently,
there was fished up from the bottom of the
river, a skeleton, accoutred in uniform, and
clutching a water-proof satchel containing
the missing dispatches. A funeral with
military honors, and an imposing monument
in Pere-la-Chaise follow as things of course.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN IN ART.
			   ——
	Harriet Hosmer, of Watertown, Mass., is
the most widely known among the women
sculptors at Rome. An ideal head called
“Hesper,” daguerreotypes of which were
taken to Gibson, the English sculptor at
Rome, obtained that artist’s consent for the
lady to become his pupil. Among her art-
studies were copies of the “Venus of Milo,”
the “Cupid of Praxiteles,” and the “Tasso”
of the British Museum. Her first original
attempt was a head of “Daphne,” then of
“Medusa.” Two replicas to the “Daphne”
were subsequently ordered. Her next de-
sign was the shepherd wife whom Paris
deserted for Helen. In 1856 she executed
a statue of “Puck,” three copies of which
are in noble collections in England. The
following year she made a statue of
“Beatrice Cenci Asleep in her Cell,” and the
design of a monument erected in one of the
churches in memory of a beautiful daughter
of Madame Falconet, an English Catholic
lady resident of Rome. “Zenobia,” a colossal
work, architectural in style, with massive
and highly finished drapery, was sent to the
United States for exhibition, and received
the praise of art connoisseurs. In the Paris
Exposition of 1867, she exhibited the
“Sleeping Faun,” and the Legislature of
Missouri gave her a commission to execute
a statue of Thomas H. Benton.
	Miss Emma Stebbins, of New York, like
Miss Hosmer, has long been a resident at
Rome, devoted to the plastic art. She ex-
ecuted a statue of Columbus, which has
found many admirers. One of the most
pleasing and originial specimens of her skill
is a figure of “Joseph,” represented in boy-
hood. A statuesque adornment for a
fountain commissioned for the Central Park
is a representation of the “Angel of the
Waters”—the miracle beside the pool of
Bethesda.
	Miss Foley, of Vermont, has achieved an
enviable reputation by success in relievos.
Among her celebrated works is a bas relief
of Longfellow, a head of William Cullen
Bryant, and one of Charles Sumner.
	Edmonia Lewis, a dusky maiden of negro
and Indian parentage, while in her teens
abandoned herself to sculpture. During the
Union war she exhibited a bust of Colonel
Shaw, the fair-haired hero and martyr to
the cause of her race, at the Soldiers’ Relief
Fair in Boston. Since then she has modeled
the “Freedwoman on First Hearing of her
Liberty” and “Hager in the Wilderness,”
and has excited much interest among the
Roman studios during her residence in
Italy.
	 Mrs. Ames, wife of the eminent portrait
painter, has executed from memory a suc-
cessful portrait of Lincoln, in marble.
	Miss Anne Whitney, of Boston, has been
brought into favorable notice by her original
statues of “Godiva” and “Africa.”
	Mrs. Freedman, wife of the well known
American painter, J. E. Freedman, during
a long residence in Italy achieved great
fame by the delicacy and finished modeling
of several marble portraits and an elaborately
sculptured vase, carved in alto-relievo.—
N. Y. “Star.”


﻿LADIES OF OLDEN TIME.

	History and tradition offer many types of
beautiful womanhood. The grace and love-
liness of Greece, the more heroic grandeur
of old Rome, the social and personal equality,
so to speak, of the white-armed Scandin-
avian women, the domestic activities and
courtly ladyhood of the medieval “chate-
laine,” all these, and many more, are as


pictures, wherein we see represented the
ideal woman, each perfect after its kind,
and all beautiful. In saying this, we must
of course, allow for the difference of custom
between then and now, and not judge accord-
ing to the religion of our nineteenth century
drawing room. Now the rule is for men to
pay attention to women, and to prevent their
doing the most trifling act for themselves,
and “serving” is the last thing our ladies
think of; then—though this “then” is very
wide, both in race and chronology—the
distinctive quality of womanhood was her
service, and the more lovely and perfect the
lady, no matter what her nation or era, the
more thoroughly she performed the assigned
functions of her state, and the more inex-
tricable her ladyhood was connected with
such performance. Queens and princesses
bound up the wounds of, and poured out
wine for their lords and knights; and in
that pretty story of “Walthere and the
Lady Hildegund,” Walthere is represented
as falling in love with the lady while she is
serving him with wine. Also, in the story
of “Beowulf,” Hrthogar’s queen, the noble
Wealtheow, advanced from her seat to bear
the cup to the warriors. First she offered it
to the king, her husband, and greetingly
“bade him to be blithe at the bear-drink-
ing, he who was dear to his people.” Then
she went round the hall, offering the cup,
and distributing gifts to each. At length
the “ring-adorned queen, exalted in mind,”
bore the mead-cup to Beowulf himself, and
“sagacious in words,” addressed the hero
in flattering terms. The same kind of
thing prevails in some of the more northern
parts of Europe to this day; and to our mind
the picture of our young daughters of the
house themselves serving the guests—not
as inferiors, be it understood, but as the dis-
pensers of hospitality and welcome—is a far
more lovely manifestation than the silent
automatic attendance of half a dozen men
in livery, who have reduced “waiting at
table” to a science, wherein he is the
greatest proficient who is the most mechani-
cal and the least human. — “Chimney
Corner.”


﻿A YOUNG LADY’S THOUGHTS.
					—
	The following is an extract from a private
letter, written by one young lady to another,
and courteously handed to us for publication:
							Nov. 1, 1872.
	You have been in my thoughts all the
morning, and I have been wondering
whether you would think of a year ago to-
day, or not. It was just another such a
morning as this—bright and clear and sunny
and beautiful. I called on you at an early
hour that morning—I recollect the date
because I have rarely in my life enjoyed
any little circumstance as I did that health-
ful, happy walk. I wanted you to go for a
run on the hill with me, but—let me tell
you how you were employed when I entered
the house:	Mixing bread and	making
preparations to wash. You couldn’t go, so
excused yourself. You know I was just
home after a month’s visit to——, and I
could not help contrasting your position
with that of some of our pretty belle butter-
tlies, who, I knew, were not out of bed by
that hour, and who, when they did rise
would spend all that delightful morning
shut in from the beautiful, glorious sunshine,
dressing and powdering, preparing to receive
or make fashionable calls. How I appre-
ciated you and your real worth, then! There,
too, was your big brother in his little shop,
measuring and planing and hammering
away, and looking so good natured and con-
tented, that I thought, at the moment, any


one who would not put up such an honest
tradesman, in any case of importance,
against a dozen of worthless, polished city
puffs, who get their living—no matter how,
would be badly cheated.
	How thankful we should be, my dear
friend, that our mothers have been wise
enough to show us the importance and the
dignity of labor! They have not taught us,
either, that physical strength, its culture
and development, is all that is worthy of
attention, as some coarse-minded people
seem to believe. But that the powers of
thought and reason, the immortal mind,
must also be carefully regarded; to cultivate
order, polite manners without affectation,
neatness, sweet temper, a love for the
beautiful in nature and in art, and respect
and reverence for all things pure and good.
Your mother and my mother have taught
us these principles, and if we do not employ
and enjoy them, the fault is ours and not
theirs.
	There are few mothers like ours. God
bless them and bless the poor, old world with
many such in future. 	  *	  *
								JULIA.


﻿Jumping from trains when in motion has
been made a penal offence in England.
	A remarkable old English gentleman
is missing, and is so particularly described
in an advertisement in the London Times
that, if he be found, the finders will be at
no loss to recognize him. He wears “a
brown wig and a green shade over one eye.”
He has no hair on his face, but he carries a
deep red scar over his left eyebrow, has
“large yellow teeth dressed in black with a
grey overcoat.” Now a man with a wig
over his eye and an overcoat on his teeth
ought to be identified with a positive assur-
ance wherever he may turn up, especially if
he spends freely and gives checks on Lon-
don banks, as this old-gentleman-errant is
said to do.—New York Tribune.

	An English journal announces an im-
provement in railway signalling, put into
operation at Birmingham, which is on the
London and Northwestern Railroad. It says
that “by a new arrangement of signalling
there will be no more screeching from en-
gines within the station, except for shunt-
ing or pilot engines. From all the departure
platforms telegraph wires have been laid
down communicating with the pointsmen’s
signal boxes at each end of the station.
When a train is ready to start the superin-
tendent unlocks the signalling-box, and sig-
nals in what direction the train is going.
On receiving the signal that a train is ready
to start, the pointsman shows the signal
“line clear,” and the driver starts his train
without any preparatory whistling.”
	An Indiana editor lays down his shears
for a few minutes to write a double-leaded
editorial, in which he plaintively remarks:
“We are the recipient of half a peck of nice
onions, two watermelons and a bottle of
ginger-beer from one of our subscribers.
The gifts were like the shadow of a rock in
a weary land. We are glad some one re-
membered us in the midst of our labors and
cares, and evinced that remembrance in so
delicate a manner. We dote on onions and
love melons dearly; and so long as the fra-
grance of the former and the gripes of the
latter linger about us, we shall hold the kind
donor in affectionate remembrance. Of gin-
ger-beer we have never been able to speak
enthusiastically, but may say that our chil-
dren enjoyed it greatly; while the empty
bottle added not a little to the effective
force of our office armory.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City.  Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS, 
							Salt Lake City.

DR W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense-stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY, 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,  
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

A PRIZE!
	Should be in every house!
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
					Z. C. M. I. General Agents.
Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
    We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated 
				SALT LAKE GLOVES.
    Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty. 
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
						H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM: For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	      ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
							J. E. JOHNSON, 
							   St. George, Utah.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			
		       A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leadings topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

    No subscription received for less than six months.
    It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

    Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1872.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				—
	ln Burlington, Iowa, the street lights
are extinguished at 10 o'clock. It is pre-
sumable that the people there are temperate
and moral.
	After the horses, first came the
chickens and then the hogs, as sufferers by
the epidemic among the animals first named.
Will man come next?
	The fair famed English poetess, Eliza
Cook, is reported ill beyond recovery. Does
she still cling to the “Old Armed Chair” of
which she has so sweetly sung?
	From present indications the coming
winter will be a hard one. Some time ago
work on the Nothern Pacific R. R,. had to be
suspended in consequnce of the severity of
the weather.
	Pioche is anxious for the railroad track
to be extended form the terminus of the
Utah Southern to Bullionville, that the
coal mines of Kanarra may be bound to the
silver mines of Pioche
	A Pennsylvania woman lately sold her
two weeks’ old baby for $10, but wanted it
back soon after, because another party had
offered $25 for it. Some people have
curious ways of making money.
	The last present ever received by Abra-
ham Lincoln, an elegant family Bible given
him by the colored people of the South, has
just been presented by Mrs. Lincoln to Rev.
Dr. Miner of Belvedere, Illinois.
	Fires and storms on land and sea, inun-
dations and general devastation, reports
of which daily crowd the telepraphic columns
of the newspapers, seem indicative of a
universal crisis in some direction, at no
distant period.
	A friend announces that the whole world
is apparently on the point of committing
suicide, but what with its present intemper-
ance, insubordination, insolvency and gen-
eral inconsistencies it might philosophically
be considered as being already in the very
act.
	In Marseilles, France, a jury recently
acquitted a beautiful young brunette for the
crime of assassinating her lover for refusing
to purchase a gold watch to which she took
a fancy. Another decided case ol insanity;
for if the murderess was “compos mentis”
the jury certainly not.
	Boston’s relief fund, for the sufferers
by its great fire, has reached about two
hundred thousand dollars. Wealth has not
made the Bostonian heart altogether hard,
nor frozen up its fountains of charity; or
else the great conflagration has softened
the one and thawed out the other.
	Scotland seems to be highly favored
with visits from distinguished people this
year. The Queen and the Prince and
Princess of Wales are there; The French
Empress and the Prince Imperial but lately
left; Gladstone and John Bright have gone
there; Stanley has been there; and Lowell
is somewhere in that part of the Globe.
	Cooper told of the “last of the Mohicans”
years ago, but it appears that about 100 of
the tribe still survive and have been in-
vested with the rights of citizenship by the
[new column]
Legislature of Connecticut; and that they
are as industrious and well informed as any
of their white neighbors. America may
yet be proud of her aborigines.
	Senator Sumner has returned from
Europe, and on Wednesday last he met
Senator Henry Wilson, the newly elected
Vice-President, in the office of the New
York “Tribune,” the two greeting each
other cordially. Thus the political hatchet,
it appears, is being buried by the “Tri-
bune,” and the rival factions of Republicans.
	Mrs. Greeley, formerly Miss Mary G.
Cheney, whose death lately occurred at the
residence of Alvin Johnson, in New York,
is said to have been a lady of highly culti-
vated intellect, taste and social attainments.
True sympathizers will condole more with
the old Chappaqua Farmer on her loss than
upon any political disappointment which he
has lately sustained.
	Diamonds and other precious stones are
becoming so plenty, or so plentifully talked
of, in this western region, that we do not
wonder at mothers when referring to their
babies, speaking of eyes like diamonds, and
lips like rubies. It is to be feared that some
of the investors in diamond expeditions,
may have reason to look blue as sapphires
before their experience is ended.
	A political crisis in France, more in-
surrection in Spain, Rome threatened with
radical uprisings, trouble in Prussia between
the Emperor and the national Diet; with
every leading nation, including our own,
talking of strengthening its powers of offense
and defense. These are the evidences of
“peace” which the civilized world presents,
and of which there has lately been so much
vaunting.
	On Wednesday, Nov. 20, Boston sufferd
loss by another large fire, although it was
small compared with the great conflagration
which so short a time before had preceded
it. The total loss reached nearly $350,000;
and the large printing establishment of
Rand & Avery was destroyed, with the
December number of “Old and New,” one
issue of “Littell’s Living Age” and other
periodicals.
	A Sensational New York paper reported
recently that Greeley was insane, and the
story was telegraphed over the country. If
Greeley is crazy, who in New York is wise?
He suffered deeply in feelings and endured
much loss of sleep during the last illness
and death of his beloved wife—prostrating
him for a time—but he is likely to live and
prove himself much more sane than those
who gave currency to such a tale.
	The Woodhull and Claflin sisters have
been saying and publishing fearful things
about Henry Ward Beecher, Mrs. Theodore
Tilton, and New York “society” generally.
They were arrested, lodged in jail on the
charge of publishing “obscene literature,”
and also held on a charge of libel against one
Challis, a New York banker or broker. If
one tenth part of what they charge—and
they defend much of it—be true, then the
corruption of “Gotham” is something terri-
ble to think of.
	Miss Kate Janaway is the daughter of
an ex-Mayor of Memphis, Tennessee, but
she has learned that woman’s accomplish-
[new column]
ments should include more than a little
piano and a large amount of fashion and
novel reading. She caried off premiums at
the late Agricultural Fair for roast beef,
plum pudding, and her style of preparing a
variety of vegetables; enough to give her
the claim to be considered the best cook in
Tennessee. And she received twenty-five
offers of marriage on the spot! How much of
romance, and how much of prosaic Common
Sense were in those offers?
	Henry Berge, “the guardian angel and
the patron saint of the bestial race,” stand-
ing at the junction of Third and Fourth
avenues, at the Cooper Institute, New York,
during the horse distemper, displayed his
professional shield, and in the name of the
august Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, ordered men to cease driving
their gasping horses. And being reinforced
by the police he carried the day. Good for
Henry. But what kind of beings must
they have been who had to be compelled to
unhiteh their sick and panting beasts?
	We clip the following from the Wash-
ington “Star” of November 20, where it
appeared under the heading “Hero and
Heroine,” without further comment: “Syl-
vester Frambes, of Tippecanoe, Spencer
county, Ind., was drawn into a sugar crusher
and had his arm crushed to tbe shoulder one
day last week. His wife came to his assist-
ance, and when she had released him by
backing the horse she fainted away. With
great nerve and endurance he carried her to
the house on his uninjured arm, and re-
stored her to consciousness, when she went
for a surgeon, who disjointed the arm at
the shoulder. He will probably recover.”
	Vermont does not believe that capital
punishment is “legal murder,” as some “ad-
vanced minds” term it. The Legislature
of that State, by a large majority, has re-
fused to abolish the death penality. That
whiich is needed to repress alarming and
heinous crimes throughout the country, is
not abolishing of capital punishment, nor
the passage of severer statutes; but the due
honoring of wise and just statutes and their
rigid enforcement. But while men can kill
with impunity, and gloat over their deeds
of blood, and can be rescued from the
clutches of the law,unharmed and un-
punished, by influence or money, what will
bad men care whether such a penalty
remains upon the statute books of States or
is formally abolished.
	Another paragraph on this page refers
to the story that Horace Greeley had gone
insane, refusing to credit it, and looking
forward to a length of life for him. Later
reports confirm the belief in his sanity, but
destroy the hope of his prolonged life. The
great editor is gone. He died on Friday
evening, 29th ult., at ten minutes to seven
o’clock, nearly sixty-two years of age. The
cause of his death was virtually sleepless-
ness. He could not sleep, after the exertion
and exhaustion consequent upon the death
of his wife, and the strain upon him during
the Presidential campaign; and in about four
weeks after she was carried to the grave,
his spirit passed from earth, the sleepless-
ness having turned to inflamation of the
brain. And so another great and wise man
has fallen!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿	Written for the Exponent.
			LONGINGS.

		All night! All dark!
		So drear and sad!
		No light! No little spark
		To make me glad;
  No loving arms to twine around me now;
  No tender kiss to soothe my aching brow.

		Weary! Weary!
		Heaven is full of rest.
		Earth seem so dreary,
		Life so poor at best—
  And yet we all must take an active part,
  Nor sink beneath the burdens of the heart.

		Hopeless and sad
		Our way may be—
		Lord make us glad
		To worship Thee.
  Oh! lead our footsteps in some brighter path;
  Teach man to him Thou givest all he hath.
		
		Hope sends her light,
		Like some bright star;
		And lends us sight
		To joys afar;
  That we may see wisdom in Thy ways,
  Nor spend, in vain repining, all our days.
PROVO.							M. J. T.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Sister Amelia M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden under date Nov. 22:
	We have been having severely cold
weather, still a few of the sisters met in the
capacity of a meeting on the coldest day we
have had There is a lively interest taken
in the Society, and great desire to do good
is manifested in caring for the poor. This
work is one of grave interest to me, and I
feel that much good may be accomplished
through the Exponent. The sisters need
not be idle, and think they have no mission
to perform, for even that of wife and mother
is, to me, a vast and noble one. Yet in
connection with these cares, we can find
time to speak words of kindness and com-
fort to those who are cast down, administer
to the wants of the poor, and visit the sick.
My prayer is that God will open the hearts
of those who have means to give to those who
have not, and both will receive a blessing.
I believe when people do good deeds their
own consciences reward them for it.

	On Saturday, Nov. 23, at the general Re-
trenchment Meeting, which is held Semi-
monthly in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, President Mrs. Isabella Horn ex-
pressed a great desire to witness a revival
among the sisters; that they might become
more united in faith, and also in the extend-
ing and promulgating of every wise and
beneficial principle. And for this cause, she
hoped that the meetings would be well
attended during the coming winter. Com-
ing together and holding converse in an
intelligent manner, upon topics of interest,
serves to enlighten, refine and elevate the
mental faculties; and the more there are
who associate thus together, the broader will
be the current of intellectual improvement.
The house could be made warm and com-
fortable, would accommodate a goodly
number, and she desired to see it well filled
every meeting day. A number of the sisters
made short but pithy remarks.
	Physiology was chosen for the subject to
be considered at the next meeting.

				Brigham City, Nov. 20. 1872,
Editor Woman's Exponent.—
	At a recent meeting of our society a
motion to have the word “Female” dropped
from the name, according to sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carred by a unani-
mous vote.	
				Harriet A. Snow. President.
[next column]
				Kamas Prairie, Nov. 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a meetiug held iu this place, Nov.
15th, Sister Ann Harder presiding, it was
moved, seconded and carried unanimously
that the word “Female” be dropped from
the name of the Society, in accordance with
the suggestion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and
others of our faithful sisters in the Relief
Societies. Some satisfaction was expressed
at the change, for we had long considered
the canceled word unnecessary to the signi-
fication of the appellation. The Exponent
was warmly advocated by the President,
and several of the sisters. We felt to
endorse the sentiment so ably expressed on
the last page of your valuable publication:
“It is better to represent ourselves than to
be misrepresented by others.” We have
been misrepresented for so long a time that
some may consider it not worth our while to
speak for ourselves, and in defense of the
truth at this late hour. But we may at least
assert our right to utter our own opinions,
belief and knowledge. For since the
glorious Gospel of the Son of God has made
us free, we are free indeed, and seek to
honor the God whom we revere, and trust
in Him who is the Rock of our Salvation.
				Mrs. Phebe Young,
						Ass’t Secretary.

			Alpine City, Nov. 21st, 1872.
Editor Exponent:—At our last meeting a
vote was carried unanimously in favor of
dispensing with the word “Female” as an
unnecessary prefix to the name of the
Society. The sisters feel well and are on
hand to do their duty as Saints.
	We have a hundred-dollar share in the
woolen factory at Provo, a twenty-five
dollar share in our Co-operative store, have
donated twenty-five dollars to help gather
the Saints, and made other collections to be
used for the benefit of the poor, to the
amount of sixty dollars. We try to give,
and take, lessons of economy.
	I have been a member of this church for
thirty years, and have never seen a time
when the truths of the Gospel were so en-
couraging as at present. The Lord said he
would choose the weak things of this world
to confound the wise. This is being fulfilled;
and the wisdom of God is greater than that
of man.
					Margaret McCullough.

				Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	I forward a brief report to you, of our last
monthly meeting, held on the 7th inst., at
which a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society, as
suggested, which was unanimous. Presi-
dent Mrs. E. J. Stickney, who had just
returned from a visit to Salt Lake City,
made some excellent and very cheering
remarks. Several highly commendable
articles were read from the Exponent,
which we value very much; and meeting
adjourned until the first Monday in Decem-
ber. Benediction by Counselor Mrs. Green-
halch,
				Julia Wilson, Secretary.


﻿The will of the late Mrs. Arabella Rice,
of Portsmouth, N. H., who is said to have
been the wealthiest lady in the State, dis-
poses of about $200,000 in legacies; among
those of a public nature being $30,000 to the
town of Kittery for a public library, $20,000
to the State Asylum for the insane, and
$3,000 each, to the Portsmouth Atheneum
and Unitarian Church.
	Seventy thousand Angora goats leap
from precipice to precipice in California.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
		
	One good strong brain at the helm of the
family craft is worth several pairs of stout
hands. As everything aboard ship depends
upon the skill with which the rudder hands
are made to do their duty, so everything in
the household depends on the outlining of
the year’s, the week’s, or the day’s work.
If the mistress leaves matters to drift as it
happens, or trusts the management of her
affairs to unskilled or unfaithful hands, she
will soon find herself in the midst of
inextricable confusion. We cannot but
think that more than half the blame mis-
tresses lay upon their servants for work ill
done or undone belongs at their own doors.
The person who voluntarily takes and holds
a subordinate position virtually acknowl-
edges her inability to setup for herself; she
confesses by so doing that she needs a
mistress, and that her duties may be pre-
scribed by another. When fully instructed
in the routine she is to follow, she may be
left to herself, in a measure; but rare is that
servant who does not need at times the
sympathy, the thoughtfulness, the aid of
her mistress in accomplishing the work
expected of her. Our great merchants, our
leading bankers, our prominent railroad
men do not trust the management of their
business to subordinates. They visit every
important post in person, and not by proxy,
and know by ocular inspection that every-
thing is right. If one needs to engineer her
way in household matters when she can
hire muscle to carry out her plans, much
more is brain-work necessary when she has
nothing but her own hands to depend upon.
It is worth while in such a case to study out
the best plan for the week’s campaign, to
decide upon what first shall be done and
what next, to arrange the points of attack
in the most skillful and felicitous manner,
and with reference to the time and the
power that may be devoted to accomplish
the desired ends. By this means the house-
keeper will know exactly what she is doing,
how her work progresses, and be able to
take advantage of whatever may turn up
favorable to her wishes. Most of us can call
to mind women of feeble health who accom-
plish marvels in the way of work, simply by
their skill in planning. In this men may help
their wives very much if they will. The
unbiased judgment of a friend is often of the
greatest value to one fretted and wearied by
complications and perplexities in his affairs.
The man coming in from the great world
into the little world of domestic life can
often tell at a glance at what point friction
is greatest, exactly where the fulcrum shall
be placed so that with the lever in hand the
weight to be moved shall be lifted. Where
the wife is wanting in the ability to map
out her line of operations, and the husband
possesses it, he should use this talent for
the best good of both parties. It matters
not which half of the dual unit stands at the
wheel, if the course of the ship is ever
toward the desired haven, and away from
rocks and shoals.—“New York Tribune.”
	White Cake.—One cup of butter, two of
sugar, one of milk, four and a half of flour,
four eggs, one and a half teaspoonful of
cream of tartar, half do. of soda.
	Soft Gingerbread.—One cup of me-
lasses, one of sour cream, two eggs, salt,
ginger, one teaspoonful of soda; make it
into a thick batter with flour.
	Potatoes.—Always add salt to the water
while potatoes are boiling; boil moderately,
not violently, and let them be only well
covered with water.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TWO SIDES OF LIFE.
					—
		There is a shady side of life,
		   And a sunny side as well,
		And 'tis for every one to say
		   On which he’d choose to dwell;
		For every one unto himself
		   Commits a grievous sin,
		Who bars the blessed sunshine out,
		   And shuts the shadows in.
		
		The clouds may wear their saddest robes,
		   The sun refuse to smile,
		And sorrow, with her troop of ills,
		   May threaten us the while;
		But still the cheerful herat has power
		   A sunbeam to provide;
		And only those whose souls are dark,
		   Dwell on life’s shady side.


﻿FLOWERS.
				—
	Nothing is so reasonable and cheap as
good manners.
	There is no grace in a benefit that sticks
to the fingers.
	How few the men who dare to be just
what they are.
	No person knows what he would do till
comes the time to decide.
	If you would add to the happiness of
yourself and others, work without fretting.
	Mrs. Partington says she gets up every
morning at the chill carrion of the chande-
lier.
	He who does evil that good may come
pays a toll to the devil to let him into
Heaven.
	Of all earthly music, that which reaches
farthest into heaven is the beating of a
loving heart.
	If men strove as hard for happiness as
for money, manhood would be more glorious
than now.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
maarriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly.
	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Good epigrams, like good jokes, never
lose their youth; but when and where they
commence their wanderings, “you nor I nor
no one knows.
	One should not be downcast at failures.
They are often far better for the student
than success. He who goes to school to his
mistakes will always have a good school-
master, and will not be likely to become idle
or conceited.
	“When speaking of the dead,” says Sir
James Puckle, in his “Gray Cap for a Green
Head,” a volume abounding in quaint
similies folded about kernels of good sense
—“When speaking of the dead, so fold up
your discourse that their virtues may be
outwardly shown, while their vices are
wrapped up in silence.” A good way in
which to speak of the living, too.
	“Who says angels must be all young and
splendid? Are there not some comforting
ones, shabby and tender, whose radiance
does not dazzle nor bewilder; whose faces
are worn, perhaps, while their stars shine
with a tender, tremulous light, more sooth-
ing to our aching earth-bound hearts than
the glorious radiance of brighter spirits?”
	The habit of fretting becomes so settled
that it is very difficult to overcome, in every-
thing in life, whether of great or small
importance. It is well worth the effort to
look upon things in a cheerful light for
personal comfort and the happiness of those
around us. A hornet’s nest is a dangerous
and disagreeable thing to stir up, but not
worse than the disposition of some fretting
men and women.—“Elm Orlou,”


[For the Exponent.
			STANDING ALONE.

	Down he goes! And, Oh! what a thump
on that precious head! It must be bathed
in cold water and camphor. And tender,
pitying expressions must be uttered to sooth
the little wounded heart—which is as nearly
broken by having made this first grand
attempt to “do something,” and met with
so sudden and unexpected a failure, in the
way of a fall, fright and injury, as it ever
will be by heavier falls in future life. All
the laughter and innocent joyousness which
illumed the baby face a moment before,
have disappeared, and tears of anguish and
cries of dispondency and pain, tell how
accutely the disappointment is felt by the
enterprising young genius, just beginning
to learn to walk. His hopes are blighted,
his prospects so bedimmed and clouded that
he feels he never can be anything or any-
body in the world, and overwhelmed with
grief and discouragements, he allows his
little head to droop upon a loving neck, and
there wails himself to sleep under the in-
fluence of the sweet lullaby of a sympathiz-
ing voice. After a brief rest, however, he
will awake again, and with renewed anima-
tion and vigor, stand bravely forth to make
another effort with, perhaps, a little more
caution than before, and, very possibly
better success.
	But other failures lie in wait for him.
Other disappointments will have to be
encountered. The path of life he will find,
is thronged with them. Every little way
there is a hill to be surmounted, a summit
to be gained. And untaught feet are ever
apt to choose the slippery paths, because
they look most smooth and inviting. And
with a fall as sudden as the infant’s first,
are fair, bright prospects often stricken
down, and high hopes blasted by a single
shock, and all the sunshine of a young, glad
life crushed and lost apparently for ever.
Then; should there be no sympathizer near,
no voice to cheer, no practiced hand to
guide, and to lift up and rest the weary head,
and bring new life and animation to the
over burdened, bruised and breaking heart
—how terrible to stand thus all alone. But
it is not, nor never can be so to one who lives
for pure and noble aims. The happiest
heart is heavy in its turn; the strongest,
weak at times, and calls for aid; but there
is a Source of strength for the fainting soul
which never fails, and sunshine for the
gloomiest heart, brighter and more glorious
than the mother’s smile upon her loving,
trusting dear one.				G.


﻿EASE IN SOCIETY.

	“I’d rather thrash in the barn all day,” said
Reuben Riley to his sister, as he adjusted an
uncomfortable collar about his neck, “than
go to the pesky party. I never know what
to do with myself, stuck up in the parlor all
the evening. If the fellows would pull
their coats off and go out and chop wood on
a match, there’d be some fun in that.”
	“Well, I hate it as bad as you do, Reu-
ben,” said sister Lucy. “The fact is we
never go nowhere, to see anybody, and no
wonder we feel so awkward when we happen
to stir out.” 
	The remarks of this brother and sister
were but the echoes of the sentiment of
many other farmers’ boys and girls when
invited out to spend a social evening. But
poor Lucy had not hit the true cause of the
difficulty; it was not because they seldom
went any where, but because there was such
a wide difference between their home and
the company’s manners. The true way to


feel at ease in any garb is to wear it often.
If the pleasing garb of good manners is only
put on upon rare occasions, it will never fit
well and seem comfortable.
	Learn to behave properly at home, to
cultivate yourself. Do not sit or stand or
lounge about in an ungainly attitude, but
acquire a manly, erect bearing. I have
never seen such vigorous, hardy manhood
in any class as among cultivated farmers
sons. Let table manners be especially
looked after.
	If you are so unfortunate as to have a
mother who is careless in this regard, you
must do the best you can to remedy the
early defects in your home training. Note
carefully how well-bred people behave, and
do your best to imitate them. It is noble to
be an imitator of all that is good and beauti-
ful. Above all, if you wish to be at home
in society, fill your brain with ideas. Set
your mind at work. Wake it out of the
sluggishness it would naturally sink into if
you were only a plodder and nothing more,
by good stirring thought. Take the news-
papers and read them thoroughly. Know-
ledge is a great power in many more senses
than one. If you go into society with
something in your mind worth talking about,
you will not fail to find listeners who will
treat you with respect; and where you are
well received, you will not fail very soon to
find yourself at ease.—“Country Gentle-
man."


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		WHEN TO SPEAK.
			     —
	There is often virtue in remaining silent
when malevolence, jealousy, contempt or
ridicule excites the colloquial powers to
scorn, inconsistency, harshness or derision.
But there are also times when the tame,
taciturnity of which some pseudo-models 
of propriety are so anxious to present a
formula, reaches culpability. And these 
instances are of more frequent occurrence
than is generally admitted or realized.
When we hear the truth assailed falsely, it
is a duty for us to open our mouths and
endeavor to correct the heresy if possible,
by sound, philosophic reasoning. And this
may be done in a frank, easy manner, with-
out extravagance or cause of offence. When
a cheerful and clear mind may infuse a ray
of light into a burdened and beclouded one,
by words of counsel and comfort, it is un-
charitable and ungenerous to preserve
silence. And some gifted, yet over-careful 
people, may have accounts to settle hereafter 
for bridling the tongue too closely; if they
do not allow it to be of use where it might,
but for the mock-modesty of an affectedly
delicate instinct. Meeting a person in the
street, with whom you have a slight acquaint- 
ance, and who is in the least degree worthy
of recognition, and passing without notice,	
shows a lack of sociability which is often
mistaken for superciliousness. It is better
to speak, even should the reflection present
itself that others imagine themselves bet-
ter or wiser than we are. For if we believe
that other people entertain such feelings,
they may be led to credit the same opinion
of us, by our lack of sociability. But should
it be the case that they look upon us as
courtiers because we do not shun them, we
will, at least have the appearance of being
letter bred than they, if for this reason
they always allow us to speak first.


﻿TO ARRIVE at perfection, a man must have
very sincere friends or inveterate enemies;
because he would be made sensible of his
good or ill conduct either by the censures
of the one or the admonitions of the other.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City,
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	Flogging has been abolished in the public
schools in Chicago......Nellie Grant is at
home......A man in Petaluma, California,
has made a discovery of means by which
perpetual motion may be sustained, and
values the discovery at $20,000,000; of
course......The Supreme Court of Maine has
admitted Mrs. C. H. Nash to practice as an
attorney and counselor at-law......Rome is
to have a daily newspaper edited by an
American......A plague is carrying off the
poultry on the banks of the Hudson and
every three hundred inhabitants......The
known coal deposits of the Rocky Mountain
region extend over an area of upwareds of
250,000 square miles......Tennessee has a
colored female preacher......Rosa Bonheur
will visit the United States next year......
Boston public Schools have abolished the
system of offering prize medals......The
Oneida Community abolish marriage alto-
gether and the women of the Community
are said to look listless and spiritless......At
Oatka Falls, Kansas, they have a farmers’
wives’ club......A recent diamond robbery at
the Cape of Good Hope amounted to the
value of L30,000......Mrs, Yelverton is in
Africa with the intention, it is reported, of
joining Dr. Livingstone......The public debt
of Texas is estimated at $23,361,000......A
couple of young ladies at Monticello Avenue,
Jersey City, “laid out” a drunken sailor in
a ditch, the other day, for standing in their
way on the crossing and demanding a kiss
for toll......The “Freeman’s” oath was duly
administered to Mrs. Huntington of Norwalk
Conn., by the Board of Selectmen, but the
registers refused to put her name in the
voting list......The “Young Woman’s Chris-
tian Association,” of Boston, is soliciting
contributions, to aid young women who
have been thrown out of employment by
the great fire......Specie in the Bank of
France increased one million francs in one
week lately......J. Richie, of Vallejo, Cali-
fornia, has this season captured fifteen
sharks......Earthquake shocks in the Owens
river and Haiovi Meadows have been quite
frequent of late......Rich tin deposits are
reported to have been discovered within
twenty miles of San Francisco......The resi-
dences of the late James Gordon Bennett, at
Washington Heights and Fifth Avenue, New
York, are to let for five years......The St,
Louis “Evening Dispatch” has been pur-
chased by Robert Barclay for $120,000......
The Secretary of War compliments Congress
for completeness in last year’s legislation......
Susquehanna rivers......The laws of Kansas
give mothers the management of their
children......Judge Mayer refused to record
the votes of women in Oregon, on election
day......Cinnabar is said to abound in the
vicinity of Harrisburg, Linn Co., Oregon.
......A German woman refused to acknow-
ledge her three children to avoid paying for
their ride on the cars......California has a
hotel composed of ten immense hollow trees;
they are Calaveras Big trees...The figures
of the entire standing army of Europe are
put at 5,164,300......On the splendid marble
monument and tomb of Ferdinand and
Isabella, in the Cathedral at Grenada, the
king and queen are represented as lying
side by side......A new religious sect has
been started in Iowa, the members of which
call themselves Americans......An Italian
journal announces the death, at Placenza,
her native city, of Benedotta Pisaroni, aged
79, a celebrated soprano and contralto
singer of former days......Old woodsmen
mention as a curious fact, that beech and
sycamore trees are never struck by lightning,
though found in close proximity to oak,
[new column]
hickery and other species of trees that are 
often found torn to pieces by the subtle
fluid......A recent female collector who had
been round gathering up contributions for
“Widow Smith,” in San Francisco, was
discovered drunk in a saloon frequented
by thieves, and taken to the “calaboose.”......
San Francisco, it is said, has one widow to
Memories of Dean Alford are being pub-
lished...The great lion tamer, Herr Dries-
bach, is a farmer now, in Iowa......The
Grand Duke Nicholas, of Russia, is on a
pleasure trip to Greece......The Pope has
nominated an editor to the bishopric.......
The monument, of General Lee, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, will soon be completed......
The royal physician, Sir William Gull, lately
received $4,000 for a single visit......The
house of Dante, in Florence, is being sadly
neglected......The grandfather of the late
William H. Seward was a Colonel in the
Revolutionary war......Female voices are
prohibited in the choir under the jurisdic-
tion of Archbishop Manning......St. Louis
is going to erect a statue to the gallant Gen-
eral Nathaniel Lyon.....Mrs. Dr. Groasse,
of Milwaukee, has been sentenced to five
years imprisonment for passing counterfeit
money.


﻿NOTICE.
				     —
	Subscribers will please remember that the
present number commences the second half
year of the Exponent, and they who subscribed
for six months will understand that their sub-
scriptions have expired. Ladies in this city,
who have paid for having their papers carried,
and do uot receive them, will please notify the
editor and the matter will be rectified. City
subscribers who have not paid the carrier, can
obtain their papers at Campbell & Patter-
son’s.


﻿WHAT WE MEAN.
				    ——
	Queries are still frequently made concerning
the object of the EXPONENT; whether it is de-
signed to merely vindicate the cause of woman,
her aspirations and prerogatives; or whether its
contents are calculated to be strictly religious,
with no diversity of sentiments and principles;
if it sustains all theories advanced by the Pro-
phets of God in these and former days, or if it
has no other aim than the advocacy of “Plu-
rality of wives.” Notwithstanding the concise
yet full explanation given on these subjects in
the Prospectus to the EXPONENT, which so far
has been published on the last page of each
number of the journal, we willingly comply
with the request to endeavor once more to ex-
plain our intentions definitely and comprehen-
sively.
	The EXPONENT does not claim to support
any one particular cause, practice or opinion.
But being an advocate of everything which is
calculated to interest, instruct, or in any way
benefit woman, its columns are open for the re-
ception of all communications of a suitable
nature, from the pen of any of the ladies of
Utah, whose views and practices it is chiefly
designed to represent.


﻿HOLIDAYS.
					—
	Thursday, the 28th ult., was by Presidential
proclamation set apart as a day of thanksgiving
for the United States. While not designated
as a day for recreation and enjoyment it was
generally so observed, and looked upon as a
“holiday,” in the ordinary acceptance of the
word, which is simply a corruption of “holyday,”
or a day set apart for pious observances. So
such seasons were at first considered in Europe,
and were usually dedicated to some “patron
saint,” some man or some woman whose
accorded piety was supposed to have endowed
them with a special power of blessing, and a
country or a place was dedicated to, and a day set
apart out of respect for each, that their patron-
age might be secured. These were called, “holy
days,” and are now called “holidays,” being
at first a mixture of worship and amusement;
of prayers offered up to the Saint whose day
was being celebrated, and of joyous exercises,
which formed a healthful relaxation from the
cares, and toils of every day life. In some
Roman Catholic countries these days were
multiplied beyond all bounds, encouraging
laziness, intemperance and their kindred vices;
while in these United States, where no religion
is specially recognized, there is a scarcity of
such seasons of relaxation. And while Thanks-
giving Day is now accepted as a time for
general enjoyment and amusement, there is
little doubt that our forefathers, in first deciding
upon such an occasion for a general union of
the whole people in giving thanks for mercies
received, were solemnly sincere, and really did
dedicate the day to returning thanks to the
Almighty, in prayer and praise, for His protect-
ing care and vouchsafed blessings.
	But in this regard, “the spirit of the age,” as
exemplified in the United States, is widely
wrong. It drives hard on the road to money-
making, looks only to present or future fortune,
and disregards the innocent, recreative relaxa-
tion which days devoted to amusement and
enjoyment afford. Various parts of different
countries observe days as fairs, feasts, wakes and
the like, the aim being to bring people together
for general enjoyment, with a suspension of
work and buisness, all of which is conducive to
the general welfare; for the mind needs change
and the body rest, other and more than are ob-
tained by a simple and proper observance of the
Sabbath.
	For these reasons Sunday School festivals
social parties, pic nic parties, theatrical per-
formances, and similar assemblages for enjoy-
ment, have been encouraged in this Territory
by President Young and other leading men, and
for these reasons, we believe a wise and proper
increase of “holidays,” or days expressly
devoted to relaxation and enjoyment, would be
conducive of good to all. Hence we urge upon
parents the wisdom of affording to children a
judicious amount of amusement, and upon all,
the requisite change, variety and recreation
necessary to highten the enjoyment of life and
prolong its existence for good upon the earth.


DEMORALIZING INFLUENCES.
					  —
	Atrocities of late occurrence, in this city,
serve to render the aspect for the return of the
“happy days gone by,” when purity and inno-
cence were in no danger of being contaminated,
or virtue outraged, in no wise auspicious.
There has been a time, since the settlement of
Utah by the “Mormons,” in which the modesty
and chastity of woman were here regardrd as
her chief adornments; and held more sacred by
her honorable and respectful protectors than
every other treasure, even life itself. But base,


villainous men have intruded their persons
and fiendish practices even here, as emissaries
of the evil one, to tempt, decoy, entrap, and, if
possible, to destroy the virtue of the young and
thus prevent the future progress and prosperity
of the pure minded and God-fearing among the
people. And this fact, standing prominently
forward, as it does, should be a powerful admon-
ition to the inexperienced, the young and the
virtuous to be circumspect in their associations,
their coversation and deportment. Not only
should woman seek to maintain her own
crowning glory, purity and integrity, but
mothers and sisters will also do well to wield
the benign influence of which pure and noble
womanhood is ever possessed, energetically and
ceaselessly over the minds of the young of the
opposite sex. There is danger for them as well
as for the beauty and simplicity of maidenhood,
and they cannot be too prudent in respect to
the company they keep and the inflnences
which they allow themselves to be made subject
to.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Work on the Temple is progressing finely
this season. It is really gratifying to take an
occasional close survey of the structure and
workmanship of such a splendid edifice.
	Will the Presidents of the Relief Societies
please notice Sister E. R. Snow’s note at the
head of the editorial in number 18, Oct. 10th, of
the Exponent? Some of the Secretaries are
sending us reports in which no reference is
made to it, or the proposed changing of the
name of the Society.
	Hons. George Q. Cannon and Wm. H.
Hooper left this City for Washington, to repre- 
sent Utah in Congress, on Wednesday, 27th ult.
The latter gentleman is the Territorial Dele-
gate for the present session; and the former is
Delegate elect, to take his sea on the 4th of
March next with the assembling of the lately
elected Congress.
	A brief synopsis of the doings of the general
retrenchment meetings conducted in this city,
will hereafter occupy a space in our Relief
Society Reports, for the benefit of ladies resid-
ing in different parts who have not the privilege
of personal attendance. At the same time, all
who have opportunities, should not fail of being
present at these meetings.
	General Thos. L. Kane, whose eloquent
account of the “Expulsion of the Mormons from
Nauvoo” will be familiar to most of our readers,
has been paying our city a visit with his wife
and two children. The heartfelt prayers of
thousands have often been offered up for him,
for the truthful and noble manner in which he
recorded the acts and sufferings of a devoted
people in their struggles to preserve their
religious liberty. He is on his way to Cali-
fornia, seeking health and recuperation, by
direction of his physician. We regret to learn,
though, that Mrs. Kane contracted a severe
cold on their way this far westward.
	Hon. Jas. G. Blair, of Missouri, Member of
Congress, whose eloquent speech in the Hall of
Representatives, last session, in behalf of the
people, and especially of the women, of Utah,
called forth a letter of acknowledgements from
some of our leading ladies, and a courteous
response from the gentleman, paid a brief visit
to this City lately. If men with such broad,
generous, and liberal views were elected by
every constituency throughout the country,
to represent them in Congress, there would be
no fear of Constitutional provisions being tran-
scended to work persecution, through form of
law, against a people because of their honest
faith and worship.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.
			  ——
	Most Christians set this commandment
down as being too difficult to be reduced to
practice—too utterly fanatic for serious con-
sideration; but, if properly understood, in
its true meaning and intent, they would
recognize one of the most beautiful and
heavenly lessons to mankind.
	It does not enjoin that we “prefer” our
neighbor’s interests to our own, nor even
that we should not help ourselves “first”; but
that we should do all for our neighbors that
we could desire to have done for us under
corresponding circumstances; that we should
be as willing to see them prosper as to pros-
per ourselves; as glad to have them take
pleasure as to be happy ourselves; as well
pleased to hear them well spoken of as to
receive praise for our own merits. This
will not be hard to do when we look at it in
a clear light.
	It is an admitted fact, that a nation’s
honor reflects great lustre on the character
of its humblest citizen; and as a nation’s
honor is individual excellence often repeated,
can it be denied that the man or woman
whose walk in life is patriotic, brave, high-
minded or in any other way noble, so far,
loves his neighbor as himself? How beauti-
ful the arrangement, that to serve one’s self
conscientiously and faithfully, is the very
best way fo serve the public! By the person
who lives a pure life, are neighbors
served beyond compute; for in the sight of
the young, the example is more valuable
than untold gold. The one who originates
any wise, order-producing regulation in
one’s own business or household, has con-
ferred a blessing on the race. Those who
build dwellings which are models of beauty,
economy or convenience, confer benefits on
the public. Those who introduce improve-
ments on the farm, in the dairy or any other
place, have truly loved their neighbors.
And those who most conscientiously and
truly serve the public, do most adequately
and effectually serve themselves! One who
zealously guards the welfare of a country
or community builds the strongest defense
around one’s individual welfare. One who
makes great improvements in public works,
greatly increases the value aud security of
private property. Those who most truly
consider the happiness of their fellow
creatures are most certain to win it for
themselves.
	What better legacy can be left to the
world, than highly educated and purely
moral descendants? And how is it possible
to secure, without danger of failure, a good
education to one’s own descendants, save by
founding institutions and systems for the
broad diffu sion of knowledge, and in-
cluding one’s own in the general blessing?
If you create a deep and wide-spread interest
in the cause of mental cultivation, you erect
a barrier between the public and many an
evil; which evils, had they been allowed to
gain influence might have created an
opposing current strong enough to counter-
act all your labors in behalf of your own, if
confined to them.
	It is almost impossible to keep your
children untainted while those of your
neighbors are not circumspect; for if you
undertake to keep them entirely apart, the
chances are that you will fail miserably In
your design. If you should succeed, it would
be a doubtful gain; because children are
reasonable beings and must know a cause for
any admonition, and to be told that others
were not fit to associate with them, would
engender vanity and superciliousness, two
[new column]
evils quite as hurtful and more lasting than
childish rudeness, and ill-breeding.
	Now what is to be done? “Love thy
neighbor as thyself!” Bear with thy neigh-
bors’ children. Not exactly by making
them bosom friends, but by pitying their un-
tutored, uncherished condition. Pefrain
from speaking of them with unmitigated
disgust and scorn. When you can, without
injury to any one else, throw into their way
some little pleasure coupled with a kind
word, which will be as a beam of light in
their clouded lives. Rest assured they will
be a little better for it. And this is all you
could ask for yonr own in like circum-
stances.
	If you are anxious to have your dear
ones adhere strictly to the rules of temper-
ance, that their nerves may be unshaken,
their intellects untrammeled and all their
faculties fully and harmoniously developed,
be sure there is no more certain way than to
inaugurate a general movement in that
direction; endeavor to make it “the fashion”
to abstain from every kind of stimulant and
every kind of excess. Organize abstemious
associations—with watchwords of modera-
tion.
	The more means and influence a person
possesses, and the more prominent the
position he or she occupies, the more bind-
ing upon that individual is the duty. “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” because the sphere
is wide and the power to do good, greater;
and just in accordance with the use made of
opportunities offered, so shall judgment be
awarded. It has been said and truly, that
character is no more the outgrowth of pri-
vate teaching, than of the spirit of the age
in which it is nurtured. How important,
then, to lend every energy toward shaping
the “spirit of the age” in a healthy
direction! How unselfishly should all pa-
triots labor to leave behind them on the
pages of history, bright precedents for future
statesmen to copy! How earnestly should
parents desire to improve the moral tone of
the society into which their children are to
enter.
	As persuasion is more powerful than
coercion, let the sinner be pointed to the
better way, and taught the beauty of holi-
ness, rather than upbraided and denounced
for his or her short comings; for as the
meanest beggar will not part with his rags
on being told they are foul unless he can
obtain something better, so will not the
erring forsake their errors until convinced
of a better way.
							L. L. D.


TO CLEAN SMOKY PAPER-HANGINGS.--
Take a piece of wood of the shape of a
scrubbing-brush, nail a handle on the back,
then upon the face nail a piece of dried
sheepskin with the wool upon it, or flax or
tow will do, or cotton-flannel of several
thicknesses will answer very well. Dip this
brush into dry whiting, and rub the smoke
lightly with the brush, on the upper parts
of the room first, protecting the carpet with
matting of newspapers, as the whiting-dust
is hard to sweep off a carpet. The whiting
that remains on the wall is easily brushed
off with a soft cloth attached to a stick. It
is very effectual if the room is not damp and
the whiting is dry.


﻿ENJOY THE blessings of this day if God
sends them, and the evils bear patiently
and sweetly, for this day only is ours; we
are dead to yesterday, and are not born to
the morrow.


﻿THE loveliest adornment of perfect
womanhood is unconsciousness of self.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A WORD FROM ST. GEORGE.
				—
	ST. GGORGE, UTAH, NOV. 15, 1872.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Permit me to have a few words with your
numerous and intelligent readers, upon a
topic as old as Eden, and as lovely, fragrant
and interesting as a full blown rose—namely--
	HOME AND FLOWERS.	
I place those words in connection as befng
the dearest among the 40,000 contained in
our natal language. I love flowers, and often
ask myself what is a home “without flow-
ers?” And ask your readers—what sort of
children would those be reared in a home
destitute of flowers? From my stand-point
experience and observation, I will say, they
will lack that chastity of ideas, and that
pleasing refinement of feeling, that gentle-
ness of demeanor, that tenderness and love,
which so much endears the child to its
mother and friends. Children naturally
love flowers, and a little encouragement in
assisting them to plants, seeds, a place to
use them, together with a little advice, and
most children readily become florists.
Flowers yield a fragrance only equalled by
their beauty. Are you sad? go among your
flowers and you at once feel comforted. Are
you excited or angry? go at once amid the
bloom of your garden, gladden your eyes
with the beauties around you, and inhale
the soothing perfumes, and your nerves will
soon become wonderfully calm. Do the
toils, cares, and trials of life bow you down
and discourage? go and commune with
nature’s floral gems, and you are soothed,
comforted and strengthened to go on. Are
you skeptical in regard to divinity and its
attributes? spend a day with the plants and
flowers; with a microscope examine the
beauties of form and color, of the minute
particles that compose them; then ask your-
selves, whence came they? Did you ever
hear profanity uttered by any one admiring
flowers? If so, it has been seldom, for
flowers influence to gentleness, to refine-
ment, to morality, to religion. Flowers are
easily grown. They are but weeds taken
from uncultivated nature in various parts of
the earth. Plant them in your gardens,
along the walks, in your front yards, around
your houses, on porch and veranda, in the
windows of your parlors, kitchens—every-
where that light and heat may reach; let a
pot with some flowering, fragrant, or orna-
mental, plant be placed. The care of these
will assist any lady to while away pleasur-
ably many an idle or spare moment. If
you would rear your children uncontamin-
ated with the vices and crimes learned in
the streets, rear flowers and fruit for them,
and teach them to feel an interest in these;
and provide books and other allurements in
abundance, and your children will stay at
home, and seldom fail to be intelligent and
a comfort. Home and flowers—ever one
and inseperable.					FLORA.


﻿Written for the EXPONENT.
	WOMAN'S SPHERE.
			—
	Any pursuit which is calculated to draw 
the thoughts and interests of women from
the charms of the kitchen, the nursery, the
flower garden, home, altogether, is a falla- 
cious one. The chief object which actuates
the mind to exert itself in preparing paths,
delightful for the feet to walk in, labors
pleasurable for the hands to perform, struc-
tures of whatever nature beautiful for the
eyes to behold or the senses to contemplate,
is that happiness may be secured. Many
of the “strong minded” women of the
present period have wrought within them-
selves the strange belief that the magnifi-
cent pedestal around which are hung the 
pure and lovely adornments of virtuous, in-
nocent, yet intelligent enjoyment, cannot
be erected within the circumscribed cofines
of domestic felicity, But when a home is
what it should be, it possesses all the
elements necessary for providing each of its
inmates with suitable occupations for head
and hands, at least, a portion of the time.
And no woman will ever be more abun-
dantly blessed or the recipient of more real
enjoyment, than she finds herself in filling
faithfully the sphere most wisely and
graciously alloted to her, that of a true wife
and mother; which is at once the most noble,
dignified and graceful position she can
occupy. Ambition may induce her to under-
value that sphere, which she considers un-
worthy her gifted intellectual powers; or
she may be prompted by holier motives, for
regeneration and reform, to leave her bright-
est and best prospects for tranquil happiness
to the care of servants, while she gives her
attention to public concerns. In either case
she will meet with disappointment, and
sooner or later find out her mistake. To
labor publicly under the selfish incitement
of gaining individual popularity, is an un-
wise and undignified course; and woman
is not likely to introduce any great reform-
ation by following man in this respect.
Necessity may some time compel women to
quit their homes and accept situations in
various walks of life mostly filled by men;
but while every position in which a liveli-
hood may be gained by honest industry, is 
ever honorable if honorably filled, no woman’s
time should be so fully occupied, could it
be avoided, in any employment that she
cannot supervise, in some degree, her own
domestic concerns. Many a woman saves
more by her frugal management, in a week,
than several might earn at hard labor in a
month. One bright, cheerful home, with its
healthy, happy inmates will create more
real sun-shine than a dozen hotels and
boarding houses with all their idle, gossip-
ing occupants. Why should woman seek to
become assistant ruler of the nations in any
other sphere, than that of the regulation
and government of the dearest and most
pleasant spot on earth—her home? INEZ.


﻿TO BE free from desire, is money; to be
free from the rage of perpetually buying
something new is a certain revenue; to be
content with what we possess, constitutes
the greatest and most certain of riches.


﻿A REMARKABLE  case of catalepsy oc-
curred last week at Fort Wayne, Indiana.
A little girl, three years old, was supposed
to have died, and every preparation for the
funeral was made two days thereafter.
While the funeral services were in progress,
and the body of the child was about to be
conveyed to the tomb, the supposed corpse
revived, and to the great surprise and joy of
mourning friends the child was again re-
stored to life, and has now fully recovered.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first boy mentioned in the Bible—
Chap. I.
	Kittens are superseding lap-dogs for
street-wear.
	Lady ushers are the latest wrinkle for
fashionable weddings in New York.
	The latest medical mania in France is an
almost exclusive diet of water cresses.
	Kellogg’s dresses in “La Traviata” are
magnificent, and were made by Worth.
	Bret Harte’s father was formerly Princi-
pal of the Hudson (New York) Academy.
	Little Raven, the Arapahoe, has a head
ust like Beecher’s and is an eloquent orator.
	The present Czar of Russia is so in-
temperate that his physicians say he cannot
live many months.
	Prince Leopold, Queen Victoria’s young-
est son, will commence a course of study at
Oxford this October term.
	In the long course of his legal practice
Mr. Seward was never known to act for
a man against a woman.
	Froude safely passed those two dreaded
bugaboos of the ocean voyage—Hell’s Gate
and the newspaper interviewer.
	John Parker, who at one time had the
reputation of being the fastest type setter
in Texas, died lately in Huntsville.
	The late Benjamin Abbott of Boston, left;
bequests amounting to over $80,000, of
which $10,000 went to the Universalists.
	Mrs. Joseph Spinney has given $20,000
for the construction of a Methodist chapel
at Great Neck, L. I., and $10,000 for its
maintenance.
	Ex-Governor Magoffin, of Kentucky, has
discovered and entered as Government land
an island in Lake Superior, containing about
1,200 acres of good land.
	Mrs. Partington has been reading the
health officers’ weekly reports, and thinks
“total” must be an awful malignant disease,
since as many die of it as of all the rest put
together.
	Horace B. Claflin, the New York dry
goods prince, once insisted on paying $50,000
revenue tax in addition to the regular
assessment, believing that amount was
honestly due the Government.
	Mrs. Chapman and Mrs. Chassellette,
widows of the engineer and fireman who
were killed on the Erie Railway by the
negligence of the train dispatcher in tele-
graphing, have each recovered over $5,000
damages against the Erie Railway.
	Thiers ordinarily dresses in a suit of
black broadcloth, frock coat and decidedly
ancient trousers. He wears an old-fash-
ioned New England high shirt collar, and
invariably carries an umbrella or cane, upon
which he leans while shuffling along the
boulevard.	
	At a trades’ meeting the following toast
was given: “The printer—he beats the
farmer with his hoe, the carpenter with his
rule, the mason in setting up columns; he
surpasses the lawyer and doctor in attend-
ing cases, and beats the parson in the
management of the devil.”
	Cleopatra’s Needle is to be removed from
Alexandria to London. This obelisk origin-
ally stood at Heliopolis, and was brought
down to Alexandria by one of the Caesars
and was, in 1852, presented by Mohammed
Ali to the British Government. It is seventy
feet high, and at the base is seven feet
seven inches in diameter.


﻿KING SMITH.—A notable personage has just 
died—Mr. Augustus Smith, King of the Scilly
Islands, of which there are 140, although
only six are inhabited. Mr. Smith was a 
wealthy and crotchety Englishman, who 
in regard to government had notions of his
own which he wished to carry into practice, 
and so he became lessee of the Scilly Islands, 
under the County of Cornwall. He thus be- 
came king of about two thousand subjects, 
most of whom were a wretched lot of
peasants, for the islands are poor and unfruit-
ful. With a court of twelve men he ruled
the land, readjusted the relations of land and
people, and attended generally to their moral,
social, and religious status, although in the 
latter item he was not very strict.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ADVICE TO A YOUNG BROTHER.
				——
	Do not be anxious to leave the dear ones
to whom you are indebted for your mortal
existence, as long as you can earn and ob-
tain a livelihood by clinging to them. There
will be time enough in which you may
learn to do without them, when you can no
longer avoid being thus thrust upon your
own resources. Do not imagine that because
your father is not a rich man and cannot
afford to support you without work, and
send you to the high school, you cannot be-
come educated and wise and great. The
worfd is full of knowledge, and there is no
lack of books and periodicals, which treat on
all the arts and sciences. The gaining of
wisdom is within the reach of all. For God
did not create His children to be drones,
and yet He requires nothing of them that
He does not find means for their obtaining.
Application is all that is necessary to make
a mind bright, reflective and intellectual.
Do not think too much of amassing wealth
and makinga “big show” in the world. Riches
cannot purchase happiness. They may help
to augment it, but are frail supports, liable
to slip away at any moment, and hopes and
aspirations which are built upon them are
in constant danger of being dashed to the
ground. Your safest, surest way of erecting
a defense against misfortune and want is in
learning a useful trade. Do not imagine
that because the hands of a clerk are soft
and white, while yours are hardened with
labor, and sun-burnt, that people of sense or
even good taste admire him and scorn you.
Remember that but for the energies of the
tradesmen, there would be no store-rooms
built, and no goods to store. Honor your
position in society and it will be honorable.
Always treat others with proper respect, and
you will be respectable and respected. Be
temperate in all your habits, and you will
never need to be troubled with doctor’s bills.
Be strictly honest in all you dealings and you
will always find better use for you money
than paying lawyers’ fees. Be virtuous and
industrious, and you will become wealthy
and great. Love God and serve Him, and
you will always be happy.
									L.


﻿WOMEN’S FOREHEADS.
				  ——
	When phrenology first began to attract
attention as a science, high foreheads of
women, as well as of men, were associated
with intellect.
	Every member of the opposite sex, how-
ever dull or uncultivated she may be,
admires mental gifts, and has no objection
to the reputation of possessing them herself;
consequently she determined to have the
seeming, if not the reality, and stripped her
forehead of the clustering tresses, and even
removed the hair by artificial means, that
she might present a front which would
awake the enthusiasm of Gall or Spurzheim.
	For a number of years this mania for
high foreheads raged in spite of the patent
fact that they detracted from their feminine
loveliness, giving it a hard, bold, masculine
expression that should be sedulously avoided.
All the classic models of beauty, whether in
marble or on canvas, from the Venus and
Phyrne down to the Marys of Raphael and
the Magdaleus of Murillo, the picturesque
damsels of the Campagna, and the classic
Suliote maidens, instead of high have quite
low foreheads—something our own women
would seem at last to have discovered.
	Horace, and Catullus, and Ovid all sang of
the fair, fond creatures whose white fore-
heads gleamed like the crescent moon be-
neath the dark cloud of silken hair.


﻿Artists have so painted feminine beauty.
Men of taste and gallantry have admitted
such. Phrenology has ceased to be connected
with aesthestic subjects, and therefore we
have returned to nature and art. Indeed,
the passion now is rather for low foreheads,
for hair over the temples, and lovelocks
that shade the lustre of deep eyes.
	This is rather overdone—but it is prefer-
able to lofty foreheads and stripped brows,
that make the face more fitting for a Roman
senator than a genteel, tender, womanly
woman. Every man of taste must rejoice
that something like an approximation to
the old models and correct standard of femi-
nine loveliness has been established, and
they are no longer painted with
	“High white fronts that tell of power
	Which ne’er is fashioned by the gentle heart."


﻿Aged beauty.—Some one writes of the
beauty of old people. Who of us but have
seen this beauty, perchance upon an aged
grandmother, perhaps upon a mother ripen-
ing for Heaven, catching the radiance of
celestial glory ere they departed. He says:
“Lord Lytton speaks in one of his novels of
a man who was uglier than he had any
business to be; and if he could but read it,
every human being carries his life in his face,
and is good looking or the reverse as that
life has been good or evil. On our features
the fine chisel of thought and emotion are
eternally at work. Beauty is not the mon-
opoly of blooming young men and of pink
and white maidens. There is a slow-grow-
ing beauty which only comes to perfection
in old age. Grace belongs to no period of
life and goodness improves the longer it
exists. I have seen sweeter smiles from a lip
of seventy than upon a lip of seventeen.
There is the beauty of youth and the beauty 
of holiness—a beauty much more seldom
met and more frequently found in the arm-
chair by the fire, with grandchildren around
its knee. Husband and wife, who have
fought the world side by side, who have made
common stock of joy and sorrow and grown
aged together, are not unfrequently found
curiously alike in pitch and tone of voice—
just as twin Pebbles on the beach, exposed
to the same tidal influences, are each other’s
second self. he has gained a feminine some-
thing, which brings his manhood into full
relief. She has gained a masculine some-
thing which acts as a foil to her woman-
hood.”—Ex.


﻿The evil done by the first utterer of a
slander is small compared with that which
is spread through a community from the re-
petition of the false tale by idle babblers.
These persons would fain excuse themselves
by alleging that they had heard it from Hr.
So and-so, a Mrs. Such-a-one, or they shelter
themselves under the common generalities
of “people say,” or “they say.” Counter-
feited coins and bank-notes, however ingen-
iously executed, do no harm if they remain
in the hands of the original forger. It is by
their circulation that the people suffer.
Somebody once said to a sage: “A man
slandered you in my presence.” “If,”
replied the wise man, “you had not listened
with pleasure, he would not have defamed
me.” The remark was a just one.


﻿This is the way St. Louis ’squires aid suf-
fering young people, according to the
“Democrat:” “A loving couple called on
Justice Jecko to get married. On examina-
he learned the girl was not yet 18, and he
told her to go up street to another justice,
and by the time she reached there she would
probably be old enough. Upon this hint the
lovers brightened up, and on the next trial
accomplished their purpose.”


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	One of Fanny Fern's daughters lives at
St. Paul.
	Three English ladies recently achieved
the ascent of Mont Blanc, and had a trium-
phant recption on their return.
	Laura Sainz, Marchioness of Patayama,
late lady-in-waiting to Queen Isabella, is
making a fortune on the lyric stage in Italy.
	For domestic reasons, Kate Fields will be
unable to lecture in the West at all this sea-
son, and will be obliged to curtail the
number of her engagements in the East.
	“I'm not used to begging,” said a little
girl to a lady of whom she had asked alms,
“ ’cause only two weeks ago my father was
a merchant!”
	"Why, child, how could you be reduced
to poverty so soon?”
	“My father took a bad two-dollar bill at
his peanut-stand, and it ruined him,” sob-
bed the child.
	When a child, Pauline Lucea manifested
such a decided taste for drawing as well as
for music, that for a while her mother was
disposed to let the former inclination prevail.
She took daily lessons in drawing, but was
also allowed to go on with her vocal studies.
She made wonderful progress in the use of
her pencil, yet such was her proficiency in
singing that very soon there was no question
that her true vocation was music.
	“It is a fact,” says Mr. Scudamore, “that
a telegraph clerk in London, who was
engaged on a wire to Berlin, formed an
acquaintance with, and an attachment to a
female clerk who worked on the same wire
in Berlin, that he made a proposal to her
and that she accepted him without having
seen him. They were married, and the
marriage resulting from their electric affini-
ties is supposed to have turned out as well
as those in which the senses are apparently
concerned.”
	There was a social meeting, of five elderly
ladies, sisters, at Concord, at the residence
of R. N. Rice, son of one of them, the
“youngest” of the five being a “greatgrand-
mother,” and their combined ages reaching
three hundred and ninety years, averaging
about eighty years. By arrangement, they
were got together from different parts of
the State, and their re-union under one roof
was as happy an event as it was unexpected
to all of them, they not having been together
for about twenty years.
	Mrs. Florida White, well known in the
fashionable world forty years ago, was one of
the most beautiful, accomplished, elegant
and attractive women of her day. She was
the daughter of Gen. Adair, of Kentucky,
and her first husband was Joseph M. White,
the second delegate sent to Congress from
the Territory of Florida. Highly educated,
full of genius, her society was courted by
the most elevated circles in Washington,
New Orleans, New York and Boston. She
was a brilliant conversationalist, ready and 
effective at repartee, and a sincere, warm-
hearted gentlewoman of the most gracious
and generous impulses. On one of her visits
to Rome she was presented to the Pope.
	“Kneel, my daughter,” said he, as she
stood erect in her imperial grace before
him. All kneel to me except the daughters
of sovereigns.”
	“I am a princess in my own right, Your
Holiness,” she replied.
	“How can that be, when you are an
American born?” “In my country the people
are sovereign, and I am a daughter of the 
people.”
	The Pope smiled a gracious assent, rejoin- 
ing, “Then receive an old man’s blessing.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A﻿ PRIZE!

	Should be in every housel
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other.
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price. 
							DUNFORD & SONS,
									Salt Lake City.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
	Office Second-South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,.
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street, 

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons,
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

Campbell & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.
				
				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON
							St. George, Utah.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.	
	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
