VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1873.	NO. 16.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     —
	THE "EPIZOOTIC" has reached Denver, 
Colorado. 	That is getting uncomfortably
near. 
	AN EASTERN paper says Susan B. An-
thony stands up for her rights like a man;
and considers it a compliment. 
	ITALY CONTINUES to reduce the number
of her brigands and professional murderers
by sending them as emigrants to the United
States. 
	PARDONING CONVICTS has become a popu-
lar pastime for State governors. The
goveror of Ohio was asked the other day to
pardon a batch of three hundred at a sitting,
but he took time to think it over.
	TWO EXPEDITIONS are to start simultan-
eously from England for extreme opposite
points; one to attempt the discovery of the
North Pole, and the other the South Pole.
They are likely to find something; ice, cer-
tainly, if nothing of greater public interest
	BARNUM HAD his great menagerie and
circus destroyed by fire in New York, and
immediately telegraphed to Europe for half
a million dollars worth of curiosities. Three
times burned out, he rises each time with
the occasion—and gets the newspapers to
tell of it. Shrewd advertising.
	THE ILLINOIS State woman’s suffrage
association will assist Susan B. Anthony in
her trial by every means in their power.
They consider the indignity to which she
has been subjected, in being imprisoned
because of casting her ballot as an American
citizen, as offered to the entire women of
America.
	AN ORDINANCE was introduced in the St.
Louis City Council, to repeal what is known
as the "Social Evil” act, under which fallen
women are licensed to pursue their fearful
traffic; and it was almost unanimously re-
jected. An ordinance requiring men who
patronize the places and persons thus
licensed, to be also licensed, would have
been rejected as unanimously. Such is a
specimen of governing “justice.”
	THE DRIVER of a New York street car,
seeing a young girl grossly insulted by a
ruffian, a couple of weeks ago, and noticing
that neither the passengers nor the con-
ductor interfered, stopped his car, thrashed
the scoundrel, threw him into the street,
and gave him in charge of a policeman.
That car-driver should have a monument,
subscribed for by defenceless ladies who
know what it is to be insulted by “gentle-
men” of the stamp that he punished so
promptly and justly. 
	ICE GORGES, in some parts of the eastern
rivers, such as the Missouri and Ohio, hav-
ing collected during the terrible storm
which raged in the latter part of December;
in their breaking up with a cessation of the
extreme cold, did immense damage in
several places, sweeping away docks, crush-
ing down coal barges, and crashing through
river steamers. Over half a million dollars
worth of property was thus destroyed in the
last eight days of December. This might
be reckoned among “the signs of the times.”
	IT IS reported that a Connecticut clergy-
man has resigned because his pious flock
[new column]
wouldn't let him play croquet. If he wished
to make a woman or “a tall girl” of himself,
why not let him? Or did they think that a
little healthy muscular exercise would drive
away misanthropic feelings, and that he
would not be able to picture the nethermost
pit with sufficiently harrowing vividness to
suit them, if he indulged in a game of
croquet?
	“SPEAK NOT thou evil of dignitaries” is
the rule to be observed in the French re-
public. A man in Lyons, some little time
ago, called Thiers “a stupid fool," and he
was promptly “jerked up” and sent to
prison. Had this rule of swift punishment
been followed during the late Presidential
campaign in this country, there is scarcely
sufficient hemp in the Union to have made
ropes enough for the necks of those who
would have had to be hanged. France is a
unique republic, of the old Venetian stripe.
	AN EASTERN paper—the Washington
“Star”—under date December 27, 1872,
says: “Sidney Rigdon, author of the Mor-
mon Bible, is dead.” It will be news to the
Latter-day Saints to learn that Sidney Rig-
don was the author of the Old and New
Testament, which form the “Mormon
Bible;” or that he was the author of the
“Book of Mormon,” which is probably what
is meant; or, indeed, that he was the
author of any really good book, although he,
at one time, held a high position in the
Church, but fell from grace through ambi-
tion, as did Lucifer.
	PLANT TREES. Thirty years ago, says an
exchange, Mrs. Lydia Wilson, of Raisin,
Michigan, stuck a willow-riding whip in
the ground and now it measures ten feet in
circumference and spreads over eighty-four
feet. Plant trees; fruit trees; shade trees, mul
berry trees to feed silk worms, or forest trees.
You leave a blessing to posterity which they
will appreciate in years to come. The
Oriental custom of planting a fruit tree on
the birth of each child is one that could be
adopted in the western world to advantage,
and no place to greater advantage than in
Utah; for our timber in the mountains is 
fast disappearing.	
	SIX GIRLS and a boy were the victims of
the Centre street fire, New York; roasted
alive; yet their bodies were allowed to re-
main for nearly a week under the ruins, in
the most populous city in the country,
because the authorities did not know who
would pay the expense of having the ruins
removed, and the lessees of the building
would not touch it for fear of injuring their
insurance. How intensely humane and
charitable New Yorkers have grown, where
a little money is involved!	This disgrace-
ful action of the police authorities and the
lessees of the burned building, should be
repudiated in some manner by the city, or
the odium will rest upon all.
	FIFTEEN WOMEN were brought before a
United States Commissioner in the State of
New York, charged with illegal voting, and
held to bail: That is, fourteen were so held,
and furnished the required security; but
the other, Miss Susan B. Anthony, refused
to furnish the bail, and was remanded to
prison. Now, the question at issue, is, does
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution
[new column]
confer upon women the right of suffrage
without State or Congressional enactments,
or the passage of a 16th Amendment to the
Constitution? As well-read lawyers and
as clever jurists as General B. F. Butler and
others hold that it does; and this Miss An-
thony declares her determination to test.
From the rapid advance made, towards
securing the recognition of this right to
women, during the past year, and the frank,
open manner in which it is advocated by
prominent men throughout the country,
there is little doubt that, whether, Miss
Anthony should succeed in this effort or not,
public sentiment would oppose her being
punished, and that in 1876 women in nearly
if not all the States, will vote for President
and Vice-President.
 A NEW United States District Attorney
has been appointed for Utah, in the person
of William Carey, of Galena, Illinois, and his
appointment was confirmed by the United
States Senate on the 8th inst. The rabid
anti-Mormons look for special legislation by
Congress against the Latter-day Saints, to
follow immediately, and that all their
desires for the destruction of those, who
settled and made this Territory what it is,
will be gratified; and yet they talk about
Christianity and profess belief in God and
in the Scriptures, while gloating, in antici-
pation, over scenes of desolation and blood-
shed brought upon an innocent, God-fearing
community! But there is an old French
proverb that will apply: “l’homme propose,
et Dieu dispose”—man proposes, and God
disposes. They have felt equally as san-
guine before, only to be disappointed as they
will be again. There are two other little
proverbs they might study to advantage;
one is, that “truth crushed to earth will
rise again;” the other, that “the blood of
the martyrs is the seed of the church.” Let
“Mormonism” alone and it will grow; perse-
cute it, and it will grow tenfold faster.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	A VETERINARY surgeon who lives at
Buffalo, N. Y., lately tried to “founder” his
mother-in-law by dancing a polka with her
until she got warmed up, and then giving
her all the iced lemonade she could drink.
	THE indolent habits of the Orientals are
well illustrated by the following “bon mot,”
which in the regions of the East has
assumed the character of an adage: “No
man should run when he may walk, walk
when he may stand, stand when he may
sit, or sit when he may lie down.”
	ALWAYS pleasant is a compliment to edi-
torial ears. “I saw three excellent things
in your last paper ” said a wag to an editor.
“Ah, indeed! what were they?” inquired
the delighted knight of the quill. “Mince
pies,” replied the wag, who escaped the
paste-pot by slipping out of the door. 
	A JOLLY fisherman was asked in the
presence of a spinster, what sort of a wife
he would choose, if he were going to marry,
to which he promptly replied “An 'Ale-
wife.’ ” The spinster increased the merri-
ment which this occasioned by dryly adding,
“I like wine best, and should prefer a
grape ‘Husband-man.’”


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the EXPONENT.
		PRAYERFUL CONFESSION.

	O God, when grief and pain beset,
	When hope and joy my soul forget,
		I bring my woe to Thee;
	I come to Thee and humbly pray
	That Thou wilt smooth my thorny way,
		And bid my sorrows flee.

	I ne’er forget to breathe Thy name,
	When o’er my pathway grief and shame
		In dreary darkness brood;
	I cry to Thee when in distress,
	Ask Thee to lift from off my breast
		Its weary, weary load,

	But when Thou healest all my woe,
	And when my soul is all aglow
		With golden beams of peace,
	My fickle heart, contented well
	'Mid transient gayeties to dwell,
		Bids all devotion cease.

	Dear Lord! assist my feeble faith,
	That not alone it prove its worth
		'Neath sorrow's blighting dew—
	That not alone I seek for aid,
	When treading paths of fearful shade,
		But make me grateful too.
								  LU DALTON,


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				  —
			  BEAVER, Dec. 22nd, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	We send you a brief sketch of the Relief
Society in Beaver. It was organized Janu-
ary 11th, 1868 and since that time has been
steadily and constantly struggling on in our
humble sphere. We have bought a lot on
a block northwest of the public square; fenced
it; and built a house on it to meet in for
work, and to instruct and be instructed,
which has been dedicated and held sacred
for that purpose, with the exception of a day
school being taught in it about five months.
Our deeds of charity commenced in our
own city, and were extended to our sisters
on the Muddy, who were burned out; to the
Emigration fund, and to snndry other calls.
We have two shares in the Co-operative
store, have donated to the St. George
Temple, and intend to continue until it is
completed, that we may reap the reward of
our labors therein. Our exact reciepts and
disbursments I am not in possession of. On
November 17th the Society met, according
to previous appointment, when a vote was
taken to drop the word “Female,” from our
Society’s name which was carried unanimous-
ly. That our labors may be directed in the
right channel, and the right spirit attend them
is our humble desire. May God bless the
Editor of the Exponent, and all who con-
tribute to its columns; may their pens be
inspired, that the world may know that we
are not the “down-trodden” women that we
are represented to be! The Gospel has made
us free, free as the pure air we breathe in
our Mountain Home! May we ever defend
its pure principles!
				MRS. LUCINDA HOUD,
							President.
				MRS. RUTH TYLER,
					"  JANE FILLIS
							Counselors.
				    —
				Fillmore City,
				     December 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Our Society was reorganized on the 20th
of July, 1870, Caroline Callister, President;
Delilah Olson and Melissa Samson Coun-
selors. The latter removing to her former
home, in Salt Lake City, Belinda Pratt was
chosen to fill her place. A spirit of union
exists among us, and we are trying to the
best of our knowledge to fill the mission
which has been assigned us.
	At a recent meeting the word “Female,”
in connection with “Society,” was dropped
[new column]
by a unanimous vote as suggested by sister
E. R. Snow. Our finances are as follows:
	Aggregate receipts, $1,360; disbursments,
$460. We have invested eighteen shares of
twenty-five dollars each in the Co-operative
store; three shares in the Stock herd, and
the balance consists in building material,
articles of clothing, etc.
	We hold meetings regularly semi-monthly,
and we intend during the "winter to increase
our means as far as possible for the further-
ance of our building, which we have com-
menced for the benefit of our Society.
Your very interesting paper is highly
appreciated by those who subscribe for it,
and is gaining great favor as it becomes
circulated. We are just sending a list of
new subscribers and we will do all we can
to sustain it.
					Delilah Olson.
				 —
		1st Ward, Salt Lake City,
					December 25th, 1872.
Dear Editor:—
	We will never forget the lessons received
at our last Relief Society meeting. Surely
kind angels ministered unto us, and the
Spirit of God was in our midst. Sympathy
with human suffering is certainly increased
in the hearts of the sisters through these
meetings being held. And is there ought
else that distinguishes man from the beasts
that perish, so much as that eternal principle
of fellow feeling? True, we find sympathy
among the beasts of the field and forest; that
sympathy which exists in nature’s self
between parent and offspring; that quality
than which there is no deeper, higher or
holier attribute, which extends from the
bosom of nature’s God throughout the whole
of His vast creation. But the difference
manifested, to which I refer, is in the finer,
stronger grade of sympathy which reason
awakens, and which the realizing sense of
our own weaknesses, our own liabilities to
err, helps us to exercise for all mankind.
It is this that kindles in our souls the in-
finite desire to see the nations of the earth
repent and turn from their wickedness, that
they may have peace and joy and eternal
life. And it is this which makes us grieve
that in our beautiful city, even here, we
behold the degradation and hopeless condi-
tion of our fallen sisters, whom, were it in
our power, we would raise up to new, bright
life and trust and blessedness. Does it not
belong to us and to the cause we have
espoused, by our sympathies to divide the
sorrows of others and to double their joys?
And sympathy excites to action—we lean
not on faith without works. We would
extend the hand as well as the voice of
charity to all who are in need, and who are
not so blinded by their ignorance as to re-
ject our proffered aid. 
Your visits here have done a great deal of
good. May God bless you in your endeavors
to promote His glorious cause—the cause of.
eternal truth. 
			Truly yours,
				Elizareth Harrison.
				  —
				Salt Lake City, Utah,
						January 8th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The following brief report of our Annual
Meeting, held December 18th, should have
reached you in time for your last issue, but
a multiplicity of causes prevented; yet,
remembering the old maxim of “better late
than never,” I send it now, trusting you
will excuse.
	Several invited guests were present,
among whom were Elder John Taylor and
our bishop, Brother Thomas Taylor, both of
[new column]
whom addressed us in a most pleasing and 
instructive manner.
	Our Quarterly and Yearly Reports were
presented after which a brief summary of
the doings of the Society, since its organiza-
tion, was read.
	We have now been organized five years,
and our esteemed President, Mrs. M. I
Horne, has deemed it proper to give a slight
summary of our labors, etc., during that
time.
	We have had on our books over two hun-
dred names, still our average attendance
has not been above seventy-five.
	We have labored under many disadvan-
tages, and our succes demonstrates what
may be accomplished by the united, indi-
fatigable efforts of a few.
	We have administered to the poor in
every case which has been brought to our
notice, to the extent of our means; and
have furnished suitable burial clothes for
some six or eight persons. We have also
held a Fair which proved quite a success.
We have assisted to erect our building at a
cost of $2,354, which is now owned by the
Relief Society, except about $500. Our
donations have amounted to $2,013:19(1/2), of
which $l,206:73(1/2) have been distributed to
the poor. We have also collected and paid
into the P. E. Fund $264:50, and made and
donated to the Tabernacle twent-six and one
half yards of rug carpet.
	I think we can truly report that our
Society has accomplished much good, and is
still in a flourishing condition.
		Elmina S. Taylor, Secretary.
				—
		American Fork, Jan. 7th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a recent meeting held in this place,
Mrs. Mary Hindley presiding, a unanimous
vote was taken to dispense with the word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. We had long thought it a
superfluous prefix.
	Our Society has done well so far. The
sick and needy are cared for and supplied
with the necessaries of life. We have a full
share in the Provo woolen factory, two
shares in the Co-operative store, a building
lot, also a lot, five rods by eleven, planted
with mulberry; besides having donated to
the Emigration Fund and other laudable
institutions.
	The sisters still desire to go on in this
great and good work, that they nmay ot only
be blessed themselves but prove a blessing
to all with whom they are connected, in
the building up of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth.
		    Mary Hindley, President. 
E. Eastmond, Secretary.
				—
	The General Retrenchment meettng in
Salt Lake City, was held January 4th, 1873.
Singing; prayer by Counselor Mrs. Zina D.
Young; Singing: Minutes of last meeting
were read by the Secretary, Miss Mary A 
Jenkins, and accepted. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard read the Revelation given
to the Prophet Joseph Smith, on Celestial
Marriage. President Mrs. I. Horne wished
the sisters all a happy New Year, and hoped
that the ending of the year might find all
farther advanced in usefulness, wisdom and
goodness than its beginning does. Thought
the Revelation just read was appropriate,
and believed that the law of Celestial mar-
riage might be properly classed as a principle
belonging to physiology. She had not read
the Revelation for some time herself, and
felt benefitted from listening to it; her
memory was strengthened and she felt well
concerning plural marriage. She had lived
in it a good while, and had always got along


first-rate; had no desire to shun any trial
calculated to purify and exalt. Hoped the
present year might prove the brightest and
best of their lives.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard said she had
enjoyed the reading of the Revelation.
They should be charitable one towards an-
other, and say and do all in their power to
aid and encourage, as none were exempt
from trial; and seek also to govern them-
selves, for if they gave way to the Tempter,
they would become fretful, grumbling,
miserable creatures. Mothers should speak
plainly to their daughters, teaching them
to shield, honor and maintain their glory,
as true daughters of Zion. If they neglected
seeking to the Lord for guidance, they would
very soon be left to themselves, which was
a fearful fate.
	Mrs. Harriet Cook Young said she felt at
home among her sisters, though circum-
stances had prevented her meeting with them
for some time. On the obedience which
they render to the law of Celestial Marriage
depended, not only their own salvation, but
that of their children, and indeed, of the
whole human family to some extent. Those
who enter not into the Celestial law in this
life, cannot obtain a Celestial glory hereafter,
but will be servants to others, who, through
obedience and faithfulness have become
rulers themselves, and lawful heirs in the
Celestial Kingdom. As mothers and
daughters in Israel, how were they bearing
their portions? They should study the dis-
positions of their children, the circumstances
under which they were begotten, and try to
understand how best to instruct and influence
them.
	Counselor Mrs. B. W. Smith thought
they should be ever watchful and prayerful,
as the records of their lives were probably
of their own keeping; and from them they
would be judged, whether they be good or
evil. It was well to view the bright side
of a picture, and not anticipate trouble.
	Mrs. Howe said she could not speak
scientifically on physiology, but she believed
the law of Celestial marriage to be the only
principle upon which they could be exalted,
or the nations of the earth obtain salvation.
	Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young said she
hoped that they might accomplish more
good in the present year than they had
ever before done. She heard an outsider
remark that when a Mormon apostatized he
went to nothing, for there was more reason
and sound philosophy in Mormonism than
in all the wisdom of the world beside.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 
				——
	We are often asked for a prescription for
preternaturally wakeful persons. The “high
pressure” principle on which many of our
business men work their brains and abuse
their bodies, begets an irritable condition of
the nerves, and a morbid state of mind, very
antagonistic to quiet and refreshing sleep.
Such persons will often go to bed weary
and exhausted, but cannot sleep; or sleep
dreamily and fitfully; or lie awake for hours,
unable to sleep at all. We have tried many
experiments to induce sleep with more or
less success, and have read many recipes
which proved better in theory than in prac-
tice. The very best method we have yet
discovered is that of counting. Breathe
deeply and slowly (without any straining
effort) and, with every expiration, count,
one, two, three, etc., up to a hundred. Some
persons will be asleep before they can count
fifty in this manner. Others will count ten,
twenty, and thirty and then forgot them-
[new column]
selves and cease counting. In such cases
always commence at once. Very few per-
sons can count a hundred and find themselves
awake; but should this happen repeat the 
dose until cured. — "Waverly."
	Brown Bread. —One pint of sour milk,
one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of
soda, and graham flour to make it a little 
stiffer than cake.
	Spoiled Dairy Produce.—Within the
last year we have had occasion to note
several instances where butter, cheese and
meat have been injured or spoiled from no
apparent cause unless by the impurity of the
salt used.
	Loaf Cake Doughnuts.—One cup of
sugar, one-half cup of milk, one cup of yeast,
spices and salt to taste. Stir as stiff as pos-
sible with a spoon and let it rise as bread,
then mould them up and cut, and let rise
an hour, or till they seem light, by the fire.
	Cure for Bone Felon.—The following
is said to be a good remedy for this cause of
suffering: “Take common rock salt, such as
is used for salting down pork or beef, dry it
in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with
spirits of turpentine in equal parts. Put in
a rag and wrap it around the parts affected,
and as it gets dry put on more, and in
twenty-four hours you are cured; the felon
is dead.”
	This led to various experiments, which
have fully proven the presence of sulphur in
much of the salt used throughout this Terri-
tory. Salt may be purified from the sulphur
it contains, by heat;—place the salt in a
dripping-pan, say about an inch or so deep;
place it in an oven under a hot fire and the
sulphur will evaporate, or it may be roasted
out on top of a hot stove or over a fire. No
salt should be used for fresh meat, butter, or-
cheese without testing it in this way, There
has been a loss of many hundreds of pounds
of dairy and butcher produce, the present
season within the range of our knowledge,
where salt both from Salt Lake and the mines
towards the Colorado has been used. One
dairyman east of this place, alone lost nearly
a ton of butter and cheese.—“Utah Pomol-
ogist.”
	Wearing Flannel.—Put it on at once,
winter or summer, nothing better can be
worn next to the skin than a loose red flan-
nel shirt—“loose,” for it has room to move
on the skin, thus causing a titillation which
draws the blood to the surface and keeps it
there; and, when that is the case, no one
can take cold; “red,” for white flannel fulls
up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff,
heavy, and impervious. Cotton merely ab-
sorbs the moisture from the surface, while
flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits
it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from
which the cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its
nearer exposure to the exterior air it is soon
dried without injury to the body. Having
these properties, red woolen is worn by
sailors even in midsummer of the hottest
countries. Wear a thinner material in sum-
mer.—“Hall's Journal of health.”


[FOR THE EXPONENT.
	LIFE.

	The other day a poor man was thus con-
soling himself on future prospects. “Well”
said he, “I shall, eventually be as well off as
any of them; for, if this life is all—if when
we come to die, that really is the end of our
existence, the richest man can only have a
quiet resting-place beneath the sod, and that
I shall have as well. My bed will be as soft
and smooth as his. But if there is a future
life, there I shall come in for a much hand-


somer share than some of these lucky rascals,
whose wives look down on mine now, will
ever be able to obtain."
	Now, are not the majority of mankind
laboring under grave mistakes in rushing
through life, as though to build themselves 
up regardless of the wants of the rest of the
world, was their chief aim, and the one great
object for which they were created? Why
not make the most and best of life as we go
along, taking things calmly and quietly?
Not to sit down with folded hands, as if to
eat and drink were the only real comforts
we should seek for in life. But in looking
about us, find blessedness in blessing others;
living not for self alone, but for the good we
may do. There is no true satisfaction in
anything else. We may gain riches, power
and influence, but unless they are wisely
made use of for the benefit of mankind, as
well as for our own, they are but sources of
anxiety and care, and the soul starves for
want of pleasurable fruits upon which to
feast. If, as the poor man said, this life is
all, it is wisdom to enjoy it as much as
possible while it lasts, and not spoil all its
sweetness by running wild after the vain
things of earth. But, trusting that there is
a glorious future awaiting the wise and just,
it is worth while to prepare for the reception 
and appreciation of such a hereafter by 
living this life as wisely, justly, and cheer-
fully as we can.
								L.


﻿[For the Exponent.
			DEBT OF GRATITUDE.
	What’s this that romance repeats so often?
A brave, handsome, young fellow, honest as
the day is long, and twice as generous, risks
his own life to save that of a surpassingly
lovely and divinely beautiful maiden; whose
sweet voice and sweeter disposition at once
win the ardent, deep and deathless devotion
of her gallant preserver. Gratitude, and a
sudden reciprocity of hitherto unawakened
affections, pure as the “beautiful snow,”
which was going to bury her in a terrific
slide, had not our hero interfered; or, per-
haps mighty and ceaseless as the huge
stream of water in which she must have been
drowned but for his timely approach and
adventurous dexterity in rescuing her,
makes her his own forever. But I have
something else to say about causes for grati-
tude. What great thing is it, after all, for
one person to save the life of another? That
might cost but the exertion of a moment,
and is an act which common respect for
humanity would prompt any individual to
perform. A wretch may render services in
saving the life of an innocent child; and I
admit for the good he does he should be
thanked and rewarded. But still that isn’t
anything like stopping at home, doing the
work and letting some one else go to a
Christmas and New Year’s jollification.
Should it awaken half the gratitude, since it
calls not for half the sacrifice? Then, there
are other tokens of lasting love and generous
fidelity to be brought in. Think of a
family’s going without butter for a week, for
the sake of sparing to a favored one, the
new milk wanted for two days. Should
such things be forgotten? Get out with
your fated maidens and life preserving
heroes! For my part, I’d rather spend one
happy, happy week of holidays, than to risk
my life a dozen times for the sake of having
it saved; and am really more grateful to my
dear, good friends whose friendship proves
itself continuously, than I ever could be for
one deed of humanity.
							Frank.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

 				LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman's Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	An American lady in Rome has a school
of two hundred pupils......£400 has been
contributed to the sufferers from the late in-
undations in Italy, by Queen Victoria......
The combined fortunes of Horace Greeley’s
daughters is estimated at $100,000.....The
Queen of Holland is said to be a good
French schollar, a successful writer, a hater
of the Germans, and a firm supporter of the
Bonapartes......A railroad was voted against
by the people of Jasper county, Mississippi,
lest the deer should be frightened away by
the locomotive......Stokes’ counsel tried to
prove that Fisk shot and would have stab-
bed himself, but was prevented from the
latter by the presence of Irwin.......Salem,
Oregon, has the measles, and prospects of a
new woolen factory......About a third of a
percussion cap would be anything but
an agreeable visitant in the eye, as a boy at
Brighton, Sacramento, can testify since
last Christmas morning......General Schenck
and his daughter are in Paris.........The
question of flogging in public schools is being
agitated in England, and the wretched system
is defended by some of the learned gentle-
men as a promotion of dicipline......Miss
Swayze is lecturing on “Free Hate.”.......
Paymaster Hodge, the army defaulter, has
been pardoned by President Grant.....One
of the leading bankers in Munich is a lady,
Miss Adele Spitzides....The “Temperance
Daughters” of Philadelphia have $18,000 in
the Treasury'......‘The Gossip,” a new humor-
ous London paper, will be edited by W. H.
Garrett......A lady pedestrian is said to be
preparing for a long western walk, from
Long Island to Omaha......Gladstone, it is
rumored is about to honor journalism, by
confering a baronetcy upon one of the pro-
prietors of the “Daily Telegraph,”......Gail
Hamilton is spending the winter at Wash-
ington, with Speaker Blaine’s family......
President Juarez of Mexico, left a minute
account of all sums of money receive
him from his elevation to the Presidency
......Mrs. Livermore lectures on “What
shall we do with our daughters.”......A new
nickle coinage is to be adorned with the
portrait of the late Thaddeus Stevens.....
“The Ladies Sociable,” is the name of a
society lately formed in Wyoming.......
Governor English, of Connect
icut, gives
$10,000 worth of law books to the library of
the New Haven Bar.......Horace Greeley is
not likely to be soon forgotten, as the litiga-
tion relative to his will has not the
appearance of an early settlement..........
The rivers in the valley of the Po, are again
rising and fresh inundations are threatened
.......Two brothers by the name of Locke,
one at Gould Station, near Swedesboro, the
other at Camden, both died the same morn-
ing, December22d......The internal revenue
receipts since July 1st have been $61,518,922.
......The Crown Prince Humbolt was
thrown from his carriage, while riding, in
Rome, a few days since, and sustained some
slight injuries. Had he been the heir ap-
parent to a royal peasant, not a word
would have been said about it.......They
stew cherries with much juice, in Berlin,
and make a dish called cherry-soup......Darwin
has published a new book, entiled “The Ex-
pressions of the Emotions in man and ani-
mals.”.......A steamer which recently arrived
at New York, had, among its passengers, a
sixteen-foot anaconda, a five-foot gorilla,
and a, Bengal tiger......Joaquin Miller has
completed his poem of the “Isles of the
Amazon.".....Three California Archbishops
have issued a bill prohibiting the intermar-
riage of Catholics and Protestants........
Having successfully demonstrated that he
can live on an average of fifty-fonr cents a
week.......Dr. Dio Lewis has started a news-
paper......The death of the popular English
poetess, Eliza Cook, which English papers
have been chronicling of late, we are happy
to record was a mistake......Paris newsboys
are to be uniformed in dark blue clothes and
scarlet cape.


﻿UTAH AND THE MORMONS.

	For a couple of weeks past we have scarcely
opened a newspaper that had not something to
say about Utah, the Mormons, polygamy, and
so on; some calling for stern, repressive legisla-
tion by Congress, against the “enormities of
the Mormons,” and others advocating a more
charitable and humane policy.
	Utah is unpopular with a certain class, and
they indulge in prolonged pharisaic howls
against the people who built up this Territory,
until the masses, who kuow nothing of the
actual state of affairs in Utah, are led to believe
that the “Mormons” are a horrible people
whom it would be doing God’s service to annhi-
latc, destroy, kill off, or in some way put them
out of existence to prevent them from galling
a sanctimonious but corrupt set of Aminidab
Sleeks, who profess morality, yet whose hypoc-
risy is glaringly exposed by the moral,
industrious and temperate habits of the Latter-
day Saints.
	The great outcry is raised against polygamy,
stigmatized as the sole remaining relic of bar-
barism which afflicts or disgraces the country.
Oh great and glorious country! unequalled
people who have no fouler stain upon their 
national escutcheon than tins, and it confined 
to a few valleys in the heart of the continent!
What a proud spectacle does that land present
where nothing but the purest chastity can be
found; where no places devoted to vice exists
in its great cities or smaller towns; where civil-
ization has elevated the people until they have
gained the complete mastery over every passion
and appetite; and where there is nothing to
disturb the serenity of their souls but the faith
of a single and not very numerous community;
that faith, too, inculcating the strictest chastity,
and holding virtue as a pearl above price, while
contending that plural marriages are consonant
with morality, physiology, and the revealed
will of the Almighty as expressed in the Scrip-
tures! But it may be that those who bestir
themselves so actively in this matter really
discard every principle and practice of the patri-
archal times, called by them “the age of
barbarism.” Honor and honesty were con-
sidered worthy the respect of all in those
barbaric times, and they are evidently but
lightly regarded now. Men were temperate
then and lived to a good old age; now they
boast of their intemperance, and hurry to
premature graves. People then were simple in
their tastes, moderate in their habits, and easely
satisfied. Now, wealth is eagerly sought after
to minister to a thousand idle fancies, or worse
still, to gratify appetites that revel in debauch-
ery. Honesty, industry, temperance and frugal
habits being relics of barbarism, the present
"civilized" age, it would appear, desires to be
rid of them, lest they, too, with that other bar-
baric practice of plural marriage, should stain
the proud escutcheon of progress which flaunts
so loftily on the breeze inscribed "Excelseor,"
	An apostle of old strongly inculcated charity
as the greatest of the virtues, and a proverb of
less ancient date says charity should begin at
home. We recommend to these very pious
people throughout the country, who are so
strongly exercised over the condition of Utah,
to open their eyes and look around them, and
see what a vast field there is, within sight of
their very doors, for the philanthropist, the re-
former and the man or woman of real charity
to labor in. And we can assure those at a dis-
tance, that the men in Utah who make the
loudest outcry against the immorality of the
"Mormons," are themselves the most immoral
men in the country, and openly boast that they
only use this cry as a means of stirring up pre-
judice to enable them to accomplish designs
which it were flattery to characterize as base.


﻿WORK.

	In the design of mortal existence, whatever
else might have been contemplated, we,
evidently were intended to work. No matter
what we are, or how situated, there is no get-
ting around the one inevitable fact that we must
labor, if we would be any thing of ourselves
in and to the world. The wives of farmers,
who are believed by some of our industrious
cityladies to have less care and responsibilities
upon them than they could possibly have
living in the city and striving to “keep up ap-
pearances,’ will always assert that they have 
more to do than they know how to manage,
and that it seems as though no one else could
be so pressed with work; cooking, perhaps, for
a half a dozen or a dozen, with eight or ten cows
to milk, pigs and chickens to feed, churning,
washing and ironing to do and the making and
mending of clothes for the family. Is not all
this enough to keep the country woman busy?
Is it any marvel that she finds but little time
for reflection or improvement of mind? But if
she is a young wife and mother, with but one
child, and property around her accordingly, it
is the same; she will always find something to
busy herself about, something that must be
done. True it is that we weary, and that pain
is produced by toil in a majority of cases; yet
we must work. The actual scholar, to acquire
the vast amount of intellectual power which is
striven for with quite as much zeal as money
seekers employ in hunting after gold, must
labor most assiduously in discipling the
mental faculties and keeping them in hourly
use. And it is certain that no treasure can be
so much enjoyed as that which is fairely earned,
and that no good thing is earned without exer-
tion; while the happiest remedy there is for the
sorrows and ills of life, is generous and wise em-
ployment in which they are forgotten.


﻿EXITS.

	The record of the recent past bears off its page
the names of an unusually large number of dis-
tinguished characters, who have retired behind
the scenes on the grand stage of mortal exist-
ence. The spectacle is one in which almost a
generation of prominent actors seem to have
been represented as passing away, and their
histories alone remain, to remind us that “we
may make our lives sublime.” Eighteen hun- 
dred and seventy-three begins its round of noble 
exits with that of the ex-emperor Louis
Napoleon, who died in exile at Chiselhurst, 
England, on the morning of Thursday, 9th inst.


The career of this man has been so interwoven
with the history of Europe for the last twenty
years, that those who have a knowledge of the
one cannot be ignorant of the other; for he
shaped for years the policy that governed that
continent. His life was an eventful one, full of
light and shade; and in elevation as in exile he
found his truest friend in a woman, she who
shared his imperial splendor and knelt by his
dying bed at Chiselhurst, the empress Eugiene.
But death, when it comes, strikes alike the
highest and the lowliest; and in the tomb,
whether it be a mighty mausoleum or an
humble grave, emperor and peasant are but
equal remnants of mortality.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE CHANGE OF NAME.

	The Relief Societies of the following named
settlements have sent us reports containing
accounts of their properly renouncing the prefix
“Female” in connection with the name of the
Society: Smithfleld, Farmington, Ogden, Wil-
lard City, Brigham City, Kamas Prairie,
Alpine City, Santaquin, Salem, Nephi, Big
Cottonwood, 1st Ward In Provo City, Bounti-
ful, Ephraim, Wanship, Logan, Cedar City,
Mendon, Heber City, Fillmore, Beaver, and
American Fork—twenty-two. And the newly
organized branch at Riverdale, which takes the
correct term without making use of the super-
fluous word, makes the number twenty-three.
But these do not constitute a majority of the
branch Societies throughout the Territory,
Send on your minutes, Secretaries; we are
anxious to leave the “F” off the heading of the
Society reports, but cannot do so legally while
only a minority of those concerned have sanc
tioned the proceeding.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SABBATH School entertainment, referred
to in our issue of January 1st, was given in the
Thirteenth instead of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city. The figure in the notice was a typo-
graphical error.
	A NUMBER of those who subscribed for the
EXPONENT with its first issue, for six months,
have not renewed their subscriptions, although
the paper is now in its eight month since
started. Will they please renew at once, or
notify us that they wish their papers stopped?
	A NEW Associate Justice for Utah, in the
person of Wm. W. Mitchell, has been appointed
in place of Judge Strickland, who presided over
the first judicial district, holding court in
Provo. Judge Mitchell must be a very poor
specimen of a just judge if he is not an improve-
ment on the man he succeeds.
	NEWS OF our friends, the Palestine party,
come almost daily to hand, and only agreeable
accounts of good health and enjoyable seasons
have been yet received. They were at Nice on
Christmas day, and, doubtless, had a nice time;
on New Year’s day they reached Milan, and if
their expectations have been so far successful,
they are to-day at Pisa.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt of a pleasant
invitation to attend a Relief Society Party of
the First Ward, held in the neat, new brick
building of that Ward, which, although not
yet completed is so far advanced as to be an
agreeable place of entertainment for an even-
ing’s enjoyment. We understand that the
proceeds are to be devoted to the finishing of
the meeting house, which is certainly credit-
able, and we wish the sisters much success in
the undertaking.
	THE PRESENT winter, so far, has been an un-
usual one, for the extreme and sometimes
sudden changes from frost to rain, and from


intense cold to mildness of atmosphere. As a 
result colds, catarrhs, bronchial affections and
pneumonia have been prevalent, and a number
have died of the last-named disease. Parents
should be especially careful of their children,
in such sudden changes of weather, and endeavor
to so arrange their clothing that the body will
be kept, as nearly as possible, at an even tem-
perature.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

			London, Nov. 25, 1872.

MY DEAR LULA:—
	In my last, I left you at Central Park in
New York. Early next morning, (5th of
Nov.,) in company of brother Feramorz Lit-
tle, sister Little, Clara L. and her little
brother Frank—also brother Spencer Claw-
son, I took the cars for West Point where
we arrived at 10 a. m., after crossing the
beautiful Hudson river on a steam ferry
boat.
	West Point is a delightful point. The
natural scenery is variegated and imposing.
Having one hour to while away before we
could have an interview with the object of
our visit, Mr. Willard Young, we strolled
around the premises, viewing the objects of
interest, and some things, which to us,
promoters of peace, were not particularly
interesting. Great numbers of cannon, of
various forms and sizes were to be seen in
different places,—some from Mexico, others
from the Crimea, preserved as specimens;
also a portion of the ponderous iron chain
which the Americans stretched across the
Hudson, in the Revolutionary War, to im-
pede the British ships. I admired the
beautiful green area, with its fine shade
trees, surrounded by rugged hills; on the
top of the highest, in the distance, Putnam’s
Fort is to be seen, which is said to remain
precisely as the veteran General, whose
name it bears, built, and left it. The next
hour was very pleasantly spent in “tete a
tete” with the young military student,
whom we found in good health and spirits,
and returned to New York at 4 p. m.
	That evening Mr. Richardson and lady
called on us—he has been a traveler in Pales-
tine and gave us much interesting informa-
tion respecting it. Before we left New
York, the number in the hotel, from Utah,
amounted to twenty.
	On the morning of the 6th we went on
board the steamer Minnesota and through
the kindness of brother W. C. Staines, were
very comfortably quartered, and soon
launched forth into the Hudson and from
thence into the broad ocean.
	I saw the ocean for the first time, and was
in nothing so disappointed as its color,
which is, when calm, dark, very dark, yes,
positively black, and to me appeared like a
mass of lava. I wanted to look at it poetic-
ally, and watched intently for “blue waves,”
or even “green waves,” but to no purpose
except the waters were stirred, then, be-
neath the white foam the blue, and more
particularly the green were observable. I
was but little sea sick, and, although our
passage was rough, I rather enjoyed it. It
was raining when we arrived in Liverpool
on the morning of the 19th. The North-
western Hotel, where we stopped, is a finely
constructed building, with many accommo-
dations, but is conducted altogether too
ceremoniously to consult convenience and
comfort. We staid two days in the dense,
interminable fog of Liverpool, where they
have more light by night from gas than the
sun affords them by day.
	The first day I spent in writing, with a very
agreeable and interesting visit to the sanc-
tum of President Carrington; on the second,
a very severe cold prevented my visiting
the Workhouse as I had anticipated—a sketch
of which my brother Lorenzo has written to
the Deseret News.
	We left Liverpool for London by train, at 9 a.
m. and arrived at 2 p.m.—two hundred and
three miles. The cars in England, instead of
being open from end to end and the seats all
in one view, as in America, are partitioned
into boxes containing two seats, the first
class seating six persons, three on each seat,
face to face, and the second class, eight—
four on each seat. These boxes open only
on the outside, so that there is no communi-
cation between the different sections. Here
the distances are so short compared with
those of America that sleeping cars are not
in use.
			Yours, with love to all,
							E. R. Snow.


WOMAN’S AGENCY.
			—
	A temperate life and a prayerful heart
produce a fruitful mind, well stored with
useful knowledge. There has been a great
deal said and written concerning woman’s
rights. It is a subject that I feel interested in,
enough so to attempt to express some of my
views in relation to it, through the columns
of the EXPONENT. There is one fact that I
wish to prove, by reference to my own ex-
perience, having been eighteen  years a
“Mormon.” When I first heard a “Mor-
mon” missionary preach, I was twenty-eight
years of age; and I believed every word he
said. Why? Because I believed the Bible,
and he did not preach anything but what
could be proved from the sacred book. Now,
what was I to do? I had a husband, father
and brothers, all intelligent, honorable
men. Was it my duty to ask them if the
Gospel was true, and whether I must obey
it or not? Or had God given me my own
agency, to think and act in such matters for
myself? My father was a deist, and that
was the tradition under which I was
brought up. The “Mormon” Elder told the
people if they believed and obeyed the
requirements of the Gospel, they should
know of the doctrine, whether it was of God
or of man; and that the signs followed the
believers as in ancient times. Well, I
thought if God is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever, I will go to Him on my
bended knees and ask him if he has revealed
Himself from the Heavens and sent forth
messengers to gather His Elect from the
four quarters of the earth. I covenanted
with the Lord to be a faithful witness to
this testimony, provided He gave it to me
as I had read of its being given on the day
of Pentecost. I would bear testimony to all
the world that I received it in answer to my
prayer, leaving no room for doubt. I would
like to fulfill that promise to the Lord. And
if any person wishes to know why I am here
in Salt Lake City, living in polygamy, I
think this is sufficient reason; and my
prayer is that I never may live to be
ashamed of this testimony, for it is the
testimony of Jesus. And it is this that has
placed me in the position I occupy to-day.
All the men in Christendom could never
have made me submit to live with a man
that had more than one wife, had I not be-
lieved and become convinced that God
approved it, as much now as He did when
Jacob had Rachel and Leah. But to say
nothing of revelation, the system of plurality
of wives is far superior to that practiced by
the world. I have more to say of woman’s
agency.
							W. E.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿EMPTY.
			    —
Your cozy crib is in the corner yet;
	I sit and watch it, just as day is dead; 
You cannot press again, my vanished pet.
	Its pillow with your drowsy golden head.

You cannot reach plump arms to get my kiss,
	Or dart about with rosy naked feet,
Babbling soft syllables of that and this,
	A tiny nightgowned fairy, blithe and sweet.

Once and for all you have lain down to rest,
	Not to rise up because of birds or beams,—
Once and for all, wi h white flowers on your breast,
To slumber coldy and to dream no dreams.]

Empty the home where, frolicsome and fair,
	Your precious presence made so bright a part;
Empty your little crib, your clothes, your chair,
	But emptiest of all your mother’s heart!
						[“Atlantic Monthly."


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Believing that all who have been blessed
with the light of truth, with a knowledge of
the Gospel of Christ as restored to the earth
in this generation, by the power of God,
through His servant Joseph, should take
active and earnest part in seeking to build
up and establish the Kingdom of Righteous-
ness, I wish to offer a few words to my
sisters through the columns of your paper.
I would ask why we are here in these
valleys, we who have left homes and friends
in other lands, where we could have lived
and labored as our forefathers did before us,
without the trouble, expense and fatigue of
emigrating to Utah? The answer is trite,
but nevertheless true, with many of us; we
came here for the purpose of serving God.
And what is it to serve Him as He requires?
As we understand it, it is to “live by every
word which proceedeth from His mouth.”
	Among the many commandments which
He has given for the instruction and salva-
tion of His people, there are numerous
instances where we are directed to dili-
gence and warned against slothfulness. The
prophet Ezekiel reckoned idleness one of
the three great sins of Sodom. “Behold 
this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom:
pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of
idleness was - in her.” The Creator has so
constituted His children that they cannot be 
happy and idle at the same time. The most
irksome task which can be imposed on man
is that of doing nothing; while not alone in
the possession lies the charm of that which
is valuable, but the chief delight is in honest
acquirement. “Things won are done—joy’s
soul lies in the doing.” There is labor for
the head as well as the hands. and it is noble
and God-like to exercise and improve the
mental gifts with which we have been blest,
to cultivate our intellectual, immortal parts,
and to increase the power of thought, and
consequent individuality, as well as to bring
theories into practice, and work with our
hands. Permit me to say that I think if many
of our ladies would do a little more brain
work of the right kind, instead of using so
freely those frivolities which are ever pre-
sent in the idle mind, and are brought forth
without exertion, it would be of great worth
to themselves and also to the community.
				Respectfully, 		NORA.


﻿YOUNG ladies of this city, going home
from Sabbath School, on the Sunday
between Christmas and New Year’s, were
heard singing a very appropriate parody
on “Beautiful Snow,” commencing with “O!
the mud, the tractable mud! Filling the
streets like a halcyon flood! Splashing to
cover a fair lady’s feet; Slopping about o’er
the people you meet. Fresh as an idea nip-
ped in the bud—There’s nothing so real as
the tractable mud!”


FLOWERS.
					—
	The ties of friendship are stronger and
more certain than those of kindred.
	Rejoice in having done well, but leave
others to tell of it; self praise spoils the
effects of a generous and noble action.
	Real modesty and affectation are so
different in their natures, that while one is
commendable the other is contemptible.
	There is nothing purer than honesty—
nothing warmer than love—nothing richer
than wisdom—nothing brighter than virtue
—and nothing more steadfast than faith.
These united in one mind, form the purest,
sweetest, warmest, brightest, and most
steadfast happiness.
	You may become what you will, if you
only work for it with all the powers God has
given you. Choose then, some worthy am-
bition. Do not let it be riches or honor
among men, or anything the Lord does not
esteem. Choose some great, noble purpose
on which you can ask His blessing. Then
work for it with all your might, and you
will not fail of the victory.
	Many people imagine that courage is
confined to the field of battle. There could
be no greater mistake. Even contentions
with men, unavoidable contentions, are not
by any means limited to public battle-fields.
And there are other struggles in private life
—struggles with adverse circumstances—
struggles, it may be, with habits of appetites
or passions—all of which require as much
courage, and more of perseverance, than the
brief, exciting encounter of battle.
	What spectacle more pleasing does the
earth afford than a happy woman, contented:
in her sphere, ready at all times to benefit
her little world by her exertions, and trans-
forming the briars and thorns of life into
roses of Paradise by the magic of her
touch? There are those who are thus happy
because they cannot help it; no misfortunes
dampen their sweet smiles, and they diffuse
a cheerful glow around them, as they pursue
the even tenor of their way. They have
the secret of contentment, whose value is
above the pilosopher’s stone; for without
seeking the baser exchange of gold which
may buy some sort of pleasure, they convert
everything they touch into joy. What
their condition is makes no difference. They
may be rich or poor, high or low, admired
or forsaken by the fickle world; but the
sparkling fountain bubbles up in their hearts
and makes them radiantly beautiful.
	Life bears us on like a stream of a mighty
river. Our boat glides down the harrow
channel through the playful murmurs of the
little brook and the winding of the grassy
borders. The trees shed their blossoms
over our young heads; the flowers on the
brink seem to offer themselves to our young
hands; we are happy in hope, and grasp
eagerly at the beauties around us; but the
stream hurries on, and still our hands
are empty. Our course in youth and man-
hood is along a deeper and wider flood, amid
objects more striking and mahificent. We
are animated at the moving picture of enjoy-
ment and industry passing around us—are
excited at some short-lived disappointment.
The stream bears us on, and our joys and
griefs are left behind us. We may be ship-
wrecked—we cannot be delayed; whether
rough or smooth, the river hastens to its home,
till the roar of the ocean is in our ears, and
the tossing of the waves beneath our feet,
and land lessens from our eyes, and the floods
are lifted up around us, and we take our leave
of earth and its inhabitants, until of our
farther voyage there is no witness save the
Infinite and the Eternal.


THE SEX.

	Anna Dickinson lectures on “Things
Hoped For.”
	Laura Ream is candidate for the office of 
State Librarian of Indiana.
	A daughter of the Rothschilds is about
to be married to a poor man, and this poor
man is a Christian.
	The married ladies of Hannibal, Missouri
have formed a “Come Home Husband Club.”
It is about four feet long and has a brush at
the end of it.
	Miss Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
now studying music in Florence, is to be
prima donna of opera in Warsaw, Poland, the
coming winter.
	Miss Hotchkiss sensibly thinks it high
time that women should try to invent some
graceful and becoming style of dress which
would be consistent with health and free-
dom.
	Miss Mary Thurman; eldest daughter of
the Ohio Senator, is aoon to be married to a
naval officer named Herrman, which goes
to show that their domestic differences will
be over their T.
	Miss Rhoda Bou ghton, the author o
“Goodbye, Sweetheart,” etc., (says a corres-
pondent,) is young, pretty, fascinating, and
rather wild. She is the eldest daughter of
au English clergyman, and at present resid-
ing with an uncle in Devonshire, England.
“Cometh up as a Flower.” was written by
her when only sixteen.
	Miss Olive Risley Seward will hereafter
make her home at Fredonia with her father,
H. A. Risley, The old homestead has been
handsomely fitted up, where with the hand-
some income of fifty thousand dollars be-
queathed to her by Seward, she can live in
elegant retirement—if she has the notion to
live that way.
	The Queen of England has reversed the
gallantry of Sir Walter Raleigh, who spread
his rich plush coat out for his sovereign to
tread upon. The Duke of Sutherland is
having a shaft sunk in his estate to improve
some mines, and being told of these opera-
tions while there, the Queen expressed a de-
sire to see them. The Duke escorted her
thither, and while her Majesty was standing
on the bank, inspecting the work, it com-
menced to rain. A few yards off one of the
men was sawing timber for the shaft, and,
heedless of the rain, continued his work
without a coat. Presently he was surprised
to receive a light touch, and on looking up
perceived the Duke, who laid a costly rug,
over his shoulders, at the same time ex-
claiming. “The Queen requested me to
present you with her own rug, you may
keep and wear it.”
	A Brussels correspondent says that re- 
cently a poor crippled girl, to save her sister
from a week’s imprisonment, to which
she had been condemned for some slight
offence, herself confessed the crime, and
went there instead of the offender. The
fraud was detected after she had suffered-
the punishment, and when brought before
the judge she was sentenced to three months
imprisonment, which, however, she will
now escape. Her answer to the question
what induced her to substitute herself for
her sister was, that being a cripple, she
could not sustain her aged mother, which,
her sister had done for a long time, “and,
therefore,” she added, “it was better for me
to go to prison and let her be free.” A sub-
scription has been started for the girl, and
much has been subscribed to aid her and the
family of so devoted a heroine.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
 			MY FRIEND.
				—
	She is not at all like other people; she is
her own singular, primitive self. Every
person has peculiarities sacred to the one
and possessed by no other; but her original-
ities are unprecedented, and entirely her
own. Her good sense is a safe and sure
backing for her in all circumstances. She
always dresses in good style but with such
superior taste that whatever she puts on is
becoming to her. Nothing is ever new to
her; she seems to have a presentiment of
occurrences before they take place, to antici-
pate and be prepared for just what transpires,
and consequently to understand the precise
method of undertaking and managing any-
thing that comes along. She knows too
much to be dull and miserable, and can
make herself at home, at ease, and agreeable
wherever she may be placed. And yet,
withal, she entertains an intense longing to
pass from this life into one of higher intelli-
gence, where the mind may have broader
scope and freer access to the inexhaustable
fountains of pure and eternal knowledge.
She seems to have drawn forth so much of
the finer grade of excellence which belongs
to earthly substances, that her mind now
reaches forward, grasping at something
beyond, which, while clogged with this
mortal coil, it cannot fully comprehend. It
is not in the daily routine of busy, careless
life that the real sublimity and grandeur of
her strangely beautiful intellectual powers
are clearly and unmistakably visible, though
in common conversation she expresses much;
and much in her expressive language which
would be self conceit and egotism in another,
portrays only self knowledge and absolute
strength of character in her. She is indeed,
a strange composition, wonderfully endowed.
But to understand what she is, one must
become familiar with her ways, intimate
with herself, and hear her in a private ram-
ble, back over some of the quiet windings,
twistings and twinings of the threads of her
past life. Then her singularities are plain
to be observed and comprehended. She
may be still an anomaly, but it is clearly ap-
parent why; and the sympathies which her
soul stirring words awaken are ever plea-
sant and intelligent, though of a strangely
solemn and dignified nature.
								 G.


﻿AN AFFECTING INCIDENT.
			   —
	An affecting incident of the sufferings,
of working women rendered houseless and
penniless by the Boston fire, is told thus:
	During the first week after the fire a very
pretty young girl, evidently not far from
twenty, came shyly in and took a seat away
from the crowd. She was quite noticeable,
both from her face and manner and her
dress, which, although it was only black
alpaca, was worn with a genuine lady-like
style and daintiness; everything about her
was scrupulously neat, and there was an air
of refinement about her that told of better
surroundings and different modes of life
from most of the women there assembled. A
member of the committee, wondering at
her appearance, went to her and accosted her
rather brusquely:
	“Well, what are you here for?”
	A painful flush rose quickly to the sensi-
tive face, and she replied:	
	“I heard—some one told me,—that all who
needed temporary assistance were to apply
here.”
	“Well,” was the answer, “why do you
come? you don’t look as though you needed


anything, you are dressed well enough,
and—”
	But the girl waited for no more. She
sprang to her feet, the tears streaming from
her eyes, her face crimsoned with shame,
and turned towards the door. Several ladies
who had been watching the scene, and who
appreciated the situation, instantly were at
her side. One of them led her to a seat,
and putting motherly arms around her,
soothed her as she would a grieved child.
Then came the question, quick and sympa-
thetic:
	“What is it, my dear? What can we do
for you?”
	Through the sobs came the answer:—
	“I never had to ask for help before, and I
had to struggle so hard with myself before I
could come this morning. I lost my place
by the fire, but I am to have another soon,
but, I must live until then. I cannot stay
in my boarding-place unless I pay my board
every week, and there is no place for me to
go, and I don’t know what I shall do.”
	“How much do you require?”
	The sum was told, and little enough it
was; in an instant it was in her hand, with
an addition beside from the pocket of her
new-found friend: and she went away happy
and safe. This is but one of the incidents
of a like character that are constantly occur-
ring, giving these women such insight as
they never had before into the lives of that
large class of their sex, of whom Henry
Ward Beecher once said: “There is only a
cambric needle between them and hell.”
This phase of poverty is a new revelation to
them, and they are learning to meet it
properly, and to feel a tender pity for those
who strive to hide it, only revealing the
truth at last when it becomes a bitter neces-
sity. That they did not understand it at
first is not but the fault of the persons them-
selves as the effect of their education. There
are traditional manners of managing the
poor that they quickly found were not prac-
tical, and they learned the ways fast as
possible, doing what they did with their
whole hearts if their tongues and fingers did
bungle a little- at first—“Pioneer.”


﻿WOMAN LOAFERS.
			—
	The following, furnished by a correspon-
dent of the Cincinnati “Commercial” is good
enough to read and reflect upon. Will some
of our young ladies who are accustoming
 hemselves to “look down on labor” give
the subject a little consideration?
	“Sometimes it seems to me that the whole
social life of woman is based upon two ideas
—aping and envy. The woman who lives in
two little back rooms up stairs, apes and en-
vies the woman with the large house, and
the woman with a large house is in a steady
fever of fear and fretting lest she be not
recognized by the woman with the stone
front house and a circus chariot, with a clown
dressed up in buttons. No matter how high
up a woman climbs upon the social ladder,
there is always still some higher hight
which she can’t scale, some other over her
head who looks down upon her, and gives
her days and nights of jealousy and head-
ache. Not a blessed woman of them all is
happy and content in the soil wherein fate
has planted her, but must needs spend her
time and strength in frantic efforts to pull
herself up by the roots and transplant her-
self somewhere else. The snobs who ride
circus chariots curl up their noses at the
schoolmistresses, the schoolmistresses look
down from their infinite hights upon the
clerks and dressmakers, and the clerks and
dressmakers in turn pay it off with interest


upon the kitchen girls. What nonsense,
what tom-foolery it all is! Is a schoolmis-
tress any better or higher than a washer-
woman? Not a bit. And are not school-
mistresses and washerwomen both infinitely
better and higher up than the lady loafer,
the Steve Moores of the female sex, in short?
Yea, verily.
	Women are the most-absurd creatures, all
owing to the silly fancy that it is lady-like
to be a loafer. A little time ago one of my
small busy housekeeper friends asked a lady
loafer caller what had become of her sister.
	“She goes down town every day, now,”
said the lady loafer, hesitatingly. 
	“Is she at work?” inquired the house-
keeper.
	“Well, ye—yes,” said the lady loafer, still
more hesitatingly.
	“What does she do?” inquired my friend.
	The lady loafer stammered and backed off
painfully two or three times, and finally
made a clean breast of it, thusly:
	“She—she—she has charge of the trim-
mings in a—dressmaking establishment.
She has nothing to do with the dressmaking.
She has charge of the trimmings. It’s not
a common dressmaking establishment. It’s
one of the fashionable dressmakers. She
won’t make a dress for a poor person.”
	“Oh, glory! Fan me with a cabbage
leaf!" quoth my friend, the small busy house-
keeper.
	The idea of a body’s dressmaker setting
herself to be “highstocracy.” The laurels of
the lady loafers in the circus chariots are
quite withered after that. And yet, why
not a dressmaker? Isn’t money made at
dressmaking quite as aristocratic as money
made with pork, whisky, hides, soap, tallow
and tobacco? Those are the material foun-
dations upon which our American nobility
found their airy castles of aristocracy, you
know, and I’m sure dressmaking is quite as
high and honorable as any of them.


﻿Gentle oxen, suitable for hauling a
basket phaeton about town, are in request
among the ladies of Titusville. 
	A New-fashioned square dance is called
the Pyramid, and being similar to the quad-
rille, is likely to become quite as popular.
	A pair of ladies’ rubber overshoes were
lately found in the stomach of an ox at
Orange, Vt. What became of the lady is
not known.
	“I’ve always heard the world was round
and now I know it,” were Seward’s first
words to a concourse of friends who welcomed
him to Auburn after his circumnavigation
of the globe.	
	“Six feet in his boots!” exclaimed Mrs.
Beeswax; “what will the imprudence of this
world come to, I wonder? Why, they
might as well tell me the man had six heads
in his hat.”
	Dickens says: “I have known vast quan-
tities of nonsense talked about bad men not
looking you in the face. Don’t trust to that
conventional idea. Dishonesty will stare you
out of countenance any day in the week, if
there is anything to be got by it.
	Miss Knight, of Boston, has invented a
machine for making paper bags, and is hav-
ing a number of them manufactured at
Chicopee under her own supervision. The
workmen employed were at first skeptical
as to her mechanical ability, but she cured
them of this by going daily and working
among them, detecting mistakes and im-
proving plans with a keener eye than any
man in the works. Her invention is said to
be an invaluable one, and she will make a
fortune by it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As a colored boy was following a whistle
of great volume he met an inebriated individ-
ual, who, taking umbrage at the boy’s
musical jollity, gave him a round buffet on
the side of the head. Unluckily for him,
however, the liquor he was carrying made
him top heavy and he was thrown from his
feet by the momentum acquired in deliver-
ing the blow. The boy, half crying, took
advantage of the opportunity and repaid in
kicks the cuff he had received, taking care,
however, to get out of the way before his
opponent regained his feet.
	In his recent talk with Gambetta, Senator
Sumner lamented as a great defect of France
the want of sincere and rational religion,
and expressed his opinion that one of the
most harmful things ever said by a great
man in a position to influence his contem-
poraries and posterity was the famous “mot”
of Henry IV., “Paris vaut bein une messe;”
the free translation of which is that it is well
worth while to change one’s religion and
become a Catholic instead of a Protestant in
order to be master of Paris. The profound
immorality of such skepticism, coming from
a king reputed one of the best that ever
reigned, had, in Sumner’s opinion, struck
deep root in France, and produced immense
evil by its example.
	When I was a boy, says a distinguished
man, my first saving of ten cent pieces,
earned by Saturday afternoon work—for
school kept half a day on Saturday.then—
were expended in buying a heifer calf.
Then I worked on, and paid my father a cer-
tain sum each month for keeping. When
the calf was one year old I traded it for two
steer calves, and now had to put in good and
strong to pay for their keeping; but I
occupied all my spare time in teaching these
calves to work in the yoke, and at one year
old they would gee and haw as well as
old oxen, and my father paid me for their 
use in leading the team for breaking his two
three-year-olds. Again, I had a piece of
ground each year, after I was fourteen, that
I could plant and work on shares; and if I
wanted help, why I had to give two days of
my time to the hired man’s one day. I grew
just what my fancy and reading dictated
and from the proceeds I dressed as well as
any of the boys at the present time. I always
had some time, to play, time to read, and now
look back, with love and pleasant thoughts,
to the old farm and the firm-hand which
taught me to use tools, and whipped me
when I neglected to drive the team out
straight at the end of the furrow in plowing.
The remembrance of my boyhood has always
iduced me to favor all items of encourage-
ment at home on the farm; and I believe, if
it were more generally practiced, we should
have: more good farmers and less broken-
down merchants or loafing, hanging-on,
time-serving clerks, ready for anything ex-
cept honorable labor and usefulness.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
ot Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.	
						DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.
[new column]
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON, 
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 	
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

			JOHNSON’S
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
   BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
   CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other part of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
   ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
   These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
   If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
   Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rales advantageous
to purchasers.
   AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						   St. George, Utah.
H. WALLACE
   Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
   We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patron's.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
   While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
[new column]
			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

   The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani- 
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
   They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply
   Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!'’
   For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
   The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief graphic summary of current, news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on lending topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
   It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
   Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connect d with their workings;
and to this end  he Presidents and Secretaries of the
various societies thr ughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
   Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female 
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, 
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.	
   WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto. 
   The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.	
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	1 Copy six months. $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00 
   No subscription received for less than six months.
   It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting 
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

   Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
   Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
   At No 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

