VOL. I. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,  APRIL 15, 1873.		No. 22﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	POPE PIUS Nono has been very ill the
past week. He is old, and his death may
occur at any time.
	THE LATEST agony in New York journal-
ism is a daily illustrated newspaper; and the
wood cuts show all the evidences of being
hurriedly got up.
	THE SECOND Adventists of Groton, Ver-
mout, fixed upon April 12, of this year, as
“the last great day;” but as it wasn’t, they
will have to refix the date.
	INDIANA proposes another “new de-
parture,” by allowing women the suffrage.
Should the proposition succeed where will
Massachusetts progress be?
	A DAUGHTER of President Thiers of the
French Republic, died at San Francisco
during the last week of March, and the
remains were taken to France for inter-
ment.
	AN INDIANA parson determined that his
discourses shall not be wanting in both
rhyme and reason, delivers them in rhyme.
His congregation should escape future pun-
ishment after having to endure such present
torture.
	MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY has graduated
twelve lady physicians and two lady law-
yers this year; and yet some of the New
England States querulously question wo-
man’s ability to practice either medicine or
law. The West keeps in the front!
	WILL ANYTHING frighten fashionable
ladies out of purchasing and wearing false
hair? Here is another “ghost” from Cali-
fornia:	“Somebody sold a dealer in human
hair some hair that had been cut from the
head of a small-pox patient, and the dealer
took the disesse and died.”	
	KENTUCKY HAS a town named Elizabeth,
with a population of 2,500, which spends
$200 a day in whisky; $73,000 a year for
that twenty-five hundred souls, male and
female, infant, youth, adult and aged, to
swallow some ninety thousand gallons of
liquid poison! Very probably they think
themselves temperate people, too! 
	AND NOW word comes from Minnesota
that the “foreman” of one of the leading
newspaper offices in that State is a woman.
There are people still who say women are
not competent to become printers; but the
world has never been rid of that kind of
people from whom even practical elucida-
tion will not remove such unbelief.
	NEW JERSEY legislative corruption bids
fair to outrank oven Congressional Credit
Mobilierism and New York legislative
venality. The question is not, did the leg-
islators sell out to railway magnates; but
how much was paid for them. As the
people elect their representatives they may
thank themselves if they are twice so
afflicted with the same men.
	THERE HAS been a very general outcry
through the press against the action of the
late Congress in passing the increased salary
bill, and making it retroactive so that each
member could draw the advance for the two
back years; and in some instances members
of Congress that voted for it have been
asked to resign. The feeling appears to be,
not that the country should pay more for its
legislation, but that it could do with a great
deal less of the kind of legislation it has
been favored with for some time. It is held,
too, that no act of the last Congress became
it half so well as that of dying.
	THE WOMAN Suffragists of California
were in convention in San Francisco last
week, but the brief telegraphic news re-
ceived concerning it by the daily papers,
contained so little information on the subject
that we must wait for due course of mail to
bring a fuller report.
	IT MAY be considered sad to record that
a number of women assisted, lately, at a
case of “lynching” at Fort Erie, Canada;
yet the foremost in deeds of daring among
the Paris Communists were women. It only
shows how the gentleness of the sex can be
turned to fierceness by association with
rough and bloodthirsty men, or by famili-
arity with scenes of violence.
	DIVORCE, WHICH was at one time deemed
cause for painful reproach has now become
fashionable, and the lady of the period can
meet with the utmost nonchalance the former
husband, while she hangs on the arm of
the present one. Our grand-parents looked
at things differently; but they had a kind
of old-fashioned faith in honor, honesty,
esteem and love, that is little admired now.
	OHIO HAS a Farmer’s Club for Women,”
the members of which meet regularly to
discuss practical questions applicable to farm
life; such as making bread, best methods of
curing fruit, how to make and keep pickles,
both sour and sweet, how to clean house
with the least confusion, least destruction
to furniture and most expedition, and the
like. This, certainly, is more becoming and
more profitable than the idle gossiping
which is fashionable.
	MISS PHOEBE Cousins, who was admitted
to the bar as a practicing lawyer in Salt
Lake City, as she could not secure such
recognition in St. Louis, is an applicant for
postmistress of the latter city, a Washing-
ton paper says. Why should she not be
successful? Unless, indeed, it may be
shown that her services in electioneering
last Fall were not so valuable as that of
some men whose persuasive powers, or
whisky expenditures, were more potent
with the “sovereigns” on election day.
	DR. NEWMAN, Chaplain of the United
States Senate and noted as coming to Salt
Lake to shear but going away with but little
fleece, having been appointed Inspector of
Consulates at a handsome salary and ex-
penses paid, was authorized to take a clerk
with him at $3,500 a year; and knowing
that Mrs. Newman would also like to travel,
sent her name in as clerk. This was
keeping the place in the family, which
might as well draw the money as there will
be little, if any, work to do. Dr. Newman,
however, is not on general principles, an
advocate of woman’s rights; only as far as
Mrs. Newman’s drawing her salary may go
he possibly is.
	PRESIDENT GRANT has appointed Mrs.
Cunningham postmistress of Provo, Utah,
and we understand the choice is acceptable
to the people, as the lady performed the duties
of the oflice very efficiently for some time
prior to the death of her late husband, who
was postmaster. In connection with post-
offices, we might say, while applauding the
commissioning of Mrs. Cunningham, that it
would seem a little singular anywhere else
than in Utah that all or nearly all the im-
portant post offices, where any pecuniary
benefit is derivable, are placed in the hands
of comparatively recent settlers in the Ter-
ritory; while the old settlers have the
chance to run post offices where the pay
does not cover the expenses, and the work,
consequently, has to be done “free, gratis,
for nothing.” We say this might seem
strange anywhere else than in Utah, but
here, impartiality, or old settlers receiving
paying offices, would be matter for surprise.
	HORACE GREELEY soon followed to the
tomb the woman who had been his partner
in life so long; and now Mrs. James Gordon
Bennett, wife of the other great New York
editor, follows her husband. She died
recently in Germany, and of her an eastern
paper say:	“She	 was formerly Henrietta
Agnes Crean, who kept a small hosiery and
fancy goods store in William street, New
York, when lower Broadway was still a
place of residence. She was a bright, viva-
cious woman, of large frame and great
vitality. At the time of her marriage, which
occurred at St. Peter’s church, in Barclay
street, on the 6th of June, 1840, Mr. Ben-
nett made the occasion conspicuous in the
columns of his newspaper, and afterward
faithfully recorded the birth of his children
in the same manner. Four children were
born to them, two of whom, a son and a
daughter, survive. Mrs. Bennett at one
time wrote a number of letters from Europe
for the ‘Herald.’ and they were distin-
guished by much vivacity and dash.”
	THERE HAS been a surfeit of horrors
during the last two weeks. The Atlantic
steamship, from Liverpool for New York,
with over a thousand souls on board, went
ashore on the coast of Nova Scotia, some
twenty miles from Halifax, and nearly six
hundred of the number were drowned or
dashed to pieces. About two hundred
were instantaneously killed, crushed or
mangled, by a boom breaking loose and
sweeping over the decks; hundreds were
drowned in their beds; many more in their
efforts to escape; while numbers died of cold,
exhaustion, and exposure in the rigging.
One lady, after hanging to the rigging for
six hours, partly sustained by one of the
officers, died still holding on with a death
grip, her clothing nearly torn and washed
from her person, and the jeweled rings that
glittered on her tender fingers, shining with
mocking glare on the hand of death. What
a fearful sight must have been presented!
And not a woman or child escaped; they all
perished; men, only, finding their way to
shore. A mere contemplation in fancy of
the awful scene is sickening; but what must
it have been for the fated participants to
pass through, before death kindly came to
their relief! Since then heavy floods in the
east have done great damage; destructive
conflagrations have devoured property and
life; and disasters have been of almost daily
occurrence. These are signs of the times,
if the world would but open its eyes to note
their intent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEFT ALONE AT EIGHTY.

			BY ALICE ROBBINS.

	What did you say, dear, breakfast?
		Somehow I’ve slept too late;
	You are very kind, dear Effie,
		Go, tell them not to wait;
	I’ll dress as quick as ever I can,
		My old hands tremble sore,
	And Polly, who used to help, dear heart!
		Lies t’otter side o’ the door,

	Put up the old pipe, deary.
		I couldn’t smoke to-day;
	I’m sort o’dazed and frightened,
		And don’t know what to say.
	It’s lonesome in the house, here,
		And lonesome out o’ door—
	I never knew what lonesome meant,
		In all my life, before.

	The bees go humming, the whole day long,
		And the first June rose has blown,
	And I am eighty, dear Lord, to-day,
		Too old to be left alonel
	Oh, heart of love! so still and cold,
		Oh, precious lips ! so white—
	For the first sad hours in sixty years,
		You were out of my reach, last night

	You’ve cut the flower. You’re very kind.
		She rooted it last May.
	It was only a slip; I pulled the rose,
		And throw the stem away;
	But she, sweet thrifty soul, bent down,
		And pla[-]ted it where she stood,
	“Dear, maybe the flowers are living,” she said,
		“Asleep, in this bit of wood.”

	I can’t rest, deary—I cannot rest;
		Let the old man have his will.
	And wander from porch to garden post—
		The house is so deathly still;
	Wander, and long for a sight of the gate
		She has left ajar for me—
	We had got so used to each other, dear,
		So used to each other, you see.

	Sixty years, and so wise and good,
		She made me a better man,
	From the moment I kissed her fair young face,
		And our lover’s life began.
	And seven fine boys she has given me,
		And out of the seven, not one
	But the noblest father in all the land
		Would be proud to call his son.

	O, well, dear Lord, I’ll be patient,
		But I feel sore broken up;
	At eighty year, it’s an awesome thing
		To drain such a bitter cup
	I know, there’s Joseph and John and Hall,
		And four good men beside,
	But a hundred sons couldn’t be to me
		Like the woman I made my bride.

	My little Polly; so bright and fair!
		So winsome and good and sweet!
	She had roses twined in her sunny hair.
		White shoes on her dainty feet;
	And I held her hand—Was it yesterday
		That we stood up to be wed ?
	And—No, I remember, I’m eighty to-day,
		And my dear wife, Polly, is dead.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	
	Sister Priscilla Evans, Secretary of the
Spanish Fork Relief Society, writes as fol-
lows:
	The Spanish Fork Relief Society, was
organized September 14th, 1857, in 4 wards.
Mrs. Rhoda Snell, President of the first and
Mrs. Lucretia Gay, President of the second
ward. We have had opportunities in the
last 16 years of doing much good, in help-
ing the poor, and assisting to build up this
Kingdom. I would especially mention the
time of the Echo kanyon expedition; when
among other things, we were called upon for
lariats. Some of our faithful mothers
worked day and night, carding and spin-
ning cattle’s hair for that purpose; they
made and brought in twenty-two lariats.
I don’t know but some of our daughters
would blush to read of such a thing in this
enlightened age; but, why should they?
I consider every trial we pass through in
this Kingdom, if done with an eye single to
its progress or defence, will give us experi-
ence and help to bring us conquerors
through, if we are faithful to the end. I
find in looking over the old accounts—
donated to the poor at different times, $1,227,
to the Emigrant fund and building of the
Temple, $294, to the meeting-house and
donations of labor $841; total, $2,362.
Through the exertions of a few, a great deal
can be accomplished.
	Sister Snell worked faithfully for 14 
years as President of 1st Ward Society,
until sickness in her family compelled her
to resign her office. Sister Gay also resigned,
on account of age and a large family to
attend to; but they are always ready with
their good counsel, and to assist when there
is a call. Mrs. Letitia A. Davis, (deceased,)
acted as Counselor to sister Gay until her
resignation, when sister Davis was called to
to the Presidency, which office she filled
honorably until ill health caused her also to
resign. The Spanish Fork F. R. Society
was reorganized in 1871 into 1st and 2nd
Districts, Mrs. C. A. Williams, President;
Mrs. Ruth Davis, and Mrs. J. Warren, 
Counselors, Mrs. Thirza Thurber, Treasurer
of 1st District. Since that time we have
donated to the poor, emigration and other
funds $225, and have in Co-operative shares,
cash and goods, $130. A meeting was called
March 11th, at which it was proposed that
we dispense with the word “Female” in
the name of the Society, which was seconded
and carried. It was also proposed that we
continue our meetings, and have a meeting
for prayer and testimony every Fast-day in
the afternoon. Your valuable paper is re-
ceived and appreciated by many. Success
to it, and every other herald of truth.

	From Providence, Cache County, we re-
ceive the following:
	Our Society was organized, April 27th,
1868. From that time, we have prospered,
a good spirit prevailing among the members.
It is a satisfaction to us to know that we
may lighten the burdens of our brethren in
helping to roll forth the Latter-day work.
Last year the sisters here donated to help to
gather the poor from the nations, in cash,
stock and grain, to the amount of $171:50.
We have also assisted our brethren towards
erecting a fine hall that is being built, and
donated means for the benefit of the Sabbath
school; have shares in the Co-operative
store, and the wants of the poor among us
have been supplied. The teachers visit the
members every month and find out the con-
ditions and feelings, and see that none
suffer for the common necessaries of life.
We hold meetings every month, and fre-
quently we have sewing meetings at private
houses, making clothes for the poor. At a
meeting held last October, the word “Fe-
male” was dropped from the name of our
Society by a unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Margaret Mathews, Prest.
	Mrs. Louisa Hammond, 	}	
	Mrs. Margaret Fife 		} Counselors
	Mrs. Emily Maddison, Secretary.

	The following letter comes to hand, from
Mrs. Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary of the
Relief Society of St. George, Washington
County:
	At a meeting in November our branch of
the Relief Society voted to drop the word
“Female” as recommended by Sister Eliza
R. Snow. During the past winter our
meetings have been well attended, and at
our first meeting in January 1873, President
Anna L. Ivins suggested to omit work and
substitute prayer and testimony as a fitting
beginning of the New Year, which was
done, and the spirit of the Lord was made
manifest in a remarkable manner.
	On the 14th of February, at a dinner
given to President Young and party, much
good instruction was given to the members
of the Society and a new interest was
awakened which has resulted in many new
members being added to our number, and a
prompt attendance of old members. We
feel honored in having our names enrolled
in this organization, and desire with our
sisters in the more favored “North,” to
help build up the Kingdom of God on the
earth.

	From South Cottonwood Ward, we have
received the following report:
	The Relief Society of this place is in a
flourishing condition, although there are
but few that attend our meetings. There
is a united desire with the sisters who are
faithful, to aid in building up the Kingdom
of God. At a recent meeting the word
“Female” passed into disuse with us in con-
nection with the Society’s name, in the
proper manner. We have additions to our
Society quite frequently; and have an inter-
est in almost every enterprise in this ward.
We are very much pleased with your inter-
esting and valuable paper, which a good
portion of the sisters take at present; and
we wish you prosperity in the enterprise.
	Mrs. Jenett Cahoon, President;
	Mrs. Lucy Bullock } Counselors;
	Mrs. Eliza Greene }
	Mrs. Ann E. Labrum, Secretary.
	Mrs. Francis Litson, Treasurer.


INFLUENCE OF A SMILE.—There is noth-
ing which makes the human face so
attractive as a bright smile. It breaks over
the countenance like the sun-light through
the rain clouds after a shower, and it enlivens
all upon whom it rests. A countenance,
ever so stolid and impassable and hard,
often becomes softened, vivacious and
charming under the influence of a smile.
There is something indescribable about a
smile, and a great deal of character is often
exhibited in it. No man or woman with a
really bad heart ever possessed an open,smil-
ing face, which brought peace and gladness
with it. Beware of the man who never
smiles, for “the motions of his spirit are as
dull as night, and his affections are as dark
as Erebus.”
	The smile of tenderness and affection
from the mother’s face greets us upon our
entry on the journey of life, and the recol-
lections of it lingers sweetly in the heart
while reason lasts. The smile of encourage-
ment in distress or sickness, is often worth
more than money or medicines. In the
domestic circle it lightens the burden of
life, and makes the hardest lot cheerful and
endurable. It is the offspring of Hope, and
the pledge of amity between friends. A
broad smile was never inspired by a bitter
thought or an uncharitable desire. In the
face where smiles prevail, happiness reigns
and a gentle human charity dwells in the
bosom of such. A smile is the language of
kindness and forbearance, and it emanates
only from the soul in harmony with nature,
and at peace with all the world.


﻿Corn is cheaper than wood for fuel in
Iowa lime kilns.
	That was a beautiful idea in the mind of
a little girl, who, on beholding a rose-bush,
on the topmost stem of which a rose was
fading, whilst below and around it three
beautiful crimson buds were just unfolding
their charms, at once and earnestly ex-
claimed to her brother: “See William these
little buds have awakend in time to kiss
their mother before she dies.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Woman was created for a helpmate for
man, and while it is his duty to provide for
and protect her, it is no less her duty to
assist him in all the minor affairs of life.
Her province is home; there she should
reign supreme, her busy steps never flag-
ging, her watchful eye never wearying;
the welfare of her children, the happiness of
her husband, her constant care. She should
strive to make her home the most delight-
ful place on earth to him, that when the
toils of the day are ended, and he seeks it
for repose, he may find in it his cares light-
ened, his sorrows soothed; that he may go
forth again to the contest with renewed
vigor and with cheerfulness and encourage-
ment in his heart.
	Domestic duties, and even, as is often the
case, household drudgery must necessarily
fall to her lot, and though she does not
shrink from the performance of these, there
are those of a different kind which have
no less claim upon her. God has given her
a mind, has bestowed upon her intellect,
and it is her duty to cultivate it—it is a
religious duty, for it was given her for a
noble, purpose that she might be her hus-
band’s pride, a fit instructress of her child-
ren, an ornament in her home. She should
not suffer the common details of everyday
life to render her manners coarse, or sour
her temper, but always strive to be mild,
refined, and polite.
	But woman—“the weaker vessel”—frail,
fragile woman, does she not need encourage-
ment and assistance? Is her life, though
spent in obscurity, exempt from trials,
snares, and temptations. Are there no
rough places in her pathway, no difficulties
to surmount?
	Her task is great, very great, and while
she earnestly tries to perform it, should she
not be strengthened and encouraged by words
and tones of affection and approval? This
is due her. If her husband desires a plea-
sant home he should prove to her that he
can appreciate one. If she must soothe his
troubled spirit let him not be impatient
should he sometimes detect a cloud upon
her brow; let him remember that poor
human nature connot always bask in the
sunshine, and that one cheering, loving
word from him might dispel the gloom
which rests upon her spirits. He desires
her to be delicate and modest, refined and
elegant, mild and affectionate, then let him
not shock her by coarse and unkind manners
and profane language.—“Magazine.”
	A cure for morbid thoughts.—Eat
mush and milk for supper, go to bed at nine
o’clock in the evening, rise at six in the
morning, and walk three miles every day.
	Sick Headache.—This is attended
with nausea and sometimes vomiting, and
is attributed to a disordered liver. Take
frequent sips of warm water until the
nausea subsides, and then occasional sips of
cold water.
	Pearl Barley, with water, simmered
to a jelly, is a valuable food for infants.
Strain all seeds, etc., before it gets cold,
Mix with due quantity of milk, or with-
out milk if preferred, and give it warm.
This is a happy medium between oatmeal
and arrowroot.
	Cleaning.—All saucepans, copper or
otherwise, and all bright tins, dish covers,
etc., ought if possible to be cleaned every
week. Spanish whiting and sweet oil,
made into a paste, rubbed on and allowed
to stand a little, then wiped off, and the
things polished with a leather and dry
whiting, will make tins and dish covers
look very nice.
	Whitening Ivory. — An, approved
method of whitening ivory that has turned
yellow, consists in heating a thin chalk paste
in a vessel over a fire, and then immersing
the ivory and leaving it until it has reached
the proper degree of whiteness. It is then
to be taken out, dried and polished off.
This method is preferred by a German
writer to one that has been a good deal in
use, namely, placing the ivory in a saturated
solution of alum for an hour, and afterward
rubbing it off with a woolen cloth, and then
wrapping it in a linen one, in which it is to
be allowed to dry.
	To clean Paint.—Provide, a plate with
some of the best whiting to be had, and
have ready some clean warm water and a
flannel, which dip into the water and
squeeze nearly dry; then take as much
whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the
painted surface, when a little rubbing will
instantly remove any dirt or grease. After
which, wash the part well with clean water,
rubbing it dry with a soft wash-leather.
Paint thus cleansed looks as well as when
first laid on, without any injury to the most
delicate colors. It is far better than using
soap, and does not require more than half
the time and labor.


﻿ THE GOOD SPIRIT.
				—
	The Prophet Joseph Smith told the people
to “get the Spirit of God, and keep it.”
What a sermon there is in these few words!
If we always had the Spirit of God, we
would never do a wrong thing; for that
Spirit leads into all truth and goodness.
When any trial or temptation besets us,
if we possess that Spirit, we are sure to
come off victorious; and have strength to
withstand all the shafts of the adversary
which are directed against our peace and
happiness. But how prone is human nature
to give way, and let some little trial bring
wretchedness for hours, and perhaps days,
when it is our duty to be happy all the
time. When we are unhappy ourselves,
everyone around us partakes of the same
feeling, more or less, and they feel bad too.
Consequently we see that it is a duty we
owe to our friends as well as ourselves to
keep the Spirit of God continually, which is
the spirit of peace. I think if we could
realize how much easier it is to keep that
Spirit, than to regain it after we have
grieved it from us, we would try harder
than we do to overcome evil; for I am sure ;
there is no one that enjoys being miserable
so well as being happy. There are two
things that we should seek and pray for,
namely, patience and charity. Without
these there can be no true happiness. Then
let us my young sisters, strive with our
might to keep the good Spirit always with
us, to help us to be Saints in deed as well as
in name, and set an example worthy of im-
itation.	
							M. F


﻿We are always complaining that our days
are few, and acting as though there would
be no end of them.
	Though a taste of pleasure may quicken
the relish of life, an unrestrained indulgence
is inevitable destruction.
	The odor of flowers is never so sweet and
strong as before a storm. Beautiful soul!
when the storm draws nigh thee, be a
flower.
	Our true acquistions lie only in our chari-
ties. We gain only as we give. There is
no beggar so destitute as he who can afford
nothing to his neighbors.


DELICACY IN CHILDREN.
				   —
	Dio Lewis relates a story of a wealthy
gentleman and lady whose family he was
called upon to attend. Several children had
been born to them, and each had lived to a
certain age and had then been taken away
by death. At the time when the aid of the
noted physician was required, their last two,
a son and a daughter, had reached the ap-
pointed age, at which all the former child-
ren of the house had been snatched away,
and the consumptive decline by which the
others had been carried off was irresistibly
and unmistakably fastening upon them.
The doctor entered, the house and spent
some time in watching the little invalids.
He then asked the mother if she would
allow him to take  the little girl into the
garden. She assented, and accordingly,
the child was carried out into the beautiful
garden which belonged to the rich home-
stead. “Which, of all the shrubs and
flowers do you think the most lovely?’,
enquired the physician of the child. After
careful consideration she selected a moss
rose bush in full bloom, as being, to her
mind, the most beautiful of all in the gar-
den. Then the Doctor asked the child if
she could not return to the house and tell
her mother he wanted a suit of her—the
child’s—clothes—One of every article that
she wore, he said to her. When the little
girl had told her mother, the latter went to
the Doctor to ascertain if the child had
understood aright; and when informed that
she had, did as requested, bringing a little
suit of her daughter’s clothes; shoes, stock-
ings, chemise, drawers, petticoats, dress,
pinafore and even to the “shaker” which
the child had worn in the garden. The
Doctor took the garments, and with them
dressed the rose-bush which the child had
chosen. Every thing except the shoes, he
made use of, cutting the stockings open and
fastening them to the bottom of the bush.
When this was done, “There,” said he, “I
will visit you again in two weeks madam.
Do not give the child any kind of medicine,
and let the bush remain as I leave it.”
	In a fortnight he called again, as he had
promised. Going with the mother to the
garden he undressed the rose-bush, which
was drooping and withered and almost life-
less.
	“See,” he said; but even now the anxious
mother did not understand the meaning of
the exemplification, but wanted to be told
still more plainly the cause of her children’s
malady. “Look at this bush,” said the
Doctor; “a little while longer being thus
clothed, and shut in from the air and sun,
it would have been dead. Now there is
still life remaining sufficient to build upon,
and have health restored by proper treat-
ment. It is the same with your children.”
And still the mother queried what she could
do for them. “Give them air,” said the
physician, “undress them, and let them
bask in the sunshine. But at first with
their heads covered.”
	His directions were followed, proper
screens being prepared in two different
corners of the garden, where the children
were daily undressed and placed for a season
to gambal in the sunlight, while the Smmer
lasted. And the remedy proved effectual,
both children commencing to convalesce at
once.
	This story, told here almost precisely  as
it was repeated to us a few days since,
we believe very many mothers would do
well to draw references from, both for their
own and their offspring's good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			LOUISE L. GREENE, EDITOR
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent.
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
					—
	The “Danbury News” wonders that “Epi-
zootic hats” have not yet appeared......Colo-
rado is going to send her ores to the Vienna
Exhibition......Senator Frelinghuysen, by
his course on the Utah bill, has managed to
make himself unpopular with the ladies
every where; a pleasing position for a gen-
tleman of refined taste(?)......A vicious colt,
in Kansas, bit a little girl the other day,
who died a few hours after......Japanese
children, between six and twelve years of
age, are to be compelled to attend school....
The bill emancipating slaves in Porto Rico
has passed the Spanish Assembly......It is
asserted that woman as a voter is an accom-
plished fact in England....The Woman
Suffragists of Michigan have asked the
Legislature to strike out the word “Male”
in the State Constitution wherever it re-
stricts the right of suffrage; and they believe
in the final success of their movement......
Hon. S. W. Hale, gallantly got out his own
team, after midnight, and carried home all
the lady passengers who came to Keene one
night, and he is now on the track for the
next Republican nomination for Governor.
......In Ireland every woman who pays any
sum as a poor-rate, has a vote in the election
of Poor Guardians......The women of Massa-
chusetts petition for a separate prison for
women; can there be women criminals
there, sufficient to justify such an act?.....
An exchange says the Beechers take to the
pulpit and to heresy as naturally as ducks
to water; Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
contemplates devoting herself to the minis-
try......All habitual water drinkers were
recently ordered by a vigilance committee
to leave Pioche City......Caldwell is spoken
of as the “weak-eyed, red whiskered child
of corruption, from Kansas.”......It is twelve 
years since Madame Adeline Patti left this
country, and she contemplates returning.
......The will of Napoleon III is sworn at
under $600,000, left without reserve to the
Empress; the Prince Imperial having but
one bequest, the Imperial crown......The
coal famine in England has led to the dis-
covery that chalk can be used for fuel......It
is estimated that nine million wooden to-
bacco pipes are manufactured in this country
yearly, and it is presumable that there are
blockheads enough to use them up......The
same postmaster has acted at Grayson
Springs in Tennessee, for forty years......
Iowa boot-blacks resolve to charge by the
square foot for shining-up customers...... 
Rome’s reigning beauty for the moment, is
said to be an Austrian, Princess Furstem-
burg......A Troy paper asks, “Shall lunatics
be licensed as murderers?”......Not a single
member of General Grant’s Cabinet is now
a candidate for President......A Vermont
dog was heart-broken at the recent death of
a horse-belonging to its master......Mrs.
Mary Monoghan died recently in New York, 
aged 102 years......A little girl in New Jer- 
sey fell into a cistern the other day; and
although she was in the water fifteen 
minutes before being rescued, she was
revived and recovered after two hours ex-
ertions in her behalf......Mrs Stanton says
the aristocracy of sex is the worst in the
world......Little boys in Oregon prevent
their rocking horses from taking epizootic
by fastening bits of red flannel around their
necks......A daughter of Zachary Taylor,
late President of the United States, Mrs.
Wood has been in destitute circumstances,
but is now to receive a pension of $50 per 
month......A Kansas youth set fire to a
school-house, because his mother would not
allow him to go to the circus......A little
[new column]
western girl, who is very strictly kept by
her parents says she would like to be a
minister that she might “holler on Sun-
day.”......A number of students in the State
University of California lately made their
appearance in last spring straw-hats and
last year dusters......A man in the cars on
the first of April whispered to the conductor
that another man present had just recovered
from small-pox; there was a general scat-
tering, but it proved to be only an “April
Fool."......The 31st ult. was celebrated in
San Francisco by the Spiritualists as the
twenty-fifth anniversary of modern “Spirit-
ualism.”......California prides herself on
the reputation of her '49ers, and grieves
that some of her first missionaries are get-
ting into trouble......One contemporary, by
reading the editorials in another, has found
out that “pain and misery have driven
many a person to desperation.”......Virginia
school girls learn to swim.


THE EXPONENT. 
		    —
	Two numbers after the present will close the
first year of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. So far
its success has been gratifying, the subscription,
list having grown encouragingly–through the
assistance of the friends of the paper in different
parts of the Territory. Yet it is desirable that
it should be still more widely read; and im-
provements which we have contemplated mak-
ing in it cannot be made without a still larger
list of subscribers. We would like to see the
printing of the EXPONENT done in an office
owned by and used for itself, supplied with all
the necessary appliances; where young women
could learn the “art preservative”—printing—
and qualify themselve for some other of the
duties and employments referred to by Presi-
dent Young at Conference. But a printing
office, to be self-sustaining, in connection with
the EXPONENT, would require to do more work
than this paper now demands, and a larger
amount of capital. We therefore ask the ladies
throughout the Territory to kindly use their
endeavors to send in clubs before the 1st of
June, for the second volume of the EXPONENT;
so that the paper may commence its second
year with increased patronage, in every sense
self-sustaining and capable of accomplishing
more good than it is at present; and with
brightened prospects for the future. A list of
premiums will be found on the last page of the
paper; and to that list we would add,
that any person, or Society, sending in
a hundred names, with two dollars a name,
will receive a sewing machine, valued at
seventy-five to ninety dollars, as we can make
arrangements. This we offer not as a prize,
but holding that those who exert themselves
in this respect should have their exertions sub-
stantially recognized, while we can procure
machines on more advantageous terms than
perhaps any of our subscribers could do.
	We would like to receive club-lists as early
as possible, so as to know the number of papers
to have printed, for it is not wise nor economic


policy to print off a large number on specula-
tion, and probably have them left on hand
—waste paper.


WORK FOR WOMEN-
			      —
	One of the most interesting and most im-
portant features of the late general Conference
was the many excellent instructive suggestions,
made by President Brigham Young, to the
mothers and daughters in Israel. He called
upon them, and especially upon the Relief
Societies, to assist in the people becoming self-
sustaining, and counseled them to save and teach
the children to save “paper-rags;” and thus
aid in supplying the paper-mill with material,
so that the paper used by the Latter-day Saints
might be made by themselves, thus keeping
at home the means expended in procuring it
abroad. He then touched upon the impro-
priety of large, healthy, able-bodied men, who
should be engaged in farming, quarrying, stone
cutting, and other suitable pursuits, being em-
ployed as type-setters, proof-readers, book-
binders, clerks in stores, tailors; and in all
such branches of labor, which were legiti-
mately work for women, and should be largely
performed by them. He wished the women
and girls among the Saints to be educated to do
all such work as belonged to women. He was
desirous of seeing the school books used by
children in Utah, made by the people here, and
this also should be done to a great extent by
the women. The female mind was naturally
better fitted for such pursuits than that of the
male. Generally speaking, girls would mem-
orize spelling, grammer, arithmetic and almost
anything taught in books, more readily than
boys. It was a mistake to have girls taught
nothing but to play the piano, and when tired
of that to go to reading novels; they should be
taught cleanliness, neatness of person, and the
duties of a house-wife; with such branches of
useful knowledge as might be desirable, as well
as music and other accomplishments; while
the useful and practical should always take
precedence, and their education should be
wisely directed in all things. The speaker
urged that measures be taken to provide means
by which the women and girls of Utah might
obtain an understanding of and make them-
selves useful in type-setting, book-making and
such other occupations as justly belonged to
them; and that they should take in hand to
furnish the schools and families of the Saints
with suitable, intelligent and truthful reading
matter; that the vast outside expenditure, for
the purchase of books, which were no better,
nor so good as many of the women of Zion
were capable of preparing, might be stopped.
The officers of the Relief Societies, and, after-
ward, all the sisters, who were interested in
the welfare of Zion, were called upon to testify
their willingness to sustain the proposed under-
taking by raising their right hands. A fair
vote was given; and unless the wives and
daughters of the Elders in Israel, prove them
selves less faithful to the trust reposed in them
than they have hitherto done—which, there is
no cause to apprehend—much good will be the
result of the suggested enterprise.
	President Young proves himself to be the
most genuine, impartial and practical “Wo-
man's Rights man” upon the American conti-
nent, as he has ever done; his counsels,
instructions and advice to women being always
directed towards their progess and advancement
in usefulness and the possession of valuable
knowledge. And as these facts are well under-
stood by the large majority of the women of
Utah, we look for a prompt response to this
direct call for united and energetic action on


their part, in furtherance of the great object
of the community becoming entirely self-sus-
taining.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	The Annual Conference was largely at-
tended and was a season of refreshing. Presi-
dent Brigham Young spoke several times,
giving much, excellent instruction and admon-
ition.
	A pleasing indication of Spring time anp
Spring weather is the sight of little maidens
culling the earliest blossoms which peep mod-
estly up from under the edge of fences and
along the brooklet’s, brink.
	Those who are called to form a settlement in
Arizona, south of the Colorada river, are mov-
ing to get there, some having started while
others will shortly do so. They expect to ren-
desvouz at Kanab and travel south from that
point together.
	The last letter received in this city from
President George A. Smith and the Palestine
party, up to the time of going to press, was
written from Jerusalem, where they had
arrived. Sister Eliza R. Snow had stood the
journey and was proving herself an excellent
horsewoman.
	In few places in this city can an hour or
two be more profitably or enjoyably spent
than in the Deseret Museum, Mr. J. W. Young
proprietor and Professor Barefoot superinten-
dent. The collection is large and varied, and a
wonderful amount of information can be
gained in it in a short time. 
	The Deseret Teachers’ Association held its
semi-annual meeting in this city during Con-
ference, and was largely attended; while the
programme of exercises elicited much valuable
information. An address by School Superin-
tendent R. L. Campbell reached us too late to
be given in this number of the Exponent, but
will appear in our next issue.
	The meeting of Sunday School Superinten-
dents, in this city, on Monday evening, April
7th, was exceedingly interesting, nearly, if not all,
the counties in the Territory being represented,
while a report was also handed in from Malad,
Oneida County, Idaho. From the reports of
the Superintendents this medium of good is
flourishing throughout the entire community.
Much interest is manifested in the schools by
parents and children, the average attendance
is large, and great good is resulting from the
labors of the superintendents and teachers of
the various Sabbath Schools. It is a noble
work, blessing those who teach as well as those
who are taught; and has the prayers and best
wishes of all who seek the welfare and growth
in grace and in sound principles of the rising
generation.


﻿LUCCA has taken out her preliminary nat-
uralization papers.
	OVER 1,000 American girls are now re-
ceiving their education in English schools.
	A female student of medicine out West,
wrote home to her friends for $28, “to buy a
man to cut up.”
	A LADY thinks it very strange that when-
ever she goes to balls with an escort, he al-
ways goes out between the dances to get
some cloves to chew.
	A PROJECT is on foot among the numerous
New York ladies for forming an insurance
company having only women for officers,
agents and policy holders.
	ETERNITY has no grey hairs. The flowers
fade, the heart withers, man grows old and
dies, but time writes no wrinkles in eternity.


﻿WHAT MOTHERS CAN DO
			       —
	To none is given greater responsibilities
than those resting on mothers in training
their children in the fear of the Lord. We
are all aware that when we receive these
precious darlings, from the hands of their
Maker, they are perfectly innocent and
pure. Now, mothers, we have these dear
little ones committed to our charge to mould
and fashion, as it were, to our own liking.
They receive their first impressions from
us, and how important it is that those early
impressions should be directed in the right
channel. We wish to see our children grow
up to be noble men and women, honorable,
virtuous and intelligent; we wish them to
be affable and kind in their feelings to each
other, and to all with whom they associate.
And it seems to me that we can have the
desires of our hearts with regard to our
children in a great measure, if we are faith-
ful in the discharge of our duties to them
during their young and tender years. If
we instil into their minds the importance
of being obedient, truthful, virtuous and
obliging, and are kind and affectionate to
them in all our acts, and thereby twine them
around us, so that they will feel that we are
their best friends and advisers, they will be
willing to listen to our counsel; and then
if they ever see that they have done any-
thing that has grieved their parents, they
will be sorry for it, and try in the future
to do better. We should not fail to instruct
them in the principles of faith, that as the
Savior, when he was upon the earth, loved
little children and took them in His arms,
and blessed them, He still loves them,
and loves to listen to their prayers. Our
children thus taught, when they are sick,
will call upon their parents, or the Elders
to lay their hands upon them that they may
recover. And so with all the principles of
the Gospel; they will grow into them, hav-
ing had them impressed upon their minds
in infancy, and they will not fight against
any of the commandments of God; but will
be like those two thousand young men
commanded by Helaman, that we read of in
the Book of Mormon, Alma, 26th chapter.
They had been taught faith in God by their
mothers, and they did not fear to go into
battle, for they had been taught that if they
did not doubt, God would deliver them.
	Not only can mothers mould the minds of
their children in relation to religious and
moral matters, but, according to the care,
thought and judgment they use for the
purpose of fashioning and developing the
physical organization, will depend very
much, the strength or weakness, good or ill
health of their offsprings during life.
	For the sake of their children, if not for
themselves, mothers are in duty bound to
learn as far as possible, and strictly observe
the laws of health. This subject will bear
much further consideration, and I hope to
see it largely treated upon in the EXPO-
NENT.		   A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.


﻿DUNLOP says that in all European litera-
ture there are not more than three hundred
distinct plots, and two hundred and fifty of
these are earlier than Christianity, and had
their origin in Asia. Almost all the news-
paper jokes have reached a venerable age;
the Irish bulls are Greek.
	NEVER give up when you are right. A
frown is only a muscular contraction, and
cannot last long. A laugh of derision is but
the modified bark of a cur. If you can
laugh out of good, or the good be laughed
out of you, you are weaker in intellect than
the fool, whose argument is guffaw and
whose logic is a sneer.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
			——
	A VINTON man brought sixty-one suits
in a justice court in one day.
	THERE is a widow in England who enjoys 
an income of $2,500,000 a year. 
	THE “Sunday Journal” of Toledo Ohio,
gives three of its columns to be used by the
Woman Suffrage Society of that city.
	AUSTRALIA proposes a free school system, 
and compulsory education, in the interest
of civilization and free institutions.
	NEVADA pays her male teachers $110:75
per month, and her female teachers $92:16.
Louisiana pays respectively $112 and $76.
	THE deepest sea-sounding ever taken
showed a depth of eight miles and three
quarters, double the height of the Andes.
	A BRAZILIAN savant has discovered that
men were on the banks of the Amazon
29,000 years ago.
	A THOUSAND American girls for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
good enough are receiving their education
in France and Italy.	
	A COLLECTION of twenty five well-made
pins has been found in the subterranean
vaults of Thebes—showing that the modern
pin is only a re-invention. 
	A RECENT medical writer of good authority
says: “It is certain that in our times, among
our brain workers, there are 999 who do not
sleep enough to one who sleeps too much.
	A CEDAR Rapids woman has invented a
machine for making lace, consisting of 100
bobbins, and on this has manufactured hand-
kerchiefs and collars and lace equal to any
imported from Paris. 
	DANIAL Webster once said, “I well re-
member a marked difference between those
of my schoolmates who had, and those who
had not, access to newspapers. Other things
being equal, the first were always superior
to the latter in debate, composition; and
general intelligence.”
	A MIDDLING sized man would weigh as
much as 4,000 wrens, and as much as 10,000
locusts. The note of a locust can be heard
1-16th of a mile. If a man of moderate size
could make his note heard at a distance
proportionate in comparison to his size, his
voice would be heard at a distance of 1,000
miles.
	EX-Governor Merrill, J. P. Casady, John
A. Elliott, S. F. Spafford and ex- Lieut.
Gov. Gue, have formed a stock company
with a capital of $40,000, under the name
of State Printing Company located at Des
Moines. The object of this association is to
manufacture patent “insides” and “out-
sides” for the newspapers of Iowa, either
Republican, Democratic or neutral in poli-
tics.
	THE number of women who aspire to the
baccalaureate of belles letters, increases from
day to day in France. Madame Ribard,
wife of a young physician of Nantes, has
passed successfully the examinations for the
degree of Bachelor of Arts. After having
presented excellent written compositions
the young woman was questioned orally in
the presence of a large audience and passed,
after a series of interrogations, brilliantly
sustained.
	A TOWN meeting was to be held at Dan-
bury, Conn., recently, to decide whether or
not to license the sale of intoxicating
liquors. On the preceding day the ladies of
the town voted on the question in regular
form, with the following result:—For
license, 2, against license, 457. On the 
following day the men voted—for license,
452, against license, 487.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿FEMALE PHYSICIANS.
			—
	At Steinway Hall last evening a very iutel-
ligent appearing audience assembled to
assist at the commencement exercises of the
Women’s Medical College of the New York
Infirmary. On the platform were several
well-known physicians of this city and other
distinguished citizens, among whom were
Judge John R. Brady and Nathaniel James,
Jr. Mr. Samuel Willetts, President of the
college, presided at the exercises, which,
after a voluntary on the organ by Mr. G. W.
Morgan, were opened with the conferring
of degrees of the following named graduates:
—Miss Abbie Luelle Fox, of Illinois; Miss
Charlotte Warner Ford, of New Jersey; Miss
Ellen Currie Leggett, of New York; Miss
Jeanette Taylor, of New Jersey; Miss Emily
Hellen Wells, of Pennsylvania, and Miss
Kate Cecilia Woodhull, of New York:	The
obligation was read to each of the graduates
by Mrs. Emily Blackwell, M. D., Secretary
of the Faculty; after which the diplomas,
were presented by Mr. Willetts.
	Prizes were then awarded as follows:—To
Miss Emily H. Wells, for the best report of
the medical clinique, “Nehmeyer’s Practice
of Medicine;” to Mrs. Sarah E. Crocker, for
the best report of the surgical clinique, a
splendid case of surgical instruments; to
the same for the best report of the eye and
ear clinique, a handsome opthalmoscope.
For report of the eye and ear clinique, Miss
E. Baldwin recived “honorable mention.”
	The valedictory was then read by Miss
Emily H. Wells, after which Judge Brady
delivered one of his characteristic humorous
and philosophical addresses, with which the
exercises closed.—“New York Herald,
March 26.


﻿FAMILY MEETINGS.
		     —
	No gathering can be more sacred and yet
jubilant, or should be more conscientiously
recorded in the memories of the participants,
than the gathering together of the “family
circle,” after seasons of separation have
elapsed; changes having taken place since
the old, happy days when the parents were
young and the children small; new associa-
tions having been formed, new branches
woven in, individual cares and responsibili-
ties having been linked with the funda-
mental household cause, which is dear alike
to each member. There are they all—the
gray haired sire and grand-sire, with his
best of all God's gifts to him, the partner
of his life, sharer of his every joy and hope,
counsoler of his griefs, his faithful wife; who
hath borne for him that group of kindred
hearts. Brothers and sisters and their little
ones all congregated once more at “Father’s
house”—fair, typical display of grander
scenes, the blest, bright future in Eternal
Worlds.
	No timid spirit, fearing to be seen or
heard is there, nor restraint is felt; one is
not higher, greater than the rest, but all
alike are free and equal.
	With all the different casts of character
comprising a medley of entertaining lights,
with all the varying tasets and impulses,
imaginations, fancies, whims, and thoughts
inspired; there still exists with all, in all,
one natural sentiment uniting heart to
heart, and making each one’s interests the
common cause of all. Love, is that senti-
ment, love which reigns supreme within
the walls of every true home. For no
abode, however richly graced or proudly
ornamented or brilliantly illumined, should
bear the sacred name of home, where love
is not, or not considered chief of all attrac-


tions. And in large families, will be found
such vast varieties from nature’s store, that
the admiration, fervency of devotion and
warmth of affection in every soul, will find
some rich enchantment where, upon to feast.
	Some natures are best pleased with their
own like, as some thoughts call for echoes
of themselves; while others most adore
their opposites. But in the “family meet-
ing,” every desire for congeniality, of a
lofty nature, can be gratified. There will
be found the jocund, happy boy; the shy,
coy maiden; genius riper grown; and pleas-
ing innocence of tender years. There music,
mirth and joyous wit abound; and holy
aspirations are awakened and expressed;
a father’s prayer, a mother’s grateful smiles;
brothers’ and sistefs’ confidence exchanged;
aunts’ kindly sympathies for childish way-
wardness; uncles’ brave, manly generosity;
nephews and nieces—all are pets with all—
each is in some particular respect a favorite
with each, and every one delighted with
the “Family Meeting at Father’s House.
								  L.


﻿SABBATH SCHOOL TEACHERS.
				—
	It is often remarked that the teacher in
the Sabbath School, can do as much to help
in sustaining the cause of Truth as can the
missionary to foreign climes, preaching the
Gospel. The same sentiment was expressed
by one of the Elders who made an address
at the late Sabbath School Concert, held in
the old Tabernacle in this city, and a new
meaning came with the words as they were
uttered there. Women, as well as men,
may be efficient teachers. How many
young ladies, belonging to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have felt
that if would be a joy and great gratifica-
tion to them if they could have the privilege
of proclaiming the glad tidings of Truth and
salvation to those who are afar off, held in
darkness and in ignorance! And some 
times has not the feeling arisen that the
greater power for obtaining a fulness of glory
had been bestowed upon man, while his
faithful helpmate was destined to follow in
the rear? Here we find all cause for envy
or jealousy in that respect obliterated.
Woman may teach, by word and by example,
the fullness of the Everlasting Gospel, as
plainly, as faithfully as man. What more
can be done for the gaining and maintaining
of the highest exaltation?
	But to truly teach a principle, it should be
practically understood by the teacher. Hence,
no pains should be spared by a Sabbath-
School teacher, by which acquaintance may
be formed with any branch of learning that
may be made beneficial to a pupil or a class.
It matters not how simple a truth may be, it
is worth impressing upon the mind of youth.
It is only by a grand compilation of divine
truths, each one small in itself, that great
wisdom is wrought; and no teacher of youth
should be above explaining the simplest
fact which might puzzle the young learner.
	There are greater responsibilities resting
upon teachers of Sabbath Schools than many
are aware. As their missions are no less
than those which the Elders are called to
perform in going forth to teach the nations
of the earth, and warn them to repent of
their sins, should their condemnation be less
if they allow themselves to be slack and
careless in performing their duties in the
Sabbath School, than that of the unfaithful
servant who is sent abroad? The Sabbath
School teacher should seek as constantly and
fervently, the spirit of faith and revelation
to direct his efforts, as should the mission-
ary upon the seas or in foreign lands.


THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Sarah E. White will hereafter
manage the Bloomfield, Mo., “Republican.”
	Charlotte Cushman’s health seems to be 
quite broken down. She has finally given
up her public engagements in the South and 
West.	
	IN Rockford, Illinois, Mrs. Wilder the
young wife of a Chicago capitalist, publicly
horse whipped John White, proprietor of
one of the principal hotels in that place.
	A WHITE marble statue of Queen Vic-
toria, weighing seven tons, has arrived at
Windsor Castle, and is to be placed in the
vestibule of the state apartments. The 
Queen is represented sitting on a chair, with
a dog lying by her side. 		
	THE author of a memmorial of Alice and 
Phoebe Cary, states that, looking through
the entire mass of their papers, she found
not a single word of their own, refering in 
any personal way to themselve. They 
shrunk from writing letters; they kept no 
diaries of thought or incident.	
	A LADY of Harwich, Mass., attended the
town-meeting, and presented her claims in
opposition to a road which was to pass 
through her land. As she ascended the 
platform, the house was hushed to silence, 
she was listened to with interest, and 
secured the vote in her favor. So much for 
Cape Cod. 
	IN several parts of England, there appear 
to have been established Mechanic’s Insti-
tutes for mutual improvement, in which
young women have the same privileges as
men, and in one of these, Miss Jewsbury,
an authoress, well esteemed, attends the
lectures to a class of young women, who 
take the name of mechanics also.
	CHARLAMANT has a revolutionary pen-
sioner, in the person of Mrs. Thirza Wing,
for services rendered by her late husband
in the campaign of 1777, at the time of
Burgoyne’s surrender at Saratoga. She
is now ninety-five years old, enjoys good
health and all her mental faculties. Her
pension was increased in 1868 from one-
fourth to full pension. 
	When Laplace, met the late Mrs. Somer- 
ville for the first time, he  said, in his lofty 
way, “Madam, there have been only three 
women who have undersood me—yourself,
Caroline Herschel and a Mrs. Creig, of whom 
I have never been able to learn anything.”
“I was Mrs. Creig,” said the modest little
woman. “So, then, there are only two of
you,” exclaimed the philosopher.
	A NUMBER of young women have united
to form the “New York Business Woman's 
Union,” and are now occupying a large house,
at No. 222 Madison Street. The design of the
association is to secure good lodging accom-
modations for respectable women whose
incomes are small. There are about eighty
rooms in the house, which are to be let fur-
nished, at very low rates. 
	A DRIVER, angry with his horses for some
fancied offence, was about to lash them 
severely. A lady interrupted him by in-
quiring the way to a certain street, to a cer-
tain man’s house, both of which she knew 
very well. But the driver too gallant not 
to answer the lady’s questions, had oppor-
tunity for his temper to cool, and restored
the whip to its socket without striking a 
blow.


IF the beautiful and the good are not
always united, we can only say that they
ought to be so, for they belong to each other
as the blossom and the fruit.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


]For the EXPONENT.
	A WARNING.
		—
	Ladies, “beware of wolves who come to
you in sheep’s clothing.” Do you not
know their object when they come to you to
get you to do some fancy work for them?
They wish to form an acquaintance with
you so that they may tell you how smart
you are, and that your “husbands do not
appreciate you, nor furnish you money
enough, and it is altogether too bad,” etc.
Perhaps they will treat you to some little
niceties very frequently, until your judgment
and good sense fail you, if you are not aware
of their motives and do not shun every
appearance of familiarity with them. It is
not worth while to barter your peace of
mind and bring discontentment into your
homes, for the sake of receiving attentions
from a set of worthless, heartless scamps.
Yet I have known wives and even mothers,
who would thus sell themselves and dis-
honor their households, by reason of their
vanity. And I could name more than one
woman, who stands on dangerous ground
to-day, and who, on account of a lack of
firmness and the circumstances surrounding
her, had better beware. Often it has been
repeated and proven, some women do not
comprehend that polished manners and rich
clothing do not make gentlemen.
							L. M. SMITH.


[﻿For the Woman’s EXPONENT.
	    AN INCIDENT IN PLURALITY.
				     —	
	When that true woman and gifted lady,
“Grace Greenwood,” was here, she delivered
a lecture on that inexhaustible and interest-
ing theme “The heroes and heroines of
humble life. Several communications have
of late appeared in the EXPONENT on the
subject of plural marriage. A Gentile
writer, lately puts forth the idea, that the
solution of the “Mormon Problem,” will be
effected through the growing dislike of the
rising generation of “Mormondom,” to this
principle. The foolish, extravagant display,
and inconsiderate expressions of many of our
young people, partly justify this conclusion;
but the surface expression of a portion of
society, is not the heart-index of the people
at large, in their different avocations and by
their firesides.
	When first I came here from the outside
world, there was much that being new,
struck with a strange thrill, and surprised
me. In a settlement some distance from
here, was a large family whose clothing was
chiefly of home manufacture. The third
wife, had two little girls who really needed
new dresses; but how to pay the weaver,
was the serious question. Said an elder
daughter of the first wife; “Get the yarn
ready and I’ll take it home with me” (thirty
miles away) “and weave it for you.” “O!
no Maggie! I couldn’t think of it! You
have so much to do, and need the pay for
your work,” responded the mother of the
little girls with a burst of feeling. The young
woman replied; “I think it a pity if I can’t
do that much for my father’s children! and
I will.” Noble, generous girl! It touched
me then, and has never lost its first effect,
when I have thought of it since. She had
not the money to purchase dresses to present
to those children, but she gave them what
money could not buy—the labor of love
from her own hands, and a place of equality
and honor in her own heart, as, “my father’s
children.”
	I hope this true “heroine of humble life”
will forgive the liberty taken; for it serves
to illustrate that such writers as I have
mentioned, have not seen all; and the picture


is justice due to many of the rising genera-
tion of “Mormondom.”
								A. J. C. 
Salt Lake City, April, 1873.


﻿	WOMAN’S VOICE.

	       	     Farmington, Davis Co.,
				         April 8, 1873.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	As a lover of the true principles which
God in His great mercy has again restored
to the earth, I feel, with many of my sisters,
to offer my “mite.” I have been a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints from my childhood, and can realize
that the hand of the Lord has been over His
Saints. He has caused streams of water to
burst forth, and the desert to blossom as the
rose. I was in Missouri at the time of the
mobbing and driving of the Saints from
that land and I realize they were miracu-
lously delivered from their enemies; and
the same God has led and guided us to the
valleys of the mountains. I have been in
polygamy for eleven years, and feel thank-
ful to my Father in Heaven, I have never
felt like saying anything against that pure
principle. We know, of course, it is a trial;
but has not God said He would have a tried
people? “After much tribulation cometh
the blessings.” I can truly say I am a hap-
pier woman since I have obeyed this com-
mandment. If we would strive to be
humble and prayerful, it will be a lesson in
the great school which will prepare us for
an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of
God.
	I take the EXPONENT and feel amply paid
in reading its interesting pages, especially
the spirited letters of Sister E. R. Snow.
				       	Mary S. Clark.


﻿WOMEN LOVERS.
		      —
   Perhaps you do not know it, but there are
women who fall in love with each other.
Woe be to the unfortunate she, who does the
courting! All the cussedness of ingenuity
peculiar to the sex is employed by “the
other party” in tormenting her. She will
flirt with women by the score who are
brighter and handsomer than her victim.
She will call on them oftener. She will
praise their best bonnets and go into ecsta-
cies over their dresses. She will write
them more pink notes, and wear their “tin
types,” and when despair has culminated,
and sore-hearted Araminta takes to her bed
in consequence, then only will this conquer-
ing “she” step off her pedestal to pick up
her dead and wounded. But then, women
must keep their hand in. Practice makes
perfect.
					     Fanny Fern.


﻿CHRISTIAN graces are like perfumes—the
more they are pressed, the sweeter they
smell; like stars, that shine brightest in the
dark; like trees, the more they are shaken,
the deeper root they take, and the more
fruit they bear.
	GOVERN the appetites, or they will become
tyrants, under whose bondage all that is
noble in human character, will be crushed
out of existence. Besides, indulgence of
the appetites in time destroys health; and,
what is life without health?
	NEVER go back, unless you find you are
wrong. What you attempt, do with all
your strength. Determination is omnipotent.
If the prospects, are somewhat darkened, put
the fire of resolution to your soul, and kindle a
flame that nothing but death can extinguish.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				   —
	SMIGGLES says  that the most thrilling
tale he ever listened to was that of a rattle-
snake.
	A PAYING vein of silver has been dis-
covered on the head waters of the Arkansas
river, in Colorado.
	THE New Orleans “Times” says that the
daily interest on what that city owes is four
thousand dollars.
	THE best indication of a let up of hard
times, according to the Miami “Republi-
can,” is the large increase to marriages.
	THE directors of the Commercial National
Bank of Cleveland have voted to add
$260,000 to the bank’s capital.
	A SOUTHERN Kansas paper thinks it can
increase the population ot the town by offer-
ing to insert birth notices free.
	IT costs $80,000 per annum to keep up the
city government of Denver and supply the
aldermen with whisky straight.
	Beecher had an audience of one hundred
and ninety-eight at Rochester, and the
society realized $1:17 after paying expenses.
	IT is the general belief that a decent,
respectable man is safer on the outskirts of
the Modoc camp that in a New York street
car.
	It is believed that in less than two cen-
turies English will be the dominant lan-
guage, and will be almost exclusively
used in scientific works.
	THE Jewell “Clarion” man says he is able
to keep afloat by drinking his coffee without
sugar and turning his collar three times a
month. He thinks that’s economy.
	THE first Russian newspaper was pub-
lished over one hundred and sixty years
ago, under the special patronage of Peter
the Great, one of its principal contributors.
	SEDALIA wants to give the cold
shoulder to 1,100 colored folks, citizens of
the town, by asking the Missouri legislature
to cut off the Ward containing them from
the city limits.
	THE table on which the Declaration of
Independence was signed is still in exis-
tence in South Carolina. It has always
remained in the Laurens family, one of
whose ancestors was a “signer.”
	THE foreman of the Newborn “Journal
of Commerce” is only sixteen years old.
He and his brother, aged fourteen, set up in
a day fifteen full columns of bourgeois.—
“Eastern Paper.”
	THE “Bridge of Sighs” was a passage
in the gloomy bridge connecting the ducal
palace at Venice with the prisons, through
which condemned prisoners were led to
their death.
	THE Cathedral of St. Peters at Rome, is
four hundred and sixty-three feet; St.
Paul’s, London, four hundred and four feet;
The Monument, Lundon, is two hundred
and ten feet high.
	THE foreman of the “New Northwest,”
Portland, about as neatly gotten up a paper
as comes to this office, is but 16 years old.
the paper is set up in brevier and made
ready for the press each week by the fore-
man and two younger brothers.—“Lafayette
Courier.”
	IN Louisville some kindly disposed people
buy nuts and scatter them in the park for
the squirrels, and it has been discovered
that the tiny quadrupeds are regularly
robbed by boys. When we consider the
depravity of the juvenile heart we wonder
where all the good men come from.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	INTEMPERANCE.
		    —
	Intemperance is taking a dreadful hold
upon some of our young men. To see the
young going to destruction, is very, very
painful to those who have the interest of
this people at heart. But what can be done?
	Our leaders have faithfully warned the
lovers of stoong drink of the consequence
of giving way to this fatal appetite; fatal
alike to body and mind, to interest here
and hereafter.
	What can a woman say against this in-
sidious disease, (for it is nothing short of a
disease,) when those having authority to
teach have failed to arouse the young to a
sense of their danger? Who can care for
the confirmed inebriate? Is he not a hiss
and a by-word, to both old and young, to
the wise and the foolish, to the religious
and even the wicked who follow not his
ways? Who can trust a drunkard? It
looks as though the fathers of our young
men are much to blame; those who set the
example by sometimes getting drunk which
is worse than habitual drunkenness. Young
men often appear to think it is something
to laugh at. They try it once, twice, thrice,
and so on till the demon fairly enters and is
seldom if ever dislodged. The beastly
habit becomes a deadly Upas tree, blasting
every good principle and virtue in them,
sinking them beneath the level of the brute
creation. It is sad to see men who might be
godlike sinking themselves lower and lower
in such degradation; but who can stay them?
The Lord Himself reasons with them, but
to no purpose, tells them the consequence,
yet still they go on reckless of everything.
Every effort to reclaim seems lost on the
inebriate. Anger, tears, or prayers, all, all
are wasted. There is, in London, a picture
of a Pandemonium. Standing before it one
can imagine the effects of strong drink.
Drunkards in tbeir madness might have
been taken by the artist for his model, the
likeness is so terribly striking. Strong
drink is like a serpent; it fascinates its
victims, throws its folds around them, fold
upon fold, until it has completely crushed
them, and leaves them a shapeless mass,
loathsome to behold. Kind mother Earth
opens her pitying bosom to receive the
wreck intemperance has laid low, she is
his last and only friend, for no one, however
near by nature’s ties, can really grieve for
the drunkard when he is on the earth no
more.
	Not alone in strong drink is intemperance
fatal. It is destructive in every form,
especially in dress. Here it attacks the
young girl, ever crying “give, give!” In-
temperance in dress has filled more brothels
than any other passion, has caused more
desolate homes than any other female vice.
Girls, beware of this passion; indulged in,
it is as fatal as strong drink; it has driven
kind fathers and husbands to ruin, shame
and death. Study to dress well, but never
beyond your means. A calico dress may be
made as graceful as one of satin or velvet;
it is not the cost of the material but the
goodness of the wearer, that makes a dress
beautiful. Many will dress costly yet never
look well.
	Love of money is often without one spark
of generosity, and like the prison whose
walls closed by mechanism, it slowly and
silently crushes out every thing that is noble
or beautiful in the soul of its victims, leav-
ing nothing but dust and ashes.
	What a vast field intemperance covers!
It is the first and last cause of sin, misery
and death. Beware, Oh! beware of intem-
perance!						     MARY.


A  HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it. 
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
To meet the demand of an increasing buslness we
have added an essential addition to our
 R E T A I L  R O O M,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
  This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -	-	-	-				$18	00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -	-	-	-				   26  00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	 -	-			   34	00
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				  48	00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies 
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have & Splendid Line of LADIES’ DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York expressly for
this trade.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H.   WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock ef confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
		    WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misiepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? “ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a jou[-]nal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little Is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to roports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,	     $2.00   	1 Copy six months,  $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	      10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

