VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1872. No. 14.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Horace Greeley was born on the 3rd of
February, 1811, and died on the 23rd of
November 1872.
	The case of Stokes Is not yet decided.
And Jim Fisk is said to have a successor in
Nooman Henry Smith of Wall street.
	The wife of Father Hyancinth is re-
ported a very amiable, intelligent and at-
tractive lady, and devotedly attached to her
husband.
	In his late message to the Senate and
House of Representatives President Grant
does not forget Utah, but he fails to mention
Woman Suffrage.
	“A Crowning domestic disappointment,”
is what a San Francisco paper styles a Chi-
naman, If John could read that wouldn’t
he feel complimented?
	The gas stokers' strike, in London, is
likely to terminate in their being compelled
to “strike alight” once more at the old price,
though the new “strike” has not the appear-
ance of being “all gas.”
	An Exchange says on the question
“Shall ladies ride astride?” “It does not
seem half so dangerous for a lady as for a
politition to attempt it.” To us, it would
seem very unbecoming for either.
	Two 180 pound balls suspended by a cord
from the teeth, while holding a 100-pound
ball in each hand; and the shouldering of a
500-pound cannon, is a story of rather large
dimensions to be told of a woman on the
London stage, but it is said to be true.
	General O. C. Maxwell, a gallant officer,
who was wounded five times in war, while
fighting for his country, shot and killed
himself at Dayton, Ohio, recently, as if de-
termined to die by violence at last, though
tempted Providence had so long and kindly
guarded him.
	In Tofsfield, Massachusetts, an aged
couple have lately celebrated the 60th
anniversary of their wedding day; and the
kind old gentleman had the candor and good-
ness of heart to acknowledge, as many a one
might who never does, that “under God he
owed his success in life, mainly to the
untiring devotion of the good woman at his
side.”
	The Distinguished Swiss scientist, Pro-
fessor Carl Vogt, is shortly to visit America.
Excursionists, journalists, lecturers, and
travelers of every profession and of every
nation are, without pausing to realize the
fact making it plainly manifest that this is
the day of which it is spoken, “Many shall
run to and fro and knowledge shall be in-
creased.”
	Indulgence in the “social glass” and
then in the contemptable jug is daily prov-
ing the destruction of thousands who, in
other respects have every chance for becom-
ing distinguished as men of honor and
superiority. Will the time ever come when
such individuals will listen to that impor-
tuning in which exists their only safeguard,
“Touch not, O taste not the wine!”
	Reports of the progress of the opening
band of subscriptions for providing for the
celebration of the 100th anniversary of
American Independence—the Centennial, to
be held at Philadelphia, in the year 1876—
are unfavorable. The people “don’t see it.”
They have, many of them, lost sight of the
old Constitution; and no wonder. Their
teachers and rulers have laid it aside.
	In some parts of Japan, married women
have a strange method for securing their
loyalty to their husbands. That no one may
be tempted by their beauty, they disfigure
themselves by shaving their eyebrows and
blacking their teeth with fine betal nut; a
precaution which is said, however, to be
unnecessary, as beauty among them is very
rare, and after marriage they fail rapidly.
	To prevent her money being taken by
burglers, should any happen to call in her
absence, on leaving home, a New York lady
concealed $450 in the ashpan. Contrary to
her expectations, her husband went home
before she did and in starting a fire, inno-
cently made a burnt offering of the green-
backs. That lady’s precaution against
thieves is rather too flimsy to recommend
itself.
	An exchange avers that in Yorkville,
Tennessee, they are determined to have the
gospel in peace, if they are compelled to
fight for it, as proven by a man named
Sharkey being promptly shot on the spot for
causing disturbance in a meeting there.
But it is bettr to offer timely warning before
shooting, and possibey preserve order by
threats, as some of the gentle worthies out
West imagine they do some times, than to
really, positively “shoot!’
	New York papers tell of a fearful
explosion of 500 pounds of nitro-glycerine
in Yonkers, N. Y., by which two young
men were blown to atoms, another mortally
wounded and a fourth, severely but not
fatally injured; and general havoc produced
for miles around, in so much that many
believed that an earthquake had taken place,
and very great consternation prevailed.
Thus daily disasters are occurring on every
hand and in every manner.
	A young artist in England has the
wonderful capacity of seeing with the naked
eye the most minute objects, which ordin-
ary eyesight can only distinguish when
highly magnified; such as the infusoria
contained in water. Scientists who have
examined into the case pronounce the mag-
nifying powers of his vision about five
hundred diameters. This singularity of
sight was occasioned by a transformation
of the eye caused by a peculiar disease when
quite young.
	Queen Victoria is living in the plainest
possible style, and is said to spend much of
her time in the open air; walking and riding
often crossing the Dee and always using in
her rides, an uncovered carriage, a phaeton
or a wagonnette. No ceremonious a-do at-
tends her, but the royal carriage is preceded
by an outrider, who sees that the way is
clear, and the Queen goes quietly on with a
smile and a bow for every one who chances
to meet her. A “picnic” in the woods is
frequently enjoyed by the Queen and her
ladies, and at such times no chair of honor
is provided for her, but she finds a seat on
the clump of a tree or any other suitable
place. This lady has never given to her
subjects a more befitting lesson than the life
of humility, virtue and sense which she
lives may afford as an example.
	The educational advantages of the
country are progressing so rapidly, and
have, indeed, already gained so great an
eminence that there is no longer any excuse
for men or women to cast reflections on cir-
cumstances or waste time in vain regret
that they have not opportunities of basking
in the hallowed sunbeams of intelligence.
Time and application with present and
coming capacity, will make philosophers
and scientists for the people. But will the
light obtained be used to elevate and enoble
the nations yet to be, or will degeneration
still continue to control the paths in
which we tread, mocking reason and
bidding defiance to the laws of nature and of
nature’s God! We can only prognosticate
what will be the result of certain courses.
	Affairs In France assume a serious
character. Late dispatches say that trouble
is apprehended, and present indications
justify such apprehensions. The monarch-
ists, it is stated, have endeavored to force a
vote, without delay, on a proposition to
censure the Government in a rigid manner,
and repudiate the republic formally. A
proposition in an other form, making con-
cessions which were then thought satisfac-
tory, and a motion to postpone the vote on
the main question for a day, prevailed. A
vote was afterwards passed on a question
censuring a minister and the Government 
for courting popularity with the municipali- 
ties. It is reported that MacMahon, who
is commander-in-chief of the French army,
and Ducrot, who holds an important com-
mand, refuse to obey orders of others than
the monarchists of the Assembly. A civil
war in France is almost threatening to
follow shortly, as the people are opposed to
a monarchy; but might accept the Napoleonic
Empire.
	Dr. Chapin, who delivered the funeral
address of Horace Greeley, stated that his
last words were “I know that my Redeemer
liveth. It is done.” The funeral of this
great man, which took place at New York
on the 3rd inst., as reported, was the grand-
est and most imposing ever witnessed
on this continent. The corpse was viewed 
by 50,000 people, and at the funeral were 
present 100,000 strangers. The working
people from all parts crowded in to take
a farewell glance at the face of their friend
and benefactor, and feelings of regret and
signs of emotion were demonstrated both by
acquaintances and strangers. Thurlow
Weed said of him among other eulogiums, 
“Looking back over Greeley’s life I think
he showed as much unselfish ambition as
any man that ever lived. His whole life
was given to opposing injustice and oppres-
sion. His character was perfectly pure. He
had no vices that I know of, and I was most
intimate with him in all matters. He was
fearless in the expression of his belief in
what was right. His whole aim was to do 
good.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿BIRTHDAY MUSINGS.
 		  —
	TO A FRIEND.
		  —
	We are falling,
	We are falling,
In the sear and yellow leaf,
	Time is calling,
	Time is calling,
Telling us that he's the thief
	That is stealing,
	That is stealing,
All our youthful form away;
All the time he keeps revealing,
He is making us his prey.

	Hair is shewing,
	Hair is shewing,
Silver threads within each braid;
	Eyes are growing,
	Eyes are growing,
Dimmer in our later grade.

	Steps are slower,
	Steps are slower,
As the downward path we tread
	Voice is lower,
	Voice is lower,
Bow’d is oft the weary head.

	Shall we sorrow,
	Shall we sorrow,
That our life is in decline?
	There’s a morrow
	There’s a morrow
"Where eternal suns will shine!

	My Mother Earth
	My Mother Earth!
In thy bosom we shall sleep;
Thou alone and not another,
Shall those sacred vigils keepl
	Till the morning,
	Till the morning,
When the resurection, comes—
Then with all a Brides’ adorning
Christ will take us to our Homes—

	Ready waiting,
	Ready waiting,
All prepar’d by Beauty’s hand,
	All dilating,
	All dilating,
On the scene I now command.

	God of Heaven!
	God of Heaven!
Hold us that we never fall!
	All forgiven,
	All forgiven,
God and we be All in All
G. S. L. City.	 	  HANNAH T. KING.


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
			Salem, Utah Co., Utah.
					Nov. 20th 1872.
Editor Exponent:—
	We held a meeting ou the 21st inst., of
which I send a short report. Meeting was
opened by singing “How beautious are their
feet,” prayer by Counselor Mrs. Lucinda
Jackman; minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Counselor Mrs. L.
Jackman then addressed the meeting, spoke
upon the training of our children, the duty
of mothers towards their daughters, urging
them to set patterns worthy of imitation,
look after the sick and needy; said she
was pleased with the spirit of interest
which the sisters manifested in all that per-
tains to the Society. In compliance with
the suggestion of Sister Snow a motion was
made and seconded that we drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society;
carried unanimously, a report of the same
to be forwarded to the Exponent. Meeting
adjourned until first Thursday in Decem-
ber. Benediction; by Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Davis.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.
				—
				Nephi, Dec. 1st 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
According to the suggestions  Sister Eliza
R. Snow, at a meeting of the Relief Socitey.
held at this place on the 17th of October, the
word “Female” was dropped from the name
of our Society, by a unanimous vote. You
[new column]
will please excuse me for this delay in report-
ing, as I have a large family to attend to
and it seems almost impossible for me to get
time to write more than I am obliged to for
the Society. And another tning, I feel my
incompetency to write any thing worthy the
scrutiny of the public eye. I do not feel
proud to see my name in your paper; still, I
like to do my duty if I know what it is. I
have set out for salvation in the Kingdom
of our God, and am determined with the
help of my good husband and the watch-care
of my Heavenly Father to win. Our Society
is not as flourishing as we could wish, some
of the members live quite a distance from
our place of meeting, and some are careless,
I think, about attending our meetings, but
there are the faithful few that feel it aduty
as well as a pleasure to go to meeting, and
do all they can to comfort and bless the
poor.
				M. L. Bigler, Secretary.
				  —
				Big Cottonwood,
					December 2nd 1872.
Editor Exponent:--
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held 27th November, the word
"Female" in connection with the name of
the Society was dropped.
	We meet semi-monthly, and are making
the best of our time at improvement. We
are trying to gain the victory over diffidence
and backwardness in speaking, and we feel
thankful that our Record Book abounds in
good instruction given from each to each.
	After singing and prayer our meetings
are devoted to teaching and telling our expe-
rience in spiritual and temporal knowledge,
which we consider a very good plan for
mutual improvement. When we deem it
necessary we have sewing meetings, which
are pretty well attended, still, not so well as
they should be, but as a general thing it is
the few who accomplish the greatest amount
of good.
	Our financial condition is good; we intend
very soon commencing to build a hall for
our own use, as we have over 10 shares in
the Co-operative Store and some means on
hand. This, with our industry the cming-
winter enables us to look forward to beocom
fortably situated before this time next year
	We intend giving the very young ladies
some socks to knit, for the benefit of our
building, so that each, no matter how young,
may have an opportunity of lending a help-
ing hand, besides stimulating them to be
liberal and industrious.
	We also look to the necessities of our poor
so that they are not in want.
	Your very valuable and interesting paper
is increasing in esteem and popularity, the
general feeling with us being a desire that
it may meet with every success.
		HARRIET W. BRINTON,
						President,
	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
		1st Counselor and Secretary,
	LAVINA HARPER,
		2d Counselor.
	ELIZABETH BOICE,
		Treasurer.

	PROVO CITY, Dec. 5th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	A meeting of the 1st Ward Relief Society
was held at the School House on the 5th inst.,
Counselor Mrs. Ann Jones Presiding, Presi-
dent Mrs. Caroline M. Johnson being absent
on account of sickness. After singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Ann Needham, minutes of
the preceding meeting were read and ac-
cepted; Counselors Mrs. Ann Jones and Mrs,
June Allman gave some good instructions
and comforting words. Several of the sisters
[new column]
bore testimony to the truth and expressed 
their desires to do right. The Secretary 
read from the EXPONENT a letter from Miss 
Eliza R. Snow. A vote to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Relief
Society as suggested by sister E. R. Snow
was carried unanimously.
	Our Society was organized the 14th of 
May 1868; since that time up to May 14th 
1872, we have disbursed to the poor $309;
paid for public expenses $130; we own 
shares in the Provo woolen factory to the 
amount of $200, and in the Co-oporative
Store to the amount of $75, and have in the 
Treasury $96.56. Besides the above dona- 
tions, there have been 297 days work done
by the Society.
	MRS. SOPHY MECHAM Secretary.
	MRS. SARAH H. SANDERSON Tres.	

	Bountiful, Dec. 9th 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Directly after Conference, at our usual
meeting a unanimous vote was taken to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
our Society, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion. There is a good feeling
in our Society and a desire with the sisters
to do all they can to help the poor. We
meet twice a month for labor and many of
the destitute and aged have been made to re-
joice in the faithfulness of our exertions. Not-
withstanding many of the sisters live quite
a distance from the place of meeting, they
remember the time appointed and a portion
of them assemble together. THE EXPONENT
is hailed with pleasure. 	E. H. Barlow.
					—
FOURTEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS,
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 7th, 1872.
	General Retrenchment Meeting of the
ladies of the several Wards. Singing: Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard; Singing:
Minutes of last meeting read by assistant
Secretary Miss Maggie Mair, and accepted.
Opportunity offered for the reading of min-
utes of meetings held by different branches
of the Society. President Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze read the minutes of the last meeting
of the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Associ-
ation in the 11th Ward; Secretary Miss Abby
Piggot read minutes of two meetings of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association
of the 8th Ward. Counselor Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, (President of the Physiological
class,) said she had no apology to make but
regretted that she was not as well qualified as
she would like to be to treat upon the subject
before the meeting, namely, Physiology. It
is a great and important study for every
woman who is or ever expects to become a
mother. We may, by not understading the
was of health, inflict grievious wrong upon
ourselves and those who will come after us.
“True Science and true Religion walk hand
in hand;” the Science of the formation of
the human body is a most wonderful and
beautiful study. Counselor Mrs. Woodruff
said she was pleased with the subject before
us; the longer she lived the more necessity
she saw for the daughters of Zion to inform
themselves upon these matters, which apper-
tain to our present and future salvation.
Mrs. Elenor Pratt did not feel prepared to
treat upon the Science of Physiology but
felt it a very important text. We all can
gain practical knowledge on this subject by
observation. Mrs. W. East felt that the
laws of life, the book of nature were among
the greatest objects of interest to us all. A
temperate life and a prayerful heart pro-
duce a fruitful mind. Further remarks
were made by Z. D. Young and Mrs. Wat-
mouth, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing; benediction by Counselor 
Mrs. Sarah M. Kilmball.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A mother who thinks more of the beau-
tiful face and elegant form of her daughter
than of her health and education, is likely,
by neglect of the latter to injure and perhaps
destroy all traces of the former. Healthy
employment for mind and body, with
suitable relaxation and recreation, is the
surest incentive to happiness that can be
found; and without health and happiness,
beauty cannot exist. There is no exercise
better calculated to assist in finely develop-
ing the female form than the various duties
of housekeeping moderately and judiciously
engaged in. The varied motions required
in sweeping floors and making beds, reach-
ing, lifting and swaying are excellent
methods of expanding the chest and giving
proper growth and elasticity to the body
and limbs, besides engendering the spirit of
industry and a desire to be useful in the
young. Carding, spinning and winding
yarn are also healthful employments, but
should not be too rigorously performed at
an early age.
	A tea made of peach leaves is a sure cure
for a kidney difficulty.
	A tea made of chestnut leaves, and
drank in the place of water, is said to cure
the most obstinate case of dropsy.
	A tea made of ripe or dried whortle-
berreies, and drank in the place of water, is
a sure and speedy cure for a scrofulous diffi-
culty, however bad.
	Cruellers.—Two eggs, two tablespoon-
fuls of melted butter, two do of new milk,
four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, one
teaspoonful of soda, salt, and flour enough to
make it easy to roll. Cook in hot lard.
	Sponge Roll.—Three eggs, one cup of
sugar, one of flour, one teaspoonful of
cream of tarter, half a spoonful of soda,
rubbed carefully through a sieve. Bake in
a dripping pan, spread with jelly when
warm, and roll.
	Stewed Macaroni.—Boil two ounces of
macaroni in water, drain it well; put into a
saucepan one ounce of butter, mix it well
with one tablespoonful of flour, moisten
with four tablespoonfuls of veal stock, and a
gill of cream, add two ounces of grated par-
mesan, one tablespoonful of mustard, salt
and cayenne to taste; put in the macaroni,
and serve as soon as it is well mixed with
the sauce and quite hot.


SEVENTY YEARS AGO.

	A dear aunt, who is now more than
eighty years old, and still on the sunny side
of life, furnishes us many interesting and
delightful stories which are all the more
beautiful because we can rely on their truth-
fulness; all the more fascinating, because of
the little tinge of romance which her child-
like innocence unwittingly, yet artistically,
draws occasionally, and all the more vener-
ated because they are forty, fifty and seventy
years old and have never been published.
We select the following:
	“It always did me good to wash. Many a time
when a girl at home, I would get up in a morn-
ing feeling half-sick and very miserable. Af-
ter breakfast I would say to mother, ‘I think
I will wash to-day.’ ‘Well, mother would
say, ‘now I shall look out for a good day’s
work, and am sure it will be done.’ Mother
never said to me ‘go to work;' never. But
she often tried to keep me from doing as
much as I wished. Once, I remember,
when I was but ten years old, my sister,
who was two years younger, and I came home
from school at night, mother was weaving


and had used up all the filling that was
spun. ‘Now girls, she said to us, ‘to-mor-
row you will have to stay at home and card
and spin so the loom need not stand idle.'
I felt bad about that, for I disliked to miss
my lessons. Father and mother were in-
vited out for the evening, and would not
return before twelve at night. As soon as
they were gone, I said to my little sister,
'Susan let us go to work and card, and spin
the yarn to-night while mother is gone, so
we can go to school to-morrow.’ We there-
fore set to and I had to contrive to keep
Susan awake; but when father and mother
came home at 12 o’clock I was just finishing
off the last threads. ‘Girls! What are you
about! Put that wheel away this minute!’
said mother. And I did, but the yarn was
spun and sister and I went to school next
day as usual. O! how I used to carry on,
when a girl! Always up to some such
caper to surprise and disappoint, yet please
my mother.”
	The fine dark eyes of the aged narrator
still twinkle and dance with the love of fun
and mischief, and her voice is still musical
and sweet as it trills a little, low laugh, after
telling a story of the long past. And the
listener can only contemplate that such were
America’s daughters seventy years ago.
Where could such a girl be found to-day?
What does the fashionable education which
our young ladies must now acquire to be
considered accomplished and refined, fit
them for? Certainly not for the life of
practical usefulness and sound judgment
which the well earned and substantial
education that venerable lady received, has
made her the happy delineator of.


﻿DECOROUS.
		—
	A Tennessee writer gives the following
telling description of the ostensible prodigy:
“Those who have not seen him ask what
he is like. He is like everything. He’s a
simoon trom India—a gentle zephyr from
the downs of Devon; a whirlpool off the
coast of Norway—an eddy in a New England
trout brook; a tornado from the plains of
Texas—a soothing, summer breeze from the
hop yards of Minesota; an incarnate denun-
ciation—a merciless sweeping Iconoclast; a
miser in praise—a prodigal in abuse; a
modern reversed atlas, who stands on, in-
stead of carrying the world; an over-power-
ing egotist, without vanity; the very light-
ning-bug of possible reformation; the modern
Hercules, who undertakes the job of
cleaning the Augean stables of society,
government, religion, morals, laws, physic,
education—everything.	He’s the credit
Mobelier; the credit financier; the prospec-
tive sextillionaire—the next President of
the United States; the embodiment of
international; a huge syndicate; a “blase”
traveler, who has seen this little world, and
who aspires to a jaunt over Saturn and
adjacent planets. He’s the chain-lightning
orator of the new dispensation; he’s the
reckless bull in the China shop of the world;
he’s a Rochefort on a large scale; a little
Commune all by himself; he’s a self-wind-
ing machine, eontinually throwing off
intellectual hypothesis, and scattering them
broadcast over the world; he’s a human
mower and reaper—mowing down (in his
Imagination) follies and errors, blunders and
iniquities, and reaping all the fame that
comes from improvements time works in its
natural course, he is in fact—Train, who
when dead, can never have an imitator.”


﻿A WRITER says: “It is not the drinking,
but getting sober, that is so terrible in a
drunkard’s life.” Why get sober at all,
then, says old Smiggles.


﻿FLOWERS.
			     —
	Good temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	John Wesley, at the age of seventeen,
wrote: “I do not remember to have felt low-
ness of spirits for one-quarter of an hour
since I was born.”
	It is worthy of notice that, while second
thoughts are best in matters of judgment,
first thoughts are always to be preferred in
matters that relate to morality.
	Depend upon yourself; riding upon the
shoulders of another is dangerous and foolish.
If you are not cast off into a disagreeable
place, you might be let down in a very
ugly manner, when you least expect it.
	Esteem an act of benignity greatly prefer-
able to munificence; the former is peculiar to
great and distinguished persons; the latter
belongs to flatters of the people who court
the applause of the inconstant vulgar.
	There may exist a sort of love where
the beautiful beacon of untarnished trust
has ceased to shine; but such is not the
love which lights the heart with hope; the
eyes with sympathy and the soul with
gratitude. Such love is only found within
the temple of unbounded, fairly-tried, and
unshaken confidence.
	Life’s Voyage.—In the voyage of life a
man may be wrecked as is a ship. Con-
science, however, is an anchor that will in
most circumstances insure him safety. It
is to be remembered, nevertheless, that like
the anchor, conscience may be carried away,
and so ensure ruin and wreck.
	Revenge is a momentary triumph which
is almost immediately succeeded by remorse;
while forgiveness, which is the noblest of all
revenge, entails a perpetual pleasure! It
was well said by a Roman emperor that he
wished to put an end to all his enemies by
converting them into friends.
	Where education has been entirely neg-
lected or improperly managed, we see the
worst of passions ruling with uncontrolled
and incessant sway. Good sense degener-
ates into craft, and anger rankles into malig-
nity. Restraint, which is thought most
salutary, comes too late, and the most
judicious admonitions are urged in vain.
	The following is an old Jewish story: “A
good man had a good wife; but because
they had no children, they mutually put
away each other. The good man married a
bad (a heathen) wife, and she made him
bad (a heathen;) the good woman married a
bad (a heathen) husband, and she made
him good.”
	The fruits of the earth do not more
obviously require labor and cultivation to
prepare them for our use and subsistance
than our faculties demand instruction and
regulation, in order to become upright and
valuable members of society, useful to
others, or happy and ourselves.—“Barrow.”
	The house will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other’s feelings, no meek submission to
injuries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and a half a dozen and you will have an
effective blaze. There are other fires subject
to the same condition.  If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					   Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	Froude is ill and his lectures have been
postponed......The will of Mr. and Mrs.
Greeley leaves the property to the two
daughters......A bill has been introduced at
Washington asking the grant of a pension of
$2,000 yearly to the widow of the late Gen-
eral Meade......The public debt statement
shows a decrease of the debt, during the
month of December of $1,198,229......Thiers
consents to remain President if the minis-
ters will withdraw their resignations......In
Lake county, Oregon, the Indians are caus-
ing considerable trouble; all the settlers on
Link river are reported murdered......A
crop of cotton raised this season on the
Pacific coast, turns off over four hundred
ponnds to the acre......Cedarville, Surprise
Valley has had a conflagration......Somebody
has discovered a splendid ledge of stone
coal near the Central Pacific Railroad,
twenty miles from Virginia City......Chris-
tina Rosetti is in a decline......In the Senate,
on the 2nd inst., the Chaplain in his opening
prayer referred to Horace Greeley as one
whose pen had been a benefactor to man-
kind......Prior to the failure of the banking
house of Bowles Bros., New York, Josie
Mansfield is reported to have been a deposi-
tor in that establishment to the amount of
$37,000......The Secretary of the Treasury
reports excess of imports over exports for
the United States in trade with foreign
countries, during the fiscal year, ending
June, 1872, $182,548, 991......Sumner would
have the names of battles with fellow citi-
zens discontinued on the army register, and
never placed on the regimental colors of the
United States......Seamen pronounce late
storms on the lakes, the heaviest ever
known......Brooklyn’s spice mills have re-
cently been consumed by fire......Ball play-
ing, military drill, rowing and archery are
among late recommendations of healthful
exercise for women......Susan B. Anthony
and fourteen other women, charged with
illegal voting, have been arraigned before
United States Commissioner Storrs......A
small muff of black fox fur, in some places,
costs $300......Hereafter the Prussian Gov-
ernment will use only American paper for
its bank notes......A recently deceased
French gentleman bequeathed to the
widows of Paris an annuity of $6,000......
While E. Cady Stanton and Joslyn Gage are
both for Grant, the husbands of both these
Iadies voted for Greeley, it is said......Edin-
burgh has decided that the lady medical
students in the University are entitled to
be educated and take degrees......It is pro-
posed to erect a printers’ monument to the
memory of Greeley.......Two high stepping
colored boys supply the place of a Baltimore
doctor’s horse......Thieves lately entered the
Allegany Hospital at Pittsburgh, Pennsylva-
nia, and carried off the bedclothing and
furniture......The Vienna Exposition is to
have a 200,000 gallon saltwater acquarium.....
A free use of lemon juice for rheumatism is
prescribed by English and French physi-
cians......A cave, of several hundred tons,
occurred in the Eureka Consolidated mine
a short time ago, but no one was injured......
Sumner tells a touching story of the wreck
of the “Assyria,” an English freight vessel.
......A locomotive on the San Jose Railroad
was recently thrown from the track by a
cow, locomotive turned over and four cars
badly smashed. How’s that, will the owner
of the cow be required to pay damages?......
The Greeley electors of Arkansas, it is said,
have assembled and cast the vote of the
State for B. Gratz Brown for President, and
N. P. Banks of Massachusetts for Vice Presi-
[new column]
dent, charging fraud upon Grant’s victory
......A lady in Louisville has discovered
diamonds—her diamond rings which were
carried away and hidden by rats......A re-
ward is offered of $1,000 by the San Fran-
cisco police, for the arrest and conviction
of an unknown desperado.


﻿PRESERVE HEALTH.
					—
	The worst spendthrifts in the world are those
who squander their health. For, without
health, success in any profession is uncertain
if not positively unattainable. But even should
victory crown the ambitious hopes and unre-
mitting labors of one who has outraged the
laws of nature, there is little enjoyment to be
realized when deprived of health, compared
with what might have been its accompaniment.
A great man once remarked to a young pro-
fessional, “I am certain I could have performed
twice the labor, both better and with greater ease
to myself, if I had known as much of the laws of
health and life at twenty-one as I do now.”
	No study can be of more importance to the
human family than that of the human physique
its self. For only with proper understanding
of the corporeal structure of a system, can the
promotion of its usefulness and longevity be
safely attempted or permanently secured. And
one of the most reprehensible features in modern
prodigality is the little attention paid to the
divine regulations of economy in regard to
health.


﻿SELF SUPPORT.
					—
	THE SUBJECT before us is an important one—
if clearly considered, the one most important
of all subjects, to every reasoning being. One
can do for one’s self that which cannot be done
by another, either for good or bad; and also
that which can not be done for another, be that
other never so near and dear. Self reliance and
self labor are the only true methods by which
one can become intelligent or rich in any sense.
Men and women who have distinguished them-
selves as persons of honor and usefulness, have
carved their own roads up the rugged hill of
science and philosophy. Those who are lifted
from one notch to another and pushed along
continually by the strength and influence of
friends, unless they have used all the power and
force they are themselves possessed of, have no
just claims to wealth and reputation which the
exertions of others may sometimes enable them
to reach.   It is not safe to trust to such posses-
sions, for they will slip away, when the friends
who founded them, weary of proping them up,
or are themselves taken hence.
	No amount of gifts can aford the satisfaction
that well-earned goods will bring. It is better
to obtain less of wealth, or honor, and feel the
gratifying assurance, safety, and that self con-
fidence which inspires to renewed efforts, than
to live in dread of being cast upon one’s own
resources with no knowledge of what may
follow, no self supporting aim to pursue and no
courage to invent means of rising step by step
to higher and more worthy positions. The best
and only safe course to be taken by persons in


such conditions, is to go to work earnestly and
in as short a period as possible, in reason and
honor, work themselves into more reliable and
snbstantial conditions, where self support will
be at once necessary and easy, and suitable.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	A VERY enjoyable season was spent at the
Ward party in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on the evening of the 12th inst., young
and old mingling sociably together, and all
participants appearing to meet with pleasure
and satisfaction.
	THE LADIES of Utah will all be gratified to
learn from her own pen of the good health
of Miss E. R. Snow, and the satisfaction she
had realized in journeying up to the 17th ult.,
the latest date contained in her communica-
tion, which appears in this number of the
EXPONENT.
	IT IS	 worthy of note that in the splendid new
meeting house of the Sixteenth Ward in this
city, which is building under the jurisdiction
of Bishop Kesler, a room is set apart and is to
be dedicated for the express use of the Relief
Society. And the Society deserves thecompli-
ment, for their words and works show that they
are an energetic and faithful association.
	THE INTERIOR of the First Ward School
Room, to which our attention was lately
drawn, and the merits of which, with well in-
formed friends, we had the pleasure of dialogiz-
ing, is certainly worthy of recommendatory
notice. The extraordinary deftness with which
all its conveniences are arranged for the accom-
modation and satisfaction of the friends of
education who may enter it, is truly gratifying
even to casual visitors.	
	THE TERRIBLE results attendant on dissipa-
tion and a disregard for morality and temper-
ance has again been woefully depicted in this
city, in the case of Mr. and Mrs. Griffiths. In
the forenoon of Friday, the 5th inst., Griffiths,
insane from the inordinate use of spirtuous
liquors, shot and severely wounded his wife,
with the intention of killing her; afterwards
shooting himself in such a manner as to pro-
duce the desired effect. Yet, we are informed
that Mr. G. was, at one time, a steady, respected
and very reliable man.
	“THE FIRST Ward Free Library',” a hand-
some assortment of valuable works, the titles
of which, with the names of their donors are
cleverly written on neat cards which, in con-
nection with maps and charts, grace the
carefully finished walls of the room, is deserving
of special observation. And much credit is due
to the Bishop of the Ward, brother Joseph
Warburton, who, we understand, is himself
the skilfull manager of these concerns. A fine
brick building, the completion of which will
very shortly be attained by the industrious and
persevering people of the First Ward, is soon
to take the place of the small adobie one.
	JULIA HORN Burton, whose funeral took
place in this city on the 29th ult., still living in
the hearts of numberless sincere and devoted
friends, will ever be remembered as one whose
pure and lovely life was an example worthy of
imitation by the most reflective and assiduous
reformers. "As a teacher in Sabbath School,"
remarks Bishop Thomas Taylor, offering her
works as a pattern for others, "she could not be
surpassed. She so won the affections of the
children with whom she was associated that
her class often became so large that it was
necessary to divide it, while the beautiful
morals she taught both by word and actions
will never be forgotten by those Sabbath
School schollars who so loved her." It is


not difficult to see that such a teacher
of youth should be a most exemplary daughter,
sister and wife. She often said during life,
that she had not the slightest dread of death
but hoped, when she did die she might have a
nice funeral. And that desire was certainly
gratified. For on the occasion of her funeral a
very large and attentive concourse of friends
listened to most excellent and instructive
discourses from Elder John Taylor and Presi-
dent D. H. Wells, and a very impressive prayer
by Elder Joseph F. Smith.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PLEASANT COMMUNICATIONS.
					—
					FOUNTAIN GREEN,
							Nov. 26th 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I am always pleased to welcome your
paper, and truly glad that the women of
Utah have a chance to let their voices be
heard and their views known. I am sur-
prised that there are so many sisters who do
not take the EXPONENT. I have sent some
of mine to Manti to be circulated among the
sisters there. All parents who are desirous
of placing a paper of truth in the hands of
their children should have a chance to do so,
and the EXPONENT is certainly worthy to be
called such. I had much rather my children
would read but one paper like WOMAN'S
EXPONENT than all the novel stories that
were ever manufactured.
				MARIA J. WOODWARD.
				   —
				SALEM, UTAH CO.,
						Nov. 28th 1872.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	I am a reader of the EXPONENT, one of
its first subscribers; watch for its coming
with interest, delight in its perusal, think
every one the best, desire to see it prosper
and enlarge with choice matter selected from
the many who write for its beautiful col-
umns. May God bless the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and all connected with it or who fee
an interest for it.
						M. P. KILLIAN.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
						—
			STEAMER “Minnesota,”
				800 miles from Liverpool,
					November 5th, 1872.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	Here I am in the midst of the ocean. We
embarked, as we had anticipated, on the 6th.
The sea was calm and sailing pleasant till
towards night, when the winds became too
strong for the sails—they were all furled,
which produced a rolling motion of the ves-
sel, conducive to sea-sickness with some of
the passengers. We have had considerable
rough weather, but now all is calm. I have
experinced a slight touch of that disquieting
malady called sea-sickness, just enough to
make my appetite inexpensive for two or
three days, and to cause a little cleansing of
the stomach for my future benefit.
	The short period of time since leaving my
Mountain Home has introduced me to much
that has been interesting; my health has
been good, and thus far my endurance of
the fatigue (if anything I have experienced
is worthy to be called such) has been beyond
my expectations. 		*	*	*	*		
	On entering Davenport I remarked that
they could not run street cars there, but I
was mistaken, for presently I saw one de-
spite the narrowness of the streets, some of
which are very handsome. Davenport is
a pleasant, stirring town, but, like all other
towns and cities I have seen since I left Salt
Lake, it seems destitute of sufficient land to
give elbow-room to the streets.


﻿We stopped two hours in Buffalo—a rainy
morning, but I wanted to see Buffalo and
took a long ramble for that purpose. From Buf-
falo we went to Niagara—crossed into Canada
on the new suspension bridge, over which
the R. R. trains pass, to view the Falls; and
after witnessing those scenes of nature in
her display of the grand and beautiful, we
recrossed on the old bridge. From descrip-
tions by various sight-seers, my imagination
had been whetted to an appreciative idea, so
far as the majestic grandeur of the scenery is
concerned; but its beauty—so chaste so in-
describably delicate, I had not anticipated.
In fact, without actual, personal view, I
never could have comprehended such a
harmonious combination of power and deli-
cacy. Imagine for a moment a body of
water falling in a magnificent volume, to a
great distance and forming in its descent a
mantle of pure, sparkling white, of ever
changing folds, over a robe of the most
delicate shade of green that either the dye
of art or of nature can produce—at times the
green appearing as if approaching the sur-
face—at other times seen obscurely—the
chaste and beautiful snowy white ever pre-
ponderating; while from the depths below,
springs are constantly ascending, apparently
as far as the eye can reach, and then drop-
ping in heavy mists on the ever humid
surroundings. But after so many able pens
have descanted upon this subject, it seems
like folly for mine to attempt it. I leave it,
after drawing the conclusion that Mark
Twain was induced to speak indifferently
respecting this celebrated curiosity, lest he
should be suspected of doing or thinking for
once like somebody else.
	As yet I have had but little opportunity
for writing, the passage being rough makes
it difficult.
						E. R. SNOW.
	P. S. Still pleasant, and all right.
Nov. 17th, 180 miles from Queenstown.
								E. R. S.


﻿[FOR the EXPONENT.
			TEMPERANCE.
				  —
	I know that many readers will glance
with almost contempt at this heading. Yet,
it is the very essence of happiness, and is
but very little understood by three-fourths
of the human family. Even those who
speak and write in behalf of temperance,
very many of them, abuse it shockingly.
The strictly temperate person will live to be
old. This is a bold assertion but the truth of
it can be proven any, or every day. Tem-
perance enters into the smallest minutiae of
life, and beautiful indeed are the lives of
the strictly temperate. They may not have
genius or brilliant talent. But if by circum-
stances placed side by side with, or in
antagonism with Genius or Talent, for any
considerable length of time, Temperance
will be sure to win and wear the laurel
wreath of fame. Washington was temperate
in all things, if what we read of him be
true. Does history furnish a more beauti-
ful character or one more venerated? He
conquered more by the wisdom of his
counsels than by his sword. His mind, being
calm and clear was able to receive and retain
the most perfect impressions of what would
be best for the Country he loved so well!
And those impressions he carried into prac-
tice as perfectly as it was possible for fallen
nature to do, which was the foundation of
the famous Constitution under which all
should be free. Contrast with the history of
his life and death that of Napoleon Bonapart.
Bonapart had genius and talent unbounded,
could dazzle the minds of nations; could as


it where, hold nations in his hands. Yet
he lost all, and a man very much his inferior
was his conqueror.
	Wellington was temperate; calmly he
watched his brilliant antagonist, moving his
men from place to place, avoiding collissions
as often as possible. Finally he conquered
Bonapart, came out of the strife and lived to
be a very old man. Wellington, although
very wealthy, lived exceedingly plain; he
slept on a camp bedstead and was in no way
given to luxurious living.   It is the lack of
temperance that makes human beings unhap-
py. Think of the most temperate people with
whom you have been acquainted and do you
not know they have made you admire them
whether you would or not? They, command
respect without asking for it, by the force of
their example. In history we find but few
Washingtons, whose careers’ have been more
beautiful at the close than at the beginning.
	But let us turn to the history of the
development of this Territory. Temperance
has been the watchword of President Young,
and those associated with him. In all things
they advise to take things calmly. In the
late crusade did not President Young show
the most-perfect moderation? Calmly he
has led the people of this Territory, advanc-
ing little by little, growing greater and
greater. And if we, as a people, will be taught
by those whose right it is to teach, we must
become the greatest people on the face of
the globe. And if we will be temperate in
all things our lives will be beautiful and our
deaths but triumphs.


﻿MISTAKES.
					—
	Which should be first with us, our own
private interests, or the common cause of
humanity? When viewed in a true light,
neither need be neglected for the sake of
the other; for they are so closely inter-
woven that they both terminate in the same
thing. But unless we are vigilant and ever
on the alert we are apt to neglect the very
duty we should perform, to accomplish some-
thing else of less import, but which, at the
moment appears to be of greater magnitude.
	A short time ago a sister came to me to 
tell why she would not be able to attend
the Relief Society meeting that afternoon.
She must go up town for some cause, and
there were quite a number of little “every
day” concerns that she must look after, in
consequence of which it would be impossible
for her to be present at the meeting.   But 
not one of the hindrances which she related
was of really grave importance, or anything 
that could not be performed at another time
without danger of loss or inconvenience.
“And all this must be done, and only the
meeting neglected,” I remarked; that which
should be a first consideration is placed at
the last and”—“Say no more,” interrupted
my friend, “I can go as well as not, and I
will.” Thus we often mistake the least for
the greatest objects of our present mission.
								  M. S.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th, 1872.


THE WORLD'S Fair, at Vienna is to have,
as one of its grand attractions, a huge “baby
show.” Baron Von Schwartzenboren was
the originator of the idea. Many fashionable
mothers will take a peep in the nursery at
hearing of this who have never-thought of
troubling themselves about it or its puerile
occupants for months before. But their pale,
pent-up, misused babies will not take the
prize; unless rosy, robust children, belong-
ing to mothers of sense, who allow them
to breathe the fresh, pure air, play in the
dirt and let the sun shine on them, are kept
at home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Lillian Edgerton takes the man side
of the woman question for $100 to $150.
	ADDIE L. Ballou treats of the “Common
Conflict” which means “Moral and Religious
Revolution Inevitable,” for $50 to $100.
	REV. Mrs. Celia Burleigh asks $75 to $100
a piece for lectures about “Homes and
Houses” and “Women and Children.”
	SUSAN B. Anthony treats of “Women
already Voters” and the “Bread and Butter”
qustion for $50 to $100.
	MISS Susanna Evans’ lectures on “New
York; Its fashions and Foibles," was recently
given before a large and enthusiastic audience
at Tremont Temple, Boston.
	ANN Campbell, a Canadian dairymaid,
having survived the milking of fifteen gen-
erations of cows, has died at the age of one
hundred and thirty-one years.
	IT will be interesting to the ladies to
know that the ex-empress Eugene now
dresses almost entirely in red and black, and
that her beautiful hair is beginning to show
threads of silver.
	THE death is announced of Donna Juana
Meria do los Delores de Leon, widow of Sir
Harry George Wakelyn Smith, K. C. B.,
the first baronet who, after distinguished
military service was appointed Governor of
the Cape of Good Hope in 1847.
	PRINCESS Louise has received her first
welcome to Balmoral as the Marchioness of
Lorn, having been escorted with the Mar-
quis from the lodge to the castle by a
torchlight procession of servants and ten-
antry of the estate.
	MILLE. Eardon, a dressmaker, who recently
tried to drown herself in the Siene, exclamed:
“We have no liberties!”   When she was
pulled out, instead of thaking her pre-
servers, she cried out: “They don’t even
allow us to drown ourselves.”
	A LADY, who says that her opinion is
based on close observance, says that men,
as a rule, regard their wives as angels for
just two months—namely, a month before
marrying her and a month after burying
her.
	A SITUATION-seeking young lady noticed
an advertisement for one to do light house-
keeping. She wrote immediately to the
advertiser, asking where the lighthouse
was, and if there was any way of getting to
the shore on Sundays.
	MRS. D. Clair R. D. Everse Spettigne, of
Boston, spoke in Washingford, Vt. recently
on “Love and Marriage.” The lecture was
set ten minutes earlier than the usual hour
in order to give the gentleman who intro-
duced the lecturer plenty of time to call off
her name.
	MATILDA Phillips, sister of Adelaide Phil-
lips, the singer, pluckily rescued a young 
American, who was drowning at Genoe, a
few weeks ago, reaching him just as he was
sinking for the third time, and helping him
to land, while several gentlemen stood by
and made no attempt to aid her—although,
as she naively added, in telling the adven-
ture, “they were all kind enough after he
was landed.”
	A STRONG minded woman in Detroit
made the following gentle reply to a politi-
cian who had called at her house to get her
husband to go to the polls to vote: “No,
sir, he can’t go. He’s washing now, and
he’s got to iron to-morrow, and if he wasn’t
doing anything he couldn’t go. I run this
'ere house, I do, and if any one votes it'll be
this same Mary Jane.”


WHAT MAKES A LADY.
				—
	The various interpretations which have
been given to the word “lady,” provoke a
little thought on the subject. 
	The uneducated ascribe the term to those
who are not compelled to labor for support,
and who know of no better way to spend the
hours than in idle luxury or self gratification;
when, in truth, they may be the very ones
who, above all others, foil to exhibit the
least indications of a true lady. They scoff
at honest toilers, and turn disdainfully away
from those on whom they are dependent for
the food they eat, and the fine clothes in
which they delight to array themselves.
	In the estimation of some it is only neces-
sary to dwell in a large and elegant house,
or be able to ride out on pleasant days in a
carriage, in order to be a lady.
	“Oh! she is a lady now,” is often sarcasti-
cally given as a reason why old acquaintances
are allowed to pass unnoticed. Thus often
are old friendships broken, because, on one
side, persons having been raised from
obscurity and poverty, to a condition of
greater material comfort, which naturally
gives them an air of dignity, are misjudged
by the friends of other days, as proud, when
every reflecting woman must admit that
the fault is frequently on the other side.
How often is there in this way an impassable
gulf between those who were once on terms
of pleasant intimacy! Conscious of inferiority
in many respects, the less fortunate shrink
from the customary salutation, and the other,
surprised by the unusual coldness, without
thinking what the cause may be, fails to
make the necessary advances. In conse-
quence, bitter feelings of envy and jealousy
are engendered, and they who are already
destitute of sufficient selfrespect, sink still
lower in the esteem of the others, even
while they assume an air of independence
and contemptuous forgetfulness of their
former acquaintances.
	It is to be regretted that the general ten-
dency is to become vain of newly-acquired
possessions, and that many forget early
poverty. But there are more exceptions to
the rule than we sometimes think. Worldy
prosperity, indeed, is not necessarily incom-
patible with true nobility of character; on
the contrary, is often most helpful in the
exercise of generous purposes. The true
lady realizes this, and governs herself
accordingly. Is she rich? She recognizes
real worth in every woman who manifests
it, and endeavors to maintain a kindly atti-
tude towards all. Does she happen to be
poor? She will not envy her neighbor who
is blessed with more comfortable surround-
ings, but will “rejoice for her sake,” and
strive to meet her with generous sympathy.
She is well aware that silks and laces do not
make the lady, be they never so costly, and
knows that she is not herself exempt from
fulfilling the requirements in a lady. *	*
A wife will be a better wife, a mother more
a mother, if intellectually her husband’s
equal.	*	*	*	*								
Ladies may be found among women 	*	*
who have had but few educational advan-
tages. 	*	*	*	*	*			
	We affirm that she who cultivates virtue,
and dares to exercise all her mental powers,
from the very symmetry of her being, is a
“lady,” or better still, a “noble woman.”—
“Woman’s Journal.”


AMONG the ancients, when persons were
newly married, they put a yoke upon their
necks, or chains upon their arms, to show
that they were to be one, closely united,
and pulling equally together in all the con-
cerns of life.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	FRANK Leslie is building an elegant villa
residence at Saratoga,  A  dock 600 feet
long is to be constructed, fronting the house
and skirting the lake shore.
	JUDGE Ingraham, of New York, decides
that a person’s watch comes under the head
of necessary articles and connot be taken by
by creditors.
	PROFESSOR Baird, of the Smithsonian In-
stitute, has returned and commenced work
on his report to Congress in relation to the
food fisheries on the Atlantic coast.
	ADVICE from Paris say that two-thirds of
the priests in Paris are ready to follow 
Hyacinth’s example—as soon as they can
find the essential American widows with 
$75,000 a piece.
	RECENT submarine investigations, carried 
on under the direction of the British Associ-
ation of Science, have demonstrated the fact 
that the sea is affected by the heat of the
sun only to the depth of one hundred and 
twenty feet.
	EXTRAORDINARY EYE-SIGHT.—The “Ex-
aminer” favor the building of a telescope
of extraordinary power to bring Mars with-
in 4,000 miles, and as the works of man,
such as roads and cities, might be seen if
Mars is inhabited.	
	A VIGNETTE of the late Thaddeus Stevens, 
the “Great Commoner” of Pennsylvania has
just been completed at the Bureau of Engrav-
ing and Printing in the Treasuary Depart-
ment, and will be used upon either the 
national currency or revenue stamps. The
likeness is perfect, and the work is pro-
nounced as one of the finest pieces of en-
graving ever executed. 
	SOME time ago, M. Chevreul, having acci-
dentally taken up a forgotten dish in which
there was a hardened saline substance, found
to his surprise that the surface was inter-
rupted by what appeared to be a soft
vegetation. The little moisture contained
in the salt in a vicious state at the bottom
had filtered through, partly melting the 
adjacent parts, which had led to their form-
ing protruding crystals; these by capillary
attraction, had drawn up more moisture,
followed by a similar effect, so that in course 
of time a sort of shrub, composed of crystals,
had grown up. At a late sitting of the
French Academy, the learned gentleman 
returned to the subject, and produced a
watch glass on which a new arborescent
matter has been formed of a vitreous appear-
ance, and of the thickness of only one or
two milimetres, while the “shrub” which
had grown out of it was nearly two centi-
metres in altitude, and of an average
thickness of one centimetre, but instead of 
being transparent it was opaque. All round
there was on the surface nine small
“pimples,” which were likewise without 
transparency. In another watch glass there
was a similar substance which had assumed
the appearance of satin by the formation of
minute crystals on the surface. Reasoniag
on this matter, Mr. Chevreul admitted that
the vitreous substances contained moisture 
in the first two specimens, but added that 
the third which, presented a superficial crys- 
talization, must have had much less. At all
events, this was a new proof of the molecular 
motion which could take place even in solid
matter. And to the same cause must be
attributed the change of color which is ob- 
served in stained glass when it is exposed
for many years to the action of the sun.
Might not this explain the mellowness of 
tint we admire in old stained glass, and 
which our own artists are unable to imitate?
—“Galignani’s Messenger."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EXTRAVAGANCE AND MARRIAGE.
				   —
	Those who like, with Mr. Buckle, to
collate social phenomena and draw general
deductions from them, may just now gather
excellent material for the process. As an
example, we find the London journals dis-
cussing with earnestness the prodigious
cost of beef, bread, coal and female attire;
and looking at the law reports in some of
the papers, we find a most unusual number
of cases of breaches of promise in which the
man is the defendant. The significance of
this is probably beyond dispute. Among
a hundred men who have engaged them-
selves, a certain percentage of cautious
natures will be found who, on the contem-
plated step becoming imminent, are more
and more disturbed by the thought of its
pecuniary difficulties and responsibilities.
These frightened swains retreat, and a cer-
tain proportion—probably a small one—of
the outraged damsels seek such solace as the
law will accord them.
	There can be no question that a high cost
of living discourages marriage, or that the
discouragement of marriage is hurtful to
the state; but it is easier to point out the evil
than the remedy. We cannot put down
the price of butcher’s meat by special legis-
lation, or resort to sumptuary laws to regu-
late how many yards of tulle, or lace, or silk
a woman may be permitted to wear. Yet it
is true that the absence of all restraint in
these matters, and the excess threatened in
them, is equivalent to setting a premium on
immorality and a tax on wholesome domestic
life. The sight of men straining every
nerve to support an expensive family, and
often going behind hand in the struggle and
losing all hope and faith in the future,
is surely no strong incentive to part with
the immunities of celibacy. It is a sepctacle
which might be supposed to touch the heart
of any woman—but it does not. Doubt-
less there are circumstances attendant on
modern civilization, other than the expen-
siveness of living, to discourage marriage.
Many, however, who profess to have made a
close study of the subject pronounce this
consideration the paramount one in London
and it is fast becoming so in New York.
The “Daily News” of the former city, de-
clares that the proportion of actions for
breach of promise increases there daily, and
that a perusal of the evidence shows that
dread of the expense has usually led to the
defendant’s breach of faith. It also signifi-
cantly observes that a study of the cases
tried shows “that there are women quite
equal to laying a plot for a verdict of big
damages after drawing out the first letter of
endearment from their future victim.”
There seems to be less delicacy, less dread
of publicity on the part of forsaken damsels
than of yore, and some indeed in late cases
have behaved as if they thought that next
to being married, an explicit promulgation
of the fact that somebody at some time has
wished to marry them is a thing to be
accounted desirable.
	The journal we have quoted calls attention to
one odd feature which it would puzzle the au-
thor of the History of Civilization himself to
account for. This is that the breach of promise
epidemic, as raging of late in England, takes
the form of a run upon special classes of per-
sons. Thus, within three weeks of the time
its article was published, the "News" says
that more than twenty farmers have been
mulcted for faithlessness to their sentimental
engagements. At a period more remote,
the linen drapers came in for their share of
punishment—young ladies employed in
their shops  being usually the persons
aggrieved. Presently, no doubt, we shall
hear of a rush being made for the doctors
and—leaving out, of course, the vast body of
poor curates—a determined charge may be
expected on the ranks of the clergy. The
soldiers, whose profession it is, as General
Damas observes, “to make widows, not
wives,” will then come in for their share of
expiation, the sailors may follow, and so on,
until the whole round of society receives its
due share of attention. After this experi-
ence, extreme weariness will take the place,
we may be sure, of the easy confidence with
which men flirted and committed themselves
in the olden time, and ladies with a taste for
admiration will be put on lenten fare as a
vicarious atonement for the wounded hearts
of their litigious sisters.
	In all seriousness, the omens suggested
by these numerous suits for breach of prom-
ise form a subject for deep and careful
reflection. There are by no means so many
cases here, where the facilities for divorces
are greater; but the fear of marriage respon-
sibilities—the feeling that men of a certain
social position have no business with the
luxury of a wife unless possessed of a hand-
some competency—is unmistakably gain-
ing ground among us, and possibly the
practical objection set up of late by so many
in England may likewise become prevalent
in America. The subject is well worth the
best thought of students in social science,
and, indeed, of all right-minded people who
can make use of a new and powerful argu-
ment against that extravagance in modern
living which is confined neither to the Old
world nor the New.—New York “Times.”


﻿BOOKS AND CONVERSATION.
				—
	If half the time which is spent in idle
gossip and talking fashionable nonsense,
was used in gathering grains of gold, in
storing the mind with a certitude of things
as they are and have been and are likely to
become, very much more real enjoyment
than is experienced would be realized by
many. In selecting reading matter, some-
thing that will be beneficial in some form
should always be chosen; something that
will serve to enliven and enlighten the
powers of intellect. Not always the same
subjects, but a diversity of interesting and
instructive themes. And in like manner
should our associations with friends be con- 
ducted. And yet, often will a word or
sentence be dropped in light conversation
which will prove a coagent to numerous
brilliant and delightful strains of thought
which, but for the accidental stroke upon
the keynote, might long have slumbered
or never have been born. And in reading
simple anecdotes, people will frequently
happen upon some little dint of inspiration
which will prove the foundation to a great
and sublime infusion of meditations, and
may be given to the world in glowing rich-
ness and beautiful originality.
								L.


﻿MISUNDERSTANDING.
	“None are so blind ast hose who will not
aee.” How some people love to misconstrue
the words and motives of others! Why
can’t they have sense enough to realize
that they, like others, and others like them-
selves, are mortal beings, and all alike are
subject to mortal weaknesses and mortal
woes? I have but little charity to extend to
those extraordinary “good” people who
watch for iniquity in others and seek to
hide their own baseness under a cloak, so
black as to deceive almost themselves, and
make them fancy they are pure and


truthful when they are nothing but budgets
of the vilest cant and hypocracy! Only imag-
ine a woman who, over such a prayer as the
following, for an unfortunate fellow creature
who had become so desparate as to commit
suicide, and her friends, could write dark
misrepresentations concerning the teachings
of a man proven to be a firm maintainer of
truth, integrity, virtue and honesty! “May
the tender Father of us all, who saw all the
agony of her soul, gather and enfold her in
His merciful arms, and also extend to the
aged mother and sister, far away on the
shore of Michigan’s mighty lake, His tender
consolation in this hour of deepest sorrow.”
And the falsehoods told and written by
these foolhardy-people, in this instance—are
believed by many, in preference to the
truth! And yet we must not be annoyed,
because that is what they would like to
make us do and we must disappoint
them. Well!
							FRANK.


﻿MR. Robert Dale Owen has contracted
with the “Atlantic Monthly” to publish his
autobiography, in monthly chapters, begin-
ing with the number for January.
	LORD BACON says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is, and how far it
extendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	WILL THE EARTH BECOME A SUN SPOT?
—Mr. R. Holms sends a paper intended to
prove that the earth is gradually solidify-
ing, and losing its acqueous vapor; also, that
it is steadily diminishing its distance from
the sun, as shown by the gradual shorten-
ing of the year or annual revolution of the
earth; also maintaining that the “solar spots”
are not excavations, nor breaks in the solar
atmosphere, but that they are matter such
as forms the planets in a state of combustion,
whose emissions supply the solar system
with heat, light and electricity. The planet-
ary, cometary and nebular systems are
considered in this view. We receive
occasional communications of this kind,
which we are unable to publish because they
deal with what must yet be questions of-
theory and speculation, rather than ascer-
tained facts of science.—“English Paper.”
	THEY, who sit in the light of so many
brilliant windows little know, perhaps, how
much labor goes; to the making up of them”.
They are first designed, then stained in
bits; their colors are burned in separately,
—first the blue, then the red—and each re-
quires three successive heatings in the oven.
They must be pieced into a whole, with
leadings connecting the pieces, then swung
into a large window frame to be examined.
If any defect be discovered, the part or parts
must be burned again in the oven, and then
the whole must be burned together. The
scene in Glasmalarie is remarkable enough.
Here is a man engaged upon a martyr’s
toes, while in another room the eyes of the
same saint cast upon you the last look of de-
spair as they are shoved into a furnace
heated seven-fold—just as if Herr Fortner,
who now presides, I believe, were another
Diocletian.
	A week later you will see the martyr,
purified by his ordeal, smiling down a whole
rainbow upon the workmen in their shirt
sleeves, in an apartment of chalk, old
planks, coke and all sorts of odds and ends.
These fellows are no respecters of persons,
either, Gods and saints, St. George’s dragon
and the chamois destined for some noble-
man’s hunting box, are cast together into
the oven and shine together on the walls.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A ﻿PRIZE!
	Should be in every house!
	The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price;
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						Salt Lake City.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.

	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
	H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
[new column]
CAMPBELL& PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
							St. George, Utah.





H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
[new column]
	


	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?“ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00 
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting 
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
