VOL. I		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15,1872.﻿	NO. 4.


NEWS AND VIEWS.	
			    _____
	Dead At last—The Freedmen’s Bureau.
	In November, which? Grant or Greeley?
	The Boston Jubilee did pay ex-
penses after all, it is averred. Happy Gil-
more! Thrice happy Boston!
	Newspaper Blackguarding and gross
misrepresentation are among the chief char-
acteristics of the Presidential campaign, as
usual.
	Gilmore’s Grand gathering of the
musical clans at Boston closed on the
Fourth. The sad refrain comes across the
continent that the Jubilee did not pay.
	Chicago With an eye to thrift and pru-
dence, grants licenses for the side of fire-
crackers, and assesses a fine of ten dollars
for exploding them. That is municipal
wisdom unalloyed.
	England Has discovered a new liquor to
get drunk on. It is composed of naptha and
ether, will save wheat and barley, and may
possibly fill prisons, madhouses and graves
as rapidly as older stimulating beverages.
	Fifteen Hundred dollars for each ap-
pearance, and expenses paid, was the tune
to which Madame Peschka Leutner sung at
the Jubilee. She is reported to have “a
magnificent organ,” and her notes are un-
questionably golden ones.
	Harvard college has appointed a com-
mittee to consider the propriety of admit-
ting girls; and Dartmouth is exercised be-
cause the woman of the age demands ad-
mission. The world moves, and women
may claim the right, by and by, to have the
best education which the first seat of learn-
ing in the country can impart.
	Kentucky has another hero, a four-
footed one, “Longfellow” by name, that won
the Monmouth cup at the late Long Branch
races; and Kentucky is as enthusiastic over
the fleet quadruped as if it were a gifted
son of the State, who had performed some
noble deed which would reflect honor on
himself, his family and the place that gave
him birth.
	The Stokes trial for the murder of Fisk
draws to a close, and the usual insanity
fiction has been set up as a plea by the de-
fense. If a few of these prominent cases of
“insanity,” as developed in murders, were
confined for life in a well-conducted mad-
house, there would be fewer instances of it
being set up as a plea to save the hangman
of a job. Will Stokes be executed? Very
unlikely.
	Miss Nellie Grant is the champion
traveler. The telegraphic news lately an-
nounced she was in Switzerland, and the
next night the same reliable source of in-
telligence had her in London at a session of
the House of Lords. Doubtless Miss Nellie
is an estimable young woman, but the way
she is talked of in the newspapers must be a
source of great annoyance in the future
when she comprehends fully how ridiculous
they have sought to make her appear with
their tawdry toadying.
	The first State election of the present
campaign will be held in North Carolina on
August 1st. It is expected that the Grant
party will tarry the State, for it is alleged
that large sums of money are being used for
that purpose. The statement speaks vol-
umes concerning the “patriotism,” “intelli-
gence” and “love of country” which ani-
mate the voter man, bleached or colored. If
the allegation be correct, and we have not
seen it disputed, the integrity and safety of
the country merely depend upon a man or
party rich enough to buy power.
	Mrs.	 Hartvie proposes, as Mrs.
Gorden, when she stepped on the platform
in Cincinnati and boldly claimed her right
to speak, was insulted by the “hoodlums”
of the assembly and forced to withdraw,
that in future women go one hundred in
number and stand up all together, like an
iron ring, and surround and protect their
elected epeaker. That would be rather sen-
sational, and, a pleasant “out” for some of
us; but. who would pay the expenses, and
look after the babies while we were about
it, is a question that will bear consideration.
	Three American women, unaccustomed
to the proprieties which are deemed essen-
tial in many places outside of the United
States, went walking fashionably dressed at
a late hour, out in Edinburgh, Scotland, to
visit Holyrood Palace. Their stylish dress
attracted attention, and a mob gathered
around them, a couple of policemen having
finally to afford them protection and escort
them to a place of safety. There is a little
moral attached to this, which the public can
furnish to it themselves.
	The nomination of Horace Greeley and
B. Gratz Brown, a couple of editors, made
at Cincinnati in May, has been repeated at
Baltimore. On Wednesday last, the 10th
inst., the National Democratic Convention,
on the first ballot, gave Greeley 686 votes
out of 732, and then made his nomination
unanimous. Brown, on the first ballot, re-
ceived 713 votes, when his nomination was
also made unanimous. These two men,
therefore, are the chosen candidates of two
great Conventions, and as opposed to Grant
and Wilson have strong hopes of election to
the highest offices within the gift of the
people. Women cannot vote in the States,
or they would be even stronger.
	Jennie Bronson has been the wife of a
Mr. Holbrook, of New Orleans. But a di-
vorce came between them, and a new Mrs.
Holbrook took the place formerly occupied
by Jennie. Quite recently, while the second
Mrs. H. was making her toilet, Jennie
entered her dressing room and fired at her
twice with a pistol. The two women clutched,
when the divorced woman took a bay rum
bottle and battered it into pieces over the
other’s head. She then demolished furni-
ture and fixings, routed the domestics, and
was finally removed to prison, leaving a
dying woman behind. This should be
charged to a madly jealous disposition and
an ungoverned temper; but it might be
charged to matrimony and divorce just as
sensibly as some people charge every do-
mestic difficulty in Utah to plural marriage.
	On Wednesday last, the 10th inst., in
the National Democratic Convention at
Baltimore, Horace Greeley, a life-long an-
tagonist of the Democratic party, was
unanimously nominated as their candidate
for the Presidency of the United States. It
was one of the most startling political acts
that our country has yet seen. And in ac-
cepting that nomination Mr. Greeley said,
the time would yet come when it would be
acknowledged that they were none the less
Democrats because they nominated him, and
that he was none the less a Republican be-
cause he accepted the nomination. There is a
strong combination of political elements all
over the country, not long ago bitterly op-
posed to each other, but now united in the
determination to make Mr. Greeley the
next President of the United States, and the
indications point to their success.
	Three leading National Conventions
have lately been held, at Cincinnati, Phila-
delphia and Baltimore, and the advocates of
woman suffrage endeavored to present their
claims before each. At Cincinnati they were
rather ungracefully treated. At Philadel-
phia a quasi recognition was given to their
demands. And as the Baltimore Conven-
tion adopted the Cincinnati platform, no ac-
knowledgement was made there of the right
of woman to the ballot. The cause of wo-
man suffrage evidently finds little sympathy
with any of the great-political parties. The
Philadelphia allusion to the services of wo-
man and her rights, was included in the
platform for political effect, but so transpar-
ent as to be seen through at a glance. Had the
Republican party meant in good faith what
their platform set forth, their Congressmen
could easily have passed an amendment to
the Constitution conferring the suffrage
upon woman, and sent it to the Legislatures
of the different States for ratification, as
they did with the one enfranchising the
negroes. Women will gain a just recogni-
tion of the right demanded when the peo-
ple at large concede it, regardless of politi-
cians or party platforms.
	Some five years ago a Miss Barber, of
Milford, Massachusetts, conceived the ro-
mantic idea of carrying civilization and re-
finement to the Indians by marrying a chief
and accompanying him to his home in the
wilderness. She was married to Squatting
Bear, a young chief of the Brule Sioux, who
was at Washington, in 1867, and went with
him to his hunting-ground in Dacota. There
she found that Fennimore Cooper’s glowing
descriptions of the noble red man, if not
highly colored pieces of prose poetry, had
no reality among the Sioux. She found
several other Mrs. Squatting Bears occupy-
ing the lodge of her dusky liege-lord. In-
stead of being approached with reverence
as a being of a superior race, and listened to
with eagerness while she poured noble sen-
timents into the ears of those dwellers of
the plains, she was treated like the other
squaws, compelled to do the usual drudgery
of an Indian’s wife, beaten like a dog, and
compelled to witness the murder of one of
his squaws by her savage husband. She
tried to escape, was captured, nearly killed,
and sold to a Cheyenne chief for three
ponies. After being with the Cheyennes
until last Spring, she succeeded in escaping
to Fort Benton, and subsequently returned
to Massachusetts. Romance often makes sad
havoc of the future of young women, but it
is seldom that it weaves a web of such bar-
barous sufferings as in this instance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, of Ogden, continues
to manifest a lively interest in our journal,
to which she politely forwards the following
synopsis of the report of a meeting held by
the F. R. Society of that city, on the 27th of
June:
   “We were much pleased and gratified to
have the company of sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
sister Horne, from Salt Lake City, at our
meeting. The President being absent, her
Counselors, Mrs Martha Bingham and Mrs.
Sarah Herrick, took charge of the meeting,
which was opened by some excellent sing-
ing followed with prayer by Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham; and singing again. The meet-
ing was addressed by sisters Z. D. Young,
B. W. Smith and I. Horne, who gave some
excellent counsel and words of encourage-
ment; after which sister E. R. Snow said:
We are all engaged in one great work, the
redemption of mankind. In this work wo-
man hikes a most important part. Upon her
rests the responsibilty, in a great measure,
of giving character to all societies; and this
is for each one of us. God is giving us
opportunities to prove ourselves here. It is
essential that we work for our dead. Work
seems to be the watchword of this genera-
tion. The training of our children is one of
the most weighty duties we have to per-
form; to teach them the difference between
right and wrong, between good and evil in
all respects, so far as we have learned our-
selves to comprehend. She closed by invok-
ing the blessing of God upon those present.
	Sister Richards briefly expressed her feel-
ings, saying she had been much interested
and edified. Donations were taken for the
emigration of the poor to the amount of
sixty-eight dollbrs and some cents, and more
will be collected, it is presumed, to make as
much as $100.”

	Of the Third Ward F.R. Society, of Provo,
we receive a brief but pleasant account from
Mrs. M. John, Secretary.
	A meeting was held on the 6th of June
at the house of Mrs. Tanner, President of
the Society.  A long and severe illness had
prevented Mrs. Tanner’s meeting with the
Society for a length of time. General satis-
faction was expressed by the sisters present,
that her life had been spared and her health
improved so that she could again be able to
meet with them; and she expressed herself
as being truly thankful to God for His good-
ness, and to the brethren and sisters for
their faith and prayers, which had been ex-
ercised in her behalf. The Society seems to
be in a very flourishing condition, Mrs.
John concluding: "Happy to say there are
none needing assistance in the Ward at
present."

	The following from Mrs. Elmira S. Taylor,
Secretary of the 14th Ward F. R. Society of
this city, is brief but comprehensive:
	I send you a brief report of a meeting of the
F. R. Society of the14th Ward, held in the
Society Hall, June 26th. We were favored
with the presence of our Bishop, Brother
Thomas Taylor, who gave us some excellent
instructions, and whose remarks were most
encouraging. He said  he was one with the
Society, that he highly appreciated their
efforts, and would do all in his power to
enable them to carry on their laudable work.
	Sisters E.R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah Richards were also present, and
gave much wise and good counsel.
	There are many poor in the Ward who
are assisted by the Society.  The attendance
at meetings is small, but those who do at-
[new column]
tend are energetic and faithful, and feel
blest in the discharge of their duties. Too
much praise cannot be accorded to our
President, Mrs. I. Horne, as she is most in-
defatigable in her efforts to advance the
interests of the Society, and ameliorate the
condition of the poor.

	From Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Secretary of the
F. R. Society of Farmington, we receive a
pleasant report of the fourth annnal meeting
of that Society, held June 19th. Much
valuable instruction was given, and great
satisfaction expressed for the progress the
Society has made, by those who addressed
the meeting, namely; Sisters E. R. Snow,
P. L. Kimball and Z. D. Young, from Salt
Lake City, Elders Arthur Stayner, Job
Welling, Hector Haight, Ezra Clark, John
Tibbits, and the President, Mrs. S. J.
Holmes.
	The financial report shows that since the
organization of the Society $822.85 has been
taken in; $348.85 given to the poor, and
$181.84 donated for public purposes; leaving
a handsome balance in the Treasury.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				
  POLITENESS IS contagious, and a kind
word, a gracious smile, and a delicate tact
to make sunshine in the heart, are felt and
will have their influence over the conduct and
character of others, which is secretly inspir-
ing them with a love for virtue. A lady
never appears to so much advantage as when
doing the honors of her home. There she
has opportunity for the full development of
her character and. a display of the charms
which are truly her highest ornaments. The
care of an accomplished and well-bred wo-
man will so regulate an establishment, that
visitors may at any time be received with-
out apologies.
  COUNTERPANES THAT are neat and light,
and easy to wash, can be made in this way:
Take new cotton cloth; make it longer than
a sheet, and if for a wide bed, two breadths
and a half; before being wet, draw in candle-
wick, in diamonds of about a finger apart,
and cut off to leave ends on the out side
about half an inch long; then wash and
bleach them, and they are durable and look
very tidy. One can be made in a day and a
half or two days with a needle that has a
very large eye, like the packing needle.
Draw the wick in double, and if done true
the diamond will be formed.
  NITRE MOISTENED with water is said to be
an excelled wash to remove freckles from
the skin.
  DISSOLVE, FOR fruit cream, half an ounce
of isinglass in warm water enough to cover
it; add to this a pint of cream, .sweetened
with four spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it.
When cool, lay some apricot, raspberry or
peach preserves in a glass dish and pour the
cream over it.
  STRONG ALUM water, often applied, is a
great enemy to warts, and seldom fails to
drive them away without danger or damage
to the afllicted party. To cut or pick a wart
until it bleeds freely, and then put on it a
little quick lime is a sure cure, and not
painful as one would think who had not
tried it.
  ANY HARD, steel tool will cut glass with
great facility when kept freely wet with
camphor dissolved in turpentine. -The rag-
ged edges of glass vessels may also be thus
easily smoothed by a flat file.
  TO MAKE hard gingerbred, take one quart
of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, three
quarters of a pound of butter and lard, one
cupful of ginger, a teaspoonful of black pep-
[next column]
per and a tablespoonful of cloves, cinnamon
and allspice.
  DURABLE WHITEWASH. —Whitewashed
walls will not rub off if the lime is thus pre-
pared: Mix half a pailful of lime and water;
take half a pint of flour, make a starch of it,
and pour it hot into the whitewash; stir it
well, and add a little salt.
  JELLY.—To make a quart, soak one oz. of
gelatine in a pint of cold water for twenty
minutes, then add the same quantity of
boiling water, stir until dissolved; add the
juice and peel of two lemons, with enough
sugar to sweeten; have ready, well beaten,
the white and shell of one egg stir these
briskly into the jelley, then boil for two
minutes without stirring it; remove it from
the fire, and allow it to stand two minutes,
then strain through a close flannel bag;
this jelly may be flavored or colored
according to taste.
   COTTAGE PUDDING.—Warm two and a
half tablespoonsful of butler, stir in a teacup
of white sugar and two eggs. Put two tea-
spoonsful of cream tartar in one pint of flour,
add a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup
of milk; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake
three-quarters of an hour in a moderate
oven, and serve hot with rich hot sauce.
  MORNING BISCUITS.—One quart of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonsful
of yeast, and one pint of sour milk, with
half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it.
Work this into a dough; then rub into the
dough half a cup of butter. Knead well; cut
off some bits; shape them into biscuits; lay
them in the bake pan, cover closely with a
broadcloth, and let them stand over night,in a
warm place in the Winter, and a cold place
in the Summer. Bake in the morning for
breakfast.
  BREAD PUDDING.—One pint of fine bread
crumbs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonsful
of molasses, half a pound of suet chopped
fine, one coffee-cup of raisins, half a rind of
preserved orange-peel or citron cut thin and
fine, very little nutmeg and cinnamon, two
teaspoonsful cream tartar, one small tea-
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir
in milk enough to make it thick as pound-
cake; beating all thoroughly together; put it
into a buttered pudding mould, and boil
three hours. Be careful to keep the water
boiling all the time.
		————————


﻿“MUST I pray too, mother?” asked a two
year old boy, with flaxen hair, and mild
blue eyes, as the family were called together
for morning prayers. “Yes, dear, of course
you must,” answered his mother. “What
shall I pray for?” continued the little quer-
ist. “For whatever you want most,” was
the response; and while his father was offer-
ing up his prayer, the little fellow was over-
heard to whisper loudly hut reverently,
“Pray, Father, give me some candy! Pray,
O, Father, give me some candy!”  It is
needless to say that the innocent and sweet
petition was heard and promptly answered.


﻿NOT THE MATERIAL FOR A SHAKERESS.
—Mary Hogan was too pretty a girl to be a
Shakeress. They tied her hair and ears
back, and distorted her fair proportions by
uncomely dress, but she still refused to be
plain. Brother Jackson, warmed out of cold
faith by love and the weather, eloped with
and married Mary a few days ago. When
interviewed by some of the scandalized
brethren, Mary is reported to have said:
“You can make your apple sass and war-
rant it to keep; but gals ain’t apples, and
you.can’t bile ’em down so they won’t sour
on your old rules about marrying.”—“Wash-
ington Star.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEARER HOME.

	One of Alice Cary’s songs has a story con-
nected with it, of a young man in a gamb-
ling house at Hong Kong, who sang one
verse while idly shufiling the cards. The
young man’s companion, old in sin, was so
rebuked by the sweet sentiment of the song
that he arose from the play and with tears
in his eyes said, “Come, Harry; here’s what
I won from you; go and use it for some good
purpose. As for me, as God sees me, I have
played my last game, and drank my last
bottle. I have misled you, Harry, and I am
sorry. Give me your hand, my boy, and
say that, for old America’s sake, if for no
other, you will quit this infernal business.”
	The gentleman who told the story
(originally published in “The Boston Daily
News”) saw these two men leave the gamb-
linghouse together, and walk away arm in
arm; and he remarked: “It must be a
source of great joy to Miss Cary to know
that her lines, which have comforted so many
Christian hearts, have been the means of
awakening in the breasts of two tempted
and erring men on the other side of the
globe, a resolution to lead a better life.”
Here is the song:
	One sweetly solomn thought
	  Comes to me o’er and o’er;
	I’m nearer my home to-day
	  Than I ever have been before;

	Nearer my Father’s house,
	  Where the many mansions be;
	Nearer the great white throne,
	  Nearer the crystal sea;

	Nearer the bound of life,
	  Where we lay our burdens down;
	Nearer leaving the cross,
	  Nearer.gaining the crown. 

	But the waves of that silent sea
	  Roll dark before my sight,
	That brightly the other side
	  Break on a shore of light.

	O, if my mortal feet
	  Have almost gained the brink,
	If it be I am nearer home
	  Even to-day than I think,

	Father, perfect my trust.
	  Let my spirit feel in death
	That her feet are firmly set
	  On the Rock of living faith.


﻿WOMAN'S DETERMINATION.
				
   Among the evidences of woman’s deter-
mination to enlarge her resources, is notable
that of a lady who acts as coal agent for a
large firm in this city. She solicits orders
from merchants and private families, and is
so successful as to be enabled thereby to sup-
port comfortably an infirm father and
mother, a little child, an insane brother and
herself. One old conservative gentleman
whose ideas of woman’s sphere do not ex-
tend beyond the hearthstone, when told that
a lady wished to see hint about ordering
coal, showed his disgust by exclaiming on
her entrance to his presence:
   “Woman in the coal business! What
next, I wonder. The men will have to take
in dress-making to compete with them."
  “Beg your pardon, sir,” answered the
lady, “But the men have already done so,
and met with success too. There is----,
who takes in washing and has it done by
men too.”
  The old gentleman looked slightly dumb-
founded at this retort, but quickly recover-
ing, he smiling, acknowledged the “corn,”
and gave her a liberal order for his gear’s
supply of coal, both for his business and
private residence as well.—“New York Ex-
press.”


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			    —
 Whatever purifies also fortifies the heart.
 Charity is an eternal debt, and without
limit.
 A beautiful external life symbolizes a
beautiful soul.
 It is easier to be wise for others than for
ourselves, yet such wisdom is wasted.
 Eagerness to grasp, often strangles and
destroys pleasure.
 Innocence confers freedom to the mind,
and leaves it open to every pleasing sensa-
tion.
  “Errors, like straw, upon the surface flow;
but he who seeks for pearls must dive be-
low.”
  The chief misfortunes in life can be traced
to some vices or follies committed by the
sufferers.
 The spirit of love, like the fragrance of
flowers, may be inhaled while the object is
out of sight.
  The veil which covers from our sight the
events of succeeding years, is woven by the
hand of mercy.
  The most forlorn and helpless sinner was
once an innocent child, possessed of untold
possibilities of good.
  Whatever useful or engaging endowments
we possess, virtue is requisite to their shin-
ing with proper lustre.
  Diligence, industry and a proper im-
provement of time, will never fail of gain-
ing great and just rewards.
  The desire to improve denotes a liberal'
mind, and is connected with many accom-
plishments and many virtues.
 They who have nothing to give but sym-
pathy can often afford relief by imparting
what they feel.
 It is as difficult for revenge to act without
exciting suspicion, as for a rattlesnake to
stir without making a noise.
  Many mistake the admiration for the
practice of virtue, and are not so much good
friends as the friends of goodness.
  Restraint is the golden rule of enjoyment;
we appreciate no pleasures properly, unless
occasionally debarred from them.
  A temperate spirit and moderate expecta-
tions are excellent safeguards of the mind
in this uncertain and changing world.
  In the darkest night there still is light in
the sky somewhere shining up from the
sun or coming down from the distant stars.
  There is nothing except simplicity of in-
tention and purity of principle that can
stand the test of near approach and strict
examination.
  Mere intellectual acuteness, if divested,
as it often is, of all that is comprehensive of
goodness, is more revolting than the most
helpless imbecility.
  The.best preparation for all the uncertain-
ties of futurity, consists in a well-ordered
mind, a clear conscience, and a cheerful sub-
mission to the will of Heaven. 
  To be wise in our own eyes, to be wise in
the opinion of the world, and to be wise in
the sight of our Creator, are three things so
very different as rarely to come together.
  If you take a great deal of pains to serve
and benefit your fellow creatures, and after
all they scarcely thank you for the trouble
you have taken, do not be angry and make
a loud noise about the world’s ingratitude;
for then it would seem that you cared
more about the thanks than the blessings
you sought to bestow.


WHAT’S THE HURRY?
	The question of labor is likely to be one of
vast interest during the remaining years of
the present century. The idea seems to be
universally conceded by the laboring class,
that too much time is required for work and
not a sufiicient amount granted for rest and
recreation.
	Certain it is, that all denominations, parties
and sects are hurrying through the world
with a rapidity that daily increases, and be-
comes each year, seemingly, more and more
irrestable. Many of those who are wealthy
would drive their workwomen to hard
physical labor all the time, day and night,
were it in their power; so anxious are they
to-grasp all in their reach, and to have their
arms extended and strengthened so that
they may reach and grasp and secure still
more. And many of those who are poor are
so eager to become rich in a hurry, that they
are almost opposed to spending time and
dilligence enough at any kind of work to
make it profitable, either to themselves or
their employers. A calm, quiet course of
procedure is apparently considered of little
account in the effort to accomplish anything
now-a-days; it is all hurry and bustle, elec-
tric speed for every thing that is done.
Every one you meet with is tired, but still
in a hurry to get some piece of work off
hands. No one has time to rest; the balance
would get ahead if one rested a little. Wait
a minute, poor, old world! Your sage head
must be dizzy and confused with such ceas-
less turning, day after day and year after
year, for so many generations! Why rush
along so furiously? It must be almost time for
the “new Heaven and new earth” to make
their appearance, any how; you are coming
to an end fast enough. What’s the hurry?
								   G.


﻿GIRLS, DON’T TALK SLANG!
				
  An exchange says: Girls, don’t talk
slang! If it is necessary that any one in 
the family should do that, let your big
brother, though I would advise him not to ;
talk “pigeon English” when there is an
elegant, systematized language that he can
just as well use; but don’t you do it. You
have no idea how it sounds to ears unused
or averse to it, to hear a young lady, when
she is asked to attend some place of amuse-
ment, answer, “Not much;” or, if requested
to do something she does not wish to, “Can’t
see it!”
   Not long ago I heard a Miss, who is edu-
cated and accomplished say, in speaking of
a yonng man, that she intended to “go for
him;” and when her sister asked her assist-
ance at some work, she answered, “Not for
Joe.”
  Now, young ladies of unexceptionable
character and really good education, fall
into this habit, thinking it shows smart-
ness to answer back in slang phrases; and
they soon slip flippantly from their tongues
with a saucy pertness that is neither lady-
like nor becoming. Young men who talk i
in that way do not care to hear it from the
lips they love or admire—it sounds much
coarser then; and, really, slang does not
save time in use of language as an abbrevi-
ation: “No” is shorter and much more de-
cided than “not much;” “l am sure,” is quite
as easily said as “I’ll bet.”
  More than one promising wedding has
been indefinitely postponed by such means,
for, however remiss young men may be in
such things themselves, they look for better
things in the girls of their choice—and it
does not help them to mend a bad habit to
adopt it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

  Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			
  The negro population ot Virginina has de-
creased 3 1/2 per cent. in the decade from 1860
to 1870.......At Long Branch, a grand fair is
to be held this Summer, for the benefit of
the French Liberation Fund...........Cut
worms are destroying the imported Havana
tobacco, now growing in Connecticut.....
The Alabama State Democratic convention
which met June 19th, was the largest ever
held in the State......The annual reduction
of tariff duties, taxes and interest by the
acts of the Congress lately adjourned, it is
estimated, amounts to $51,823,761......A
great many cattle are reported dying in
Clark Co., Alabama, from an unknown dis-
ease...Missoula county, M. T., it is said, will
produce more grain this season, by one
half, than it ever did before......A visitor to
the Charleston, Massachusetts State prison,
reported that eight out of every ten of the
prisoners therein confined had come there,
directly or indirectly by liquor...M’me.
Rossina has been successful in the action for
damages recently brought against M.
Michotte for performing unpublished works
of her husband......Trees have been found
in Australia taller than those of California,
though not so large......Charles Reade has
five libel suits on hand against English
journalists, for criticisms of his new play,
"Shilly Shally"......In Switzerland, when a
prison becomes vacant, a white flag is
hoisted on its towers to apprize the world of
the fact. Such a standard now waves over the
jail at Montiers....Mrs. Stevens says the
habit of living in hotels and boarding-houses,
and eating at restaurants, is one of the bad
features of California life; there are too few
homes, and that is the reason why society
is so demoralized......It is stated of a promi-
nent military general that “his sword was
never drawn but once and that was in a
raffle"....The scheme of excavating a railroad
tunnel under the Straits of Dover, to con-
nect England and france, has been ban-
doned on account of the expense and engi-
neering difficulties......Mrs. Lattimer, of the
Pacific Coast convention association, man-
ages a farm of over one thousand acres and
makes a paying institution of it......A fine
quarry of lithographic stone has been dis-
covered in Kentucky, on the line of the
Lexington and Big Sandy railroad........A
foreigner, writing about the United States,
calls this country "the land of school houses."
......Jersey CIty is threatened with water
famine......Mrs. Fisk will erect a $50,000
monument over her deceased husband......
Prince Fredrick Charles, it is said, designs
visiting the United States next month......
Bryant, Longfellow, Homes, Saxe and
Lowell are all rich men. Poetry and poverty
are no longer inseparable companions......
The British iron product is about 5,500,000
tons a year, and the American about 2,000,-
000......At Cincinnati, a few days since,
Rev. J. J. Thompson, pastor of a M. E. 
chapel, had his head split open with a
hatchet in the hands of Thomas Bond. Cause:
Thompson kissed Bond's sweetheart......Of
the 139 members of the English Chaucer
Society, 56 are Americans......The diamond
miners near the Cape of Good Hope have al-
ready sent to Europe and sold $7,500,000
worth of diamonds......Mrs. Abbie Sage
Richardson will probably accept the chair of
elocution at the Cook county, Illinois,
Normal School.......A female book canvasser
in California says she has had fourteen of-
fers of marriage and sixty engagements to
lecture within six months......Gold Hill,
Nevada, will soon be lighted with gas. The
laying of the pipe has already commenced.
......The first new baby in Cairo since the
[next column]
Cincinnati Convention, is said to have been
named Horace Greeley Cummings......
Hugo Von Mohl, the greatest botanist of
the day, died recently at Tubingen, in his
sixty-seventh year......"Why women can-
not be turned into men," is the title of a
new work, published in England......En-
gagement bracelets, placed by the intended
husband on the lady's arms and locked by a
small gold key, is the latest novelty......
Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, speaking
of the "social evil," says that one of the
chief duties with us all is to urge young peo-
ple to get married......Of fifty candidates
who passed the Arts examination of the
Apothecaries' Society of London, a few days
since, only twenty-seven were successful,
two of them ladies, Mrs. Henry Lawson
and Miss Alice Rowland......Women
in Austria perform the duties of bricklayers
and may be seen carrying hods of morter
and baskets of brick up high ladders......
The shout that shook the sea-shore when
"Longfellow" came in foremost at the end
of the struggle for the Monmouth cup, was
thought to represent the powers of 15,000
lungs......All the newspapers in Lima, ex-
cept the “Times,” have been arbitarily sup-
pressed and their special editors arrested....
A large body of the Arizona Apaches have
been making a raid into Sonora, killing and
destroying without mercy.


﻿SUMMER MORTALITY;
			
  For some seasons past an unusual mortality
has prevailed in this city, particularly among
children, in the latter part of the summer, es-
pecially in the months of August and Septem-
ber; and occasionally continuing through Octo-
ber. At one time it has appeared as diptheria;
at another.as scarlet fever; but more generally
the fatal disease has taken the form of an
epedemic bowel complaint, and the little
victims to it have had the causes of their death
variously reported as cholera-infantum, teeth-
ing, and bowel-complaint.
  Why this mortality should come thus period-
ically and fill numerous children’s graves is a
subject which medical skill has so far failed to
furnish satisfactory reasons for. Some persons
attribute it to the eating of unripe fruit; others
to miasmatic vapors arising from stagnant wa-
ter near the southwestern portion of the city,
and some again to other causes. But while the
source of the mortality is not satisfactorily un-
derstood, there is little doubt that much sick-
ness and many deaths maybe prevented by moth
ers exercising due care in observing the laws of
health. A regular condition of body is neces-
sary to the preservation of health, and this is
more especially so during the latter part of
Summer and early Autum, when the human
system is relaxed and more or less enervated
from continued heat. Mothers who are nursing
cannot be too careful as to what they eat and
drink, if they desire the infants that draw sus-
tenance from them to enjoy good health. Fruit
or vegetables which they are unaccustomed to


use should be very sparingly partaken of; so
with watermelons or anything calculated to
relax the system; for laxity and constipation
are equally dangerous. To nurse an infant
when the body is overheated is injurious, nor
can it be done without evil results to the babe.
And the eating ot much pastry or highly
seasoned food is also productive of injury and
often of serious consequences. A regular and
temperate diet, exercising care not to partake
too freely of anything which is not ordinarily
used, is best for the preservation of health for
all, and more particularly nursing mothers.
  A sad and often fatal mistake made by many,
and growing out of maternal fondness, is the 
giving children any kind of food that may be
on the table for which they express a desire. A
little one seated in its mother's lap will ask or
make signs for something of which she is par-
taking and she cannot refuse. The childish
wish is gratified. It may be meat, or pie, or
something else which its tender stomach is
utterly incapable of digesting with ease. The
child is taken sick; its mother does not know
what is the matter with it; the disease con-
tinues, and before proper remedies are applied
it has seized fatal hold of its victim and another
little grave is filled, while a weeping mother
murmers against Providence for robbing her of
her babe.
  Mothers, we say in sorrow, that this is too
often the ease. And many a child, whose bones
are now mingling with the dust, might have
been to-day in the possession of life and vigor-
ous health had proper care been taken in the
matter of diet. Think of it, now that Summer
is here.


“MORMON WOMEN.”

  An extract from the San Francisco “Pioneer”
under the above title, and comments on it by a
lady of this city, will be found elsewhere in
this number. The editor of the “Pioneer”
evidently desires to be deceived relative to
the sentiments of the “intelligent women of
Utah,” those women who have proved their in-
telligence as organizers and colony-founders
along with men whose troubles and privations
they have shared and in whose prosperity they
participate. There are no people so difficult to
undeceive and as they who are self-deceived and
are satisfied with their assumed knowledge.
The “Pioneer” may be assured that the “Mor-
mon women” have long since been waked “up
to a full realization of their grave situation,”
and have solid reasons for holding that its editor
and those in whose agitation she so manifestly
sympathizes, would do well to pass through a
similar process of “awaking up;” for the con-
dition of women the world over is far from
what it should be, nor were the day-dreams so
often indulged in realized would it be greatly
improved.  But we desire to let this matter be
discussed by others of the “Mormon women” of
Utah, either over their own signatures or not
as best pleases them, satisfied that there are
hundreds of intelligent women in Utah who
can present facts and reasons on the subject
which the editor of the “Pioneer” would profit
by carefully considering and studying.
  The columns of the EXPONENT are open to
the “Mormon "Women” that they may express
themselves freely on this and other matters in
which they have been abundantly misrepre-
sented.


﻿ON SATURDAY last a meeting was held in the
tabernacle to nominate candidates for the com-
ing election. As the women of Utah possess
the suffrage, we shall treat at greater length
on the nominees next issue than we have
space to do now.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
			 —
 THERE APPEARS to be a misunderstanding
on the part of numbers of our readers, in regard
to the Editor of the EXPONENT, “Mr. L. L.
Green, Dear Editor,” and “Editor Woman’s
EXPONENT, Dear Sir,” are honorable appella-
tions, but we are not entitled to either “Mr.” or
“Sir,” being simply a woman, which our name
as it now appears over the editoriaI department
will indicate.
  WE MUST repeat again that subscribers in
this city who desire their papers delivered at
their residences, can be so accommodated by
the payment of twenty-five cents for the year
to the carrier; and they should send in their
names immediately. Those who do not wish
it delivered can get it after the first and fifteenth
of each month by calling at Campbell & Patter-
son’s East Temple Street.
  ON SATURDAY evening last a Greeley and
Brown ratification meeting was held at the
City. Hall, in this city, at which nearly five
thousand people were present, including many
ladies. Two bands of music were in attendance,
an artillery salute was fired, and stirring
speeches were made. The indications were very
decisive that if Utah had a State government
Its electoral vote would be given for Mr. Gree-
ley by a very large popular majority.
  MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the “New North-
west,” Portland, Oregon, delivered an interest-
ing lecture in the tabernacle in this city on
Monday night, the 8th inst., choosing for her
subject “Human Rights.” Reference will be
ound made to it elsewhere, and the circum-
stances which brought Mrs. Duniway into the
editorial sanctum and the lecture field. She is
an earnest woman, and in her lecture advanced
some excellent ideas clothed In a garniture of
oloquent language
   THE NATIONAL Anniversary has come and
gone since our last issue. Independence Day
passed without a formal celebration in this
city, as a result of the narrow-mindedness of
ofiicial authority which would prevent a free
people from celebrating as they should the
birth-day of freedom. But in their “heart of
hearts” the people carried their love for liberty
and their reverence for the great men gone, just
as fondly as though they had engaged in all the
outward seeming of patriotism which so often
characterizes Fourth of July celebrations.
  HON. W. H. HOOPER, retires from the politi-
cal field as Delegate to Congress, after having
faithfully served the Territory for ten years in
that position. He retains the unabated confi-
dence and warmest wishes for his success of the
thousands whose votes were cast for him at
each election, for he has proved himself an in-
defatigable, energetic, and honorable public
officer. Hon. Geo. Q. Cannon is nominated for
Delegate, a gentleman in every way qualified
to fill the place, and with a record as clear as
the crystal water which is his principal bever-
age.	
  ALMOST EVERY day subscriptions are being
received for the Exponent, the senders asking
to have the papers sent from the beginning of
the volume. We regret being unable to meet
these requests affirmatively, as the issue of the
first and second numbers is exhausted. The desire
to possess the history of the first organization of
the Female Relief Society In Nauvoo, written,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, is one great reason why
so much anxiety is manifested to obtain the
numbers in which it appeared; and to meet
this desire we purpose, after some little time,
republishing it for the benefit of those who
have not yet read it.	
[new column]
  WEDNESDAY WEEK, the Twenty-fourth inst.,
is the anniversary of the day when the Pioneers,
under President Brigham Young, entered this
valley. The occasion is held in warm remem-
brance by the people of Utah, for it opened a
new era in their history. Here, after having
borne for sad years the pitless storm of persecu-
tion, culminating in the martyrdom of their
Prophet and Patriarch and their being driven
beyond the confines of “civilization,” they
found rest and peace, and under the blessing of
Heaven the little one has become a nation. No
wonder they celebrate the day with fervor and
earnestness.
		 ————————


﻿WOMAN'S STATUS.
			   —
  With the EXPONENT'S permission I will
follow up the subject which appeared In
your first number, under the title “Woman’s
Rights, and Wrongs.”
   The status of women is one of the ques-
tions of the day. Socially and politically it
forces itself upon the attention of the world.
Some who are so conservative that they op-
pose every change until they are compelled
to accept it, refuse to concede that woman is
entitled to the enjoyment of any rights other
than those which the whims, fancies or jus-
tice, as the case may-be, of men may choose to
grant her. The reasons which they cannot
meet with argument they decry and ridicule,
an old refuge for those opposed to correct
principles which they are unable to contro-
vert. Others, again, not only recognize that
woman’s status should be improved, but are
so radical in their extreme theories that they
would set her in antagonism to man, assume
for her a separate and opposing existence,
and to show how entirely independent she
should be would make her adopt the more
reprehensible phases of character which men
present, and which should be shunned or im-
proved by them instead of being copied by
women. These are two extremes, and be-
tween them is the “golden mean.”
  We do not have to go back very far in
the history of the Anglo-Saxon race to find
a time when women were viewed and treat-
ed as chattels. The father had absolute
power in everything, except in the matter
of life and death, over his daughter. The
husband had equal power over his wife.
She was his property, to the last article of
raiment worn by her. And there are not
wanting instances within a comparatively
recent date where women have been sold
with a halter around the neck, and passed
quietly and almost uncomplainingly into
the possession of their purchasers. Even
now, among the lower classes of the Eng-
lish, the wife speaks of her husband as “my
master,” not “my husband;” and this by
traditionary force In cases where the man is
anything but master, being the veriest slave
of a woman’s will.
   Coming to America the status of woman
among the same classes may be something
higher, but it is not so well defined in any
grade of society. See the manner in which
ladies—a term for which I have little rever-
ence or respect—are treated in all public
places! The most obsequious deference is
ostensibly paid to their slightest wish. The
profane man, from whose lips in the company
of men alone oath follows oath, one scarcely
waiting on the other, will not utter an of-
fensive word in the presence of woman. She
must not be allowed to stand if a seat can be
found by a man vacating it. She must be
preserved from the slightest blast of trouble,
petted, carressed, dressed to attract atten-
tion, taught accomplishments that minister
to man’s-gratification; in other words, she
must be treated as a glittering and fragile
[new column]
toy, a thing without brains or soul, placed
on a tinselled and unsubstantial pedestal by
man, as her worshipper. This elevation of
status is by courtesy, not by right. Let one
of those idols choose to step beyond the
bounds which society prescribes, and she is
hurled from her position, and flung in the
mire of social degradation. What legal rights
can she fall back  upon? What power has
she to work her own restoration? In some
of the States of the Union she can acquire
and control property, and this is a great step
in advance. Yet she is far from possessing
the power to rise aboe untoward circum-
stances that she would possess, if she enjoyed
polilical rights and influences. For “society,”
or any social combination, in this country,
is composed of people a part of whom pos-
sess political influence, and that very in-
fluence gives them social power. An indi-
vidual man possesses but a single vote; but
he may have talent and ability, and can lead
the votes of others; and he is a power, even
though he be known to be corrupt nnd in-
temperate, and his honor and honesty are
questionable. The individual woman may
possess equal talents and ability, but she has
not a single vote, she cannot lead votes,
she is not a political power of any kind, and
society only respects her so long as she con-
forms to its rules.
  Woman’s true status is that of companion
to man, yet protected by law in the posses-
sion of those rights which will enable her to
act in an independent sphere, should he
abuse his position and render the union un-
endurable. To discuss the position thus laid
down would occupy more space than your
limits will allow at the present, so I will
take it up again.				E.


﻿MRS. DUNWAY'S LECTURE.
					—
  Mrs. Duniway, an able champion of human
rights, has favored our city with a passing
call, and our citizens with a public expres-
sion of some of her views. She is no ex-
tremist, except in her reverence for the
sacred office of motherhood.
  As Milton placed Adam and Eve, she
places man and woman, hand in hand in all
the walks of life. While being in-
terviewed she gave an interesting sketch of
the manner of her conversion to this, to
some, objectionable doctrine. She said that
while it was her only ambition to be a good
wife and mother, her husband missed his
financial balance, and about the same time
met with a personal injury, which drove
her to the school room and thence to a mil-
linery store. She competed disadvantage-
ous with men. Around her were other
women struggling similarly to keep their
heads’ above water, and claiming her assist-
ance.
   At the close of a day’s labor in which
sympathy and aid had been called in different
directions, and disasters and snubs had been
unusually prevalent, she approached the
low couch on which her invalid husband
was lying, and seating herself on the carpet
laid her head against him; and after re-
hearsing the difficulties of the day, she said
“Why are these things?” Her noble and
generous husband (that is what she called
him) said, “My dear, these things must in
the nature of things be so until woman
takes her proper position as the social, and
political equal of man.” She said an inspira-
tion seemed to enable her to comprehend
that moment what she had heard him talk
many times before.			RHEUMA.


THE MAN who was hemmed in by a crowd
has been troubled with a stitch in his side
ever since.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
			   —
  UPWARD of sixteen American widows are
sojourning at Dresden.
  LADIES are being admitted to the practice
of dentistry in Germany.
  LADY Beaconslield, Disraeli’s wife, is ill
beyond hope of recovery!
  THE ladies of Paris, Ky., are forming an
anti-speak-evil-of-your-neighber society.
  A BLIND woman in Iowa has learned to
thread a cambric needle with her teeth and
tongue.
  THE wickedest woman in Boston is named
Jemima Jakes. She claims to have yanked
fifty husbands from the domestic hearth.
  THE eye of a good mother is like the sun;
it shines on a world that weuld be dark
without, and its brightness is that of love.
  THE fees of a Wyoming paper for mar-
riage notices are “as high as the ecstacy and
liberality of the bridegroom may prompt.
  THE stillborn daughter of Mrs. Bates, the
Nova Scotia giantess, was twenty-eight
inches long, and weighed eighteeen pounds.
  THE citizens at Battle Creek, Mich., have
rewarded Miss Emma Pearl, of that city,
with a fine gold watch, for taking care of a
small-pox afllicted family.
  AT Coburg it is believed that Queen Vic-
toria will abdicate at an early day, and then
pass the remainder of her life at Castle
Kosenau, where Prince Albert was educated.
  THE Berger sisters may be numbered
among the very few women that appear on
the stage at the present day, who earn the
money and the applause which they re-
ceive.
  MRS. Edmund Dexter, who created a
furore at the St. Louis Saengerfest, is a Cin-
cinnati brunette, of self-possession, embon-
point, and pleasant presence—a light edition
of Parepa.
  SOME of the young Quakeresses, who were
dressed in modern style, were admonished
by the venerable Lucretia Mott, at a recent
meeting, to beware of the follies of fashion
and dress in becoming simplicity and dig-
nity.
  BARBARA Ubryk, the story of whose
long imprisonment as a nun attracted so
much attention a few years ago, has now re-
covered from her severe and protracted suf-
ferings, and is living quietly and happily at
Cracow.
  NO wonder the fair sex disliked Dr. John-
son when he said: People flock to hear a
woman preach, not because she preaches
well, but because she preaches anyhow.
Just as they go to see a dog walk on his
hind legs, though he does not walk on them
nearly so well as a man.
  THE women of Damascus, Illinois, take
part in the discussion of the farmers’ club
meeting. A recent conundrum was: “Shall
we dress for comfort or show?” It was, of
course, decided to dress for comfort, and
then they all went away, and at the next
meeting each appeared with a “three-
decker” head-dress and a “Dolly Varden”
suit.
  A FASHION reporter describes some of
the toilets at a recent party at Cheyenne:
“The belle of the evening was Miss W. She
dressed faultlessly in a linsey-woolsey of the
palest shade of ‘cafe au lait,’ cut ‘entrain’
and trimmed with Chicago relics. Miss H.
wore a ‘polonaise’ made of blue jeans,
postilioned in the back, cut ‘vis-a-vis’ with
a ‘detree’ bias, and gored in the most san-
guinary manner. She wore no jewel but
consistency.”


MORMON WOMEN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco "Pioneer" of
July 4th:
	"We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
show."
	As a "Mormon Woman" I beg a little
space to notice this paragraph.
	What definition the "Pioneer" may give
to the word "intelligent" I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protrudes itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the "Pioneer" has been grossly
deceived, and its "pleasure" is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the "in-
telligent women of Utah" have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the "Pioneer"
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honered wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those who un-
appreciated and senseless whinings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
							TRUTH.

----
﻿MORMON WOMEN.
Editor Exponent:
Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco “Pioneer” of
July 4th:
“We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
I show.”
As a “Mormon Woman” I beg a little
space to notice this paragraph.
What definition the “Pioneer” may give
to the word “intelligent” I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protrudes itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the “Pioneer” has been grossly
deceived, and its “pleasure” is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the “in-
telligent women of Utah” have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the “Pioneer”
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honored wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those whose un-
appreciated and senseless winnings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
Truth.
----
﻿		MORMON WOMEN.
				—
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco “Pioneer” of
July 4th:
   “We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
I show.”
   As a “Mormon Woman” I beg a little
space to notico this paragraph.
   What definition the “Pioneer” may give
to the word “intelligent” I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protnules itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the “Pioneer” has been grossly
deceived, and its “pleasure” is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the “in-
telligent women of Utah” have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the “Pioneer”
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honored wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those whose un-
appreciated and senseless winnings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
								TRUTH.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
			     —
  Under this heading we propose publishing
such communications, or extracts from them,
forwarded by ladies, as do not assume
the character of regular articles. Women
of Utah, speak for yourselves! 
  The following is from a private communi-
cation from an old friend, and a subscriber
to the EXPONENT.
  Seeing I am an old-fashioned piece of
goods I shall begin with an excuse. Can’t
you hear the miserable subterfuge—“I’ve


been to busy!” Bah! How I hate an ex- 
cuse! I very seldom believe the person who 
makes one, do you? I read somewhere, 
that “Excuses were lies,” and believe to 
some extent that it is true. The truth with
me is, I don’t like writing. The thought
of taking up a pen to write makes me shiver. 
How shall I get over this dislike? Can you 
tell me?	
  I like the EXPONENT so far very much; I
it tells of sound sense—which, you know, I I
like.	
   We “Mormon women” ought to write and 
tell the world—whether it is pleased to be-
lieve us or not—that we are not the poor, 
oppressed beings we are represented to be.  
I have lived in the great world, you know; 
I have lived here thirteen years, and I re- 
alize that I have not been oppressed here; 
but have been free to come, free to go, free 
to work or let it alone. I was not as free 
in England, nor in the States. I would not 
go to live in either place, or any where else
in preference to this free, wild, mountaineous 
country, with all its deficiencies.	
   Were I a ready writer I could illustrate 
some of the abuses thatsome women have
to put up with at the hands of the “lords of 
creation” in New York and London. In the 
latter place, when a girl of seventeen, I 
hired with a man and his wife to do house- 
work. I was not allowed to go out-side the
door, save once in six weeks from two in the 
afternoon until ten in the evening. When 
I did wrong I was reprimanded; and when I
I did right, the threat of sending me away 
without a character was kept as the sword 
hanging by a hair over my poor head. This 
kept me in subjection for three long years— 
the bitterest of my life. Yet my experience 
was nothing, compared with what many a I
wretched girl possessed of more meekness 
and less resolution than myself is compelled
to put up with, or starve, or do worse. In. 
New York, I went to get sewing to do, and
was treated shamefully by a man, or a being 
who styled himself such. Chicago was better 
to me. I liked that city the best of any I 
ever lived in. But there, men seemed to : 1
look upon woman as a mere plaything, to be
thrown away when they were tired of her. 
   Yet hear their cant and humbug about  
the “downtrodden women of Utah!”   O!  
but you know I hate writing!
				—			MARY.
  This comes from Goshen, dated June, 27:	
  I am glad that the ladies of Utah have 
the privilege of speaking for themselves. I 
have often wished that I might tell the na-  
tions of the earth they are deceived concern- 
ing us. And now, I will say, I am free;
that I know my friends around me are free; 
that the religion we have embraced makes 
us free, and gives us blessings and ad- 
vantages which are not enjoyed by women
elsewhere.						S. R.


﻿BOYS USING TOBACCO.	
				—
	A strong and sensible writer says a good
sharp thing and a true one, about boys who
use tobacco:
	It has utterly spoiled and utterly ruined
many thousands of boys. It tends to soften-
ing and weakening of the bones and the
whole nervous fluid. A boy who smokes
early and frequently, or in any way uses 
large quantities of tobacco, is never known 
to make a man of much energy, and gener-
ally lacks muscular and physical, as well as
mental power. We would particularly warn
boys who want to be anything in the world
to shun tobacco as a most baneful poison. It
injures the teeth, it produces an unhealthy
state of the throat and lungs, hurts the
stomach, and blasts the brain nerves.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOT ALL IN BRINGING UP.
				    —
		It isn’t all in bringing up,
		  Let folks say what they will;
		You silver-wash a pewter cup—
		  It will be pewter still.
		E’en he of old, wise Solomon,
		  Who said "train up a child,”
		If I mistake not, raised a son,
		Gay, rattle brained and wild.

		A man of mark, who fain would pass
		  For lord of sea and land,
		May have the training of an ass,
		  And bring him up full grand:
		May give him all the wealth of lore
		  Of college and of school,
		Yet after all make him no more
		  Than just a decent fool.

		Another, raised by penury
		  Upon her bitter bread,
		Whose road to knowledge is like that
		  The good, for heaven, must tread,
		Has got a spark of Nature’s light,
		  He’ll fan it to a flame.
		Till in its burning letters bright
		  The world may read his name.

		If it were all in bringing up,
		  In counsel and restraint,
		Some rascals had been honest men—
		  I'd been myself, a saint.
		Oh! ’tisn’t all in bringing up,
		  Let folks say what they will;
		Neglect may dim a silver cup—
		  It will be silver still.


MISCELLANEOUS.
			  ——
  AN INDIANA farmer, after trying to trap,
poison and shoot the rats that overrun his
premises, bought two goats and gave them
the range of yards and stables. Within a
week every rat emigrated and stayed away
until the goats were sold—nearly two years
afterwards—when they all came back with
all their friends. A second edition of goats
were procured, and since then not a rat has
been seen on the premises.

    BEAUTIFUL SENTENCE.—“I expect to
pass through this world but once. If, there-
fore, there is any kindness I can do to
any fellow-being, let me do it now. Let me
not defer nor neglect it, for I will not pass
this way again.” Most men live as if they
expected, perhaps, to come around again,
when they will do the kindness they neglect
to do during the present life. Concerned for
self, they fail to love their neighbors, and
distribute none of those sweet charities
which are to our fellow men as the flowers
of spring and the singing of birds. Let the
words of the Quaker stimulate us to do what
we have to do “now.” We will not travel
this way again.
  SAP IN PLANTS.—A Botanist says that
the sap in plants or trees goes up in certain
pipes in the wood or stalk, and when it gets
to the leaves, it turns about and goes back
toward the ground through other pipes in
the live portion of the bark. The sap that
goes up has a great deal of water in it, much
of which Is left with the leaves, so that the
sap which goes down in the bark carries
back to the ground but a comparatively
small quantity of water. Through the pores
of the leaves water is let off into the air.
The sap is not perfect until it has visited
the leaves and been touched by the air,
after which it goes to all portions of the
plant, down through the very roots, and
from it every part of the plant grows. The
new layer of wood which is made from the
inner bark in trees, every year, is formed
from some of this aired sap.
   A BIG CLOCK.—The large clock at the
English parliament house is the largest one
in the world. The four dials of this clock
are twenty-two feet in diameter. Every half
minute the point of the minute hand moves
nearly seven inches. The clock will go eight
and a half days, but only strikes for seven
[new column]
﻿and a half, thus indicating any neglect in
winding it up. The mere winding up of the
striking mechanism takes two hours. The
pendulum is fifteen feet long; the wheels are
of cast iron; the hour bell is eight feet high
and nine feet in diameter, weighing nearly
fifteen tons, and the hammer alone weighs
more than four hundred pounds. This clock
strikes the quarter hours, and by its strokes
the short-hand reporters in the parliament
chambers regulate their labors.  At every
stroke a new reporter takes the place of the
old one, while the first retires to write out
the notes that he has taken during the pre-
vious fifteen minutes.
  A “REPARABLE LOSS.”—The most re-
markable strike we have so far heard of is i
that of five hundred women in the north of
England and against the high price of butch-
er’s meat, potatoes and milk. A lower price
was fixed for those necessaries, and it was
resolved to burn every woman in effigy who
purchased at more than the strike rates.
One weak-minded sister exclaimed, “I must
have milk for my bairn.” “I have a bairn,”
retorted the strong-minded chairwoman,
Mrs. Hetherington, “and can make it some
flour that will answer the same purpose. If
we lose a bairn it is a reparable loss which
can be easily overcome. I propose that we
cease purchasing butcher’s meat, &c., until
the butchers, &c., reduce their prices in ac-
cordance with our terms.” The resolution
was carried with “great applause.”—“Ex-
change.”
  CRUSADE AGAINST WAR.—An eastern
paper says: Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has
crossed the Atlantic to enlist the active sup-
port of the women of England in a crusade
against war. The object of the proposed
crusade is a praiseworthy one, though the
plan is not clearly understood. Are women
to organize into bands of Maids of Saragossa,
and rush with dishevelled hair between con-
tending armies, or are they to moderate the
martial ardor of their husbands by gentle
persuasion to stay at home? The latter plan
would seem to have its disadvantages, for
in case of war between England and France,
if the English women should be successful
in inducing their male defenders to stay at
home, and the French women should not,
the benefits of a peace policy would be rather
one-sided.  It is not surprising that Mrs.
Howe has not met with much success among
the robust damsels of Albion, who have
heard more than they have seen of the evils
of war.  She should try Mexico.
   AN ICICLE TWO THOUSAND MILES LONG.
—According to a letter from St. Johns, N.
F., in the New York “Post,” the Arctic re-
gions have this year thrown off an ice spur
of an unprecedented magnitude, which is
drifting down into the Gulf Stream, and
chilling its tropical temperature. The
writer says that since last January enormous
fields of ice,sometimes 200 miles in breadth,
have been passing the shores of Newfound-
land in almost continuous streams. The
thickness of this field of ice is from twenty
to thirty feet. The distance betwen Baffin’s
Bay, where the ice fields are formed, and
the waters of the Gulf Stream, where the
masses are dissolved, is from 1,500 to 2,-
000 miles. It may be affirmed, without any
exaggeration, that a river of ice, varying
from 50 to 200 miles in breadth and 2,000
miles in length, has been for three months
pouring incessantly its contents into the
tepid waters of the Gulf Stream. Last
winter was fearfully severe, and the quantity
and thickness of the ice unprecedented.
The irruption of this immense mass of ice
into our latitude may account for the cold
and backwark season we then experienced.


﻿FACTS AND. FIGURES.
			—
  IOWA marble is of superior quality.
  CARRARA, Italy, yawns with 168 marble
querrics.
  KEY WEST sends pine-apples by the ship-
load to Baltimore.
  MORE poets flourish successfully in Austria
than in England.
  THERE are over 500,000 affiliated Masons
in the United States.
  PORTUGAL, in a hundred years, has not
quarreled with any power.
  FIVE nations are working this year to raise
flags on the North Pole.
  A DISCOVERY of emeralds has been made
on the Guinea coast of Africa.
  THE latest foreign labor news is to the
effect that 12,000 German miners have
struck.
  TIGER TAIL, a son of the famous Seminole
Chief of the same name, peddles pumpkins
at Key West.
  THE annual expense of protecting the six
thousand inhabitants of Arizona from the
Indians is $4,000,000.
  A NATURAL spring that will intoxicate,
situated near Kern River, Cab, is delighting
the Indians of that vicinity.
  NEW JERSEY raised by a local taxation,
last year, for school purposes, $2,375,000,
which was an average of $14 a pupil actually
attending school.
  THERE is said to be $25,000,000 invested
in silk manufacturies in this country, and
the productions of these manufactures sell
at $30,000,000.
  AN East Saginaw' pastor declines an ad-
dition of $200 to his salary on the ground
that it is more than he wants to do to collect
the salary that he already has.
  THERE are over 650,000 scholars inatteiul-
ance at the public schools in Illinois. Teach-
ers number over 20,000. School houses, log,
frame, brick and stone, 10,773. Expend-
itures for school purposes for the last year,
$7,000,000.
  ST. VINCENT, Fla., is an island of 7,000
acres, owned and occupied for the past three
years by Mr. Hatch, a gentleman of intelli-
gence and fortune, formerly Mayor of Cin-
cinnati, who chooses to lead here the life of
a hermit, solitary and alone, save with a
servant or two, and seeing few visitors.
  IMMIGRATION into all parts of the State is
large. The influx is now setting in in full
tide. Not less than 75,000 people will be
added to the population of Nebraska in the
year 1872, and in less than ten years a mil-
lion souls will occupy this magnificent region,
whose arable area is fifty per cent, larger
than that of Illinois.
  THE library of the University of Stras-
bourg now numbers 200,000 volumes. The
old library had. from 300,000 to 700,000
volumes, and was so loosely managed that
no catalogue was ever made of it, nor is
there now a leaf of it extant. Any man in
Strasbourg or the province, of Alsace may
draw books. The city, however, is attempt-
ing to found an opposition  library, and is
soliciting aid through Europe.
  SAMUAL A. HITCHCOCK, of Brimfield, has
just given $100,000 to Amherst College and
$50,000 to Phillips Academy, at Andover.
Each of these institutions has at a previous
time received $75,000 from Mr. Hitchcock.
At Andover he established the Hitchcock
professorship of Hebrew language and
literature, and at Amherst the professor-
ship of natural theology and geology, also
bearing his name, besides six scholarships.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TASTE.
			   —	
    ﻿That fine, sensitive faculty which enables
us to perceive and enjoy the beautiful, ex-
cellent, or elegant, in nature and art, cannot
be too carefully cultivated. A person who
is entirely unacquainted with Nature, can-
not be a person of good taste, not knowing
whether the production of art resembles
Nature or not; and unless this knowledge is
possessed to some extent, no real satisfac-
tion can be received from the imitative arts.
A lively imagination, clear and distinct ap-
preciation of things, good sense, and the
Iove of virtue, delicacy and correctness are
some of the features to be gained, before
beauty, sublimity, harmony, sweetness and
all those characteristics which speak such
volumes of rapturous delight to the educated
eye and ear, can be received or appreciated.
It is said, and is undoubtedly correct in a
gereral sense, that the toilet of a lady be-
tokens her taste; that to dress simply and
without ostentation is a mark of modesty;
to wear many bright, glaring colors, a flaunt-
ing, red, yellow, or sky-blue hat covered
with ribbons, or as much jewelry as can be
loaded on, gives evidence of an uncultivated
mind and taste. A waist too small for the
natural proportions of the body is styled the
worst possible deformity, and must be the
workings of a narrow, unexpanding mind
and bad taste, if produced by sinning against
the laws of nature by tight lacing.


﻿ PRESIDENT GRANT is an L. L. D. Har-
vard conferred the parchment.


Z. C. M. I.

	  RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
	SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty,
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.

		  Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
					In the World.
  Sows Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
  Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
    At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,

	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.

			MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
  Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M’me Demorest’s
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

				JOHNSON'S

		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS.  Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

        	 ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

  AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of 
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
[new column]


			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

   They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

   Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ?  “ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

   For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah:

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	    $2.00	1 Copy six months, 	 $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

  Address all communications .and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1872.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
		     
  GONE to rest—The “New York Standard.”
  TO LEARN the value of money—try to
borrow some.
  GRANTS wanted for everything, even for
the National head.
  IT is considered too revolting for soldiers
to shoot a woman, in Paris, and Cantinicer
Gugard, convicted of firing on Bishop Jural,
is to be guillotined.
  EDITH O’Gorman, lecturing on the
Sisters of Charity and Mercy, pronounces
them little better than prostitutes. She must
be crazed and is to be pitied.
  POLITICAL interests are looked after
eveywhere, and party feeling manifested,
even at the Peace Jubilee, where the French
and German bands were coldly civil to each-
other.
  “LIKE begets like.” Seventeen years
ago, a Judge, in Georgia, sentenced John
Dolton to be hung; and a few days ago the
same Judge performed the shine office for
John Dolton’s son.
  SOME enlightened women hold that the
Father designed for man to eat of the for-
bidden fruit; but seeing the consequences,
he had not fortitude to meet the requisition,
so his wife had to do it for him.
  JUAREZ is reported to have been a man
of much firmness, an able General and
politician, a faithful and energetic Presi-
dent; who won the hearts of all, both friends
and foes. Will his successor prove as true
and as beneficial to his country?
  A DELEGATE in the Wisconsin Demo
cratic convention, after struggling vainly in
opposition to the nomination of Greeley,
says, “When we come to die, next Nov-
ember, we shall wish we had not forsaken
the path of virtue.” Honest fellow!
  MRS. Livermore sensibly remarks that
she is in favor of the Republican party,
whether it gives the women Suffrage or not,
even if it does not recognize them at all; be-
cause it advocates all other good things,
and our cause will come in due time.
  MRS. Kellison, an Iowa preacher, recently
delivered a lecture, having for her text,
“Love divided into four parts; L for Love,
O for Obedience, V for Victory and E for
Eternity.” The text is decidedly novel, and,
doubtless, the discourse was elaborate and
entertaining.
  A PORTION of the jewels belonging to the
Empress Eugenie were sold at  auction, a
short time ago, in the rooms of Messrs.
Christie, Mason & Co. The amount realized
was upwards of $250,000 in gold. Nothing
for her—but wouldn’t half the sum make
some poor people rich!
  IT is reported that since the fiasco at
Baltimore, Mrs. E. Cady Stanton,: Mrs.
Laura De Force Gordon, Miss Anthony, and
nearly all the conspicious Women Suffragists
have concluded to support Grant and Wil-
son. Changes will occur, but they are not
always improvements.
  IN Iowa there is no provisions of the law
Which excludes women from holding any
office to which they may be elected. In
several Counties women are holding
elective offices. When the right of suffrage
[new column]
is granted to the women there, whata happy 
State Iowa will be!
  MISS J. F. Ripley has the honor of being
the first woman who has surpassed the men
in the contest of Greek scholarship; for
which she takes the first prize at the State
University of Missouri. This will be en-
couraging to the advocates of a liberal educa-
tion for women.
  GRATITUDE one of the happiest and most
noble attributes with which man has been
endowed, is finely evinced in the character
of the Liberal Democratic candidate for Vice-
President, B. Gratz Brown, in his speech at
New Haven, in which lie acknowledges
that he owes the honors and compliments
he receives as much if not more to his
“Alma mater” than to himself.
  PRIVATE Instructions, to little folks, and
home influences have long been allowed to
be best rendered by woman, and now her
capabilities assume a broader and higher
sphere of action. Mrs. Ellen Webster, the
first woman elected to a county office
in Kansas, has just taken the oath and
been qualified as Superintendent of public
instruction in Harvey County.
  IN March, 1871, an American woman,
Mrs. Emily Gould, opened, in Rome, at her
own expense and with the co-operation of
some of her generous lady-compatriots, a
free school for poor boys and girls. In which
are taught both Italian and English; geogra-
phy,arithmetic,history and the first elements
of the physical sciences. Here is wisdom
and a proper usage of time, means and in-
fluence
  A LADY in this City, over sixty years of
age, finds in the “Portage Co., (O.) Demo-
crat” “A Poetic Address” delivered atMan-
tua on the Fourth of July, 1815, at a celebra-
tion in which she participated, when eleven
years old; and so well does her memory
serve her that she repeats line after line of
the poem without glancing at the paper.
Fifty-seven years is quite a time for a simple
little poem to sleep in an active brain, and
then wake up when called upon, as fresh
and bright as it was when laid away.
  ONE of the most cruel and heartless
punishments that can be inflicted upon
child is to place it in a position where fear
of danger is sustained, whether real or imag-
inary. Don’t do it you who have the care
of youth. Mark the awful consequences
which followed such a transaction, not long
since, in Detroit. A four-year old boy was
left by his parents alone in the house,
though he screamed loudly and begged to
be taken with them, saying he was afraid of
bears and wolves. When they returned, it
was to find their boy insane, and it is feared
he will be a consummate idiot all his life.
  THE orthodox people of England, who
hoped the illness of the Prince of Wales
would cause a radical reform in his course
of life, are getting disheartened again. They
began to be encouraged from his saying in
a speech, that he hoped, by the aid of God
to be of use to his country. But the same
evening he went to see Toole in a dark
play, and laughed inconsiderately, and has
since been to Ascot and other races, and
shows every sign of goihg back into the
graceless fellow he used to be. It is a little
[new column]strange that England, with such a head as
Queen	Victoria, does not concede at once
and fully to the Woman Suffrage movement.
  IT IS now reported that Chinese archives,
having been researched, show that the
architects who designed and the engineers
who built the great wall were women. No
doubt but the statement is correct; but even
if it were not, women must have the credit
of being mothers to the great architects and
engineers which is quite as good. For true
women are more thankful, if possible, for
the glorious deeds enacted by their
noble sons than for any notable work
of their own hands. And they do not
desire that women should be credited with
every worthy action that is performed; it is
enough that no hero, however great, ever
existed without a mother. 
	"THE City of broken hearts," is the
original, romantic name which Mrs. Duni-
way gives to the "Mormon burying ground,"
of which she says: "The largest class of
occupants are 'first wives', who died in their
heroic efforts to become reconciled to the
wonderufl beauty of the practical workings
of the Mormon faith." How could she
have found that out? Even had she taken
the time to walk through the grave yard
and inspect the tombstones and head boards,
(which she doesn't say she did,) the "wicked
Mormons," are not in the habit of inserting
upon these simple monuments the cause of
death; no more than they tell what Brigham
Young does with all the property he takes 
from "apostate women, and their daughters."
  THE "Memphis Appeal" of July 2, con-
tains a striking letter written in March,
from Jackson, Miss., by Bennet Jones to
Dr. Dameron; in which the former coolly
and plainly asks the latter to send his (the
Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron
among other things, that he and Mggie
(the Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron,
among other things, that he and Maggie
(the Doctor's wife) love each other devoted-
ly, and that in the sight of God she belongs
to him. This letter was a portion ot the
testimony evinced in favor of Dameron,
who was acquitted in his trial at the Crim-
inal Court for shooting Jones, who, it also
appears had a wife living. A couple of
divorce cases might have prevented the
murder, but Dameron failed to see the
beauty of such proceedings and took the
next best and most popular way of getting
out of domestic difficulties.
  THE "Pioneer" pronounces the incident
relative to Mrs. Emily' Pitts Stevens and
her pistol, of very little importance, and
states that at the meeting at Platt's Hall,
where the occurence form which the ex-
citement was raised took place, ex-Assem-
blyman Meeker, without just cause, openly
reprimanded those who were earnest in
their applause of sentiments expresses, co-
inciding with their own views; even calling
out Mrs. Stevens name. For which insult,
at the close of the meeting the lady de-
manded an apology.  Meeker refused to
comply, whereupon, some on handed Mrs.
Stevens a small derringer, which she
thoughtlessly put into her pocket. She is
decidedly opposed to the use of fire-arms
and had no thought of using the derringer.
This is a better and more consistent story
than the oner told by California papers, soon
after the incident occurred.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN ADDRESS FROM THE YOUNG
			LADIES.
			    —
WRITTEN ON THE OCCASION OF A RETRENCHMENT
 ASSOCIATION PARTY, GIVEN ON THE TWENTY-
 FOURTH OF JULY, 1872, BEING THE TWENTY
 FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ENTRANCE OF
 THE PIONEERS INTO THE VALLEY OF THE GREAT
 SALT LAKE.	
		
  When ca led upon, in such a kindly way,
We, from our heart, a few good things can say:
'Tis good to be a Saint of God, and live  
In the pure light His loving mercies give; 
'Tis good to gather at a time like this,
And yield awhile to animated bliss;
'Tis good to mark the change which now appears,
Among the Saints in five and twenty years. 

They came to Utah—came with heart and mind
Giv’n to their God. and to His will resigned;
They settled here—’t has oft been sta ed how,
We know the difference ’tween then and now.
Good is the picture illustration paints
Of God's protection to His faithful Saints;
How, ’mid privations stern, and trying toil.
He blest their labors, blest the seed and soil.

  'Tis good for us to know the Gospel Truth,
Which brightly beams upon us in our youth;
And that our patients have that faith embraced, 
Which will unite the humble, pure and chaste;
And banish all who love, and revel in
The ways of vice, licentiousness and sin:
And it is good that we need not disguise,
The holy feelings which -such thing's despise.

  We may and do.despise the seeming man,
Who seeks to baffle the Almighty’s plan;
Which is to save, exalt and elevate.
Woman, with man, made noble, wise and great:
We cannot, in false friendship, seem to clothe
The dread we bear for deeds we justly loathe!
Yet with compassion’s voice would fain recall,
Vice’s wretched dupes who gaze, and yield and fall!

  We know that we are free—our freedom gives
That confidence, for which proud woman lives;
For we have pride, not that which fumes and flaunts
O’er fashion’s follies and her favorite haunts; 
But ignorance and fripp’ry thrown aside,
True dignity and virtue are our pride;
Our motto Honor, Truth our whole defense,
Our aim to perfect rich intelligence.

  Hence, we regard those who are Saints indeed,
A[-] having right our youthful steps to lead; 
And never to ought else may we submit,
Or in the least descend to follow it.
We feel that we are safe, while being led
By trusty followers of our lawful Head;
And, sooner wou'd we all unite to-day
With one GOOD MAN than one be led astray.

   Not lacking charity, would gladly see,
All mortals healthy, happy, blessed as we;.
Possessing, morals which alone can make 
The sweetest joys of which mankind partake:.
Grateful to God for His parental care,
Anxious that all the same good gifts should share;
And closely follow where our helmsman steers,
To lives Eternal in Celestial spheres.

   Ere we conclude, we wish to humbly pay,
A generous tribute to the passing day; 
Oft clothed in gladness may it reappear,
Still, to the Saints held sacred, sweet and dear,
And crown anew, with love and peace each year,
The home of every good, brave Pioneer;	
Their friends, their neighbors, kindred great and small,
Wives, sons and daughters, Heaven, bless them all!
				—
			    SONG.
				—
  The object of Retrenchment, for us, 1$:
	Not to sit us down in sadness,
	  With our faces grim and long;
	Not to chase the smile of gladness,
	  Not to hush the voice of song.
	Not to miss one pure, true pleasure,
	 Worthy space in heart or brain;
	Not to lose a single treasure—'
	 But a precious store td gain.

	Ladies, who o'er idle fashions,
	  Waste their time and strength and thought,
	Feeding vain and selfish passions,
	  'While their lives amount to nought;
	Know not of the untold sweetness
	   Wrought for those who cultivate,
	Powers of worth which in completeness,
	   Ev’ry virtue will create.	

	Scoffers laugh and mock their plainness.
	  Casting slurs and jeers thereat;
	Pause they for the worlds insaneness?
	  No, they have not time for that;
[new column]

	'Tis enough they fill their missions,
	   Fraught with noble womanhoos;
	Wake their souls and dispositions,
	   Sweet and rich and pure and good.

	Ot to think that f shion's bubbles,
	  From one care could set us free,
	Is, like courting causeless roubles,
	   Nonsense to the first degree:
	Let no honest mind be darkened,
	   Future scenes will shortly prove
	Who to wisdom's voice hath hearkened,
	  Aided every godlike move.


________________
	﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
  The Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Assocl
ation of the Eleventh Ward, of this city,
held a highly creditable meeting on Thurs-
day, ‘July- 18th. After singing and prayer,
articles from the Bible, Book of Mormon
“Millennial Star” and other works were
read, by officers and members of the Associ-
ation, “Selfishness” was the subject chosen
at the meeting previous, to be spoken upon
Many animated and instructive remarks
were made, and rich hints given upon that
topicand others. The genuine spirit of
purity and freedom which pervaded the
meeting, seemed to render all present joy-
ous and happy. The manner in which those
meetings, held every Thursday afternoon,
are conducted and attended, is very com-
mendable, both to the President Mrs. Mary
Freeze, and the members of the Society.
				—
  Mrs. Amelia, M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden City July 20th, 1872: The Sisters
came over from Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments, both belonging to one precinct, and
asked of and were granted by Bro. F.D.
Richards, the privilege of holding a two
days' Conference of the F. R. Society, when
they issued invitations to some of the Ogden
Sisters. I, for one can testify  the two days'
meeting, and to me it is a testimony that
the formation of the Society is of God. 
	The Conference convened the first day,
July 16th, at Lynne; Sister Ann Becking-
ton, President of the joint Society of Lynne
and Marriott settlements, presiding. Sisters
present from Ogden, President Mrs. Harriet
Brown, Secretary Mrs. A. M. Frodsham,
Treasurer Miss Rosalthie Canfield, Sisters
Jane Richards, Maria Ballantyne, Eveline
Farley and others. Meeting opened with
singing, and prayer by Mrs. M. Ballantyne.
Minutes read by Mrs. Perry, Secretary.
President Mrs. Beckington spoke, welcom-
ing the Sisters from Ogden, and stating that
they had collected, in the Society $100 for
the Emigration Fund. During the forenoon
meeting, addresses were made by Sister
A. M. Frodsham, President H. Brown,
Sisters J. Richards and M. Ballantyne from
Ogden; and Sister Tracy, of Lynne. All
felt well and bore faithful testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work, and the good-
ness of God to His children. The meeting
closed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
Tracy. 
  Met again at 2 p.m. Called to order;
singing; prayer by President Mrs. Becking-
ton; singing by the Scandinavian  Sisters in
their own tongue. 
	Elders F. D. Richards, Herricks and Farr
were expected at the meeting, but as they
did not arrive President Mrs. Beckington
called on the Sisters belonging to her Society
to speak. The Scandinavian Sisters bore
their testimonies, and instructing and en-
couraging remarks were made by Sister
Bingham and several others.  "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning" was sung.
Other remarks followed, and the meeting
adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 a.m., at
Marriott settlement. 
[new column]
	Dismissed with singing, and prayer by
President Mrs. Brown.
	At 10 a.m., July 17, Conference convened,
pursuant to adjournment, in the school
house at Marriott settlement; Sister Beck-
ington presiding.  Singing; prayer by Sister
Ballantyne; singing by the Scandinavian
Sisters in their own tongue; minutes read
and approved. Sisters Beckington, Ballan-
tyne and Frodsham made remarks. Miss
R. Canfield read a report of the Ogden
Society, from the EXPONENT, and after-
ward addressed the meeting.  She was fol-
lowed by Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs Emily
Richards, Miss J. Richards and President
Mrs. Beckington.  After which the meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m.  Prayer by Mrs. 
Frodsham. 
	At 2 p.m., the Conference again con-
vened.  Meeting opened with singing;
prayer by Mrs. Hannah Baird; singing by
the Scandinavian Sisters.  Speakers: Sisters
Beckington, Baird and Cordon.
    At about 3 o'clock, Elder Richards arrived.
He stated that he had been detained by the
fire in Ogden.  He felt very much pleased
to see the deep interest manifested by the
Sisters in seeking to do good; they are not
sent abroad to the world, but have missions
at home which are great and responsible.
Sending for the poor is the beginning of
their redemption.
   Elder Harrison spoke a short time.
   It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Mrs. A. M. Frodsham send a report of
this Conference to the "EXPONENT."
  Conference adjourned "sine die."
  Benediction by Elder Marriott.
  The very interesting and beneficial, two 
days' meeting, of which the foregoing is a
brief  synopsis, was inaugerated and con-
ducted by Sisters Beckington, Tracy, Baird
and Parry, of Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments. 
			___
	The following is from Mrs. Maria Parkin-
son, of Wellsville, Cache County, under date
July 25th:
  This branch of the Female Relief Society
is in a very healthy condition.  After de-
ducting $102.05 for the relief of the poor for
the year, we have on hand $352.23. We have
also donated $50 to the P.E. Fund.  When
the fact that for the last six years we have
had the terrible plague of grasshoppers to
contend with is taken into consideration, we
think we have done well.  Our efforts have
been blessed; the poor have been comforted,
and the labors of our Bishop greatly relieved.
It is a labor of love on which our Father in
heaven smiles approvingly.


﻿PROVIDENCE MADE both tear and  laugh-
ter, and both for kind purposes; for .as laugh-
ter enables mirth and surprise to breathe
freely, so tears enable sorrow to vent Itself
patiently. Tears hinder sorrow from be-
coming despair and madness; and laughter
is one of the very highest privileges’of. rea-
son, being confined to the human species.


﻿“MADAM,” SAID a husband to his young
wife in a little altercation which will spring
up in the best regulated families, “when a
man,and his wife, have quarreled and .each
considers the other at fault, which of the
two ought to advance towards reconcilia-
tion?”  “The best natured, and wiser of
the two,” said the. wife, putting up her
mouth for a kiss which was given with
unction.


The Baroness Nathaniel de Rothschild is
an industrious and accomplished artist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SOME WOMEN imagine they look well in
anything, and consequently go about in the
dowdiest kind of style.  Arms out at the
elbows are endurable, but when it comes to
sour hair and toes out of stockings and shoes,
it is too much.


MY SISTER, LEONORA A. MORLEY.
			----
DEDICATED TO HER FRIENDS IN BRIGHAM
  CITY, WHERE SHE DEPARTED THIS LIFE,
  FEBRUARY 11, 1872.

  'Tis hard to part with those we dearly love,
But parting comes to all.
					   No purer tie-
No holier sympathy warms human breast,
Than that of loving sisterhood, where heart
To heart is joined and interwoven with
A long, well tested and unbroken chain
Of mutual confidence—a confidence
Unstirred by envy, jealousy, or breach
Of sacred trust: Where the broad stream of thought
Flows unabridg'd: where each can think aloud.
Such was the love inspiring confidence,
Strengthened as years accumulated with
My sister and myself. Ours was the sweet
Reciprocation where each sentiment
Found safe repository—safe as heaven's
Eternal archives.
					   But my sister's gone!
I feared—I felt—I knew she soon would go,
But when beside her bed I watch'd, and saw
The last faint breath which fed the spring of life
Exhaled, it seemed frail nature's tend'rest cord
Was rent asunder, and a crushing sense
Of loneliness, like solitude's deep shade,
In that unguarded moment made me feel
As though the lights of earth had all gone out,
And left me desolate.
					 I knew't was false—
I knew that many noble, loving ones,
And true, remained; but none can fi’l
The vacant place—it is impossible;
Th' endearing ties we hold as saints of God,
The ties of consanguinity, secured
By sacred cov'nants which the Priesthood bind
On earth, and 't is recorded in the heavens,
We shall perpetuate beyond the grave;
Eternal union with the cherished ones
Will crown the glory of immortal lives.
  True love may multiply its object mosts
Extensively without diminishing
Its strength, but love accepts no substitute.
   When the fond mother lays her darling down
In death's cold, silent sleep, though others may
Be added to her arms, the vacancy
Remains until the resurrection shall
Give back her child.
						My sister faithfully
Life's changeful battle waged—her life was full
Of years—her years were fill'd with usefulness:
Her trust was in the living God, who hears
And speaks as He was wont to hear and speak.
She loved the Gospel and exemplified
It in her life. Her heart knew no deceit,
Her lips ne'er moved with fulsome flattery,
Her tongue with guile. Other positions of
Responsibility, as well as those
Of wife and mother she has nobly filled.
Her sun went down in peace.  For her death had
No sting—the grave will have no victory—
Her noble spirit lives and dwells above.
  The casket rests—The pure component part,
The' eternal portion of the human form,
In life combined with the gross element,
Sleeps in the bosom of our mother Earth,
Secure from nature's changing processes—
Despite decomposition's complex skill.
  But the gross, earthly substance, that which is
Both tangible to mortal sight and touch—
Formed with affinities that downward tend
Strength'ning our hold on this our lower life,
Clinging to earth as like adheres to like
This, soon as life becomes extinct, by dint
Of one of nature's fundamental laws,
The law of restitution, has commenced,
And separates till all is disengaged—
Till every particle shall be restored
Back to its native element, to be
Transformed in infinite varieties
To new creations and in other forms—
Through every grade of life and being here,
From earth and herbage up to brute and man—
From land to land—from clime to clime transferred;
Leaving the pure unchanging element
( When all that is corruptible has been
Dissolved and passed away) to rest—to sleep
Until the glorious resurrection morn.
And then come forth in triumph from the tomb
And clothe the spirit with immortal bloom.
  Adieu my sister, we shall meet again,
And live on earth when Jesus Christ shall reign.
							 ELIZA R. SNOW





﻿


A BARBER is always ready to scrape an
acquaintance, and often cuts them too.


IT'S THE way with mites—there is not
one of them that does not think himself the
entire cheese.


A MISER grows rich by seeming poor; an
extravagent man grows poor by seeming
rich.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS
				—
 A WOMAN who attempts to carry out-
plans of system, order and economy, is con-
stantly liable to have them crossed, and her
expectations violated by the inexperience
or negligence of those about her. The busi-
ness of housekeeping consists of items so
small that for want of care and order, the
whole often becomes a confused mass, and
everything must, inevitably go wrong. Al-
though, at such times, an orderly house-
keeper is apt to be irritated and feel like
giving vent to her irritability in harsh, re-
proving words, a calm, decided spirit is the
best calculated to meet such difficulties, for
the restoration of complete discipline. Scold-
ing does not do much good, and a con-
tinuous stream of complaint and reproof is
generally met by sullen silence or imperti-
nence from a child or a domestic. Anger is
likely to prevent any resolution of future
amendment, or any regret for past misde-
meanor. A woman should regard her duties,
as dignified, important and difficult, and her
mind may be soothed and even elevated by
a sense of the far-reaching influence of her
example. If she feels that she is a cypher
and that it makes little difference how she
performs her duties, she has far less to
sustain her than if she feels the importance
of her station and the weight of her respon-
sibilities.
	FOR HOUSE PLANTS.—A good fertilizer is
made by dissolving one ounce of glue in one
gallon of water and use for moistening the
plants.
	TO CLEAN DECANTERS.—The best way to
clean decanters, after wine has stood in them
for some time, is to wash them out with a
little pearl-ash and warm water, adding, if
necessary, a spoonful or two of fresh slacked
lime.  A few very small cinders will facili-
tate the action of the fluid against the sides
of the vessel.
	FOR HOARSENESS.—Take the whites of
two eggs, beat them and add two spoonsful
of white sugar; grate in a little nutmeg and
then add a pint of luke-warm water. Stir
well and drink often. Repeat the prepara-
tion if necessary, and it is said to cure the
most obstinate case of hoarseness in a com-
paratively short time.
	WHITE of eggs for burns is now used ex-
tensively, and seems to be preferable to
collodion or cotton. Seven or eight success-
ive applications of this substance, sooths
pain; and it effectually excludes the air
from the burn.
	LEMON SPONGE.—Dissolve one ounce of
isinglass in a pint of boiling water; when
cold, strain it and add the juice of three
lemons, strained; two ounces of white sugar,
the rind of a lemon cut very thin; beat all
together and strain it.  When nearly cold,
add the whites of two eggs well beaten and
whisk it until it becomes of the consistency
of sponge; wet a mould and put in the
sponge. It should be partly settled before
the whisking is commenced, or it will take
longer to do.
	RAISED CAKE WITHOUT EGGS.—Stir to-
gether a large coffee cupful of light brown
or white sugar and half a cupful of butter;
add half a pint of sweet milk arid half a pint
of warm water; stir in flour enough to make
a thick batter and half a cupful of yeast; set
it to rise over night and in the morning stir
in a cupful of chopped raisins or currants,
and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves
and nutmeg. Put into baking pans; let it
rise until perfectly light, and then bake
slowly.


ONE WAY LIFE IS BLIGHTED.
			—
	A part of the misery in the world
arises from persons, not understanding each
other; sometimes from selfish indifference
on the subject, sometimes from thinking
that to do so is petty and puerile. Two
people, for instance, are thrown into inti-
mate daily relations. One understands no
suffering that is not purely physical. If he
is not hungry, if he is not thirsty, if he is
not cold, if he has a roof over his head, if he
is not bothered,  whether-necessarily. or
otherwise his life is rounded off. To shed 
a tear for lack of sympathy, or appreciation,
or love, after that is to him lunacy, and to
be treated as such, with a hard, Gradgrind
non-recognition worthy of such a creed.
Now, imagine a sensitive nature, delicately
susceptible to the “little things”—miscalled
so—which make up our lives, grieving over
rough or indifferent words, where tender 
recognition should have come at the right
moment, like medicine—a tenderness which
costs nothing, perhaps only a simple word
or caress, or look, even; hungering day after
day for something besides the hard practi-
calities of life—imagine such a person keep-
ing back as far as possible the unshed tears,
conscientiously, nevertheless, doing duty—
labor—day after day, week after week,
month after month, with a heavy heart; and
the other eating; sleeping, drinking, as in-
different to the suffering caused as if life
and loyalty were fulfilled by these  latter
conditions.
	It is very poor comfort to answer that dif-
fering natures have differing limitations;
just as one vessel may hold a gallon and
another a pint, and each be useful in its
way. Would it not be well for this stolid
nature, voluntarily choosing such relation-
ship, to ask the question whether there may
not be real suffering in these cases, though
he himself “Never felt so, and therefore
can’t understand it?” Is it not duty, as
well as wisdom, in such juxtaposition, to
make an effort to “understand it,” and not
coolly to deny its existence, or pronounce it 
a sham, because he has only one nerve
sensitive to pain or pleasure where the
other has a hundred?
	It is pitiful to think how, for the want of
this, some natures, like prisoned birds, beat
themselves against the bars of a relentless
fate, till, bruised and maimed, they drop, at
least for the timebeing, into a hopeless des-
pair, their songs stifled, their wings clipped,
and darkness and silence reigning, where
brightness and music might so easily have
come.	
	Ali, it is blessed that in another world
there will be no limitations. Else how could
Heaven be, with natures one half paralyzed,
as here, for want of Space to expand—chilled,
stunted, frowned upon, denounced, for lack
of that charity without which all else is
comparatively valueless?
	“I never felt so; it is all nonsense.” I
neVer yet saw those cruel words in-
scribed on a tombstone as the cause of death.


ONE THING brings upanother, especially if
the first thing is an emetic.


IF YOU want to test the ingenious tortures
of the inquisition, place a pretty girl in the
house with a lot of old spinsters to live. If
they do not get her on the rack, within a
month, it will be an exceptional case.


36				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1.  Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
								    Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1872


﻿SPLINTERS.

	London has four thousand miles of streets.
.........Harvesting is about over in Virginia...
Twenty ocean steamships now ply between
New Orleans and Europe......On the first
day of July, the women of Illinois were
made eligible to hold appointive offices in
that State.....The Press Association in Lon-
don are disputing as to which first sent to
America the news of the result of the late
boating contest......The strikers in New
York have cut down the building going on
there nearly one-half, as compared with last
year......The Woman Suffragists of Missouri
are a unit for Grant and Wilson........A wood-
en water pipe factory is to be started in
Salem.......The Caledonian Society in Lon-
don gets up fancy balls in which some of
the guests attire themselves to represent
the ancient Picts and Scots......Gen. Grant
has placed in office twenty-three blood rela-
tives and eighteen who are relatives by
marriage......The woman movement has not
sensibly modified the social atmosphere of
St. Louis.......General Porter will shortly
make public a list of Democrats who are
going to stump for Grant......A Catacazy
pamphlet is published at Long Branch, in
which the ex-Minister endeavors to vindi-
cate himself from charges brought against
him by Sectretry Fish, and says he was not
dismissed from his position, but relieved at
his own request........The yacht “Josephine”
recently capsized in a gale, off Bedhoes’
Island, and sank; passengers and crew were
saved.........A Boston special has not the
slightest doubt that General Banks has de-
termined to abandon the administration
and array himself on the side of the Democ-
racy.......The first success of the Woman
Suffrage movement in England is said to
be the result of a surprise, being earned
through Parliament before conservative
people got their eyes open......A writer
from St. Louis says, that city confidently
expects to become the capital of the United
States and to supersede Boston as the hub
of the universe.......Ladies are to be admitted
to the Young Men’s Christian Union, of
Chicago, and the name is to be changed to
the Christian Union.....Ladies in square
cut bodices are not admitted to Queen Vic-
toria’s drawing rooms......The Board of Vis-
itors, at West Point, in their annual report,
animadvert severely upon many things
about the academy.....Six Chinamen were
killed and two others severely wounded, a
few days since, by the explosion of a blast,
on the new road between Carson and Reno.
........An extensive coal bed is being de-
veloped on Reynolds’ Creek, near Cabbing-
ton’s, Idaho.......It is reported that A. T.
Stewart has given $30,000 to aid in the
election of Greeley.......At an influential
meeting of English Catholics, in London,
the action against the Pope, of the Italian
Government, and the new German law pro-
scribing the Jesuits, were condemned.......A
school house in Copenhagen, Denmark, is
furnished for one thousand children......One
of the rumors concerning the shooting of
McMullin is, that it grew out of some diffi-
culty in the Moyamensing Association.......
A number of Roman coins have recently
been found in Wales.....For a poem of 1,-
500 lines, the “Overland Monthly” pays
Joaquin Miller $2,000.......Romeo, the big
elephant, died lately from the effects of an
operation to cure his diseased leg......Nearly
200 cases of sunstroke occurred in one day
of July, in New York, of which sixty were
fatal...Two Japanese youngsters are being
educated at Forest Grove university, Oregon.
......The “Lady Elgin” is the name of a
neat little journal published by the ladies of
[new column]
the Elgin Watch manufactory........A $44,-
000 Court house is to be erected this season
at Modesta......The question of the succes-
sion to the Turkish throne, still creates
much excitement in Turkey.......A Salem,
Massachusetts paper says, General Grant’s
greatest fault is that he stands in the way of
so many candidates to the Presidency......
The Gerke vineyard in Tahama County,
California, covers an area of 150 acres, all in
a full state of cultivation.......Mr. M. G. Up-
ton, leading editor of the “Alta California”
for ten years, has retired, and Mr. Frank
Soule succeeds him.......Fans made of the
scales of fish have been introduced and will,
doubtless, soon be very popular......Billy
Edwards, the light-weight champion, and
Batt Mullins, an English bruiser, have been
matched for $1,000 a side and the light-
weight championship of America......A cor-
respondent of the Washinton “Patriot” says
that the title of L. L. D. bestowed on Mr.
Grant means “Lover of Large Donations.....
The printers’ strike in Milwaukee created
greater excitement than any event since
the Chicago conflagration......A patent for
ear, cheek and chin muffs has been granted
to William Powellware, of New York.


﻿FACTS.
			    —
	A great many people who visit Salt Lake
City and remain over night, or a couple of days
and nights, go away imagining themselves
tolerably well informed with regard to affairs
in Utah. An account of a visit to Salt Lake
and what was learned, appears in some news-
paper; and after reading it, no one need be in
doubt as to what sort of person or persons the
writers have been entertained by while here; if
there appears a shadow of truth in the article.
Once in a while an humble visitant sees only
good in us, and illustrates the Mormons as be-
ing all happy, all virtuous, intelligent, temper-
ate, moral and industrious. This, however, is
rarely the case, as we are most likely to be
misjudged in a less pleasant style.  Even those
who wish to be unprejudiced, and treat with
candor what they are led to observe, have their
eyes blinded and their minds darkened concern-
ing Utah and the Mormons, and represent un-
truths which they themselves may believe to
be correct.
	The Mormons do not claim to  have
reached a standard of perfection yet. They do
not assume to have overcome the world, its
evils, temptations and sufferings. They never
insinuate that there are no bad people among
them; no inebriates, liars, thieves, fools, scound-
rels and hypocrites. They are ever ready to
confess that there are numbers, professing to be
Latter-day Saints, whom his Satanic majesty
might blush to acknowledge as his relatives.
To say they are all contented would not be
true; that none in Polygamy find it a cross
would be false. But that as a people, and mak-
ing the statement in a general sense, the Mor-
mons are the most temperate, industrious,
chaste and generous in their desires and


practices, and, in consequence of this, the most
felicitous in their everyday life, of any class of
people extant, is one principle to which they
adhere. And one proof of the efficacy of the
basis upon which this faith is built, is evinced
by the spirit manifested in the reports of meet-
ings held by women outside and inside of Mor-
mondom. Minutes of meetings held in San Fran-
cisco and other places, show that the women
are dissatisfied with their present position and
wish to burst the bonds of tyranny in which
they consider themselves bound. While min-
utes of those held in Utah speak of peace, good-
will, satisfaction and thankfulness for the great
blessings with which the majority of the Mormon
women consider themselves surrounded. And
yet, these very women who are so anxious to
free themselves, misrepresent the women of
Utah as “broken-hearted,down-trodden, misera-
ble creatures,” whom they imagine have no
sense or spirit.
	If their position is happier for them than
ours would be, we are willing that they should
maintain it, and improve it as fast and as
much as possible. We have no thought of ex-
changing with them, or drawing over to their
views and opinions; for while in the possession
of our senses, we prize our freedom too highly
to yield it so unprofitably; and only regret the
waste of sympathy lavished upon us, who
neither need nor appreciate it.


﻿   WHY WOMEN SHOULD VOTE.

	While many women care nothing about the
ballot or politics, and would avert the trouble
of voting were the right granted to them with-
out their asking for it; others have formed
themselves into serried bodies of contending,
pugnacious clamorers, whose vociferations are
difficult to be traced or understood. Yet it is
supposable that they think, by the purveyance
of the power to vote for those they believe most
worthy and best calculated to be placed as dic-
tators and rulers over the people, they should
be able to render that purgation to the world
which is so manifestly necessary.
	But were that power which they so enthusi-
asticly claim the right to possess, bestowed up-
on them, how many would be truly efficient to
wield it in the proper channel? Not that wo-
men have less than men of the natural endow-
ments requsite for forming a clear and irrepre-
hensible judgment; but they have not culti-
vated those faculties. Their attention has been
given to other things; and they are, therefore,
unqualified, the majority of them, to act wisely
in the capacity they so earnestly seek.
	That men abuse the powers they hold, is not
an evidence that women would not use those
powers in an empirical manner if permitted to
use them at all. The fact that the motives of
women are purer, their sentiments more re-
fined and elevated than those of men, should be
sufficient testimony that the right of suffrage
ought to be conceded to them. Not that they
may teach men wisdom by their superior intel-
ligence, but that they may exert their more
beneficient and chaste influences in endeavor-
ing to purify the social atmosphere.


﻿IT is believed that Texas alone, will
within a comparatively few years produce
a larger quantity of the great agricultural
staples than are now produced in all the
other States of the Union.


﻿Study contentment. In these days of in-
ordinate greed and self-indulgence, keep
down the accursed spirit of grasping. What
they don’t have makes thousands wretched.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IMPROVEMENTS in our City and harvesting
in its surroundings are visible everywhere.

	AN ADDRESS “in behalf of the twenty-four
young ladies” and an interesting communica-
tion from St. George, both contributed by
“Flora,” are unavoidably held over, as are also
several other articles and correspondence.

THE LADIES’ Retrenchment Association Ball,
given on the evening of the Twenty-fourth of
July, in the Thirteenth Ward assembly rooms,
was a success. After paying all the incidental
expenses, the Committee found they had a
small surplus of $22.00—which they deposited
in the P. E. Fund.

	WHOSE IS IT?—A young lady wishes to make
enquiry through the “EXPONENT,” whether
the owner of a pretty gray and white, half-
grown kitten, that followed her from some
house on Second East street, early on the
morning of the 25th of July, would like to
ascertain its whereabouts. Information con-
cerning it may be obtained at Bishop L. D.
Young’s, 18th Ward.

 -     THE PAST two weeks has been a period
fraught with care and sorrow to many in differ-
ent parts of the City. Numerous accidents have
occurred, many of them of a very serious
nature, and some fatal. Quite a number of
deaths from sickness are also reported. To the
exceedingly dry and hot weather which has
been experienced may be accorded much of the
cause for ill health which has been and is still
complained of.

	THROUGH THE courtesy of Bishop L. D.
Young, we have had the pleasure of perusing
an interesting letter from Brother Edward
Stevenson, Missionary to the United States,
written at Polk City, Iowa. The writer repre-
sents himself and Elder Porter as enjoying
their Missionary labors, being favorbly received
in that portion of the country. His letter,
directed to Bishop Young, is addressed, within,
to “Elder L. D. Young, and the Home Mission-
ary Staff;” and he cordially greets them all.

	THE ORGANIZATION of a physiological class,
which took place on the afternoon of Thursday,
July 25th, under the supervision of Mrs. Sarah
Kimball; in the 15th Ward F. R. Society hall,
in this City, promises to be an opening for the
pursuit of much valuable information and con-
sequent good results for our ladles. There is
scarcely any, perhaps no other branch of educa-
tion which can be made so practically and in-
dividually useful, especially to women, as the
study of physiology. Yet it has heretofore
been sadly neglected; and even ridiculed by
many unthinking people.

	THOSE NAMES presented to the public as can-
didates for the various offices to be filled at the
coming election, have, without doubt been well
canvassed and considered by those who are de-
sirous of participating in the electoral enact-
ments. Ladies, as well as gentlemen should
understand the importance attached to giving
support to a candidate to any office, by which
the whole or a portion of the community is to
be wronged or benefitted. To be sure we are
voting to sustain good officers, is the only way
wo can know we are not voting to sustain bad
ones.

	ALL INNOCENT attempts at home progress
and self improvement should be generously
sustained and encouraged. Yet, care must be
taken, that charity does not overreach its legit-
imate limits and pronounce acquirements of
thought and manner of gesticulation good when
they are really crude, or excellent while only
[new column]
moderate. The performance of the young folks
at the theatre last evening was, for the most
part very well executed; the haste manifested
throughout the entire presentation of the drama,
being excusable. The duet by the young flut-
ists and the song, “Dolly Varden” were very
happily rendered.


﻿A WOMAN'S VIEWS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There appeared an article in the “Deseret
News” of July 10th, on the seduction of a
Miss Hardy by Wm. L. Davis, with com-
ments by a writer in the “New York
Standard.”  The writer says that Miss
Hardy was as bad as her seducer, and if
taken before a jury of women would be pro-
nounced the worst of the two. I, a woman,
would solemnly decry such an unworthy
statement. I am not a young woman; I
have traveled considerably and found the
nature of woman much the same in all
places where I have been. That woman
desires honorable marriage is true; but se-
duction, never! She never wishes her own
downfall; it would be contrary to all reason.
	Man has asserted his superiority and right
to rule; woman has received this idea, and
believed him most religiously. Is this
wrong? Woman sets up a shrine and
places some man there as the Deity, often
to her own sorrow. That women often fall
is sadly true; and that when they have
fallen, they often become utterly reckless is
also a truth. But are they the ones most to
blame? I think not. I know some men
try to destroy young girls; and that when
one of them succeeds he glories in the de-
struction he has wrought and taunts his
his victim with her folly, and spreads
her darkened name far and wide leaving
her nothing but degredation for the
rest of her miserable life. If she escapes
uncontaminated, what then? She and the
Lord only know of the villain’s damning
purposes!
	Can the writer in the “Standard” deny
these facts? I know he cannot. And if I
read his nature aright, as exhibited in his
article, he is not an innocent man—or he
would never libel his mother’s sex. Surely
my judgment is just, for by his own words
have I judged him.
	If Miss Hardy was placed before a jury of
sensible women what would be their sen-
tence? I do not hesitate to say that the de-
stroyer would have been shot dead instead
of only wounded in the hip; for they would
have sorrowed over the downfall of a sister
and striven to reclaim her. Do not think so
meanly of woman as to believe she does not
feel the shame that is brought on her by
the sins of her sister woman. It is as a stab
with a sharp knife. A man can never know
the pain.
	The “Standard” says there would be a fine
time if all the fathers of the miserable be-
ings that ply their horrible trade in New
York would shoot down their visitors.  I
think it would be a great blessing if all the
pure fathers would follow the example of
Mr. Hardy. Let me tell the “Standard”
that one.very fruitful cause of evil in wo-
men is in the evil their fathers have com-
mitted before them. You cannot gather
good fruit from a corrupt tree.
	GRANTSVILLE.				MARY.


﻿AN INCIDENT.
				—
		"Teach them correct principles,
	And they will govern themselves.”

	We give the following little incident as
it was told to us by a young teacher, con-
sidering the illustration worthy of notice to


many mothers as well as teachers of the
young:
	“While attending to the more advanced
classes, I gave the small children liberty to
play a portion of the time in the yard sur-
rounding the school house. One day a little
girl left her play and came in to tell me a
very pitiful story. Said she:
	“ ‘Neils has found two bright, pretty
shells, where we were playing, and has
given them both to Hannah, and they won’t
let me have one of them; mustn’t they?’
	“ ‘Did you ask Hannah if she would
please to let you have one of them?’ I
asked.
	“ ‘I am going to say that to her now,’
said Maggie; and away she ran, but presently
returned again with a sorrowful face, and
the sad tidings:
	“ ‘She won’t let me have it, Miss ——,’
	“ ‘Well, I’ll tell you what, Maggie,’ I re-
sponded; ‘put your arms around Hannah’s
neck, kiss her, and say, ‘Hannah, won’t
you let your dear little class-mate have one
of those shells?’
	“Maggie scampered away again, but was
back in a moment, this time holding the
shell up triumphantly, and exclaiming.
“See! school-ma’am, isn’t it pretty?”
	“It was pretty and I said so, and the glad
little creature was off to her play again,
smiling and singing as hapily as ever; and
she and Hannah have been the best of
friends ever since.
	“I have inveriably found it the best way
to let the little ones settle their own diffi-
culties, if they can reasonably; and I never
interfere, unless highly necessary,
more than to advise.”
	The same teacher remarks that one day
she praised a bright, clean little face and
smoothly combed head, and told the owner
she wanted a kiss from such a tidy, sweet,
little boy, whenever he came to school in
the morning; and that afterwards she was
never troubled with dirty faces or un-
combed heads; or if one did happen to make
its appearance occasionally, all  the reproof
necessary was for her to say “I have no
kiss for you to-day.” That was better than
scolding.


﻿KIND WORDS.
				—
	The Utah “Pomologist" says, in the last
number to hand:
	THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.—No’s 1 and
2 are before us, and we give it a hearty
welcome. Its editorials are plain, sound and
logical, and its selections pithy, newsy and
well chosen. The character, object and aim
of the EXPONENT is widely different from
that of the political, strong-minded wo-
man’s rights journals of the day. Every
family in Utah should give it support. Long
may it wave, an exponent of the sentiments
and feelings of the many good women of
Utah.	
	And the Council Bluffs “Record and
Farmer” has this in regard to our little
journal:
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.—The above is the
title of a new semi-monthly publication, in
octavo form, now being published at Salt
Lake City, Utah, by ladies of Mormon faith,
in that Territory, who, in their Prospectus
for the paper, say: “It is better to repre-
sent ourselves than to be misrepresented by
others.” And it is to this end they have
begun the publication of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, a journal neat in typographical
appearance and replete with reading matter
of interest. Success to the enterprize of the
ladies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ABOUT WOMEN.
				   —
	A Georgia lady has woven a balmoral out
of the hair of a rabbit 
	DOUGLASS Jerrold said; “Eve ate the
apple that she might indulge in dress”.
	MRS. DR. Tarr takes the place of her hus-
band, recently deceased, as editor of the
Denton (Md.) “Journal.”
	A BUFFALO woman has raised  $2,500
worth of strawberries, this year, from two
acres of ground.
	MRS. Tupper of Des Moines has been
made professor of apiarian science in the
Iowa Agricultural College.
	A YOUNG lady in Ohio, Maggie Reid by
name, has distinguished herself as a model
farmer.  There is some sense in that.
	IN Indiana women plow, plant, hoe and
harvest, preach and chop their own wood.
What do the men busy themselves with?
	THE Michigan State Woman Suffrage
Association has raised six hundred dollars,
and its Secretary, Mrs. M. Victor, is in the
field as a lecturer.
	MISS Foley, an American sculptor at Rome
has been about the most successful artist in
the Holy City, during the past season. Most
of her work has gone to England.
	A TENNESSEE girl broke an arm on the
eve of her wedding day, but pluckily went 
through the ceremony with her arm in a
sling at the appointed hour.
	MISS Eliza Hete, of Cumberland, Md., 23
years of age, who lost the power of speech
five years since by the effects of a cold, and
had tried the best medical skill in vain,
suddenly found her voice restored Sunday
while humming a hymn tune sung by the
choir at the service.
	MRS. Somerville, the well-known author-
ess of the “Connection of Physical Sciences.”
now in her ninety-second year, was present
and saw the late eruption of Vesuvius.
	A CALIFORNIA paper reports that a hotel
chamber-maid laid aside her broom a few
days ago, and calling for a settlement, told
her employer she had been dabbling in
stocks for a year or more, and had something
more than $200,000 as the result.
	A GENTLEMAN, recently married in
Chicago, presented his bride at the wedding
with the original transcript of one of the
first dispatches ever sent over the first tele-
graph line, from Baltimore to Washington.
It was the announcement to the lady’s
grandmother of her birth, and read, “Only
a girl.”
	THE annual commencement of Wesleyan
Female College, Wilmington, took place on
June 20. Nine young ladies were gradu-
ated, among whom only Miss Pickles, Miss
Huntzinger, and Miss Housten took the full
collegiate course. The Baccalaureate, by
President Wilson, was a frank and honest
production, and very much in keeping with
the circumstances. The degree of A. M.
was conferred in course upon Miss Walters,
of Media, and Miss Galliner, of Philadel-
phia.
	THE Philadelphia Board of Education
have lately had under consideration a mo-
tion to strike out of their by-laws the rule that,
“no female teacher shall be elected to the
position of principal to a male grammar
school.” It was argued that a woman who
had the learning, strength and capacity to
teach, is as capable of filling this position as
a man, and that this is proved by the fact that
they do fill satisfactorily most, if not all the
subordinate places as teachers and assistant
teachers.


FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
				—
	Truth needs no flower of speech. 
	True dignity never descends to a mean
action.
	Sensitive hearts may suffer most, but the
wisest are the happiest.
	Kind words are like delicious perfumes;
generous actions like a rich and wholesome
repast.
	As iron is most strongly united by the
fiercest flame, so the firmest friendship is
often formed in mutual adversity.
	Make your friends well pleased with
themselves, and you need have no fears but
they will feel kindly toward you.
	Politeness never calls for a sacrifice of a
single principle of truth, sincerity or honor;
but grows out of the purest benevolence.
	A tried and proved character for truth,
honor and honesty, is the best capital in the
long run, and gives the largest interest.
	Professions of propriety may win the
flattery of the unwary, but the friendship of
the wise is only gained by the practice of
principles.
	To “make the best of it” is one way of
going through the world; to “make the
worst of it” is another. The latter course
is working hard for poor pay.
	The blossom cannot tell what becomes of
its odor, nor man what becomes of his in-
fluence and examples, as they roll away be-
yond his ken, on their perilous mission.
	“Who noble ends by noble means obtains,
or failing smiles in exile or in chains, like
good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed like
Socrates, that man is GREAT INDEED.”
	The external misfortunes of life, disap-
pointments, poverty and sickness, are light
in comparison to those inward distresses of
mind occasioned by folly, passion and
guilt.
	When upon rational and sober enquiry
we have established our principles, let us
not suffer them to be shaken by the scoffs
of the licentious or the cavils of the scepti-
cal.
	Memory presides over the past, action
over the present. The first is a rich temple
hung with glorious trophies, and lined with
tombs; the other should have no shrine but
duty.
	Recreation is to the mind what whetting is
to the scythe—it sharpens the edge, which
would otherwise grow dull and blunt; but
constant whetting wears the edge entirely
away.
	To tell your own secrets is generally folly,
but the folly is without guilt; to communi-
cate those with which we are entrusted is
always treachery, for the most part com-
bined with folly.
The only way to meet affliction is to pass
through it solemnly, slowly, with humanity
and faith, as the Israelites passed through
the sea. Then its very waves of misery
will divide, and become to us a wall on the
right side and on the left, until the gulf
narrows before our eyes, and we land safe
on the opposite shore.
	Flowers are the delight of childhood and
a pleasure in old age. They typify all that
is beautiful in sentiment, and the language
they express is emblematical of the tenderest
thoughts and feelings of men. Romance and
poetry are blended with their history. How
many a faded violet there has been and is
now, yellow and discolored with age, whose
withered leaves tell the story of a human
heart more eloquently than human language
can express!


HOW TO GET AN ORCHARD.
			 	     —
	After selecting the ground for an orchard;
go to work and dig and haul the stone and
stumps from it. Plough deep and level the
land off, and you are ready for your fence.
Put on a good, substantial fence, that will
not admit any creatures only by the way of
the gate or bars, and always keep the fence
in good repair, and suffer no cattle to enter
the enclosure, only for the purpose of labor.
This fence built you will plough your ground
again, and harrow and work in manure to
your liking. Sow your ground and seed
down the same. Pick up all the stones and
sticks that lie on top of the ground, and
take them away so that it will leave a
smooth surface.
	Select the best trees you can find; those
that are young, straight and sound. When
you take them up be careful and do not
break any of the roots, for they have none
to part with. When set they want to be so
near each other that they will shade the
ground well. When it is necessary to cut
limbs, cut them when small. Let the lower
limbs be so high from the ground that a tall
man can pass under them and not hit his
beaver. When you prune, be careful and
let no two limbs in the top chafe each other;
cut off one of the two.
	Now for the management of the ground.
You must keep all ploughs and hogs’ snouts
out of the surface of the ground of your
orchard. I know most every one says (and
practices) ploughing, sowing, mowing, and
hauling crops out of their orchard, but I say
it is a bad practice. Let the crop of grass go
back into the ground every year, and that
will keep the ground mellow and rich, and
will protect the roots of the trees from the
droughts of the season and the cold chills of
the fall and spring, and also help to keep
them warm, rugged, and healthy. By so
doing, they will bear well and live long.
You want your ground in a condition that
will bear thirty or forty hundreds to the acre.
[?—Ed.]	Just before you gather your ap-
ples, you can cut the grass down and spread
it, or you can roll it down, just as you please,
so that it will be smooth to pick up your ap-
ples. If you think more nutriment to the
trees is wanted, you can haul and spread
manure on the ground, but do not allow the
surface of your orchard soil to be broken, or
any crops to be taken from it.
	If you should want a wash for your trees
at any time, first scrape the trunks, and
then put on fish oil. This is the best wash
that can be found.
	Our orchards are all dying out, and what
is the cause? It is owing to their treat-
ment, as I have before said; ploughing up
and cutting off the roots, exposing them to
sudden hard droughts and severe frosts, and
robbing them of nutriment which tends to
impoverish and disorder them, and brings
on decay and short life. Feed and clothe
the trees well, and keep them warm, and
you will do this by not breaking the surface
of the soil or taking the foliage away.—
"Maine Famer."


GOOD ADVICE.—Don’t be discouraged if
occasionally you slip down by the way, and
others tread on you a little. In other words,
don’t let a failure or two dishearten you; ac-
cidents will happen, miscalculations will
sometimes be made, things will turn out
different to our expectations, and we may
be sufferers. It is worth while to remember
that fortune is like the skies of April, some-
times cloudy, and sometimes clear and
favorable.


﻿Olive Logan’s new lecture for the coming
season is on “Successful People.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LITTLE MARY'S WISH.
					—
"I have seen the first robin of spring, mother dear, 
	And have heard the brown darling sing,
You said, ‘Hear it and wish, and ’twill surely come
	true;'
	So I've wished such a beautiful thing!

I thought I would like to ask something for you;
	But I couldn’t think what there could be
That you’d want while you had all these beautiful
	things—
	Besides, you have papa and me!

So I wished for a ladder; so long that ’twould stand
	One end by our own cottage door,
And the other go up past the moon and the stars,
	And lean against Heaven’s white floor.

Then I’d get you to put on my pretty white dress,
	With my sash and my darling new shoes,
And I’d find some white roses to take up to God—
	The most beautiful ones I should choose.

And you and dear papa would sit on the ground
	And kiss me and tell me 'Good bye;'
Then I'd go up the ladder far out of your sight,
	Till I came to the door in the sky!

I wonder if they keep the door fastened tight?
	If but one little crack I could see,
I would whisper, ‘Please, Father, let Mary come in,
	She’s as tired as she can be!’

And then, when the angels had opened the door,
	He would say, ‘Bring the little child here,’ 
But He’d speak so softly I’d not be afraid;
	And He’d smile just like you, mother dear!

He would put his kind arms round your dear little girl,
	And I’d ask him to send down for you,
And papa, and cousin, and all that I love—
	O dear! don’t you wish ’twould come true?"

The next spring time, when the robins came home,
	They sang over grass and flowers
That grew where the foot of the ladder stood,
	Whose top reached the heavenly bowers.

And the parents had dressed the pale little child
	For the flight to the summer land,
In a fair white robe with one snow-white rose
	Folded tight in her pulseless hand.


﻿EXAMPLES FOR CHILDREN.
			    —
	The chief care of women, especially
those belonging to the Church of
Jesus Christ, should be, that their
children are properly taught. They
should realize, too, that the examples
which they set for them are most likely to
mark their steps through life. Yet how
many of us, often forget this all important
subject, instead of keeping it constantly in
view, as a safeguard against anger, fretful-
ness, jealousy and envy, and many other
evils that might be mentioned.
	A few years ago, I one night dreamed of
being at church and hearing President
Young chide the Sisters concerning their
clothing, and I looked at the sleeve of my
dress; it was white as snow; for which I felt
a deep sense of satisfaction and gratitude.
My eye wandered downward to the bottom
of my skirt, and I saw two rows of black
trimming there, which annoyed and per-
plexed me. How could I get that ugly
trimming off? If I ripped it off the stain
and stitches would look even worse than the
trimming. With the mortification and
anxiety caused by these reflections, I awoke.
“Well,” I said to myself, “I have been
fretting and worrying over nothing; and by
making myself cheerless and disagreeable—
which is the black trimming—I have dis-
quieted my home, and cast a gloom over
the pure minds of my dear, sweet children;
which bad example will leave a hateful stain
that must be carefully erased in the right
way, or it will grow upon my children,
making them even more irritable and un-
loveable than I have been.” We cannot
take too much pains, mothers, in seeking to
live near the Lord and to cherish a peaceful
and loving spirit, that we may impart the
same to our offsprings, both before and after 
their birth.						NORA.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	BALTA is a Russian city of 15,000 inhab-
itants, where, until recently, not a single
school was in existence.
	A TERRE Haute, Ind., professional sheep-
shearer says that he has not seen such fine
fleeces in the last fifteen years as this year’s
clip shows.
	THE managers of the New York and Erie
railroad have issued an order forbidding the
sale of spirituous liquors at the restaurants
along the road.
	AN English lady in the city of Birming-
ham has been made to pay a fine of L20 for
giving an undeserved “recommendation”
to a discharged domestic.
	THE model cheese factory of Utica made
last season 211,500 lbs.,. of cheese, which
sold for $21,776.81. The business will be
largely increased another season.
	THE Lincoln “Statesman” says: A care-
ful canvass of the political status of the
Lunatic Asylum taken yesterday gives the
following result: Grant, 39; G. F. Train,
4; Greeley, 1. Strickland is their unanimous
choice for Congress.
	A NEW cave in Schoharie County has re-
cently been explored for a mile. It has
statacutes, statagmites and all the rest of
those fellows. Near the centre is a dome
about a hundred feet high.
	IT is estimated that there are 400 saloons
and groceries in San Francisco, which dis-
pense annually 20,000 barrels of lager, 500,-
000 gallons of wine, and 2,000,000 gallons of
the more stimulating fluids, the total value
of which is $10,000,000.
	THE industrial and commercial growth of
Italy during the past few years has been re-
markable. Genoa alone, with a population
of only 150,000, has now twenty-four great
banking houses, with a capital of 162,900,-
000 francs; twenty corporations, with a capi-
tal of 42,328 francs, and forty-five insurance
companies.
	THE great pyramid weighs 12,760,000,-
000 tons, if anybody wants to know. Ac-
cording to Herodotus, it took the labor of
100,000	men twenty years to build it. To
show the mechanical value of modern im-
provements Dr. Lardner affirms that 480 tons
of coal, with an engine and hoisting ma-
chine, would have raised every stone to its
position.
	THE total wool product of the world for
1871 has been given at 1,121,519,000 pounds.
The largest contributing countries were as
follows: United States, 177,000,000 pounds;
England, 160,000,000 pounds; Australia,
152,000,000 pounds; La Plata, 138,000,000
pounds. These four countries furnish 627,-
000,000 pounds, or over 50 per cent. of the
total product.
	THE entire area of Manhattan Island is
14,500 acres. Taking out 1,800 acres set
aside for public parks, and 1,638 acres left
for streets and boulevards, and we have 11,-
062 acres left for building purposes. Of
these 11,062 acres, 7,253 acres are now occu-
pied by 101,000 houses, which leaves only
3,809 acres to be occupied! These 3,809
acres, at twenty building lots to the acre,
would make 76,180 more building sites on
the island. The last census gives our popu-
lation at 942,992. If we increase during the
next twenty years as fast as we have for the
last twenty years, our population will have
reached 1,600,000, or 100,000 more than
enough to cover every inch of ground from
the Battery to Harlem River.—“New York
paper."


FARMERS’ BOYS.
			    —
	There is a native manliness and indepen- 
dent nobility about farmers’ boys that is 
rarely ever witnessed in those who grow up
in cities. The city boy may be more pol-
ished, and perhaps a little quicker with his
mother tongue, but sound him and you will
find that he has not the depth of mind 
or the manliness of character that are gener-
ally possessed by the hardy country boy. 
The latter is nature’s child, he is strong, 
fearless and independent, his faculties are 
healthy and active, and he readily masters 
the lessons that are spread out so abundantly 
around them. He studies the works and
beauties of nature, and being unhampered by
the rules of conventionality, he seeks the
natural course of things he does not under-
stand, depending upon himself for the. solu-
tion of his most difficult problems; thus he
becomes self-reliant, common-sense and
practical, and when he goes out into the
world he deals with men on those princi-
ples. He understands human nature, too,
as he has learned it from his own disposi- 
tion and his keen observation of the con- 
duct of other people, and, his common-sense 
telling him that human nature is and al-
ways has been the same, he knows, exactly
how to approach men when he wishes to
gain his purpose.	
	The greatest men of every calling and all 
ages have been farmers’ sons, and they will
be until the end of time; and the secret of 
their success is their self-reliance, united 
with industrious, temperate habits. They 
have neither the time nor the means to study
the sciences and fine arts.
	There is still a brighter future for farm- 
ers’ boys. The great improvements that 
have been made in farming implements do 
away with a large portion of the heavy and 
disagreeable labor that formerly could not
be avoided, and enable one man to do as 
much work as two or three could in earlier
periods, so that now farmers have more time
to read and improve their minds and be- 
come familiar with events that are transpir- 
ing in the world. The great increase in books
and periodicals and the low prices at which 
they are offered furnish additional facilities
for obtaining knowledge, and if farmers take
advantage of them as they should, we will 
soon find our most polished gentlemen and 
cultivated scholars among the youth of the 
country.—“St. Joseph Reflector.”


DURING HIS short stay in Paris the Prince 
of Wales took occasion to pay a visit to Mrs. 
Johnson, of Baltimore, formerly Miss Har-
riet Lane, who was staying for some weeks
at the Hotel Westminster in that city. The 
compliment was not only consistent with a
truly royal courtesy, but was merited by the 
recipient, whose claim upon the recognition 
of the representative of the British throne
was well established during the years that
she presided over the White House, at 
Washington, and at the residence of the
American Minister in London. As niece
of the bachelor President, she did the
honors of the White House with a delicate
courtesy and a gentle dignity that gained
the respect as well as the admiration of state
visitors from abroad, equally with that of
the people. It was a true Republican Court
that Miss Lane established, over which she
ruled without pretensious display or foolish
extravagance, but with an elegant grace
that gave an easy supremacy. It was she
who welcomed and entertained the Prince
of Wales on his visit to America, and we
can easily believe that the return call of the
Prince in Paris was prompted as much by
inclination as by royal courtesy.


WOMAN’S’ EXPONENT.


﻿ANECDOTE OF SEWARD.
				   —
	Not long ago a gentleman was telling me
a Senatorial anecdote of, and dating back to,
the ante-bellum days. Mr. Seward had made
a speech—something about the telegraph—
when Mr. Toombs, of Georgia, rose to reply,
and made a speech of personal abuse of
Seward. He wrought himself up into a rage
and lashed about in the most aggressive
manner. He finished and took his seat. As
Mr. Seward rose from his chair every eye
was bent upon him with the greatest anxi-
ety. With calm, measured step, he walked
towards Mr. Toombs. It was noticed that
his right hand was underneath the rear
pocket of his coat. There was apprehension
that he was concealing a pistol, and Mr.
Toombs' friends crowded around him. When
Mr. Seward reached him, he drew out his
hand, and opening his snuff-box, politely in-
vited his adversary to take a pinch of snuff.
"My God!" said Mr. Toombs, "Mr. Seward,
have you no feelings?" "Take a pinch of
snuff; it will soothe your agitation." He
then returned to his seat without any allu-
sion to Mr. Toombs or his speech, made an
able argument in favor of his measure,
which carried. Coolness and self-possession
will always win the victory over hot temper
and passionate invective. —"Washington
letter."


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H.B. CLAWSON, Sup't

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.
			Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
						In the World.
	Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
	Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery, and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES, 
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
	Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. 	Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or others parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. 	Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills.	Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J.E. JOHNSON,
						  St. George, Utah.
[new column]
		   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest in mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and 
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the public-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings; 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,  $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
