VOL. I.  	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1872	NO. 9.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.

	GEORGE SAND, the celebrated French
authoress, advocates the organization of fe-
male free-masonry in France; and she is
really serious in the proposition.
	PENNSYLVANIA, INDIANA, Iowa and
Nebraska hold State elections on the 8th
inst., and that day is expected to decide the
election, in November, for President.
	A LADY refused to go onboard the steam-
er “Metis,” the night that ill-fated vessel
sailed, although her luggage was on board;
and now she thanks Providence for her es-
cape.
	THE LIBERAL Democratic ratification
meeting in New York, on the 12th ult.,
was attended by over forty thousand people.
The fact shows the interest taken in the
present campaign.
	PRUSSIA HAVING conquered France has
now commenced to wage war against Ro-
man Catholicism in Germany. This contest
is likely to be a longer one than the other,
and the result will not be so financially re-
munerative as was the war with France.
	DISCARDING THE side-saddle in riding on
horseback is gaining votaries among women
in different parts of the country, and is said
to be the fashion in Wisconsin. We are not
informed as to what is the change in the
style of dress which precedes this change
in the style of riding in that State,
	A NEWSVENDER in Berlin was fined
twenty thalers recently for selling a copy of
“Woodhull and Claflin’s Weekly.” The
Prussian authorities are not inclined to
countenance the discussion of free-love the-
ories in the style in which Mrs. Blood and
colonel Tennie C. have been accustomed to
create sensations in New York.
	THE SENSIBLE fathers are not all dead.
In Chicago recently a young lady, disregard-
ing the adventitious aids of money and posi-
tion in her lover, married her father’s
coachman. The father, instead of discard-
ing his child and condemning her to misery,
seeing that the young man “had something
in him,” quietly set him up in the livery
business, and the twain are happy.
	FIFTEEN MILLIONS and a half of dollars,
in gold, is the award made to the United
States by the Geneva board of arbitrators;
payable by Britain in Washington in one
year. The amount claimed at first, includ-
ing direct and indirect damages, was some-
where near two thousand millions. This is
considerable of a difference, and it is al-
leged the English have some claims yet to
present for adjudication.
	THE LONG roll of political conventions is
drawing to a close, but stump speaking is
being prosecuted with vigor. Bronchial
affections disappear before the power of
party and monetary inducement, and the
speakers ring out in excited tones denunci-
ations of their opponents and praises of
their party, to win votes from the multi-
tude, while in their hearts dispising and
disbelieving much that they say and sol-
emnly assert as the truth. This is manhood,
as politicians understand it! Could woman
degrade the “science” much? She certainly
might elevate and purify it.
	PERE HYACINTH has been buried. He
still lives, though—in the flesh; but his for-
mer Dominican brethren, after the custom
of their order, viewing his defection or
apostacy as a death, performed the funeral
service for him on the 5th ult. It was
rather singular that he should have married
a few days after, evidently the one event
treading upon the heels of the other.
	FROM THE promises and pledges being
made by prominent Republicans, should
President Grant be re-elected that party
will be placed under obligations to confer
the suffrage upon women. If they do so,
it will likely perpetuate the power of the
party over another Presidential election, at
least, for gratitude will secure them many
votes even from those who would not other-
wise affiliate with the party.
	WE KEEP noting the peculiar ways in
which "piety" develops itself. The latest
illustration is that of a young man in El-
dora, Iowa, who stole a horse some little
time ago, and sold the animal for two bibles
and ten dollars. Of course it was the good
book he was so anxious to obtain; and he
had probably seen some pious deacon rob
the "poor's box" of its Sunday collection,
and viewed the act as a worthy example to
be patterned after. Preaching dread of an
eternal fiery lake, instead of teaching cor-
rect principle, has a tendency to make men
infidels, dishonorable, and wicked.
	RECENTLY THE face has come to light
that the Chinese are ahead of either Eng-
lish or Americans in adulterating tea; and
it is questionable if the pure article at all
finds its way to this market. People talk
of a "cup of good tea!" But if they knew
the stuff with which it is adulterated, an-
other and very different adjective would
qualify the shrub so much in use as a bev-
erage. If people would buy their poisons
separate they could mix them to suit their
own tastes, and perhaps save some of the
money of which John Chinaman now robs
the "barbarians" who shorten their lives and
destroy their nervous systems by drinking
his adulterated tea.
	MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the "New
North-West," Portland, Oregon, in an edi-
torial article in which she treats of Presi-
dent Grant having "reformed from a vicious
life," gets off the following: "Since the
above was written, General Grant has re-
formed from another bad habit of which he
last March was guilty, the pernicious one of
ignoring or snubbing the taxed, misrepre-
sented and protesting half of his people.
Therefore, we say all honor to him. And
upon the coarse, bigoted, narrow-minded
old dotard who cannot get the top of his
glistening pate above the filthy pool of sex-
ual politics, but who stands ready to remove
from places of emolument and trust the
hundreds of struggling women whom Gen-
eral Grant has given employment, that they
may thereby elevate themselves from the
necessity of bodily immolation upon the
altar of lust for bread, the women of Amer-
ica with one accord are crying 'anathema.'"
The language in which Greeley is here
referred to can hardly be called classical,
and the principal comment demanded by it
is, that it is at once coarse and untrue.
	MORE INDIAN delegations have been vis-
iting their "Great Father" at Washington,
making the usual demands for guns and
ammunition, provisions, and a suspension
of railway building. There is great reason
to believe that these aborigines, from con-
tact with dishonest and swindling agents,
have come to imagine that the United
States government is very rich and very
simple, allowing itself to be robbed in the
easiet manner imaginable, by the agents it
employs, and therefore fair game for the In-
dians to fleece, if the opportunity offers.
The entire Indian policy of the country
needs remodeling, by the employment of
honest men as agents and superintendents;
that is, if honest men can be found willing
to accept such offices.
	THE FIRST convention representing any
of the great political parties of the country,
to squarely and fairly take up the subject
of Woman's rights, was the Liberal Repub-
lican convention of Massachusetts, which
wound up its proceedings by explicitly de-
claring in favor of woman's right to vote,
right to fight, and right to do several other
things now denied to the sex. Charles
Sumner was the choice of the same conven-
tion for Governor of Massachusetts. The
right to vote can be exercised by all women
when they receive it; but Colonel Tennie
C. Claflin is at liberty to embody in her own
person all the right to fight which might
otherwise suffice for at least ten thousand.
The right claimed by Julia Ward Howe is
better—the right to aid in securing peace
to mankind.
	A SAD romance of real life, and accidental
death, by drowning, is related in the "Bel-
fast Morning News," as having occurred a
few weeks since, in the Thames,off Woolwich.
Eight persons had started in a lighterman's
skiff, for a run down the river, in buoyant
spirits. When near Belvidere, the river
became rough and the boat went down stern
foremost, throwing its occupants out, five
of whom were drowned, and three were
found clinging to the boat. The hero and
heroine, Mr. Whyman and Miss Hughes,
an estimable young couple, who, it appears,
were engaged to be married, were not dis-
covered until five days afterward, when
their bodies were found together. Thus,
we live to-day, but know not the hour of
death!
	WE CLIP the following from "Appleton's
Journal" for September 28: "The relatives of
the Prussian Lieutenant von Hafften, who
eloped with two young girls (sisters) from
Berlin, and who is now said to be with
them at Salt Lake city, have published a 
card, in which they assert that he is insane
on the subject of free-love, and that he has
been misled by the pernicious teachings of
a Mormon missionary named Hansen."
Now, as free-love is not taught, nor be-
lieved, in Salt Lake city, and as no von
Hafften has arrived here with or without
two sisters with whom he eloped; and as
no Mormon missionary has been teaching
or preaching in Berlin for some years, the
reliability of the foregoing extract will not
commend itself  to the reading public. In
fact it bears the appearance of a manufac-
tured canard.


66					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
	INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO, ILLS.
			BY ELIZA. R. SNOW.
	[Reprinted from No. 1 of the EXPONENT]
	According to authentic testimony, an or-
ganization, of which the present Female
Relief Society is a fac-simile, has always ex-
isted when the Church of Jesus Christ has
been fully organized. “Elect lady,” as it
occurs in the New Testament, has direct
reference to the same—alluding to one who
presided over this Institution. See 2d
Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in
the present dispensation, was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, assisted by other promi-
nent Elders. His apology for deferring the
organization till that period, was the great
pressure of duties, labors and responsibili-
ties, which devolved upon him. By his
suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the “Minutes
of the Organization,” would be interesting,
—they are too lengthy for insertion in full:
			 "Nauvoo Lodge Room,
					March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary.
	Meeting commenced by singing ‘The
spirit of God like a fire is burning,’ etc.
Prayer by Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowl-
edge them in full fellowship and admit
them to the privileges of the Institution
about to be formed. Vote unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the objects of the Society; that
the Society of sisters might provoke the
brethren to good works, in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects
of charity, etc., to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of the
female community, and save the Elders
the trouble of rebuking, etc. He proposed
that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding
officer choose two counsellors; that he would
ordain them, and let them preside over the
Society, just as the Presidency preside over
the Church; and if they need his instruc-
tion—ask him—he will give it from time to
time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitu-
tion. If any officers are wanted to carry
out the designs of the Institution, let them
be appointed and set apart, as Deacons,
Teachers, etc., are among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be
precedents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of elect-
ing a Presidency to continue in office dur-
ing good behavior, or so long as they shall
fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded
by Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith
be chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for Counsellors.”
	After which the ceremony of ordination
was performed: “When Prest. Smith re-
[next column]
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what  order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by saying,
'Do not injure the character of any one; if
members of the Society shall conduct im-
properly, deal with them, and keep all your
doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and
her counsellors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest.
J. Smith, that we go into an investigation
respecting what this Society shall be called;
which was carried unanimously.”
	(The discussion which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	“By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secre-
tary, and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs.
Holmes) Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this
Society organized with President and Coun-
sellors, etc., according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this Society must be free from
censure, and received by vote.’
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he is much gratified in seeing a
meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart
rejoices when he sees the most distin-
guished characters stepping forth in a cause
which is calculated to bring into exercise
every virtue, and give scope to the benevo-
lent feelings of the female heart; he re-
joices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer
is, that the blessings of God and the peace
of Heaven may rest down on this Institu-
tion, henceforth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ etc.,
the meeting adjourned for one week. Dis-
missed by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present
gave a liberal donation to commence the
funds of the Institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap and lying on an open Bible in the
room where, and at the time when, the So-
ciety was organized; which have been care-
fully preserved and transcribed as an appro-
priate frontis-piece to the F. R. S. Book of
Records:
	“O Lord, he[-]p our widows and fatherle[-] s chil-
dren! So mete it be Amen. With the SWORD
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend thou them.
So mete it be Amen"
	(to be continued.)


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
St. George, Sept. 11, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
I transmit to you a report of our organi-
zation, which was established August 24th,
1868, by President Erastus Snow, assisted
by Bishops Robert Gardner and Henry Ey-
ring, and Elders William Fawcett, William
H. Branch, Franklin B. Woolley and James
G. Bleak; and consisted of twenty-five
members, with Anna L. Ivins, as President;
Emily C. Branch and Hannah E. Crosby,
Counsellors; Augusta B. Jackson, Secretary;
and Caroline A. Jackson, Treasurer.
During the past four years the people
visited by the teachers of the Society have
contributed liberally to Its fund, and we
have always had means on hand to supply
every call for aid.
In response to the call of President Young
for help to gather the poor from foreign
lands, we collected and forwarded one hun-
[new column]
dred dollars; and are still receiving money
for the same purpose. Our disbursements
during the time since the Society was or-
ganized have been upwards of two hundred
dollars, and we have on hand six hundred
dollars in goods and capital stock in the
R. V. M. Company, and Co-operative store
of St. George. Our present roll counts one
hundred and fifty members; with Anna L.
Ivins as President; Hannah E. Crosby as
first, and Minerva Snow as second Counsel-
lor; Hannah G. Perkins, President of Teach-
ers; M. C. McArthur, Treasurer; and
			CAROLINE A. JACKSON,
						Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief report of the fourth
annual meeting of the F. R. Society of
Santaquin, held Sept. 5th, when we were
favored with the presence of Sisters Simons
and Weach, Presidents of Payson and New-
town Societies, whose remarks were excel-
lent and very encouraging. There was ex-
hibited upon the occasion five handsome
quilts, one of which, it was said, contained
1,932 pieces. This speaks well for the pa-
tience, Industry and economy of the sisters.
Several of the sisters spoke disapprovingly
of “slang” talk, and a happy feeling per-
vaded the meeting; many of the infirm
were administered to at the close, by the
Elders. The Society is in a prosperous con-
dition; a good feeling prevails in our
midst; and all seem willing to aid the old,
infirm and destitute. Santaquin being a
small place, our financial report is also small.
Our income since May 31, 1868, up to May
31, 1872, was $505.35; disbursements to the
infirm and needy, $288;03; our shares in
the Provo Woolen Factory and shares in the
Co-operative store are included in the prop-
erty on hand. We like your paper much,
and wish it great success.
	MRS. E. J. STICKNEY, President;
	MRS. J. D. WILSON, Secretary;
	MRS. E. F. TRITGEN, Treasurer.

	The F. R. Society of Brinton’s Ward,
Big Cottonwood, held a meeting on the af-
ternoon of Wednesday, September 18th,
which was attended by Miss E. R. Snow
and others from Salt Lake city, who took
active part in the proceedings. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet Brinton, expressed
much satisfaction at the agreeable surprise
which sister Snow’s visit occasioned, as it
was unexpected; and she earnestly thanked
the Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, for
inviting and bringing the sisters from the
city.
	During her remarks Miss Snow said that
"It is not required of women who are seek-
ing to live their religion, gain intelligence
and assist in establishing pure and correct
principles, to neglect their personal appear-
ance; but to endeavor to elevate and beau-
tify themselves in every way, and not
disfigure their forms and make themselves
appear ridiculous by following after the
vain, senseless fashions of the world.” She
asked what was more becoming and beauti-
fying to an intellectual and refined lady
than a plain, neat dress? The tawdery friv-
olities of fashion may do for those devoid
of taste and judgment, but they ill become
women of sound thought and reason. We
should seek to increase our fund of knowl-
edge and to polish the mind. There is
more sense and consistency in that than in
covering the body with finery, and seeking
by that means to appear polished and at-
tractive. We should study our own natures,
our own organizations, and learn to under-
stand the laws of life and health. We should


be energetic and ambitious in regard to
these things, and seek to promulgate the
importance which attaches to them. She
said she desired to see a greater interest
manifested by her sisters, in the physiolo-
gical classes that were being formed; and
considered it a matter of great importance
and one that should receive much attention
from the daughters of Zion. It would be
an inestimable help to mothers in rearing
their children to have an acquaintance with
the laws which combine and govern the
different parts of the human system.
	Much credit is due to the Society of sis-
ters of this precinct, for the unwavering
exertions they make in keeping up their
regular meetings; for as the ward is scat-
tered in a great degree, many of its inhab-
itants are situated at an inconvenient dis-
tance from the meeting house; some of
them having to walk three and four miles
for the purpose of attending meeting. They
also exhibit a lively interest in the welfare
of those who are in need of assistance, and
in the cause of truth generally.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A conscientious woman cannot be quite
cheerful and at ease when she finds her du-
ties jarring, and much remaining undone
that ought to be done. It will throw a shade
of anxiety over her countenance, and a se-
cret depression will weigh upon her spirits,
which cannot be removed until her house-
hold matters, can be so arranged that the
duties which she feels belong to her as a
woman, in every department in life, can be
accomplished. When the mind is thus af-
fected, the face, which should be as the
sunlight, becomes clouded and careworn,
imparting by secret social sympathy, a gloom
to the whole circle of home. That the
causes may be as quickly removed as pos-
sible, great pains should be taken by hus-
bands to facilitate the performance of and
alleviate oppressive and still imperious du-
ties.
	A housekeeper will find it a great conve-
nience to have a trunk or deep drawer de-
voted to articles used in sewing and
repairing. Bags for keeping all such things
separate and in order are excellent helps,
one for new and another for old calico; one
for white and another for colored pieces;
one for stocking yarn in skeins and balls,
and one for carpet rags. A box with parti-
tions for all the implements of sewing, and
keeping each article in its own apartment,
saves much time and many steps.
	Another very important arrangement in
a family where there are children is to pro-
vide regular duties for each. One to bring
the wood, another to attend to the poultry,
cow, etc., changing round occasionally to
vary monotony; or, if girls, to dress and
undress a younger child, set the chairs in
order, and when old enough to wash and
wipe dishes. When these duties are shown
to children, it should be required of them
that they be performed in the proper
time and way, as much for the benefit of
the child as for the good it will do in help-
ing to preserve order in the domestic ar-
rangements.
	Much of the health of a family depends
upon the judgment of the mistress of the
house in varying food, and arranging the
dishes for different meals so as to be health-
ful and digestible. In some families it is fried
potatoes, meat, and hot cakes, or bread, in
the morning; soggy, boiled potatoes, and
meat at dinner; with a piece of dry, indi-
gestible pie, and bread and butter, cheese,
and “chipped” beef, with crackers, at night.
Now, nothing can be worse for women and
children, or persons of sedentary habits,
than a diet of this kind. It will do for la-
boring men, or those whose lives are spent
much in the open air, although even they
would be better for the regular introduction
into their diet of some elements which the
stomach is more capable of assimilating.
But for the children who go to school, and
women who stay at home, it is simply mur-
derous, and lays the foundation of the fu-
ture liver complaint and dyspepsia, which
have become the heritage of the American
people.
	Meat breakfasts are totally unnecessary
where dinner is taken in the middle of the
day, excepting for men employed in field or
outdoor labor. Boiled oat-meal, hominy,
or wheaten grits, with milk toast or bread
and-butter, are infinitely better. If fruit,
fresh or stewed, can be added, so much the
better. At dinner, the meat should be
fresh or exceedingly well cooked, the pota-
toes cooked dry and mealy, and some other
vegetable added, in which there is an acid,
or a good deal of juice. Grated horse-rad-
ish is invaluable in the spring, as an adjunct
to roast meat; tomatoes cooked without
thickening are an admirable regulator; beets
well cooked and sliced in vinegar are not
to be despised, and any kind of spring
greens, or salad, is a benefaction. It is a
pity that there is an odor so offensive to
some about onions, for, when young, they fill
a convenient niche before fresh fruit ap-
pears, are pungent, and occasionally very
palatable with bread and butter, and act
as one of the specifics in purifying the
blood.—Ex.


﻿FOR THE GIRLS.
			   —
	There is hardly any bodily blemish which
winning behavior and conversation will not
conceal, and, there is no external attraction
which ill nature and affectation will not de-
form. Much is indicated by voice and
manner; a subdued and gentle tone is ever
the accompaniment of refined feelings and
a cultivated mind. A loud, coarse laugh is
vulgar; but to laugh heartily when anything
is amusing, is not inconsistent with good
breeding, and may be done in a way that
accords with the nicest sense of propriety,
and is much more agreeable than a dull,
cold precision. Contempt and haughtiness
are never wise; arrogance and incivility
show anything but good breeding or gener-
ous sentiments. Giving pain to anyone
should be carefully avoided, and this may
be done by studying your own heart. Cour-
teous and affable behavior is the best to of-
fer, even to the rude and ungrateful. Flirt-
ing or coquetry, is beneath the dignity of
any true lady, and should never be indulged
in. If begun merely for pastime, in an in-
nocent, thoughtless way, it is almost sure
to be carried to excess, and is seldom
checked until feelings and words of a dis-
agreeable nature are the result; and not un-
frequently, where a conscientious and sym-
pathetic heart is concerned, but has not
been properly consulted from the first, un-
happy marriages are occasioned in conse-
quence of this unwise and ungenerous
practice. Though in some cases it is pru-
dent to conceal an opinion, when it costs no
sacrifice of principle, in all circumstances
adhere to the truth; make it a rule never
to give utterance to a falsehood. Contra-
diction and arguments are inadmissible in
social intercourse where friends meet for
pleasant enjoyment. Talk little of yourself
or your own interests, except when business
requires it. Converse of things rather than
persons in general. Always be punctual in
fulfilling engagements.


﻿TIRED MOTHERS.
			  ——
A elbow leans upon your knee,
	Your tired knee, that has so much to bear;
A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly
	From underneath a thatch of tangled hair,
Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch
	Of warm, moist fingers, folding yours so tight;
You do not prize this blessing over much,
	You almost are too tired to pray to-night.

But it is blessedness! A year ago
	I did not see it as I do to-day.
We are so dull and thankless; and too slow
	To catch the sunshine til it slips away.
And lo! it seems surpassing strange to me,
	That while I wore the badge of motherhood,
I did not kiss more oft, and tenderly,
	The little child that brought me only good.

And if, some night when you sit down to rest,
	You miss this elbow from your tired knee;
This restless, curling head from off your breast,
	This lisping tongue that chatters constantly;
If from your own the dimpled hands have slipped,
	And ne'er will nestle in your palm again;
If the white feet into their grave have tripped,
	I could not blame you for your heart-ache then!

I wonder so that mothers ever fret,
	At little children clinging to their gown;
Or that the foot prints, when the days are wet,
	Are ever black enough to make them frown.
If I could find a little muddy boot,
	Or cap or jacket, on my chamber floor;
If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot,
	And hear its patter in my home once more;

If I could mend a broken cart to-day,
	To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky--
There is no woman in God's world could say
	She was more blissfully content than I.
But ah ! the dainty pillow next my own
	Is never rumpled by a shining head;
My singing birdling from its nest is flown :
	The little boy I used to kiss is dead !
				-- The "Aldine" for September.


THE DRESS OF CIVILIZED WOMEN.

	I do declare that I think it would be bet-
ter to die and get out of torment at once
than have to rise every morning for some
forty or fifty years and box one’s body up
in a sort of compressive armor, hang
weights to one’s hips and more weights
upon one’s head—which last are supported
by the roots of the hair; put one’s feet into 
shoes a number too small, and not of the
right shape, and with heels like stilts; and
then set about doing the whole duty of
woman with a cheerful face and a spry air, 
for from fifteen to seventeen mortal hours
out of the twenty-four! That there are so
many women who are not frightened into a
decline at such a prospect, and that they
bravely undertake to do it—nay, more, that
they even dream that under such disadvan-
tages they can work side by side with an
unshackled man, and that they die in try-
ing to do it, certainly says much for their
courage, but very little for their common
sense.
	A man’s dress to a great extent is fash-
ioned for comfort. He has contrivances for
suspending the weight of his clothing from
his shoulders. If the east wind blows he
can turn up his coat collar, button himself
up snugly, slouch his hat over his eyes,
thrust his hands into his pockets and brave
the weather. But imagine a woman re-
moving her hat or bonnet from the angle
at which fashion says she must wear it on
account of the weather, or turning any of
her “fixtures” up to protect her neck and
throat, or buttoning anything that was un-
buttoned before, or sticking her hands into
her pockets! She would be taken for an
improper character out on a mild spree, or
for an escaped inmate of a lunatic asylum,
should she endeavor by any Impromptu ar-
rangement of her habiliments to save her 
health.—“Science of Health.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	The Khedive has twenty-three palaces...
Rome has 230 convents......Santa Barbara
wants a gold note bank......High heels are
going down and spines may go up again......
The Queen of the Belgians rejoices over
the birth of a daughter......The Sutro tun-
nel is in 3,050 feet......Ristori’s daughter,
M’lle. Crisi, is to be married some time in
October......Virginia city, Montana, is full
of prize ring experts......Council Bluff’s
Spiritualists are said to exclude red-haired
people from the circle......The English
Government is considering the project of
purchasing all the railroads in Ireland at
the price of $150,000,000......It is reported
that the Siamese twins are at last divided,
one being for Greeley and the other for
Grant......The San Juan mines are still the
excitement in Colorado.......The Massachu-
setts Republican State convention has given
unequivocal and complete endorsement to
Woman Suffrage.......New Albany and Jef-
fersonville political clubs marched for hours
through a drenching rain, while being
drilled a few evenings ago, without a man
flinching......A grand ball has been given
at the California State prison........The
“Christian Union” thinks the American girl
has an easy life, compared with her
brother’s......Grant papers try to prove that
the present President was not drunk at Shi-
loh; but a journal of a different nature says,
to save his military reputation, they ought
to prove that he was dead drunk the entire
week in which Shiloh was fought......Two
Greeley and Brown flags have been raised
in Shirley village, Massachusetts, the first
anti-Radical flags that ever floated there......
A swarm of bees, In Iowa, stung a horse to
death lately In half an hour........Report
says, Blaine was as poor as a church mouse
when he entered Congress, but is now a
millionaire......Princess Thyra, of Italy, is
said to be the most beautiful woman in Eu-
rope......A Nantucket octogenarian recently
spent an entire evening at the piano, play-
ing waltzes for her fantastic-toed grand-
children......Thirty-one million dollars are
invested in the wine culture of California....
A Branford, Connecticut, girl, who has been
clerk in the post office, recently confessed
the triple crime of robbing the mail, for-
gery and passing a forged check......In
Bethany, Pa., which has always given de-
cided Republican majorities, it is said, not
one vote will be cast for Grant......Five dol-
lar counterfeit gold pieces, bearing the San
Francisco mint mark of 1867, are reported
circulating in Pioche......California fruits in
great abundance, are for sale in all the east-
ern markets......Eleven prisoners are the
present occupants of the Washington
Territory penitentiary......Charlotte Cush-
man opens the Bay State course of lectures
at Boston on the 3rd inst....It is reported
that bands of Gypsies are traveling through
western Massachusetts, stealing children
and robbing orchards and cornfields......A
Coventry workman, in England, has been
sentenced to ten years penal servitude, for
starving his little daughter, four years old;
he has been allowing his family only three
shillins a week for food, while he spent
eighteen in drink........Olive Logan has writ-
ten a play called “A Business Woman,”
which will be presented during the coming
season......A Far Western lady who was not
posted in history, and had forgotten her
geography, asked a friend who was going
to Utah, to bring her a couple of Mormons
for her aquarium......A Connecticut girl
has renounced Christianity, and embraced
Judaism and a Jewish doctor to whom she
was immediately married......Jenny Lind
is reported ill......A Keokuk man took so
much stock in the comet business that he
forgave his enemies, paid his debts and pre-
pared to die......Report says, a daughter of
the late Confederate minister, John Slidell,
will shortly be married to a German Baron...
A curious disease prevails at Barton, Ver-
mont, called by the physicians there
“typhoid dysentery.”.......Charles Whee-
ler Denison, editor of the “Nation-
al Harbinger,” Washington, “regret-
fully, conscientiously and positively asserts
that the ‘Nation’s chief magistrate drinks
too much’”.....The Philadelphia “Press”
says Grant will be elected by a majority of
four electoral votes, (!) but the Chicago
“Times” admits that Greeley may be elect-
ed President......A grand dinner has been
given by the Savage Club, London, in honor
of Stanley......In an Iowa college, the Pro-
fessor of agricultural science is a woman,
Mrs. Tupper......An attempt to organize a
Greeley and Brown club at Hillsboro is re-
ported a failure, not one person putting in
an appearance.....St. Petersburg has a
prominent female lawyer, Madam Krietzoff
......The Navy Department is believed by
some to be the most corrupt branch in the
government......In Europe and the United
States there are 150 manufactories of India
rubber goods, employing five operatives
each, and consuming over ten million
pounds of gum every year......A young lady
who has been lecturing on “Thoughts and
their Chariots,” is requested to discourse
next on “Whims and their Wheelbarrows.”


﻿LADY LAWYERS.

	In the Third District Court of Utah, Chief
Justice J. B. McKean presiding, on Saturday
week, September 21, two ladies—Miss Phoebe
W. Couzins, of St. Louis, and Miss Georgie
Snow, daughter of Judge Z. Snow, Attorney
General of Utah Territory, applied for admis-
sion to the bar of Utah, were admitted, and
were duly sworn in as attorneys-at-law. While
we have no ambition, personally, to become a
practicing lawyer, nor to seek admission to the
bar even without the intention of practicing
the profession of law, we recognize in the appli- 
cation and admission of these ladies a prin-
ciple which is daily receiving wider recogni-
tion and which was, a few years ago, ridiculed
when advocated by enlarged minds that looked
beyond their time—the right of a woman to
earn her living in any honorable career for
which she has capacity. In the practical
working of this principle, as in everything
which aims at securing to woman the exercise
of her full and legitimate rights, Utah has
been markedly in advance of other parts of the
Union; and has been as far in advance of Eng-
land in this direction as England has been and
is in advance of Massachusetts, much as the
latter boasts of its philanthropic, humanitarian
and republican ideas. Among the first places
where women commenced to learn to be prac-
tical printers was here in Utah, and if the at-


tempt failed it was because those who com-
menced to learn the art believed they could
earn more with less labor at other kinds of
work. The propriety of women occupying
desks as book-keepers, and acting as clerks in
stores, so that the men thus employed might
devote their greater physical strength to
heavier labor which had to be done, was urged
years ago from the stand by President Brigham
Young and other leading men in  the commu-
nity. And to-day, on the thousand miles of
telegraph lines owned and worked in Utah, the
Deseret Telegraph Company employ more lady
operators than can be found on the same dis-
tance of wire in any other part of the world.
Ladies, too, at the present time are studying
medicine in this city, with a view to qualify 
themselves for its practice; and in every direc- 
tion in which woman’s talents or powers can 
be made available, there is every encourage- 
ment for their cultivation and development. 
All this is in Utah, and among the “down-
trodden women of Utah,” concerning whom
silly sentimentalists continue to theorize, and
waste unsought and undesired sympathy upon;
women who have every avenue open for them
to secure a living, and a competence if they
possess financial ability; and women who, if	
they become wives in families where plural
marriage exists, do so understandingly, and of
their own free will, and of their own free will
they could dissolve the bonds so accepted if
they felt disposed.
	It was telegraphed east and west that two
ladies had been admitted to the bar of Utah
as practicing lawyers, and the local press has
had considerable to say in regard to it; yet it
might with equal justness and more force have
been telegraphed that here in Utah, decried,
abused and maligned as it has been, women
enjoy more of what is contended for as woman’s
rights than they do in any State in the Federal
Union; and that they appreciate their position
and are seeking to qualify themselves for
spheres of usefulness to which their sisters in
other parts of the country can only yet look in
prospective.


﻿DON’T READ TRASH.
				——
	If there is any one thing extensively prac-
ticed that does not pay, it is the reading of silly,
trashy literature. It is a waste of time; and,
worse than that, it injures the memory, per-
verts the taste and hinders the advancement
and development of the intellectual powers of
the mind. Like vicious companions, worthless
reading steals an influence over young and un-
decided natures. For a time they realize no
evil effects from such sources, except that the
lightness and nonchalance which generally
characterize them are somewhat agreeable.
But they soon become fascinating and almost
irresistible; and engender dislike for anything
of a sounder and more reliable character.
Do not encourage the indulgence of such use-
less pastime. Get good books, and when you
read let it be for some good purpose; and al-
ways seek to become enlightened and not mis-
led by what you read.


WE ARE requested by Mr. Robert L. Camp-
bell, secretary of the Deseret Agricultural and
Manufacturing Society, to say, that where the
President of a Female Relief Society purchases
a life membership in the D. A. & M. Society,
in the name of the Relief Society over which
she presides, it will secure free admission to
the coming Fair for herself, her counselors, and
the treasurer and secretary of her Society. So
also when the head of a family has a life mem-
bership it secures free admission to his family
as well as himself.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
				——
	THE APPROACHING general Conference
promises to be largely attended and more than
ordinarily interesting.
	A BOUNTIFUL harvest has been gathered
throughout the Territory, and the people
should feel proportionately thankful to a kind
Providence.
	THE OFFICE of the EXPONENT will, after the
5th inst., be found on West Temple street, op-
posite the City Market, upstairs in the build-
ing now being erected for the purpose.
	DURING THE past week lists of clubs of sub-
scribers have reached us from different parts of
the Territory, the money accompanying each.
Our friends who continue to work for the in-
creased circulation of the EXPONENT, have our
warmest thanks for their exertions in its be-
half.
	ON THE 3rd inst. the Territorial Fair com-
mences, and on the 6th inst. the Semi-Annual
Conference begins. These will draw a large
number of our friends to the city, any of whom
we shall be pleased to see at the office of the
EXPONENT, on West Temple street, opposite
the City Market.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, organized some
weeks ago in the 15th Ward F. R. Society Hall,
meets now at the Social Hall, twice a week; at
four o’clock p.m., on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Ladies interested In the study of physiology
will find it very advantageous, to connect
themselves with this class.
	ROBBERIES ARE on the increase in Salt Lake
city, with as much boldness as if the villains
were operating in the dead of winter. But
why need they be afraid? The third District
Court is in session, yet the presiding Judge, J.
B. McKean, has failed to grant the grand jury
which the Attorney General of the Territory
moved for, and rogues and criminals going un-
whipt of justice become bold In their villainies.
	IN THE present number of the EXPONENT
we reprint the first part of Miss Eliza R. Snow’s
brief history of the first organization of the
Female Relief Society in Nauvoo. The de-
mand for this sketch, after the first and second
numbers which contained it were exhausted,
has induced us to print a heavy edition of the
present number, with which to supply those
who desire it. Copies of the first eight num-
bers are not on sale at this office, but new sub-
scribers from this date can receive the EXPO-
NENT from the present number until the edition
now printed is all sent out, as we shall print an
equal quantity of copies of each subsequent
issue.


EDUCATE YOURSELF.
				——
	Woman was designed to be something
more than a domestic drudge; and it is not
right for her to confine herself exclusively,
to that monotonous calling, having no
thoughts, no interests, hopes or prospects
above and beyond so humble a sphere. For,
worthy and honorable as are all common
branches of labor, the hands should not alone
be industrious; but the brain should also be
instructed how to work, and allowed to ex-
pand and improve. And that not only in
things connected with the daily routine of
household duties, but in matters of greater,
and even less importance as well. Sensible
people say, that a girl should not be consid-
ered marriageable until she understands
how to make good bread and wash her own
clothes. Exactly. And we would add,
neither should she be imagined capable of
filling the position of a true wife and mother
unless she can, at least read and write un-
[new column]
derstandingly and converse intelligently
upon other topics than those concerning the
barn-yard and kitchen. And if, after mar-
riage, greater pains should be taken to in-
crease her fund of knowledge pertaining to
the proper care and management of a house
and family’s domestic interests, so also
should more attention and time be devoted
to her own moral and intellectual culture.
When a man has finished his labors for the
day, he usually has a little time for reading
or quiet contemplation and rest. It would
be justly thought absurd and cruel to require
of a child or servant, all the time to be
spent in work, with no chance for mental
improvement. But working women have,
somehow, so arranged, or disarranged, their
work that, generally speaking, it is never
done. And if they ever do sit down for a
moment’s rest, or take up a book or paper,
to use a familiar phrase, “there are a dozen
things staring at them, that want to be
done,” and they cannot enjoy the little
time which they feel as though they were
stealing. And thus a wall is often built,
confining woman to the narrow sphere of
domestic duties, in which she becomes self-
ishly wrapped up in her own interests, and
devoid of those tastes and sentiments
which might otherwise aid her in becoming
an agreeable and useful member of society.
Ill health or extreme poverty, may excuse
a woman for being kept much away from
society, and having little chance for mental
improvement. But even these disadvan-
tages would soon disappear, in most cases,
if a proper and wise reformation could be
called into requisition.
	It often occurs that as soon as a young
lady is married, she seems to think there is
no need for her to pursue her studies any
farther. She may have spent years of time
and cost her parents much expense, to ac-
quire an education, which, when it has as-
sisted in gaining her a husband, she has no
further use for. If that was her only motive
in pursuing her youthful studies, the object
was unworthy the labor and means expend-
ed. Rut woman should consider that for
her as well as for man, there is no end, no
stopping point to be found in the acquire-
ment of knowledge. And she should be
industrious and energetic in the pursuit of
useful information of every kind. It is an
excellent thing to know the easiest and
best methods to keep a house in perfect or-
der; how to prepare a meal of victuals
quickly and tastily; take the advantages of
a heavy washing and ironing, or spin your
own stocking yarn and knit it. But all this
does uot make a woman an interesting and
amiable companion, which it is her right
and duty to be, if her ways are awkward,
her language coarse and vulgar; in short,
her mind uncultivated. Yet, to be edu-
cated in these things will make her of
greater use to the world, than merely what
is now generally considered an accomplished
lady: that is, to have a knowledge of music,
be able to speak French or Latin, and dress
fashionably. Combine a consistent portion
of the two, and mix in a little of common
arithmetic and geography, morality, philo-
sophy and sense, and then go on securing
little gems of wisdom here and there,
wherever they are to be found. They will
never cease to exist, and the best educated
persons can do no better than to keep pick-
ing them up and adding to their store.
									G.


VERY large fires are reported to be again
raging in some of the Michigan woods, and
apprehensions are entertained in some quar-
ters of a repetition of the fearful scenes of
last fall.


FACTS AND FIGURES. 
Olympia has 312 school children.
The Memphis Industrial Exposition will
cost $30,000.
Slavery is to be gradually abolished in
Cuba and Porto Rico.
A petrified buffalo, full size, standing
and in the act of eating, has been found
near Spinneyville, Iowa.
California has sent by steamer her first-
cargo of wheat, wine and brandy directly to
England.
The largest water tank on the railroad
has just been completed at Albany; Its ca-
pacity is 75,000 gallons.
A Wayne county dog has this season
“chawed up” seventeen rattlesnakes. “Our”
dog beats that. It has killed five skunks in
as many weeks.
According to the State Geologist of Cali-
fornia, the view from the top of Mt. Diablo
is the finest in the world, not excepting any
of the Alps.
The Italian journals speak of a curious
discovery made at Pompeii—namely, a
glass bottle still full of oil. The liquid is
to be analyzed to ascertain its greater or less
degree of preservation.
Senator Trumbull stated in his speech
at Indianapolis, that there was “money
enough squandered by office-holders under
the Federal Government every year to buy
a house and farm and give $1,000 to every
man in the State of Indiana—and that there
are 400,000 men in that State.”
Italian papers report an increasing agi-
tation among the working classes in the
principal Italian towns. “The condition of
the working class,” says the “Persever-
anza,” “has in the last few years completely
altered. In the first place, the number of
workingmen has increased in an extraordi-
nary degree. The progress of industry, on
which we rightly congratulate ourselves,
has led to the establishment of centres of
labor which formerly had no existence.
Great masses are more easily agitated than
individuals, and it is evident that a strike
can be organized more effectually in a town
where there are a thousand workmen than
where there are a hundred. Wages have
not increased in the same proportion ns the
prices of the necessaries of life, besides
which the demand for labor is in this coun-
try greater than the supply.”
Professor Jurgeson, of Berlin, gives
an interesting account of the transfusion of
blood from persons in good health to one
who had been poisoned, with the most happy
results. He states that on the 9th of De-
cember, a young man was poisoned by tak-
ing a solution of the ignition mass of eight
bundles of matches. On the 11th of Febru-
ary, after causing the excitement of the
activity of the heart by champagne, the
transfusion of 580 cubic centimetres of
wholesome blood, which had just been taken
from three healthy persons, was effected
into the vein of the arm, 500 cubic centi-
metres being taken, of the patient’s own
blood, from an artery, at the same time-
Immediately an improvement in the condi-
tion of the patient took place, and in March
he was able to quit his bed. What a splen-
did thing it would be, were the doctors only
capable of ejecting all the diseased and cor-
rupt blood of individuals and transmitting
that which is healthy and pure; thus mak-
ing sound men and women of all the un-
sound ones. But the query is natural:
Where could they obtain sufficient pure
blood for the purpose?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
Spiritualism is on the increase at Nash-
ville.
	Stanley-Africanus, though not thirty,
is gray haired.
	A Rattlesnake bite was cured lately at
Fayette, Ill., by liberal applications of
mud!
	A Peoria dentist announces that he ex-
tracts teeth with great pains. Most dentists
do.
	Leisure is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	The Edgefield and Kentucky road will
hereafter be known as the Nashville, Chi-
cago and St. Louis railroad.
	Josh Billings says very truly, “You’d bet-
ter not know so much than to know so many
things that ain’t so.”
	A stylish bonnet can be obtained from
Paris for $126. Indulgent husbands will
cut this out to show their wives.
	A little boy in Buffalo bled to death
from the effects of a wound in the leg,
caused by a glass bottle which was thrown
at him by a playmate.
	The peace league of the Hague has ad-
dressed a communication to the Emperors
of Russia, Germany and Austria in favor of
peace in Europe.
	In Switzerland a milkmaid who is a good
singer gets more salary than others, be-
cause under the influence of music cows
“give down” better and give more milk.
	What a glorious world this would be if
all its inhabitants could say, with Shake-
speare’s shepherd: “Sir, l am a true laborer;
earn what I wear; owe no man hate; envy
no man’s happiness; glad of other men’s
good; content with my farm.”
	A fellow at Norwich was bitten by a
dog. As soon as he recovered from his
fright he declared he would kill the animal.
“But the dog isn’t mad,” said the owner.
“Mad!” shouted the victim, exasperatingly,
“what in thunder has he got to be mad
about?”
	The band of an American circus travel-
ing in France was stupid enough to go out
into the streets in the Prussian military uni-
form they had borrowed or stolen in Ger-
many. Although they played the Marseil-
laise, they were compelled to fold their tents
like the Arab and steal away in front of a
whole infuriated town.
	Orange is said to be the proper color for
spectacles, instead of green or blue, for per-
sons of weak eyes. At the Milwaukee Sol-
diers’ Home a room in the hospital is lighted
through orange colored windows, and is
used, with very satisfactory results, for pa-
tients who have certain diseases of the eyes
requiring the exclusion of the actinic rays 
of light.
	Somebody wrote to the editor of a vil-
lage paper to ask how he would “break an
ox?” The editor replied as follows: “If
only one ox, a good way would be to hoist
him, by means of a long chain attached to
his tail, to the top of a pole forty feet from
the ground. Then hoist him by a rope tied
to his horns to another pole. Then descend
on his back a five-ton pile-driver, and if
that don’t break him, let him start a coun-
try newspaper and trust people for sub-
scription. One of these two ways will do it
sure.”


THE MOORISH GIRLS.
	The young Moorish girl of Algeria, is one
of the prettiest and most fascinating crea-
tures in existence. Her features are oval,
her eyes are wonderfully expressive; but
she is as deceitful as the most artful Euro-
pean coquette. The gracefulness of her car-
riage is exceedingly striking. Her hair,
which is not unfrequently straight, though
sometimes curly, is as dark as the raven’s
plumage. It Is generally arranged in bands,
and is passed round the head and fastened
in a simple or double tail, which is tied
with ribbons, and almost sweeps the ground.
The “coiffure” Is covered with a velvet
“chachia,” which is fastened under the
chin with two pieces of ribbon.
	The Moorish maiden has very small hands
and tiny feet. Her stature is about the
middle height, and her carriage graceful.
Her costume is generally very elegant. The
plainest toilette consists of a gauze chemise,
with short sleeves and a “serroual” (pair of
drawers), made of white calico or muslin,
very wide, and reaching down to the knee.
It not unfrequently happens that the Moor-
ish maiden wears, in addition to the above
toilette, the “djabadoli,” a kind of richly
embroidered vest, which seldom or never
reaches above the shoulders, and which
tends to contract the chest.
	At other times she wears the “rlila,” a
kind of jacket made of silk, and richly em-
broidered in gold. She wears over her
hips, not a crinoline, but a large piece of
striped silk called “fouta,” which reaches
down to the ground; and over that a silken
sash, the gold-embroidered ends of which
hang down in front. When the “rlila” is
worn, the “coiffure” is changed; and the
“chachia” is replaced by a silk handkerchief
of bright colors, or else by the “sarma,”
which is nothing else than the “hemine,”
which the French women wore in the four-
teenth century. The “sarma,” which is
made of gold or silver thread, is generally
a masterpiece of embroidery. We must
not omit to mention the “babouches,” which
are made of green velvet, and which almost
cripple the feet as much as the slippers
worn by the Chinese ladies.
	The Moorish women never move abroad
without being closely veiled. They en-
velop themselves so in a white “kaik” in
Algiers, and in a blue one at Constantine,
that it is utterly impossible to catch a
glimpse of any other part of their features
than their eyes.
	Such is the physical portrait of a Moorish
woman. Her moral one has nothing very
attractive in it, which arises from the want
of education. If of poor parents, she is
beaten frequently, and sadly cuffed about
by her parents. Her only wish is to escape
from their tyranny.
	If her parents are rich, even then she is a
stranger to domestic comforts. She is gen-
erally secluded in a corner of the house, and
left entirely to the care of a negress; and
as she grows up her sole aim and delight
is to become one of the most arrant co-
quettes, and to plunge into all kinds of in-
trigue. A woman, according to the ideas
of all Mussulmans, is nothing more nor less
than a mere toy—a plaything, a piece of
funiture, which every man ought to posses,
but who has no right to think or to act.
Hence the cause of her profound ignorance
and semi-barborous state; and yet the Moor-
ish women possess wonderful talent for
learning. There is a French institution at
Algiers to which young Moorish girls are
admitted.
	Those children who belong to the poorer
class, and who are sent there by their pa-
rents for the sake of the small sum that is
given to all who attend, and because they
get rid of them during the day, are remark-
ably intelligent and quick at learning. The
Moorish girl is not named until eight days
after her birth; but until that ceremony
takes place she is always called “Fatima,”
as the mother of the Prophet. Their prin-
cipal names are Alcha, Bedra, Djohar, Fati-
ma, Halima, Haouria, Khredoubja, Khreira,
Meriem, Mimi, Mina, Mouni, Orgoya, Rosa,
Safia, Sbida, Zeina, Zohra. Not a few of
these names have very flattering significa-
tions; for instance, “Zeina” signifies pretty,
and “Sbida” orange flower. 
	The Moorish maiden marries when very
young; but scarcely any change takes place
in her social position after she quits her
paternal roof to abide under that of her hus-
band. If she moves in good Arab society,
she passes most of her time at the baths
(the gossiping shops of the East and of Al-
geria) and at her toilette; the rest in eating
all kinds of sweetmeats, disputing with her
husband’s other wives, or making appoint-
ments with her friends to visit the mosques,
where she goes to offer up prayers to the
holy marabouts that she may be the mother
of many sons. Thus does she pass her days
in trifles light as air until a certain period,
which, alas! comes but too soon—that is,
when her youth and beauty vanish like a
dream—and then she foils into a lethargy
from which the hand of death alone relieves
her.
	Should she belong to the poorer class,
then her condition is much more to be la-
mented. She is trained up from youth to
perform the most laborious work, and for
which, like the donkey, “she receives more
kicks than presents.” Her husband beats
her and her children, and her condition is
neither more nor less than that of a domes-
tic animal.


An Old-Fasioned  Mother.—Thank
Fortune, some of us have an old-fashioned
mother—not a woman of the period, en-
amelled and painted, with her great chig-
non, her curls and bottines, whose white,
jewelled hands have never felt the clasp of
baby fingers, but a dear,old-fashioned, sweet-
voiced mother, with eyes in whose depths
the love-light shown, and brown hair
threaded with silver, lying smoothly upon
her faded cheek. Those dear hands, worn
with toil, which guided our tottering steps
in childhood and smoothed our pillow in
sickness. Blessed is the memory of an old-
fashioned mother! It floats to us now like 
the beautiful perfume of some woodland
blossom. The music of other voices may be
lost, but the entrancing memory of her
voice will echo in our souls forever. Other
faces will fade away and be forgotten, but
her's will shine on until the light from
heaven’s portals shall glorify our own.
	When in the fitful phases of busy life our
feet wander back to the old homestead, and,
crossing the well-worn threshold, stand
once more in the low, quiet room, so hal-
lowed by her presence, how the feeling of
childish innocence and dependence comes 
over us! How many times, when the
tempter lures us on, has the memory of
those sacred hours, that mother’s word, her
advice and counsel, saved us from plunging
into the deep abyss of sin! Years have
filled great drifts between her and us, but
they have not hidden from our sight the 
glory of her pure, unselfish love.


A chief of the Chippewas drives a dray
in Detroit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ LINES.
		[Written for the EXPONENT.]
Awake, my muse, so long thou’st slumbered,
	All thy laurel wreaths will fade;
Days have passed away unnumbered
	Since I last invoked thy aid.

I would have thee, while awaking,
	With bright laurel twine my brow,
For ambition’s morn is breaking
	Brightly o'er my pathway now.

Highest thoughts, bright aspirations,
	Oft my beating bosom swell;
Shall I banish such reflections !
	Shall I bid such thoughts farewell !

No, but rather let me cherish
	Thoughts so bright, so pure, and deep;
Every idle dream shall perish,
	Every lighter care shall sleep.

Life’s bread pathway lies before me—
	Shall I travel without aim ?
Guardian spirits hover o’er me !
	Help me strive to gain a name !

Hope, bright star, shall onward guide me
	Through night’s deepest, darkest gloom;
Shed its radiance o’er my pathway, 
	Light my passage to the tomb.
  Provo.								M. J. T.


﻿BE KIND TO THE OLD.
Be kind to the old, back in the spring of life,
They may have been o’ertaken by the storms of
	strife,
And amid summer’s sweet buds, fruit and flowers,
They may have seen but few of pleasant, happy
	hours.

Be kind, then to the old, for in the scenes gone by.
Dark, foggy clouds have dimmed the once clear
	eye,
When sorrow’s trying flood did nigh o’erflow,
The hopeful promise of long, long ago.

Be kind to the old, for autumn cool has come;
The Reaper soon will gather the ripe harvest home;
Life’s winter neareth—Ah! how cold and drear!
With no warm, loving smiles the aged heart to
	cheer.

Be kind unto the old as you would blessing seek—
God loves the loving, the filial and the meek;
Parents will cherish, children praises sing.
And an approving conscience choicest blessings
	bring.
San Bernardino.						MINNIE.


THINGS WORTH FORGETTING.
	How much wiser we should be if we could
remember all the things worth remember-
ing that occur day by day all around us; and
how much better we should be if we could
forget all that is worth forgetting! It is
almost frightful, and altogether humili-
ating, to think how much there is in the
common on-going of domestic and social life
which deserves nothing but to be instantly
and for ever forgotten. Yet it is equally amaz-
ing how large a class seem to have no other
business but to repeat and perpetuate these
very things. That is the vocation of gos-
sips—an order of society that perpetuates
more mischief than all the combined plagues
of Egypt put together. Blessed is that man
or woman who can let drop all the burs and
thistles, instead of picking them up and
fastening them on to the passenger. Would
we only let the vexing and malicious say-
ings die, how fast the lacerated and scandal-
ridden world would get healed and tran-
quillized! Forget the gossipings and
bickerings and backbitings, and remember
only the little gleams of sunshine and po-
etry that can illuminate the humblest life
if we will only drive away and forget the
clouds engendered by things that should
never be remembered.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
	A little girl of eight or ten summers
being asked what dust was, replied that it
was “mud with the juice squeezed out.”
	The public should remember that the rate
of postage upon transient newspapers to
any port in the United States is now only
one cent.
	Wise anger is like fire from the flint;
there is a great ado to bring it out; and
when it does come it is out again imme-
diately.—“Matthew Henry.”
	A slight answer to an intricate and use-
less question is a fit cover to such a dish—a
cabbage-leaf is good enough to cover a dish
of mushrooms.—“Jeremy Taylor.”
	Papa.—“Bless me! what a glare! Where’s
your window-curtains, Maria?”
	Mamma.—“Now, don’t be angry, George!
You refused the girls their Dolly Vardens,
and as I would not let them cut up your
dressing-gown, the poor things were forced
to take the curtains.”
	The Republican women of Massachu-
setts have pronounced on the political situa-
tion, at a meeting held in Boston on the
25th ult., and in an address to the women
of the United States. They congratulate
the women of the country on the progress
which the Woman’s rights movement has
made; and look upon Charles Sumner as a
political apostate. Alas, for Sumner, he
has fallen from grace, of the kind Massa-
chusetts appreciates.
	Expectations.—It is reported as a re-
cent occurrence, that a poor man fell in love
with an heiress, and the passion being re-
turned it only needed the consent of the
parents to make them happy. At length,
meeting the father, he asked for the daugh-
ter’s hand.
	“How much money can you command?”
asked the millionaire, gruffly.
	“Not much,” was the reply.
	“What are your expectations?”
	“Well, to tell the truth, I ‘expect,’ if you
refuse your consent, to run away with your
daughter and marry her without it.”
	The Future of Timber.—That the
timber interest of the United States is be-
coming a very important one is not a mat-
ter of surprise, when it is known that
seventy-five million dollars’ worth of fuel
is burned every year in the United States.
Locomotives consume over eight million
cords of wood annually, and over a hundred
million dollars’ worth of sawed lumber is
yearly employed in building and in manu-
factures. Four million acres of forest dis-
appear every year before the axe, to supply
all these demands. No wonder that timber
planting is occupying so much attention in
the west. It is said that California has cre-
ated an officer for the State, of Superintend-
ent of Forest Culture, at a salary of fifteen
thousand dollars a year. This is not prob-
ably wholly accurate, but it shows the di-
rection of public thought. Wood is being
continually put to new uses; one of these,
wooden pavements, will take an immense
quantity in all large cities. there is some
opposition at present to their general intro-
duction on account of the early decay—
about ten years being the limit to this kind
of causeway. But it has been found after
all cheaper than stone blocks lasting fifty
years, because the injury to horses is less,
the wagon tear is less, and the time saved
in going over them enormous. This saving
of time will alone pay for the whole cost of
the road. It is very probable, therefore,
that the consumption of timber will go on
much faster in the future than in the past,
as its uses are steadily increasing.


BUSINESS.
	Many of the business men in the differ-
ent parts of the country, seem to consider
that if they do not murder a man for his
money, nor actually steal it from him, their
dealings must be honest and honorable. No
difference how great the advantage they
take of the necessitous circumstances in
which another is placed, or of his mistakes
or ignorance; it is the “Almighty dollar”
that they are after, and with them it is no
matter how it comes, so they get to clutch
it. But they would not like to be thought
dishonest. Oh, no; they are “our honor-
able business men!”
	And some women seem to think that it is
none of their business where the “money
comes from,” if they can only get to handle
a good share of it. They never question
their husbands as to the prospects ahead,
debentures or anything of the kind; such
affairs are no business of theirs, and they
do not trouble themselves about other peo-
ple’s concerns.
	The business of every just and upright
man, should be in all his dealings with his
fellow men, to see that they, as well as
himself, are benefitted and blessed. And
no true woman will allow her selfish propen-
sities to so far overpower her consciousness
of right, as to require means for her per-
sonal gratification which could be more
wisely spent, or which have not been ob-
tained in a legitimate way.
	It is everybody’s business to do as much
good and as little harm in the world as pos-
sible, and no one has a right to do anything
contrary to this rule.					L.


﻿RIGHTS AND WRONGS.
				—
	The cogency with which “rights” and
“wrongs” have long been bandied about, by
different parties and denominations, and
the impromptu manner in which these sub-
jects are being handled now, show a spirit
of unjust and relentless constraint on the
part of those in power, while to those who
clamor for privileges with which they are
not, but should be, invested, in many in-
stances, it gives an air of unwarrantable de-
fiance.
	How these things will terminate remains
with the near future to which we are fast
approaching. But one of two things must
inevitably occur: Either the two bodies
will collide, or a grand union of interests
must take place. Why not the latter?
Why should not hirelings receive just com-
pensation for their labors, and where their
exertions serve to enrich their masters, why
should not they likewise be rewarded by a
generous share in the profit made? Why
should not woman stand side by side with
man, and feel that her interests are his, and
that apart from the general welfare and
happiness of the human race, her aspirations
and anticipations are nothing? True woman
has no desire to step ahead of man, or to be
considered superior to him. Her present
aim is but to walk with dignity, keeping
pace with the real whole-souled man, and
not being thrust back to grovel in ignorance
and vice with the lawless and unprincipled
libertines, who in the forms of men infest
the country to an alarming extent. Men
who are just and wise, do not seek to pre-
vent woman’s coming up even with them;
nor will they refuse her their protection
against the persecutions of villainous ma-
rauders, who would rob her of justice and
peace, who seek to keep her out of her true
position by the side of man, which she will
ultimately hold—not by force but by mutual
agreement.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WHY WOMEN ARE EXTRAVAGANT. 
			   —
Somebody once said that the women of
to-day are so extravagant in dress, and so
helpless in other respects, that none, but
rich men can afford to marry, and foolish
people have been saying the same thing, or
something very like it, ever since. Every
time a man fails in business, people take a
mental inventory of his wife’s wardrobe and
cry out, “Poor fellow! he was ruined by her
extravagance!”
No account is taken of his club expenses,
or his unnecessary restaurant bills, or his
fast horses, or the vanity which prompted
him to buy a bigger or a finer house than
he needed. Nothing is said of his dress
coats made by some Monsieur Snip, who
charges extra price because he calls himself
an “artist tailor.” The man may have
gambled his money away, or have lost in
reckless stock speculation, for all anybody
knows to the contrary, while his wife, be-
lieving him to be rich, has dressed and
lived only as his circumstances warranted,
doing it, too, only for his sake, that he
might not be ashamed to introduce her as
his wife. Or, if she had been as extrava-
gant as he, the fault is usually his so long as
the fact remains that any proper man can
lovingly control the course of any proper
wife. Women are often extravagant. The
fact cannot be denied. But that they are
more so than men is by no means true. As
a rule, every woman wishes to live within
her husband’s income, and in nine families
out of ton all the economizing is done by
the wife. This constant iteration of the
charge against women, however, has se-
cured a kind of passive acceptance for the
theory, and nothing is more common now
than for the young men with salaries of two
or three thousand a year to lament their in-
ability to marry, because women are so ex-
travagant. One of these has recently told
the public through the newspapers how it
takes all his salary of two thousand dollars
to support a single man, and looking over
his bills of items and finding that it takes
fifty dollars worth of perfumery every year
to keep him sweet, we quite agree with
him that he should not marry.—“Hearth
and Home.”


LADIES WHO READ THE EXPONENT:
	I will receive, in time for the Territorial Fair
and General Conference, one of the largest assort-
ments of Books, Stationary, etc., ever brought to the
Territory, including Ladies' books on Physiology,
the Training of Girls, Cookery books, Educational
works in great variety; Albums; all the late Maga-
zines; papers and periodicals; Stationery, Toys,
Presents, Sunday School rewards, etc., etc.
						JAMES DWYER.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant farics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't[new column]LADIES 	!	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.		

H. WALLACE
  	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
	Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
 
			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to face emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	   ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
							J. E. JOHNSON,
							St, George, Utah.


			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1 Copy one year, $2.00 	1 Copy,six months, $1.00 
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents 
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions, 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
