VOL. I	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1873.	No. 21.﻿


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	New York proposes to allow women own-
ing $250 in property to vote. Liberal New
York!
	Corrupt nations march to ruin with
more certain tread than they ever do to
victory or greatness.
	The Congressional whitewashing sea-
son is about over; but several darkened
reputations yet show discoloring stains.
	A very sensible lady, speaking of the
follies of fashion, remarks, concerning the
“Grecian Bend:” “Had the Creator desired
to see women with humps on their backs,
He would so have created them.”
	An eight year-old “country lassie” is re-
ported to have named one of her chickens
after a prominent Utah official, “’cause,”
she says, “that old hen is always cackling
when there’s nothing to cackle about.”
	Utah has received two new Associate
justices. If they are an improvement upon
their predecessors, the Territorial Supreme
Court quorum of three would not be injured
by another similar change.
	The friends of Woman Suffrage in
Massachussetts, are grieved at the action of
the Legislature of that State, in which, not-
withstanding the Republican platform, the
prohibition of equal political rights for
women was voted down by a large majority.
They declare themselves “defeated but not
conquered;” and they will eventually gain
the victory.
	“Strikes,” on a large scale, are threat-
ened again, in the East. Those of last
spring cost the employers and workmen of
New York over thirty-three millions.
That is the way capital and labor cut each
others’ throats. Both desire to make money,
and yet by these “strikes” prevent the
accomplishment of the object. Were there
less pride and stubborness among them,
arbitration might be successfully resorted to
for the settlement of their difficulties.
	The hunt for offices has been, so great
that President Grant has lamented the pres-
sure upon his time and patience from this
cause. It seems that the glory of the aver-
age masculine American, throughout the
States, is to become a politician, and the
aim of the politician is to secure office. The
country is viewed as a fat oyster which it is
the precious privilege of every member of
the winning party to open and enjoy.
	George Francis Train is confined in
the Tombs, the principal prison in New
York, for publishing the “Train Ligue,” on
the charge that it contained obscene litera-
ture; and a physical who has examined
him says he is insane. We have not seen
the “Train Ligue," and consequently cannot
speak as to its contents; but it is possible
Train’s peculiar style of telling the truth
has considerable to do with this medical
opinion as to his insanity.
	Six out of ten vacancies in the Internal
Revenue Department, at Washington, to be
filled by competition, were gained by
women, who doing the same work as men
receive the same pay. This is gratifying,
yet the right thus conceded should have
been recognized long ago. It was in Utah
that the right of women to support them-
selves as clerks, telegraph operators, and so
on, was first publicly and practically
acknowledged, and now it is being admitted
all over the country.
	The Editor of the San Francisco “Pio-
neer”does “not believe that Celestial mar-
riage; or polygamy, is an agreeable, natural
condition for men and women.” Let her
honestly and intelligently contrast polygamy,
as found in Utah, with that condition of
society impotently fought against, which
exists so largely and but semi-covertly in
San Francisco and elsewhere; and say which
social system she considers the more agree-
able and honorable.
	Foster, the “car-hook murderer,” was
hanged on Friday, March 21st, in New
York. His crime was the killing of one
Avery D. Putnam some two years ago, in a
street car, because Mr. Putnam endeavored
to protect two ladies from insult. On the
same day McElhaney, the Massachussets’
wife murderer, was also hanged; he had
brutally killed his wife. Charles Mortimer
has been found guilty of murder in the first
degree, in Sacramento, California, for the
killing of Sarah Gibson. These three cases
are enough for one issue of the Exponent,
to convince its readers how fast the world
that berates the Mormons for their “peculiar
views”’ on the woman question, is traveling
toawrds woman being protected and treated
as she should be.
	The special session of the United States
Senate closed on the 26th ult., not one of the
resolutions for expulsion of corrupt members
of Congress having passed either branch of
the national Legislature. Senator Patter-
son, of New Hampshire, accused of corrup-
tion and perjury, escaped because his term
of office had expired; Senator Pomeroy, of
Kansas, was declared innocent in the face of
very positive evidence of his guilt; Senator
Caldwell, from the same State, resigned,
although it was believed, that a vote to
expel him would have failed; Senator Clay-
ton, of Arkansas, was declared innocent;
while in the House, Ames and Brooks were
censured for admitted corruption, but not
expelled.
	If every, man in the country could be
paid as well for his services as the Rev. Dr.
Newman, palatial residences and comfortable
carriages should be more plentiful than they
are. Dr. Newman receives his salary as
pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Metropo-
litan Church, in Washington; he also re-
ceives $7,500 for being chapalin of the Senate
of the United States; and he has lately
received the appointment, from President
Grant, of Inspector of Consulates, as he pro-
posed a pleasure trip around the world, by
which he has the expenses of the trip paid,
and receives besides, $6,000, in coin. Un-
doubtedly he is a fortunate man, and his
good fortune is multiplied upon him because
he was defeated in discussion by Elder
Orson Pratt, in the New Tabernacle of this
city, when he came to overthrow Mormon-
ism, but was himself overthrown,
	The house of Representatives of the
New York Legislature, in session at Albany,
on Monday, March 24th, instructed the
Judiciary Committee to bring in an amend-
ment to the State Constitution, providing
that tax paying women citizens shall have
the right to vote. There are two anomalies
in this country that would bear explanation,
considering that “taxation without repre-
sentation” is held to be a grievous and
radical wrong. One is, why the people of
the Territories should be taxed by Congress
without a vote, by representative or dele-
gate, in imposing the tax, or disposing
of the money thus raised after it has been
collected. And the other is, why women
who own property and are taxed, all over
the United States, are refused representation
of any kind, except in two of the Territories
thus unjustly dealt with. The women and
the Territories only ask their just rights
from government and from the States.
	The question “are women citizens of
the United States within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Consti-
tution?” is expected to be shortly decided
by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in a suit brought by Mrs. Myra Bradwell
of Chicago, against the State of Illinois, for
refusing her permission to practice law.
Should the decision be in her favor, it will
make woman suffrage a fixed fact in every
part of the Republic, and will not then be
in the power of any demagogues to take the
right of suffrage from the women of Wyo-
ming and Utah, the only portions of the
United States where the elective franchise
is enjoyed by the sex. With this principle
sustained by the judicial branch of the
government, it might be said that the
builders budded more firmly than they
knew when framing that amendment, which
was intended to confer certain rights upon
the colored population but would be found
unwittingly to extend to women as well.
That this would work a greater revolution
in politics than the emancipation and enfran-
chisement of the blacks no one can doubt;
and some of the best jurists in the country
contend that the decision of the supreme
tribunal is certain to confirm it.
	“Was it a Ghost?” is the question agi-
tating a portion of Minnesota at present,
over the following rather curious item
which we clip from an Eastern paper: “In
the great storm which proved fatal to so
many people in Minnesota, one John
Weston, of Worthington, was overtaken on
his way home through the woods. Three
days after, his wife, who was anxiously
awaiting his coming, heard as she
thought at the door the voice of a neighbor
saying, ‘Mrs. Weston, John is frozen to
death.’ She went at once to the door, but
nobody was there. So, six days after, an-
other neighbor saw the missing man stand-
ing about fifteen feet from, the stable door.
He addressed him with, 'why are you
here, we thought you were frozen?’
When the ghost answered, ‘So I am, and
my body lies a mile and a half northwest of
Hersey.’ With this the ghost vanished.
The depth of the snow prevents searching
for the body at present.” Should the body
be found, at the place thus indicated, the
question now agitating that community will
be as far as ever from settlement; for the
world is unwilling to believe the truth in
regard to such phenomena, and prefers to
ascribe them to hallucination of the mind, or
accept the first theory that meets approval.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For	the	Exponent.
		THE WORLD IS PROGRESSING.

The world is progressing! the sunlight of science.
	With new luster sparkles to-day,
And keen, searching intellect wins an alliance
	With secrets long hidden away;
Bright genius unfolds new and great combinations
	Of power to bless and serve man;
While muses and graces forsake not their stations
	Adorning the structure so grand.

The world is progressing! O womanhood arouse
		thee. 
  Nor in the swift race be outrun;
The great wheels of progress will never turn
		backward,	
  So roll them right bravely, each one—
In the proud halls of state, at the hearthstone so
		 lowly,
	Let your voice for improvement be heard,
Strengthen virtue and honor, disdain things un-
		holy
And bid thought soar as free as a bird. 

The world is progressing! O manhood, waken
	And join in the jubilant strain!
The fetters which bound thee now surely are
		breaking
	And never shall gall thee again.
No more in the dust shall thy meek head be
		trodden;
	No more shall injustice o’erwhelm;
Thou shall rise above ignorance, fashion and folly.
	And reign as a queen in thy realm.

The world is progressing! old fabrics of error
	Fall, moldered and crumbling to earth:
While structures, far statelier, nobler and fairer,
	Rise pillared  with power and worth.
Old Prejudice withers 'neath the blows that are
		dealt her.
	And for power, wild struggling she keeps;
But her terrible sway shall forever be broken—
	Humanity no longer sleeps.

The world is progressing! yet all is not stainless
	Grim evils yet flourish abroad—
False teaching false swearing and falsehearted
		statesmen,
	Black intrigue, and blackest of fraud.
But the world is progressing! thank God we’re
		progressing!
	The day of dull torpor is past;
Brave hearts and strong hands are their ardor
		expressing;
The millions are waking at last!
							Lu Dalton.
Beaver.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS!

			Pleasant Grove,
				February 26th, 1873.
Dear Exponent:—
	We have been silent so far to the public;
yet we have been busy at home, trying to
promote the interests of our Relief Society,
which has, in the proper way, discarded a
portion of its former appellation—the word
"Female." We have plenty of faithful
sisters who evince a spirit characteristic of
our noble callings. Our Society is in a 
healthy state financially. By our generosity,
coupled with economy, we have succeeded
in gathering and saving quite a handsome 
amount of means which we have invested
in Co-operative institutions where we have
a perpetual benefit in dividensd.
	There is a unanimity of feeling among
our members to assist in building up the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. Our
monthly meetings are well attended. We
have rendered assistance to many public
improvements, as well as giving temporal
relief to those in our midst who are needy.
	We are of the opinion that it is very
opportune that we have such an organ as
the Exponent, for while Congress and 
President Grant are devising some means,
no matter how unconstitutional, against us
as a people we, the "weaker" portion of the
community, can speak boldly for the noble
institution with which we are so closely
interwoven that it will take more wisdom
than men can conceive of to cause us to re
linquish one iota of our holy religion.
"Fear not little flock, it is my good will to
give you the kingdom."
	God bless the right.
					Rosalie E. Driggs.

				Salt Lake City,
					March 13th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward is
doing well, has a sufficiency for its poor,
and some to spare. The annual report,
which was read on the 6th of February,
showed the Society to be in a flourishing
condition financially.
	On the suggestion of our President, Mrs.
O. Hyde, the Society donated $80 to
the Emigration Fund last year. At a meet-
ing held in December, Secretary Mrs. Alder
moved that the word “Female” be dropped
from the Society, in accordance with the
views of Sister E. R. Snow, which was
passed by a unanimous vote. At the same
meeting President Mrs. Hyde requested the
visiting Committees to visit their blocks
and solicit for a Christmas dinner, for the
poor, which resulted in the donation of $30
in cash, chickens, pies, cakes, groceries, etc.
being collected, and our needy had a sub-
stantial reason to be glad that it was Christ-
mas.
	There are less needy in the ward at
present than at any time since its organiza-
tion, and a feeling of perfect unity exists in
our Society. We also feel that President
Mrs. Hyde and her Counsel have blessed the
Society, wisely guiding it, and the good
feeling we have always enjoyed is the
natural result.
	Our Bishop and the brethren have decided
to build a new meeting house this Spring,
and have taken active measures towards it,
for which we are thankful; and at a recent
meeting voted to help them all that lay in
our power; for we have sadly felt the need
of a comfortable meeting house in the Ward; 
and with it, we feel we will increase in
wealth, both as a Ward and as a Society.
					Mrs. O. Hyde, President,
	Mrs. G. A.  Alder, Secretary.

		19th Ward, Salt Lake City,
				March 20th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Having been rather remiss in forwarding
you a report of this branch of the Relief
Society, we will endeavor to offer one as
concise as possible now. During the five 
years the Society has been organized, the 
donations in cash and merchandise have 
amounted to $1,400. Our disbursements 
are $900, having donated $100 to the Emi-
gration Fund, $75 to missionaries, made
various other donations of small amounts
and used means for the benefit of the poor
of the Ward; which leaves a balance on
hand of $500 designed to be devoted to
building a hall for the benefit of the Society.
We hold our sewing meetings semi-monthly,
and our meetings for receiving donations
and making disbursements, monthly. Al-
though but few, comparatively, of our
members meet together, yet the people of
the Ward donate liberally to sustain the
Society. When we realize the blessings of
this great institution, organized in our
midst, we are led to exclaim Surely our
Father in Heaven careth for his children!
We have declined the use of the word
"Female," as being superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society. We think
very highly of the EXPONENT and wish it 
much prosperity.
		Respectfully yours,
				A. A. Pratt, President;
	Maria W. Wilcox, Secretary.

	A meeting of the Relief Society of the
10th Ward in this city, held March 6th, was
attended by Sisters Mary L. Horne, Zina D.
Young, Elizabeth Howard and Louise L.
Greene. That branch of the Society appears
to be active and wide-awake in relation to
the many responsibilities which the sisters
are learning to take upon themselves as
legitimately belonging to them. The re-
ports given in concerning those who are
needing assistance, and the general interest
exhibited in their behalf, showed the sisters
of the 10th Ward to be in possession of the
true spirit of their calling, and united in
their desires and efforts to do good.

	The tenor of spirit manifested at the
general meetings of the Co-operative Re-
trenchment Associations, held on the 15th
and 29th of March, in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, showed that retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, as first introduced
in the associations, had not been lost sight
of by a portion of the members. The im-
portance of self-culture was also warmly and
intelligently vindicated.

	The sisters in Heber City send us cheerful
reports of the Relief Society in that settle-
ment.


﻿THE JOYS OF THE POOR.
			  ——
	A woman was washing outside the door.
Her arm was slender, her eye dark and
quick, her forehead high and white, not-
withstanding exposure to the sun and wind.
There are some brows that never will
darken, no matter what the chances.
	The room was the last and least in the
row, at the further end of the alley. Seeing
the approach of a stranger, flashes of feeling
ran over the washerwoman's face, showing
she would have liked a moment to adjust
her toilet.
	Listen! There is music within! An in-
strument in the hands of a boy, apparently
about ten years of age, is leading the
infant voices in melting strains of simple
song.
		"Let me kiss you father, kiss you,
			I am very tired of play;” 

	There sat little Susie on the wood, the
baby on a rude stool near by, while Willie,
the eldest of the three, stood as if leading the
singing, and on the other side, the boy
playing the instrument with very superior
skill. I moved not another step, spoke not
a word, scarcely breathed, so exquisite
was the thrill that ran through my whole
being! Listen, angels! Harken children
of earth! This is heaven, though it be in a
hovel! All in unison; not the slightest
discord from beginning to end; not one in-
distinct syllable or misplaced accent! Now
they have ceased;	
	“Why madam, are these all your child-
ren?” I asked; and received the following
reply:
	"Yes, ma’am; they are all mine! and
don’t they sing prettily? Don’t you think
the poor have their joys as well as the rich?
I go out daily to wash that they may have
bread to eat; and when I return and hear
their sweet voices I forget that l am weary
or poor.”
	“But where is their father?” I queried:
“Ah! ma’am, he has wasted his life in the
drinking saloon, and we have left him in our
native country. He comes no more to
abuse the dear children, nor to humble me 
with threats and blows; and now we are
happy, though we are poor."
							BETTY PINE.
Salt Lake City, March 16,1873.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	WOMAN'S WORK IN THE GARDEN. —Don't
say you have no time.  Leave off a ruffle on
Susie's apron, or the rows of braid on Tom-
my's jacket.  If the kitchen floor be not
daily polished to whiteness, your husband
and his troop of hungry men will not mind
it; so, just ge tthings in trim for dinner, and 
steal the time for some pleasant work in the
garden every day.  Pay no regard to John's
sly  hint that a lively race with him down
through the potato patch, hoe in hand,
would do just as well; but coax or hire some-
body to spade a little plot of ground, and 
the work of planting and weeding will be a
penance for numerous physical ills.  A sun-
bath in your own dooryard might be just as
potent, and certainly less costly,  than if
prescribed by a physician to be taken on the
hillside,  at some fashionable water cure.
Try it, ye worn and exhausted toilers, who,
in the never-ending round of houshold 
labor, are fast losing that buoyancy which is
such a powerful lever in lifting heavy bur-
dens.
							RUTH DANA.
	A USE FOR RUSHES.— When I was quite
a little girl, I remember paying homage to
an egg shell which hung in the cottage
window of an old lady whom I visited.  It
was ornamented with a particular design at
nothing, I think, only the blending of
bright colors.  This was effected by dyeing
the pith of common rushes in various bright
colors and glueing them on in rings.  Since 
then, I have discovered that very beautiful
imitations of flowers like the camelia, 
tuberose, etc., may be made by their skillful
use.  Make each petal separately and fasten
the center with wax.  Once commenced,
you can scarcely fail to make pretty flowers
—if you are patient.
						ROSE GERANIUM.
	IF YOU wish to have your pictures show
to greatest possible advantage, avoid all
figured wall paper, or have the figures
as small and  quiet as your taste will allow.
—"The Beautiful Home."
	GINGER SNAPS.—One pint of molasses;
two thirds of a cup of butter; one teaspoon-
ful of ginger; a small half-cup of sweet milk;
one measure each of Horsford's preparation.
Mix well in flour enough to roll out
	SOFT GINGERBREAD.—One and a half cup
of molasses; two thirds of a cup of sour milk;
half a cup of butter; one teaspoonful of
soda; one teaspoonful of ginger.
	SWEET SAUCE (for all kinds of pud-
dings).—Half a cup of butter; one cup of
sugar; one cup of milk.  Stir the butter and
sugar to a cream; boil the milk, and while 
boiling stir in one teaspoonful of corn-starch
previously mixed in a little cold milk; pour
the milk while boiling, over the butter and
sugar.
	STEAM PUDDING.—Two cups of sour
milk; two cups of flour; two cups of corn-
meal; half a cup of molasses; two small
teaspoonfuls of soda; a little salt.  Steam
one hour and a quarter.
	DELICATE CAKE.—The whites of five
eggs beaten to a froth; two cups of white
sugar; half a cup of butter; one cup of milk;
three cups of flour, and one measure each of
Horsford's preparation mixed well in the 
flour.
	MOUNTAIN CAKE.—Two eggs; one cup of
sugar; half a cup of butter; half a cup of 
sweet milk; two cups of flour; one teaspoon-
ful of cream of tartar; half a teaspoonful of
soda.  A little nutmeg and fruit impoves it.
	APPLE JAM.—Weigh equal quantities of
sugar and good sour apple; pare, core and
[new column]
chop the apples fine; make a good clear
syrup of the sugar; add the apples, juice and
grated rind of three lemons, and a few
pieces of white ginger. Boil it until the
apples looks clear and yellow. On no
account omit the ginger.
	WHILE SMOKING meat with chips or saw-
dust, put on the fire a few red peppers;
the fumes will prevent all insects from at-
tacking your meat.
	WINDOW-BOXES—Plants may be success-
fully raised in these, where only a few are
required for early crops, and are often more
convenient than a hot-bed.


[For the EXPONENT.
			THE EVIL OF SLANDER.
					 ——
	There is probably no one thing in which
the Saints sin so much as in speaking evil
of their brethren and sisters, and attending
to other people's affairs.  The poet says:
"We've faults enough at home to mend,"
and we all know this is true.  Yet how 
prone we are to meddle with our neighbors'
failings, to desire to pull the motes out of
their eyes when probably, at the same time,
there is a beam in our own.  There is one
things we should all bear in mind: if our
brother or sister does wrong we are not the 
ones to put him or her right; that belongs
only to those who are placed over them.
And another thing, their faults have noth-
ing to do with us, unless they sin against
us individually.  When they do so, it is our
duty to go to them privately and tell them
of their error, instead of going to those who
have no right to know anything about it.
If we will do this with the right spirit we 
will be tolerably sure of receiving satisfac-
tion.  In all we undertake we should have
the Spirit of God to dictate us; then we are
certain of doing right; for that Spirit never
leads anyone into difficulty.  The Lord
never forsakes us, it is always we that for-
sake Him when we are unhappy.  He is
always ready and willing to pour out
blessings upon us when we are willing to 
receive them.  We should not watch for 
iniquity, for if we look for evil we will
certainly find it; if in no other way, by mis-
construing something that was meant for 
good.  You know there is a woe pronounced
upon those that make a man an offender for 
a word.  Let us remember what the Savior
said.  "Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them."
I don't think many of us carry this out in
the true sense of the word; for we would
not like to think that our friends were
criticising our talk and actions in our
absence.  We would think they were both
unjust and unkind, when at the same time
we have scarcely a friend in the world but
we can find some fault with, and are very
apt to do it.  It is a good rule never to say
a thing in persons' absence that we would
not be perfectly willing for them to hear.
If we adhered strictly to this rule, it would
be very little evil we would ever speak of
anyone; if we told them of a fault we would 
be as lenient as possible.  Girls, let us strive
to do right, and be forbearing with each
others' weaknesses, and the Lord will bless
us, for He is desirous to bless and comfort
those who seek Him with full purpose of
heart.
								M.F.


IT IS astonishing to see how readily bad 
habits may be overcome and good ones
grown into by a person whose mind is fully
made up to be wise. That attempts at re-
form so often prove futile, is simply because
of a lack of resolution and determined
courage.


[For the Exponent.
		"DOES HER OWN WORK."
				    ——
	"Does her own work! Does she!" I
heard this uttered in a sneering con-
temptuous tone, as if it was a disgrace to
the girl in question; as if she was less a
true lady, less worthy of respect than those
who sit with their hands in their laps and
never know or realize aught so blissful or
satisfactory as the sense of real dignity
which is the happy attendant of honest,
healthful labor. And I could not help
thinking the expression of such feelings
evinced a selfish, narrow mind, better fitted
for almost any other community than ours,
whose institutions are based upon honorble
labor as one of the most essential corner
stones.
	Such utterances show the detestable spirit
of caste, which should be foreign to any but
the vain and ignorant, but which is estab-
lishing itself too forcibly among certain
classes in our midst. They should reflect
that manners and morals, as well as dress
and occupation, enter into the grand mak-
ing up of a character. If a woman is able to
live without actual labor, let her do so if
she so desires. But to be ashamed of work,
or of a knowledge of how to manage the
shop, or the kitchen, or to sneer at those
who do work, betrays the presence of a
"false pride." Were ouw mothers ashamed
to work, or are we ashamed of them because
they did work? It is an honor to any woman,
any society, to be able and willing, when
necessity requires it, to do her own work.
							M.   R.   W.
		EDUCATION OF WOMEN.
				  ——
	George W. Curtis thus closed his lecture
on the education of women: Now, as to
the question of a collegiate education for
women, it is not proposed that women shall
be compelled to go to college but only that
they shall have precisely the same opportu-
nity that men have, if they wish to improve
it. There is in England at this very day
a lady lecturing at the Young Women's 
Institute upon domestic questions, such as
"Would you prefer to use an earthen or an
iron pot upon your kitchen stove?" or "How
would you lay out ten shillings if you had a 
sick husband and six children too young to
work?" and "How would you make bread?"
This is precisely the kind of education; the
sooner it becomes universal, the sooner we 
shall have better food and better health. We
have our agricultural fairs and colleges, and
certainly if it is worth while to teach us how
to raise wheat it is as wise to teach us
how to convert it into bread. If there are
branches of knowledge improper for wo-
men to learn or duties unfit to perform, they
will know it a thousand times better than
men, so give them their choice. If there
be some women in whom the love of learn-
ing extinguishes all other love, then the
heaven-appointed sphere of that woman is
not the nursery. It may be the library, the
laboratory, the observatory. Not the happi-
ness of Romeo and Juliet. but star-eyed
science is her place.  Does such a woman
prove that perfect liberty of education un-
spheres woman?  On the contrary it has
enabled that woman to percieve exactly
what God meant her to do. We have left
the petted slave in the Greek-household, to
go onward and forward.  We have left
the idle toy and the painted doll with
Chesterfield and the clubs, and we still go
forward.  God lead us to find the true
woman in the free American home.


﻿THERE are 50,000 gold-hunters now in
Africa.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy; six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine.  Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonparell space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
			      —
	Dr. Feard joins his opinion with the senti-
ment which is becoming popular, that
modern brain-workers sleep too little..........
The Iowa legislature gives too much credit to
its lady clerks and commends women for
such employment to future General Assem-
blies......Mrs. Woodhull's lecture on "Naked
Truth" is said to contain very indecent and
blasphemous language......Maria A. Elmore
is writing a series of articles on "Woman's
Dress," a subject which demands more
serious and sensible attention than it re-
ceives......Six lady physicians graduated in
one day lately at the "Woman's Hospital
Medical College."......A woman admirably
oversees the binding in one of the largest
printing-houses of St. Louis......George W.
Curtis has been dangerously ill with typhoid
fever, at his home on Staten Island, occa-
sioned by overtaxation in his civil service
and other duties......Mrs. S. B. Chandler
has lately concluded a series of lectures in
Washington on "Education and the duty of
parents."......The Queen of Belgium is said
to own the finest horses in the world......A
German housekeeper in New York, Mrs.
Lawrence, about six feet high and weighing
250 pounds, captured a house-breaker the
other night, without any assistance, taking
from him an offensive looking knife and a
chisel of considerable magnitude......Ten-
nessee employs its female prisoners in
breaking rock for street pavement......Pro-
fessor Fowler is reported to have said, "If
you would marry a good wife, get a romp."
It is reasonable to presume he meant a care-
ful, studious, virtuous "romp," who can
enjoy work as well as play......Again report
says, that the winsome little actress, Lotta,
has departed the stage—of life; this time it 
is in France; but may possibly be another
mistake of the telegraph......A man in Illi-
nois has lately found out, to his great
astonishment, that there is a newspaper
published "away out in that wild country,
Oregon.”.....Vienna has a type-setting
school for girls. Other schools should intro-
duce this art, for girls and boys too......
California gives equal pay to male and female
teachers, according to the abilities mani-
fested; that is fair play......Since the death
of her father, Miss Ella Chapin fills the
position he formerly held as Register of
Deeds for Gratiot County, Michigan......Two
practical artizans, two scientific men and a 
large number of honorary commissioners have
been appointed by President Grant, to  attend
the  Vienna Exposition......Printers in Swit-
zerland think they have a "fat" situation
when it affords them $3:60 per week......
Mrs. Snyder, a Syracuse shop-lifter, stole
$1,500 worth of dry goods in an hour. The
Leavenworth "Commercial" thinks she
should go to Congress......Paris has a band
of robber composed partly of females......
Brooklyn gives a detective, convicted of
perjury in a divorce suit, six years and 
three months in the State's prison......San
Ignacia, Mexico, has witnessed a remarkable
phenomenon in a shower of quicksilver......
The German Geographical Societies are going
to send explorers to supplement the discov-
eries of Dr. Livingstone......A man in Ohio
was lately literally ground up by being
caught in the cogwheel of a flour mill......
The past winter, particularly the latter
portion of it, is very generally admitted to
have been an old fashioned one......Brick
Pomeroy's divorced wife is married again....
The President's salary having been doubled,
it is intimated that he will now be able to
pay off the national debt with greater ease
and rapidity than at any former period......
[new column]
The prince of Lichtenstein has placed his 
castle at Vaduz at the service of the nuns
expelled from Germany......An English
Chief Justice decides that the writer of a
novel has no more right to dramatize it
after publication than any other person has.
......Pike County, Indiana, has a famous
medical spring......The grounds and sewer-
ages are being prepared in Philadelphia, on
the site of the proposed buildings for the
Centennial celebration......In Taylorville,
Polk County, Iowa, poor men recently be-
came rich in one day; oil was discovered
and the price of property instantly trebled.
......Somebody stole a Maltese cat from the
Superintendent of the New York Police
Department, lately; he offered a reward of
fifty dollars for its recovery, and the place
is lively  with cats since that time, though
he has not discovered any trace of the real
stolen one......A couple were married on the
cars in Missouri, a few days since, thus
entering into marriage at railroad speed......
Mr. Beecher's salary is $20,000....A daughter
of George Sands is going to marry an ex-
Catholic priest whose home is in Tours,
France......Seven thousand women belong
to the Belgian Internationals...Mrs. Knowles,
widow of the heroic captain of the North-
fleet, is to receive, by order of Queen
Victoria, a pension from the civil list of £50
a year........A woman 74 years old, in Mary's-
ville, California, pursued and shot a thirty
pound wild cat, recently, for having de-
stroyed her pet lamb.


ONE PROMINENT REASON. 
					—
   Said a person a few days ago, who has made
himself somewhat conspicuious in pressing a
crusade against the Mormons, when closely 
questioned on the subject: “The fact is, I care
nothing about how many wives a man has;
I make no pretentions to being a moral man
myself, and I care very little whether other
men are moral or immoral; but I’m bound
to break up th the ocracy and religion that’s in
this thing.” This was not his exact language,
although we have placed it in quotation
marks for we would not transfer to these
columns any of the vile and blasphemous in-
vectives with which his speech was interlarded;
nor would our informant, a gentleman whose
honor and veracity are unquestioned, repeat
them in our hearing; but the ideas expressed
are here produced. The person is thus, himself,
confessedly an immoral man, yet he declaims
against the Latter-day Saints and their faith,
not because he cares whether their practices
are moral or otherwise, but because he aims at
overthrowing their religion and breaking up
their Church; and he finds “polygamy” a word
that can be used to rouse the prejudices of the
bigoted and the ignorant. There is nothing
new in this. It is the old story—as old as the
contest between truth and error; as old as
the revelation of gospel principles to man.
Those who hold to the truth dare not resort to
falsehood to defend themselves, for if they did 
the Spirit of truth would not abide with them;


but those who oppose right, employ every
means, no matter how false, dishonorable or
vile to secure a triumph. This man had some
honesty left. He was fighting to accomplish
an object, Though licentious himself, he
assumed an air of virtue and endeavored to
affix the stigma of licentiousness where it did
not belong, to arouse a public feeling against
the Latter-day Saints; and had honesty enough
to admit as much. The subject needs no
elaboration; it is very plain; and contains a
truth and a moral that should be self-evident
to all.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
				—
	Under this heading the Woman's Journal
congratulates the friends of Woman's Suffrage
that the "Utah Bill," better known as the 
"Frelinghuysen Bill" did not pass the House,
and that through the efforts of the friends of
Woman's Suffrage, it failed to become law.
The Journal's article says: “This abominable
bill, framed by Senator Frelinghuysen, of New
Jersey, and approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, was entitled 'A bill in aid of the
execution of the laws in the Territory of Utah, 
and for other purposes.' But it was especially
designed to remand the women of Utah into
political slavery, and even went so far as to
guard against their future emancipation by
Constitutional prohibitions."
	In support of this the Journal quotes the act
of the Territorial Legislature, conferring the
elective franchise; and the part of the "Frel-
inghuysen Bill" which repeals that act." It 
further shows, after referring to the fact that
20,000 women  were thus to be disfranchised,
that the men of Utah were to be prevented from
again conferring the right of suffrage upon
women; and in this connection the provision
of the bill might have been cited which re-
quired all future laws made by the Territorial
Legislature to be enacted in conformity with
the spirit and letter of this bill, thus attempt-
ing to prohibit the leading Territory of the 
United States from exercising the legitimate
powers which the very fundemental principles
of our government vest in every legislature in
the United States—State, Territorial or muni-
cipal—by which laws shall be made as liberal
as the public good demands; and in conformity
with the Federal Constitution. The concluding
portion of the article we give in full:	
	No content with thus crushing the political
rights of the women of Utah, with the strong 
arm of the Federal Government, Senator Fre-
linghuysen actually proposes to rob every 
married woman in the Territories of her person,
property and earnings.
	"Sec. 23. That the common law of England,
in force in the colonies of America, at the date
of the Declaration of Independence, is hereby
extended over and declared to be in force in
the Territories of the United States, so far as
the same is applicable: 'Provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the Terri-
torial Legislatures of the respective Territories
from modifying the same."
	Remeber, ladies, that "The common law of
England,” thus extended over your sisters in
Utah, expressly gave "The custody of the wife's 
person absolutely to her husband," gave the
husband a right to use "gentle restraint" to
keep her, and to administer "moderate cor-
rection," to punish her; deprived her of the
power to sue or be sued, or to make a will.
Made her the "servant" of her husband; gave
him all her personal property and all her earn-
ings, and the life-use of all her real estate, if
they had ever had a living child, and subjected 
her to despotic control.
	To this infernal law, almost as bad as chattel
slavery itself, Senator Frelinghuysen has
actually induced a Republican Senate to suject
the women of Utah. Thus has the Republi-
can Senate shown itself mindful of its obliga-
tions to the loyal women of America! This is


its “respectful consideration," for the rights of
the women of the Territories.
	Thank God the bill has failed. But this
failure may prove only a respite. The snake
is scotched not killed. Let the women of New
Jersey call a public meeting and denounce tlie
action of their Senator, who has thus insulted
Womanhood. Let them see to it that Mr.
Frelinghuysen is never re-elected to the
Senate of the United States.,
	This question, as the EXPONENT has before
contended, is one not confined to the women of
Utah, for had the “Frelinghuysen Bill” become
law it would have acted adversely to the Wo-
man’s Suffrage agitation throughout the United
States; and it is gratifying to note that this
fact is being recognized throughout the
country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TERRITORIAL FAIR.
				    ——
	The Board of-Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are already
arranging premiums for the forth-coming
Territorial Fair. As it will not be held until
October, this may seem early to direct atten-
tion to it; but there was complaint made—and
we think reasonably so—by the ladies of the
Relief Societies last year, that they had not
sufficient notice to prepare for the Territorial
exhibition so as to make such a showing as
they desired to do, and hence we refer to the
next Fair ,thus soon. One of the most interest-
ing features of the last one was the department
devoted to ladies’ work, in which several
of the Relief Societies made very liandsome ex-
hibitions. When it is understood a few months
in advance that a Territorial exhibition will be
held, the ladies and Societies that design partic-
ipating in it will commence in time and exert
themselves to have such a representation as
they will be satisfied with.
	Since the above was written the following
address was placed in our hands for publication
in the Exponent, which we take much plea-
sure in laying before the ladies of the Relief
Societies throughout the Territory:
		Salt	Lake City, March 25th,	1873.
To the Relief Societies of Utah:
	Ladies:—The Board of Directors of the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society propose holding another Exhibition,
or Fair, in October 1873. 
	In order that ample time may be given to all
who contemplate taking an active part in the
Exhibition, the Directors have already pre-
pared a premium list offering to all competitors
a fine opportunity of displaying their skill,
tact and genius in producing from the mater-
ials at their command, beautiful specimens of
the workmanship of their own hands.
	We cheerfully accord to the Ladies an ac-
knowledgement of the fact that in their
Department the Fairs have invariably been a
success, and when time has been given them
the number of the specimens have never been
meagre, and have generally exceeded that of
any other department.
	The dignity of labor is conceded by all
intelligent beings, and the adage that there Is
no excellence without labor has passed into an
axiom, or proposition to which assent is con-
ceded without proof.   We feel therefore to ask
your honorable associations to unite with us,
from Rich County in the north to Washington
County in the south, in an endeavor to make
the exhibition of 1873 a truthful exposition of
our progress in material developments.
				Wilford Woodruff, President,
	Robert. L, Campbell, Secretary.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Two exceedingly interesting letters from
Miss Eliza R. Snow, will be found in the pre-
sent number of the Exponent.
	We shall be pleased to see our friends, who
may come in to Conference, at the office of the
Exponent, west of the city market.
	The Annual Conference convenes on Sun-
[new column]
day next, April 6th, when a large attendance
is expected. Presidents Young and Wells are
at home and most of the Twelve Apostles will
be present. The First Presidency have deemed,
it expedient to telegraph throughout the Terri-
tory,. to the various Bishops, enjoining the
necessity of strict quarentine in regard to small-
pox, and the importance of persons, who have
been exposed to the contagion not coming to
Conference.
	PREPARATIONS are being made at the
theatre in this city to provide attractive enter-
tainments during. Conference times, including
the spectacular play of “Cherry and Fair
Star,” and the drama of “Stage and Steam,”
written by Mr. E. L. Sloan, of this city, which
when first produced a few weeks ago was so
well received.
	Small-pox has continued to spread in this
city, and the City Council has deemed it neces-
sary to order the quarantine regulations to be
rigidly enforced. Much danger would be
avoided if people, who are exposed to the con-
tagion, would take proper precautions not to
carry it to others; and were all those who need
not be exposed to carefully keep away from
places where, while doing no good they would
be liable to catch the infection.
	Hons. W. H. Hooper and George Q. Can-
non arrived home from Washington, D. C. on
the 15th ult., just too late for their arrival to be
noticed in our last issue. They had passed
through a winter of much excitement in Wash-
ington over Utah affairs, and had been able to
prevent the passage of the special legislation
directed against this Territory. They were
received at Ogden by a large number of their
constituents, with a special train and music
from this city; and welcomed home in the
warmest manner.
	A morning newspaper published in this
city, which gives its attention to abusing
“Mormonism” and “woman's rights,” cham-
pions. some of the worst places in town, and
advocates anything and everything that would
increase here the evils so long fought against
by this community, devoted a little editorial
space lately to the “Woman's Journal” pub-
lished in Boston, confounding it with the
Exponent, and atiempting to berate both.
We merely allude to the fact, as an evidence
of how poorly informed some of these editorial
persons are, relative to matters of which they
treat so flippantly.
	The subject of home manufactures, of
various kinds is again receiving considerable
attention.  This is a matter which the ladies
of the Relief and Retrenchment Societies can
materially aid by precept and example, by
encouraging the wearing of home manufactured
fabrics instead of those imported, by throwing
an influence in the way of wool being woven
up in the Territory instead ef being exported,
and many other ways. And so far as the
fabrics woven in the factories in this Territory
have been exhibited at the last two Territorial
Fairs, they have compared favorably with any-
thing imported. We can all encourage home
manufactures, for all have influence, in a greater
or less degree; and in so doing we promote
prosperity, an increase of wealth to the com-
munity at large, and independence, which is
only truly enjoyed by a people when they are
self-sustaining.


﻿President Grant has subscribed $100
and Vice-President Wilson $50, to the
Greeley monument fund. How much will
be subscribed by the proprietors of Harper’s
Weekly, which helped to kill the over-
worked old man, is not yet announced.


“MANLY" OCCUPATIONS.
				  —
	Some individual has kindly prepared the
following, and  offers it as advice to young
men:
	The young man who has an ambition to
make a great noise in the world should learn
boiler-making.  He can make more noise
in that trade than anything else he can
engage in. 
	If he believes a man should “strike for
wages” he should learn blacksmithing—
especially if he is good at “blowing.”
	If he would embrace a profession in which
he can rise rapidly he should become an
aeronaut. He couldn’t find anything better
“for high.”	
	He certainly could do a staving (and per-
haps a starving) business at the cooper trade.
	If he believes in “measures, not men,” he
will embark in the tailoring business. 
	If the one great object of his life is to
make money, he should get a position in
the United States Mint.
	If he is a punctual sort of a chap, and
anxious to be “on time,” he should put his
hands to watchmaking.
	If he believes in the chief end of man to
have his business largely “felt,” why of
course he will become a hatter.
	If he wants to “get at the root of a thing”
he will become a dentist—although if he
does he will be often found “looking down
in the mouth.”
	If a man is a bungler, at his best, he
should become a physician—and then he
will have none of his bad work thrown upon
his hands. It is generally buried out of
sight, you know.
	Should he incline to high living, but pre-
fer a plain board, then the carpenter trade
will suit him. He can plane board enough
at that.
	If he is kneady and well-bred, he will be
right at home as a baker.
	He shouldn’t become a cigar-maker. If
he does, all his work will end in smoke.
	The young man who enjoys plenty of
company and is ever ready to scrape ac-
quaintance, will find the barber business a
congenial pursuit.
	The quickest way for him to ascend to the
top round of his calling is to become a hod-
carrier.		
	A very “grave” young man might flour-
ish as an undertaker.
	Don’t learn chair-making, for no matter
how well you please your customers, they
will sooner or later, get down on your work.
	And don’t become an umbrell-maker, for
their business is “used up." 
	If he would have his work touch the
heads of the nation, we know of no way he
could sooner accomplish such an object than
by making combs.
	The young man who would have the
fruits of his labor brought before the eyes of
the people will become an optician. The
work being easily seen through, cannot be
difficult to learn.
	Cannot some one prescribe as many good
pursuits suitable to the different tastes and
abilities of young women?


﻿Parsnip Wine.—Cut twelve pounds of
parsnips in slices and boil them in four gal-
lons of water till they become soft, then
press the liquor well out of them, run it
through a sieve and add to each gallon three
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole three
quarters of an hour, and when, it is nearly
cold add a little yeast, let it stand ten days
in a tub stirring it every day from the bot-
tom, then put it into a cask for twelve
months. As it works over fill it up every
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Alexandria, Egypt, 	
				   February 9th, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula :—I wrote you last in
Rome. We found very much in that
ancient capital of the world strikingly
interesting. The unremitting work of time
is nowhere more apparent than in the ruins
of that once magnificent city. The excava-
tions commenced at the expense of Napoleon
Third, and which are continued by the,
present government of Italy, have brought
to light, most astonishing specimens of
former grandeur and architectural skill.
Although much has been unburied, much
more remains, not only many feet beneath
the surface of the earth, but also below
spacious palaces and temples of compara-
tively modern structure, which have been
erected upon the ground formed by accumu-
lations through the lapse of ages, that
constituted a sepulchral arch over Rome of
the Caesars. While there, we were informed
of a design to remove those modern build-
ings in favor of perfecting the work of
excavation, and since leaving, have read a
published article announcing that the work
of demolishing had commenced.
But I must leave Rome for the present
and hasten on to Naples, where we arrived
in the evening of the 25th of January.
That is a city of pomp and beggary; in
fact, there, begging appeared to be more a
necessity than in Rome, where children
well clad, fat and apparently well fed,
seemed to beg for mere amusement, no
doubt being trained to the business. But
in Naples we saw poverty strikingly ap-
parent, and beggars clustered in droves.
Thousands of men, women and children
were on the side walks and in the streets,
lounging about as though they had no
abiding place; most of the men smoking
pipes and cigars—some of the women knit-
ting, others spinning flax in the most simple
manner, with a distaff from which they
drew the thread, and a bobbin or spool
which they twirled to give a twist to the
thread and then wound upon it.
	Many of these people have no resort for
the night only as they huddle into the
porches of the churches, on the steps, or
in niches in the corner of the street. Re-
turning rather late from Pompei one even-
ing, we saw groups of these houseless people
on steps leading into churches. They are
accustomed to this manner of existence, it
can hardly be called living. .Warm climates,
in which people easily exist, foster indo-
lence; and it is doubtful, whether any
inducements could prompt these people to
industry.
	President Smith and most of his party
ascended to the crater of Vesuvius, my ambi-
tion was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder, at a lower point. Con-
tinually throwing out volumes of smoke,
and frequently ashes and stones, it is a
marvel that people residing near and at the
base of this fiery mountain can feel the
serenity they manifest.
	From Naples wo went by rail to Brindisi,
from there by steamer to Corfu, one of the
Grecian Isles thirty miles in length and
from one to fifteen in breadth. It seems
like a cluster of high hills and low dells,
mostly covered with olives and grape-vines,
with here and there a cypress. Varieties
of vegetables are growing in some parts,
also flax, which we saw nearly in bloom.
The Grecian women, living in the country,
are, many of them, at least, “beasts of bur-
den.” I never saw such gigantic bundles
[new column]
carried by human beings as these poor
women carry on their heads. In the city of
Corfu, as in most of the cities we have
visited, America and England are repre-
sented in the circles of fashion. The grand
promenade and public gardens were very
gay, especially in the afternoon of the Sun-
day we spent there.
	At 12 (midnight) of the 2nd of February
we embarked on the “Saturno,” an Austrian
steamer, and arrived in Alexandria the
morning of the 6th. We had a delightful
voyage, no one of our party was sea-sick;
the sea was calm, although the day before
and the day after our voyage were very
boisterous.
		SUNRISE ON THE MEDITERRANEAN.
		We mounted "Saturno's" deck to see
			A grand, magnificent scene,
		The rising sun in its majesty,
			Diffusing its golden sheen.

		A charming precursor first appear’d 
			In volumes of golden rays, 
		Increasing their splendor till all around
			The horizon seemed to blaze.

		Anon, the disk of the "king of day,”
			O’er the wat’ry main arose;
		Now upward and onward he makes his way,
			Till the canopy gaily glows.

		The morning is fine the air serene,
			And the sky above is clear, 
		Except where a tiny cloud
			Like a floating nymph appears.

		The sparkling waves of the sea below,
			The blazonry over head,
		The horizon wrap’d in a burning glow,
			A thrilling enchantment spread.
	No place that we have visited makes one
feel so thoroughly from home as Alexandria;
and in no place have we had more comfortable
quarters and better fare than here. Yet
the medley of nations, religious costumes,
colors, dialects, etc., etc., and the dilapi-
dated appearance of the city, constitute a
scenery at once interesting, ludicrous and
extremely amusing. But my sheet is full,
and I will leave Alexandria, with this intro-
duction, for a future opportunity. We go
to Cairo to-morrow
							E. R. Snow.
			Cairo, Egypt, Feb. 14, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:—We are now in the
flourishing city of Cairo, but I will take
you back to Alexandria, to which I intro-
duced you in my last.
	Although the buildings generally, in that
once celebrated, antiquated city, are speci-
mens of age and decay, it contains some
respectable appearing ones, recently built
and owned by foreigners. Most of the
streets are unpaved, narrow and filthy.
Our hotel in Alexandria occupied a pleasant
position ; our rooms, on the third floor, front-
ing a public square eight or ten rods in width,
affording us full views of two streets and
four sidewalks, which were most of the
time thronged with people and animals.
From our balcony and windows, which
opend at full length, we had an excellent
opportunity for studying national peculi-
arities. The sight was at once intensely
amusing and interesting. It would be im-
possible to give more than a faint idea of
the strange varieties to be seen at a glance;
men, women and children of every shade of
complexion from the fairest blond to the
most glossy jet, with every variety of
feature, and in every imaginable costume.
In five minutes I counted twenty different
styles of covering on the heads of that
number of male bipeds, saying nothing of
those of the feminines. Mixed up with
pedestrians may be seen men, women and
children on donkeys, men on horses and
[new column]
mules, camels laden with enormous masses
of straw, grass, lumber, rock, and frequently
with a man on the top of the load; people pf
all classes in carriages and buggies,rudelycon-,
structed vehicles containing twenty persons
—men, women, and children; and to com-
plete the medley, dogs and monkeys.
	The most comically amusing practice, and
one of constant exhibition, is a person,
either Turk or Christian, on a donkey, with
a man or boy in gown or turban, running
in the rear, and with a stick punching or
striking the animal to quicken its speed.
Our highly respected cashier and inter-
preter, Brother P. A. Schettler, adopted this
fashionable style, but much to the regret of
Miss Little and myself, he disappointed us
of the gratification we anticipated in wit-
nessing the interesting and undignified
exhibition, by performing it clandestinely.
These Arab runners outstrip donkeys, and
equal horses at pretty good speed. It is
quite customary for people of consequence to
have one of these runners in front of their
carriage-horses, clearing the street before
them. President Smith and party rode out
this forenoon in two carriages, with a runner
in white gown and turban, in advance of
each. They felt themselves to be men of
authority—stick in hand, ordering people,
donkeys, etc., aside to clear a passage.
	On the streets, Americans, English,
French, Germans. Italians, Greeks, Turks,
Abyssinians, Jews, etc., etc., mix, and it is
impossible to discover from appearance
who feel most at home. Several of an
English party who crossed the Mediterra-
nian with us, have already adopted the
neat, little, Turkish cap, which, with
turban and gown, is the predominant style
in Egypt. In Alexandria, most of the hotel
servants appeared in no other. I had tried
to persuade some of the gentlemen of our
party that this costume might become them,
but, up to date, they have only donned the
cap—the gown is only yet in prospect.
	The custom of veiling the face, which is
much practised here by Egyptian women,
appears to be very inconvenient. I have
already seen thousands with only the eyes,
and sometimes the forehead exposed; some
with white veils and dressed in white;
others with black, and dressed in black, and
also in various colors; some very richly dad.
Most of the veils are short, made of thick
lace, and fastened across the face just below
the eyes. The outside garb, or covering,
nearly half-square in form, is laid over the
head, fastened under the chin, falling loosely
over the shoulders and reaches to the instep;
and frequently parting in front, exposes to
advantage a beautiful, rich underdress.
Walking in the public garden, seatedi n an
arbor, on the sidewalk, riding on a donkey
or in a carriage, every Turkish or Egyptian
woman you see, looks as though she had a
large shawl over her head. Considering
the outside appearance of the den-like
houses of the Arab Mahometans, it is very
surprising to see how neat they look. Many,
both men and women, dress in white—and
really white; their religion enjoins cleanli-
ness. They have fountains in front of their
Mosques, where the people wash before
prayer. We frequently see them washing
themselves beside the street, probably pre-
paratory to praying, for wherever a true
Mahometan is when the hour of prayer
arrives, he bows to service. We have seen
several where we were passing, bowing
their heads to the ground while their lips
moved as in silent devotion.
	But to Alexandria. The first morning after
our arrival, the early and frequent discharge
of cannon, reminded us of our “Fourth” and
“Twenty-Fourth.” On inquiring the cause,


we were informed the pilgrims were then
ascending the mountain in commemoration of
the Hegira, or flight of Mahomet, to Mecca.
It was also the time for the“Wailing for the
dead” in the Mahometan cemetery. Our cur-
iosity prompted us to walk a tiresome distance
through dust, filth, crowded streets, to the
place designated, where we found thousands
of people of all ages, and, with very few
exceptions, all in Mahometan costumes.
	The graves are covered with clay moulded
into a compact oval form, raised from one
to two feet above the surface, and many of
them surrounded with one, two and three
steps. Beside many of the graves were
those, apparently, who were relatives of
those interred, weeping, mourning or pray-
ing, while another class, with no mourning
sympathies whatever, was exhibiting the
greatest mirth; playing on rude instruments,
dancing-monkeys, buying, selling, eating,
drinking, smoking and having a gala time.
Not comprehending their words and doings,
the entire scene seemed to us a master-piece
of confusion. The throng was so dense it
was difficult to wend our way into the
midst sufficiently to gratify our curiosity,
which we did as soon as possible lest we
might be thought intrusive; and in coming
out, we were beset with importunities to
purchase all kinds of trinkets, bread, cakes,
figs, oranges, dates and many other things
altogether anonymus to us,; but it being
Sunday we were out without any “back-
sheesh” in our pockets—of course were not
prepared to trade.
	In Cairo we have visited a Turkish
Mosque, a Jewish Synagogue, a Greek
Church in which we were shown “where
Joseph, Mary and the Savior resided when
they fled from the wrath of Herod;” a Church
of the Copts, “Joseph’s Well,” which is two
hundred and fifty feet deep,the Pyramids and
“Sphynx,” the Museum of Antiquities, the
Gardens and Palace of Gizeh, which belong
of the Khedive, of whom we had a good view
as he passed us in his carriage while prom-
enading on his premies. He has four wives
and quite a number of children, four of
whom were married during the past month,
which has been a continued holiday festival!
Many thousands of lamps have gorgeously
illuminated, it is judged more than fifty
acres in extent, hung in arches, over gate-
ways, in arbors, most tastefully arranged in
every direction. Yesterday the festival
closed and many were engaged in remov-
ing the lamps and other costly ornaments.
During the festivities firing of cannon was
frequent, and the exhibitions of fireworks
in the centre of the illuminations wore ex-
ceedingly grand. Three of the recently
wedded, are sons; the daughter’s nuptials
were since our arrival. It is said that her
intended had seen her photograph previous
to marriage, but not her face. If that is so,
it is to be hoped he has met with no un-
favorable disappointment.  She has the
reputation of being very pretty and amiable.
On the 17th we leave Cairo for Suez.
					Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿LIBERTY is self government—not govern-
ment “by” ourselves merely, but govern-
ment “of” ourselves—strict and unrelent-
ing, healthful and cheerful.
	SCATTER flowers on the young maiden's
coffin, ye blooming friends!  Ye used to
bring flowers on her birthday feasts; she is
now celebrating the greatest of them, for
the bier is the cradle of heaven.
	LOCKMAN, the philosopher was once
asked, who had given him his first lesson
in wisdom.  “The blind,” he replied, who
do not move a step in advance until sure of
the ground with a stick.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
					—
Dear EXPONENT:—
	I wish to say a few words about the
women of Utah and others. It is an old and
threadbare story, I know, but I still wish to
have my “say.” I believe it is a fact, well
demonstrated, that women were created for
wives and mothers; and I believe, too, that
most women prefer filling the measure of
their creation. I do not believe that women
naturally desire to become the creatures
that some men would make of them; yet,
man made in the image of his Creator,
wearing the form of Godliness though sadly
devoid of its attributes, will deceive, humil-
iate and degrade woman; and her sister
woman will pass her by with contempt,
stinging her with scorn, and sinking her
still deeper in dagredation and misery.
And such persons will raise their hands in
pious horror at the thought of the man who
dares to take two or more at a time, as law-
ful wives, and raises them to a station of
respect and honor. God ordained that
woman should marry; why should she be
restricted in the choice of a husband, or get
none at all? If bachelors will not marry,
women must needs choose from the married
men, or remain single. We are told again
and again that women are slaves; perhaps
they are, but how is it, where is it, and
why is it? Surely the statement cannot be
considered true of us, since we chose to
follow our husbands to a new country, a
thousand miles from “civilization,” to brave
the hardships and perils of a journey across
the great American desert, where the roads
were new, and ox teams instead of palace
cars were our means of conveyance!
	True, for years, and while the hardy
pioneer was tilling the soil or working in
the canyon, what kind of a wife must it
have been who would not have done her
best to help provide for the comfort of home?
Was this slavery? Perhaps it was; but the
master was stern necessity.   Spinning,
weaving, and toiling in every possible way
for herself and loved ones, were the labors
of the day; but when they were over, she
could commend her soul to God, and sleep
peacefully, to awaken refreshed for the bur-
den and toils of another day.   All this was
done cheerfully and happily; and I say, God
bless the wives and mothers who have
striven thus nobly for their husbands and
little ones, and for the Kingdom of God!
Their names will be handed down to future
generations and their children will rise up
and call them blessed.
	Sensation writers have tried to represent
them as degraded and oppressed. If so,
who were their oppressors? Not the hus-
bands and fathers, whose portion was
poverty, in which the wives and daughters
shared alike its toil and inconveniences.
Often the cry has been raised that the
women of Utah could not escape from these 
valleys. Had our “sympathizers!” come
here as we did they would not have been
anxious to have tried to leave in like man-
ner. The prospect was not tempting. But
now that their way is open, the opportunity
does not seem to be improved by many.
	The women of Utah, “fallen and de-
graded!” They have been cherished and
respected, and woe to the villains who would
seek to degrade them! In Church affairs
they have walked side by side with their
husbands, and their votes have often been
called for in matters of importance. They
have held the same power as their husbands,
to sustain the authorities. 
Bloated demagogues, standing in high
places, have often called a blush to the cheeks
of modesty; but thank God, they were a min-
[new column]
ority, and their influence  appears as if
becoming “beautifully less.” Their cow-
ardly insults and blatant demonstrations of
power have carried a weight among
strangers and caused the men of Utah to be
misjudged; but civilization is opening its
way through our country and that matter
with many others will have a fair chance
for investigation.	
	The women of Utah have never clam-
ored for rights. They have always found
as many rights as they have been capable
of attending to, and as great tasks in their
own sphere as they have had strength to
accomplish. Unasked for, but not unwel-
come, came to them the elective franchise,
by which they were called upon to aid
in choosing their rulers, which though a
matter of importance, they had been well
contented to leave in other hands. But
since this privilege has been lawfully
granted them, they seek to manifest their
appreciation in modesty and union, and
to perform the duties that are placed before
them with care and forethought, and again I
say, God bless the noble women of Utah!
								M. J. T
Provo. 
			  —
			Provo, March 3rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	As so much is being said at this time
concerning the marriage relations of the
Saints, I feel desirous of taking part in the
grand controversy,
	I am not a theorist, but one who has had
quite an experience during a period of
fifteen years, and feel pleasure in testifying
that when people will be guided by the
Spirit of Truth and the word of the Lord,
that no state or condition of society is so
well calculated to foster purity and social
advancement, as the doctrine and practice
of plurality of wives; and I am certain, that
if I am always privileged to continue in the
faithful discharge of the duties and obliga-
tions connected therewith, that I shall be
numbered among the redeemed of all
nations. As one of our poets has lately
sung:
	“Hearts and homes in union dwelling
		All the wives of one good man; 
	Peace and love our bosoms swelling
		Guided by the Gospel plan;
	In one home we raise our offspring
		In the nurture of the Lord; 
	Of the Spirit’s power partaking
		And the Gospel’s power restored.,
	Praying the Lord to bless you in your
truly womanly efforts to overcome evil and
establish righteousness I remain yours truly,
							A. M. Jones.


THE ladies of Boston propose to give Rev.
George MacDonald a testimonial.
	THE King of Holland has disinherited
his eldest son.
	THE French Assembly has made intoxi-
cation a penal offense. 
	THE Queen of England has subscribed
$800 to the fund in aid of the survivors of
the North-fleet disaster.


﻿MANY flowers open to the sun, but only
one follows him in his course.  Heart, be
thou the Sun-flower; be not only open to
thy God, but obey Him too. 	
	IF love’s sunshine fall upon the bare, cold
rocks, in the restless sea of desolate human
life, flowers will spring up even there, and
fill the place with gladness.
	Make up your mind what you intend to
do.  Sit down and count the cost.  Do not
undertake more than you can perform. It is
unwise to commence work that you are not
able to finish in due season.


﻿WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


A WARNING TO YOUNG LADIES.
					 —
	A  lesson and a warning to the young
ladies of Utah contained in the scandalous
conduct of the man Anderson, who was
arrested here a few days ago, and the folly
of the girl Mitchel, who fell into his snares.
Flattered by his notice, and deceived by his
plausible tongue and “gentlemanly” man-
ners, the girl left her home in Salt Lake
City and came to Ogden, where her sorrow-
ing mother discovered her with her seducer,
after a long search, aided by the police.
Anderson promised to marry the girl, but
subsequently tried to decamp without ful-
filling his contract.   He was arrested and
taken back to Salt Lake, where, to avoid
the punishment of the law he married the
victim of his wiles.
	How many times have our young ladies
been cautioned about associating with
strangers, and warned against the arts of
polite but designing scoundrels? What
respectable girl would think it any consola-
tion to be wedded to a man who only con-
sented to marriage through the force of law
and the fear of punishment? And when
will the odium of the disgrace attending
such a scandal be chased away from the
guilty parties? 
	Our girls are brought up in innocence of
the vices and corruptions of the great world,
and enjoy great freedom in companionship
with their juvenile friends, male and female.
They think no evil of those in whose com-
pany they may be cast, and unless willing to
heed the advice of their friends, are apt to
be led astray. The only path of safety for
them is to avoid the intimate society of all
persons about whom they know little or
nothing, and associate only with those in
whom their parents, guardians, or trusted
friends, have confidence. By taking this
course many will save themlselves from
shame, and, perhaps, from present and
everlasting ruin,—“Ogden Junction.”


﻿The Law of True Marriage.—“Wher-
ever,” says Gail Hamilton, “man pays
reverence to woman—wherever any man
feels the influence of woman, purifying,
chastening, abashing, strengthening him
against temptation, shielding him from evil,
ministering to his self respect, medicining
his weariness, peopling his solitude, winning
him from sordid prizes, enlivening his
monotonous days with mirth, or fancy, or
wit, flashing Heaven upon his earth, and
mellowing it all for spiritual—there is the
element for marriage. Wherever woman
pays reverence to man—wherever any
woman rejoices in the strength of any man,
feels him to be God’s agent upholding her
weakness, confirming her purpose and
crowning her power wherever he reveals
himself to her, just, upright, inflexible, yet
tolerant, merciful, benignant, not unruffled
perhaps, but not overcome by the turbulence
and responding to all her gentleness, help-
ing her to hold her soul steadfast in right;
to stand firm against the encroachment of
frivolity, vanity, impatience, fatigue and
discouragement; helping to preserve her
good nature, to develop her energy, to con
solidate her thoughts, to utilize her benevo-
lence, to exalt and illuminate her life—
there is the essence of marriage. Its love
is founded on respect, and increases self-
respect at the very moment of merging self
in another. Its love is mutual, equally giv-
ing and receiving at every instance of action.
There is neither dependence, but inter-
dependence. You cannot, weaken its bond;
distance cannot sunder them; it is a love
which vanquishes the grave and transfigures
death itself into life.
-


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
 The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
Z.C.M.I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
		RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
		DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
				     —
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	$34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-			  48 00	Clubs can be commenced at any time;  and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Mondy can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York, expressly for
this trade.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of 
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman's Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman's Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 Copy six months, 	$1.00
10 Copies one year,     18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman's Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

