VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1873.	 NO. 19.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAINE PROPOSES to give women the
ballot; progressive Maine!
	"DON'T TOUCH me; hit him;” is the way
Idaho talks of legislation for the Territories,
pointing to Utah.
	“THE HILL to be-devil the Mormons” is
how a leading Eastern paper talks of the
Frelinghuysen bill.
	THE WINTER just closing has been in
several parts of the country the severest
known for many years.
	INDIANA is gratified over the fact that it
has as many marriages as divorses. It could
scarcely divorce couples until they were
united.
	THE WORLD moves, annually, diurnally,
religiously, socially and politically, besides
the downward movement now painfully
conspicuous.
	WERE PIETY and patriotism as highly
prized and eagerly sought after as pelf,
what a happy, blessed country these United
States would be!
	THE SPANISH republic is threatened by
the Carlists, Bourbonists, Federalists, and
general disruption. The prospect is not
very encouraging.
	A PREMIUM of one hundred dollars was
offered for the prettiest baby at an Iowa
fair. A “nigger baby” won the prize. So
the world moves
	THE PRESENT session of Congress and the
present Congress—expires on the 4th inst.
at noon. It will be known in history as the
very discreditable Credit Mobilier session.
	INSTEAD OF a bitter bill by Congress
against Utah this session—which expires on
the 4th at noon—there is talk of a Commis-
sion to come to Utah and investigate
matters here.
	CALIFORNIA HAS an incorporated State
Woman’s Hospital, the trustees being com-
posed conjointly of prominent men and
women of San Francisco.	It was incorpor-
ated on the 18th ult.
	THE WOMAN suffragists of Oregon form
a State Society which is to meet once a
year. They will not be likely to meet
many times ere they meet the desired end
for which the society is organized.
	THE PROPOSAL of a commission to inves-
tigate matters in Utah meets with favor
from all quarters, except where there exists
a desire to push a crusade against the “Mor-
mons,” regardless of law, right or justice.
	A WISCONSIN singing master recently
flogged a young lady pupil, seventeen years
of age, breaking a wooden ruler on her per-
son. He is under arrest, and should have
the full benefit of the law in such cases made
and provided.
	THE ERA of fires in the United States is
not over, and now it is said the Interna-
tionalists, with branch societies in different
parts of the country, are threatening to burn
the leading cities. The scenes enacted in
Paris by the Internationalist Commune,
are not yet forgotten.
	NEW YORK imprisons George Francis
Train for publishing a paper containing
extracts and sentiments more pointed than
fashionable, calling it obscene literature; and 
allows the vilest illustrated papers to be
circulated freely, while its haunts of vice
are admittedly sustained by many of its
leading men and officials. Virtuous New
York!
 	FROM THE rapid spread of Spiritualism
and infidelity in the United States, it is a
question what fractional part of the commu-
nity nominal Christians form, and whether
a half of the clergymen have any belief in
what they preach.
	AFTER A few newspaper correspondents
had startled the country from its propriety
by the announcement that ten thousand
troops were to be sent to Utah, it was stated
on authority from official sources that there
was no truth in the report. A tithe of the
falsehoods published in a year concerning
this Territory, would make a large-sized
volume.
	THE WOMAN'S Suffrage Association, of
New York, at a meeting about two weeks
ago, adopted a resolution and protest, entreat-
ing the House of Representatives of Congress,
to defeat the bill offered by Merritt, dele-
gate from Idaho, which included the disfran-
chisement of the women of Utah. And for
this the members of the New York Woman’s
Suffrage Association have the warmest
thanks of the women of Utah.
	MRS. DUNIWAY wishes the charming
actress, Mrs. G. B. Waldron, “would flourish
her own feminine name, instead of the mas-
culine one of her husband.” Why? We
think it an honor to the lady to evince that
respect for her husband which she does in
wearing his name with dignity. And it is
certainly a credit to the profession they
follow, that there truly exists between the
gentleman and his wife an affinity of feeling,
said to be rarely met with among people of
their profession.
	DURING THE last presidential election,
Henry Wilson, the successful candidate for
Vice-President, authorized a telegraphic
dispatch to the New York “Times,” denying
that he owned any Credit Mobilier stock.
He admits that he did authorize the dis-
patch, and says he did not own the stock, as
he gave it to his wife. Our next Vice-
President for the four years commencing
March 4th, is a thoughtful man and a model
husband. Congressman Brooks turned over
his Credit Mobilier stock to his son-in-law,
but Mr. Wilson's plan of getting rid of it was
much better, for it kept it still closer in the
family.
	ONE OF the most quiet and important
revolutions of the century was that by
which Spain ceased to be a monarchy
and became a republic. The young King
Amadeus, with rare wisdom in so young a
monarch, seeing that his occupancy of the
throne was the cause of internal dissensions
in his kingdom, resolved to abdicate and
did so. The Cortes, or national congress,
after receiving the formal decree of abdica-
tion passed a vote establishing a republic
and immediately a provisional government
was formed. So far the new republic has
conducted itself with dignity, and with the
adhesion of the masses may become in a
short time more firmly rooted than is the
present French government, that seems
dependent on the will of Thiers for its
existence.
	THE NEWSPAPERS continue full of sensa-
tions concerning Utah; and one hardly
wonders that people traveling between the
East and West should feel a little tremor
when they approach Salt Lake City, as the
“news” widely circulated will lead honest
people who are not accustomed to have
wholesale fabrications palmed upon them
for truth, to imagine that there was a dread-
ful state of society here. And yet, with the
exception of a lawlessly disposed class that
has recently come to this city, especially
since a “vigilance committee” compelled
some of them to flee from Pioche, the city is
one of the most quiet on the continent. But
by and by summer will be here, travel will
increase across the continent, and as it was a
couple of years ago, when people were half
frightened to come here and were astonished
at the magnitude of the published false-
hoods when they arrived, so it will be
again.
	PARSON NEWMAN, chaplain of the U. S.
Senate, has again let his “piety” run loose
in stirring up a crusade against Utah. His
eloquence having failed to force poor argu-
ments on sensible and better-informed 
people, he seems determined, if possible, to
make them feel that there is a strong arm
of power which can be invoked in his favor.
Failing In logic and debate he would try
bayonet and rifled cannon. Frederick the
Great, of Prussia, was wont to enforce his
arguments, it is said, by heavy kicks on
the shins of those who discussed with him.
One day he remaked to an officer: “You
cannot stand up before my arguments.”
“How can I” was the response, “while you
wear such heavy boots?” Parson Newman
wishes his arguments sustained by the
machinery of perverted courts, infantry 
regiments, cavalry cohorts, and artillery
batteries. He desires the people of Utah
to understand that the sword is at hand to
force his syllogisms down the throats of the
Latter-day Saints. And he is a clergyman,
too! 
	SUPPOSE A crusade should be urged
against the Roman Catholics in this country,
because they believe in the infallibility of
the Pope and the invocation of Saints; or
against the Second Adventists because they
believe the Lord Jesus Christ will speedily
come and rule over the earth; or against the
Methodists for imagining that the simple
action of the mind in believing will secure
their salvation; or against the Presbyterians
for holding that a portion of the human
family are born to be saved and cannot be
damned, while another portion are born to
suffer eternal tortures and cannot secure
salvation, and what a howl would resound
throughout the entire country! Yet this is
precisely what is being urged against the
Latter-day Saints because they believe in
Prophets and present revelation; for the cry
against polygamy, it is admitted, is merely
raised for effect,the immorality of the age
caring but little in regard to morality, and
perfectly satisfled that the people of Utah
are the most moral of any community on
the continent. The onslaught against the
“Mormons” is merely an attack on religious
liberty, stirred up by a few who either do
not comprehend what they are doing or are
entirely reckless as to its results, if they can
only accomplish their purposes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
			THE YEAR 1872.

	The Year is stepping out regardless of
My long, long distance from my Mountain Home.
It leaves me in Italia's “sunny clime,"
Where verdant foliage, gentle breezes kiss,
And balmy zephers fan the evening tide.

	The year now passing out, has, in its course
In lib’ral portions, meted out to me
The wide extremes of deep bereavement, and
Munificence in richly flowing streams,
Which I acknowledge freely ere we part.

	All grateful reminiscences, the old,
Expiring Year inscribes indelibly
On mem’ry's sacred tablet, richly wreath’d
With choice mementos of the good produced—
Of vict’ries truth and justice have achieved—
Improvement’s progress in the march of mind,
And every aid to poor humanity;
While its successor treads upon its heels

	Good bye old Year. We both are moving on:
You, to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn,
I, to the farfamed land of Palestine,
Which has a hist’ry of the past, that bears
With a momentous and eternal weight,
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold, magnificent developments.

	I go to place my feet upon the land
Where once, the Prince of Peace, the Son of God
Was born—where once he lived and walk’d and
	preach’d,
And prayed, admonished, taught, rebuked and blest;
And then, to answer justice’ great demand,
And seal his mission of Eternal Love,
Upon the cross poured out his precious blood —
Arose to life triumphant o’er the tomb;
And after being seen and heard and felt,
Ascended up to heaven; and as he went,
These who stood looking, heard an angel say,
"Ye men of Gallilee, why stand ye here
Gazing to heaven? The selfsame Jesus, whom
Ye see ascending, in like manner will
Again descend.’'

				Each year that passes on,
Clips from the thread of time, a portion of
Its intervening length, and hurries up
The coming great and grand fulfilment of
That strange prediction—strange and strangely true.

That most moment’ous period for the great
Event, is fast approximating, and
The moving of the waters now, amidst
The nations of the earth, like deepes; shades
Of pencil drawings, seem foreshadowing
The world’s great crisis.

						Human policy
Grows tremulous; while human governments,
With tender care are fondly fostering,
And feeding with their life’s best nourishment,
The seeds of their own dissolution.

								France
Is poising on a pivot. England rests
On her broad pedestal, but resting moves
With vaulting tendencies. The tamed
Italia stands in leaning posture from
The Papal Chair to King Emmanuel;
While Russia, beckoning to Austria,
To Germany, or whosoever will;
Solicits help to lift the balance
Of Power, now lying just beyond her reach.

The wires of destiny are working on,
To consummate eternal purposes,
And bring results of change, that must precede
“The Second coming of the Son of Man;"
When, unto Him, “whose right it is to reign,"
All human pow’rs and governments will bow.
								Eliza R. Snow.
Milan, Italy, Dec , 31, 1872.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

			TOOELE CITY, Feb. 10th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR:—
    According to request, I write to inform
you that as a society we unanimously agreed,
some time ago, to drop the word “Female,"
from our appellation. I think it was a very
sensible move of Sister Snow’s,
    We feel, as a branch of the Relief Society,
thankful that we have sisters to lead us who
possess the Spirit of God and are able to give
us meat in due season.
    The EXPONENT, I think, is a paper that
is bound to succeed; it is “filled” with good
counsel, good ideas, and carries with it a
saving influence; and every family ought to
have it.
	I believe our Society in Tooele can com-
pare favorably with that of any other
settlement. It is now nearly three years
since we were organized, and we have been
trying ever since to do our best. We have
excellent meetings. The sisters are alive
to their duties, and I believe will accomplish
much good. We held our annual ball last
week, to assist in raising means for the
Emigration Fund; it was quite a success.
We have room enough to do a very large
amount of good, both at home and abroad;
and that God may strengthen and direct us
in all our ways is the humble prayer of your
sisters,
	MRS. MARY MEIKLEJOHN, President;
EMILY WARBURTON, Secretary.

		    SECOND WARD, S. L. City,
				February 13th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    At our meeting on the 2nd of January,
1873, we were favored with the presence of
our Bishop, Brother Leach, and his Counsel-
ors; also sisters Zina D. Young, Elizabeth
Howard and Martha B. Young; who ad-
dressed the meeting, exhorting to faithful-
ness and perseverance in good works. Our
financial report gave a good showing for the
year 1872. A motion to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society
was presented, and the vote to sustain the
proposition was unanimous.
    We held another excellent meeting on
the 6th of February, at which sister Sarah
Wheeler was appointed and unanimously sus-
tained as President of the Society, in the
place of sister Nicolona Oleson, who has been
faithful and energetic in her calling, but has
lately left the Ward.
			JANE RICKARD, Secretary.

		RELIEF SOCIETY, 10th WARD,
		   Salt Lake City, Feb. 21, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    At a meeting held November 7th 1872, it
was agreed upon by our Society to omit the
word “Female,” as suggested. Our report
comes thus late on account of our failing to
get the understanding that each Society
was desired to report.
    Although our subscription list to your
excellent paper is yet small, it will increase;
for many are pleased with it. Those inter-
esting letters from Sister E. R. Snow are
splendid. May God bless, preserve and
inspire her to write us many such is the
prayer of her faithful sisters. The Society
here is prospering. Our monthly business
meetings are moderately attended, and
good feelings pervade; our semi-monthly
meetings, for testimony, prayer and etc.,
are doing much good. Our Retrenchment
Society has been reorganized and our young
sisters have made a very good beginning.
We have the confidence of our Bishop and
his counselors who are well pleased with our
exertions. Our President has been very
sick but is now better.
    May success attend the EXPONENT and
may it go faithfully and steadily onward.
    Respectfully yours,
			SARAH STRONG, President.
    SUSANNA M. NAYLOR, Secretary.

EDTIOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    I feel that I owe you an apology for neg-
lecting to forward our mutual approbation in
regard to dropping the word “Female,” as
it is considered superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society.
    The Society of the 4th Ward (Provo,) is
in a healthy condition, new members being
added at nearly every meeting. It could
not well be otherwise with such a President
as Mrs. Holden, who delights in the order
of the Kingdom of God, often referring to its
beauties and grandeur. And she has the
assistance of a “live Bishop,” whose ex-
ertions are unceasing in looking after and
providing for the poor. I have never known
his individual interests so pressing that he
could not sympathize with the bereaved of
his Ward, and accompany them to the last
resting place of the deceased friends. His
presence at our meetings, his counsel and
instructions, are ever cheering and highly
appreciated. So much for Bishop Wm. A.
Follett. Our much esteemed Treasurer,
Mrs. M. J. Smith, in consequence of ill
health, has not been able to meet with us
this winter, yet she has exerted herself far
beyond her strength for the good of the
Society. A person of less “vim” would
long ago have yielded to another the laborious
position of Treasurer, but with energy like
her’s, there is no shrinking while the vital
spark burns.
    With kind love to yourself and all inter-
ested in the great cause of regeneration,
        I am truly yours,
			L. W. KIMBALL, Secretary,
4th Ward Relief Society, Provo.

    At the Retrenchment meeting in the 8th
Ward, Salt Lake City, held February 12th,
1873, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was
present in the interest of Physiology. If
she had a “hobby,” it was the importance
of having a knowledge of one’sself and the
proper uses of one’s powers. Self knowledge
was the first step toward self improvement.
Science taught that pain was a penalty and
did notbelong to nature. If one was dys-
peptic, there was a cause for it, either
inherited, or through abuse of some of the
powers. Human bodies were not forlorn,
disagreeable objects and should not be
subjected to causes that would make them
such. Every correct lesson learned of self,
made one better acquainted with her fellow
beings. “We give ourselves the wounds we
feel.” Health was productive of happiness,
which was the legitimate pursuit of all
flesh. Ladies’ skirts should not be fastened
with bands but the weight of their clothing
should be suspended from the shoulders.
Tight lacing was a sin against humanity.
The natural shape of the human body was a
little flattened and not round, as it was
forced to appear from the pressure it
received by the way in which many ladies
dressed. The body should never be clothed in
a manner to prevent the breath being drawn
in deeply and freely. The breath was the
life. When weary and feeling depressed,
hardly aware of what the cause might be,
one would often find relief from long, deep
breathing, there being too little oxygen in
the system. Professor Bronson, a learned
physician, while suffering with consumption,
from which, it was believed, he never could
recover, had gained a “thought,” while
watching a dying child, which was the
means of his restoration to health. He saw
that the child’s breath grew shorter and
shorter as death approached it, and saw also
that if the child could only continue to
breath, it could live. He thought, then,
that he would not cease to breath; and
he would go into the open air and draw long,
deep breaths for some time; and that simple
remedy cured him. Professor Fowler had
also told of once being so completely ex-
hausted that he felt it an impossibility for 
him to fulfill an engagement to lecture.
He threw himself upon the bed and began


drawing long, heavy breaths, which he felt,
rested and restored his fatigued body, and
he was soon able to rise and attend to his
business.
	The speaker asked if we could not apply
these and similar lessons to ourselves, and
answered that we could; she had proven it;
that twenty, thirty or even thirty-five years
ago she had seemed older than now, had never
enjoyed better health or been half so happy
in her life before, as at the present time.
	Sister Zina D. Young remarked that no
one had any right to trifle with existence
God had given. A short time ago a young
lady had died suddenly, and after her
death it was ascertained that by lacing, her
ribs had been turned in, so that the front
ends almost met with the back-bone. Good
sense should once more get the upper hand
of pride and vanity, and then woman could
live long and fulfill the measure appointed
unto her with rejoicing. It was well to
always cultivate a happy, cheerful spirit.
If the tears of the daughters of Zion were
to be wiped away, the present was as good a
time as there would ever be to begin it.
	Mrs. Willmarth East said, that to contem-
plate the degeneracy of the human family
was enough to convince any one that it was
necessary to study and learn the laws of life
and health. Dieting was one thing that too
little notice was taken of; and going with
damp feet was one of the worst things a
woman could do to produce desease and
suffering. For the sake of future genera-
tions, mothers should endeavor to preserve
health and longevity that the same might
be implanted in their offspring.
	Miss L. L. Greene was interested in the
subject of Physiology; the laws of nature
were the laws of God; it was impossible to
violate the one without sinning against the
other. In order to reasonably exercise
faith in God—men and women should live
in accordance with the laws of their beings.
The principles of the Gospel were the prin-
ciples of eternal life; a proper knowledge
and use of the faculties, physical and mental,
would make gods and godesses of the
children of men.
	Sister Mary A. Leaver, President of the
8th Ward R. Society, was grateful to the
sisters who had visited the Ward—not to
benefit themseles, but others. Hoped the
daughters of Zion might become one in
gaining useful knowledge and live by the
same.
	Sisters Tufts, Needham, Chamberlain
and Leaver, (daughter-in-law to President
Mrs. Mary A. Leaver,) bore testimony to the
truth, as revealed in the Latter-days, and
asked blessings upon the sisters who were
visiting and instructing them.
	Mrs. Lona Cross Spencer, President of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association,
thought that the faith of the sisters was
strengthened by their joining their testi-
monies and speaking words of comfort and
encouragement to each other. Brother
Heber C. Kimball used to talk very plainly
to the sisters about their manner of dress.
She thanked sister Kimball and the sisters
who came with her for their good words.
	Sister Kimball said the grateful feeling
was mutual—she and he companions also
returned thanks

			Salt Lake City, 13 Ward,
						January 25th, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	We intended sending you a report of our
Society long ere this, but sickness and other
unavoidable hindrances have prevented.
Our meetings, as in most instances, have
been attended by the faithful few, though
many who do not meet with us have
donated liberally. Our receipts for dona-
tions since the Society was organized
amounts to $1,597:50. The sick and needy
have been cared for; we have assisted in
building a house for an aged couple, besides
expending means to aid repairs on the As-
sembly Rooms; donated to the P. E. Fund
$161; towards building the Temple $270;
have invested in the 13th Ward and Saving
Bank to the credit of $230 and in the
Treasury, in cash, clothing, etc. $72:50. Our
meetings are held the first Thursday in each
month; the Spirit of the Lord is much
enjoyed by those attending, who realize
that they are times of refreshing and tend
to strengthen and stimulate us to increased
energy and diligence in our duties as Saints
of God, and in the good cause in which we
are engaged. I believe I can say, there is
an increasing interest taken in contributing
to the good of the Society, and that it is in
a flourishing condition; trusting that the
demands and necessities of the poor will
continue to enlist our sympathies and efforts
to do them good, until it can be said “There
are no poor in Zion.” The Woman’s Ex-
ponent is highly appreciated by many of
our members, who pray that it may continue
to increase in interest and circulation.
		ELIZABETH H. Goddard, Secretary.

	Saturday the 15th of February, being a
fine and favorable day, a very fair represen-
tation of the members of the Retrenchment
Association were present at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, in this city—their usual
place of meeting.
	After the ordinary preliminaries, Presi-
dent Mrs. Mary I, Horne made excellent
remarks concerning faith, which she testified
was indeed, in the language of the Apostle,
“The substance of things hoped for—the
evidence of things not seen.” If by faith
the sick had been healed, mountains re-
moved, the dead raised to life, and many
other marvelous things accomplished, what
might not the Saints hope for if they but
lived to secure to themselves that faith
which is obtained through obedience to the
requirements of the laws of God? If we
had but faith as a grain of mustard seed, it
had been written, that we might say to
that mountain “remove hence” and it would
be done. The Saints had nothing to fear if
they would live their religion so as to keep
the faith, and also gain continual increase
of the same. But without faith their power
would amount to nought.
	Sister Percinda L. Kimball said, every-
thing that was necessary to be done, could
be done through faith. If the people lived
faithfully and humbly they should not fail
in faith, but their faith be strengthened
constantly. They should exercise faith for
each other and for the Kingdom of God,
and if they could but live worthy of faith,
such as God was able and willing to bestow
upon them, no power would be able to harm
them, but all things would work together
for the good of the Saints.
	Sister Hannah W. Brinton was happy to
see the countenances of her sisters beaming
with intelligence and light, which bespoke
good hearts and pure minds. She believed
it impossible to accomplish any good thing
without faith.
	Sister Eleanor J. Pratt saw that there was
much to weaken the faith of the Saints, yet,
she believed the women present, if united,
could have sufficient faith to avert any evil
that might be aimed against Israel.
	Sister Sarah Groo said that it required
considerable faith to induce her to arise and
address an intelligent congregation like that
before her. She was glad that faith had
been chosen as a subject for consideration
in the meetings; she had been edified and
felt that she understood more concerning
faith than ever before.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard gave a very 
interesting account of her early experience
in the Church, and of the peculiar manner
in which the light of truth was first made
manifest to her mind, and showed what
power there was in the prayer of faith.
After which she said that the enemies of
the Saints were preparing to give them 
another lift up the hill; as they were—
many of them—too careless and indolent,
about the things of their religion, to keep in
the right path, except they were urged on
occasionally.
	Other remarks were made, and there ap-
peared to be a general impression that the
subject of faith had been introduced into
the meetings at the right moment, that its
exercise, with earnest prayer in behalf of
the Church, was highly requisite.	
	The same subject was to be continued at
the next meeting.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A COOL-HEADED YOUNG WOMAN.

	A short distance this side of Union, on the
Union and Titusville Railroad, there is a
very long and very high trestle, and one
upon which nobody ventures who is at all
inclined to be light-headed. Immediately
this side of the trestle there is a sharp curve
in the road, so that a person walking on it
can not be seen by the engineer of an
approaching train until it is nearly upon
him. On Friday last, as Mr. Wm. Toles,
engineer of Mr. Holmes’ train came around
the curve at a good rate of speed, he was
horrified to discover a lady about the mid-
dle of the trestle, and hardly a train’s length
from him. Quick as thought “Billy”
whistled “down brakes,” gave her sand, and
threw back the reversing lever, while at
the same time he knew that it was an utter
impossibility to check the heavy train before
the victim would be overtaken and crushed
to death, and with fixed eyes he awaited
the catastrophe. The lady heard the
warning Whistle, and turning her head saw
the iron monster almost upon her. Escape
seemed impossible, to remain was certain
death, to jump to the ground beneath, a
distance of thirty or forty feet, equally cer-
than death, and to attempt to run ahead and
escape was out of the question. Unlike
ten thousand young ladies—and she is said
to have been young and fair—out of ten
thousand and one, she did not scream or
faint or indulge in any nonsense of any kind,
but realizing the situation in an instant, and
taking the chances all in, she proceeded to
an action that saved her life. About thirty
inches below the ends of the ties, and im-
mediately under the stringer which supports
them, there is a joint five inches wide run-
ning from one support of the trestle to
another, and to this the clear-headed girl
resorted for safety. Stepping to the end of
the ties she swung herself down to this
narrow thread with the apparent case of a
gymnast, and with her arms clasped around
it stretched herself at full length along it as
the train thundered by almost over her. As
soon as the engineer saw her action he threw
off his brakes, and putting on steam hurried
past as soon as possible, when she nimbly
sprang to the track again and pursued her
journey as though nothing had happened.
—“Titusville (Penn.) Herald.”


﻿THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life usefully
and virtuously employed, and to trace our
progress in existence by such tokens as
excite neither shame nor sorrow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
    Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
    Address all business communications to
				       Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
	Gail Hamilton has the small-pox......Mrs.
Stowe has a new book called “Palmetto
Leaves.”......Laura Keam is candidate for
the office of State Librarian in Indiana.
Mr. Conklin is alluded to as the thin-haired
Apollo-Belvidere of the Senate......The Arch-
Duke Charles of Austria has lately completed
his seventieth year......The income tax in
India is to be abolished......Nellie Grant
will visit Europe again this year......The
Crown Prince of Germany is an artist......
Fred Douglas talks of going to live in Eu-
rope......A Terre Haut, Indiana, belle stands
six feet one inch in her stockings......Mrs.
Henry Wood has a new story entitled “The
Master of Greyhounds”.......Barnum lately
had his pockets picked and a diamond pin
stolen......The balance of trade against the
United States last year was in round num-
bers $118,000,000......Michigan produced 118 1/2
pairs of boy twins during 1870, the other
half was a girl......A St. Louis paper says
that fashionable wedding trips in Chicago
consist of a foot race to the nearest
divorce court......The Japanese Embassy was
received with military honors at Calais......
The Sisters of Notre Dame have offered
their services as nurses at the small-pox
hospital in Boston......A premium was
offered at a late fair in Montgomery, Ala.,
for the “young woman who would make
the best wife for a poor man.”......The new
head-quaters of the Pullman Palace Car
Company, in Chicago, are finished and
occupied......Powell’s new painting of Per-
ry’s Victory has been placed in the Capitol
at Washington......A woman in Delaware
recently died at the age of 72, after serving
fifty years in one family as a farm hand.
The lecture field will soon be abandoned by
Olive Logan....Froude’s return to England
was much sooner than he expected.........
Oysters are being taken from Norfolk, Va.,
to be planted on the British coast......Ice at
St. Paul has been fourteen feet thick......
Chicago lost 800 horses by the distemper.
......Connecticut has 114 Baptist churches.
A locomotive shop in Russia employs 4,000
men......Small-pox is spreading in New
England......Brooklyn, Long Island, had
twenty-six fires in December......Lake
George was frozen over in December last, the
third time in thirty years at so early a date.
......Wisconsin is said to be more than two
million dollars in debt.....Lancaster, N. H.,
has had a touch of 42 degrees below zero......
The University at Geneva has, in a gentle-
manly manner, opened its doors to women.
......Philadelphia proposes a tower 1,000
feet high, to illuminate the grounds of the
great Centennial Exposition......The Chicago
public library is kept in a large iron water-
tank......A monster nettle of Australia
grows to the height of forty feet....Yale
College is to have a new chapel to cost
$100,000......The Boston flats are being filled
up with rubbish from the burned buildings.
......Massachusetts has $184,797,313:92 in
her savings’ banks......It is said that free
use of the Atlantic cable has been offered to
the Smithsonian Institute......Ohio men get
fined for opening their wives’ letters......
During the past year, within the limits of
the United States, 7,478 miles of railroad
have been completed, and 6,514 miles put
under construction, making a total of 13,992
miles on which work has been done.........
New Jersey has thirty-three savings banks.
......The abreviatory letters, M. C. for Mem-
ber of Congress, may now be appropriately
transversed, and read C. M. for Creditors
Mobilier......The amount of bonds which
the Government issued to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, is pronounced $27,237,512
currency, bearing interest at the rate of 6
per cent per annum......Comodore J. D. Mc-
Kenny, of the United States Navy, lately
died, sixty-six years old, and leaving
property valued at more than $100,000......
Miss Rothschild, a daughter of the well
known family, was married in London, on
the 12th of February, to Mr. Elliott of New
York......Another Arizona diamond hunter
comes to Virginia City with several pounds
of what are pronounced “geuine rubies.”......
The President of Harvard, Mr. Elliott, has
given up his own residence to a student
who is down with the small-pox......Ken-
tucky wants to establish a law to have
separate schools for its white children and
colored ones.....Rose Porro, arrested in
Naples for child murdering, has confessed
the terrible crime of having starved and
poisoned, as near as she can recollect, about
forty infants, to satisfy her greed for money.
......More money is said to be made in
America by the cheap story-weeklies than
by the entire daily press.......Frauds, law-
suits, and false telegrams are so common
that they no longer create the slightest
surprise.
......A notorious Corsican—bandit, Antonio
Suzzoni, who has four times been
sentenced to be hanged and each time made
his escape, once from the very scaffold, was
lately shot and killed......Two gentlemen
in Virginia, Nevada, have adopted a plan
for prospecting for ore, similar to that em-
ployed in sinking artesian wells......A young
lady in Indiana, a few days since, fell into
the fire in a fainting fit, and burned to
death before the accident was discovered.
......Tennie C. Clafflin has lost her Colonel-
ship......Ben Butler is said to write sympa-
thetic letters to Mrs. Woodhull......Speaking
of the Credit Mobilier, a contemporary says,
“Who steals will lie!”....Newbern, N. C.,
eats shad at $1:80 per pair......In some
portions of France and Spain Woman’s
Rights are wonderfully recognized; she may
chop her own wood, fodder her husband’s
stock, and all that sort of thing, besides
doing the house-work......Colorado has
seven daily papers, six more than Florida.
......The euphonious name of a suburb of
Dubuque is “Dirty Holland.”


﻿NEED FOR COURAGE AND UNITY.

    To believe, or even to know a thing, no mat-
ter how important, amounts to very little
unless that which is believed can be tested, or
the knowledge existing be put to use. It is
true faith which gives a person courage to
speak or act in defense of right, at the risk of
being considered unpopular; to be honest,
though it bring but poverty and neglect; to be
loyal, though misjudged, misrepresented and
frowned upon; to stand firm and steadfast for
the truth, though all is dark, save where the
thought of God and hope of brighter days shed
one small ray of light—just enough to keep the
soul from sinking utterly. True faith gives
strength and heart to act, even in the face of op-
position; to tell the truth, however harsh it may
seem, if necessary. Though friendships be turned
to gall, though kindred desert and cherished
ones turn away in derision—still, true faith
will have the power to stand, and even walk
into the wilderness, if so directed by the voice
of God.
    When has there ever been a time since the
“Morning Stars sang together,” when to
exercise faith in the true and living God, and 
to manifest that faith by its legitimate repre- 
sentative—earnest work in the behalf of virtue 
and integrity—has not aroused the ire of Satan
and those who do his work?  Yet, when ever 
was the world so full of corruption, so crimsoned
with crime, so fully ripe in iniquity as at the
present time? When ever was unity among
the Saints of God so requisite as now, when all
the powers of the Evil One seem to be arrayed
in arrogance and stubborn, jealous enmity
against the cause of right and justice?
    Mothers should be united in teaching to the
youth who look to them for aid and direction,
the principles of everlasting truth; and the
young should be as one in seeking after that
faith and knowledge and divine revelation,
which will keep them safe from falling into
temptation, and give them the courage to
think and to act in spite of the taunts and
jeers of the vain and wicked.  The Saints
should begin to see that the unity which they
have been long counseled and urged to adopt, is
highly necessary to their safety and their
peace.

	HISTORY REPEATING ITSELF.

    Some eighteen centuries ago the world
saw the spectacle of the most powerful
nation on the earth attempting to crush out a
handful of believers in a new faith. That
power was Rome; that faith was the Gospel, as 
revealed by the Savior of mankind.  Pagan
Rome had no objections to the few who be-
lieved in Christ elevating him to a niche in the
Pantheon among their other deities, and being
recognized as one of the gods to whom temples 
were reared; but would not acknowledge, nor
permit others to proclaim, his superiority to
the deities before whom the Romans bowed in 
reverence. And edicts went forth to compel
the Christians to sacrifice to the Pagan deities,
or to inflict upon those that refused the severest 
penalties. And not alone on account of religion 
were those edicts to be enforced, for as one 
doctrine of the Christian faith was that their
Lord would come as a Messiah to deliver Israel 
and establish his Kingdom, this was held to be 
treason against Rome, punishable with death. 
So the Christians were hunted like wolves,
were thrown into the arena to combat with
wild beasts, were crucified, tortured in the
most horrible manner, and martyred, to satisfy
the vengance of those whodemanded that they
should turn away from the faith they had
received, deny Christ, and acknowledge the
supremacy of Rome and the gods worshipped
by the Romans.
    People now look back to those terrible 
seasons of persecution as presented on the
pages of history, that the Christians had to
pass through, and thank God that such scenes 
cannot be enacted now; that  people, especially
in this enlightened Republic, are not persecuted
for conscience’ sake; and, perhaps in the next
breath, will urge the passage by Congress of 
some proscriptive measure against the Latter-
day Saints. Point out to them the incon-
sistency of their so doing, and they will appear
amazed.  It is not the religion of the Latter-
day Saints that they are opposed to; oh, no!
But they object to "a theocratic govermment”
—that is, a government where God rules; they


object to the “absurd idea” of there now being
Prophets and Apostles; and they object to
the Celestial order of marriage, as it has been
revealed in this dispensation. In fact, these
people are willing the “Mormons” should
believe just as they please, it being understood
that such belief will be in accordance with the
views entertained by these very consistent
individuals as to what forms a proper kind of
belief. The Second Adventists, like the ancient
Christians, believe in the Second Coming of
the Lord Jesus Christ, and but little is said of
it; but the Latter-day Saints believe the same
thing, and they are accused of teaching trea-
sonable doctrines, in consequence.
	Viewed in the light of calm, philosophic
and unprejudiced reflection, when the attempt
is made by the United States, to-day, to compel
Latter-day Saints to change their religious be-
lief, discard doctrines held sacred, repudiate
their Prophets and Apostles, and deliberately
shut the gates of communication opened by
the Almighty between the heavens and the
earth, at the risk of imprisonment, despoiling
of property and perhaps death, then this
Republic aims at accomplishing what Rome
tried to do through many bitter and bloody
persecutions, and failed. Nor are we exagger-
ating the prospect.  Were some of the bills
lately introduced in Congress to become law,
and the desired power be conferred on certain
men in this Territory, it would be stretched
until the gallows would rise up, black and
ghastly, against the sunlight of heaven, and
they would compass, if possible, the death of
some of the best men in the community, for
alleged crimes which they never commit-
ted, yet, really for religion’s sake.  But so
far the Almighty has preserved His people;
yet, that history is repeating itself, is none the
less clear.  Here we have the mightest power
on earth—for with its boundless resources and
rapidly growing population this country is so
—having its authority directed by evil-minded
and pitiless bigots to crush out the people that
pioneered and settled this vast interior region;
and the cry goes up "Root out the Mormons
from Utah." Wiser men, better men, the more
conservative element of society, even if they
cannot coincide with the belief of the Latter-
day Saints, deprecate all such proscriptive and
extreme measures as are urged.  But the fanat-
ical class is active, and the numerous class does
not reflect while the conservative element is qui-
escent; and the whole nation ts permitting
itself to be driven to persecution, to the destruc-
tion of religious liberty, and to the overthrow
of republican principles, unless the best citizens
of the country bestir themselves to avert the
danger.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Utah question and the woman question
should change corners during one session of
Congress.
    IT IS worth noteing, that the heaviest snow-
storm which has fallen in this valley for years
commenced on Monday night last, 24th ult.,
and continued until Wednesday morning.  A
very large amount of snow fell during the time.
    PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young has returned
from Southern Utah, where he has spent
the winter so far. It is gratifying to state that
his health is good, and that he enjoyed himself
very much while south; while the Saints there
appreciated his society.
    WE LEARN from a private communica-
tion from Fountain Green, Sanpete County,
that considerable sickness in those parts is
occasioned by a disease which some pronounce
Small-pox. Our correspondent had heard of
no deaths resulting from it at the time of writ-
ing.
    THROUGH COURTESY of President Mrs. Mary
I. Horne, of this city, and President Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden, we are enabled to fur-
nish our readers in this number of the
EXPONENT, with two highly interesting
communications from “the Representative of
the Ladies of Utah, abroad"—Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
    THE EXPONENT has once stated that all
communications, addressed to its columns, to
receive attention must be accompanied by the
signature of the writer.  Again it becomes
necessary for us to request contributors to send
us their names—not for publication, except
they desire it—as was before stated, but because
it is proper for us to know who our correspond-
ents are.
    THE PALESTINE party, when last heard from,
were at Naples, Italy, on January 29th, and
were to leave the next morning for Egypt.
On the 27th they visited the excavation of
Pompei, buried for eighteen centuries; the
next day they visited Herculaneum, also buried
at the same time by an eruption of Vesu-
vius; and on the 29th they ascended the
burning mountain, President George A. Smith
being carried up in a chair, and looked down
the awful crater which has so often belched
destruction on the towns and villages at its
base.
    DURING THE week between the 15th and 22nd
of last month two deaths occurred, news of which
was sent all through the Territory, and from
which our young people, particularly the male
portion of the youth of our communities, may
draw striking examples of a highly beneficial
character. We refer to the dreadful, horrifying 
doom of the outlaw and murderer, young Ben-
son, of Logan; and the calm, hopeful, holy
death of the trusty servant and follower of
God, Major William Pitt, of this city.  Of the
former, little need be said; the gloomy circum-
stances connected with a life so dark, a death
so terrible, stand without comment, a fearful
warning to persons of unrestrained passions, or
those who are given to vicious habits.  But a
death and funeral like that of Elder Pitt, can
only be pronounced a triumph, for which, it
was worth living an honest, virtuous useful
life. To witness such a gathering of friends,
and to listen to the cheerful, light-producing
testimonies of inspired men on such an occa-
sion, bring up the hopeful thoughts of one of
old, “Let me live the life of the righteous,
and die like this just man.”


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    As a lover of Truth, I take great pleasure
in advocating the same. I have been in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
twenty-two years, and have had much
experience in that time.  It is over twenty
years since I left father, mother, brothers
and sisters for the Gospel.  I am a believer
in polygamy, have lived in it sixteen years
and have never once wished to be out of it.
I thank God my Heavenly Father, for His
goodness in enlightening my mind to know
the Truth when I heard it; and that I have
embraced it.  And I do know that the Lord
has heard and answered my prayers many
times.  I take the EXPONENT and like it
much; think two dollars well spent in sub-
scribing for it, and would not be without it
for anything.
						      M. E. W.
Salt Lake City.


﻿DIVERSIONS.

	A RISING man—A lamplighter.
	SHOCKING—A magnetic battery.
	HOW to serve a good dinner—eat it.
	A “YOUNG SHAVER.”—A barber’s boy.
	A TRUISM.—An expensive wife makes a
pensive husband.
	BOYS are like vinegar: the more “mother”
there is in them, the sharper they become.
	THERE are some things it won’t do to
trifle with—for instance, a woman’s opinion
and the business end of a wasp.
	WHAT is the difference between a mur-
derous attack and pig killing? One is
assault with intent to kill, and the other is a
kill with intent to salt.
	SOMEBODY inquiring at the Springville, Ill.
post-office for a letter for Mike Howe, re-
ceived the gruff answer that there was no
letter there for anybody’s cow.
	AN exchange tantalizes its readers with
this atrocity: “Have you heard of the man
who got shot?” “Got shot? No; how did
he get shot?” He bought them.
	A YOUNG lady who was rebuked by her
mother for kissing her intended, justified
the act by quoting the passage: “'Whatso-
ever you would that men should do unto
you, do you even so unto them.”
	A LITTLE four-year old sat alone in the
parlor, when a new doctor came suddenly
to see his sick mother. The doctor naturally
wished to make his acquaintance, and
asked, “How old are you, my son?” “I’m
not old—I’m new,” said the boy.
	THE man who sat up all night weighing
a ton of coal with a pair of steelyards, and
by the pailful, to see that he had received
full weight, thought he was a-head a few
pounds until he remembered that he had
not deducted the weight of the pail.
	A LARGE room in the accountant’s office
at the East India House was divided into
boxes or compartments, in each of which
six clerks were accustomed to sit, of whom
Lamb once was one. They were called
“Compounds,” and, the meaning of the
word being asked one day, Lamb explained
it as a “collection of simples.”
	“WHAT are you bellowing about?” cried
an irate mother at the foot of the stairs one
evening, after her two boys had been put
to bed. “Please, mother,” said bellowing
Bill, “Jim wants half the bed.” “Well,”
said she, “let him have half the bed and
you take the other half.” “Yes, mother,”
said Bill, “but he wants his half out of the
middle, and make me sleep on both sides of
him.”
	THE day before Washington’s birthday,
in February last, a lady teacher, in giving
notice of the coming holiday to her pupils,
said something about the good Washington,
and then asked the question:
	“Why should we celebrate Washington’s
birthday more than “mine?”
	“Because he never told a lie! shouted a
little boy.
	This was rather hard on the teacher, but
the boy did not see it.


JUDGE POLAND'S Congressional Credit
Mobilier investigating committee, in its
report, laments the painful conflict of testi-
mony—which is a mild way of saying
perjury among prominent politicians. No 
wonder people are asked to admire the
lofty character of the modern gentleman 
who makes law a profession and polices a
trade.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW

			Milan, Italy, Jan. 1st, 1873.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Dear Sister:—
	How very changefull are the events of
human life! One year ago, the idea of
addressing you from Italy at the commence-
ment of this year would have seemed almost
an impossibility. But here I am, a long
distance from what to me is the dearest
spot on earth—the home of the Saints of the
living God. The lapse of time, since part-
ing with you, and the many dear ones
associated with you in Ogden, has been a
constant routine of change combined with
deep interest. Our party consists of Presi-
dent George A. Smith, Elders Lorenzo
Snow, Paul A. Shettler, Feramorz Little,
George Dunford, Thomas Jennings, Miss
Clara Little and your humble servant. So
far as society is concerned, we are indepen-
dent wherever we are, and enjoy ourselves
as well as possible for people abroad, feeling
assured of the faith and prayers of the
righteous; and I assure you that I never for-
get a tribute of gratitude to those through
whose love, kindness and generous energies
the privilege of this tour is extended to me.
I have, so far, enjoyed it far beyond my
anticipations. Two months and one week,
and I am between seven and eight thousand
miles from home, having traveled through
England—visited the most prominent cities
in Holland and Belgium; and in France the
cities of Paris, Versailles, Lyons, Marseilles
and Nice. After leaving Nice we enter the
dominions of Victor Emanuel—our first
stopping place in Italy, according to our
programme, would be Genoa, but in conse-
quence of heavy rains having made a break
in the railroak, we stopped one night in
Rome, and went the next day to Genoa, the
birth-place of Christopher Columbus. From
Genoa we went to Turin and came thence to
this place.
	The national religion, we found since
leaving England to be Catholic. I had
never witnessed the service until in Brus-
sels. This being New Year’s Day, “High
Mass”' was performed in the grand “Cathe-
dral of Milan,” which we attended. The
Cathedral is a magnificent Gothic structure,
containing fourteen chapels; it is, by many,
considered the finest in the world. We
were informed that the service on the
occasion was of the highest order; certainly
much of it was sensless form and unmean-
ing, though dazzling display. I enjoyed the
singing and the sweet music of the two
organs, which played alternately. The
Archbishop, who represented the Pope in
all respects except that his hand instead of
his toe was kissed, was most gorgeously
dressed—bearing, at times, upon his head a
supurb mitre, and at other times, according
to the requirements of the service, it was
taken off by an officiate and held until again
required and then replaced. The burning
of incense was profuse. Great numbers,
variously attired, officiated on the occasion,
and the congregation was immense. The
services were performed in Latin and it is
presumable, as little comprehended by the
majority of the church members as by us.
I readily understood that many of the people
present were, like ourselves, spectators.
But when I looked upon the congregation and
saw some crossing themselves, some rever-
ently kneeling and others bowing, first to a
golden crucifix, then to the Archbishop, my
heart responded—How long, O Lord, shall
these, thy children be bound in the dwarf-
ing chains of traditional superstition and
ignorance? It is true the powers of earth
are shaking, but at present, l can see no hope
for millions of people under the training of
the Mother of harlots, and the influence of
Priestcarft, but through the ordinances for
the dead. Such were my reflections while
I remained a spectator in the midst of a
great multitude, in the stately and superb
Cathedral of Milan, which is described as
being four hundred and eighty-six feet in
length, and its total breadth three hundred
and fifty feet.
	As we approached Marseilles, the face of
the country, which had been level, assumed
a very uneven appearance, hills approximat-
ing to the dimensions of mountains; and for
the first time on our route, we saw groves
of olive trees, and occasionally oranges; and
when we reached the Mediterranean, they
became very common, ornamenting the
cities along the coast—the orange and lemon
trees being loaded with golden fruit; some
of them, very large, must have been planted
long ago.
	Our present location is inland from the
sea, and the olive, orange and lemon have
all disappeared, save as the orange is placed
on our dinner table every evening for desert.
On this side the Atlantic, I have not seen
apples that would compare with those of our
mountain home—most of those we have
seen are very ordinary.
							January 2nd.
	Yesterday was rainy—to-day being favor-
able, we ascended five hundred and twelve
marble steps, which brought us to the plat-
form of the great cupola of the Cathedral
above mentioned, where we had a most
delightful view of the whole city; and but
for a fog which encircled the distant horizon,
we might have seen the surrounding chains
of snow-capped mountains in the distance.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Venice.
	Yours with love.
							Eliza R. Szow.

						Venice, Italy,
							Jan. 5th, 1873.
Beloved Sister Horne:—
	We arrived here on the 3rd, the same
evening I received a note with your signa-
ture attached. In acknowledging the
receipt I would give expression to my feel-
ings were it in my power to do so, but I
leave you to imagine. 	*	*	*	*		
Venice is a very interesting city, both on
account of its history and its singular loca-
tion, Approaching it, for a considerable
distance, the railroad track is laid on artificial
ground, with water lying on each side.
When we arrived at the commodious depot,
gondolas were waiting to take us to “Grand
Hotel Victoria;” and with two gondolas for
our persons—four in each—and one for our
baggage, we landed on the threshold of our
hotel.
	This city is said to have been built on
seventy-two islands. Pedestrians can go into
all parts of the city, but gondolas instead of
horses and carriages are used, the people
having no other means for riding. Yester-
day afternoon, our whole party took a gon-
dola ride, and visited a factory for the
manufacture of glass, where they were
making artificial eyes for men and animals,
together with every fancy ornamental thing
imaginable. The most beautiful looking-
glass I ever saw, with a white glass frame
most delicately wrought, was prized at three
thousand five hundred francs; We were
told that three of the kind were in America,
purchased in Venice.
	Our intelligence from Salt Lake has not
been very profuse. The only paper received
from there is the Salt Lake “Herald,”
which comes occasionally and is a rich treat
to us all. Arrangments are made with brother
Carrington to forward all trans-Atlantic
mail matter from Liverpool to different
points as President Smith designates to him
from time to time. *	*	*	*	By the
“Herald” I learned the sad news of the
death of your lovely, precious daughter. I
can think of no one better prepared to go—
although so young she was ripened for a
higher state of existence. For her there is
no cause for mourning, but when I think of
her father and mother, her young, bereaved
husband, the loss to her brothers and sisters
and the loss to the community where her
noble example has had a purifying influence;
my heart overflows with sympathy and
sorrow. How you will miss her! But
trained as you have been in the Gospel of
Jesus, you know where to look for consola-
tion. God alone can breathe comfort to the
deeply stricken heart. When I think of the
bereaved ones—I feel to mourn, but when I
think of the pure, noble, lovely Julia, whose
earthly mission is so soon accepted, she
spared a longer period of toil, struggle and
suffering, my feelings are buoyant and my
imagination, if I may call it so, follows her
triumphant spirit to the happy abodes of
purity and eternal peace. May the daughters
of Zion imitate her worthy example? God
bless you my dear sister and fill your heart
with his comforting Spirit.
					   Eliza R. Snow.


﻿[For the Exponent. 
		MORAL TEMPERANCE.

	What is temperance? It is a question
often asked and answered by each person
according to his individual views. And 
there is a mental as well as a physical 
side to the question.
	Abstaining from intoxicating liquors, is 
one kind of temperance, but is not broad
enough to comprise the whole. There is
also a temperance in diet, a temperance in
labor, a temperance in speech, and a temper-
ance in thought. But there is one word
which will comprise its full meaning, and
that is—moderation.
	Moderation is the true law of life. "When
this just boundary is passed, then the action
or attribute degenerates into unworthiness;
as a lean traveling to a fixed point of the
compass, may pass the boundary of distance
and lessen instead of increasing the space
between himself and his starting point.
	Thus, “Eat but little” is a wise precept;
and, followed with due moderation, will 
give its disciple health, strong nerves, a clear
intellect and a cheerful, happy temper; and,
used thus is true temperance. But it is 
plain to any child, that carried to excess, it 
will weaken the parts even unto death. 
	Speech is a physical power, and how often
are we exhorted to use it temperately.
The person who uses mild, temperate 
language, is far more readily believed than 
one who raves.
	And in the exercise of the mind, if we are 
moderate, we are temperate. The pursuit 
of knowledge is most noble and praise- 
worthy; it develops our mental powers to
great strength and activity; but over-exert
them, and reason is hurled from her throne,
or the golden thread of life is snapped asunder.
	So it is with the moral nature. Cultivate 
any of the emotions prudently, and they
will be as hands and feet to us, or even as 
wings to bear us to realms of happiness; but
press them too warmly, or pursue them too 
eagerly and they wither in our grasp or 
elude us entirely, leaving behind miserable
caricatures to mock us.
	Thus, humility is a heavenly grace in
man or woman, but beyond a certain degree,
its abject and contemptible.
	Pride, that pride which disdains to stoop


to anything low and mean, is a most en-
obling virtue; but follow it beyond the verge
of moderation, and it degenerates into
haughtiness and even vanity.
	Love, that heavenly radiance which glori-
fies the meanest surroundings, lifts the
weakest of mortals to a level with the
angels, nerves the most timid to do and dare
where the bravest might shrink, and, like
the "little leaven which leavens the whole,”
purifies and sanctifies hearts which nothing
else could reclaim, is a name sorely misap-
plied. Alas, that it should be so! but many,
by giving unrestrained liberty to all the
emotions which it awakens in their peculiar
natures, and pursuing the object with head-
long speed, miss it altogether and grasp,
instead—passion; that adder to sting the
heart that warms it.
	Hate when kept within due bounds and
directed against sin, but not sinners, may be
a faithful pilot to warn us of moral rocks and
shoals; but once give it command of the
bark of life, and prejudice, obstinacy and
revenge are soon placed in high positions,
and the wages they award are misery and
ruin.
	We are even told that "Fobearance ceases
to be a virtue” at times.
	And ambition, when directed in proper
channels and pointed to a noble aim, sustains
the human heart through many and bitter
reverses, strengthens hope and patience,
rouses the latent energies of the soul and
nerves it to brave battle with difficulty; but
it must be subjected to the rules of temper-
ance or it will degenerate into a base greed
of power or notoriety, and, like a consuming
flame, devour every gentle impulse, kind-
ness, mercy, love and even justice; grasping
all advantages without remorse or shame.
	Without the aid of temperance, the soft
and gentle attributes of the soul would lead
us to driveling imbecility; and the strong,
aspiring sentiments to recklessness, ruin,
torment.
	How urgent, then, the necessity for culti-
vating temperance in all things, physical,
mental and moral; that just discrimina-
tion between right and wrong, which shall
lead us onward and upward, temperately,
moderately, steadily, until we conquer all
weaknesses of the flesh and mortality and
so win the fadeless crown of immortality
which is—pefection.
							L. L. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

		WHY WASH MONDAY?

	"THERE'S ne’er a bit of comfort took
	Upon the washing day"
Has been verified in thousands of homes
where steam, suds, confusion, a “picked up”
dinner and cross looks, if not words, are
always the accompaniements of that dreaded
Monday. But why do you select Monday as
the washing day? If you have no better
reason than because your grandmother
always did, it would be about as sensible for
your husband to go to mill with the grist in
one end of the bag and a stone in the other, to
balance, because that was his grandfather’s
way. If you keep the Sabbath and do no
work on that day that can be dispensed with,
you will find more to do on Monday than
any other day of the week. Then the
Saturday’s baking has vanished and needs
to be renewed, and there are always little
things to be done preparatory to washing
—garments to be finished or mended and
clothes to be put to soak.
	Tuesday is a much more covenient day for
washing, and the work will be rendered
lighter by the preparations of the previous
day--preparations which ought not to be made
on the Sabbath. Then don’t exert yourself
too much for the sake of getting the washing
done by some particular hour. I know
whereof I speak; for haven’t I arisen while
it was yet night, just late enough to escape
the sin of the good deacon’s wife, who
washed on Sunday, and accomplished the
washing before breakfast; sustained through
the unaccustomed hours of labor, and for the
loss of sleep, by the thought that my long
line of snowy clothes would excite the envy
and admiration of my neighbors when they
first looked out in the morning. Then be-
cause the clothes were dried, spinkled, and
folded in the morning, I have done the
ironing in the afternoon, and have finished
that Monday’s performances by going to bed
and staying there the rest of the week sick.
	If you cannot get the washing done in
time to have the clothes dried the same day,
leave them in the rinsing-water till the
next; or if your washings are very large,
take two days for it,—anything rather than
have the washing-day so filled with hard
work and confusion for which the clean
clothes it produces are no compensation, nor
to the tired-out house-wife for the severe
labors of that ever to-be-dreaded day.—
Moore’s “Rural New Yorker.”
	ARSENICAL POISONING.—Persons inhabit-
ing rooms, the walls of which are covered
with paper colored with Schele’s green, or
in which are kept objects of natural history
preserved with arsenical preparations, are
alike liable to suffer from poisoning. Arsen-
ious gases are developed by the reaction of
arsenious acid upon the organic compound
with which it comes in contact, and the air
and dust of the room become dangerously
charged with poisonous matter.
	A CHEAP DISINFECTANT.—The following
is highly commended by those who have
used it:—Dissolve a bushel of salt in a barrel
of water, and with the salt water slack a
barrel of lime, which should be wet enough
to form a kind of paste. For the purpose of
a disinfectant, this home-made chloride of
lime is nearly as good as that purchased at
the shops and drug stores.    Use it freely
about sinks, cellars, gutters, and outhouses,
and in this way prevent sickness, suffering,
and expense.
	TO COLOR SHEEP SKINS.—Unslacked
lime and litharge equal parts, mixed to a
thin paste with water, will color buff—
several coats will make it a dark brown; by
adding a little ammonia and nitrate of silver
a fine black is produced. Terra japonica
will impart a “tan color” to wool, and the red
shade is deepened by sponging with a solu-
tion of lime and water, using a strong
solution of alum water to “set” the colors; 1
part crystallized nitrate silver, 8 parts car-
bonate ammonia, and 1 1/2 parts of soft water
dyes brown; every additional coat darkens
the color until a black is obtained.
	LEMON TWISTS.—Take a pound of flour,
half a pound of butter and twelve ounces of
loaf sugar, with enough essence of lemon to
flavor and a teaspoonfull sal volatile; pour
in beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten
the paste; roll it out, cut it into strips, plait
them together in threes, brush the outside
with milk, strew beaten sugar upon the tops
and bake the twists upon buttered tins about
twenty minutes. Grated lemon peel and
juice may be substituted for the essence.


﻿BRET[-] Harte, according to the Chicago
Journal, was arrested in Boston for an un-
paid tailor’s bill.
	MRS. Samuel Colt makes $800,000 a year
by the sale of revolvers. She supplies the
New York markets liberally.


﻿	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A GRAND central depot is to be built in
Boston.
	St. Louis erected 1,500 new buildings
last year.
	THE Maine Agricultural College has 71
students.
	THE new chapel for Yale College is to cost
$100,000.
	BRAZIL is the best customer for New-
foundland codfish.
	THE ice crop on the Hudson will reach
1,500,000 tons this season.
	SENATOR Patterson has been offered the
Presidency of the Ohio Agricultural College.
	SAN Francisco has made 7,000 kangaroo
hides into fine boots.
	“ZION'S Herald,” of Boston, has celebrated
its fiftieth birthday.
	THE present is the worst hunting season
England has known for years.
	SOME 500 horses have been clipped by
machinery in Boston this Winter.
	THE number of emigrants who left Liver-
pool for America in 1872 was 164,000.
	MR. Poole, the famous London tailor, is
about to retire from business with £500,000.
	MME. de Perinot has left 20,000 francs to
the French Academy to found a prize for
astronomical researches.
	INDIANA farmers band together and run
saur kraut factories on the same principle
that cheese factories are conducted.
	OVER thirty brave and sensible girls in the
high school of Portland have resolved to
discard overskirts, laces, jewelry, and other
expensive articles of dress while attending
school.
	CONNECTED with Mr. Spurgeon’s Sunday 
school, in London, is a Bible class, taught by
Mrs. Lavinia Harkness, which enrolls nine 
hundred women, and has an average attend-
ance of over five hundred.
	MRS. General Sanderson, of Washington,
Ohio, owns a box, said to have been brought
to America by Cortez, when he came to con-
quer Mexico. It Is inlaid with ivory, and
its ago is thought to be about four hun-
dred years.
	Fisk University, the colored educational
institution at Nashville, Tenn., has profited
so largely by its band of “Jubilee singers,”
who have been traveling through the North,
that it will erect a fine college building from
the proceeds.
	A GERMAN Countess, who is an earnest
Catholic, has made a curious vow, to present
to the Pope every year a purse of gold coin
and a baptized Jew. The first of these
offerings was made a short time since, the
Jew being made a member of the church at
Basilica, with imposing ceremonies.
	SOUTH African papers tell of a farm of
240,000	acres, on which is a flock of 10,000
sheep—besides 10,000 Angora goats—which
are said to be far more profitable there than
sheep, and there is a promise of a rapid
extension of these flocks. The Angora goat
wool, as produced there, is much finer than
that of the sheep.
	FRANCE not only lost provinces, armies,
and an immense sum of money through the
late war with North Germany, but by the
session of Metz, she lost a military library,
of which there is not the equal left in the
Republic. This celebrated institution con-
tained 40,000 printed volumns, many of
which were extremely rare, besides numer-
ous manuscripts and drawings, many of
which were of a highly precious character.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE SEX.

	GENERAL Schenck’s youngest daughter is
to marry an English nobleman.
	M. M. POMEROY’S first wife offers the La
Crosse Opera House for sale.
	TWO American female physicians, both
from Chicago, are practising in Edinburgh.
	MADAME Hyacinthe is “at home” Satur-
day evenings at her residence in Brussels.
	QUEEN Victoria’s signature is elegantly
formed, with each letter beautifully cut.
	MR. Greeley’s daughters are spending the.
winter in New York, with their aunt, Mrs.
Cleavland.
	MISS Lydia A. Whitney has purchased
one-half of the "Presque Isle (Me.) Sun-
rise."
	THE mother of Rubinstein, the pianist, is
a celebrated music-teacher in Moscow, and
said to be very wealthy.
	MISS Hosmer is said to have sufficient
orders to keep her busy with chisel and
mallet for the next five or six years.
	SALLIE Ada Vance has become editor of
the Lexington, Mississippi “Advertiser.”
Her Salutatory is said to be well written.
	THE Crown Princess of Germany is mak-
ing a design for a monument, to be erected
on the field of Weissenburg by the officers of
he third army.
	A FEMALE pharmaceutist, Miss S. M
Harding, has been appointed Dispenser to
the Hospital for Women, at Birmingham,
England.
	CELIA Burleigh says that one of the most
singular things in woman’s nature is the
naturalness with which they gravitate to-
wards “cussedness” in the opposite sex.
	A KEROSENE lamp exploded at Rush
River, Wisconsin, recently, a piece of the
glass striking a young lady on the throat,
cutting it deeply, and causing speedy death.
	A MAN at Janesville, Minnesota, was re-
cently beaten by his wife. The woman was
arrested and fined fifty dollars for the assault,
which the husband was obliged to pay.
	A MODERN writer says:	“In Germany,
woman has a sad life, she seems to be of a
lower order than man. It is nothing but
work, work, work, for her, while the men
are visiting Beer Gardens.”
	MISS Lena Clark, daughter of a banker in
Newton, Iowa, walked seven miles from
the Junction to Jefferson, when the therm-
ometer marked thirty degrees below zero,
because the train was belated. She holds
the position of cashier in the bank.
	THE Swiss “Times” reports that Mont
Blanc has been successfully ascended by
three English young ladies, named Murray,
aged respectively twenty-one, seventeen and
fourteen. The youngest of the party a girl
of twelve, had to relinquish the attempt.
	MISS Lizzie Duffer, Miss Alice Hagey and
Miss Kate January, at the Murfreesboro,
Tenn., Agricultural Fair contended for pre-
eminence In the high art of cookery, the
prize being a fine cooking stove. Each
young woman came at the appointed time,
provided with provisions of her own selec-
tion, and in turn took charge of the cook
room. Miss January was the winner.
	LASt summer a party of girls were
directed by the driver of a street car in
Boston to get on by the front platform,
although getting on in that way is contrary
to the rules of the company. One of the
girls was thrown under the wheels and
severely injured. She brought suit against
the company and recovered $5,000 damages,
a verdict since confirmed by the Supreme
Court.


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.	
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make. 
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
				RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-			 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12 x 16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50		-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				  48 00

	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
				H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, 
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from 
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the 
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
  1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	    1 Copy six months.  $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00 	  10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1873. ﻿   No. 20.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS R. L. HOYT carries off the prize
awarded for excellent drawing in the Lon-
don Kensington Art-School; so the ladies
may "hurrah for our side" again.
	MISS KATIE Barton, of Boston, has in-
vented an improvement on sewing machines,
for the marking of sails, tents, awnings, etc.;
she should be acknowledged a representative
of women.
	REPUBLICAN Massachusetts refuses wo-
man the right to vote, by direct action of
the State Legislature. What about the
woman suffrage plank in the State Repub-
lican platform? 
	A YOUNG lady in Maine who had taken
no interest in the cause of woman suffrage,
has been converted to it by hearing it abused
by a young unmarried minister. Preachers
should be cautious how they arouse femi-
nine combativeness.
	SEVEN thousand women of St. Louis
petition the legislature of Missouri to repeal
the law licensing the social iniquity in St.
Louis. It would be better to compel the
men, under whose patronage the vice
flourishes, to take out licenses as well as the
women, who are often their victims.
	ONE CENT a day is to be contributed by
each lady member of the Congregational
churches in Iowa, for five years, with the
view of an endowment fund of $20,000 for
the female department of the State College.
The object is a laudable one, and worthy of
encouragement and success. 
	THE COMMITTEE to investigate charges
against U. S. Senator Patterson unanimously
reported a resolution that he be expelled
the Senate for corruption and perjury.
Grave as are the charges, thus unanimously
endorsed, the Senate has not yet expelled
Patterson. But it passed the Frelinghuysen
bill.
	EX-VICE PRESIDENT Colfax has delivered
several speeches lately to show how inno-
cent he was of the charges made against him
in regard to the Credit Mobilier business;
and he has succeeded in convincing a very
large number of people that he was guilty
as charged, while his friends, cling all the
closer to him. Perverse human nature!
	“AN OBJECT of interest” is what more
than one worthy (?) Utah office, provision
and raiment-seeker has been determined to
become, ere the offices should be all supplied
or Congress should adjourn; and ought they
not now to be satisfied? For this they have
nearly all succeeded in making of them-
selves-"simply this, and nothing more!”
	ON THE 26th of February a Convention
was held in New York for the purpose of
securing a Constitutional amendment,
acknowledging the existence of God in that
instrument. No better amendment could
be made than the adopting of the original
Constitution of the United States, which
has been utterly disregarded by many of
the descendants of its framers.
	IN A late discussion in Congress, on in-
creasing the pay of the members, General
Banks said, arguing in favor of increased
pay because of the increased price of living,
that it was Edward Everett's advice to him
"never to be separated from his family."
This or anything that would have a tendency
to reduce immorality among national legis-
lators and at the federal capital, would be a
public benefit.
	THE REV. J. D. Fulton regards polygamy
as far more scriptural than woman suffrage;
and the agitation of the latter, he alleges,
causes a great decrease in the number of
boy babies. This is a serious matter; for if
the theory be correct, the agitation will
have to be stopped by granting the right of
suffrage to the women or polygamy may
become compulsory in another generation
or so, to prevent the race from dying out.
	AMONG THE late applications for office we
note that of Mrs. Anne Savery, of Des
Monies, Iowa, who is a candidate for
United States Consul at Havre. How this
practical exhibition of woman’s rights would
take in France, should her application be
successful, it is difficult to say; but were
she to seek and obtain the same appoint-
ment for Kiel, or any other German town,
it certainly would not be relished by the
authorities and officials of "Fatherland."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Wash-
ington "Star" is of more than usual interest:
"Woman's rights have at length been
recognized in high quarters in England. A
department of the civil service, known as
the local govermment board, has just ap-
pointed a lady poor-law inspector at the
very handsome salary of $2,000 a year to
report upon the domiciles and the treatment
of children who are "boarded out," after
the system which is generally adopted in
Scotland. Mrs. Tassau Senior is the lady
upon whom this distinction has been con-
ferred.” 
	AN EASTERN paper says: "A bill has
been favorably reported to the New York
assembly to incorporate the Young Ladies'
Christian Association of the city of New
York. The object of this corporation is
stated to be the improvement of the
temperance, social, mental, moral and
religious condition in New York. The fifth
article forbids these ladies to manage their
property except with the consent of an advis-
ory committee, named in the charter, and
composed of ten men. The same section
prohibits the associated young ladies from
indulging in wine, whisky, ale or lager
beer, and from gambling in the rooms and
on the premises of the association."
	PRESIDENT GRANT was inaugurated with
great festivities on the 4th inst., the com-
mittee on inauguration having refused to
accede to the petition from certain parties
in the State of New York, urging that a
grand inauguration prayer meeting be held
instead of a ball. The idea of commingling
prayer and dancing is evidently not a
familiar one with the petitioners, any more
than with the inauguration committee.
When one reads the account of the festivi-
ties, the magnificence and the display of
wealth, the mind naturally wanders back to
the days of republican simplicity, and the
thought comes questioning where that
simplicity has gone, and whether such
splendors are not more fitting for an im-
perial court than for "a government of the
people, by the people, and for the people,"
which ours is supposed to be.
	TO HEAR some men talk it would seem
that the chief end of existence was to enjoy
the appetites, and that the greatest charms
of life were whisky and tobacco. On this
theory, the more disgusting and filthy they 
make themselves the happier they are; and
their course would indicate that they be-
lieved in the theory. Is it any wonder that
pure women would cling to a pure man who
shunned and despised such vile and degrad-
ing habits?
	THE SEASON for tourists and travelers will
soon commence, and clergymen will be
relieved for a time from their "arduous
labors" of preaching a couple of times in the
week, and furnished with money to take a
little rest and recreation. It is strange that
this class of men should be so troubled
with bronchitis; strange how women who
have to use the larynx and bronchial tubes
more, are not so easily affected; strange how
"Mormon" Elders, and editors, who work
infinitely harder, have so little solicitation
bestowed upon their health; and strange,
too, how there should be such great neces-
sity that clergymen should travel so much
for their personal benefit—at half rates on
the railroad. Oh, things are wonderfully
changed since the ancient Apostles of the
Savior fished all night for a living;
hawked their fish to market, themselves
barefooted; and then preached in the even-
ing! Who ever heard of Peter, James and
John; or of Brigham, Orson or Wilford in
these latter-days, being sent out on a tour
by steamship and cabin, for the benefit of
their health, and to seek relief from a
bronchial affection?
	THREE YOUNG ladies were lately mur-
dered, two in New Hampshire and one in
Maryland, under most revolting circum-
stances and in a  horrible manner. The
Maryland murderer subsequently threw
himself under a passing freight-train and
was crushed to death. The New Hampshire
one is now in prison awaiting his trial.
Such reports are almost of daily occurrence,
from large cities and country places; and
show that with all the progress made in art,
science and education, crime keeps pace
with the boasted advance of the age, if it
does not lead it. Were the self-proclaimed
philanthropists who are so anxious to con-
vert the people of Utah to a belief in the
necessity of vice, corruption, outrage and
bloodshed, to exert their influence towards
repressing crime nearer home they might
be of some service to society. And if they
wish us to pattern after the society in which
they are shining examples, it would be well
to present us with a pattern for which they
would not have just cause to hide their
faces in burning shame. But while un-
bridled passion, bloodthirstiness and brutal
desires are so rampant, we beg to be per-
mitted to work out our own social problem
in peace, and see if we cannot produce a
better condition of society than is to be
found anywhere else.


GREAT BRITAIN will send an artisan com-
mission of eighty members to Vienna.
	PROF. Tyndall will give all the money he
makes in this country to some scientific
institution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿


﻿ANSWER TO A VALENTINE.

			FROM J. R.

Dear Sir:—
	Your counsel wise and good,
Is kind, if never needed;
And being clearly understood
Shall be as strictly heeded.

I know 'twas said by Solomon,
“There is a time for all things;"
But 'tis not written, every one
Shall do b th great and small things:

And those who seek the world’s applause,
And love vain approbation;
Have not the spirit of the Cause
Of Truth, and true Salvation.

l know it were not wise to yield
To worldy, false ambition:
I'd labor in a richer field—
Fulfill a holier mission.	
							L. L.


F. R. Society Reports

		Mill Creek Ward 
			Salt Lake Co., Feb. 18, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—	
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held in the Ward-house on the 11th
inst., the word “Female” was dropped from
the name of the Society by unanimous
vote. This Society is in every way, in a
healthy and prosperous condition. We hold
our  meetings monthly, which are well
attended. In a short time we shall have
ready a very suitable hall for meetings and
the business operations of the Society,
		Rhoda Ann Miller, President,

			Salem, Utah County,
				February 16th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent;—
	The Salem Relief Society was organized
January 7th, 1869, with Mary E. Reed,
President; Mrs. Lucinda Jackman and Mrs.
Sarah W. Curtis, Counselors; Matilda P.
Killian, Secretary and Esther M. Reed,
Treasurer. During the four years since our
organization, our means has been very
limited, yet, we have been able to meet
every demand upon our charity. We have
thirty dollars in the Co-operative store, and
a little sum, (seventeen dollars) which we
are enlarging every week, to aid in gather-
ing the poor; then we still have in the
treasury, besides the above, cash and
property to the amount of one hundred and
twenty-two dollars. We are prospering and
feel to thank God for the wisdom and
knowledge that has enabled us, thus far, to
fill the mission that has been given us as
honorably as we have done. The sisters are
united in their efforts to do good and help
to build up the Kingdom of God upon the
earth that they may receive the reward of
the faithful.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.

		Newton, Cache Co., U. T.
			February 12th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	At a meeting of our Relief Society, held
January 3rd, 1873, a motion to have the
word “Female” dropped from the name,
according to Sister Eliza R. Snow’s sugges-
tion, was carried by a unanimous vote.
	Although our Society is not so forward as
others, our desire is to continue to do all
the good we can until circumstances will
admit of our doing more. Our settlement
is new; we have labored under various disad-
vantages. The means accumulated, has
been used in relieving the needy, and feed-
ing the Indians. We hope to be able to do
more in the future than we have done in
the past.
	Your valuable paper is much appreciated
here, and it is the expressed desire of many
to subscribe for it as soon as circumstances
will permit.
		Isadora Beck, President.
	A. M. Young, Secretary.

	The General Retrenchment meeting at
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this
city, Saturday, March 1st, was very well
attended. The spirit of unity and the desire
to improve in knowledge of a useful char-
acter appear to increase with the sisters.
And from the many impressive and sanguine
testimonies borne, it might well be inferred
that the doings of Congress at that critical
time, or other worldly missiles which might
be aimed to overthrow the Kingdom of the
great God, had but little weight on the
minds of the faithful daughters of Zion.

	Third Ward Relief Society,
		Provo City-, March 9th, 1873,
Dear Exponent:—
	At a meeting in November, our Society
voted unanimously to drop the word "Fe-
male,” and a report was at once forwarded,
together with money for four numbers of
the Exponent; which, owing to some mis-
take, carelessness or dishonesty in some
quarter, you did not receive,
	Our Society is doing well; our ward is
small and not well off, but we have no in-
digent poor. We give assistance occasionally,
but have no steady pensioners. We feel an
interest in the welfare of our excellent paper,
and in the rolling forth of the work of God.
	M. J. Tanner, President.

			WOMAN'S VOICE
Editor Exponent:—	
	Dear Sister:—I think it the duty of
mothers, who have been long in the Church,
to write for the instruction of their
daughters to give counsel to the young,
and try to impress them with the love of
chastity and goodness; to teach them not
to follow the vain fashions of the world, but
to seek to be prudent and temperate in all
their ways; not to covet the empty pleasures
and treasures of earth alone, but to secure
to themselves peace and joy everlasting—
the riches of eternity.
	We have examples among the mothers
in Israel worthy of imitation, and which, if
we follow, we shall not be led astray. I feel
that mothers should be awake to their duties
in training their children in the love of
truth and the ways of rectitude; and I pray
that the daughters of Zion may have wisdom
to so direct their offsprings that they may
have power over all evil and overcome the
ways of darkness.
				Sarah Roberts;
	Goshen.

				Springville,
					Feb. 20th, 1873.
	In looking over the Exponent my mind
has been led through many scenes, some of
joy and some of sorrow; and I find it con-
tains sympathy for every heart. It is a
heavenly work, when we can do so, to bind
up the broken heart. If we are rich in
knowledge, and God has blest us with the
light of His Holy Spirit to do good, it is
joy to us to seek out the depressed, the poor,
the widow and orphan and impart to them,
both of our heart’s sunshine and of our sub-
stance. The Gospel we have received
teaches us to be full of charity to mankind,
and let our love for each other flow as a
fountain of living waters. I can truly say
since I have been a member of the Relief
Society, it has been a school of improvement
to me, for which I thank God. True happi-
ness is offered to every faithful son and
daughter. If we live as peace-makers we
are filling our missions, if not, we live below
our calling and will be accountable for our
folly. If mothers will live in the light of
the Gospel they will have influence with
and great blessings for their children.
This the Lord requires at their hands. We
have the same fountain of light and intelli-
gence from which to gain a fullness of
the blessings of life, that has been enjoyed
by the Saints in every age, when God has
had a prophet to reveal His mind and will
to the children of men on earth. With an
experience of 31 years in the Church, I can
testify that the Gospel made known to
brother Joseph Smith, by the Angel that
John saw was to come forth in the last days,
is true; and the powers of darkness can not
stay the progress of the work of our God.
This is something to live for. It keeps the
hopes and affections bright and lends addi-
tional charms to all in nature that is amiable
and lovely. And all who labor in this
glorious cause, have their reward.
				Hannah Harrison.

		Cottonwood, Feb. 28, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	I have read your paper with pleasure and
interest; and now, have a desire to mingle
my testimony with those of my sisters who
testify to the sacred truth of the Gospel-
work in which we are engaged. To-day I
know this is the Church of Christ; that
plural marriage, as well as the other prin-
ciples which it contains, was ordained of
God, for the blessing and exaltation of the
Saints. And I believe it to be the duty of
every Latter-day Saint to teach and practice
that truth as well as the rest. And that
every mother should teach her children, as 
well by example as precept, to seek out
and understand for themselves, correct
principles. The Lord has given us a
glorious light, and except we follow it
steadily and prayerfully, we may expect to
be soon left in the dark, and that we will
become more blind than we were ere the
light beamed upon us.
	Daughters of  Zion, let us be mindful.
						Theresa.

		Ogden City, Feb. 3rd, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	Having been a subscriber to your excel-
lent paper since its commencement, and
seeing the wide scope you have provided
the "Mormon" ladies, for expressing their
sentiments and portraying their position, I
venture to address you a few words. In
the first place, I feel thankful that the time
has come when the women of this Church
can publish their views, and that too, through
a woman's Journal. And I hope they all
feel as I do, that they would not be without
the paper.
	Now, for myself. For fifteen years I lived
in monogamy—bound to a "drunkard," who
used to come home and curse and swear,
and with whom my life was in constant
jeopardy. I cannot tell what I endured,
but I thank my Heavenly Father for my
deliverance, for my happy home in these
valleys, and for my good, faithful husband
in the Kingdom of God, who is a "polygam-
ist," honorable and worthy, and who has
not tasted of any kind of strong drink for
twenty-five years. This I consider, speaks
volumes. I am now living in "polygamy"
of my own free will and choice.
	It is woman's mission to do good—to per-
form, each one her faithful work, which
will bring its own reward. Any woman


can do good every day of her life if she
chooses. To her it is given to create sun-
shine in her home, however lowly it may
be; to comfort those that mourn, and to
bless with cheerful smiles and words of
encouragement all with whom she is associ-
ated.
	I am glad to read of the success of the
Relief Societes in different parts of the Ter-
ritory, and think the EXPONENT a splendid
means of making the sisters in the Societies
acquainted with each other.		
	I will conclude with kind wishes and
earnest prayers for all who engage in the
great work—the Emancipation of Woman
and the establishment of Truth.
							E. McKay.

		MILL CREEK WARD,
			Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I do not purpose to say much. It is not
my calling to write for a public journal, yet
I desire to say a few words in an humble
way. 
	I am well advanced in years; am the
mother of ten children, and have had an ex-
perience in Celestial or Patriarchal marri-
age for the last twenty-five years, an experi-
ence that many of my sisters have not had.
	It is then of this great and eternal princi-
ple of truth that I wish to bear testimony.
	The rulers of our nation are moving "en
masse to abolish Plural or Patriarchal Mar-
riage, by enactments of stringent and severe
laws, which are not founded in justice,
truth or mercy, but are at war with our
sacred Republican institutions, and with the
only true order of marriage known in the
law of God, or that has ever been revealed
to man by the revelations of Heaven.
	When you take away, in the resurrection,
or in the life which is to come (in the great
plan of man’s redemption,) our sacred marri-
age ties, our family relations, “the Patri-
archal order, that God has ordained,” what
is left? What kind of a heaven is there for
us to inherit? Certainly none worth living
for; but the pious rulers of our nation, and
such “divines” as Parson Newman are
welcome to inherit such—the Latter-day
Saints do not want it.
	The first marriage celebrated on the earth
was for time and for all eternity. When
Adam took his wife he did not know of any
death. There was no “man-made” sectarian
ceremony about this union; no simple
“you take this woman to be your wife
until seperated by death,” No! the bond
reached from earth to the eternities and the
union was as eternal as God himself.
	Through the great atonement of Jesus
Christ, and the keys of authority in the
Everlasting Priesthood that Peter held, will
evreything be restored to man that was lost
in the fall. And Father Adam will have
his wife, or wives. And the faithful Latter-
day Saints, in the resurrection, by the same
Authority, that "binds on earth and it is
bound in heaven," "will have every wife
and child" that is faithful and adheres to 
the laws of God in the days of their proba-
tion. And the rulers of the nations cannot
prevent it. Their power may be felt by the
Church, and by individuals. This has been
the case in other ages of the world's history,
yet the eternal principles and purposes of
God remain the same. Man cannot abolish
what God has ordained. 
					RHODA ANN MILLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORDS of cheerful encouragement often
do more good than costly presents.
	LORENZA Silva, a Mexican lady, died
with the weight of 150 years, less eleven
days, on her head.


(For the EXPONENT,
HONEST HEARTS vs. POLlSHED MAN-
				NERS.

	“Give me the honest heart and the rough
bark;” says Bro. Gruff, and—“Mark my
words, that fellow is too polite to be honest.”
	Wherefore, brother? Is not politeness
truly a christian grace? and is it absolutely
necessary to sacrifice honesty in order to
achieve politeness? If so, by all means
choose honor as the greater virtue; but I
doubt if a person can be truly and thoroughly
honest without being polite. As I under-
stand the term, “politeness” signifies “con-
siderate kindness of manners.”
	Is there anything wrong in being consid-
erate of another’s rights, feelings, or even
whims? or rather, does not the absence of
such consideration betoken dishonesty?
	Because it is pleasant and graceful, is it
any the less honest to say “I beg pardon,”
after slightly injuring another’s rights or
feelings? And are not smiling “Thank
you’s” for little favors received, as much
more honest as more charming than grim
silence? If our sons stand in easy, graceful
attitudes, are capable of executing captivat-
ing bows, are never culpable of wearing hats
nor whistling indoors, and never talk slang,
is it any shadow of an argument that their
morals are not good? If so, I am too blind
to perceive it.
	“But” argues Bro. Gruff, “a polished man-
ner is so good a cloak for rogues to hide
their wickedness under.” Now that would
imply that rogues are generally polished;
but I venture the assertion, that for one
polished rascal you will find ten rude ones;
but, admitting that it is not so, why con-
demn a virtue in order to reach a vice?
Discriminate, and condemn insincerity, in-
stead of the virtue counterfeited.
	There never was a counterfeit without
a true coin to copy from, and if rogues try
to hide their villainy behind a pleasing
address, that of itself is a proof of its worth;
for no one would take the trouble to copy
anything so intrinsically worthless as to be
inadequate to their aims. Besides, there
is no counterfeit so clever as to defy all
tests, and if polished rogues, by their fair
exterior lead any astray, it is through the
victims' vanity, greed, envy or other weak-
ness, and herein is an all-sufficient test; If
any one addresses himself to such feelings
he is thus far dishonest and should be
shunned; but so long as his urbanities appeal
to our nobler and better sentiments, there
is no harm in him, let his secret principles
be what they may. But the moment his
fingers strike a key, which does not cord
with honor, beware!
	One wiser than we, said, “Be courteous,”
and to do so, does not require us to be in-
sincere or crafty. Honesty and polished
manuers are not antagonistic; they are
individual flowers in the ambrosial bouquet
of graces; and because one may be fairer
or sweeter than another, is no reason for
discarding the other. Beloved youth, fear
not to cultivate a pleasant addess, for, thus
draped, your pure integrity will be doubly
alluring and effective. ’Tis but a choice
in habits, after all, and since we cannot
avoid forming habits of some kind, pure
gratitude for the choice, should lead you
to choose those which are at once the more
pleasant and the more profitable.
	All things are to be judged by that which
they effect; and civility and grace never
yet injured their possessor, and when not
linked with dishonesty, they just as richly
benefit those who come in contact with
them. A favor asked in a courteous manner
is far more readily granted than one which
savors of demand; and one granted gra-
ciously, gives far more happiness to the
recipient.
	Well bred ways, will secure for you respect
and favor, when your friend of churlish
manners would be severely slighted. 
	Politeness shall be the pure gold setting
for your priceless pearl of honesty.
								L. L. D.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

	CARROT SOUP.—Two pounds of carrots,
three ounces of butter, seasoning to taste of
salt and cayenne, two quarts of stock or
gravy soup.
	STEAMED BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.
—Lay the bread and butter in a basin with
apricot and other jam between; add a custard
as for a baked pudding, and steam it.
	ALDERLY PUDDING.—Two tablespoon-
fuls of ground rice, the same of arrowroot,
the yolks of two eggs, a little grated lemon-
peel, sugar to taste, and one pint of milk
mixed together. Lay a little orange-marma-
lade or other preserve at the bottom, of a
dish, pour over it this mixture, and bake.
	GINGER PUDDING.—One cup not quite full
of suet, two cups of bread-crumbs, two
teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger; mix with
warm molasses, butter a mould or basin,
put in the pudding, and bake; or, if pre-
ferred, steam it in place of baking.
	HOME is the realm in which the wife is
the sovereign, and her sovereignty, will
bring her honor and love according as her
rule over the matters committed to her
trust is wisely and beneficently ordered.
That realm, limited as it is, demands for its
government a much greater and a more
unremitting effort of thought than is always
given to it; for when a wife, intent on mak-
ing the home of her family all that it is  
possible to make it, studies daily how best
by skillful management she can gratify
preferences, please tastes, anticipate wishes, 
keep out of sight little worries, twine pri- 
vations with decorations of love, and lift off
for a while, burdens of care, all of which
appeal to her for thoughtful and graceful
intervention, she seldom fails of securing
her reward which she most dearly prizes.
	A PERSON who has suffered from, or is
subject to, quinsy, should, after an attack
has passed off, use every means of strength-
ening the throat; by this the attacks may
be greatly prevented. Any of the astringent
gargles may be used after quinsy, but none
perhaps answers better, or is more accessible
to the poor, than the decoction of oak bark.
This ought to be used night and morning
for some weeks, and when its use is drop-
ped, the person should acquire the habit of
gargling the throat with cold water at the
above times, “as a regular practice,” and
at the same time should, habitually, lave 
freely with cold water, or salt water at first,
at least, all around the throat. In this way
a tendency to quinsy may be greatly over-
come. Further, all unnecessary muffling,
either by fur or otherwise, about the neck,
should he avoided, for there is no more 
fertile source of sore-throat. Doubtless
many cases of simple soar-throat may be
managed domestically; but the contingen-
cies of crysipelatous or croupy sore-throat, 
or of quinsy, which may suffocate, must
not be lost sight of.


﻿A NIECE of the Pope has lately taken the
veil as a Benedictine nun. 
	SCOTT should be read in the Spring,
Shelly in the fervid Summer, Wordsworth
in Autumn, Cowper and Byron in Winter,
and Shakespeare all the year around.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	In the forests of Maine, in the latter part
of February, snow was four feet deep......
The manner in which Poppleton drew tears
out of the eyes of Oaks Aames, is pro-
nounced “beautiful (!)”......There are 1,000
alligators in a hole on James’ Island, near
Charleston, South Carolina......Philadelphia
has contributed a block of marble for the
Washington monument........The standard of
admission to Yale College is to be raised,
doubtless in view of woman’s rights being
universally acknowledged......The Empress
Eugenie is, for her age, young looking;
wears a sweet, pensive expression, and is
beloved by all who have had a chance of
becoming attached to her......The remains
of 117 steam-boats lie on the bottom of the
Arkansas river......Eighteen Cadets, at West
Point, failed to pass and were discharged......
The exhibition building at Vienna was
reported completed in February......Rhode
Island has 3,000 militia......The inaugural
ball given in Washington, on the 5th inst.,
was the grandest ever given in this country.
......Eastport, Maine, has had an earth-
quake......Iron ore is found in twenty-eight
counties, inTennessee...Michigan City claims
to be the second lumber-point on the Lakes.
A boy in Mound City, Kansas, was lately
chased into the river and killed by a cata-
mount......A fever is raging in southwest
Missouri—the “mining fever.”...........The
horse-disease has attacked the cows in Sny-
der county, Pennsylvania......An elegant
boulevard is contemplated at Concord, New
Hampshire......Cold weather in Louisiana
has been destructive to bees in more than
ordinary style this season......Boston fired a
hundred guns on inauguration-day......San
Jose, California, boasts that in its balmy
climate, tomatoes and cats flourish in the
open air all winter.......A Minnesota judge
decides that shaving on Sunday is illegal.
.......A youth in the same State tried to start
his horse by hitting it with his gun which
went off, carrying three of his fingers with
it......Prince Gortschakoff, it is reported,
will settle the boundaries of Afghanistan by
a special Anglo-Russian committee......A
royal decree has been issued in Rome, by
which the Italian Government takes formal
possession of the convents in that city......
Bass, an English beer-brewer, is to be made
a baronet.......Prince Albert of Russia is to
be married in April.......The Russian Czar-
owitz accompanies his mother to Italy for
the benefit of his health......Returns of the
London Board show, that for the year 1872
the foreign trade of Great Britain reached
the enormous total of $3,046,690,000......The
new President of Mexico, Lerdo de Tejada,
is 45 years old, noted for eloquence as an
orator, possessed of great energy and cour-
age, and a lawyer......A new combustible,
said to give more heat and be cheaper than
coal, has lately been discovered in Italy......
It is reported that the Italian Government
has issued imperative instructions to the
Prefect of Turin to impede all emigration to
this country, and to permit only those
Italians to leave who have documentary
assurances of their employment when they
arrive here......A school-teacher in Minne-
sota procured food and bed-clothing from a
neighbor, and kept his entire school in-
doors, refusing any one permission to
attempt to go home during a late, long and
fearful storm......Pope Pius IX  has wit-
nessed the death of 100 Cardinals during his
pontificate of a quarter of a century......Miss
Emerson, of New York, claims the author-
ship of “Betsy and I are out.”......A ninety-
mile walk on snow-shoes was recently
performed by a woman in Michigan......Two
English sisters, in Berlin, have just put up
their sign as dentists......Listz, the music
professor, pronounces a young lady his most
promising pupil. It is Miss Anna Finken-
staedt, who has lately entered the concert-
field......Report says an attempt is being made
to reduce Queen Victoria to poverty by
cutting down her income to the sum paid
the President of the United States......
Ohio has three million acres more of culti-
vated land than Pennsylvania......Congress
prohibits gift photographic establishments
in Washington......Great damage has been
done by recent floods on the Delaware river.
......Montana is considered the best watered
region west of the Mississippi river......A
man in Cleveland has sued that city for
$5,000 for catching the small-pox there......
George Eliot made $40,000 by her "Middle-
march.”......Thirty-nine medals struck in
honor of Benjamin Franklin are owned by a
Bostonian......Miss Emily Faithful has had
large and attentive audiences in Washing-
ton......Mrs. Kate N. Doggett, of Chicago, has
lately delivered a series of Art-lectures
before the Christian Union Association.
......Delaware is to have a Constitutional
Convention on the 20th of May......The facts
and theories of Darwinism are to be lectured
on and explained by Rev. Rowland Connor,
of Florence.


﻿A BLOW AIMED AT WOMAN SUF-
				FRAGE.

	Congress adjourned without the bill directed
against Utah becoming law, although it passed
the Senate in a modified form, but still retain-
ing the provision depriving the women of
Utah of the ballot. This is a point in which
all the women of the United States should be
interested, as far, at least, as they desire to
occupy a political equality, not simply with
men, but such men as are to be found among the
most degraded class of the colored race,
or the most ignorant foreigners that may seek
our shores and desire citizenship. Does any
one think that if Congress were to deprive the
women of Utah of the elective franchise by
repealing the Territorial statute conferring it
upon them, that the same body would imme-
diately turn around and undo its own work,
by again conferring the suffrage on them
through any measure extending that right to
all American women? Those who are agitat-
ing the question, who are working for the
extension of the elective franchise to women
all through the United States, are directly
interested in this matter, for they may rest
assured that the Congress that strikes at the
principle of woman suffrage, by depriving the
women of a Territory of the right to vote, will
not stultify itself by passing or recommending
any measure, nor any Constitutional amend-
ment, recognizing woman’s right to this
political status.	
	The Woman’s Suffrage Association of New
York saw this, and passed a resolution, which
was presented to Congress, protesting against


the blow aimed at woman's rights in the Frel-
inghuysen bill. And advocates of woman’s
cause throughout the entire Union should be
alive to the fact that, if a similar attempt is
made next session of Congress, it will have a
double object, as it had before: to further the
plans for plunder of political adventurers in
this Territorty, and to strike a blow at
the woman’s suffrage cause.
	Most of the men who urge with the most
strenuousness the crusade against the Mormons,
are avowed enemies to the woman’s rights move-
ment in its every aspect; and while they are
without influence to effect anything against it
in the States, they know very well that if they
can get any measure through Congress in
opposition to it and attacking it in a Territory,
they will have successfully made a point.
	Every lecturer, every editor, every person
advocating or interested in the cause of woman,
should make this matter his or her own, in
the event of another attempt to deprive the
women of a Territory of the right of suffrage.


TWO DANGERS.

	There are two dangers to which the Latter-
day Saints are exposed. One is a want of 
that strong faith in the Almighty, necessary to
secure His blessings, often the result of a neg-
lect of duty, a want of prayerfulness, or a
disregard of revealed truths, in consequence of
which the Spirit of God is grieved. The other
is an over confidence in the protection of the
Lord, and acting on the belief that He will
preserve His people from all danger or affliction,
no matter what course they may persue. They
have the promise that He will sustain them
and bear them off triumphantly if they will be
faithful, humble, prayerful, and keep His com-
mandments; yet they have no promise of such
protection if they neglect their covenants and 
disregard the commandments of the Lord. The
Saints have been so visibly preserved from
many threatened dangers, and have so often
been borne in safety over the troubled waters of
affliction, that some seem to imagine they will
continue to be so sustained, under all circum-
stances. Yet the promised blessing is only to
those who seek to sanctify and purify them-
selves before Heaven.
	These are principles which mothers should
inculcate upon their children, upon their sons 
and daughters, that from childhood to maturity
the youth of the community may be trained
in ways and in the practice of principles of
righteousness, that will give them a faith and
a power only received and enjoyed as a result
of living honestly and uprightly before the
Lord, and observing every truth of the Gospel 
of salvation.


﻿HISTORY AND ROMANCE. 

	A young mother wishes to be informed what
difference it can make whether she reads novels
or history to her children, as either will tend
to inspire thought which is the foundation of
mental greatness? She asks how the acts of
individuals in former generations can make
any difference with the people of to-day? Of
what intrinsic importance it can be to her or
her children whether Henry VIII, of England,
divorced Catharine of Arragon and had Ann
Boleyn beheaded, or otherwise? Whether Na-
poleon was longer remembered and more deeply
mourned by Josephine, or Maria Louise?
Whether Mary Queen of Scots was dethroned 
and imprisoned or not? Whether Hannibal
crossed the Alps, or did not leave Africa? Or
if the city of Thebes had one gate or one hun-
dred?


The facts contained in history should not
possess, of themselves, so great interest for
present or future generations, as the motives
which prompted individuals or kingdoms to
work out such facts. Every deed that is, or
has ever been, accomplished, must, in accord-
ance with the laws of nature, be, or have been,
actuated by some design. The histories of
wise and good men and women, tell us of bright
designs wrought out in noble deeds, worthy of
our imitation; those of ambiguous and repre-
hensible characters show us the tedious and
fraudulent way of walking in darkness with no
pure and exalted ambition to instigate to high
and noble purposes.
	History is solid food, in the shape of facts,
from which intellectual and philosophical sus-
tenance may be drawn; romance is a stimulant,
which excites the mental powers only to leave
them weakened, and stirs up passion to seek
gratification, even by unwise if not by un-
righteous means.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	On February 9th, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
with President George A. Smith and party,
was at Alexandria, in Egypt, and the party ex-
pected to start next day for Cairo, the capital
of Egypt. From thence they proposed going
to Suez, Ismailia, and Port Said, taking
steamer at the last named point for Jaffa, in
Palestine.
	An hour spent pleasantly in Professor Mor-
gan's College, a few mornings since, gave us
an assurance that the gentleman or lady who
has the privilege of regular attendance there,
can hardly fail of becoming so much engaged
in whatever branches of study may be pursued,
as to render school-life dry and irksome in no
respect. The management of the commercial
department and the styles of penmanship
exhibited, were particularly interesting. Evi-
dently, the Principal understands his business.
	As if to apologize and make restitution, for
the heavy snow-storms of the middle and latter
part of February, the grand old weather-king
has been smiling so benignly, through the first
days of March, as to give the beginning of
Spring months almost the lovely appearance of
May’s delightful self. As early as the 10th
inst., birds were singing merrily about the
upper windows; an enterprising honey-bee
danced in and out of doors which it happened
to find ajar, warming its glossy wings in the
sunshine; young ladies skipped about the
streets, which were positively becoming dusty,
with light shawls or none at all on; and older
ones sighed over the near approach of the dread-
ful heat of July and August.
	A very interesting meeting of the mem-
bers of the Physiological class was held
at the Social Hall, their regular place
of meeting, on the afternoon of the 11th
inst. After the usual instructions had
been given and received, Miss Martha
Horne, on behalf of the class, made a presenta-
tion to Miss Mary E. Cook, whose services as
teacher of the class have been gratuitously
given since its organization. The gift, which
had been purchased by the class as a small
token in acknowledgement of their thanks for
and appreciation of Miss Cook’s generous
endeavors was a very handsome dish of artificial
fruit, artistically formed and arranged by Mrs.
Wilkinson of this city. Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, President of the association, made a
short, appropriate address, which was re-
sponded to in suituble terms by Msis Cook,
It was then moved, seconded and carried,
that the name of the Society be changed from
"Phisiological Class" to “Ladies Educational
Association,” which was considered more
appropriate; also that for various individual
and general causes, the meetings be postponed
for one month.
	There was a time when woman’s chastity
was protected in Utah, and the crime of viola-
tion was unknown here. But with the advent
of a class of lawless men there is a sad change;
and women when alone and unprotected are in
hourly danger. A short time ago a lady ar-
rived at Ogden from Piedmont, on the U. P. R.
R., where she had been teaching school. The
train had been delayed by snow, and did not
reach Ogden until a late hour. She was offered
a room, used as an office, near the track, as a
shelter for herself and a baby in her arms, until
morning, the person who made the offer hand-
ing her the key, and saying that he stopped at
a hotel up in the city. She accepted the offer
with thanks, lonely as the place was, locked
herself in the room, and was preparing to seek
what rest she could for the night, when the
villain who had given her the key forced an
entrance into the place, and with leveled pistol
in hand and by violence committed a crime so
black that the only fitting punishment for it
should be death. He escaped, was captured at
Toano, and brought to this city; and is now
committed for trial, being held in bonds of
$5,000 for his appearance. That is: the federal
Judge who committed him, estimates a wo-
man’s outraged chastity and a life-long horror,
at the price indicated. A wealthy scoundrel
may thus commit crime with impunity, of the
most infamous character, if he can pay for it;
while a poor one may have to suffer imprison_
ment. And this is the manner in which
woman, is “protected” by the administrators
of the law who clamor so loudly against “Mor-
mon” men for caring for, preserving, and really
protecting their own wives, while honoring
chastity in all, and guarding it as a priceless
jewel!


﻿THE Prince of Wales, the Emperor of
Germany, the Hospodar of Montenegro and
M. Thiers will be among the royal and other
distinguished guests at the approaching
Vienna Exposition.	
	THE Shah of Persia wishes to make his
European trip without ostentation, so he
will take with him only three princes of the
blood, three ministers of the first class, seven
of the second, and thirty attendants.
	A RECENT calculation relative to the prin-
cipal European languages shows that Eng-
lish is spoken by 90,000,000 of persons,
German by 55,000,000 Spanish by 55,000,000
and French by 45,000,000.
	AN immense Catholic emigration from
Germany is said to be impending, in conse-
quence of the difficulties between the
Imperial government and the dignitaries of
the Roman Church. The statement seems
to be that the young Catholics will come to
America.
	MINISTER Bancroft and the Greek church
patriarch at Constantinople wagged their
grey beards at each other in mutual compli-
mentary visits, in the city of the Sultan
the other day. The patriarch is ninety-two
years of age, and the minister is believed to
be not more than forty or fifty years older.
	THE World’s exhibition at Vienna will
open in May. The American Commission
is very active in securing space and provid-
ing accommodations for exhibitors from the
United States. A sharp competition Is
expected between British and American
manufacturers of mowers, reapers, and
other improved agricultural machinery.


THE	SEX.

	THE Vienna Exposition will have a special
department for “Woman’s Work.”
	ALICE Wellington, Boston’s coming poet-
ess, is a teacher in the Girl’s High School.
	MISS Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
is to be the prima donna in Warsaw, next
season. 
	A WOMAN in Birmingham, England, was
lately fined $200 for giving a good character
to a bad servant.
	AND now, rumor says, it was lung fever
instead of small-pox, with which Miss
Dodge, (Gail Hamilton,) has been afflicted.
	THE dowager Empress, of Brazil, died in
Lisbon, a few days since, aged 61. She was
married to the Emperor Pedro I., in 1829.
	CARLOTTI Patti was on a train in Georgia
when a severe accident occurred, and was
very active in attending to the wants of the
sufferers.
	A FEW admirers of the brilliant talents pos-
sessed by Mme. Clara Schumann, have pur-
chased an annuity for that lady of a thousand
thalers.
	A SAN Francisco editor thinks Oregon and
Washington must be good places for women
to live in if they have time there to attend
to “Mass Conventions.”
	THE eldest of General Schenck's daughters,
who are so pretty, well-educated, and taste-
ful, is about to be married to the son of
a member of Parliament.
	MADAME de Schweinitz, wife of the Ger-
man Ambassador, and daughter of Minister
Jay, was lately received by the Emperor of
Austria, at Vienna. 
	MRS. Mayor of Jurupa, lately saved her
child from drowning by decending a well by 
bucket and rope; She sustained herself and
child until assistance arrived.
	A HUSBAND in Rome, N.Y., lately sued
his wife for $30 he entrusted to her before
marriage. Nothing like it was recorded in
the law books, and the jury, with chivalric
promptness, decided In favor of the wife.
	MISS Hosmer’s monument to Miss Fal- 
coner, a young English lady who died in 
Rome, has been placed in the Church of St.
Andrea delle Fratte, in that city, and is the
only sculpture by an American artist to be
found in any of the Italian churches.
	A YOUNG sharper says, that “a school-
ma’am who has never been in love hasn’t a
bit of mercy; but take one that’s got some-
body to look for, and she’s the best in the
world. She always keeps a smile and a
pleasant word on hand, for fear of a
surprise.”
	A WOMAN fell into a well in a Western
town the other day, and an editor, in com-
menting upon it, remarked that he never
heard of a commotion in his life that hadn’t
a woman at the bottom of it. It is supposed
that the poor fellow had been married once
or twice and spoke from the card.
	THE fashions of the Japanese women are
thus spoken of by Mr. Lanmann: “The
hair of the women is gathered in bunches,
and tied with beautifully dyed crapes,
and secured by a long four-cornered tortoise-
shell pin. The dresses are made very long.
The sleeves are flowing, and only sewed
about half way up, thus forming a pocket.
A species of sash, four inches wide and four
feet long, is worn around the waist. The
women always wear white socks, in which
the big toe is separated from the rest, to
admit of a thong by which the shoes are
tied to the feet. They have ‘rainy weather’
shoes and ‘fair weather' shoes, which are
made of wood and of straw.”


﻿				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW

		ROME, ITALY, Jan. 24, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	From Genoa, where I wrote you last, we
went to Turin—from Turin to Venice. The
time has been when Venice exercised a
powerful influence at home and abroad, and
claimed to be “mistress of the seas.” That
day has gone by. The hotel at which we
put up appeared to be completely imbedded
in water; but we found on the opposite side,
from where we entered, stepping from our
gondolas on to stone steps it claimed a narrow
strip of "terra firma.” There is not a car-
riage in the place—in the public garden
three horses are kept on exhibition—all
travel and business, except that of pedes-
trian capacity, is done on the water by the
means of oars propelled by human muscles.
	The once boasted silk manufactures of
Venice have dwindled into a solitary one,
and that, I was informed, is worked by
hand. In the manufacture of glass, I think
they are nowhere excelled, especially in that
of the ornamental kind. We visited one
establishment. It is a curiosity to see into
how many forms and textures glass can be
worked. We saw women spinning and reel-
ing it into fine threads, while others wove
it into fancy plates, necklaces, etc., which
seemed elastic and strong.
	The “Grand Hotel Victoria,” our stop-
ping place, is a fine establishment, and
affords good accommodations for travelers.
	But I must hasten on, and leave Venice
with its palaces, palazzes, prisons, “Bridge
of Sighs,” gondolas and canals, for another
consideration; and from thence to Bologna—
thence to Florence, where for the first time
since leaving home, we are located on the
ground floor of the hotel.

			FLORENCE. 

	Beneath high, villa-dotted hills 
		That in succession rise 
	Like rich gemm’d parapets around; 
		The lovely Florence lies.

 	The Arno, broad and gentle stream, 
		That flows meand’ring through, 
	Divides, but in unequal parts, 
		The city platt in two. 

	I’ve seen its princely palaces  
		Where wealth and ease reside— 
	Where independence fills her sails 
		With luxury and pride. 

	I see you, Florence, all the while, 
		So beautiful and gay; 
	I ask, Is this your common dress, 
		Or, this your holiday? 

	Be wise; and while their golden show’rs 
		The bounteous heav’ns distil;
	Avoid debasing luxury, 
	Prolific source of ill.

	The crown of Peace is on your head— 
		Its wreath around your brow; 
	The royal carpet, newly spread, 
		Adorns your threshold now.

From Florence we went to Pisa—from thence
to Rome.
	Of the much I have seen here, I can say
but little in one letter. We are traveling
under the direction of Mr. Cook, the Lon-
don tourist. He furnished a guide to take
us out five days, and show us the most
interesting portions of the city. Our pro-
gramme concluded last evening; and feeling
that I have “done Rome,” I am doing up
matters to-day, preparatory to leaving for
Naples to-morrow—writing you is one of
the items.
	Among the many curiosities witnessed, I
will mention one remarkably singular, al-
though not the most pleasing. It is the
“Cemetery of the Capuchins,” in the Fran-
ciscan Monastery. Our guide took us to the
door, where we were met by a monk who
conducted us through four apartments in
which five thousand and four hundred
monks had been buried, and nearly all of
the bones of these persons were in plain
view. A narrow path on one side of the
room afforded a passage, parallel with which
was a railway over a very low wall to pre-
vent intrusion into the main portion of the
room which the bones occupied. It is
impossible to describe the sensation pro-
duced by the sight of millions of human
bones assorted and arranged—some on
arches from four to five feet high, under
which a body apparently in a similar
state to that of an Egyptian mummy, was
standing, dressed in a black gown, others
were symmetrically formed into niches where
other bodies were placed in a reclining
position; others were arranged in fanciful
forms and figures on the celings above.
The long bones were packed by themselves
—the arches being mostly formed by them,
and some of them crowned with several
rows of sculls—the small ones being used
in making ornaments. Every thing, the
chandeliers, candlesticks, etc., were made
of bones! The arrangement of them re-
quired much care and study, and no very
slight artistic skill.
	The manner of these monks is, when they
bring a body, to take up the bones of the
one that had been the longest buried, and
place the fresh one in the vacancy, and in
this way the bones are, accumulating from
time to time.
	Those bodies which do not decompose,
are placed in the arches and niches of these
bony structures, and preserved in this state.
We saw a number of them—one who died
as late as 1867, with whom our guide had
been well acquainted.
	With all the seemingly ludicrous arrange-
ments, these bones are sacredly prized by
the living monks. On being asked if they
would sell a skull, the answer was decidedly
“no." The strange curiosity of this exhibi-
tion interested me much, but I was glad to
turn my face in the direction of fresh air, as
soon as the novelty of the scene was ex-
plained.
	We visited the palace of Victor Emanuel
—passed through halls, reception rooms,
antechambers, state rooms, dining rooms,
etc., very beautiful—the furniture rich, and
altogether magnificent. We should have
been better satisfied had we interviewed
the occupant, but that was not included in
the programme.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.

				PROVO CITY, Feb. 22, 1873.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	I forward to you a letter which . I have
received from our beloved and highly
esteemed sister E. R. Snow, thinking it of
enough interset to grace the columns of
the EXPONENT. If you think proper, there-
fore, you are at liberty to publish all, or a
portion of it. as your judgement may direct.
I believe everything that appears in your
paper from that noble lady, gives satisfaction
to your patrons. With kind love to your-
self, and all the dear sisters in your city,
and best wishes for the EXPONENT, which
I sincerely hope may continue to increase in
worth and interest until it shall be second to
no publication in Woman’s Editorial depart-
ment—praying God to bless and endow you
with wisdom and light from on high, I am,
your sister in the bonds of truth and love,
					MARGARET T. SMOOT.
						ROME, ITALY,
						  January 18, 1872.
MY DEAR SISTER M. T. SMOOT:—
	You in Provo, and I in Rome! Who
would have anticipated this wide separa-
tion? Yesterday, Mr. Wood, Mr. Cook’s 
agent, with whom arrangements were pre-
viously made, to show us the most
important points here, conducted us to some
portions of the ancient ruins of this ancient
city. We were shown the remains of the
temple of Venus, Jupiter, etc., the ancient
Forum, the Rostrum so famous for speechi-
fying—portions of gigantic columns in a
reclining position, several standing in their
original places and in a good state of pre-
servation, considering their great age. We
were informed that the late Popes have
exercised their influence in preserving these
ruins which are now attracting the attention
of great numbers of people from other parts,
particularly from England and America.
	At the expense of the government, many
hands are now employed in excavating a
portion of the great Forum of the ancient
Emperors, the Caesars, etc., which by
gradual changes and usages, having been at
times occupied by shepherds, has been buried
to the depth of several feet by accumulations
of “debris.” There is a paling around the
ruins, and no one is allowed to enter with-
out permission. As we stood on a portion
that has been unburied, we saw the stalwart
guard-officer hurry a man off from the
premises, who, do doubt, had stealthily
intruded. We were all right, for our guide,
an Englishman, seems to be of considerable
consequence; he is agent and sub-Editor of
the “Swiss Times,” a lecturer, etc. When
he conducted us to the “Holy Stair Case,”
said to be the identical one that the Savior
ascended in the Court of Pilate; I asked him
if he would swear to it. He said emphatically,
“I will not swear to anything.” But directly
afterward, he said I will swear to the acque-
duct, and I will swear that the stairs
were brought from Jerusalem, and I will
swear to the “Arch of Titus,” which was
before us. We saw a man and woman
slowly ascending the stairs which no one is
allowed to ascend except on their knees;
our incredulity prompted us to accept the
suggestion of our guide and ascend by a side
flight which was considered less sacred; we
found a representation of Christ on the cross
in front of the “Sacred Stairs.” We visited
the celebrated Colliseum, which must have
been a most magnificent structure in earlier
days, being capable of seating eighty-seven
thousand, with standing room for twenty
thousand more.
	It was St. Anthony’s day, and we wit- 
nessed the ceremony of blessing animals,
which was the most amusing of all. On
that day the priest blesses horses, mules, 
donkeys and all kinds of animals. A fine
span of horses, richly caparisoned, were
driven in front of the church—the priest,
with several attendants, came out, dressed 
in black gowns with white tunics. Stand-
ing in front of the horses, with grave pom-
posity, he read a service in Latin, which,
probably the animals understood as well as
himself; after which he took a long handled 
swab from a kettle, in the hand of a boy
standing by his side, and flirted water
(probably “holy,”) In the direction of the
horses’ faces, but not far enough to reach
them; and then, after pocketing his fee, the
priest returned into the church. The coach-
man, a young man, could hardly hold his
countenance, looking as if he were witness-
ing a farce, and felt that the spectators all
sympathized with him.
						MONDAY, 20th.
	Yesterday afternoon Mr. Wood took us


through, around and under many of the
ruins of the palaces of the Emperors—
portions of the walls built by early Romans.
Many, of the specimens show vestiges of
beauty and magnificence. In several in-
stances, trees have grown in crevices ,of
ponderous edifices, which were constructed
of rock, brick and cement, their growth
having made large openings, forcing the
structures apart and thus producing dilapi-
dation. I will enclose you a leaf which I
plucked from a shrub growing on the remains
of the ruins of Caligula. In exhuming these
ruins, inscriptions are found which identify
many of them.	
	Last night brother Carrington joined us,
and brought what of our mail had arrived
in Liverpool. 	*	*	*	We are all
in good spirits; my health was never better,
although “sight-seeing” is not the easiest
work in the world. Clara and I get along
just as well as two persons could do, and I
feel no lack of companionship. *	*		
	I get but little time to write, have done
this by “piece-meal.” With much love, I
am as ever
						Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	[Written for the EXPONENT.
	LETTER FROM BEAVER.
			—
	On the afternoon of the 20th ult., Presi-
dent Young’s party arrived in Beaver, and
notice was circulated that a meeting
would be held, and although it was
then after four o'clock, and very cold, the
house was filled to overflowing.
	Bro. Staines first addressed the assembly,
comparing the ease and comfort of the
present day, with the privations of former
times; demonstrating to the Saints that
labor, and not money, was the essential of
success in building up Zion—that labor, and
not capital, redeemed this fair land from a
howling wilderness. He urged the Saints
to improve their own homes and build up
their own cities, instead of selling their
handicraft to others for money. He also
spoke about the ways and manners of the
young; urging them to cultivate sober and
steady habits; saying that mothers confessed
hat although poverty and hardship had
stung them, and death had torn their child-
ren from their arms in infancy, they never
knew what sorrow was until their sons
approached manhood and disregarded good
advice, plunging into dissipation, wasting
time, health and self-respect in a certain
kind of enjoyment, which leaves a sting
behind.
	After him, Bp. Lorenzo D. Young occupied
a few minutes, but excused himself from much
speaking on the ground that his brother
was going to speak, and did not want to
hold the meeting late.
	President Young said he did not rise to
preach, he had done preaching enough
thirty years ago, to convert the world, had
the world listened; but he wished now to
converse a little with his friends.
	He spoke about the wilful blindness of the
world, its readiness to believe a falsehood,
and its outcry without investigation, against
this people. “But” he said, “we have no
cause for uneasiness, so long as we live our
religion and are not carried away by the
things of the world.” He also said that the
hatred and scorn of the world should be
nothing to the Saints; their delight should
be in the consciousness that God approved
of them, and that when the brief span of life
was over their reward was sure. The blows
aimed at him all fall short of their mark;
they were powerless to cause him a moments
uneasiness; the source of his joy and comfort
was as high above their influence as the sun
[new column]
was above the earth. He had merited the
hatred of the world by being instrumental
in the hands of God in forwarding His great
work; that blessing His people spiritually
and temporally, was to him a joy, a comfort,
a consolation, which the world could neither
give nor takeaway.
	Speaking of the desire to obtain wealth,
he said every one had a perfect right to get
all the wealth he could, honestly; provided
he made proper uses of it afterward. He
acknowledged himself only a steward over
the wealth which God had placed in his
hands, and accountable to Him for the use
of the least portion of it. That no one on
this earth owned anything; but those who
proved faithful and profitable stewards over
what was intrusted to their care, should be
real owners hereafter. He wished all to be
able, as he was, to say that in getting wealth
they had never wronged the widow and
orphan, never defrauded the poor nor the
rich, never over-reached their neighbor in a
bargain, nor in any way stained their souls
to get it. 	
	Referring to his reputed power and in-
fluence over the people, said he was often
tempted to wish he really had it, that he
might cause them to cease their folly, their
envy, backslidings, running after the things
of the world; and to fix their hearts and
eyes on God and the great future which is
surely theirs if they live for it. But he
added that it would not be right for him to
have such power—God himself did not
possess it, having delegated it to His
children in  the form of free-agency, to choose
between good and evil and receive the
appropriate reward for the choice made.
“Brethren and Sisters,” remarked the
speaker, “I am for God and righteousness!
and I would gladly know the sentiments of
your hearts to-night. Let all who are will-
ing and determined to serve the Lord to the
best of their ability, even though His enemies
hate, persecute and even kill them, now do
as I do!” and his right hand pointed heaven-
ward. Instantly hundreds of hands were
uplifted, and breathing was almost sus-
pended in reverential awe. His voice had
not been raised above conversational pitch,
his manner was calm, mild and kindly, as
that of a father conversing with his chil-
dren; but his words were like pure gold, and
seemed to sway the hearts of his hearers as
the summer wind sways the meadow grass.
He broke the silence with “Are you all
for God? Then I am glad; all is well.”
	He then referred to some parts of Brother
Staines’ remarks, advising the young to write
a history in daily deeds of honor, that if so
be, in the future they are called to occupy
high places, they need not blush to have
their early history sought out. Advised
parents to pray and teach their children to
pray; saying that children begotten, nur-
tured and taught in the fear and admonition
of the Lord, would never spurn their early
teaching and love corruption.
	I have seldom listened to so simple, plain,
unassuming, yet impressive a discourse.
And the effect was deepened on my mind
by a remark I overheard from a a stranger
who passed me on my way home, and whom
I took to be an outsider. He was saying to
his companion, “Well, it cannot be denied
that Brigham Young speaks with power,
and has a great influence over his listeners.
Why I felt it myself while he was talking.”
	I longed to answer, “Yes, the power of
good authority for what he says; the in-
fluence of a strong, noble, philanthropic
spirit over all corresponding good in the
minds of his hearers."
	I feel to say, as did that congregation,
God bless our President and spare his life
[new column]
long to bless his people with his loving
care, and to enjoy the golden harvest of the
priceless grain and fruits which he has
labored so faithfully to plant.”
								L. L. D.


RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION. 

	Ladies have assisted materially in the 
election of President Grant, some of us, to 
be sure, considering it “a choice between
the two evils.” Then should we not protest
against any unwise, or cruel act proposed by
the Executive, lest we share in the oppro-
brium?
	Surely, no woman can believe, in a relig- 
ious persecution, in this day, or, indeed, in 
any day. The principle is manish. Yet 
we are informed that President Grant in- 
tends to resume his disastrous course toward 
the Mormons. It is hard enough not to be 
free ourselves. But to see those who have
earned a right to live according to the dic-
tates of conscience by such sufferings, labors
and successes as the Mormons have proved, 
is harder still.		
	Were their women forced to share the 
love of a husband with others, as many 
nearer home are, it might be chivalric in  
President Grant to coerce the men. But  
even then he might better attend to greater 
evils nearer home.	
	The Mormons found a religious belief in 
the Old Testement, men and women alike, 
and put it in practice. Otherwise their
morals are pure, their industry, enterprise
and loyalty are unquestioned; they have
“made the desert to rejoice and blossom as 
the rose.” They are courteous and tolerant 
toward those who differ with them. Until
Eastern States, cities and people are equally 
praiseworthy, let them attack the “beam in
their own eye.”		
	If the President is to give people their 
religious views, why not overhaul the 
Oneida community, or attend to the “Social
Evil?”	
	Even some of the President’s most influen- 
tial male supporters are opposed to his
narrow impolicy in this matter; certainly 
all women must prove their sense of justice,
and belief in equal rights, by protesting
against persecution. Argument and exam- 
ple would finally overthrow polygamy.
Persecution will rouse the martyr spirit, 
and the blood of martys will prove the seed 
of that Church also, as it has for those of
purer faith.
					SHAWANEBEKE.
				In “The Woman’s Journal.”


JAMES Havens of Lynne, Connecticut, has 
fasted for fifty-seven days, it is said.	
	ONE-half of the false hair worn by Ameri- 
can women comes from prisons and lunatic
asylums.
	VERDI brought out Don Carlos, lately, at
Naples, and the audience brought him before 
the curtain thirty times.		
	Jo. Jefferson’s four nights at Baltimore 
produced $6,500. He will play in all the
leading southern cities.
	A MAN named Jackson, who escaped from
Vermont penitentiary, returned and claimed
the fifty dollars reward, and it was given to
him.
	THE Prince and Princess of Wales recently 
lunched with the Duke of Rutland. The
central dish was a boar’s head, and the
second a peacock pie.	
	GEORGE Sand’s translation of the Psalms
is pronounced by the critics to whom she
has read specimens of it, the noblest work
she has ever written.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A CHAT CONCERNING UTAH,
				—
WITH AN EX-UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, A
	POLITICIAN OF FORTY YEARS STANDING.

	SAN BERNARDINO, CALA., Feb 26th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—-
	I have been reading the news concerning
the proposed course to be taken at Washing-
ton in relation to Utah, and also the reasons
given by the twenty-six attorneys of your
city. Not being well posted in politics I
concluded to ask a few questions of the
Colonel, “my better half;” and thinking
you might be amused as I was, I concluded
to give you the “chat” in full.
	Question.—What is the cause of the ex-
citement against Utah at Washington?
	Answer.—Oh! there’s Clagget, and Axtell,
and Washburne, and Merritt, and a host of
others that want offices, or a pull at govern-
ment pap, and they think that the preference
will be given to the one who gets off the
most gas. 
	Q.	Don’t you think they are honest in
the objections they make concerning Utah?
	A. Well, we politicians, about election
times, don’t care anything about a man’s
morals if we can only get his support.
	Q. Don't you think the twenty-six attor-
neys at Salt Lake City had good cause for
taking the course they did?
	A. I Don’t know any of them but Ap-
pleby, and I can’t think he had any just
cause, for signing such an instrument, The
most of the others, I suppose, are floating
adventurers, and you know how it is with
we attorneys. “If business doesn’t come to
us, we go to business.”
	Q. But don’t you think they had some
cause for objecting to woman suffrage? 
	A. I think I could find five women in
Utah that know more of the rights of
parties than the whole of them.
	Q. What is your opinion in regard to the
case of Judge McKean?
	A. I have examined his rulings, and
read them to some of the most able attor-
neys in California, and we were of the
opinion that he should resign or be im-
peached.		
	Q. What course would you have taken,
had you been defending in his court?
	A. It is hard to make points before a
Judge that is prejudiced, but I think I
should have plead in bar President Polks’s
contract, and President Buchanan’s pardon.
	Q. What bargain did President Polk
make?
	A. He contracted with the Mormon
agents that if they furnished a battalion and
assisted to take a portion of Callifornia they
should select a part of the country, and he
would protect them in their peculiar relig-
ion.
	Q. What did he mean by “peculiar?
	A. Polygamy, I suppose.
	Q. What was President Buchanan’s
pardon?	
	A. Forgiveness for all past offences
against the United States.
	Q. Did the Mormons accept the terms?
	A. They did, and the negotiation was be-
tween the Mormons and Ben. McCullough
and Governor Powell, United States Com-
missioners. 
	Q. What course do you think President.
Grant will take in regard to Utah?
	A. I think the President has too much
good common sense to be influenced by
tricksters, or religious fanatics.
	This last question put a stop to the chat,
for the Colonel was a strong supporter of
Grant in the last election.
	With many wishes for your success, I
sign myself your friend,		MINNIE.


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department. 
To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all 
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
			NEW    CLUB    RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an 
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume, 
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do.

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	   	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club	-	-	-	-         26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
		ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
		Young, selling price, $2 50 	-	- 	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
		up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
		steel engraving of President Brigham
		Young.    handsomely framed, selling
		price $4		-	-	-	-			    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has 
been sent. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT. 
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY, 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street. 
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase. 
DR.  W. H. GROVES, 
								DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street.  Three doors west of 
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City. 
		    Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
		    WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		  A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL. 
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which 
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable 
sources the views honestly entertained by them on 
these questions. 
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them : and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and 
countrywomen in reply. 
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of 
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented 
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each 
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by, 
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced. 
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every 
subject of interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence, 
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading. 
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge. 
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best 
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but 
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department 
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other 
matters of interest connected with their workings, 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the 
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive 
due attention. 
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numorous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto. 
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
  1 Copy one year, 		$2.00		1 Copy six months, 	$1.00
10 Copies one year,		18.00	       10 Copies six months,    9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 
	Address all communications and subscriptions, 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
