[Vol23 | June 1936 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Understanding Our Jacobsen]
Understanding Our Children By Virgima B. Jacobsen ITTLE Jean, age five and oneA) half years, cuddled up close to ~ her mother on the davenport after their evening hour of stories. "Mother, I just love Ronny. I am going to marry him when I grow up."
Jean made this astounding announcement without any sign of embarrassment. Her wise mother was equal to the occasion. 'Does Ronny like you, too?" "Not very much. But I love him.
Sometimes in kindergarten I just go up and squeeze him, I love him so much." "Why do you love him?" asked her mother very much interested in the youthful confidence. "Oh, he is such a nice boy. He is never mean to the girls, and he is polite in school.
Some of the boys are so mean, but Ronny never is."
What a fortunate thing that this wise mother had inspired the confidence of her child at this period in life. How understanding of her to have met the situation as she did, instead of having shamed or repulsed the confidence as many mothers do. The love impulse in children is as natural as breathing. A happy child is surrounded with love; he loves those around him because they love him. Therefore, it is natural for him to look for love and understanding at school, among his playmates no matter where he may be. The child's first love is his mother, or the individual who nourishes and cares for him.
This all-absorbing love usually lasts until the child is two or three years old.
Then he finds new interests in his playmates.
This interest may be in either boys or girls of his same age. Sex preferences play a small part, if any, in their attachments. At this stage they resort to all sorts of tricks to attract the attention and admiration of the other children.
They embrace and kiss simply as an outward expression of affection for each other. HE next stage is reached during the early school life. For the first time they become fully aware of themselves as girls and boys. At this period a decided hostility seems to exist between the two. Boys, particularly, seem to look upon girls with decided disdain; something created purposely to annoy them.
They frequently even resort to cruelty to girls in order to show their disdain to the other boys.
This attitude does not always hold true with separate individuals.
Often little boys of eight and ten prefer and enjoy the companionship of a certain little girl, but when in a crowd of boys they usually assume the gang attitude. WHEN the age of puberty arrives during the early teens, there is a decided change in the interests and attractions.
