[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October]
On the completeness of the set of coins depended the completeness of the happiness of the woman and so, on the completeness of the family circle in a measure depends the happiness of the family, But the big point in this parable is the necessity and value of reclaiming the wayward so that GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER  429 "one may say even to the persistent wrong doer: "How often would I have reclaimed you, but ye would not."  In the parable, the woman lights a candle to aid her in the search; she sweeps.

In reclaiming the wayward there must be light, the best light we can obtain, the light that comes from study, and by faith.

There must be labor, the labor of humility, the labor that brings into activity every means within our reach.

We must sweep with society, that is, reach out and down into the very slums of society for the erring ones, and with a reach that is at once individual and institutional.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Distinguish between the righteousness spoken of in Matt. 6:33 and the self-righteousness of the Pharisees that brought forth the parable of the "Lost Sheep" and of the "Lost Piece of Money." 2. To what kind of people did Jesus refer in speaking of the "ninety and nine that need no repentance?" 3. Discuss the relative value of waiting for people to reform and of helping them to reform. 4. How does the parable of the "Lost Piece of Money" show that we should leave nothing undone that can be done for the reclamation of the wayward? 5. Wherein does the parable of the "Lost Piece of Money" teach that reciamation of the wayward is essential to complete happiness?, 6. Discuss the thought: The abundance of joy coming from the reformation of the wrong-doer is compensative for the sorrow occasioned by the conduct of the transgressor. 7. Compare sinning in order to reform with getting ill for the sake of getting well, or maiming oneself for the joy of being "patched up." 8. Show the perniciousness, or the "damnableness," of the expectation that sin will make a holiday in heaven, or the doctrine of "Sinning to make a holiday in heaven." 9. In the light of Christ's warnings against sin and in the light of his sinless life, is it orthodoxy or heterodoxy to teach that the road through hades to heaven is the one that leads to the highest joy? 10. Show how the parable of "The Lost Sheep" and the "Lost Piece of Money" are still a rebuke to the haughty and are encouragement to the humble.

Work and Business (Second Week in October) GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER * ~~ 431 the same ship with John Winthrop.

John Hawthorne, a son of ? William, was the judge who figured to no small extent in the ill-starred trials of the witches.

Of these two persons Hawthorne writes, "I seem to have a stronger claim to a residence here on account of this grave, bearded, sable-cloaked and steeple-crowned progenitor,?who came so early, with his Bible and his sword, and trode the unworn street with such a stately port, and made so large a figure, as a man of war and peace. * * * His son, too, inherited the persecuting spirit." Hawthorne thought a good deal about this unpleasant family connection, and wrote that this judge of the second generation "made himself so conspicuous in the martyrdom of the witches, that their blood may fairly be said to have left a stain upon him. * * * I, the present writer, as their representative, hereby take shame upon myself for their sakes, and pray that any curse incurred by them?as I have heard, and as the dreary and unprosperous condition of the race, for many a long year back, would argue to exist?may be now and henceforth removed." "Hawthorne lived in Salem in several different houses in turn, and in one of these houses, the house on Herbert Street, where he lived as a boy and as a young man, and twice at different periods afterwards, he wrote, in 1840, 'If ever I should have a biographer he ought to make great mention of this chamber in my memoirs, because here my mind and character were formed.

By and by, the world found me out in my lonely chamber;' and it was of this Herbert Street house that he wrote, 'In this dismal chamber Fame was won.? The author was the sixth in descent from the first New England ancestor and the first to add a "w" to his name.

His father was a sea captain who died of a fever in a foreign port when the child was four years of age.

Hawthorne's mother was twentyseven years old at this time, and for forty years after this sad event she is said to have taken her meals all alone, apart from her three children.

Everybody in that house became accustomed to loneliness.

At the age of fourteen, the boy went to live for a while on the shores of Sebago Lake, Maine.

"I lived in Maine," he said, "like a bird of the air, so perfect was the freedom I enjoyed; but it was there I got my first habit of solitude."" Some telief was given to this atmosphere of sorrow, so permanent in the household, by the boy's two sisters and his indulgent uncles and aunts.

He tended his pets and rambled and read, and seems to have enjoyed life much as other boys do.

He was very shy and very much embarrassed at meeting people.

His solitariness predisposed him to reading, and we are told that Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and Shakespeare's plays were special favorites.

The first was rather unfortunate for a boy of his temperament, 
 as gloom was already too much of his inheritance and environment, Spenser's Faery Queen was the first book he bought with his own money.

The allegory and romance in the poem seem to have taken a real hold of him, for he named his daughter Una after one of Spenser's allegorical heroines, and following a still further suggestion in the Faery Queen called the large cat that came to be her playmate, Lion.

Hawthorne stands in a double relation to the Puritan spirit of his ancestors and birthplace.

Sprung from a Puritan ancestry, he inherits and shares certain Puritan traits, yet in manhood he had outgrown its intolerance and severity; consequently he paints the picture of Puritan life, on the one hand, with a realism and exactness with which it has seldom been painted; and, on the other hand, he expresses the deepest revulsion against the intolerance and reactionary forces of that life.

Mr. Pancoast, in speaking of this matter, says: "When we regard Hawthorne as an inheritor of the past, we see how deeply his life and character are rooted in his native soil.

For generations the family had lived in Salem, a spot which seemed the very heart of New England Puritanism." Nearly all his boyhood and a part of his later years were spent in that old home of his ancestors, and his brooding and keenly sensitive nature was thus forced into contact with the melancholy memories of its past.

He realized all the shortcomings of colonial Puritanism and portrayed its "grim rigidity" with unsparing severity.

Yet we must not think this picture had no bright side.

Salem, like the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, has a Chestnut street.

A very well informed writer on this subject assures us "that there can be no possible appreciation of Salem without going from end to end of Chestnut street.

It is in itself remarkably American.

Among the most interesting streets of America are Chestnut street of Salem, Chestnut street of Boston, Chestnut street of Philadelphia; and each of these has justly been deemed a street with much old American charm of architecture, each has been a stronghold of aristocratic living, each has still much of the flavor of the past, each is a street of houses of beauty and good taste, and all these three Chestnut streets still preserve a great degree of their original felicitousness, even though a greater part of the Chestnut street of Philadelphia has lapsed into business.

Salem is strong in the belief that of the other Chestnut streets, its own has always been the best.

That is no small thing to say of the best street of a little city like Salem.

These houses on Chestnut street were built in the first quarter of the 1800's by the rich merchants of that period, so that we have not only a superb line of mansions well kept up, but also the most superb line of huge trees that over-arch the entire length 
 the war, was cordially received by the villagers, and appeared to be more interested in them than formerly.

His health showed signs of breaking.

Early in 1864, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes advised Hawthorne to take a quiet tour, though neither physician nor patient had any confidence in the outcome.

On this tour Hawthorne started with Pierce as companion.

The end came in Plymouth, New Hampshire, where they had stopped for the night.

He was buried in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Name other trees than the Chestnut tree that reminds one of New England. 2. What trait of human nature was responsible for the hanging of the witches? 3.? Tell the story of The Scarlet Letter. 4. Wherein is the spirit of intolerance made manifest in this story? 5. Which article of Faith of Latter-day Saints argues for tolerance? 6. Give an illustration of tolerance bearing desirable fruit.

Social Service LESSON IV (Fourth Week in October ) Social Aspects of a Community Health Program The significance of health cannot be overemphasized in studying the problems of social adjustment.

The degree of health enjoyed by an individual controls in a large measure his success.

And happiness.

An individual's economic status, his attitude toward the other problems of living, are all influenced by his state of well-being.

Ill health is very often the underlying factor of other social pathology.

Sickness, or a low degree of physical vigor, may be the cause of an unsatisfactory employment record, of bad housekeeping, of the neglect of children, and of the more subtle undermining influences of family life?morbidness, apathy, and discouragement.

Beacuse of the increasing realization of the significance of physical well-being, communities everywhere are undertaking certain definite responsibilities for the protection and preservation of health.

The first responsibility that communities generally assume is that of a protective nature?quarantining individuals with communicable diseases, and supervising 'the water supply.

Later GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER. 435 developments of public health protection are the inspecticn and supervision of the milk supply, of public eating houses, of the disposal of refuse, etc. Invaluable and fundamental as these protective measures are, they are only a first step in a thorough community health program.

Very soon, in any social group, there develops a sense of responsibility for the care and comfort of those who are ill.

Consequently, some facilities are usually created for the care of the sick; physicians, nurses, and hospitals are made available, not only for those who can easily afford medical service, but for those whose incomes cannot cover such items as expensive medical care, In the last few decades public interest in health has been extended even further.' Two developments, both dependent on social treatment, have marked a change in conception of the community towards the health standards of its members.

The first of these comparatively new trends has been the understanding and treatment of undesirable social conditions that impair the patient's chances for recovery, or that contributes to ill health.

A physician may prescribe braces, or glasses, or special diet for a child, but unless there are community facilities for providing this treatment, some children will suffer because of the family's inability to follow the physician's advice.

The breadwinner of a family may be told by the physicians to take a long period of rest, but unless some social agency is willing to assume a financial and supervisory interest, the physician's advice, in many cases, must be ignored.

Financial help and an encouraging friend are-as essential as the actual medical advice in achieving certain recoveries.

The second development in a community health program is _based on a changing emphasis in the medical profession.

The physician no longer feels that his only function is to treat those who are ill.

It is much better economy to preserve health than to restore it when broken.

So frequent physical examinations are advised, not only for the sick, but for those who are apparently well.

The early detection of abnormalities makes 'the treatment simpler and increases the possibility of a complete recovery.

This increased emphasis on the preservation of health has led to several movements to spread medical educatiou.

The lessons of personal hygienic care, the need of proper and sufficient diet, rest and exercise, etc., is being more generally taught by phyisicians and educational institutions.

School children are weighed and measured, regularly, and are early instructed in hygiene.

Mothers are sought out by public nurses or are urged to attend health stations, so that infants and pre-school children may be examined and thus abnormalities corrected. 436 ~~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The program of health preservation is as much a" social function as a medical one.

The existence of a health examination clinic, for instance, in a city does not mean that those who most need the examination and advice will seek it out.

A certain fear of medical institutions, and a natural faith that most humans have that their own illness is not serious, make it difficult to have health examinations as general as they should be.

What is often needed to convert a person to attend a clinic or call on a physician is an interested person who is skillful in understandny people, in overcoming prejudices, and in changing attitudes.

The same timidity and fear that keeps people from securing medical advice, often makes them reluctant to follow the advice after it has been given.

From-both a practical and ethical viewpoint the physician cannot over-persuade patients to follow his advice.

It often requires a social worker, a nurse, or an interested friend to encourage the patient to place himself under treatment.

A mother of several children was sure that her youngest child, who had some obvious impairment of his legs, would "grow out of" his difficulty.

It first took hours of patient and kindly urging to have the mother take the child to a physician, and many more hours of skillful persuading to secure the mother's consent to have the child wear the prescribed braces.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is the first function of a Board of Health? 2. What other health agencies are established in your community? (City, County, or State). 3. Which function as public protective agencies?

Which care for the sick?

Which aim to preserve health? 4. Why is it difficult to change a person's attitude toward his own illness and the need of treatment?
