[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Helen | Author: Christensen]
Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society ON January 2, 1957, Helen Woodruff Anderson was appointed to the office of Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society. Years of devoted Church service, academic training, and natural endowment qualify Sister Anderson for this important calling. Helen Anderson, a gentle-voiced and gracious woman, evidenced, even in youth, personality traits which qualify her to fulfill her present assignment with distinction and honor. Humility, a subtle sense of humor, and a marked consideration for others have endeared her to those with whom she associates intimately and to all who have known her capable leadership. Hers is a judicious, quiet strength, with an element of self-restraint which commands respect; yet she is friendly and sociable, with a genuine interest in others. Her love for family and friends is apparent from the unselfish service she renders them. In tracing the factors which have influenced her life, we recall that spirituality, devotion, and humility are her heritage. Her paternal grandfather was President Wilford Woodruff, fourth President of the Church. The memory of his humility and devotion has been for Helen a guiding light through the years. She is a daughter of the late Helen May Winters and Abraham O. Woodruff, a member of the Council of Page 152 HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON the Twelve. The early death of her parents left their four young children parentless. Fortunately, the homes into which they were welcomed were kindly and understanding. After the death of their paternal grandmother, they made their home with President Heber J. Grant and Augusta Winters Grant, a sister of their mother. Here Helen matured in an atmosphere of refinement and spiritual integrity. She always speaks lovingly and appreciatively of the influence of this home in shaping her ideals and attitudes toward life. She recalls such counsel from Aunt Augusta which she feels has in- HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON fluenced her attitude and action: "Always do a little more than is expected of you; learn to enjoy the things you are required to do; selfpreparation and trust in the Lord are companion requirements for success in any assignment." Sister Anderson attended the L. D. S. High School and was graduated from the University of Utah with a major in home economics. In 1925 she married Alexander Pyper Anderson, who had filled a mission in New Zealand and later was bishop of Waterloo Ward for thirteen years. 'They have five children, four daughters and one son. All are married except Lynda, a high school student. Helen loves Relief Society and understands the many facets of its program, having given it many years of devoted service. It has been joyful service, for her testimony is 153 strong, being faith-grounded and maintained by constant activity. Under President Amy Brown Lyman, she worked in the general Relief Society offices in charge of employment. She has been a visiting teacher, stake board member, stake counselor, and president of Big Cottonwood Stake. Relief Society. She has also served as group leader in the employment division of Jordan Valley Welfare Region. Since 1950 she has been a member of the general board of Relief Society, where she has become recognized for her ability and dependability and loved by her co-workers. As each new door of increased responsibility opens, Helen W. Anderson steps humbly forward, inspired by her rich heritage, and sustained by her great abilities and her unwavering faith. ~ i -2- ove Begets ove é 'TE is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love — show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold.... "I do not dwell upon your faults, and you shall not upon mine. Charity, which is love, covereth a multitude of sins, and I have often covered up all the faults among you; but the prettiest thing is to have no faults at all. We should cultivate a meek, quiet and peaceable spirit. "... We should gather all the good and true principles in the world and treasure them up, or we shall not come out true 'Mormons.' " (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 316.)