[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: 158 Margaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Treasurer Leone O. Jacobs]
sen and  others  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities; her  training,  at  Brigham 
Young  University;  and  her  service 
as  a  member  of  the  M.I.A.  General 
Board  from  1953-57  ^^  ^^^  ^^^ 
Hive  and  Special  Interest  Commit- 
tees. 
Sister  Parker  has  a  strong  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel.  She  is  hard- 
working, thorough,  sincere,  coa- 
scientious,  and  efficient.  She  is 
pleasant  and  helpful  and  loves  to 
work  with  people.  She  has  accept- 
ed this  new  assignment  with  true 
humility  and  dependence  upon  the 
Lord.  Those  who  know  her  and 
have  worked  with  her  are  confident 
of  her  success  in  this  great  new 
calling. 
cJhe  QJamilyi    LLnit 
^^'HTHERE  is  no  substitute  for  a  righteous  home.  That  may  not  be  so 
considered  in  the  world,  but  it  is  and  ought  to  be  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  family  is  the  unit  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  That  we  believe,  and  if  we  are  fortunate  enough,  through  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  go  back  and  re-enter  the 
celestial  kingdom  to  dwell  with  him,  we  will  find  that  we  are  his  sons 
and  his  daughters,  that  he  is  in  very  deed  our  Father..  As  Paul  has  stated 
it,  we  are  his  offspring,  and  through  obedience  to-  every  principle  of 
eternal  truth  we  will  go  back  to  be  his  sons  and  his  daughters.. 
'Taul  has  said  and  prayed,  speaking  of  the  mission,  of  Christ  and  his 
obedience  to  him: 
t 
For  this  cause  I  bow  my  knees  unto  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Of 
whom  the  whole  family  in- heaven  and  earth  is  named  (Eph.  3:14-15). 
''If  we  get  back  into  that  great  kingdom  aftef  the  earth  is  redeemed, 
we  will  find  ourselves  members  of.  the  great  family  of  God,  and  he  will  be 
our  Father. 
''He  said,  you  know,  to  John: 
He  that  overcometh   shall  inherit  all   things;  and  I   will  be   his   God,   and  he 
shall  be  my  son  (Rev.  21:7}. 
— President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Conferenc©  Address,  October  3,  1948,  page  152

MARY  VOGEL   CAMERON 
lliaryi    Vogel  Cameron  Appointed  to   Qeneral  (Board 
Vesta  P.  Crawford 
Associate  Editor,  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
counselor  in  the  presidency.  For 
nineteen  years  she  served  as 
a  missionary  guide  on  Temple 
Square,  where  she  deepened  and 
strengthened  her  testimony  of  the 
gospel,  as  well  as  explaining  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church  to  many 
who  have  since  become  members. 
Her  Relief  Society  work  has  in- 
cluded teaching  the  theology  les- 
sons in  her  ward,  and  a  long  period 
of  service  on  the  stake  Relief  Society 
board. 
Mary  is  an  ideal  mother  and 
homemaker.  A  spiritual  atmosphere, 
loving  devotion,  beauty,  and  order 
permeate  her  home.  She  was  mar- 
ried to  Donald  Cameron  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  and  they  are  the  par- 
ents of  three  daughters:  Anna  (Mrs. 
Dale  S.  Worden),  Louise  (Mrs. 
Robert  K.  Anderson),  and  Con- 
stance, a  sophomore  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah.  Eight  grandchildren 
have  brought  much  joy  to  Sister 
Cameron. 
The  gospel  has  always  been  a 
guiding  light  to  Mary;  she  loves  to 
study  the  scriptures,  believes  in  the 
power  of  prayer,  and  has  a  deep  and 
abiding  testimony.  She  is  endowed 
with  wisdom,  understanding,  dis- 
cernment, and  the  priceless  ability 
of  instilling  faith  and  devotion  in 
others.  She  is  an  eloquent  and  sin- 
cere speaker  and  writes  with  integ- 
rity and  artistry. 
Now,  in  wider  fields  of  service, 
her  intellectual  and  spiritual  bless- 
ings will  be  extended  to  all  the 
sisters  of  Relief  Society,  whose  lives 
will  be  enriched  by  association  with 
Mary  Cameron. 
M' 
[ARY  Vogel  Cameron,  appointed 
to  the  general  board  of  Relief 
Society,  January  9,  1957,  comes  to 
her  new  calling  well  prepared  by 
heritage,  training,  and  attributes  of 
personality.  She  was  born  in  Pro- 
vo,  Utah,  to  George  and  Martha 
Roberts  Vogel,  graduated  from 
Ogden  High  School,  and  attended 
the  University  of  Utah  and  the 
University  of  California.  As  a  teach- 
er in  the  schools  of  Weber  County 
and  Jordan  District,  her  radiant 
personality  and  her  many  talents 
were  further  developed. 
The  rich  promises  of  her  gospel 
heritage  found  expresson  early  in 
Mary's  life  of  devoted  service.  She 
has  held  executive  and  teaching  po- 
sitions in  all  the  auxiliaries  of  the 
Church  officered  by  women,  and  for
