[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Be a | Author: Nielen]
Be a Relief Society Magazine '*Promoter'"' June Nielsen Assistant to the Editor (Talk given at The Relief Society Magazine Department, Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1956.) OU are promoters—promoters of a good cause, The Relief Society Magazine, which can bring inspiration, beauty, pleasure, and knowledge to the reader with a seeking mind and an understanding heart. To "promote" means to move forward. As Latter-day Saints who believe in the principles of eternal progression, we may all continue to move forward. To help you, as promoters, move forward in your work as Magazine representatives and to help you with your problems, we have gleaned suggestions and ideas from those stakes whose promotion of the Magazine was outstanding last year (1955): first, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions during the year; second, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions in stakes making the honor roll this year and not the previous year; and third, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions having all wards one hundred per cent this year and not last year. Letters from those stake Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives tell us that it was by faith. Because of faithful ward and stake representatives and other officers, they achieved their goals. I think a concise definition of faith is: belief put into action. We might take the definition of belief from Page 188 the dictionary, which is "mental certainty." Faith is, then, mental certainty put into action. We find, in most of these stakes and wards, that definite goals were set for Magazine subscriptions. These goals varied — some stakes set one hundred per cent in all wards, others 150 per cent for the stake. 'These goals became certainties in the minds of the ward and stake representatives and officers as they went forth to accomplish the goals. 'They proceeded to put those beliefs into action throughout the year. We want to share with you some of the ways which were used to promote the Magazine. After the goals were set, in several of the stakes all of the stake officers were urged to emphasize the Magazine as they visited the various wards. 'Thus, the Magazine representative received the help and encouragement of the entire stake board. Some stakes used charts which showed the status of the wards in the Magazine campaign. Charts were displayed at union meetings. Regular Magazine departments were held in union meetings in the successful stakes last year. In these departments, topics concerning why and how to sell the Magazine were discussed. Promotional ideas which the individual ward representatives were using were exchanged. One stake BE A MAGAZINE PROMOTER reported they used the preliminary time of union meeting once each year for Magazine promotion. In this program, the ward representatives participated and were recognized for their behind-the-scenes work. 'This proved to be a very effective way of encouraging ward representatives. PERSONAL contact with the Relief Society sisters was emphasized as the greatest, single element in increasing subscriptions to the Magazine. In most of the stakes from which we have received letters, the representatives tried to make personal contact in every home in the ward. In one stake a letter was sent to each home. This letter told about The Relief Society Magazine and the goal which had been set. It was reported that the response was very encouraging. One stake representative stated that she never took The Relief Society Magazine before she was asked to be stake representative—simply because no one had ever asked her to subscribe. One stake reported that the stake representative visited Relief Society 189 meetings in all the wards with the permission of the stake Relief Society president and gave a short talk using the Magazine as a visual aid. Another stated that their representatives were "Magazine-minded," that they never went any place without their subscription receipt books because they found so many opportunities to use them. The ways of achieving the goals and putting your beliefs into action are many. 'These are a few promotional ideas that have proved effective in stakes. Some of the elements which I think could make up the word "promote" and which I think will bring success if acted upon are: P—plans—set your goals. R—teadiness—be willing and prepared. O—opportunities—make your own opportunities. M—motivations—motives mean action. O—other opportunities—be '"'Magazineminded." T—talk—the way of making personal contacts. E—enthusiasm—it is contagious and effective. No matter where you are, you can move forward or promote. Be a promoter of every good thing.