[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 42 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
ninety-one;  and  the  following  wom- 
en who  have  reached  their  ninetieth 
birthdays:  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Leishman 
Green,  Wellsville,  Utah;  Mrs.  Ma- 
tilda Tate,  Pomona,  California;  Mrs. 
Mary  Newman,  Vernon,  Utah;  Mrs. 
Sarah  Lucretian  Cox  Stout,  St. 
George,  Utah;  Mrs.  Alice  Cowans, 
Tooele,  Utah;  Mrs.  Amelia  Rich- 
ards Taylor,  Provo,  Utah. 
(B 
oy 
Elsie  McKinnon  Strachan 
You  will  find  him  there 
In  the  golden  hght, 
Making  talk  with  the  wind 
And  a  paper  kite; 
Or  building  a  house 
In  the  apple  tree 
With  a  ''keep  out"  sign 
Where  the  door  should  be; 
Or  look  for  him 
In  a  pirate's  den, 
The  boy  of  nine 
Going  on  ten.

FOR Fireside 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  STUDY  COURSE  AIDS 
1.  Shakespeare  Major  Plays  and  the  Sonnets 
Edited  by  G.  B.  Harrison 
This  handsomely  bound  volume  contains  28  plays  of  Shakespeare, 
his  sonnets,  and  over  100  pages  of  introductory  material  on  his 
life,  on  the  Elizabethan   theater,   and   England  in   his  day. 
$6.00 
(by  mail — postage)  .20 
2.  Documentary  History  of  the  Church— Vol.  IV 
This  volume  begins  with  the  departure  of  the  Twelve  for  Eng- 
land .  .  .  the  Prophet's  journey  to  Washington  .  .  .  and 
concludes  with  a  report  on  the  progress  of  the  Nauvoo   Temple. 
$3.50 
(Postage)  .15 
3.  Documentary    History    of    the    Church— Seven 
Volume  Set 
This  carefully  documented  work  is  taken  from  the  manuscripts, 
records,  and  noLes  of  Joseph  Smith  and  other  early  Church 
leaders.     Introduction    and    notes   by   B.    H.   Roberts. 
$14.00 
(postage  for  set)  .65 
4.  Dictionary  of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
George  Reynolds 
This  invaluable  aid  gives  immediate,  easy-to-find  information  on 
names,  places  and  other  data  contained  in  The  Book  of  Mormon. 
It's  a  wonderful  help  to  inquirers  into  the  faith,  students,  and 
all  who  wish  to  grow  in  further  understanding  of  The  Book 
of  Mormon. 
$3.50 
5.  Commentary  on  The  Book  of  Mormon— Vol.  I 
George  Reynolds  and  Janne  M.  Sjodahl 
A  concise,  illuminating  and  complete  commentary  on  the  first 
part  of  The  Book  of  Mormon,  from  First  Nephi  to  the  Book 
of  Omni. 
$5.00 
6.  Commentary  on  The  Book  of  Mormon— Vol.  II 
George  Reynolds  and  Janne  M.  Sjodahl 
An  excellent  commentary  for  students  and  readers  —  includes 
the  Words  of  Mormon  and  the  Book  of  Mosiah.  It  gives  rich 
background   material    and   interprets    scriptural   passages. 
$4.00 
OFFICIAL  PUBLISHERS       yrrrrr^^^^  TO  THE  LDS  CHURCH 
(UK  if  MORMON 
DQ5Qn?tlSgBD0h  to, 
44   Eost    South   Temple  ••   Salt    lake   Ciiv     Utah 
1          DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 
I           44  East  South  Temple  Street 
1          Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
1           Gentlemen: 
j               Enclosed    you     w\\\     find     .... 
1           
 charge    to    my    account 
[          books:          12          3          4 
1           Amount  enclosed  $ 
 
1          Name                                      
  check      money    order          j 
for    the    encircled     (numbered)          i 
5          6                                                    ] 
!          Address    
 
1           City 
 Zone      State            i 
[                                 Residents  of  Utah  include  2%  sales  tax.                                j

HAPPY  FAMILIES 
Do  It  Together 
Fun  is  a  family  affair  when  Ralph,  Marion,  and  their  three  children  get  together  tor  an  evening 
of  games  in  front  of  the  fire.  The  Roberts  family  like  their  home  —  and  they've  made  plans  to  keep  it 
.  .  .  through  Beneficial's  Mortgage  Cancellation  Insurance. 
Beneficial  Mortgage  Cancellation  Insurance  —  your  best  bet  for  householding. 
This  plan  takes  the  worry  out  of  home  buying. 
It  provides  cash  for  one  of  the  best  gifts  man  can 
leave  his  family — a  clear,  debt-free  home. 
You  have  your  choice  of  several  plans.  For  ex- 
ample, a  decreasing  term  policy  would  pay  up  the 
entire  mortgage  if  anything  happened  to  you  during 
the  first  year,  or  it  would  always  give  your  family 
more  than  enough  to  take  care  of  the  entire  unpaid 
balance  at  any  time  during  the  mortgage  period. 
This  policy  terminates  with  the  mortgage.  Other 
policies  not  only  protect  your  home,  but  also  build 
cash  values  that  can  be  used  lor  your  own  retirement, 
or  you  can  choose  continued  low-cost  life  insurance 
protection  after  the  mortgage  is  paid  off. 
Your  experienced  Beneficial  agent  will  recom- 
mend the  best  plan  for  you.  Call  him  today,  or  write 
to  the  address  below. 
BENEFICIAL  LIFE 
David  O.  McKay,  Pres. 
-    /      r 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
