[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 40 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Ballif]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes from New Zealand Arta R. Ballif]
WOMEN  ARE  WORSHIPERS  OF  GOD 
149 
The  Jews  had  their  synagogues  and 
women  took  part  in  holy  service. 
We  learn  that  the  "Mother  Syna- 
gogue" gathered  the  women  togeth- 
er, and  gave  the  women  their  duties. 
To  some  she  gave  cloth  to  sew  that 
no  maiden  in  Israel  might  go  to 
her  husband  lacking  a  bridal  chest. 
A  Jewish  Code  has  come  down  to 
us  giving  a  description  of  the  duties 
of  women.    They  are: 
Feed  the  hungry,  and  give  the  thirsty  to 
drink. 
Clothe  the  naked  and  shelter  the  home- 
less. 
Visit  the  sick,  bury  the  dead  and  give 
comfort  to  the  mourner. 
Support  the  widow  and  instruct  the 
fatherless. 
Ransom  the  captive. 
Make  garments  for  the  orphan  and  pro- 
vide for  the  betrothed  maiden. 
We  are  told  that  legend  throws 
this  code  back  to  Abraham  to  whom 
it  was  revealed.  When  it  was  read 
to  the  people  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Sinai,  they  exclaimed,  ''We  hear 
and  we  obey." 
COME  of  the  most  beautiful 
stories  of  all  time  are  found  in 
the  Holy  Bible.  In  fact,  the  Bible 
becomes  the  masterpiece  of  history 
in  giving  us  the  story  of  the 
peoples  before  Christ,  our  Redeem- 
er, was  born.  Concerning  women, 
we  find  in  the  Bible  women  of  the 
truest  nobility.  The  Book  of  Ruth 
is  considered  the  most  beautiful 
short  story  ever  written,  and  then 
we  have,  to  mention  a  few  other 
women:  Sarah,  Rebecca,  Rachel, 
Deborah,  Esther,  Martha,  Mary, 
Mary  Magdalene,  Naomi,  and  the 
Queen  of  Sheba.  These  women 
''form  the  most  remarkable  female 
portrait  gallery  in  existence." 
The  beautiful  idyl  known  as  the 
Book  of  Ruth,  is  a  story  of  a  family 
that  lived  in  Bethlehem.  There 
came  a  famine  over  the  land  at  one 
time.  The  fruit  of  the  orchards 
dried  up  and  the  fields  yielded  but 
a  scarcity  of  harvest.  Much  suffer- 
ing came  to  the  people  everywhere. 
One  Elimelech  with  his  wife,  Na- 
omi, went  off  to  greener  fields  into 
the  land  of  Moab.  They  had  two 
sons  who  grew  up  among  the 
strange  people  of  Moab.  In  time 
they  married  two  Moabite  maid- 
ens. Sorrow  came  to  the  house  of 
Elimelech,  for  the  father  and  the 
two  sons  died,  and  the  three  widows 
were  left  unprovided  for  and  un- 
protected. Naomi  decided  to  go 
back  to  her  people  in  Bethlehem. 
She  did  not  expect  the  sons'  wives 
to  go  with  her,  but  Ruth  chose  to 
follow  the  mother,  and  the  two 
made  their  way  around  the  Dead 
Sea,  and  came  to  the  old  home  in 
Bethlehem.  Beautiful  were  the 
words  of  Ruth,  when  her  mother 
Naomi  entreated  her  to  remain  with 
her  people.  "Intreat  me  not  to  leave 
thee,  or  to  return  from  following 
after  thee,"  said  she,  "for  whither 
thou  goest,  I  will  go;  and  where 
thou  lodgest,  I  will  lodge:  thy  peo- 
ple shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God 
my  God:  Where  thou  diest,  will  I 
die,  and  there  will  I  be  buried." 
Ruth  gleaned  in  the  fields  and 
won  the  heart  of  the  rich  Boaz, 
and  became  his  wife.  Children 
blessed  their  union.  Their  first- 
born, a  boy,  was  named  Obed,  and 
he  became  the  father  of  Jesse,  whose 
son  was  King  David.  "Thus  the 
maiden  of  Moab  became  the  moth- 
er of  many  kings  and  the  ancestress 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world."

150  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1957 
TjyiTH  reverent  thought  we  turn  the   divinity  of  man,  and  he  was 
to    the    second    chapter    of  impressed  with  the  great  characters 
St.  Luke  in  the  New  Testament  and  of  history  who  seemed  to  speak  at 
read  about  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ,  times  the  words  of  God  and  to  en- 
our  Savior.     It  is  another  exquisite  act  God's  holy  purposes.  This  was 
bit  of  history.  the  cause  of  his  unique  greatness. 
Joseph    and    Mary    hved    in    the  When  he  read  about  the  visit  of 
little  town  of  Nazareth.     It  was  a  the  angel  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
strange    circumstance    that    caused  directing  him   in   the  discovery  of 
them  to  go  to  Bethlehem  at  the  the  gold  plates,  he  saw  something 
time  that  Mary  was  to  become  a  of   the   eternal  and   divine   in   the 
mother.    According  to  the  edict  of  story,  and  he  often  quoted  Michael 
the  Emperor  Augustus  Caesar,  all  Angelo:      ''Beauty   cannot  be   sep- 
people  of  Palestine  were  to  go  to  arated  from  eternity."  God  became 
the  place  to  which  by  descent  they  his  immutable  help.    As  one  looks 
belonged,  to  be  enrolled  in  a  gen-  at  the  angel,  one  is  impressed  with 
eral  census.  Joseph  and  Mary  chose  the    thought   that   it   is   a    perfect 
the  city  of  their  fathers  as  the  place  creation,   that  a  truth  was   in  the 
where  they  should  register.  The  city  mind  of  the  sculptor.     It  was  his 
was  full  of  people.    Only  one  place  ardent  faith  and  warmth  of  enthus- 
was  left  to  rest.    ''And  she  brought  iasm  that  made  him  see  something 
forth  her  firstborn  son,  and  wrapped  of  the  divine  in  the  angel  Moroni's 
him  in  swaddling  clothes,  and  laid  coming  to  the  earth, 
him  in  a  manger;  because  there  was 
no    room    for    them    in    the    inn."  ^^T  now  turn  the  key  for  women," 
The  angels  were  round  him  and  his  said  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
birth.  They  worshiped  the  Newborn,  on  the  seventeenth  day  of  March, 
and  said  with  one  accord:   "Glory  1842,  when  he  organized  the  Relief 
to   God   in   the  highest,   on   earth  Society  of  the  Church  in  Nauvoo, 
peace,  good  will  toward  men."  The  and  sent  it  forth  on  its  mission  of 
stories   of  the   Magi   and   the   star  love.     It  was  the   beginning   of  a 
of   Bethlehem,   of   the  angels   and  better  age,  and  a  more  appreciative 
the  shepherds,  as  given  in  the  simple  understanding  of  the  divine  mission 
narrative  of   St.  Matthew   and   St.  of  woman  in  the  world.     She  was 
Luke,  go  to  make  the  story  of  the  to  take  her  place  in  the  work  of 
birth  of  the  Savior  the  most  beauti-  bestowing   upon    mankind   the   in- 
ful  idyl  of  all  literature.  creasing   consciousness   of   the   im- 
Coming  to   our  own  history,   it  mortality  of  spiritual  values.  Wom- 
was   the   mother   of   Cyrus   Dallin  an  was  to  take  her  place  by  the  side 
who  inspired  her  son  to  make  the  of  man  to  play  her  part  in  the  serv- 
angel  on  the  center  tower  of  the  ice  and  calling  of  God.  In  the  early 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  She  told  him  the  days  of  America,  woman  was  the 
story  of  the  coming  from  heaven  helpmate  of  man  in  the  hard  labor 
of    the    angel    Moroni    to    Joseph  of  those  times,  but  in  a  different 
Smith,  and  it  gave  Dallin  the  inspira-  manner  from  that  of  today.  Wives 
tion  for  creating  the  angel  Moroni,  and  daughters  made  clothing  in  the 
It  was  his  nature  to  wonder  about  homes,  helped  to  wield  the  ax,  and

WOMEN  ARE  WORSHIPERS  OF  GOD 
151 
carried  rifles  to  protect  the  village 
and  home.  When  the  husband  was 
absent  in  the  fields,  the  wife  stood 
on  guard  in  the  cabin,  always  with 
eyes  alert  for  prowling  Indians.  The 
frontier  of  America  bred  valiant 
women,  who  were  likewise  heroines 
of  the  spirit  in  which  they  were  no 
less  intrepid. 
Today,  woman  has  been  lifted  out 
of  much  of  her  drudgery  of  a  hun- 
dred years  ago,  and  the  Latter-day 
Saint  people  have  done  a  far-reach- 
ing work  in  establishing  the  proper 
attitude  of  society  toward  the 
"mothers  of  men."  From  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Church  in  1830,  women 
have  been  given  equal  rights  with 
their  husbands  in  the  home  and 
social  group.  In  the  march  of  the 
saints  to  the  West,  women  and 
children  suffered,  and  the  mortality 
among  them  was  large,  but  hus- 
bands and  sons  had  a  sacred  trust 
to  protect  them  and  to  ameliorate 
their  sufferings. 
The  pioneer  women  of  the  Ameri- 
can frontier  were  often  the  leaders 
in  thought  and  promoters  of  educa- 
tional institutions.  A  woman 
opened  the  first  school  in  the  West 
for  the  education  of  Indian  children. 
Mary  Jane  Dilworth  taught  the  first 
school  in  Utah,  and  Camilla  Cobb 
opened  the  first  kindergarten,  which 
was  among  the  first  kindergartens  in 
America.  Both  were  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  Relief  Society  of  their 
respective  wards.  Hundreds  of  such 
women.  Relief  Society  sisters,  have 
given  their  lives  to  the  uplift  of  hu- 
manity. They  have  looked  after 
the  poor,  comforted  the  sick  and 
unfortunate,  and  have  ministered 
comfort  when  death  has  taken  loved 
ones.  'Tike  ministering  angels, 
they  go  today  into  homes  and  com- 
fort the  sorrowful,  relieve  the  dis- 
tressed, feed  the  hungry,  clothe  the 
naked,  wait  upon  the  sick,  and 
scatter  glad  news  and  cheer  along 
the  road  of  life." 
The  work  of  the  members  of  the 
great  organization  for  women  found- 
ed over  one  hundred  years  ago, 
goes  on  from  day  to  day.  Theirs 
is  a  happiness  deep  and  lasting. 
Theirs  is  an  inherited  ideal  unique 
in  the  history  of  America.  They 
radiate  sunshine  and  joy  when  the 
clouds  descend.  Each  one  in  her 
sphere  has  a  dream  of  fine  spiritual 
value  as  expressed  by  Emily  Dickin- 
son: 
If  I  can  stop  one  heart  from  breaking, 
I  shall  not  live  in  vain; 
If  I  can  ease  one  life  the  aching, 
Or  cool  one  pain, 
Or  help  one  fainting  robin 
Unto  his  nest  again, 
I  shall  not  live  in  vain. 
[Preface  to  a   C^nlendar 
Lad  W.  Hill 
However  swiftly  days  take  wing  and  go — 
Like  birds,  like  soaring  wind  along  the  sky — 
How  singingly  the  swiftest  hours  fly! 
Oh,  lift  an  inner  listening,  and  know 
The  song  of  time  spun  lark-voiced,  and  as  high- 
A  moment's  brief  remembrance  rushing  by, 
Its  echo  feather-fallen  onto  snow.  .  .  .