[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Walton]
[POETRY The Vastness of Space— Frontispiece Katherine P. Walton]
have  a  flair  for  poetry  or  short 
stories;  or  she  may  like  to  write  the 
factual  or  the  travel-type  article. 
One  of  the  main  purposes  of  the 
Magazine  is  to  stimulate  and  in- 
crease interest  in  the  literary  talents 
of  women. 
A  young  woman  also  finds  the 
opportunity  to  serve  in  many  dif- 
ferent ways.  She  may  be  able  to 
help  in  the  accomplishment  of  a 
welfare  project  or  she  may  realize 
the  joy  which  comes  from  compas- 
sionate service  she  has  given  to  a 
sister. 
From  her  associations  with  older 
women  of  the  society,  she  gains 
wisdom  and  insight  in  life's  situa- 
tions, and  a  feeling  of  oneness  with 
her  sisters,  an  understanding  that 
life  itself  is  unchanging  despite  ex- 
terior conditions.

EDITORIAL  175 
Young  women   who   find  them-  sion  and  service,  it  would  be  a  price- 
selves  asking  the  question:    ''Why  less  gift  which  is  not  found  in  any 
should  I  be  interested  in  Relief  So-  club  or  other  activity, 
ciety?"    may    well    consider    these 
values.     If  the  legacy  of  Relief  So-  May  the  young  women  of  this 
ciety  to  the  young  women  of  the  generation  claim  this  gift  of  oppor- 
Church     included     nothing    more  tunities  by  actively  participating  in 
than  an  opportunity  for  self-expres-  Relief  Society.— J.N. 
uieuef  Soctetif  Singing    llLothers  [Present    ifiusic 
(cJver    I  Lationai   {jDroaacasting  cJeieviSion    iletworn 
CIX  hundred  Singing  Mothers  from  Salt  Lake  and  Utah  County  areas 
sang  'The  Twenty-third  Psalm/'  with  music  by  Franz  Schubert,  on 
the  "Wide  Wide  World  Program"  which  presented  a  Salute  to  the 
American  Woman,  over  the  National  Broadcasting  Television  Network, 
Sunday,  January  6,  1957,  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  The  event,  originat- 
ing with  KSL-TV,  was  telecast  over  200  stations  to  an  estimated  thirty 
million  listeners  and  viewers.  Representing  nearly  thirty-one  thousand  Sing- 
ing Mothers  throughout  the  Church,  these  sisters,  under  the  baton  of  Dr. 
Florence  J.  Madsen  of  the  Relief  Society  general  board,  and  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  rendered  the  sacred  anthem  with  great  sincerity 
and  accomplished  musicianship. 
The  Singing  Mothers  appeared  at  the  conclusion  of  the  "Wide  Wide 
World  Program.*'  They  were  introduced  by  commentator  Dave  Gerroway, 
who  spoke  as  follows: 
But  in  the  West  one  morfe  chapter  is  still  to  be  told.  We  visit  with  600  women 
who  tell  the  story  in  song.  Our  live  cameras  are  scanning  the  spires  of  the  Mormon 
Temple  and  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  the  voices  you  hear 
singing  praises  to  the  Lord  over  our  broad  land  are  the  combined  chorus  of  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — mothers, 
wives,  and  daughters — out  of  their  homes  in  the  valley  of  Salt  Lake  and  the  mountains 
beyond. 
In  her  letter  to  the  stakes  represented,  thanking  the  Singing  Mothers 
for  their  lovely  and  enthusiastic  performance,  President  Belle  S.  Spafford 
expressed  her  appreciation: 
Not  only  did  they  perform  masterfully  under  the  able  baton  of  Sister  Madsen,  but 
through  their  radiant  countenances  did  they  portray  most  impressively  the  spirit  and 
beauty  of  Latter-day  Saint  womanhood.  We  feel  confident  that  through  this  perform- 
ance countless  numbers  both  in  and  out  of  the  Church  will  have  increased  their  ap- 
preciation of  the  cultural  opportunities  afforded  through  our  great  organization.  We 
feel  also,  that  many  other  Singing  Mothers  choruses  will  have  been  encouraged  in 
their  endeavors.

176  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1957 
Many  letters  of  appreciation  have  been  received  at  the  general  offices 
of  Relief  Society  commending  the  excellent  and  appealing  rendition  of 
the  great  Psalm,  and  expressing  admiration  for  the  unity  of  effort  and 
effect  in  the  singing  of  the  Mothers,  as  well  as  their  lovely  appearance 
as  a  group. 
In  a  congratulatory  letter  to  President  Spalford,  Herbert  Sussan,  pro- 
ducer of  ''Wide  Wide  World/'  commented: 
I  certainly  hope  you  agree  that  all  the  efforts  were  worthwhile.  We  were  all  most 
impressed  by  the  great  quality  of  the  performance.  Even  more  so,  the  faith  and  warmth 
reflected  in  the  faces  of  the  singers  was  most  inspiring  to  our  vast  television  audience. 
And,  in  a  letter  to  Sister  Madsen,  Mr.  Sussan  expressed  his  apprecia- 
tion for  the  quality  of  the  music  presented: 
I  should  like  to  congratulate  you  and  the  wonderful  organization  that  you  con- 
ducted on  the  January  6th  Wide  Wide  World  program  for  the  most  effective  pre- 
sentation of  its  type  that  I  have  ever  seen  on  television.  Musically,  we  were  thrilled 
by  the  high  quality  of  their  performance. 
This  event,  shared  by  many  people  in  all  parts  of  our  country,  was 
a  heartfelt  and  significant  occasion  for  the  Singing  Mothers  and  for  Relief 
Society  women  in  all  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church— an  oppor- 
tunity to  present  a  message  of  faith  through  the  faces  and  the  voices  of 
the  Singing  Mothers.  Their  devotion  and  their  performance  will  long  be 
remembered. 
J/innouncing  the  Special  J/ipril  Short  Storif  cJ^ssae 
T^HE  April  1957  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  will  be  the  special 
short  story  number,  with  four  outstanding  stories  being  presented. 
Look  for  these  stories  in  April: 
''Mountain  Vacation,"  by  Deone  R.  Sutherland 
"New  Shoes  for  Flo,"  by  Wanda  F.  Hilton 
"Two  of  a  Kind,"  by  Maude  Rubin 
"Going  Modern,"  by  Frances  C.  Yost
