[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Poem | Title: Preface to a Calendar| Author: Lael W. Hill]
Unto  his  nest  again, 
I  shall  not  live  in  vain. 
[Preface  to  a   C^nlendar 
Lad  W.  Hill 
However  swiftly  days  take  wing  and  go — 
Like  birds,  like  soaring  wind  along  the  sky — 
How  singingly  the  swiftest  hours  fly! 
Oh,  lift  an  inner  listening,  and  know 
The  song  of  time  spun  lark-voiced,  and  as  high- 
A  moment's  brief  remembrance  rushing  by, 
Its  echo  feather-fallen  onto  snow.  .  .  .

dielen    viyoodruff  J/Lnderson  Kyippolnted  Second 
(counselor  m   (general  IPresidencii  of  [Reuef  Society 
Alberta  H.  Christensen 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
f\^  January  2,  1957,  Helen  Wood- 
ruff Anderson  was  appointed  to 
the  office  of  Second  Counselor  in 
the  General  Presidency  of  Relief 
Society.  Years  of  devoted  Church 
service,  academic  training,  and 
natural  endowment  qualify  Sister 
Anderson  for  this  important  calling. 
Helen  Anderson,  a  gentle-voiced 
and  gracious  woman,  evidenced, 
even  in  youth,  personality  traits 
which  qualify  her  to  fulfill  her  pres- 
ent assignment  with  distinction  and 
honor.  Humility,  a  subtle  sense  of 
humor,  and  a  marked  consideration 
for  others  have  endeared  her  to 
those  with  whom  she  associates  inti- 
mately and  to  all  who  have  known 
her  capable  leadership.  Hers  is  a 
judicious,  quiet  strength,  with  an 
element  of  self-restraint  which  com- 
mands respect;  yet  she  is  friendly 
and  sociable,  with  a  genuine  inter- 
est in  others.  Her  love  for  family 
and  friends  is  apparent  from  the 
unselfish  service  she  renders  them. 
In  tracing  the  factors  which  have 
influenced  her  life,  we  recall  that 
spirituality,  devotion,  and  humility 
are  her  heritage.  Her  paternal  grand- 
father was  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, fourth  President  of  the  Church. 
The  memory  of  his  humility  and 
devotion  has  been  for  Helen  a  guid- 
ing light  through  the  years.  She  is 
a  daughter  of  the  late  Helen  May 
Winters  and  Abraham  O.  Wood- 
ruff, a  member  of  the  Council  of 
Page  152 
HELEN  WOODRUFF  ANDERSON 
the  Twelve.  The  early  death  of 
her  parents  left  their  four  young 
children  parentless. 
Fortunately,  the  homes  into 
which  they  were  welcomed  were 
kindly  and  understanding.  After  the 
death  of  their  paternal  grandmother, 
they  made  their  home  with  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  and  Augusta 
Winters  Grant,  a  sister  of  their 
mother.  Here  Helen  matured  in 
an  atmosphere  of  refinement  and 
spiritual  integrity.  She  always  speaks 
lovingly  and  appreciatively  of  the 
influence  of  this  home  in  shaping 
her  ideals  and  attitudes  toward  life. 
She  recalls  such  counsel  from  Aunt 
Augusta   which    she    feels    has   in-

HELEN  WOODRUFF  ANDERSON 
153 
fluenced  her  attitude  and  action: 
''Always  do  a  little  more  than  is 
expected  of  you;  learn  to  enjoy  the
