[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Velma | Author: Spafford]
Velma iL. Simonsen Retires From General Presidency President Belle S. Spafford HE General Presidency of Relief Society announces that on January 2, 197, in response to her request, Sister Velma N. Simonsen was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society and as a member of the general board. The announcement of her release will bring a sense of loss to Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. At the same time, there will be feelings of gratitude for the happy associations they have had with her and for the able leadership she has given them. Sister Simonsen was named a member of the general board in May 1945. In this calling, her leadership ability so asserted itself that when Sister Gertrude R. Garff was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency, October 2, 1947, Sister Simonsen was called to fill this important position. During the time that she has held this office, she has given faithful, devoted, and capable service. In addition to her general duties as counselor, she has had charge of the work meeting program, and also the annual stake Relief Society conventions. She has had continuous supervision of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and for several years she supervised the Temple Clothing Department. As a member of the General Presidency, she has continuously served as an advisory member of the General Church Welfare Committee and, in addition, has been a member of the Deseret Industries Committee. Page 158 To all of these assignments she has brought enthusiasm, coupled with good judgment, ability, and a willingness to serve. Sister Simonsen has a strong faith in God and an abiding testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her warm, friendly personality, together with her genuine love for the sisters of the Church have drawn them to her in love and admiration. She has been a loyal and valued counselor and her contribution to the work of Relief Society has been a significant one that will stand a credit to her always. Her associates of the general board love and esteem her as an able leader with whom they have enjoyed a close, personal relationship. It is with regret that they part with her as one of their number, wishing for her always the choice blessings of our Heavenly Father. Wlargaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Sreasurer Leone O. Jacobs _ Former Member, General Board of Relief Society ITH deep appreciation for her devoted service to the Relief Society, the general board reluctantly accepted the resignation of Sister