[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Afton | Author: Elliott]
Afton WV Hunt Appointed to General (Board Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society FTON Watson Hunt, who was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, was born in. Parowan, Utah, to Emily Crane and Lorenzo Dow Watson. Brother Watson was a lawyer. He died seven months before Afton was born. Her mother kept her family of seven children together and reared them successfully while serving as librarian for twenty-two years at the Carnegie Library in Cedar City. It was there that Afton spent her youth and received most of her education. After graduating from the College of Southern Utah in Cedar City, Afton went to Berkeley, California, for special training to equip herself to teach the physically handicapped. She taught for three years in the California State School for the Deaf and Blind. While in the Bay area, she met Mitchell W. Hunt whom she married. 'To the young couple were born a daughter, Florian, and a son, Mitchell, Jr. Afton today has five lovely grandchildren. Later the Hunts moved to Idaho where Brother Hunt became first counselor in the Twin Falls Stake presidency and Afton served as president of the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society. The Hunts filled an Hawaiian mission, followed by a few months in the California Mission. Upon their release they retired to Laguna Beach where Brother Hunt became branch president and Sister Hunt was active in the auxiliaries. 'They won the love of many friends in Southern California, AFTON W. HUNT all of whom were deeply saddened when President Hunt passed away suddenly of a heart attack in 1951. In 1954 Afton toured Europe and Britain where she took advantage of educational, cultural, and historical opportunities and also visited in many of the missions. Returning to America, she established a home in Salt Lake City, Utah. At the time of her appointment to the general board of Relief Society, she was first counselor in the University Ward Relief Society in the University Stake. Sister Hunt has served most of her lifetime as a teacher in all the auxiliaries of the Church, with thirty years of service in ward and stake Relief Societies. Her training, experience, service and firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ amply prepare her for the position as a member of the general board of Relief Society.