[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Mary | Author: Crawford]
Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine as MARY VOGEL CAMERON ARY Vogel Cameron, appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, comes to her new calling well prepared by heritage, training, and attributes of personality. She was born in Provo, Utah, to George and Martha Roberts Vogel, graduated from Ogden High School, and attended the University: of Utah and the University of California. As a teacher in the schools of Weber County and Jordan District, her radiant personality and her many talents were further developed. The rich promises of her gospel heritage found expresson early in Mary's life of devoted service. She has held executive and teaching positions in all the auxiliaries of the Church officered by women, and for several years was a member of her stake Primary board and later a Page 156 counselor in the presidency. For nineteen years she served as a missionary guide on 'Temple Square, where she deepened and strengthened her testimony of the gospel, as well as explaining the doctrines of the Church to many who have since become members. Her Relief Society work has included teaching the theology lessons in her ward, and a long period of service on the stake Relief Society board. Mary is an ideal mother and homemaker. A spiritual atmosphere, loving devotion, beauty, and order permeate her home. She was married to Donald Cameron in the Salt Lake 'Temple, and they are the parents of three daughters: Anna (Mrs. Dale S. Worden), Louise (Mrs. Robert K. Anderson), and Constance, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Eight grandchildren have brought much joy to Sister Cameron. The gospel has always been a guiding light to Mary; she loves to study the scriptures, believes in the power of prayer, and has a deep and abiding testimony. She is endowed with wisdom, understanding, discernment, and the priceless ability of instilling faith and devotion in others. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker and writes with integrity and artistry. Now, in wider fields of service, her intellectual and spiritual blessings will be extended to all the sisters of Relief Society, whose lives will be enriched by association with Mary Cameron.