[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: 154 Mary Vogel Cameron Appointed to General Board Vesta P. Crawford]
sen and  others  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities; her  training,  at  Brigham 
Young  University;  and  her  service 
as  a  member  of  the  M.I.A.  General 
Board  from  1953-57  ^^  ^^^  ^^^ 
Hive  and  Special  Interest  Commit- 
tees. 
Sister  Parker  has  a  strong  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel.  She  is  hard- 
working, thorough,  sincere,  coa- 
scientious,  and  efficient.  She  is 
pleasant  and  helpful  and  loves  to 
work  with  people.  She  has  accept- 
ed this  new  assignment  with  true 
humility  and  dependence  upon  the 
Lord.  Those  who  know  her  and 
have  worked  with  her  are  confident 
of  her  success  in  this  great  new 
calling. 
cJhe  QJamilyi    LLnit 
^^'HTHERE  is  no  substitute  for  a  righteous  home.  That  may  not  be  so 
considered  in  the  world,  but  it  is  and  ought  to  be  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  family  is  the  unit  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  That  we  believe,  and  if  we  are  fortunate  enough,  through  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  go  back  and  re-enter  the 
celestial  kingdom  to  dwell  with  him,  we  will  find  that  we  are  his  sons 
and  his  daughters,  that  he  is  in  very  deed  our  Father..  As  Paul  has  stated 
it,  we  are  his  offspring,  and  through  obedience  to-  every  principle  of 
eternal  truth  we  will  go  back  to  be  his  sons  and  his  daughters.. 
'Taul  has  said  and  prayed,  speaking  of  the  mission,  of  Christ  and  his 
obedience  to  him: 
t 
For  this  cause  I  bow  my  knees  unto  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Of 
whom  the  whole  family  in- heaven  and  earth  is  named  (Eph.  3:14-15). 
''If  we  get  back  into  that  great  kingdom  aftef  the  earth  is  redeemed, 
we  will  find  ourselves  members  of.  the  great  family  of  God,  and  he  will  be 
our  Father. 
''He  said,  you  know,  to  John: 
He  that  overcometh   shall  inherit  all   things;  and  I   will  be   his   God,   and  he 
shall  be  my  son  (Rev.  21:7}. 
— President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Conferenc©  Address,  October  3,  1948,  page  152

MARY  VOGEL   CAMERON