[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Embellishment | Author: Bees]
Embellishment Clarissa A. Beesley ROM our desks in the Salt Lake Temple annex, we watched the beautiful Relief Society building rise on the landscape. First, the huge excavation was cut deep into the ground; then the solid, massive foundations were laid, and the thick, enduring walls were raised with their insets of doors and windows; finally, the protecting roof was completed, and we said, "It is finished." But, even as we spoke, we knew it was not so; we knew that both on the outside and within the walls, there must be added manifold details of embellishment before this imposing building would be complete. And I thought, how like this is the building of a life and particularly, a Latter-day Saint life! Often, when it has been my privilege to lead a group of mature adults in a gospel study, I have said within myself, why do I attempt to discuss with these good people the things which they already know so well? They are highly intelligent; they have been trained in the Church and in its teachings through all their days; they have laid strong foundations of faith and knowledge in their childhood; in their youth and early maturity they have built the walls, girded with strength and endurance. What is left to be done? The building across the street gave the answer: 'There is still the embellishment, the beautifying to be done. As I pondered upon this, a wide vista of possible accomplishments in life's ripened years opened up before Page 190 me. I could have given much thought as to how the physical body, notwithstanding the ravages of time, might be so cared for that it would continue lovely in personal cleanliness and daintiness and sweetness of spirit, and how the mind might not be allowed to become stagnant, but be stimulated ever to be alert and seeking new treasures of knowledge and wisdom. I could wish that this might be the way with each one of us and that age might be robbed of its tragedy and be crowned with beauty, vitality, and joy. Especially I reverted to my own troubled question concerning the pursuit of gospel study and asked myself, what are some of the things to be done now in the embellishment of our spiritual lives' building, in these later years? And the answer came: First, we must be sure that the knowledge of divine principles gained through the years is without blemish. Did we grow to maturity with a correct understanding of these doctrines? In our childhood did we learn this gospel correctly, or did we receive impressions not quite accurate which we have carried with us? How many such impressions did we receive? Now is the time to give a thorough checkup to our store of information, to strengthen the buttresses of truth, and to remove any weak supports. Next, have we added to our original store of knowledge as the years have come and gone and the walls of our structure have risen, or have we been content with a EMBELLISHMENT meager supply of religious facts and failed to make replenishment from time to time? Furthermore, if our knowledge is found to be considerable, what is its source—our own research, or the findings of others? Often we may have envied the spiritual experts among us and wished we could know vital answers as did they. But have we taken the time to dig deep into the scriptures to find those answers for ourselves? How readily can we turn to desired reference passages? How well, now, today, can we give evidence of that which we speak? Then, what about the spirit, the soul of our building? Has our interior decoration become beautiful and complete by the application of knowledge gained in adorning and ennobling our character? Are there still some unadorned spots? What of the hidden envyings and grudges held long years against a neighbor, friend, or leader? What of the discontent or bitterness against our lot in life and the seeming misfortunes we have borne? What of the doubts, questionings against the acts of providence? What even of the wrongs we may have committed? 191 Or of the service or kindly deed we may have neglected? Yes, the building of our lives is not yet completed. 'There is still much embellishment to be done. We have a precious opportunity now to correct the mistakes of learning, of judgment, and of viewpoint; to add much new, beautiful truth to our store; to arrange our facts of knowledge into an orderly whole, and to become so familiar with those facts that they are made a part of us; to learn afresh what it means to repent of sin and to forgive trespasses against us; to become gentle and tender where we have been hard and unrelenting; in fine, to polish our souls until, indeed, they approach perfection and shine in exquisite beauty before that last inspection when we can say that our building is finished, ready for its final dedication. These years may not be the golden period of our experience, for that was the period of strength and virility, of great activity and achievement, our youth. But these are the silver years—mellow, chaste, sweet— the time of the embellishment to the full of the structure of our lives.