[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Nielsen]
EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 


 Reliof Society Legacy for Young Women HAT does Relief Society offer to me as a young woman?" This is a question which may be in the minds of many young women who are beginning to make a home. Here are a few of the opportunities which may be mentioned that a young woman has as a legacy of Relief Society. In this modern mechanized world, opportunity for expression may be lacking because so many of us are watchers and listeners. In Relief Society, a young woman has an opportunity of voicing her views on subjects which are interesting and worthwhile—theology, literary masterpieces, authors, family relationships, and other subjects. She has the chance for forming opinions through study and discussion with other women—some who are her own age and others who are older. The knowledge and opinions of the mother are an important part of the foundation on which children learn to think and learn why they think the way they do. It behooves young Latter-day Saint women, then, to learn as much as possible not only of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but also of all the fine and domestic arts and handicrafts, in order that they may share this knowledge with their families. Much of this knowledge can be gained through activity and study in Relief Society. Page 174 A young woman may have the opportunity of developing leadership abilities if she becomes proficient and is called to executive or teaching positions. In these capacities she will find that she needs, among many virtues, those of poise, kindness, and humility. She who inculcates these qualities in her life will have a great influence upon the other members and upon her children as well. The Relief Society Magazine is another avenue of expression which the young woman is given in her legacy of Relief Society. She may have a flair for poetry or short stories; or she may like to write the factual or the travel-type article. One of the main purposes of the Magazine is to stimulate and increase interest in the literary talents of women. A young woman also finds the opportunity to serve in many different ways. She may be able to help in the accomplishment of a welfare project or she may realize the joy which comes from compassionate service she has given to a sister. From her associations with older women of the society, she gains wisdom and insight in life's situations, and a feeling of oneness with her sisters, an understanding that life itself is unchanging despite exterior conditions. EDITORIAL Young women who find themselves asking the question: "Why should I be interested in Relief Society?" may well consider these values. If the legacy of Relief Society to the young women of the Church included nothing more than an opportunity for self-expres- 175 sion and service, it would be a priceless gift which is not found in any club or other activity.