[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Poem | Title: Preface | Author: Roberts]
150  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1957 
TjyiTH  reverent  thought  we  turn  the   divinity  of  man,  and  he  was 
to    the    second    chapter    of  impressed  with  the  great  characters 
St.  Luke  in  the  New  Testament  and  of  history  who  seemed  to  speak  at 
read  about  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ,  times  the  words  of  God  and  to  en- 
our  Savior.     It  is  another  exquisite  act  God's  holy  purposes.  This  was 
bit  of  history.  the  cause  of  his  unique  greatness. 
Joseph    and    Mary    hved    in    the  When  he  read  about  the  visit  of 
little  town  of  Nazareth.     It  was  a  the  angel  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
strange    circumstance    that    caused  directing  him   in   the  discovery  of 
them  to  go  to  Bethlehem  at  the  the  gold  plates,  he  saw  something 
time  that  Mary  was  to  become  a  of   the   eternal  and   divine   in   the 
mother.    According  to  the  edict  of  story,  and  he  often  quoted  Michael 
the  Emperor  Augustus  Caesar,  all  Angelo:      ''Beauty   cannot  be   sep- 
people  of  Palestine  were  to  go  to  arated  from  eternity."  God  became 
the  place  to  which  by  descent  they  his  immutable  help.    As  one  looks 
belonged,  to  be  enrolled  in  a  gen-  at  the  angel,  one  is  impressed  with 
eral  census.  Joseph  and  Mary  chose  the    thought   that   it   is   a    perfect 
the  city  of  their  fathers  as  the  place  creation,   that  a  truth  was   in  the 
where  they  should  register.  The  city  mind  of  the  sculptor.     It  was  his 
was  full  of  people.    Only  one  place  ardent  faith  and  warmth  of  enthus- 
was  left  to  rest.    ''And  she  brought  iasm  that  made  him  see  something 
forth  her  firstborn  son,  and  wrapped  of  the  divine  in  the  angel  Moroni's 
him  in  swaddling  clothes,  and  laid  coming  to  the  earth, 
him  in  a  manger;  because  there  was 
no    room    for    them    in    the    inn."  ^^T  now  turn  the  key  for  women," 
The  angels  were  round  him  and  his  said  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
birth.  They  worshiped  the  Newborn,  on  the  seventeenth  day  of  March, 
and  said  with  one  accord:   "Glory  1842,  when  he  organized  the  Relief 
to   God   in   the  highest,   on   earth  Society  of  the  Church  in  Nauvoo, 
peace,  good  will  toward  men."  The  and  sent  it  forth  on  its  mission  of 
stories   of  the   Magi   and   the   star  love.     It  was  the   beginning   of  a 
of   Bethlehem,   of   the  angels   and  better  age,  and  a  more  appreciative 
the  shepherds,  as  given  in  the  simple  understanding  of  the  divine  mission 
narrative  of   St.  Matthew   and   St.  of  woman  in  the  world.     She  was 
Luke,  go  to  make  the  story  of  the  to  take  her  place  in  the  work  of 
birth  of  the  Savior  the  most  beauti-  bestowing   upon    mankind   the   in- 
ful  idyl  of  all  literature.  creasing   consciousness   of   the   im- 
Coming  to   our  own  history,   it  mortality  of  spiritual  values.  Wom- 
was   the   mother   of   Cyrus   Dallin  an  was  to  take  her  place  by  the  side 
who  inspired  her  son  to  make  the  of  man  to  play  her  part  in  the  serv- 
angel  on  the  center  tower  of  the  ice  and  calling  of  God.  In  the  early 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  She  told  him  the  days  of  America,  woman  was  the 
story  of  the  coming  from  heaven  helpmate  of  man  in  the  hard  labor 
of    the    angel    Moroni    to    Joseph  of  those  times,  but  in  a  different 
Smith,  and  it  gave  Dallin  the  inspira-  manner  from  that  of  today.  Wives 
tion  for  creating  the  angel  Moroni,  and  daughters  made  clothing  in  the 
It  was  his  nature  to  wonder  about  homes,  helped  to  wield  the  ax,  and

WOMEN  ARE  WORSHIPERS  OF  GOD 
151 
carried  rifles  to  protect  the  village 
and  home.  When  the  husband  was 
absent  in  the  fields,  the  wife  stood 
on  guard  in  the  cabin,  always  with 
eyes  alert  for  prowling  Indians.  The 
frontier  of  America  bred  valiant 
women,  who  were  likewise  heroines 
of  the  spirit  in  which  they  were  no 
less  intrepid. 
Today,  woman  has  been  lifted  out 
of  much  of  her  drudgery  of  a  hun- 
dred years  ago,  and  the  Latter-day 
Saint  people  have  done  a  far-reach- 
ing work  in  establishing  the  proper 
attitude  of  society  toward  the 
"mothers  of  men."  From  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Church  in  1830,  women 
have  been  given  equal  rights  with 
their  husbands  in  the  home  and 
social  group.  In  the  march  of  the 
saints  to  the  West,  women  and 
children  suffered,  and  the  mortality 
among  them  was  large,  but  hus- 
bands and  sons  had  a  sacred  trust 
to  protect  them  and  to  ameliorate 
their  sufferings. 
The  pioneer  women  of  the  Ameri- 
can frontier  were  often  the  leaders 
in  thought  and  promoters  of  educa- 
tional institutions.  A  woman 
opened  the  first  school  in  the  West 
for  the  education  of  Indian  children. 
Mary  Jane  Dilworth  taught  the  first 
school  in  Utah,  and  Camilla  Cobb 
opened  the  first  kindergarten,  which 
was  among  the  first  kindergartens  in 
America.  Both  were  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  Relief  Society  of  their 
respective  wards.  Hundreds  of  such 
women.  Relief  Society  sisters,  have 
given  their  lives  to  the  uplift  of  hu- 
manity. They  have  looked  after 
the  poor,  comforted  the  sick  and 
unfortunate,  and  have  ministered 
comfort  when  death  has  taken  loved 
ones.  'Tike  ministering  angels, 
they  go  today  into  homes  and  com- 
fort the  sorrowful,  relieve  the  dis- 
tressed, feed  the  hungry,  clothe  the 
naked,  wait  upon  the  sick,  and 
scatter  glad  news  and  cheer  along 
the  road  of  life." 
The  work  of  the  members  of  the 
great  organization  for  women  found- 
ed over  one  hundred  years  ago, 
goes  on  from  day  to  day.  Theirs 
is  a  happiness  deep  and  lasting. 
Theirs  is  an  inherited  ideal  unique 
in  the  history  of  America.  They 
radiate  sunshine  and  joy  when  the 
clouds  descend.  Each  one  in  her 
sphere  has  a  dream  of  fine  spiritual 
value  as  expressed  by  Emily  Dickin- 
son: 
If  I  can  stop  one  heart  from  breaking, 
I  shall  not  live  in  vain; 
If  I  can  ease  one  life  the  aching, 
Or  cool  one  pain, 
Or  help  one  fainting  robin 
Unto  his  nest  again, 
I  shall  not  live  in  vain. 
[Preface  to  a   C^nlendar 
Lad  W.  Hill 
However  swiftly  days  take  wing  and  go — 
Like  birds,  like  soaring  wind  along  the  sky — 
How  singingly  the  swiftest  hours  fly! 
Oh,  lift  an  inner  listening,  and  know 
The  song  of  time  spun  lark-voiced,  and  as  high- 
A  moment's  brief  remembrance  rushing  by, 
Its  echo  feather-fallen  onto  snow.  .  .  .

dielen    viyoodruff  J/Lnderson  Kyippolnted  Second 
(counselor  m   (general  IPresidencii  of  [Reuef  Society 
Alberta  H.  Christensen 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
f\^  January  2,  1957,  Helen  Wood- 
ruff Anderson  was  appointed  to 
the  office  of  Second  Counselor  in 
the  General  Presidency  of  Relief 
Society.  Years  of  devoted  Church 
service,  academic  training,  and 
natural  endowment  qualify  Sister 
Anderson  for  this  important  calling. 
Helen  Anderson,  a  gentle-voiced 
and  gracious  woman,  evidenced, 
even  in  youth,  personality  traits 
which  qualify  her  to  fulfill  her  pres- 
ent assignment  with  distinction  and 
honor.  Humility,  a  subtle  sense  of 
humor,  and  a  marked  consideration 
for  others  have  endeared  her  to 
those  with  whom  she  associates  inti- 
mately and  to  all  who  have  known 
her  capable  leadership.  Hers  is  a 
judicious,  quiet  strength,  with  an 
element  of  self-restraint  which  com- 
mands respect;  yet  she  is  friendly 
and  sociable,  with  a  genuine  inter- 
est in  others.  Her  love  for  family 
and  friends  is  apparent  from  the 
unselfish  service  she  renders  them. 
In  tracing  the  factors  which  have 
influenced  her  life,  we  recall  that 
spirituality,  devotion,  and  humility 
are  her  heritage.  Her  paternal  grand- 
father was  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, fourth  President  of  the  Church. 
The  memory  of  his  humility  and 
devotion  has  been  for  Helen  a  guid- 
ing light  through  the  years.  She  is 
a  daughter  of  the  late  Helen  May 
Winters  and  Abraham  O.  Wood- 
ruff, a  member  of  the  Council  of 
Page  152 
HELEN  WOODRUFF  ANDERSON 
the  Twelve.  The  early  death  of 
her  parents  left  their  four  young 
children  parentless. 
Fortunately,  the  homes  into 
which  they  were  welcomed  were 
kindly  and  understanding.  After  the 
death  of  their  paternal  grandmother, 
they  made  their  home  with  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  and  Augusta 
Winters  Grant,  a  sister  of  their 
mother.  Here  Helen  matured  in 
an  atmosphere  of  refinement  and 
spiritual  integrity.  She  always  speaks 
lovingly  and  appreciatively  of  the 
influence  of  this  home  in  shaping 
her  ideals  and  attitudes  toward  life. 
She  recalls  such  counsel  from  Aunt 
Augusta   which    she    feels    has   in-

HELEN  WOODRUFF  ANDERSON 
153 
fluenced  her  attitude  and  action: 
''Always  do  a  little  more  than  is 
expected  of  you;  learn  to  enjoy  the