[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: I Had Forgotten, Catherine E. Berry]
I  had  forgotten  time  could  bring 
An  end  to  every  lovely  thing  .  .  . 
The  fairyland  the  snowfall  made, 
The  weeping  willow's  lacy  shade; 
A  candle's  glow,  a  scarlet  tree, 
The  way  your  eyes  once  looked  at  me. 
And  wept  for  loveliness  gone  past. 
For  dreams  and  love  that  did  not  last. 
I  had  forgotten  time  can  heal 
The  wounded  heart,  can  place  its  seal 
Upon  the  past,  and  yearly  bring 
The  cycle  back  again  to  spring. 
Page  171

Sixtyi    LJears  ^/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  March  i,  and  March  15,  1897 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
NORTHERN  IDAHO:  That  part  of  Idaho  called  Cocur  d'Alene,  and  in  which 
is  my  home,  comprises  the  two  northernmost  counties,  Shoshone  and  Kootenai.  It  is 
a  nest  of  mountains  \\ith  beautiful  lakes  nestling  among  them  and  streams  of  water 
coursing  through  e\ery  gulch,  except  where  to^^•er  the  snow  clad  peaks  abo\e  the 
timber  line. 
A  trail  cut  through  the  banks  of  snow 
W^inds  up  and  o'er  the  mountain  chain 
To  where  the  pines  of  Idaho 
Stand  guard  upon  the  Coeur  d'Alene. 
— Helen  L.  Young 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  DAVIS  STAKE:  President  Susan  Grant 
presiding  .  .  .  made  opening  remarks,  said  ^^■e  did  not  come  together  to  advance  new 
ideas  but  \\t  ha\e  come  ^^'ith  a  desire  to  be  blessed.  ...  "I  ha\e  been  connected  with 
this  Church  for  a  long  time  and  it  is  my  testimony  that  God  hears  and  answers  the 
prayers  of  the  faithful  saints.  \Mien  we  are  in  deep  sorrow  we  can  go  to  Him  and 
He  will  hear  us.  Wt  ha\e  all  enlisted  in  the  ser\ice  of  God.  Our  names  are  all 
enrolled  in  the  Relief  Society,  it  is  the  duty  of  all  the  sisters  to  attend  their  meetings." 
— Phebe  C.  Sessions,  Secretary 
ROSES   FOR   PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF'S   NINETIETH    BIRTHDAY 
They  are  the  roses  Re\'erence  and  Regard 
That  know  no  change. 
But  bloom  forever,  though  the  storms  be  hard 
And  ways  grow  strange. 
They  are  the  roses  that  I  bring  to  you. 
Your  gaze  to  greet; 
To  scent  the  way  you  take  with  fragrance  true. 
And  make  life  sweet. 
— Miss  Rose  Wallace 
SILVER  WEDDING:  Elder  John  C.  Sharp,  Bishop  of  Vernon,  Tooele  Co., 
and  his  wife  celebrated  their  siher  \\'edding  by  entertaining  about  fifty  relati\es  and 
friends  at  the  Templeton  Hotel  in  this  city,  on  Friday  evening  March  12th.  Among 
the  guests  were  Apostle  H.J.  Grant  and  wife,  Mrs.  Catherine  K.  Palmer,  who  is  almost 
eighty  years  old  and  mother  of  Mrs.  Sharp,  Pres't  H.  Gowans  and  wife  of  Tooele 
Stake,  Brother  Samuel  Woollcy  and  wife  of  Grantsville,  Brother  Wright  and  wife  of 
Nephi,  Brother  Louis  Stransbury  and  wife  of  Vernon,  Brother  Thackeray  and  wife  of 
Croydon,  and  many  relati\es  of  this  city.  The  e\ening  was  pleasantly  spent  with 
music,  feasting  and  con\ersation. 
— E.  P.  F. 
Page  172

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
'T^HERE  are  sixteen  women  in  the 
Eighty-fifth  Congress  of  the 
United  States,  the  same  number  as 
in  the  eighty-fourth,  though  two  of 
them  are  new:  Representative  Flor- 
ence P.  Dwyer,  Repubhcan,  New 
Jersey,  and  Representative  Kathryn 
E.  Granahan,  Democrat,  Pennsylva- 
nia. Edith  Nourse  Rogers,  Republi- 
can, Massachusetts,  was  elected  to 
the  House  of  Representatives  for  her 
seventeenth  term,  and  Frances 
Payne  Bolton,  Republican,  Ohio, 
for  her  tenth.  Margaret  Chase 
Smith,  Republican,  Maine,  remains 
the  only  woman  Senator.  The  other 
representatives  are:  Republican: 
Katherine  Ind  and  Marguerite 
Church,  Illinois;  Democratic:  Ed- 
na Kelly,  New  York;  Gracie  Pfost, 
Idaho;  Leonor  K.  Sullivan,  Mis- 
souri; Edith  Green,  Oregon;  Eliza-
