ADDRESS ON THE HOLY LAND
(In the Tabernacle.)

	Elder Charles W. Penrose introduced
Madame Mountford as the speaker of the
afternoon. The lady in beginning, ex-
pressed her gratitude at being privileged to
address her brethren and sisters in Jesus
Christ, in this Zion of the Western Hemis-
phere. She said she would speak upon the
land of her nativity—Jerusalem—the Holy
Land, the land in which the ancient Phar-
isees traveled, promulgating the words of
the Father, as a preparatory work to the
building up of the kingdom of God.
	As a text Madame Mountford recited the
19th chapter of Luke beginning at the 11th
verse. The Bible, said the speaker, did
not speak in detail; it gave here a link and
there a link, and these links had to be
bound together in wisdom, in order that the
proper interpretation might be put upon
that which was therein written.
	After citing the passages referred to,
Madame Mountford reverted to the 23 chap-
ter of Luke beginning at the 22nd verse and
dwelt briefly on the passages there occur-
ing.
	Taking up a study of the land of Pales-
tine, the speaker paid a tribute to the Turk-
ish empire and the Mohammedans, who,
she said, had kept in tact the political con-
ditions of that land as they were in the
days of the Savior. Had the European
powers gained control of that section of
country it would have been a land of mills
and factories, rather than a quiet peaceful
valley such as it now was. God the Father,
said the speaker, had so preserved the Holy
Land, in order that His Zion might be
built, that the land of the ancient Apostles
might retain its purity and holiness as in
days of old.
	Madame Mountford referred to the condi-
tions existing in the Holy Land and com-
pared them with conditions in America.
The same crude means of transportation in
vogue in Palestine anciently were in evi-
dence when the speaker was a child, but
since then a change had taken place and
facilities in every direction had become
more modernized. The parable of the
talents was likened by the speaker unto the
trust and confidence reposed in servants by
the people of the Holy Land. To each man
or woman according to their respective abil
ities, there was meted out a certain trust,
and that was his portion to look after and
care for in his master’s household. So it
was with the Father, said the speaker. He
gave unto one a certain talent and unto an-
other a different one, and from each ex-
pected a true stewardship of the trusts re-
posed in them.
	Referring to the crucifixon of Christ be-
tween two thieves and the remark of one,
“Lord remember me when Thou comest
into Thy kingdom,” coupled with the an-
swer of Jesus thereto, the speaker cited the
confidence which the thief had in the Savior.
No wonder, said she, that the Savior an-
swered, “This day shalt thou be with me
in Paradise.” The condemned man had
faith in the mission of Jesus. He knew
whom He was, and therefore showed al-
legiance unto Him, in the remark which he
made and to which he received such a satis-
factory answer.

[Column 2]
	The methods of the Arabs in preserving
their talents was referred to, and the con-
gregation was urged to take advantage of
the talents given unto them, that the ex-
action which the Father would make of
them would be fully in evidence in return
for the mercies bestowed.
	Madame Mountford regretted the tenden-
cy of humankind to forget the parables of
the Savior; to lay them aside and apply no
special significance to them. She spoke of
the great evil attending the seeking after
worldly wealth, and paid a tribute to the
Mormon people in founding a common-
wealth, such as they had built up in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. Such a
feature was laudable, and the building of
houses of worship and beautiful temples
showed that the people were earnest in the
allegiance to their God.
	Concluding, the speaker bade the people
of Utah and Salt Lake City a fond farewell.
She was enroute to her far eastern home in
Jerusalem and in her departure from this
section, she felt to thank the Latter-day
Saints for their many kindnesses and as-
sured them that they would never be for-
gotten. She said she knew President
Woodruff to be a man of God, full of humili-
ty and meekness, and felt that the people
could do no better than revere and honor
him.
	The choir sang the anthem “Hallelujah.”
Benediction was pronounced by Elder C
W. Penrose.


