EMMA BROWN.

To The Woman's Exponent:
	As one of our most esteemed and beloved
sisters, Emma Brown, passed to the great
beyond on the 8th of last month, Dec. 1897,
it was thought a few lines concerning her
life would be acceptable to you, and trust
you will allow this space in your valuable
little paper so her many friends may read it.
She has taken your paper for many years
and has always been one of its best friends.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
	Emma Brown, daughter of Lorena and
Ethan Barrows was born in Nauvoo, Ill.,
Oct. 1, 1843. She lived in that state until
1850 when she emigrated to Utah with the
Evans company, locating in Salt Lake City.
Here eight years later she was married to 
Pioneer George W. Brown, President Young
performing the ceremony. After living in
various places they at last settled in
Charleston in 1866, where she lived at the
time of her death.
	On Feb. 28, 1874, Sister Brown was ap-
pointed president of the Charleston ward
Relief Society which position she was very
competent to fill. After attending to her
duties for over five years, Sep. 3, 1879, she
was chosen and set apart to be president of
the Relief Society of Wasatch Stake. She
filled this position up to the time of her
death. In this capacity she has visited
every settlement in this Stake of Zion,
always being welcomed with joy. Her in-
fluence for good was penetrating and last-
ing. She has filled her earthly mission,
and we feel that our loss is heaven’s gain.
No one has yet been appointed to fill her
place. She has fought the good fight and
remained faithful to the end.
	For some years Sister Brown has been
troubled with heart failure, and later with
an internal cancer. These complaints were
the cause of her death. She suffered great-
ly and passed away pleading to die in peace.
No blot or stain could be found on her
character, and her body will rest in peace
until called forth on the morning of the
first resurrection. She leaves many rela-
tives and a host of friends to mourn her
loss. 
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				DACY BAKER.
Charleston, Jan. 4, 1898.


[Column 1]
MADAME VON FINKELSTEIN
