U. W. P. C.

	THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met at
Dr. R. B. Pratt’s parlors Dec. 30, 1897, the
president Dr. R. B. Pratt presiding. Mrs
Mary A. Freeze opened the evening’s pro-
gram with prayer. Roll call was responded
to with maxims of Confucius. Minutes of
the Thanksgiving meeting were read and
approved. Mrs E. B. Wells moved that
each member furnish a plate, cup and
saucer and spoon for club use; carried.
	Mrs. Ella Hyde gave a very creditable
paper on the subject of Confucius, followed
by remarks by the members thereupon.
	A paper by Mrs. M. A. Freeze on
Martin Luther met with high appreciation.
	An historic paper on Polynesia by Mrs.
Emma Jenson was replete with interest
and valuable instruction. It was supple-
mented with questions and remarks by the
members and followed by “Hawaii” by
Mrs- Mary J. Lambert.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave a very complete
paper on Mongolians, teeming with interest
and information. Mrs. Emma Jenson was
admitted as a member. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction by Mrs. Maria Francis.
	Exotic plants and oriental lights added
attraction to the evening. A dainty lunch
was served in harmony with the entertain-
ment while quaint and precious ornaments,
valuable table ware, mother of pearl, shells
and other articles representative of
Oriental customs were exhibited, giving in
all a most delightful evening.
			M. J. LAMBERT, Sec.
PROGRAM FOR JAN. 31, 1898.
	Sentiments from Goethe. Music by Prof.
McClellan. A brief sketch of Ger-
many by Ruth M. Fox. Ger-
man song by Camilla C. Cobb. Notable
men of Germany by Rebecca H. Doolan.
Recitation in German Mrs. Belle W. Bun-
nell. Notable women of Germany by Hat-
tie Harker. Music mandolin and guitar,
Mrs. Bunnell and Master Mark Bunnell.
The club will meet by invitation at Mrs.
Bunnell’s, 126 1st Street.


MISS SUSAN DE FOREST DAY has applied
for a sailing master’s license and will prob-
ably receive it. She owns the steam yacht
Scythian, on which she lives most of the
time, and she is said to be well up in tech-
nical acquirements, to say nothing of her
undoubted practical experience. A license
was refused the other day to Lady Bruden-
el Bruce in England, on the ground that a
woman could not legally be a “master,”
even of a yacht belonging to herself. The
difference of opinion in America is well
shown in the words of the late Secretary
Folger. The New York Tribune says:
“Secretary Folger’s directions to the local
inspectors on this point stand out in pleas-
ing contrast to the obstinate conservatism
which has just been exhibited in England.
His orders were, ‘Let the local inspectors,
putting behind them all thought of her sex,
without antagonism and without partiality
make diligent inquiry as to her character, 
carefully examine her and the proofs she
offers, and if they are satisfied that her
capacity, her experience, her habits of life
and character warrant a belief that she can
be safely entrusted with the duties and re-
sponsibilities of a master of a steam vessel,
let them grant her a license according to
Section 4,439.’ ”			Ex.


