A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE.

	MONDAY, September 20, by previous ar-
rangement with President Atwood while
attending the Relief Society conference of
the Summit Stake held at Peoa on the 7th
and 8th inst—we leave on the 7 o’clock
train for Ogden, take the Eastern for Echo
where we are met by President M. J. At-
wood and Counselor R. Pack of the Summit
Stake. Our reveries going up the lovely
valley of the Weber Water, as the native
would say, were of the most pleasant type.
We then proceed to Rock Springs, Wyom-
ing, where we arrive at 3:30 p. m. At the
depot we are cordially met by the president
of the Relief Society, the Bishop’s wife and
several others. Having been escorted to
the Bishop’s comfortable dwelling and
made to feel at home by his genial wife we
endeavor to rest ourselves. In the evening
quite a number gather there and we have
a sociable time.
	The next morning we visit the
sown and must admit our surprise at the
extent thereof and that so much thrift is
manifested on all sides. At 2 p. m. we

[Column 2]
hold a Relief Society meeting, and we must
here express our pleasure at the nice, little
meeting house that the Saints own in this
far off settlement and the good feeling
manifested among them when we take into
consideration that it is but a mining camp,
not gold mines, however, but that which
is more essential this kind of weather, coal
mines; and so few Saints compared to the
number of people. At 7 p. m. we hold
another meeting where the brethren as well
as the sisters meet together after their day’s
labor, and we have a most interesting time,
the brethren expressing themselves pleased
with the meeting and at the Saints having
come out in such goodly number.
	Wednesday 22, we take an affectionate
leave of the Saints and take the train for
Evanston where we are met by the Relief
Society president and others. We go to
the president’s home for dinner and then to
a meeting at 2 p. m.; and each time how
it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father for His goodness to
His people, for here again is another cosy
meeting house and some good sisters. But
our experience has been in traveling among
the people that, go where you will among
the Latter-day Saints, there you will find
intelligence. We have a profitable meet-
ing, then go to Almy, the scene of that
direful devastation of some three years ago.
The saddest reflections pass through my
mind on arriving there and going through
the town. We are taken to Bishop Boun’s
home by his whole-souled wife. It is a
comfortable home situated on the side of a
hill overlooking the whole place and has
the loveliest garden, the soil having all been
carted up, placed on the rock and banked
up and the water to sprinkle with forced up
from the valley below. In that garden the
loveliest of flowers grow, also the finest
vegetables, the Bishop taking pains to ex-
plain to us the different varieties and also
presenting each of us with a bouquet which
we appreciated very much. Many times
while enjoying the fragrance of those lovely
plants in the Autumn evening we felt im-
pressed to say surely “Where there’s a will
there’s a way,’’ when one sees what can be
accomplished if people will only try. Thrift
is visible on every side in that household.
	Thursday 23, we call on several sisters in
the morning, then at 2 p. m. we hold meet-
ing again in a good meeting house. We
have an interesting time then call on some
more dear sisters, then go back to Evanston
where we are very kindly waited on for
supper at the home of the president’s
daughter after which we go with Sister
Dawson to her cosy home. We calmly set-
tled ourselves to rest thinking we were
through for that day, not so, however, for
about 8 o’clock there came about fifty of the
good Saints of Evanston to surprise us, and
it was a surprise indeed. Well we had a
most enjoyable time and we all parted feel-
ing to bless each other.
	Friday 24 we view the town and indeed
it is quite a town, then we take the train for
Echo where we hold a meeting at 2 p. m.
The Saints here are but few in number
and very much scattered but they are try-
ing to do all the good they can. They
have a good Bishop and a good Relief Soci-
ety president. After meeting we go to
Henneferville in a rain storm, where we
hold a meeting at 5:30 and have quite a
good turn out considering the weather;
they also have a good meeting house. After
meeting the Bishop of Echo and his good

[Column 3]
wife take us back to their comfortable home
two miles west of Echo.
	Saturday 25, they take us in due time to
Echo where President Cluff’s carriage
meets us to take us to Coalville. At noon
we meet with the old folks in that very
beautiful Stake house of which the Saints
of Summit Stake are so justly proud, and
the Relief Society having done so much to-
wards it; the grounds are also very nice.
Well it was old folk’s day in very deed, a
happier looking gathering could scarcely be
found. President Cluff and his genial wife
with all her aids were on the qui vive to
see what could be done to make each one
happy and comfortable. The dinner tables
looked elegant. After the program was
over the exercises closed about 5 o’clock,
we spent a pleasant evening visiting with
friends. 
	Sunday 26, we leave Coalville about noon
Sisters Cluff and Eldredge and two good
brothers accompanying us. We go ten
miles to Upton, seven miles of continuous
dug ways. We then again marvel at the
perseverance of the people, but as usual
when you get to the valley it is quite a
nice, little place. We have a very profit-
able meeting at 2 o’clock, have a goodly
number present. After meeting on our
way back we visit Bishop Clark’s Fun Hall,
the most unique place of the kind we ever
remember seeing, he having employed an
artist to paint the walls in oil on which
every conceivable design is displayed, from
the native and his wickeup to the lovely
castle; from the minutest of everything to
the greatest. It really is amazing to see
such workmanship so far up in the moun-
tains, seemingly away from everything.
The people up there seem comfortable
and when we realize while traveling among
the community how few, comparatively
speaking, owned a home previous to the
Gospel reaching them, and how the Lord
has blessed this people it makes us feel to
praise His holy name. We arrive at Coal-
ville about dark, having enjoyed our trip
very much, the mountain scenery was very
fine. We are again entertained at
President Cluff’s hospitable home and also
at Brother Eldredge’s.
	Monday 27, we visit the sick and afflicted.
We call on one poor sister who has been
afflicted with rheumatism for two years,
we pray with them then comfort and bless
them and ask the Lord to bless them. We
also visit one young sister who is very sick;
how they do appreciate our call! Would
that more made it a point to call on the sick
and comfort and bless the afflicted, for then
is the time they need consolation and in
blessing we are blest. We then repair to
a Relief Society meeting in the Stake house
at 10 o’clock, after which we comfort anoth-
er afflicted one. In the afternoon we go to
Hoytsville to a meeting at 5 o’clock and
have a very good meeting. We return to
Coalville and by invitation attend the
Y. L. M. I. A., which we enjoy very much
as it is very interestingly conducted.
	Tuesday 28, we take leave of dear friends
which is always affecting, Sisters Atwood
and Pack having proven themselves very
genial companions. There were several
other settlements we were to visit but the
season being so far advanced and conference
so near it was deemed wisdom to postpone
it until a future time. We leave Coalville
at 8:20, reach Ogden at 4;30 and arrive home
at 8 p. m. all well.
