THE NEW YEAR 1898.

	WE hope and trust it is not too late for
the “Exponent” to send a New Year’s
Greeting to all its patrons and readers, and
to wish a prosperous as well as a happy
new year to all who may chance to see or
become interested in its welfare and well-
being. And most truly do we wish that
this year now fairly begun may be full of
joy and promise of good to Utah and to the
country of which Utah is a part.
	That prosperity may increase and health
and happiness abound and everything that
will tend to the best interests of the people
in these mountain vales, is most sincerely
to be hoped for. Surely the hand of the
Lord has been wisely manifest in the past
and the blessings that tend to build up a
great commonwealth have been vouchsafed
in rich abundance, the industry and dili-
gence of the laborer has been well rewarded
and there is no reason for any to complain,
comparatively speaking.
	This people did not come into these val-
leys with the expectation of great wealth,
on the contrary they came from religious
motives, and that they might have a safe
abiding place for themselves and those who
desired to gather with them to build up
Zion, and endeavor to keep the command-
ments of God. And year after year their
numbers and possessions have increased;
they have extended their borders and built
up towns and cities, temples and institu-
tions of learning, and made the waste
places beautiful, and the land a delight to
all, and the Lord has been their shield and
guide and protector, and in worshiping
Him has been their safety.
	Men and women alike are free and equal
under the laws of the new state, and for
this blessing we should thank our Father
in heaven, that there is no oppression, and
that we enjoy privileges for which others
have been striving in older states for half a
century in vain.
	Throughout Utah at the present time
there is no real poverty, the cry of the
poor is not heard, wherever there are any
who are needy from any cause whatever,
there is also plenty of food and raiment if
their wants are made known. The system
of looking after the poor established by the
leaders of this people according to the order
of the Church is such as recommends itself
to all who have examined into its practical
methods and application, for it reaches all
cases.
	We have great reason to rejoice that we
have not suffered from famine or pestilence

[Column 2]
or scourges of various kinds as many states
have and for these and many other things
we should be exceedingly grateful. But in
many things as a people there is great room
for improvement nevertheless, and for this
we should strive that we may grow better
as well as wiser, for while knowledge of
various kinds is on the increase let us not
forget the wise old saying “Knowledge
puffeth up but wisdom edifieth.” There
may be great danger unless special care is
taken that the learning of the world with-
out humility and faith in God will lead
astray, and men will trust to science and to
the skill and ingenuity of their fellow-men
instead of acknowledging God who is the
great Author of all and by whose power
and divine inspiration all things are revealed
whether they be new or old. He alone
holds the keys of life and death and the
Scriptures say He is angry with none save
those who will not acknowledge Him in all
things.
	Therefore it behooves us all to serve Him
and keep His laws and commandments, that
we may be partakers of the promises He has
given to the faithful; and with all diligence
labor to establish righteousness and peace,
and the salvation of the living and of the
dead. The millenium cannot come until
there is a people ready for it, and that we
may be instrumental in bringing about the
time when peace shall reign instead of war
and wickedness and bloodshed, all who love
purity and holiness should not only pray
but work most earnestly.


